{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__beckett___the_world_breath.pdf","mytitle":"The World Breath","mylang":"de"}
THE WORLD BREATH
BY
L. C. BECKETT
~(. l~d.Jtr
13L.;1_'--1 D .
. () LJ3S
\ q3S
~
I' vi
........ '
LONDON : RIDER & CO.
PATERNOSTER HOUSE, E.C.
Made and Printed in Great Britain at
The MayjlofiJer Press, Plymout". William Brenden & Son, Ltd.
1935
TO
SIR ARTHUR EDDINGTON
IN GRATITUDE FOR
"THE NATURE OF THE PHYSICAL WORLD"
" FROM the unmanifested all the manifested stream forth
at the coming of day ; at the coming of night they dissolve,
even in THAT called the unmanifested.''
Bhagavad Gita, VIII, 18
G. PUGNANI-KREISLER.
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
PART I
PERIODICITY ON EARTH
CHAPTltR
J. WHAT IS PERIODICITY ?
II. WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD
III. WAVES AND LIFE
IV. WAVES AND DEATH
V. WAVES AND CIVILISATION •
PART II
EXHALATION AND INHALATION
I. FROM NEBULlE TO ASHES •
II. LIFE THE PHCENIX
III. AT THE CROSS-ROADS
IV. FROM WORLD AsH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS
V. WHERE LIES REALITY?
VI. BEYOND SPACE-TIME •
VII. HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE
PART III
THE WAVE BEYOND MANKIND
I. FREE MIND
II. THE BuDDHA
III. JEsus, SoN oF MAN .
IV. NE PLus ULTRA
EPILOGUE •
9
PAGE
13
27
33
48
57
66
8s
II2
200
219
230
239
268
282
N.P.W.
St. &At.
Exp. Un.
Un. ar. us.
At. & Qu.
Mys. Un.
Ast. & Cos.
Sc. of L.
Or. & Ev.
-----A.B.C.
T.G.H.
W.S.G.
--M.M.S.
ABBREVIATIONS
Nature of the Physical World. By Sir Arthur Eddington.
Stars and Atoms. By Sir Arthur Eddington.
The Expanding Universe. By Sir Arthur Eddington.
.Universe Around Us. By Sir James Jeans.
Atomicity and Quanta. By Sir James Jeans.
Mysterious Universe. By Sir James Jeans.
Astronomy and Cosmogony~ By Sir James Jeans.
The Science of Life. By H. G. Wells, Julian Huxley and
G. P. Wells.
Origin and Evolution of Life. By Henry Fairfield
Osborn.
A.B.C. of Atoms. By Lord Russell.
Thrice Greatest Hermes. By G. R. S. Mead.
Where is Science Going? By Max Planck.
Modem Man in Search of a Soul. By C. G. J ung.
Exp. with T. An Experiment with Time. By J. W. Dunne.
J.P.S. Joumal of Philosophical Studies.
All the quotations from Plotinus are taken from Stephen McKenna's
translation in five volumes ; those from Ekkehard are from Hermann
Buettner's edition in two volumes, translated by the author.
N.B.-I have used the terms: Authentic Existence, Primal One,
God, One-All, the Divine, the Eternal, the Breather and others, indis-
criminately, to denote what we usually term God, hoping that this
would assist my reader in getting away from the usual personification,
inseparable from any habitual form of designation.
II
INTRODUCTION
I
N setting out to write this book which has long -been in my
mind, I do not imagine that I am going to say the last
word that could be said on the subject with which I shall
deal. I realise only too well that it is a matter far too vast
to be comprised within the limits of two covers. I may
as well also admit that I have made various attempts in the
last ten years to elucidate this question,-attempts which
have come to a sad end in the waste-paper basket!. But
all this time and effort have not been wasted ; each succeeding
year has proved to me that my ideas of the year before had
grown and developed so considerably, that what I had written
was only a partial and therefore inadequte aspect of the Truth
I was seeking. I speak advisedly when I say : inadequate.
I do not in any sense mean" incorrect." On the path to Truth,
so long as one can say: this idea is bigger than I thought, one
may confidently pursue it. And, as no step may be skipped on
these paths, I feel certain that I should never have attained
my present convictions except by this very long and circuitous
route. Not one inch of the ground I have covered could have
been neglected, not one stone omitted from the building. If
my present conviction does not go the way of others that have
preceded it, it is because I have found that, for the last few
years, every idea seemed to lead the more surely to a confirma-
tion of this one, there has been nothing that, so far, has been
able to shake it.
Nothing that I have heard or read on these subjects has any
Iilore attraction for me, there is a deep inner conviction of
knowledge which nothing can add to or upset.
Thus fortified, I think I may justly attempt to share this
faith of mine with others, and, although I cannot deny that
it is somewhat of an affrontery to add one more attempt to
solve the true nature of ourselves and the worlds around us,
to the many solutions that have been evolved since the begin-
ning of the world, yet it seems to me that every sincere seeker
~ter Truth who discovers an answer to this problem, that fits
In with everything that is known in his day, helps to carry
I3
I4 INTRODUCTION
understanding men one step nearer the goal. The search for
Truth is open to all, and must continue incessantly until
THE TRUTH be found, and any answer to the questions : how
and why, which embraces the whole untverse, science and phil-
osophy, life and religion, in one vast Whole, may, it seems to
me, bear some relation to ultimate Truth, and must therefore
not be withheld.
If we remember that even scientists, who make no pro-
nouncement regarding the results of their studies, unless it
can be mathematically proven, are still so far from a final
solution to the problems of physics, astronomy, etc;, that they
are continually faced with the necessity of altering the state-
:t;llents of yesterday, to bring them into line with the knowledge
of to-day, it is in no way SUJPrisingif, in relation to the far more
inscrutable subject of existence in general and life in particular,
explanations alter with every succeeding generation, more
especially so in our time, when all such questions are being ,
agitated in the market-place, and men are moving faster than
ever before in their mental activities, and theory follows theory
in attempts to solve age-old riddles. But if, undaunted, every
man contributes his share to an understanding of the Whole,
probably in the end there will come a new synthesis, that will
burst on mankind like the rising sun on a summer's day,
and the human race will then !?tart a new function altogether.
Before this can occur, however, it is clear that the two
main lines of human thought, the religious and the scientific,
both of which devote themselves to discovering a solution to
the problem of existence, will have to be brought into some
kind of relation to one another. It has become little short of
ridiculous to hear one denying the authenticity of the other,
when both are equally religious and scientific in their aims and
means! But things are moving, and lately there have been
voices raised from both camps, expressing the hope that some
day someone would arise who would undertake the task of
uniting both science and religion in one great synthesis, which .
would comprise everything in the realms of both, and make one
of all aspects of life. But in order to reach this end, it will be
necessary for both scientist and priest to abandon his water-
tight compartment, and allow something of the ideas of the
other to enter his domain. Scientists are verging towards
this end, we have already left the Victorian man of science,
who regarded all religious ideas as only fit for women and
children, many miles behind us. But even so, I think Sir
Art~ur Eddington is the first great scientist to have admitted
INTRODUCTION IS
that where science reaches its limits, faith might take up the
thread, hence the universal appeal of his work! Churchmen,
I regret to· say, have remained much more obdurate in their
isolation, and have only grudgingly admitted scientific facts
when there was no way of escaping them. I speak here of
Christians, and their attitude is all the more surprising in that
Jesus Himself employed many of our latter-day scientific
methods of dealing with problems that confronted Him, as
we are now discovering.
If we consider the matter more closely, there seems to be no
real reason why science and religion should not work together,
their ultimate aim being the same : the discovery of the primal
and fundamental Cause, the Deus ex machina of the universe.
The only difference between them lies in the fact that they each.
seek the goal by a different path. The scientific seeker refuses
to acknowledge any fact that cannot be proved by observation
or calculation, although admittedly the greatest scientific
minds, the explorers in science, pr~~ge their most i~pg_rtant
discoveries by an il!tJJ.itional appre!!_e~ion of some fact, which
they silJJsequently set themselves to prove mathematically or
experimentally in order to convey their knowledge to others.
Such intuitional knowledge has never been shown to be
entirely false, even when it was not the whole truth. \ A friend
of mine once asked Einstein if his theories wer~ the outcome
of long calculations, or, if he first had the idea and then set
himself to prove it? The reply was that the idea arose spon-
taneously,.and Marconi said the same thin.g to me. That such
ideas are in the nature of inspiration cannot be doubted; they
arise in some subconscious state within man, which has nothing
to do with reasoning, but which has given birth to all the
greatest art and all religion. And, if the scientist has enoughj
faith· in his idea to spend years of his life in proving the truthl
of it, it certainly becomes his religion.
The religiousseeker, on the other hand, listens to the prompt-
ings of the same voice within, but he differs from his scientific
brother in that he believes that the ideas which thus arise to
his mind are manifestations of the voice of God, and accepts
them without need of proof. The great religious leader knows
that anyone who follows the same path as he, ~ust eventually
and quite infallibly obtain the same results, which he knows to
be right, therefore he states his facts and never argues,-·
"He that is not with us is against us," that is all. All truth of
this nature is eventually approved by life itself, as it has been
in the case of Jesus Christ. Millions still believe that the
16 INTRODUCTION
idealwhich He gavetotheworldwouldraisemankindtosupreme
heights, although this cannot be proved by any mathematical
calculus, nor have those who most nearly succeeded in realising
it achieved worldly success, or been generally considered
fortunate from the world's point of view. Therefore, if that
ideal still persists, it must be of the same nature as the idea
to which the scientist pins his faith, only that, instead of one
man, it is a large part of mankind that has attempted to prove·
the truth of it through two thousand years.
Such dominant ideas ~re certainly inherent in the genius of
the human race, and undoubtedly they have, in one form or
another, worked from the first to raise the animal man to
homo sapiens, and they will certafuly further impel men forward
into whatever more evolved being shall follow the present
stage. We in the West call our leading idea: Jesus Christ,
but those who are not Christians, the high Lamas of Thibet,
the people of Japan, or the Buddhists of Ceylon, find the same
idea in the Buddha ; the Hindus find it in their ancient Rishis ;
and even the atheist among us, who lives up to his own ideals,
is still a follower of this common aim, be he aware of it or not,
driven thereto by something within that has nothing to do
with his reason or logic. One need but to compare the cave-
men to ourselves to realise that much has already been done ;
but mankind is still very far from the final goal !
We see, therefore, that some kind of faith always leads the
way in the life of mankind, and the lives of the mystics as well
as those of the scientists are spent in justifying their faith,
only the latter have not cared to admit it until recently!
But since I can take it on the authority of Sir Arthur Eddington
that: "Something unknown is doing we don't know what,"l
there can be no objection to my seeking that "something
unknown,, wherever my intuition may lead me. Perhaps
the inner self (or the subconscious mind, ·or soul, if my reader
prefers either of these terms) which is the undoubted source of
all beliefs that have so far led mankind on its way, may· give
some hint as to the nature of that after which all men are
seeking, since it seems itself to bepart of the mystery.
The great mystics of the past, Egyptian initiates, Indian
Rishis, Kabbalists, Gnostics, Neoplatonists, and Christian
mystics, have told us much, but men of the present day have
turned away from their teaching, feeling that their ideas would
not stand the required tests of modem logic, but what reason is
there for supposing that the intellect, which is the source of
t N.P.W., p. 291.
INTRODUCTION I7
logic, must constitute the final criterion of Truth ? Has it been
proved so infallible ? It seems to me that it is merely a function
of the grey brain matter, and certainly none of the great
treasures of the world have ever come out of it. !tis not the
inspirer, but the inspired-that mental activity which applies
Hself to co-ordinating the conditions of life for practical
purposes. It has certainly been the chief ruler in our modem
civilisation, but it has never swayed the world as have the acts
of genius. And the genius of every sort, were he a St. Francis
of Assisi,a Shakespeare or a Napoleon, never sat down to reckon
out the pros and cons of his activities from a logical point of
view, one and all were driven to act by some inner urge-
they could not have acted in any other way. Rationally
considered, according to ordinary criteria, they should be
regarded as insane; but the intuitive self of mankind, which
responds to the call of those whose lives have been the revela-
tion of an inner motive power, judges them according to its own
criterion,-not according to the intellect-and proclaims them
right. If then, in relation to the activities of life, the judgment
of the intellect is not to be accepted as infallible, why should it
be so in the realm of ideas ? /
If we take the ideas that solely apply to the material world,
and their object be utility, measured by profit and loss, then
certainly let the intellect, which itself belongs to the world of
material things, be the supreme tribunal. It is undoubtedly
useful in dissecting the material world, but we must never
forget that as the centuries go by, it, like its objects, alters and
develops, it denies in one century what it asserted in the last,
and finally goes limping along, hanging on to the tail of the
comet Geni~s, which pursues its way, unheeding intellectual
preconceptions. The ideas of genius do not arise in the world of
material utility-this world makes room for them or persecutes
them as the case may bes-but genius expresses itself unmoved
by the world's wishes or expectations, and at the back of all
that later intellects dissect, lies direct inspiration. Therefore
to the inspired genius alone should we look for the answer to
' the great question : why and wherefore ? for his understanding
soars out like pinnacles into something outside human life,
and reaches beyond the realm of reason or logic, into what more
resembles. Truth itself. That is the only thing that matters,
1
and the why and wherefore are an eternal spur to reach those
pinnacles. When the genius calls to us and says that : " there
are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our
philosophies," of which things he and his like seem to possess
B
I8 INTRODUCTION
some experience, mankind glimpsing their heights is spurred
on to attempt the ascent. Were the heights forever buried·in
clouds, existence in our valleys would be dreary and purposeless,
but religion, art and science send us messengers to open our
vision to vaster horizons,-to realisations of possibilities beyond
everyday experience. And in this they walk hand in hand ;
the great religious mystic says: "The Kingdom of Heaven
is within"; the great scientist says: cc We all know that there
are regions of the human spirit untrammelled by the world of
physics. In the mystic sense of the creation around us, in the
expression of art, in a yearning towards God, the soul grows
upward and finds the fulfilment of something implanted in its
nature. The sanction for this development is within us, a
striving born with our consciousness, or an Inner Light
proceeding from a greater Power than ours."1
We may as well admit, therefore, that there is no wall fixed
between science and religion in the realms of inspiration, and
further, even though, biologically and zoologically speaking,
the story of Adam and Eve cannot be accepted by the scientific
mind, and the religious mind refuse to admit any relation
between ape and man, yet the scientific genius who puts back
the hand of the Creator a few million years, and discovers its
craft in the waves of energy proceeding out of the original
spiral nebula, and the religious genius who sees Him creating
light in the beginning, are certainly brothers, for both start
from the same premise and obtain the same result. The time
factor which is of no consequence in our relativity era, is their
main point of divergence, but what is time? As against
eternity, the difference between the mere S·Io12 years since the
beginning of the sun as a luminous star,2 and seven days
is not worth worrying about. The main point is that the
premise: cc In the beginning God created" followed by the
question: a Did He?" is the common starting-point of all
seekers after truth, whether religious or scientific, in all the
ages, and we therefore need make no apology for accepting it
as our starting-point in a new attempt to solve the old
mystery!
Men have often denied the necessity of a creating hand, but
it has a habit of cropping up again in the most unexpected
places, and those who deny it to-day, do so at their peril, for
even the dryest mathematician, the most dogmatic scientist is
coming perilously near to being forced to admit that what he
has hitherto scoffed at as the illogical thought fathered by the
1 N.P.W., p. 327. . 2 N.P. W., p. 169.
INTRODUCTION I9
wish, is a limit that meets him at every turn, against which he
beats his wings in vain. Yet, such is the tenacity of man,
that even after centuries of failure he will not abandon the
attempt to circumvent the Creator, and ever re-commences the
attack from a different angle,-perhaps the very effort to justify
denial. will eventually bring the supreme confirmation.
In the meantime whence comes this eternal urge to quest,
inherent in all the greatest geniuses of art, science and religion?
I will not use the word "soul" in reply, for it has been too
much misused, and has come to mean something that a
scientifically minded person blushes to talk of. But as psych-
ologists frankly admit the idea of the subconscious mind
to-day, and re~ognise that within it lie powers as yet unanalys-
able and untapped, I think that, if anywhere, the source of
inspiration must lie here, and if I use this expression I shall
be free of any preconceptions either religious or scientific.t
Out of the subconscious mind, there come to the most enlight-
ened among men, visions which they, by their tongues or their
pens, their chisels or their notes, reflect ontothelimitedhorizons
of their more grossly constituted fellows ; theirs is a sense of
vaster spaces, greater powers, wider horizons, of immense
forces which toy. with universes, and this inner urge will
not allow them any rest until they set out to realise its sources.
And within the subconscious, from which such men obtain
their visions, there must also lie the Reality, which leaves its
record on the mind and makes it forever restless amidst the
illusory world of the senses. For that it is illusory, is another
of those inner convictions that do not admit of question, why
otherwise should men forever seek to discover what things
" really " are ? If they were sure that what they see around
them is ultimate reality, they would not be forever inventing
more and more perfect means of investigating and probing into
the various world forms that meet them at every step ; Einstein
would not have discovered his Laws of Relativity and Gravita-
tion, Bose would not be elucidating the real nature of plant
life, etc.; instinctively we know that we know nothing of
Realityandtherefore we cannot rest. But that whichrecognises
this fact must possess some knowledge of what is real, otherwise
there could be no criterion for what is not.
Therefore, apart from all dogmatism, all rationalism, we
1
N.B.-I would much prefer to use the Greek word 11
vovs" or the
Indian word 11
Chitta," but there are so many interpretations of these terms
according to their context, that it is better to use one familiar to all eve~
thoughinadequate. '
20 INTRODUCTION
must still seek to discover the kernel that lies hidden within
these forms of matter of which we form part; having caught
a glimpse of this, all else would vanish into thin air.
In seeking the ultimate Reality it is very difficult to keep the
balance between science and religion, for many of our premises
must be drawn from the former, many of our results will appear
to be a return to the latter : and each as it is constituted to-day
will cry out that I am overstepping the limits, either of the
deductions permissible from known facts or of what may be
ascribed to the nature of the Deity without blasphemy f
I must run these risks, however, for the one thing that is certain
beyond any manner of doubt is that the Source of all things
must be "a-scientific~~ and "a-religious.~~ It does not need
any mathematical calculus to prove itself, for it is itself the
finished Tesult as well as the first premise ; it does not need
faith for it is itself the fountain of all faith.
He who, seeing scientific terms, would approach this work
with the idea of judging its conclusions on purely scientific
grounds, should lay it down at once, for the idea it contains is
as immeasurable by these as is any religion. But he, on the
other hand, who would measure it by the religious doctrines
which he holds as an orthodox Christian, should equally for-
swear it, for the two will not combine. Even though I may have
a great deal to say about Jesus Christ, and with deep reverence
will it be said, it will certainly not meet with the approval of
an orthodox person.
That which arises between science and religion, and is of the
essence of both, might be called the'' Middle Way,'' but it is
no "ism~~ nor "ity/' it is not fossilised in any dogma or
church; he who is content with accepting the ideas and laws
taught him by others will never tread this way, each step of
which is learnt by the sweat of man's own individual endeavour.
He who takes that "Middle Way" must be ready to say to
scientist as to priest what Siddhartha said to the Buddha :
'' Brahmins must feel their hearts swell with joy when they
consider the world in the light of thy doctrine which forms
a perfect whole, without the least break, whichisclearas crystal,
which is neither at the mercy of chance nor of Gods....
But there is one thing which this doctrine so clear, so worthy
of respect, does not contain, and that is: the secret of what the
Sublime One Himself is alone to experience among the hundreds
of thousands of human beings. Therefore must I continue my
pilgrimage, not in search of another or a better doctrine, for I
know there is none ; but to free myself of all doctrines and all
INTRODUCTION 2!
roasters and alone attain my goal or die/,1-that is what I have
done, and this work is the story of my own experience. Out
of this experience there emerges a new synthesis of world forces,
a synthesis which covers all the new-found scientific facts, and
which anyone who is able to regard things from the same angle
will then be able to follow up for himself.
What I am about to say makes no claim to be the final word
on the subject, it is in no sense exhaustive; it is possibly a
new way of regarding the world, that is all, but it is rather a
difficult way to seize. One may sometimes remain months
without being able to see anything in this light at all, and
then again everything fits quite simply into this new world
scheme. It is like a diamond,s facets. For many years I wore
one, and saw merely a white glittering stone; one day, sitting
in the sun, and turning it about idly I was dazzled by a flash of
red flame coming out of its heart, but when I tried to get it
again it was not so easy, for I had no idea how it had occurred
in the first instance. I could get blue or green lights, but that
flame seemed to be the secret of the diamond. Likewise one,s
mind has to be very alert to catch even a fleeting glimpse into
the realities " within/, and I am therefore under no illusion
that it will be an easy task to express what I have perceived,
but I must try.
Let us then set out with the minimum of rules and regulations
at the back of our minds, either scientific or otherwise, and,
above all, as few prejudices as possible, just holding to the
few greatest among the Truths now discovered or handed down
through the centuries. These are not difficult to find, seeing
how few truths are unassailable after our millennia! quest after
Truth. We are still so completely mystified as to what lies
beyond the world of our common knowledge, just over the
next ridge of mountains, that if, in making an attempt to climb
our Everest from a different angle to those attempted hereto-
fore, we discover that it looks rather different from what we
had imagined, it need not surprise us. I am going to try and
look at this problem of Man and God from what might be
called a magic point of view, thereby not meaning the old idea
of magic connected with witchcraft and the like, but somethin@
~hich is so difficult to define that it is magic in very truth,-
If the significance attached to this word by the Oxford Diction-
ary, namely, an "inexplicable and remarkable influence
producing surprising results,', be the true one.
1 Hermann Hesse : SiddkaYtha.
22 INTRODUCTION
The scientists have given us some great laws: gravitation,
entropy, quantum and the like. They have measured, con-
trolled and observed, and drawn their conclusions, but suppos-
ing the wand of the magician were waved over all their facts,
and they were seen to belong to an order of things quite
different from what their authors had imagined, would not this
seem magic ? If all material facts were suddenly to be trans-
muted into a manifestation of entirely immaterial phenomena,
for which not mathematical calculations but something
unknown within ourselves stood sponsor, it might be held that
such an aspect of things projected out of that unknown must
be an image of itself. (We know that everything we see is
but a reflection of our minds, that is one of the laws of the
mental world: it can only bring to a thing what it contains
within itself;} therefore, if out of the inner genius, some
magic power arises which transforms all the observations
collected by mankind since the beginning, regarding the
nature of the physical world,-including the mind of man
himself-into patterns woven in some vast Design, should we
not regard that power as being, not only the soul of the design,
but also part of the spirit of the designer ? Anyone of us to-day
has seen patterns made by vast concourses of people, trained
to carry them out-soldiers in the Tattoos, members of the
Czech "sokols ", for instance,-but we can be certain that not
one of those people taking part would know anything about
the design they were forming, unless told. If then,. some one
of us glimpses the world design, that sense by which he does so
certainly deserves the term: magic, for it must necessarily
arise out of the nature of the designer, whilst being at the same
time part of the "surprising results." If, then, we were to
recognise the world as interpreted by this m~gic power, which
we possess within, we must eventually enter fully into the
very nature of the Designer.
Religion in one sense may be faith in what no man can
prove, but directly it leaves mysticism behind and becomes
organised religion, it necessarily becomes materialised; we
worship in forms, we eat bread and drink wine, we pray to a
God made rather too closely in man's image, to obtain material
benefits, we try to buy His favour by being" good." But these·
ideas .were not those of the founders of any great religion ;
such did notsuggest that their followers should " pray to God "
to .remove mountains : " If ye had faith as a grain of mustard
seed," that is the teaching of all the great seers. (By our own
act from within, we can draw the power for all things, for that
INTRODUCTION 23
which is within is the source of life, the living Idea. It has
driven the Life force from amreba to man, we can well believe
it has the power to drive men into gods. But so far we have not
been able to perceive anything of its real nature ; if, however,
by freeing· ourselves from all doctrines, all preconceived ideas,
all pursuit of that which is imposed from without, we boldly
set forth to seek the transcendent Life that is behind all mani-
festation, not caring whether it agrees with priest or scientist;
if quite simply we seek first the Kingdom of Heaven, after
having ranged throughout the entire universe, both great and
small, we may at last find ourselves at the doors of that King-
dom, and discover that all those things through the medium
of which we had sought to unravel it, were themselves the
Kingdom, and that it lies there where all true teachers have
always said it must be: within ourselves.
PART I
PERIODICITY ON EARTH
"THE Matter of this realm is all things in turn, a new
entity in every separate case, so that nothing is permanent
and one thing ceaselessly pushes another out of being.·
... Notice that the destruction of the elements passing
over is not complete-if it were we would have a Principle
of Being wrecked in Non-being-nor does an engendered
thing pass from utter non-being into Being : what happens
is that a new form takes the place of an old. There is,
then, a stable element, that which puts off one form to
receive the form of the incoming entity.''
PLOTINUS: Ennead, II; 4; 3 and 6.
CHAPTER I
WHAT IS PERIODICITY?
X
I look round me on the universe to-day, from the
world of vast spaces revealed by the astronomer,
from the extra-galactic nebulre, or island universes,
down to the microscopic worlds of the physicist who sees a
universe in an atom, or the potentialities which the biologist
discovers in ultra microscopic genes, I see one thing common to
all, which arrays them all into one colossal wheel of existence,
and yet which appears to have been overlooked by all investi-
gators thus far. There have been various theories about a
common nature running through universal creation: at one
time it was the ether ; Einstein called the speed of light the
C (constant) ; others have seen it in the quantum theory; now
it seems to be some species of wave mechanics. But be it
where it may, Man seems to feel there is some unity of activity,
if not of purpose, behind everything, which co-ordinates the
w4ole, and at every step forward he places this Constant at
some other point, in some other factor. This is all very well
for the physicist or the astronomer, but there are also other
people to be considered: the biologist, for instance, or the
philosopher, or even the saint. Each of these may put his
Constant in a different form at which the physicist might well
scoff, but his form is no more certain than is theirs.
In looking for such a Constant, it seems to me it should be
sought for outside any specific realm, all realms belonging to
all sciences being obviously dependent on the construction
of the human mind. A Constant should be of such sort, that
could we wipe out all human consciousness, it must necessarily
still remain. I can hear some of my readers ask ironically :
"You don,t mean to speak of God the Creator, do you?,
Immediately, certainly not. But,· if later something very like
Him emerges from what I say, it will not be because I intended
to write His apologia!
Let us then begin by asking ourselves if it be possible to
discover ·some universal factor, traceable through every form
27
THE WORLD BREATH
of science, philosophy or religion ? A factor about which
there can be no manner of doubt, and which forms the basis
of every kind of investigation, the basis of all those things
that Plato termed "things in themselves," and Kant
"categories." It is in all probability in the nature of the
wood that we often cannot see for the trees; if it exists at all,
it must be something simple and all-embracing, yet at the same
time embodying an abstract principle, for only such could be
of the nature of an Absolute.
Perhaps it would be as well to make clear what I mean by
"abstract principle," seeing that this work deals mainly with
something of that nature. There are, as we must have realised
by now, two orders of existenec: firstly, an order of things
which make up the sum of the physical world that we can dis-
sect, can see and understand, and which bears some relation to
what we are in ourselves, a world that is essentially compre-
hensible to us. But, at the same time, we know that were our
optic nerves and our brains differently constituted (such as may
possibly be the case with living beings on another planet,
if there be any), our ideas about this world would be completely
altered! (Therefore, although we think we know all about
our surroundings, even here we have to admit it possible that
we do not know the true nature of that which our senses
h d
"\ / '(- .
appre en .; t ,~,
Besides this, however, there is another order which has
been dawning upon us in this short quarter of a century,
namely, an order of "laws" or principles, to which the first
order conforms, and on which it apparently entirely depends
for its creation and maintenance, but for which our minds
can as yet find no definite explanation or reason. This new
. order of things is of a totally different nature to anything we
i have known hitherto, and what we call " Laws " might just
as well be qualities pertaining to some Factor unknown.
When we shall have learnt something of their true nature, -
we shall certainly realise that if any one of these laws were
absent, nothing at all would exist in the form we now see it.
Knowing even only a little about them, one is tempted to
regard the entire cosmos as the materialisation of some such
principle. It should be clearly understood, however, that
I do not mean any concrete substances when I speak of either
laws or principles; it would be a complete misapprehension of
facts were we to conceive them as such. They are more in the
nature of what Plotinus calls: ''reason principles,'' yet they
are as real as are any physical bodies, far more so in fact.
WHAT IS PERIODICITY ? 29
I might even go so far as to suggest that they are the only thing
we know of the nature of reality. Not alone the Quantum
theory or the Law of Periodicity, but also Truth, for instance,
may be regarded as of such nature : it i~_ in thing~ and outside
of them at the same time. So must the nature of the great
Constant be, only, to be true to its name, it should exist, not
alone as a concept of the human brain, but should be seen to
act in everythin~which we perceive, ~rrespec;:tive of our desires
or convenience. \It should be implipii\in the very existence of
all things in the universe, it should be possible to demonstrate
that nothing occurs in which it could not be discovered in one
shape or another, even if its purpose remains hidden.) Could
we but obtain a fleeting vision of the existence of so universal
a Power we should have made a vast stride as human beings !
_"There is a tide in the affairs of men," said the greatest poet,
but if it could be shown that this tide were not limited to the
affairs of men, but were a rise and fall proceeding throughout
the universe, this would prove that men and the universe
were one, governed by one rule, and everything we see in our
limited surroundings would necessarily become an aspect of
something which must manifest itself as well in the fall of a
leaf as in the birth of a star. The fact of its being apparent
on every side in quite common and simple facts of life should
be no reason for its not being universal. On the contrary
we should find indices of it everywhere, if once our senses were
attuned to it.
Let us stand on the beach and watch the sea come rolling in,
and far above it the moon sailing calmly across the night sky,
oblivious of the gazing eyes and the advancing sea. And yet,
if we think about it, we know that that sea is its slave ; it rolls
in and out claiming land, or disgorging it-and not only do we
know that it rolls in and out twice a day, but we see that each
movement it makes on its path is a continual advance and
retreat, and that even those waves which advance and retreat
have their own unceasing rise and fall-and, finally, we look
up at the moon and we laugh in its face: "Our sea is obliged
to advance and retreat according to your commands, but
you need not be so self-complacent. Are you yourself not
dependent on the waves of light that reach you from the sun,
on the electro-magnetic vibrations that hold you to this
earth?"
"As above, so below," from ripple on the wave to moon,
the activities in all proclaim something common to all, which
common ground leads us to the core of the problem I have
THE WORLD BREATH
set out to investigate; for this rise and fall of the tides, this
wax and wane of the moon, the change of season, day and night,
life and death, these are so many names which, as it seems to me,
cover one and the same thing, and inherent in this phenomenon
lies the greatest law of the universe : its life motif.
When we talk of Life we often speak of '' the breath of
Life "-which means the intake and output of air ; when we
talk of wave mechanics in physical science we visualise an
alternate being and non-being. So also we find traces of it in
the living heart ; and when we consider the sea and also the
life history of stars, we find the same periodic rise and fall, the
growth, consummation and decay. Now in all this and many
other examples which I shall speak of later, we perceive a
regular alternation of activity and inactivity, an apparent
ebb and flow, force and weakness, appearance and disappear-
ance; all the shapes and forms we know which are apparently
as different as the intake and output of breath is to the ebb
and flow of the tides, carry with them as the law of their being
one common property, namely, periodicity in their events.
This seems a very prosaic and material way of expressing
perhaps the greatest law we shall ever know, and indeed it is
much more than this sounds, but in order to make the abstract
conception, which is at the basis of my whole philosophy of
life, clear to my modern, scientifically minded reader~ I must
borrow scientific terminology, and callit the Law of Periodicity.
Under this designation I shall attempt in what follows to
portray a great rhythmic motion, swinging from maximum to
minimum, in a vast system of waves and tides, that embraces
the entire universe we know, and stretches even beyond this,
to that which we can only surmise.
But here at the outset I wish to make it clear that although
I shall speak of this system in some places as waves: i.e.
rises and falls; in others as tides : i.e. increase and decrease;
and again as the discontinuous emission of electro-magnetic
radiation : i.e. alternate appearance and non-appearance of
particles of energy ; or as life and death, and ultimately as the
expiration and inspiration of breath, yet in all these various
forms I see only various expressions of one single phenomenon,
or event as scientists would call it. A wave rises and falls,
but as a matter of fact it is purely a swell and a deflation, and
increase ofsubstance in one place is synchronous with a decrease
in another-it is in fact a system of undulations. And this same
expression is employed by scientists to describe waves of
radiation of every kind, even though in that case, between one
WHAT IS PERIODICITY? 3I
rise and another there is nothing appreciable at all. As far
as our capacity to gauge the mechanism of radiant waves
goes, it seems that they move forward in longer or shorter
waves of varying periods, but between each crest the wave
seems to be nowhere instead of in the trough as are ocean
waves, or perhaps it only disappears to our eyes because we
have as yet no means of tracing it in the interval. In any case,
it is an unquestionable fact to-day that waves of radiation
sway the physical world, and this is what matters here. As
we shall see later life and death are in all probability but
another manifestation of such discontinuous waves 1 Last of
all I see tides and breath in the same light: like waves of
radiation their activities are divided into regular periods;
and this applies equally to ocean waves, to the breathing
system of living organisms, or to the increase and decrease of
stellar bodies; everywhere one finds a period of rise, growth
or inflation, after which the organism sinks back again to
nothing; or, if we think of breath, there follows the emptiness
or pausebefore the startof the nextintake. The outbreathof the
system can well be likened to the ebbing tide, the intake to the
flow; it is all the same periodic increase and decrease. But,
as the breath of life seems to be the most significant expression
of all the manifestations of this periodic Law, I have used that
simile alone in the last and culminating portion of this work,
that which will sum up all rises and falls, waves of water,
vibrations of light, tides, lives of men, astronomic systems,
rhythmic motions of every description, in one vast ulterior
Life.
It may be questioned why I do not use one term all through
to express what is obviously one set of phenomena, but I have
employed every term that signifies periodic motion advisedly,
because, by a multiplicity of terms and similes, I hope to
keep the idea alive and :fluid, able at any time to embrace
any new system, any fresh manifestation or idea. If once
this idea became nailed down to one fixed designation, either :
wave, or vibration, or breath, it would become sterilised and
cease to be a Law of the Infinite: I realise only too well, how-
ever, that it will take a great deal of time and effort before we
can visualise the whole world and life and the universe in
these terms ; \that Law is something to which men's mental!( t (.
eyes will have to get accustomed.\ It is rather like seeing
pictures in a stereoscope: unless the images life presents to
us are so placed that our two eyes simultaneously see the
picture and the Law, there will be no perspective, and only
32 THE WORLD BREATH
the two-dimensional aspect of life will remain present to our
vision.
Another point which I wish to make quite clear before I
begin is, that in all I am about to say it is never the scientific
event, nor the fact of experience, that is the real object I
have in view. I must necessarily start with these as a basis,
but unless my reader firmly keeps in mind that these are
merely to be taken as illustrations of the manifestation of an
entirely unmaterial factor, of which they are the instruments,
he will never see anything but just forms in my words. I
propose to study the Law of Periodicity throughout all earthly
and universal phenomena, as we know them to-day, and I
hope in the end to establish one nature common to all. To
this end all sciences will be asked to contribute, although they
will never be an object in themselves. Finally I shall launch
out into the relations between material and non-material
worlds, energy the fruit of the dissolution of universes, and
energy the summit of human life, where I shall hope to reach
the final goal.
I long debated with myself whether I should stint with the
theme of the great melody that embraces the entire universe,
and from thence lead on to the variations, which exist all
around us,-according to the laws of music,-but I finally
came to the conclusion that even though it be necessary to
break these laws, in the interest of a better understanding of
the theme, the variations in this case must lead the way.
The theme is so vast that the thunder of it might deafen the
ears of the listeners, had they not been prepared for it by
attempts to pick out its notes through the intricacies of varia-
tions. Once we have understood these, we shall begin to hear
the dominant notes of the theme sounding throughallharmonies
and intervals, until at last it will drown all else in the majesty
Df its great chords.
CHAPTER II
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD
W
HAT is likely to have attracted the attention of
the first self-conscious man, as he considered the
conditions of the world around him ? What to his
mind may have been the most salient qualities of existence?
Would he not have made some differentiation between the
animate and inanimate forms which surround him to begin
with, between life and death in Nature, on which his very
subsistence was dependent? All primitive religious festivals
prove to us that these facts must have been the chief pre-
occupation of early man, and his first care was to obtain the
favour of the gods in a regulation of the seasons' temperatures
according to his wishes. But these facts are not only of
primary significance to primitive man, they have grown and
spread in importance in direct ratio to the growth of our
knowledge and understanding. of the world, and to-day we
recognise that they not only relate to life in general and animal
life in particular, but that they introduce us to a range of ideas
that extends as far as the uttermost depths of the universe.
(When we shall have traversed the widest horizons of which
our minds are capable, we shall still :find ourselves faced by
these phenomena, even though so greatly altered in aspect as
to be hardly recognisable, yet still undoubtedly existing as the
Alpha and Omega of existence.) This being so, I think that
these contrasting conditions deserve .) be examined a little
more closely.
In attempting to analyse the characteristics· that differentiate
animate from inanimate, and gauge their mutual relations
and limitations, the first thing that dawns upon.us is, that this
classification covers alternate states of activity and quiescence,
which run through everything we see or know of, and are
both contrasting and interdependent! Not only do the more
obvious earthly events of sleeping and waking, night and day,
winter and summer succeed one another in some kind of causal
relationship, but the more we study the universe in the light of
scientific knowledge, the more incontestable does it become
c 33
34 THE WORLD BREATH
that the animate and the inanimate worlds are not two opposite
sets of phenomena, but that each is merely the complement of
the other. Even though living organisms are imbued with a
force that is undecipherable so far, and of which there is no
trace in the elements, yet, without the co-operation of oxygen,
hydrogen and carbon, no living system could exist-and there
is no doubt that once life departs, the animate world dissolves
back into the inanimate elements, which would make it appear
that there is an interchange of movement and rest that goes on
unceasingly throughout the universe, and we end by recognising
that there are periodic events succeeding one another every-
where ad infinitum. And there is no definite proof that we
should be mistaken in further applying this theory of alternat-
ing activity and repose to the problem of life and death. Even
though we exclude any theory of life after death, we must still
admit that from the purely physical point of v~ew, life and
death are a sequence of events which seem to keep this earth
life going, perhaps they make up the character of this entity,
as we shall later discover that the discontinuous emission of
waves make up light ?
Until the present day we have been too much inclined to
take this alternation of life and death for granted, it is inevit-
able, and, so far as we can see, inexplainable. We may study
the phenomena of life, and various attempts have been made
to pierce the mystery of death in the course of time, but the
simple fact of their alternation does not seem to have concerned
anyone, which is surprising considering how many examples
there are of it on every side. Perhaps the fact that this has
been ignored by both scientific and religious thinkers for so
long is due to the fact that although we knew the activity side
of the picture, we were in the dark about the other half, in the
most obvious cases, such as sleep and death; therefore the
nature of both their periodicity and alternation was almost
impossible to gauge. But in the last few years the theories of
wave mechanics have altered everything, for the whole world
has been shown to consist of waves of different kinds of radia-
tion, only differentiated from one another by regulated periods
of alternate visibility and non-visibility: "To-day we regard
the universe as consisting primarily of waves-waves of radia-
tion whose properties are specified by the undulatory theory
of light, and waves of matter whose nature the new science of
wave-mechanics is still trying to unravel."1 If this, then,
be true of the fundamental factors of the universe, why should
1 Sir J. Jeans: Mysterious UniveYse, Rede Lecture, Camb., Nov., 1930.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 35
we not be justified in regarding all alternate manifestations as
of the nature of waves, rising and falling, being and not being,
and being again somewhere else ?-If the universe consists of
waves all things within it must, in larger or smaller proportions,
manifest the same periodic nature, and an understanding of
the scientific conception of wave-mechanics may serve to
illustrate _the nature of all periodic phenomena,-from night
and day to life and death.
As far as we can tell at present it is impossible to reduce
the world to anything smaller than the two constituents of the
atom, or to discover anything more universal, therefore I
propose to begin my study of the Law of Periodicity by an
examination of the atomic world, with the object of discovering
whether there is in it anything remotely resembling the
characteristics of this Law. If it can be shown to be a govern-
ing factor here, at the very root of the constitution of the
Universe, we shall have set foot in the stirrup and may :find
that our steed will develop wings that may some day carry us
beyond the stars.
So much has been written and spoken about the atom in
recent years, and so much is con\inually being altered in
scientific conceptions of its nature, even from day to day,
that I feel a certain hesitation in plunging into an account
of it or its activities! At present it seems fairly certain that
the atom is composed of positive and negative charges: the
proton and electron; the former was until lately regarded
as the final and irreducible nucleus of the Universe. But even
as I wrote these lines, there came the news that Lord Ruther-
ford had succeeded in splitting this famous nucleus which had
hitherto resisted all attacks made upon it, and if the nature
of the nucleus could be changed, there is no doubt that eventu-
ally the material which it composes would be altered as well.
But this prospect is still a very remote one, and I do not think
it need concern us here,-we do not yet possess the philosopher's
stone ! The proton will certainly continue its work as hereto-
fore so long as we live, and I can still pursue my investigations
on the familiar basis.
What is of importance to us here, however, is not how or if
the proton can be divided, but what the result of atomic activity
may be. What is to-day regarded as the real nature of matter
will in all probability be discarded to-morrow, and eventually,
what we had always seen and known may just as conceivably
be what matter "really" is, as that which has resulted from
mathematical calculations ! Therefore any theory that bases
THE WORLD BREATH
itself on the composition of matter as it is conceived of in I934,
cannot possibly be of the nature of that unchanging reality
which we have set out to seek. But in any case, what the
atom is, is merely of academic interest, what it accomplishes
is of vast significance, for on its activity depends the existence
of the universe. In this, as in all universal matters, we must
not set out to seek the differences that distinguish the indi-
vidual, but the likeness that runs through all-in synthesis alone
may we aspire at discovering the integer.
In order to understand the activities of the atom, we must
first of all learn something about another question that has
'Qeen on the lips of all who have taken any interest in science
in the last few years, and that is Planck,s Quantum theory.
Speaking of this, Eddington says: "At present we can notice
the contrast that the laws which we now recognise as man-
made are characterised by continuity, whereas the laws to
which the mind as yet lays no claim are characterised by
atomicity. The Quantum theory with its avoidance of fractions ·
and insistence on integral units seems foreign to any scheme
which we woulr oe likely subconsciously to have imposed as a
frame for natural phenomena."1 Bertrand Russell adds that
from this point of view he (Eddington) " inclines to the belief
that the Quantum principle is the first real law of Nature that
has been discovered in physics."2 The quantum principle is,
however, not in the nature of a physical fact which can be seen
or touched, it is of the same nature as the Law of Periodicity,
an immaterial calculus governing the relations and activities
of material phenomena.
There are two decisive reasons for starting an investigation
into the nature of the Law of Periodicity by a study of the
Quantum principle, namely : (a) because it is the most universal
and unalterable of any principle thus far discovered in physics ;
(b) because the Quantum principle is only demonstrable by
objects that are either in motions that are periodic, i.e. the
motion of a pendulum or a wave, one period being the time
taken to complete the cycle from one maximum or minimum
tq the next ; or conditionally periodic, i.e. compounded of a
number of motions, each of which separately is periodic,
but which do not have the same periods, as, for instance,
emanations from stars or atoms. Considering, therefore, that
I have set out to study Periodicity, and its role in the universe,
I could not make a better beginning than by studying a prin-
ciple which is, by its very nature, the calculus which defines
1 N.P. W., p. 246. 2 A.B.c.• r7o.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 37
that periodic emission of light or energy which enables us to
form our conception of the material world. It is clear that if
we wish to find a law that governs the universe, we must first
of all understand the nature of the waves of light or energy
and their cause ; without these there would be no universe
to study ! Knowing this, we may hold the key to all cosmic
phenomena.
Thanks to the spectroscope it has been shown that all forms
of light, whether radiating invisible or visible rays, are emitted
discontinuously, even though the gaps between one appearance
and the next be so short that to the human eye there be no
intermittence. The human eye is no more the sole criterion,
however, the spectrum takes up the story where the eye leaves
off, and the spectrum tells a very different story. All reflections
of any kind of radiation on the spectrum appear in alternate
light and dark bands, instead of in a steady light streak, as
our eyes would have led us to expect. Now in studying the
atom, we know to begin with that it is composed of positive
and negative electric particles which have been called protons
and electrons. The latter circle in certain specified orbits round
the former, like planets round the sun ; these orbits are ruled
by certain periods of action known as the Quantum h. For
instance, taking the smallest unit known at present, the
hydrogen nucleus with its accompanying electron: if here,
the circumference of the orbit is multiplied by the velocity of the
electron, and the result is multiplied by its mass, the Quantum
his obtained. In the next orbit in which the electron circles,
which is four times as large as the first, the result of the multipli-
cation is 2h. In the next orbit,·which is nine times as large, it is
3h, etc. "The energy which is lost by the atom in one of these
jumps of the electron (from one circle to another. Au.) is turned
into a light wave. What sort of a light wave it is to become, is
determined by the theory of quanta. The light wave is a
periodic process, and if the frequency is v, its period is the vth
of a second. The generalised Quantum principle shows that
if the period of a wave is t, the energy of the wave multiplied
by t must be h, or an exact multiple of h, since t is the vth of
a second (when v is the frequency), which follows that the energy
of the wave is hv."1 This h unit is said to be made up of erg-
sees. "The erg is the unit of energy, and the second is the
unit of time." To be exact 6·ss.Io-27 erg-secsis the measure
of the Quantum h, which is invariable throughout the Universe.
There may be and are, variations in the composition of the
t A.B.C., p. 77·
THE WORLD BREATH
ingredients ; the amount of energy emitted by the Sodium
atom, for instance, during any one of its discontinuous radiations
has 3·4.10-12 ergs, and it is marked by a distinctive period of
r·g.ro-15 sees; multiplied together they give the invariable
6·ss.ro-27 erg-seconds, or the quantity h. The same applies
to any other source of radiation: hydrogen, calcium, X-rays,
gamma-rays, etc. The energy may vary in its number of ergs,
there will be different periods of seconds, but the net result will
always be the Quantum h.
It is therefore clear that radiation is emitted from atoms,
not in a constant flow, but in lumps of h.v., or different multiples
of it, and it is this fact "that is responsible for keeping the
universe alive."1 If there were a continuous radiation, the
hydrogen atom which is at the basis of the universe, " would
begin to shrink at the rate of over a metre a second, and after
about ro-1° seconds, the nucleus and electron would fall
together and would probably disappear in a flash of radiation.
The Quantum-theory by prohibiting any emission of radiation ·
less than h.v., prohibits in actual fact any emission at all
except from those few atoms which have a quite exceptionally
large amount of energy to emit, from which it results that the
duration of the universe instead of being measured in units
of ro-10 seconds, is measured in units of ro2o seconds." 2
Another interesting fact about the quantum is that no atom
can imbibe anything but that exact measure of light or energy
any more than it can emit it ; it is as if an atom waited until
it found the exact dose of energy required before itwould accept
any at all. If it can catch sufficient energy to cause one of its
electrons to jump from one orbit to another, it will take it,
otherwise it will let all waves pass it by undisturbed. Now the
difference between two states of an atom .should always be
that of one orbit jump, or that between its weight with or
without one Quantum. This has been proved by bombarding
the atom with electrons charged with a known amount of
energy. Only when their charge is sufficient to produce the
exact Quantum do they leave any energy behind in the atom
they traverse.
Since we know that what is atomic-everything we call
matter-" is not material energy at all . . . but radiant energy
or, to be more precise, the exchanges of energy between radia-
tion and matter,"3 I think that, in order to understand the real
nature of everything our senses apprehend, we must now
1 Jeans : At. & Qu., p. 21.
3 Ibid., p. Ig.
t Ibid.; p. 22.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 39
make a cursory excursion into the atomic realm. difficult
though it be, to express. or understand it, without mathematics.
The parent of all atomic systems. the hydrogen atom. has
one electron circling in wider or closer orbits round its nucleus.
Above this. on the atomic scale. there are atoms with various
numbers of electrons and protons. up to the atom of uranium.
with its eighty-six electrons. Now all atoms have two forms of
activity : on the one hand. there are disturbances in the atomic
system caused by the absorption of a passing light quantum.
which induces the electrons to expand to their widest orbits.
This is then followed by the emission of an equal (or so nearly
equal that it is hardly worth mentioning here) quantum of
energy. or little parcel of light called a photon.l Subsequently
to this. the electrons drop back from the outer orbits into the
inner ones again. as no inner orbit may remain empty nor two
electrons occupy the same one. Sir James Jeans says : " It
appears to be a generallawthat each such disturbance produces·
one and only one complete photon. The atom loses mass exactly
equalling the mass of the resulting photon . . . no experiment
yet performed has suggested that a fraction .of e~ther a photon
or an electron could exist independently."2 This atomic exhala-
tion and inhalation of photons of energy goes on continuously
throughout the atomic world. which motion being alternate
or intermittent instead of incessant, may be likened to the
exhalation and inhalation of air by the living species!
Besides this. there is another important point about the
nature of the electrons in atoms. namely. that their orbits are
always certain exact multiples and never any other. The
electron could never be in an orbit five times as large as the
first, one time. and sixteen times its size the next. for instance.
which is perfectly comprehensible. remembering that what the
atom absorbs is always only a certain fixed quantum. "The
electron might be able to vibrate in a great many different
periods. but not necessarily in any period arbitrarily chosen.
Now there must be a resonance.between the waves accompany-
ing the electron and the electron itself. The momentum of the
electron and also its energy are connected by simple relations
with the frequency of the guiding waves. It is shown ...
that the energy of the electron is proportional to the frequency
of these waves. and that the product of the momentum of the
electron and the wave is ,~~~nstant (namely. one photon).
1 N.B.-A " photon " is something between the old conception of an
electric particle and what has also been called a "wavicle."
:a Sylvanus Thompson Memorial Lecture, Dec., 1931.
THE WORLD BREATH
The possible values of the momentum will be separated by
finite intervals so that the increase in momentum will· not
take place continuously but by jumps. This corresponds to
a kind of quantisation of the momentum."I
Further, it is not alone that the momentum of the electron
plus wave takes place at regular intervals, there is one more
thing to be considered : in order to manifest in our four-
dimensional world system, the energy emanating from the
atom would be completely insufficient if it just appeared as a
flash in the pan, it is the quration about which we spoke, the
sees as well as the ~_rgs which make the visible world.
In conclusion, keeping in mind the absorption as well
as the emission of photons, the ceaseless indraw and output
of energy occurring throughout the material universe, I
do not think there can be the slightest doubt that the Law
of Periodicity dominates and creates the universe we see,
whether with our eyes or through the spectacles of the mathe-
matician, all the more so since there are not only certain fixed
rates of emission, but all movement so proceeds as to achieve
a certain exact amount by the time one period is completed.
This makes one suspect that in nature there is some kind of
foreknowledge of the integral calculus without which '' it is
impossible to know how fast to go so as to achieve the certain
result at the end."2 This seems an amazing assumption to make
but I think that everything that follows will substantiate it.
This, then, is one form of atomic activity, but there is also
another, namely, the ionisation of atoms which occurs in the
hot interiors of stars, where the radiation is so intense that
electrons are continuously being torn away from their particular
atomic systems altogether. When this occurs the ionised atom
is rendered useless until it can recapture an electron to replace
the lost one. In the meantime the energy, the mass of the star,
radiates itself away, for an atom in this condition is incapable
of placing any obstacle in the way of the outflow of energy.
Eddington gives us a very clear description of this process.
Speaking of the density or opacity of stars·(but it applies equally
to any form of radiant matter), he says : "An ether wave
falls on an atom and its energy is sucked up by one of the
planet electrons which uses it to escape from the atom
and travel away at high\speed. (Leaving the atom ionised.
Author.) The point is that in the very act of absorption, the
absorbing mechanism is broken and it cannot be used again
until it has been repaired. 'To repair it the atom must capture
1 J. J. Thomson: Beyond the Electron. 2 A.B.C., p. 151.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 41
one of the free electrons wandering about, inducing it to take
the place of the lost electron.... We have seen that the
stellar atoms have lost most of their electrons ; that means that
at any moment a large proportion of the absorption traps are
awaiting repair. For this reason we find a smaller opacity in
the stars than in terrestrial material. The lowered opacity
is simply the result of overworking the absorbing mechanisms-
they have too much radiation to deal with."1
Here again we find ourselves bound to the laws of quantum
or intermittence: just as the atom cannot exist except by
imbibing energy of quantum h, so also may it not be destroyed
without it. The alpha particles which may bombard an atom
are still dependent on the quantum h, for were they not, the
atom could not absorb them at all. But in this case the atom
is attacked with such force that it crumbles to pieces and its
electrons are carried off on further travels. And here it may be
said that when the atom is bare of electrons (or ionised) its
wave of life is in its trough; when it recaptures one, it rises to
its crest once more.
There is one more proof of the dominion of the Law of Period-
icity exemplified in atomic activity. On our earth there are
atoms which break up spontaneously, namely, those of radio-
active substances. These are literally burning themselves
away, so that what was once an atom of uranium transforms
itself in the course of time to one of lead, which has not been
discovered to have any radiation at all. From the radio-active
atom four types of radiation are emitted, whichare distinguished
by different wave-lengths: namely, alpha, beta, gamma and
X-rays. The first are known to be the product of the nucleus
of the atom, being positively charged helium atoms ; the
. second are negatively charged electrons; the third have lately
been discovered by Lord Rutherford to be the result of a nuclear
process intimately connected with the expulsion of alpha
particles. In making the announcement of this far-reaching
discovery, Lord Rutherford declared that he was now sure that
gamma rays arose from the alpha rays, and had nothing what-
ever to do with the electrons from the nucleus. ''The idea we
now envisage is that this minute nucleus probably consists
mainly of alpha particles-that is of helium nucleii. . . . It
looks to me as if virtually all the gamma rays which we observed
-at any rate those of higher frequency-were derived from the
motions of alpha particles within the nucleus."2
1 St. & At., p. 30.
2
Opening of the Congress of the British Institute of Radiology,
Dec. 3, 1931.
42 THE WORLD BREATH
If, then, alpha particles are definitely of nuclear ong1n,
gamma rays which derive from them must necessarily be so too,
and further it is certain that even in these, the minutest of all
material phenomena, there are still different energy levels and
intermittency. This is proved by the fact that among the
particles emanating from Radium C. there are nine distinct
velocities, but to one million of the normal or slowest alpha
particles, there are only seventeen of the next most frequent
kind, and the other velocities are represented by less than one
in a million, except for one. These particles with higher
velocities, although so rare, are of the utmost importance to
complete my case ; without them I would have had to admit one
serious. exception to the dominion of the Law of Periodicity.
These different velocities emanating from the nucleus prove,
however, that within it "there are certain definite energy
levels and tell us what the steps of energy are. . . . According
to the quantum theory .... if there is within an atom
a change in energy which results in one act, in the starting of·
an electro-magnetic radiation, then the size of that change of
energy tells us the wave-length or frequency of the radiation."1
Therefore these nine particles of different frequencies tell the
story of the wave-lengths which even the nucleus-the ne
plus ultra on the downward scale in the physiCal world,-is
obliged to conform to, and there can be no further doubt that
periodicity rules without any exception throughout the whole
realm of appearances, whether seen or calculated. The very
existence of the universe is apparently dependent upon this
atomic pulsation of h.v., if there were no pause between one
beat and another, the human heart must wear itself out before
we had even lived a dog's life; if there were continuous
radiation, "if h were strictly zero, the whole material energy
of the universe would disappear into radiation in a time which
would be measured in thousand-millionth parts of a· second.''2
I have dwelt over-long perhaps on this intermittent aspect
of atomic activity, but it is of such vital importance to every-
thing I have to say that it was necessary to make absolutely
sure of my facts where they were open to proof, before proceed-
ing to more abstract questions. I am starting on a road that
leads to far horizons, but it is necessary to start all journeys
by the path that lies at one's feet, in the landscape that is
dull and familiar, in order to reach places strange and
undreamed of. I have to explore the realms of physics,
1 E. N. da C. Andrade: "Structure of the Atom," ObserveY, December 6,
1931. 2 Jeans: At. & Qu., p. 21.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 43
astronomy and psychology, of ordinary human life and meta-
physics, but there will be one continuous thread running
through the whole, and it seemed to me that this leitmotif
was most clearly apparent in the physical science dealing with
atoms. And this applies equally whether we regard all atomic
emission as a series of waves of probability or as lumps of
light : photons. The latest interpretation of the atomic basis
of the physical world is that: "All we can perceive, are inter-
actions in which transfers of charge or action from one system
to another occur. We have no adequate reason for assuming
the system to exist, or to follow any particular path in the
interval. Strictlyspeaking, therefore, even onthe classical view,
we should have built up our four-dimensional world of a series
of world points, at which the existence of particles was verified
by their interacting with otherparticles, and at which tangents
could be drawn defining their motions. . . . Indeterminacy
converts these world points into four-dimensional elements
of volume of finite size, not four-dimensional volumes with
definite boundaries, but elements shading off according to
an error function whose integral has the mean value h. The
lines which previously could be produced from one point of
observation to the next, become ill-defined cones, within which
we shall find another interaction, in other words probability
cones, which will enable us to predict where we are likely to
find the particle interacting again.''1
Far from altering the periodic nature of the Universe this
latest interpretation only confirms it, by making the alternate
appearance of a particle at points and its· subsequent dis-
appearance clearer than ever: being, non-being; rise and fall;
crest and trough; output and intake,-all is dominated by
periodicity. Even if one goes so far as to imagine that
radiation, during the period of transfer from one system to
another may have no existence as anything at all, that it is
only in interaction with our eyes, for instance, that something
IS, there still remains a period in which it can be said : light
is, and a period when it is not, and Periodicity rules supreme
once more.
I hope I have now succeeded in painting a picture in my
reader's mind of the material world acting according to, or acted
upon by, something as indefinable as a thought law, something
of spiritual nature in a way, yet at the same time absolutely
definite and apprehensible in its effect, and this I shall ask him
to keep in mind in all that follows, right up to the life and
1
F. A. Lindemann: Physical Significance of the Quantum The01'y, p. 45·
44 THE WORLD BREATH
death of universes. In Eddington's words : '' If we have
any instinct that can recognise a fundamental law of Nature
when it sees one, that instinct tells us that the interaction
of radiation and matter in single quanta is something lying
at the root of world-structure, and not a casual detail in -the
mechanism of the atom.''l
We have so far examined this world-structure in formulre
presented to us by the mathematician, but of which our
eyes or senses have no cognisance. If it be a fundamental law
of the universe, however, Periodicity should be recognisable
in the world we perceive as well as in that of the mind. Let us,
for example, consider art and nature, and see whether two such
very definite aspects of our daily life are still dependent upon
Periodicity for their manifestations; if we discover clear
evidence of its predominance here, then we can safely take it for
granted that there is nothing on our earth that escapes it.
The most obvious example of the action of Periodicity is .
certainly that of ocean waves. If we stand on a high rock and
watch a storm, we see huge breakers rising and falling, great
mountains and valleys of water. Across these we may observe
the smaller hummocks of the surface waves driven along by the
wind, and if we watch the whole we shall see how one and all,
some faster, some slower, are undulating onwards in one direc-
tion, as did the waves of radiation. Seen from above, the entire
ocean seems impelled along, rising and falling, each rise a little
bit more advanced on its way than the last, with its face scoured
by the wavelets hurrying across its surface, like an old grand-
father being pulled along by his young grandchild. We may
then compare the larger or group waves to the motion of a
material particle or electron through space, the small waves
being the so-called waves of ether. This motion perfectly
exemplifies Periodicity in the whole Universe : it is neither
the atom nor the water in themselves that originate the whole
movement, these are impelled by a force greater than they,
against which they can put up no resistance, and yet which is
not material as they are, but absolutely insubstantial. "The
wind moveth where it listeth," no man may seize it and say:
"Here it is," the most mighty forces are those which no Irian
can see,-the greatest being the laws which govern even those
invisible powers in Nature, and decree that rise and fall,
extension and contraction are necessary for the maintenance
of the whole universe.
I will take a further example from the greatest of·all arts :
1 N.P.w., p. I8g.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 45
music. Music alone builds something into space around us for
which Nature has no counterpart. It is no copy, but man's own
creation, and for this reason has always, from the time of
Pythagoras until the present day, been likened to pure mathe-
matics. I do not propose to reduce music to mere numbers,
however, but I merely wish to point out that without the
intervals, music could not exist ; it is the intervals that dictate
the various types of music, as wave-lengths distinguish Alpha
and Beta rays, etc. If our ears are not attuned to the intervals
the music becomes cacophony, as is the case for most Europeans
who hear Chinese music for the first time, and I suppose equally
vice versa. Also it is the intervals, not only between the bass
note, the major third and perfect fifth, or those which distin-
guish the quaver from the semi-quaver, which enable us to
build up a symphony or a song, but also those of time between
the beats that reach our ears. If one note ran into another,
if there were not those two notes of interval between bass and
third, that pause between two and three,-even though it be
sometimes so short that it is almost as imperceptible to our
ears as are 'the intervals in the light-waves to our eyes-music
would never have existed at all. What is this interval? Has
it any greater tangible reality than the pause between two
breaths, can we identify its properties ? No, it is merely the
nought holding in itself the probability that another note will
follow, which carries us from note to note, chord to chord, and
creates in our ears the sense of harmony ; it is this interval
that puts rhythm into sound, and brings music into the domain
of the universal motions governed by the almighty Periodic
Law. Rise of ocean waves, swell of music, our eyes and ears
cannot apprehend anything except in periods. This is beginning
to take shape as something structural in the terms of our
apprehension of Nature.
Where do we now stand? We find a variety of physical pheno-
mena which move in various forms of waves impelled by some-
thing which of itself has no existence, although we cannot deny
that we apprehend its results. What is it, then, that the waves
carry on their bosom? Something which appears as energy,
as wind or as rhythm-yet whose very existence as such is
unproveable. Eddington admits that " there are no pure
waves and no pure particles "-the physical world only
assures our senses of one thing, namely, that something is being
radiated discontinuously throughout the universe, and seems
to be carried to its predestined goals by something that is
akin to what we call waves. But whether this energy spins
THE WORLD BREATH
its way as does the spider its web, out of its own impetus, and
does so by an intermittent activity, or whether it is being
carried by something else is in no way certain. We call what
reaches one spot from another spot a wave, merely because this
is the easiest mode of expressing undulating, spreading action.
In waves of water itis easy to find the crest of the wave,
but when it is a question of radiation its crests may appear
now here and now there, but if we attempt to determine their
actual position, we would arrive too late, they would already be
elsewhere. All we can be sure of is a recurrent existence and
non-existence. This is all we can accept as reality in con-
nection with the physical world, and, so long as the quantum
h remains the measure of these periods, it seems to be the
creator of physical manifestation. Now if we imagine the
scale of value that starts with dead lead, and leads through all
elements, through living manifestations, through mind to
something completely free from all physical trammels, com-
pletely intangible, spiritual if you will, which possesses no ·
definable nor qualifiable entity at all, we must regard the
quantum h, which i§ the mathematical calculus goyerning
periodicity, as the formula which enables us to know of the
existence of all this recurrent manifestation and non-mani-
festation, and therefore as the most vital piece of evidence
that has so far reached our understanding.
But the existence of the quantum measure is still something
subject to the human brain. Beyond it thete may be that
which is not measure, but measurer of these lumps that carry
a chance of life throughout the universe. The mechanical inter-
pretation of the world is falling more and more into disrepute,
the principle of indeterminacy is seeing to that, and to-day
the quantum h is said to be merely carrying ''a uniform chance
of energy." Eddington says: "It would seem that what the
light waves were really bearing within reach of each atom was
not a millionth of a quantum, but a millionth chance of
securing a whole quantum.''1 It seems to me like one of those
kaleidoscope puzzles sometimes given to children, which they
are able to shake into various patterns without ever being
able to determine what pattern will appear, only in the world
of physics there seems to be some law by which, if these lumps
of colour shake into just the quantum h, they appear as some-
thing to our senses, if they do not they pervade the Universe
as parts of an immense and invisible Whole. In very truth
colour seems the best simile: in the sun's corona all colours
1 N.P.W., p. 189.
WAVES AND THE PHYSICAL WORLD 47
are united, but according to the capacities or nature of the
things around it, they select now this colour now that. The
only thing that can be regarded as true-I will not use the
word real, because we have too material an idea of reality-
is the '' uniform chance '' of something turning up in periodic
manifestation. In the intervals we must presume there is
nothing. This is very difficult for our minds to accept, the
intervals are so short between one emission and another pick
up, that we see all forms around us continuously: that green
wall or this brown table never vanishes, but I must admit that
if I believe in this Law of Periodicity I must logically maintain
that this table alternates wholly or in fragments, existing and
not existing in turn, continually without stopping. In the
intervals it is part of the universal chance, nothing of which
anyone can assert it is either here or there. It is part of a
Whole which is only broken up so long as things take form :
a whole which contains the chance of all things : " That
Transcendent was the potentiality of the All ; this secondary
is the All made actual."1
I think in conclusion we may safely sum up all that has
been said so far regarding the visible and invisible universe,
by saying that it is all a manifestation of some underlying
Oneness which carries within its completeness a law by which
it gathers its various parts into lumps of action, of which our
senses and our minds which observe it, are also parts, lumps
with all the rest. Whether we call what we perceive: waves
or photons or rhythms, the same principle underlies all, and
whether things are appearing or disappearing the principle
still remains, we know that what has appeared must somewhere,
somehow, reappear, and so Periodicity stalks through space-
time.
If this law be something in the nature of the Absolute,
however, it must be traceable throughout every form of living
as well as so-called dead phenomena, for it would be impossible
that an Absolute should be in one place and not in another, or
be applicable to one thing and not to another. If it were so,
it would still belong to the realm of the partial invented by
the mind, the realm of what the Indians call Maya-illusion.
It is certainly a bold assumption to make, to say one has
found something of the nature of what lies beyond our whole
universe. But if every fact bears it out one can but reverently
bow one's head-and at the same time shout from the house-
tops : This is Truth.
t Plotinus : Ennead, V, 4, 2.
CHAPTER III
WAVES AND LIFE
NOW that I have assured myself of the support of
science, and obtained the most circumstantial evi-
dence possible, for the correctness of my theory of
Periodicity, I would like to regard it for a moment from the
point of view of our ordinary everyday life. If, as I firmly
believe, this law will, at some future time, be capable of
supplanting the law of Moses, as the basis of our religion, it
·must govern the lives men lead as well as that which they
observe in their laboratories. If the principle to which the
entire universe is subject eventually enters man's conscious-
ness, and is made the foundation of his life, it must become
his religion, and everything else will be subordinate to it.
Once this idea has saturated his consciousness, however, he
will quite easily discover the consequent truths for himself!
Music has always been pouring through the ether, but until
we discovered a method of trapping the waves on which it
travelled, we were entirely ignorant of the fact, and anyone
who had asserted that we were surrounded by music from all
parts of the earth would have been considered mad. Yet to-day
the song of a singer in distant Warsaw is capable of teaching
me, in a small village of southern Italy, the laws of the uni-
verse! Further, had anyone dared to assert that everybody
(not only Saints) receives rays of something outside this sense
world, from beyond this earth, a few centuries ago, he would
probably have been burnt at the stake, whereas now no one
would dare definitely to deny it.
It is not that these things never existed before, but merely
that we were not evolved enough to apprehend them. To-day
Jeans makes the statement that the universe is the thought
of a mathematician; some voices are raised in protest: why
just that of a mathematician is asked, but not : why a thought
at all! Besides this, we must realise that from the moment
we begin to say: you and me, one and one, we are starting
48
WAVES AND LIFE 49
the rhythm of numbers that spins itself out of nothing into
the farthest depths of space, and perhaps reaches the feet of
that mathematician ! Therefore if we see the whole universe
revolving rhythmically in waves of radiation, liable to being
measured, can we not open wide our minds, abandon our
prejudices, and allow science to give us indications how
we may further regulate our lives in order that they may
harmonise with the laws that govern the universe, and so
enter into a larger system, eventually perhaps that of the
Creator?
Let us then proceed to examine the life of man as we have
that of the atom, without any foregone conclusions about his
being a higher species, or living as against dead material, just
regarding him as an ant, if you will, happening to have been
produced by this planet. And to this man, let us apply what
we learnt from the atomic world. What, to begin with, is
man composed of? Cells which form a body,-as protons
and electrons form an atom-and mind, the equivalent of
energy or action. We have here the same dual forces as are
to be found throughout the universe, forming one Whole,
which in this case is the human being. And this living entity
exists by means of alternate periods of inhalation of oxygen
and exhalation of carbon dioxide, which is operated, as we
know, by the expansion and contraction of the heart. These
occur with as precise a periodicity as does the expansion and·
contraction of the atom. The heart beats that set the time for
these periods are like the rhythmic beats of a great engine,
and between every beat there is the pause that gives the
heart rest and makes life but another form of intermittent
action. Without the alternate activity and rest the heart
could not carry on its functions for a year, perhaps not even
a day I Therefore here at the very first step we take in an
examination of Life, we discover that the Law of Periodicity
is responsible for its very inception.
There is another aspect of life which is equally interesting
from the periodic point of view. We all know that in the
average human being the body and mind grow, develop,
increase in powers, till a certain degree of perfection and virility
is attained, after which the system distends, decreases and the
life fires get weaker and weaker till death supervenes. One
might perhaps imagine that if neither illness nor accident were
to occur, man might live forever, but this is not the case,
for the living organism shows the same wave characteristics
that we discovered in atoms. This is not an a priori conclusion
D
so THE WORLD BREATH
to prove my case but a scientific fact, as I think the following
will show: "By means of careful mathematical calculations,
based on exact and extensive data, Professor Robertson arrives
at the conclusion that the cause of growth is the presence of
a chemical ca~g substance given off by the cell and which
determines ifs rate of multiplication. He shows how the curve
of the cycles of growth in man and various animals corresponds
with the curve of the normal chemical reaction of auto-
catalised substances. He explains that : 'A chemical reaction
may be brought to a stop in either of two ways, namely, by
exhaustion of the substrate, or material undergoing trans-
formation, or, on the other hand, by accumulation of the
products of the reaction, resulting in the accelerating of the
reverse action to the point of equality of its velocity with that
of the forward action '1 and argues that, since the material
forming the substrate of nuclear catalysis is perpetually
replenished from external sources owing to the consumption _
of food, the cause of the reaction observed in the cessation of
growth and commencement of senescence must be due to the
accumulation of the auto-catalyst substance in the body."2 This
would prove to my mind that the causes of the body's decay
are inherent in the very elements of its growth, and it acts
in precisely the same manner as do waves of ocean or nebulre
and stars-as we shall see later.
It is truly astonishing how identical are the activities of
all manifestations in cosmos, this output and indraw are every-
where the same, everything moves in a harmonious rise and
fall, waves of being and not being, and life itself moves in
periods that are certainly as definite as those of radiation, only
we do not yet possess the secret of its quanta. On this same
analogy, we cannot but presume that the energy we emit
every time we exhale, or the mental energy we send out in
thoughts, travels in waves until it reaches whatever is prepared
to take it in, as the atom catches the quantum of energy. We
know, for instance, that between ourselves and plants ·there
is this give and take-why should it not be so with other
things as well ?
We in the West have not studied these facts very profoundly
as yet, but in India it has been an accepted dogma for many
centuries that life and non-life are only another such a system
of periodicity. At the very root of all their mental training,
and I do not think that anyone will deny that in this they are
t The chemical basis of growth and senescence.
2 In Search of Reality, by J. E. Williams, p. 136.
WAVES AND LIFE 5I
pastmasters, lies the science of breathing : Pranayama.1
To
set the mind free from the bonds of matter, for the realisation
of a spiritual understanding, the body, according to them, bas
to be put into perfect rhythmic relation with its surroundings.
When the pupil is sitting in an upright position, the spinal
column in straight line with the head, the breath has to be
timed to a perfect and harmonious rhythm : count so much
for the intake of breath, so much for the inkeep, so much for
the output, and so much for the emptiness. In the beginning,
4, I6, 8, and 4 seconds are the respective periods ; but the
trained Indian can increase these to minute rates. By these
exercises Indians aim at training their bodies to a condition
of perfect harmony with the rhythm of the universe (which is
comprehensible after what has been sai<hn periodicity) which
harmony leaves the mind undisturbed to escape from the bodily
trammels and flow out into space or delve inwards into the
inner core of Being. Until this perfect rhythm is obtained,
all irregularities make of the body a discord, an encroaching
element of disturbance to the mind.
Taking another branch of life, which confirms the Indian
ideas, mountain climbers testify that on the regularity of their
breathing depends their capacity to maintain their strength in
the highest altitudes.
That Jesus knew this fact and used it, I think can be inferred
without a doubt from that curious little sentence which seems
to have slipped into the description of His curing of the deaf
man : " He took him aside . . . and looking up to Heaven
He sighed, and saith unto him ' Eph-pha-tba,' that is, be
opened.''2 There would be no reason here for His sighing in
the ordinary sense of the word, but, if we admit the science of
pranayama, we know that deep breathing is the most efficacious
way of gathering power, and a sigh or a deep breath are the
same thing from the point of view of the observer. I hope
to prove some day that Jesus must have known all the laws
that govern the art of healing, as well as of much else that is
only now being discovered by us, but I think it enough for
the moment if we understand that a collecting of force by the
healer, followed by its radiation directed on to the sufferer,
1 I use the word "breathing" to express what is inhaled and exhaled in
Pranayama, but I think much more is implied than the ordinary oxygen
and carbon dioxide contents of bodily respiration. If this art of respiration
is to form the foundation of the higher development of the practitioner, he
must undoubtedly inhale and exhale some form of energy unknown so far,
which is perhaps the life essence of the new condition of existence altogether-
of which more anon. 2
Mark vii, 33·
THE WORLD BREATH
may play a vital role in our battles against disease. But of
course until we recognise the importance of our intake and
output of waves, we cannot be expected to learn how to direct
them.
If I have so far succeeded in my attempt to make it clear
that one or another form of periodicity exists throughout
Nature, is it not easily conceivable that we also are trans-
mitting waves, as the Indians affirm, during this rhythmic
breath? By indrawing what they call Prana, that more
subtle form of energy, accompanying the elements that feed
our bodies, we feed our mental or spiritual life ; and in emitting
it, we increase the sum-total of good or evil radiation in the
world. This Prana reaches us in periodic lumps, the amount
and quality of which lie in the control of the trained breather,
as does also their emission, which, like the quanta from atoms,
is proportionate to the intake. So far we are unable to measure
the quantity or gauge the results, but the day will certainly
come when Man, realising these facts, will try to calculate the
difference in the effects of a pranayama taking thirty-two
seconds to every breath, and of that taking two minutes.
There is certainly something here that is a very profound
factor in human evolution.
If it be truly possible, and even necessary, that our bodies
should eventually move in waves of another dimensional order,
to that which they achieve at present, the science of breath
must be the first fact to be considered in any effort to raise
mankind to a higher level of evolution. It is quite conceivable
that in one sense the body does act according to the laws
of atomicity; but although its quanta are still undiscovered,
I see no reason why this should mean that they are undis-
coverable l
There is now a further point, which I admit is harder to
prove, one step more removed from any knowledge we possess,
but which is not for that reason inadmissible. Let us go
back to the spectroscope for a moment. We see on it all
forms of radiation, producing light lines and dark ones alter-
nately. The light ones stand for the output of rays of any kind
from the atom, the dark ones for the pause in between the
emissions, during which the atom is imbibing energy. While
it is imbibing energy there are no means of discovering where
nor what the atom is, it must be since it is there the next
instant, but of both sound and light waves, it must be admitted
that when they are in the trough, so to speak, we cannot
trap them. Wireless waves are the most salient example of
WAVES AND LIFE 53
this fact: when the heterodiningwaves meet the ether waves
in the trough, we have all experienced their habit of cancelling
out altogether. The crest of the wave thus corresponds to
the emission of the fprceJhich it seems to be the p~e of
all f.9!.Ws ill ·ato,EYc lif0o prgj.~ct from themselves, " a pliOton
of luck" Eddington calls it; and the trough is the pause~
perhaps the rest between one activity and the next.
What connection has all this with the human atom we are
investigating? Certainly a very close one. Let us apply some
Giant's spectroscope to ourselves, what do we see upon it ?
Strange to say also lines of action and lines of darkness, lines
which show the human atom spending a wealth of energy
undreamt of by any other atom, and lines which show him
lying dormant, refuelling his fires. Are not our entire lives
made up of intermittent action ? VVe spend during the day
untold riches of energy, both mental and physical, we radiate
them in other words on all around us. Then, during the night,
we store up fresh energy in a condition which not even the
ablest biologist in the whole world can exactly explain. What
happens to our minds or spirits in sleep-no one can tell;
the body continues its functions mechanically, and gets itself
into the necessary rhythmic condition automatically, but in
what relation the mind stands to it or to outside things we
cannot know, because we are unable to register it. All we
know for certain is that it imbibes newstrength from somewhere,
new mind energy, and that it obeys laws entirely unknown
to our day consciousness. Time and space seem non-existent
for it, since there are countless examples of so-called prophetic
dreams, both important and totally unimportant, which make
it appear probable that the sleeping mind registers facts in the
future as easily as those in the past. It seems to me probable
that in the act of imbibing, it also sometimes takes in the
energies that go to making up future facts, just as in the
daytime it emits energies that past experiences have created.
Equally do spatial differences seem in abeyance in the sleeping
mind, for which of us has not known those dreams which por-
trayed a long series of occurrences in space and which on
waking have proved to have taken place both in their cause
and effect during the shot of a gun or the slam of a door or
the call of a person ? And yet the most peculiar fact of it all
is that although time in our sense, as the passage of something
from absolute past into absolute future, does not exist for the
so-called sleeping mind, yet when necessary it will register time
more perfectly than in waking hours : no waking mind can be
54 THE WORLD BREATH
so sure of doing a thing at a fore-ordained time, without
reference to sun or clock, as can the sleeping one.
Further, the sleeping mind has selective capacities: the
mother or nurse sleeping in the room of a sick child will not
be roused by a very loud noise outside, yet will awaken at
the slightest sound from the child. All these facts seem to me
to confirm the view that the mind in sleep is in a state of
absorbing or indrawing waves of some mind force, and that
like the atom its quanta, it takes these waves selectively. It is
not mechanically selective like the atom, for the mind is
certainly of different texture, but selective as mind substance:
it chooses the things that are relevant to it and absorbs them,
whether we be conscious of it or not, and then spends these
for us during the day, whilst we are emitting our white lines
on to the Giant's spectroscope. If once we recognise these
facts, shall we not eventually learn to manipulate our inter-
mittent energies to best advantage? How can we suppose
that colour waves, sound waves, light waves, radiation from
material elements are spread all over the earth on ether waves,
are spread through space from the materials of suns, and yet
that the radiation of .the mind which seems a higher, more
perfect form of energy than any of these, just flashes during
its little day· and dies out, uncarried by any wave ? This
would seem to me a non-sense. Surely the waves of thought
which the mind is continuously emitting are carried and spread
as rigorously according to the laws of their being as are the
waves of light, both obey the same system of intake and out-·
put, both must therefore obtain the same results: progressive
radiation in all directions.
Here again we may turn to the mystics, and especially
Indian ones, to learn something more about these facts. In
Europe mystics have acted by accidental inspiration, in
India they have developed the laws by which to handle the
human mind-atom. Our Western saints have all had periods
of fasting and meditation, when consciousness was unlinked
from the body and this was voluntarily put into a state of
lethargy resembling sleep, and in those moments all mystics
had the experiences which gave them strength and power
to ex~rt influence and teach the truths to which their entire
lives bore witness and which have radiated from their per-
sonalities long after their death. Clearly, from all that has
been said, with the prostration of the body, the mind-or spirit
if you prefer to call it so-may actively draw upon sources
of power that are closed during bodily activity, and, which
WAVES AND LIFE 55
are to be the sources drawn from, must be determinable by
the condition in which living consciousness places the receiver.
We know that the s~t who leads a perfect life is able to draw
forth all that is noblest from some source unattainable to
.ordinarymen, to connect himself with the most highly developed
spirits past and present, because his instrument is attuned to
theirs, and thus able to catch the waves they set in motion;
so· equally must we suppose that the human devil in sleep
catches the waves of others attuned to himself. According to
the laws of atomicity we may only take in what we give·out,
and emitting good all day we shall take in the erg-sees with
predominance of good when come the hours of our intake,
and so, little by little, may we reach the state when we can
tap the very shortest waves, those that come from the heart
of Being. Indian mystics have time and again given evidence
of their knowledge of these facts (although they might laugh
at my describing them in this scientific manner) but beginning
with wielding the breath or Prana to obtain poise and serenity
of body, they have ended by entering tt Samadhi "-world
detached enlightenment, where their spirit can leave the body
and re-enter it at will, being absent even for months. These
facts have lately been proved by scientific investigation into
the nature of the burial or incarceration of men for months at
a time-which is often voluntarily undertaken by Indian
ascetics. According to the laws of radiation, during the
quiescence of the body, such people should set waves ofspiritual
energy in motion which shoul9- spread in all directions and
definitely influence the lives of men-which is in fact what
they profess to do. tt The greatest men in the world have passed
away unknown. The Buddhas and the Christs that we know
are but second-rate heroes in comparison with the greatest
men of whom the world knows nothing. Silently they live
and silently they pass away: and in time their thoughts find
expression in Buddhas or Christs. . . . The highest men do
not seek to get any name or fame from their knowledge . . .
they silently collect true and noble ideas, and others go from
place to place preaching them and working from them....
They are the men who really know the power of thought :
they are sure that even if they go into a cave and close the
door and simply think five true thoughts, and then pass away,
these five thoughts of theirs will live through eternity."1
I feel sure this is a true statement regarding the influence
of thought, for action is an exteriorisation, a contraction of
_...- ____.......,.. ------ "'·'""~...
1 Swami Vivekananda: Karma Yoga, Vol. 1, pp. 103-4. Collected Works.
THE WORLD BREATH
thought into definite material cups ; it is power centralised
for a- purpose ; whereas sending out waves of thought has no
limit and may reach the whole world. If ever a man could
train himself definitely to use his body as an instrument, and
regard himself as an atom radiating forces that must lead _
beyond the material universe-an atom emitting the most
refined of all energies which the physical universe has yet pro-
duced, in which are to be found the first grains of something
that is clearly a new factor in world evolution : the factor
of abstract consciousness, he would then realise that he must
in some way foster and develop this new and tender plant, if
ever he is to have the new birth to which all mystics bear
witness. A birth into a knowledge far vaster and more all-
containing than any we dream of here, into a condition unre-
stricted by material limitations. There can be no doubt,
though, ·that this could only be obtained by conforming to
the laws which govern the universe and by using a knowledge
of them not only to control the forces of Nature, but above all
to control tP.e forces of which man seems to be a first e~pres­
sion. · · Rhythmic movement, that is the ~rst step, and then
rhythmic intake and output of the mind powers, creating
harmonies of the spirit, which may begin by ridding man of
his physical boundaries, and may end by encompassing the
depths beneath and the heavens above.
Jesus said : " There is nothing from without a man that
entering into him can defile him; but those things which come
out of him, those are they that defile a man."1 That is the
secret ; what we put out, that governs the entire process, and
over this we men are the first among living beings to be able
to exercise control. The elements cannot choose what amounts
of ergs or sees shall define their character or whether the ray
they emit shall come out of the inmost heart of the proton
or out of the circles of the electrons, or whether they should
loose an electron altogether; in their case all this seems to be
governed by chance, the chance pick up of photons, or the
chance bombardment by other rays, etc. We human atoms
have made an immense progress on the path, however, for
we can choose what we shall emit and ~hereby prepare our
organisms for the right intake. Let us, however, before all else
learn so to order our periodic activities that we pulsate the
right kind of radiation into space, for the more there is of
that, the more frequently must the right quanta be picked up
-"until the whole shall be leavened."
1 Mark vii, 15.
CHAPTER IV
WAVES AND DEATH
I
FEEL that the time has now come when we cannot
proceed further in tracing the design of the great periodic
scheme of the world without attacking the vexed question
of the nature of death. My reader may object that death is the
one thing about which we cannot claim to know anything at q.ll,
unless we go in for spiritualism-which I have no intention of
doing. As an experience it is unquestionably one-sided, for,
although we all have to pass through it, there are no means of
registering it. .I do not propose to limit my investigations to
the question of human death, however, but shall pursue them
into what is regarded as death in the nature of the world
around us. ,
To begin 'Yith let me try to make clear exactly what I mean
by death~ The usual description would be, extinction of the
individual hitherto known ; but if instead of extinction I use
the words temporary cessation, which could equally apply to
ionised atoms, plants in winter, or man, I think the subject
takes on a somewhat different aspect. This does not imply
eternal life, though, in the ordinary sense of the word-unless
an endless chain of events be regarded as an eternal event.
In any case, we must cease our clamour for continuity, neither
I nor anyone else could claim to have found that, for it exists
nowhere in the universe, and in seeking that, we are very cold
children seeking for our thimble ! I must also admit at once
that I am not in the least concerned with trying to console
those who live in terror of death! That is a question which
everyone must decide for himself. If from what I say some
people can incidentally find hope for their own survival,
so much the better, but as far as I am concerned, I am only
attempting to regard this extremely controversial question from
the point of view of a dispassionate observer. The life of the
universe is at stake-a somewhat greater matter tha.n the life
of a mere individual !
Let us, to begin with, review what we have learnt of what
57
58 THE WORLD BREATH
might be called death in the inanimate world. In our examina-
tion of atomic life we came upon the great law of quanta.
There we found that energy was imbibed and emitted by atoms
in identical quantities, but a study of the stars, where atoms
are continuously being bombarded by electrons or photons,
shows that with every atomic encounter, energy loses something
of its availability, radiation of its power. From extremely
penetrating waves of short wave-lengths and great velocity,
energy emerges at la':it in the long waves of light. The quantum
is ever unchangeable, it is something in "the nature of the
beast " that is altered. Something continues, but not exactly
that which entered the atom: different patterns are woven at
different times, but actual death, in the sense of extinction for
ever, is nowhere to be found. Even on the hypothesis that the
atom gets destroyed-which was long held to be an impossi-
bility, and is only provisionally accepted as that which offers
the best explanation of the tremendous heat in the interiors of
stars, and of the powerful radiation continuously emitted by
them-the radiation which was emitted by the destruction of
that atom still lives. Nowhere can we find an absolute end in
the whole long series of cosmic events. There are different con-
figurations, but each is the heir to the last, as to-day is the heir
of yesterday. And every one of these configurations might be
imagined as causing a light streak on a giant's spectroscope;
they would not make a continuous stream of light but vibrate
in lines of being and non-being.
In elemental formations we find the same phenomena: one
configuration alters gradually into the next, scattering its forces
more and more as it proceeds ; but whilst one element decreases
in energy and finally dies down to nothing, before dissolving,
it has given birth to another, according to the nature of
waves. For example, let us take the life story of one of the
elements on our earth. For every ounce of uranium there once
was on this earth there is now 0•747 oz. of uranium and 0•2I9
of lead, and at the known rate of dissolution of uranium it
has taken 2,ooo,ooo,ooo years to accomplish this result.
The path it travels is interesting: the first product formed by
the dissolution of uranium is a substance half of which decays
in a little less than twenty-four days; this breaks down into
another, whose period oflife is less than a minute and a quarter ;
the length of life of the next substance is estimated at about
2,ooo,ooo years; two different products are then formed,
namely, radium, having a period of 1580 years, and proto-
actinium, whose period is 12,ooo years, the following product
WAVES AND DEATH 59
being actinium. Radium dissolves into the inert gas, Niton,
which has a period of little less than four days, and the end of
both series is '' a form of lead, which so far as we know is not
radjo-active at all."1 But although every one of these succes-
sive forms may be different from the last (what has been said of
uranium equally applies to any radio-active substance), and
although, of course, the products are quite different, the end is
usually lead, yet there is something which connects each stage
with the next and finally builds up a perfect Whole. '' The atom
of action seems to have no coherence in space; it has a unity
which overleaps space."2
According to the law of entropy, whichwill onlyallow an ever-
increasing scattering of forces, but never a building up, this
process should be an entirely one-way action. It seems to me,
however, that this is only true if we regard one set of pheno-
mena as being the sole measure of all things. No one would
attempt to deny that in so far as the physical universe is
concerned, there is a ceaseless scattering of material, but as we
see in everything around us that periods of decrease alternate
with periods of increase, what increases need not necessarily
be identical with what decreased (as was seen in the story of
the break-up of radio-active elements), although it is
obvious that. they are not unrelated ; we may rather presume
that they are both controlled by one law, which decrees the
periods of decrease and increase as well as the resulting effects.
With the death of one kind arises the life of another, out of the
womb of event No. I is born No. 2, then 3,. 4, and so
forth, each of which carries on a modified form of the last, and
every new form will be found to be one step farther on the road
to insubstantiality. Possibly it will be along these lines that we
shall have to seek the re-concentration which entropists at
present deny; but I shall gointo that matter more fully later on.
For the moment I must content myself with referring to the
production oflife on this earth as briefly as possible, it being the
supreme example on earth of my theories. Jeans says:" The
planets are the only places we know of where life can exist.
The stars are too hot; their atoms are broken up by intense
heat. Nebulre are in every way unsuitable, even if cool, solid
bodies exist in them they would probably be so drenched with
highly penetrating radiation as to render life impossible."3
For the birth of life a special type of matter is required, and
here we come to the most thrilling part of the whole story:
" Primeval matter must go on transforming itself into radiation
1 A.B.C., p. 121. 2 N.P.W., p. xss. 3
Eos, p. 85.
6o THE WORLD BREATH
for millions of millions of years to produce an infinitesimal
amount of the inert ash on which life can exist,"1 and we now
know that our earth spent nearly 2,ooo,ooo,ooo years in
so transforming herself, before she was cool enough, or dead
enough, to carry mankind! If further we remember that,
according to the law of entropy, all atoms that compose stars
or elements must inevitably thus radiate themselves to ashes
in course of time, it becomes not merely a possible accident but
a most probable event, cc for inanimate matter to produce life
in due course when the environment is suitable." We may,
therefore, conclude that the potentiality of life-production
increases in direct ratio to the decrease of material bodies,
andli!e then be~()mes Hie ot~er siQ.e ofa·gr~9-ter P.iifofopE9sites
than any other in the whole universe. But without the final
death of the active radiant matter into ash this new form of
substance would never have been born.
Let us now consider this theory in relation to our common
experience on earth, and we shall see that it holds good in
relation to the whole world around us. What resemblance is
there between the oak and the acorn, between man and the
spermatozoa ? Yet the great tree in its autumnal death pro-
duces the little acorn that shall rise to another life ; man dies
and leaves the life of the new generation. Even in the mental
life of mankind is it not common knowledge that in order
that any great idea should obtain footing thousands have to
lay down their lives? Christianity and Islam are glaring
examples of this fact. Wherever we tum we see that for every-
thing that exists something had to lay down its life, one thing
rises as the other sinks, there is one long alternation of so-called
life and death, and there can be no hesitation in saying that our
law of periodicity manifests in everything throughout the whole
world. Be it in large things or in small, over a long period or a
short one, this is immaterial, the main thing to realise is, that
nothing can escape alternate action and reaction, and if life be
one half of an action of this sort, then must death also play its
part in the evolution of the whole, and it is no more an end,
but becomes a link in a chain. And with this fact we reach the
end I have had in view, the gist of the argument.
Among the things that surround us we find not only that the
seed must fall to the ground and die in order to give birth to life,
but that the gestation of the new life must take place in a
darkness which we often regard as death-buried in the earth,
for instance. In such darkness life may be preserved for
1
Eos, p. 73·
WAVES AND DEATH 6I
thousands of years, as witness the seeds found in the tombs of
the Pharaohs of Egypt, or the olive tree, which when dead and
cut down springs again from the bottom. But besides these
more special cases, there is the simple one of the yearly " death "
of Nature: without the autumnal death, the winter's rest,
we could never hope for spring. These are all manifestations of
a pulsating or periodic activity. Are these pulsations perhaps
quanta of life,_the expansion and contraction of the atom on a
larger scale? It certainly appears to be so. In every case there
is a very palpable hiatus between one life and the next, the
period of darkness, may this not also occur in the life of man?
If it does, we may rest assured that we have made a correct
diagnosis of the evolutionary movement in the universe and
of the role of" Death, as the womb which carries the seed of
new life.
Which brings us back to our world principle of Periodicity :
is it not perfectly clear that it woulP. be sheer madness to hope
to fulfil our part in just one flash of radiation, which a single
life may be regarded to be, whereas everything in the whole
universe works by long periods of waves ? If we consider human
lives as atoms, absorbing and emitting mind energy, which
makes of them something far more perfect and more important
than atoms-which merely emit a or f3 or 'Y rays-these lives
fit perfectly into the scheme of the universe. We are different
to Nature because we have in us higher forces, but we are also
part of her, and there is no need to regard ourselves as abnor-
malities. Nature sleeps or dies part of the year, and each year
lives again. It may be argued that the same flowers or the same
leaves never live again. No, but the tree does not start afresh:
it puts forth new leaves on the stem that it grew the year before,
the fresh crop lay in the seed which the flower dropped into the
earth-its new life is made up of what the old threw out before
it died. This is what the Indians mean when they talk of" the
wheel of re-birth.,
All Asia's millions east of Persia hold to the belief that we
are bound to a wheel of birth and re-birth in matter-until we
can free ourselves. Life and death have been to them, ever since
we have any trace of their religious ideas, merely what the
quantum theory in relation to atoms is to us. Jeans says:" By
prohibiting any emission of radiation except in complete
quanta, and by prohibiting any emission at all when there are
no quanta available for dissipation, the quantum theory suc-
ceeds in keeping the universe in existence as a going concern."1
1 Universe Around Us, p. 132.
62 THE WORLD BREATH
Applying this to the life of men we find many things explained
that before seemed incomprehensible. Why should so many
young people die whose lives seem full of promise, whilst old
and apparently useless ones are left alive, is a question that has
long troubled mankind-why is it that so often that occurs
which was so well described in The Bridge of San Luis Rey :1
only certain people happen to be at a certain spot at a fatal
moment, and everyone asks why they were picked out from
among the thousands that might have been there ? Death seems
to be a matter not of choice but of inexorable necessity : one
person is ill and has everything done for him that human brain
can think of, and yet he dies, whilst another has a far more
serious illness without the nieans to obtain the necessary
relief which science might afford, and yet he recovers.
If to all these facts we apply the human quantum theory~
they become perfectly plain. Until there are the complete
quanta "available for dissipation" life continues ; but whilst
one may take three score years and ten to collect a" complete
quantum," another may have collected his necessary quantum
in early youth, and then radiates away, whilst many a small
child may not have had the right quantum, and therefore goes
on at once.
Further, the Indian explains that this karma which goes on
from birth to birth is not picked up indiscriminately but can
only be picked up when the right conditions prevail, that is,
when I have accumulated my quantum of karma in this life
and attained a certain stage, good or bad, at death I throw
out this karma I have made for myself, and this will travel on in
space until it meets with the conditions that fit it ; in the
language of wireless waves, until it meets that which is capable
of heterodyning the carrier waves which I sent out. Had the
ancient Indian Rishis known of radiation and ether waves
they might have done what I am doing now : applying the rUles
of one system to the other, the similarity of the two is so extra-
ordinary. Seeing that they, like we, were studying the science
of Life, and came to the same results in their observation of men
as we have in ours of the physical world; and as there can be
no doubt that they in their line were adepts as great as scientists
are in ours, we can but assume that both we and they have run
up against something that is absolutely fundamental to the
existence of the universe.
Next to this picture of reincarnation handed down by Indian
adepts for over 2000 years, I would like to place the new scien-
Thornton Wilder.
WAVES AND DEATH
tific explanation of radiation from the stars, for I think Indian
and scientist should meet here on common ground, the ideas
of the one explain those of the other. Eddington describes the
path of waves of radiation as they are ejected from the hot
centres of the stars, in terms that hold good for the path
of all energy throughout the universe, and his words can
serve as the text for all I have to say on the subject
of the life and death of man. " The atoms and electrons for
all their hurry never get anywhere ; they only change places.
The ether waves are the only part of the population which
accomplish anything permanent. Although apparently darting
in all directions indiscriminately, they do on an average make
slow progress outwards (from the centre of the star). There is
no outward progress of the atoms and electrons, gravitation
sees to that. But slowly the encaged ether waves leap outwards
as through a sieve. An ether wave hurries from one atom to
another, forwards, backwards, now absorbed, now flung out
again in a new direction, losing its identity, but living again in
its successor. With any luck it will in no unduly long time (ten
thousand to ten million years, according to the mass of the star)
find itself near the boundary of the star. It changes at the
lower temperature from X-rays to light rays, being altered a
little at each rebirth. At last it is so near the boundary that
it can dart outside and travel forward in peace."1 If these
facts are placed side by side with what I have been saying
about the Indian belief in reincarnation, we can get a very clear
idea of the path and destiny of human life. Can we not easily
conceive it possible that the human spirit is just such a moving
ether wave, bearing its quantum of energy," losing its identity
and living again in its successor" ; altering a little at each
rebirth? We cannot allow ourselves to be biassed in our judg-
ment of this vital matter by the obstinacy with which Euro-
peans cling to their personalities, any more than we should allow
ourselves to be influenced in our scientific estimates by anyone
who insisted on asserting that unless one could watch the
photon or electron all the way from one atom to another,
it could not be said to exist! We should be doing something
which Eddington says " does not correspond to anything in
nature" in attributing to this particle of energy we call spirit,
a kind of determinacy which would make it unalterable for ever.
If further our mind stuff be " now absorbed and now flung out
again," altering a little at each rebirth, changing in some lower
condition of life from the un-mind-ful animal to the conscious
1 St. & At., p. 27.
THE WORLD BREATH
human being-palreontologists regard mammalian life as the
thirdterrestrial dynasty-is homosapiens notpossiblythefourth,
the stage when the life-ether-wave changes from X-rays to
light rays? I am here undeniably treading on very precarious
ground, and in all probability the hair on the heads of both
priests and scientists will rise in horror over my inferences.
That cannot be helped, however ; I can but express what I
not only believe, but also see as the future religion of humanity.
I must refer to one last point in atomic theories, which
may bring us enlightenment with regard to the true interpreta-
tion of human life. We have considered electrons and ether
waves, what about the famous particle of matter, how does it
stand in relation to ourselves ? I think we may accept it as
practically certain that we are not corpuscles of matter at all
but merely waves of something. Speaking on the subject six
years ago, Eddington said: "There does seem to be serious
evidence that in the scattering of electrons by atoms phenomena
occur which would not be produced according to the usual
theory that electrons are purely corpuscular.... Long ago such
phenomena ruled out all purely corpuscular theories of light ;
perhaps to-day we are :finding similar phenomena which will
rule out all purely corpuscular theories of matter."1 And
four years later that event seems appreciably closer when we
consider Jeans' description of matter and radiation as "two
kinds of waves-a kind which goes round and round in circles,
and a kind which travels in a straight line."2 In relation to
human atoms, we might conceivably allow that our physical
bodies may be of the first kind, our mental, or conscious power
of the second.
If, then, we accept everything from radiation to man as a
system of waves (of course I do not mean waves in a material
sense), we can certainly feel ourselves linked up with the entire
universe, for in the very nature of waves lies the curious char-
acteristic that they are interrelated with everything around
them: there is not a single wave in the ocean that is not in-
fluenced by the attraction of the moon, which in its turn takes
its little place in the movement of the solar system ; this in its
turn is guided by the gravitational forces in the galactic
universe, and these movements are one and all subject to what
is now regarded as the texture of space itself, which causes all
things in it to "curve and wriggle about among its hills and
valleys ''3-waves even here !
1 N.P.W., p. 202. 2 Mys. Un., p. 77·
3 Jeans: Henry Sidgwick Mem. Lect., November 26, 1932.
WAVES AND DEATH
Nor does any wave in this universal sea exist without in-
fluencing every other, for even when a wave of energy breaks
on the shores of material " events," its power is not stayed,
for are not these being continually built up or eroded by waves
of energy (or photons), and ultimately their fate is decided
thereby. If even the last buhyark of matter, namely elec-
trons, are also nothing but wave phenomena, we must un-
doubtedly include ourselves in this vast periodic motion, and
there is no better way of expressing this new conception of
living beings than as quanta of some hitherto unregistered form
of energy, moving in waves of being and not-being. I see our
lives as pulsations of animate quanta inhaled by the physical-
body-atom for a time, therein collecting the impetus that shall
eventually throw them forward on their journey, until in the
final" last death," when matter can dissolve no further, there
will come the moment when the animate energy will dart out-
side the entirematerial universe and sinkinto Infinity unlimited.
E
CHAPTER V
WAVES AND CIVILISATION
I
I
N attempting to draw a picture of the Law of Periodicity,
I have so far described its course through the realms of
physics and the phenomena of life, but the story of man
as he lives on earth has not yet been considered from this
point of view. The next question that arises is undoubtedly:
in how far does the Law of Periodicity enter into the existence
of mankind ? is there any means of regarding our race from
the standpoint of the Giant with the spectroscope, and of
seeing humanity as the white and dark stripes, or are we unable
to regard ourselves from so "outside" a point of view? If
ever the Law of Periodicity is to be brought home to man how-
ever, and the knowledge of its existence affect his daily life,it will
have to be proved that the course of his existence is ruled by
it as is everything else in the universe.
In studying the life history of mankind, we can undoubtedly
discover the rise and fall of ripples on the face of the ocean :
in the ebb and flow of civilisations for instance. Did not
Chaldea, Egypt, China, Greece and Rome, to take a few
examples out of many, rise from small insignificant people to
world power, each in their time, and sink again to nothing?
And as each nation in turn rose to power, was not its range
of influence and its domain greater and more widespread at
the zenith than was that of the last ? But this rise and fall,
this periodic formation in the structure of mankind, has never
been studied as such, therefore, as I consider this form of
periodicity as important as any other, I should like to point
out the main lines of history regarded from this aspect so as
to enable my readers to pursue studies in this direction for
themselves.
If we consider the history of a race or a nation, as a whole,
we shall very quickly discover a concentration and dissipa-
tion of energy as in all other universal phenomena ; even
though it be of a different nature, the Law of Periodicity will
66
WAVES AND CIVILISATION
connect it up with all the rest. And, in studying the rise
and fall of nations from the periodic point of view, it will be
necessary to make clear the causes and effects of these waves,
how and why they arise, what produces their decline into the
trough. I shall attempt to consider the history of mankind
as I did that of atoms, whence it should appear to our eyes as
the evolutionary process of some new form of radiation, shall
we say the emission of 8 rays?
Fortunately historical research has developed to such a
nicety in these times that we are almost able to take a God's
eye-view of any past period, and reconstruct an epoch covering
hundreds of years, as if it were a period of our own lives.
Time, in this case, is merely as long or as short as we choose
to consider it. The 300,000 years of the life of mankind
measured by the duration of one's man's life is very long,
measured by the zooo million years of earth life, it becomes
quite short. In any case, when its span becomes part of a
universal law, it is something to be accepted, not questioned:
the occurrence in space-time carries its own measure, inherent
in its nature of occurrence. Further, waves of ocean, of ether,
of radiation, each have their own spans, i.e. periods and
frequencies, which no man may attempt to direct or modify, all
that can be done is to note them and give the mathematical
formula for the various species, and when we find in human
civilisations a regular rise and fall we can but conclude that
they belong to the same category of phenomena.
The waves in civilisations have not yet received the atten-
tion of mathematicians however, perhaps because they have
not been regarded as serious waves so far, but merely as
theoretical ones, but if once we can bring ourselves to regard
human group phenomena as a form of radiation which we may
call life radiation, as opposed to the light radiation of all
inorganic matter-we may find that here the importance of
calculating the wave length is of even greater value than is
that of calculating that of any other wave in creation. For
here our free wills might eventually alter the course of evolu-
tion and speed it up, with incalculable consequences to the
destiny of mankind.
In order to understand the periodic rises and falls in the
story of nations let us cast a cursory glance over the course
of history from the earliest times until to-day. It is now a
recognised fact, I think, that civilisations have run in waves
over the face of the earth, but no one has ever attempted to
draw statistics as to the length of time of the increase and
68 THE WORLD BREATH
decline of nations. I do not think there is much doubt,
however, that there is here some periodic law which we have
accepted blindly. Certainly all nations have "fallen'' from
the same causes : effeteness born of so-called over civilisation ;
softness born of ease and luxury in the governing classes, of
lack of incentive to work in the labouring ones. Upon which
follows a wave of conquest by less civilised people, steeled by
lives of struggle, battle, hardship of every description, by
people we consider of a lower order but who are, from a
physical point of view, a more virile, tougher -animal, more
fit to carry on the race. And the cause of the conquest has ever
been the same : the glamour of riches and ease, the power and
grandeur of the civilised have been the bait that caught the
"barbarians," together with the need for expansion. In these
facts, if we study them more closely, we shall undoubtedly
find the manifestation of a law which controls the human race
and to which the individual pays his contribution, without
realising that his actions are not merely the immediate reactions
to time and place, but contributions to the ultimate function
of his kind.
In order to appraise this function at its proper value, we
must observe mankind over a long period, and watch the
course of what I may call a complete event in the motion of
racial waves, just as we have attempted to do in the scientific
world. With men as with atoms, it is not on the uncertain
activities of individuals that we may test our theories, but on
the laws of averages. If we can watch a certain ebb and flow
in the past life of the race, depending on certain conditions
which arise again and again, and lead to certain identical con-
clusions, we may feel fairly certain that when we observe these
conditions forming once more, they will inevitably in the
course of time, lead to the same results. The same and yet
not quite the same : the earth turns round the sun in the
course of a year, but when it has reached the first of January
once more, the solar system has moved on its course and the sun
is not at the same spot as it was last year. Something alters
every time as a race makes a new beginning, but unerringly
the rise and fall of civilisations carry the tide of humanity
onwards to its predestined end.
To return to our simile of the sea, we may watch waves
rise and fall in a steady flow, but to an observer at a distance,
there is at the same time an advance, even though the man
floating on it would realise nothing thereof. And as the waves
approach the shore, there is less and less difference between
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 6g
crest and trough, and their periods follow upon one another
more and more rapidly. In the pace of the tides of men we
may observe identical phenomena. Whereas once, the course
from trough to trough took very nearly a thousand years,
now it may take six to seven hundred, and in some future time,
the rises and falls may follow qne anoth'3r in such quick
successions, that the heights and'. depths will hardly be dis-
tinguishable-but that day is yet far distant, the condition of
all mankind must have evolved into a state as yet undreamed
of, before that occurs !
Our only chance of understanding these things properly is
to seat ourselves metaphorically on a high mountain, and from
thence to look down at the life of mankind : from that vantage
point we must pick up the course of some particular wave
and study its progress from first to last. Mter that we shall
be able to recognise the symptoms of the same phenomena
in other waves, and reconstruct their past and predict their
future paths. And thus shall we follow the rises and falls in
human waves, that make up the flow and ebb of the entire
race as such, which must finally end in the trough of a dead
race and the start of a new wave beyond tpis human one.
But we must not mistake ripples on the waves for the main
stream-of course here as everywhere there are small ups and
downs-but the broad main stream invariably affects not one
nation alone but the whole world of its time. It is like a spiral
nebula, its influence spreads in ever wider and wider circles
until it reaches a point of supreme power, then at the peri-
pheries it begins to form the small independent lumps that
weaken the central construction, and undermine the whole
fabric, which will then sink back into disorganisation and
become the prey to chaos whilst the wave of might and power
rises elsewhere.
Nothing valuable is to be learnt from generalisations,
however, facts can only be ascertained by working from the
particular to the universal, for which reason I should suggest
that my reader takes the story of some one civilisation-the
Roman for instance-and studies it solely from the point of
view of a periodic process. But whilst concentrating on the
story of one great people, it should always be born in mind
that this particular racial experience is in no way unique,
it must in no sense be regarded as something peculiar to itself;
were that so, it could never become an example of the
Law of Periodicity. If we pick out the history of Rome, we
must never lose sight of the possibility of discovering the same
70 THE WORLD BREATH
forces, acting along the same lines in the history of China, or
of Egypt, or of Great Britain for instance; only by this means
can the story of the rise and fall of any one civilisation exemplify
a universal process acting in human affairs. Regarded in this
way, and applying scientific methods to the study of history,
I think that in time it should be possible to discover in this
science not only a kind of archreological interest, but indica-
tions of the present and future course of events in our present
civilisations, and to diagnose the symptoms of their rises and
declines. The paths of comets can be foretold hundreds of
years in advance, there is only the slightest possibility of any
alteration in their courses. The process I am investigating is,
possibly, equally unalterable ; I feel convinced in fact that were
we but sufficiently enlightened, we should be able to predict
historical evolution with the same measure of precision.
I am no historian and cannot pretend to write history, but,
in order to facilitate my readers' research into historical
periodicity, I should like to give a few brief notions of the salient
points of any history, say the Roman, visualised from the point
of view of my new science, in order that they may be easily
recognisable in further research into these matters, and form
a definite starting point.
nt
Tradition represents Rome in the beginning as a small
hill town consisting of a few square miles of territory at deadly
feud with its nearest neighbours, and ruled by kings that were
nothing better than the latter day robber barons of the north.
But when Rome became an organised Republic, at the begin-
ning of the sixth century B.c., there began a conflict, inherent
in the nature of the growth process, which carried her to fame
and world dominion, namely, that between patricians and
plebeians, which same conflict is plainly discernible later, in
the history of England, the signing of the Magna Charta being
the first triumph of our " plebeians." The struggle between
these two great parties was in reality a struggle to obtain con-
trol of the state, and as one faction after the other attained
supreme power, its claims thereto lay in making the state
ever more glorious and prosperous, either through force of arms
or laws, and every success gained by the one or the other
meant so much greater fame or prosperity for the nation,
1 For all the historical facts on which this section is based I am indebted
to the article on "Ancient Roman History" by Henry Stuart Jones in the
Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. xiii.
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 7I
made -the wave of power mount higher. But what is charac-
teristic of this and all wave processes is, that across the surface
of the greater wave there are small rises and falls, ripples
which help to pile up the main structure, and in the four hun-
dred years after we first trace her history, Rome went through
a series of successes and failures, increase followed by decrease
of power, the enemy at her walls at one moment, she spreading
into Asia Minor the next-only the triumphs were always more
definite, more significant than the defeats, and out of her
failures Rome learnt how she might rise greater and stronger
than before. It is one of the most interesting facts in the rise
of all great civilisations that they always seem to recJI-}§r :P__oU:r
mi~x ·sauter, which is perhaps the characteristic that most
distinguisnes them from the smaller unimportant national
waves, which we may regard as mere ripples on the surface
of the general tide of mankind.
In the course of all her rises and falls during those :first four
centuries, Rome's power steadily increased, however, until
:finally she made herself undisputed mistress of Italy, and here
it is essential to remember (for we may :find a parallel in the
construction of other civilisations) that her rule both over
Italy and later over the countries of the Mediterranean, was
not the absolute rule of conqueror over conquered, but
remained, in form at least, a confederacy under Roman pro-
tection. The Italians were not the subjectsout the "allies
and friends" of the Roman people. We have examples of
the same relations among the peoples of the British Empire
to-day.
Having secured the Italian peninsula, the Roman arms
spread further afield, and from the moment when she finally
crushed Carthage, her most serious rival, in 204 B.c., Rome's
control of both eastern and western Mediterranean was assured.
From this point to the culmination of her power on the acces-
sion of Julius Cresar, about two hundred years later, the form
of government in Rome altered completely, according as the
necessity arose; :first a Republic, then rule by the Senate-
much as in the United States to-day-this in its tum was super-
ceded by that of conquering generals, until one, greater than
the rest, took the power into his own hands and made himself
supreme ruler of the Roman world.
The perpetual Dictatorship which Cresar arrogated to him-
self after his crowning victory of Munda in 45 B.c. was a con-
tradiction in terms, and a repudiation of the constitutional
government, which had made Rome great; from the moment
72 THE WORLD BREATH
I
when he seized the treasury on his triumphal entry into Rome
till the day of his death, he recognised no other authority
throughout the Empire, and the title of " Imperator " which
he adopted was intended to express the absolute and un-
limited nature of the imperium he claimed, although he did
not actually abrogate the old constitution. Cresar, like his
successors, professed to hold his authority by the will of the
people, but Senate, Assembly and magistrates were in reality
all subordinated to the paramount authority of the Dictator
(is not Rome to-day retracing her footsteps?) and this sub-
ordination was more complete under the rule of Cresar than
even under that of Augustus. It seems unquestionable to my
mind, that Cresar's reign was the culminating point in the wave
of Roman civilisation. The only reign that might dispute
this claim is that of Augustus. But Augustus merely followed
where Cresar led the way, he was a successor, and, however
great, such can never be the same as the originators of new
orders. On the day when Cresar assumed the crown of laurel
in the sacrosanctity of Rome herself, he undoubtedly carried
Roman history to its supreme climax, and thereby closed her
first period in a halo of power and splendour such as had
never been known to that day.
But apart from the wave of Roman history, even as a man,
Cresar stands as one of the high lights in the evolution of man-
kind, he is undoubtedly one of the greatest figures the world
has known, a genius whose influence is felt even to this day.
He stands in the eyes of all, past and present, as the most
perfect type of all the virtues of ancient Rome, he is in a sense
the Emperor of Emperors. Logic may claim that Augustus
was a wiser ruler, that the Empire rose to greater prosperity
in his reign-there are undoubtedly many reasons for pre-
ferring him; but our eyes will always turn to Cresar, and our
hearts give him their allegiance. Jie seems to have united
in himself all that is most significant in the Rome that pre-
ceded and produced him, and most glorious in that which
followed after. On the one hand he was a great soldier, a
conqueror, a leader of men, the prototype of all that Rome
had stood for up to that time; he certainly brought the wave
of conquest to its crest. But on the other hand when he
assumed absolute power, he put an end, once and for all, to
the conditions that had been the foundations of Rome's
greatness, and altered the aspect of the Roman world. He
thus undoubtedly opened the way to one of the grandest
civilisations mankind has ever known, for Rome henceforth
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 73
dominated the world by right of being the most enlightened
nation of her time. But as no wave may remain at its crest
for more than a breathing space, it is clear that in starting
her on this new path, Cresar had made Rome take her first
step on the path that must one day, as yet far off, end in the
trough. He was undoubtedly both an end and a beginning,
he was the old and the new world in one-and died for his
idea. Had he been content with a Triumvirate, or with pro-
consular power, he would have been one among many great
Romans, but his reign would not have been the unequalled
moment that it was in world history. Cresar dared break with
all tradition and rise to supreme and solitary heights, and even
though his triumph ended in an untimely death, Rome was
changed once and for ever-the hour-glass had turned. But
this is only as it should be, if history enters the ranks of
periodic functions ! And as this question was the main reason
of my enquiry, I think it is now time to detach myself from
the story of Rome as a nation, and, standing outside of
her national aspect, regard all we have learnt so far from
the point of view of its eventual conformity to the Law of
Periodicity.
In so doing, what do we perceive? A wave of power,
beginning with the ripple of a small hill town, like so many
in Italy to-day, growing ever higher and spreading itself
from century to century in ever wider circles till it finally
encompasses the whole civilisation of its day, sweeping up
everything around it into the mountainous wave of its greatness;
whilst the continuous competition for supremacy, be it political
or national, steels its people in the fires of battle and brings
out what is best and fittest for the progress of the race. And
we watch not only this great breaker rising steadily, but we
also see little waves rising and falling across its surface: rise,
then fall with the sack of Rome by the Gauls ; rise, then fall
in the second Punic war; rise and then fall with Sulla, etc.,
but Romans like Britons lat~r, always rose when they seemed
most annihilated, to efforts that carried them to ever greater
heights. Are these not, both in. g.Leat and small, clear examples
of the Law of Periodicity ? It i~ truly one of the grandest
spectacles one can witness-it is, in its way, as grand as the
rise and decline of stars, to see this rise of the wave of humanity
from notging to woyd dom_!!rion in th~ course of five hundred
ye~s : a wave that takes tnat long to nse, counted by the time
measure of human lives, truly gives us, by its homogenity
and irrevocableness, a sense of mankind's being caught in the
74 THE WORLD BREATH
wheel of a law which every individual act does but obey and
feed at the same time.
But there is another aspect of this movement which, with
our knowledge of the working of the Periodic Law, we shall
immediately recognise. There are in the forward motions of the
civilisation wave two coincident actions to be observed: the
centrifugal and the centripetal. Whilst on the one hand we
watch the wave spreading over wider and wider territory,
gathering up all the adjacent nations in its stride, and sweeping
outwards in ever-wider circles-at the same time the forces
are converging at the centre until, from the many: Senate,
Tribunes, Magistrates, Assembly, there is first a concentration
of power in the hands of the Senate, later three men rule alone,
and :finally comes the supreme assumption of power by the one.
Thefirst movement correspondstothat ofentropy,thescattering,
characteristic of all wave motions; the second is the concentric
building-up, incidental to all growth, and carried by the current
of these two actions we attain the crest of the wave. The rest
is easily anticipated ; if we remember how our Law worked in
its relation to the physical world, and observe how true it has
been to itself all through this fresh instance of its action, we
cannot doubt but that it will continue to be so to the end. A few
seconds, a few years, a few light-years, a few ten millionths of
seconds, it is all the same, the wave pauses at its crest for what
seems to us various lengths of time, but for what is in reality
only the pause in itself, before it rolls over and sinks into the
trough. We shall now follow this wave on its second stage:
that of decline.
In order to understand the forces that broke Rome's colossal
organism, and sent it on its journey of decay, which decay seems
an impossibility when considering its greatness under Cresar,
I shall be obliged to tum back for a moment. No periodic
movement starts with a burst at any particular instant, as we
must realise by now.< The seeds of one period are always in-
/ herent in the nature of the last, even though latent, but
when time and circumstances are ripe they come to fruition.
It is clear therefore ·that the seeds which eventually caused
Rome's downfall must have been planted several centuries
before she reached her prime.
.During the two last centuries of the rising wave, whilst
Rome was being transformed from a,republic into an empire,
the structure and composition of Roman society had completely
altered. Until this time, Roman victories had been largely
due to the powerful conservative forces by which her institu-
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 75
tions were preserved from decay. Respect for the mos majorum,
or ancestral custom, imposed an effective check on the desire
for innovation. Though personal religion in the deeper sense
was foreign to the Roman temperament, there was a genuine
belief in the gods, on whose favour depended the greatness of
Rome. Above all, the healthy moral traditions of early Rome
were maintained by the discipline of the family resting on the
supreme authority of the father-the patria potestas-and the
powerful influence of the mother. Finally the institution of
the censorship, backed as it was by the force of public opinion,
provided a healthy deterrent to any deviation from the accepted
standard of morals. But all this was changed by the influence
of Greek civilisation with which Rome first came into contact
in the third century B.C. through Magna Grecia. At first the
results of this contact with the older and more brilliant culture
of Hellas were on the whole good. But at the same time the
"new learning" was a disturbing and unsettling influence.
The Roman citizen was confronted with new doctrines in
politics and religion, under the influence of which the tradi-
ditional fabric embodied in the mos majorum fell to pieces: a
revolt set in against the discipline and self-control imposed on
all Romans until that time, and a craving for individual advan-
tages and distinctions took their place. The Roman nobles
learnt the art of rhetoric, and the Roman capitalists the art of
money-making from the Greeks, and both took full advantage
of their new knowledge. Among the lower classes, contact with
foreign slaves and freed men, with foreign worships and foreign
vices, produced a love of novelty which no legislation could
check. Even among the women there were symptoms of revolt
against the older order, which showed itself in a growing free-
dom of manners, and impatience of control, the marriage tie
was relaxed, and the respect for mother and wife, which had
been so powerful a factor of the Roman standard of morals, was
grievously diminished. :ijad _!!.Qt the public m«::)J;als b~~P:-~der­
m!!led by all these influences the-republican system would
surely have been able to put up a far stronger resistance to
political revolution than it did.
Further, the small landowners, who, in the history of all
countries, represent the most stable and conservative part of
any community, were sinking deeper and deeper into the mire
under the pressure of accumulated difficulties. The Hannibalic
wars had laid waste their fields and thinned their numbers;
the heavy burden of military service pressed ruinously upon
them ; and in addition they were called, upon to compete with
THE WORLD BREATH
the foreign com imported from beyond the seas, and with the
foreign slave labour purchased by the capital of wealthier men.
Farming became unprofitable, and the hard, laborious life,
with its scanty returns, was thrown into darker relief when
compared with the stirring life of the camps and the frequent
largesses and gay spectacles in the large towns. In writing these
words it seems to me that if I substituted the word " Roman "
for that of " British " Empire, and made some comments on
the conditions prevailing in England to-day, I could not express
it more truthfully than in the above remarks-and I feel con-
vinced that the same causes must inevitably produce the same
results, or rather, be the symptoms of the same period in the
course of this wave.
Once established, however, the Roman emperors made
every effort to stem the tide by blinding themselves and
the town populace to the facts outside, and by attempt-
i~g to invest Cresarianism with the mantle of deity,
which lent it the appearance of continuity and eternal
stability. This could not arrest the coming cataclysm for
very long, however, and in the second century A.D. the first
signs of the coming decay became perceptible to all. When
Hadrian, for the first time in Roman history, surrendered
conquered territory, preferring a less scattered and more
controllable domain, around which he constructed a system of
permanent limites, or frontier fortifications, these fortifications
were more than mere land limites-so long as Rome was in-
creasing, fighting, growing, she never knew of any frontiers
that could arrest her, never needed any fortifications to mark
her boundaries, knowing that these were only temporary until
she should push them a few square miles further forward. Once
the Romans recognised the necessity of fortifying what they
possessed, it meant that they knew they could spread no farther,
and even doubted the capacity of their arms to defend what
they already had. The tide had turned_definitely and for ever!
And, in fact, henceforward Rome's wars were no more offensive,
but merely defensive-a losing battle, as it eventually proved.
There are besides this many other signs of growing weakness
in these peaceful reigns of the Antonians. In this period the
centralisation of authority in the hands of the princes was
completed; the Senate ceased to be an instrument of govern-
ment and became an Imperial peerage ; the restricted sphere of
administration left by Augustus to the old magistracies was still
further narrowed. All these changes, although in some degree
beneficial, brought the attendant evils of excessive centralisa-
tion. Although thi~ system is not injurious in the hands of
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 77
vigorous rulers, it proves fatal under men who have lost the
ancient virility of the race in the inactivity of a life of pomp
and splendour. The reforms of Augustus had given free
play to powers still fresh and vigorous-the ceaseless labours of
Hadrian were mainly directed to husbanding such strength as
still remained. Among the symptoms of incipient decline were
the growing depopulation, especially of the central districts of
the Empire, the constantfinancial difficulties,thedeteriorationin
the character of local government, and the increasing reluctance
exhibited in all classes to undertake the now onerous burden of
municipal office. Besides this, from all parts of this vast Empire
which contained so many heterogenous elements, men of all
kinds and races flocked to the centre, and settled in Rome,
bringing with them their traditions and customs, which even-
tually fused with those of the city of their adoption. This
cosmopolitan society was composed of so many discordant ele-
ments, that a common patriotism was hard to foster, and doubly..
hard when the autocratic system of government prevented
men from aspiring to that true political distinction which is
only attainable in a self-governing community. The organs of
civic life slowly became atrophied, political interest died out
and the whole burden of administration as well as of defence
fell upon the shoulders of a bureaucracy which proved unequal
to the task.
As for the question of morals, it is difficult to make any
assertion in this respect with regard to a nation, but it is certain
that the thirst for amusements-games, shows, races-under-
mined the erstwhile strict adherence to duty, the rigid self-
discipline which had made Rome and Romans great ; instead,
a general moral laxity set in, and religion lapsed into a worship
of Power, with a large admixture of mere superstition. These
conditions wereundoubtedly fosteredby the policyof despotism,
which always aims at securing cheap popularity with the pro-
letariat. At the same time, we know that underneath that
glittering surface a relig~ous movement was brewing, brought
from the East by foreign merchants and slaves, which, although
still of little consequence, was undoubtedly one of the forces
working for the weakening and disintegration of the Empire;
it was indeed to prove itself so powerful a force, that eventually
it vanquished emperors and warriors, and undermined the whole
structure of the Roman world. Thus did this great material
wave end in the emission of an insubstantial power of the spirit,
as the atom ends in the emission of radiation-another proof
of its pertaining to the realm of waves!
THE WORLD BREATH
It took the Roman Republic nearly five hundred years to
reach her zenith, and from the periodic point of view it is in-
teresting to note that from crest to trough there was a period of
an almost identical length of time; and the sinking movement
exhibits the same characteristics as the rise : under one general
movement of decline there were small ripples of rises and falls
on the surface. Rise under Marcus Aurelius, for instance,
decline during nearly a hundred years of chaos and disorder
after his death, during which the Alemanni, Franks and Goths
invaded her territories ; and although Rome rallied under
Gallienus' (260-268) successors and regained much of her lost
territory, the preceding storms had told with fatal effect upon
the general condition of the Empire. The old established culture
and civilisation oftheMediterraneanworldwasrapidlycomingto
an end, and the mixture of barbaric rudeness with Oriental
pomp and luxury which marked the courts of even the better
emperors, such as Aurelian, was typical of the general deteriora-
tion. His reign was only one of the rises that seem to arrest
the fall, but are in reality only a breathing space, an eddy
in the torrent.
The emperors from Diocletian (280) onwards were autocrats,
in theory as well as in practice, for that emperor had finally
reduced Italy and Rome to the level of provinces, while Rome
ceased to be, even in name, the seat of Imperial authority.
However, for over a century after the accession of Diocletian,
the Roman Empire succeeded in postponing the final cata-
strophe, but there were plenty of signs that the end was at hand.
Barbarians :filled the places hitherto proudly and exclusively
held by Romans : the classes from which the supply of soldiers
had hitherto been drawn were so depleted that Julian led Gothic
troops against Persia, and the army with which Theodosius
defeated the tyrant Maximus iii 388 contained large numbers
of Huns, Alans and Goths. And once Rome was constrained to
look to barbarians for her defence, -it meant that these could
dictate their terms, and must eventually overrule those they
protected, whence it could only be a very few steps to th~ir open
seizure of power. In 45I Rome and the Christian West were
only saved from being subjugated by a heathen and semi-
barbarian conqueror, by the Visigoths, who rallied to her side
and defeated Attila, but thirty years later, on the death of
Orestes, when the barbarian mercenaries proclaimed their
leader, Odoacre, King of Italy, he decided to dispense with even
the nominal authority of an emperor of the West, and place
Italy and the western provinces on a level with all their
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 79
neighbours. And that act marks the final trough of one of
the grandest waves of civilisation the world has ever known.
But, as is the nature of all waves, this wave also dissolved into
radiation, the radiation of Rome's mental legacy of laws and
her spiritual legacy of the Christian religion, which so long as
she was great and powerful were but a part of a much greater
structure, but at her death became the torch that must be kept
alive at all costs, the quantum of civilisation which must be
caught up by a further ionised national atom.
I have treated an immense subject such as the history of the
Roman Empire very cursorily, I am afraid, but my sole object
has been to give my reader a sense of what I mean by waves
of civilisation, the course they take and the main reasons which
conduce both to the rise and fall of this species of wave, that
we may be able to recognise the symptoms in other waves.
And, in the interest of conditions prevailing in our world to-day,
I have given more space to the nature of the fall than to the rise,
it being more apposite, it seems to me. In any case, I hope that
the little I have been able to say may serve as an example
for the study of .past history, and a prognostication-and is
it too much to hope, forewarning ?-of the further evolu-
tion of the history of mankind. Any question as to the how and
wherefore may be referred to the history of Rome. I feel we
can not only observe the law of periodic rise and fall in studying
this history, but, by placing ourselves at a vantage-point from
which we may study it, as we study the lives of bees or ants,
it becomes possible for us to understand the general process
of mankind waves. On the basis of my outline of Roman
history, we English may be able to diagnose our present period
of development, and predict what lies in store for us during the
next few centuries ; there are enough signposts to point out the
way! Rome, like nebulre (as we shall see), dissolved when hersize
became unmanageable, and as with those, thescatteringbeganat
the peripheries, where nations detached themselves to form new
and independent units, as matter does to form independent
suns. Has this process not already begun in our immense and
unwieldy Empire? Further, are we not faced with the same
internal problems as was Rome in the last centuries of her
power : the decline of agriculture and the agricultural popula-
tion; the migration of the rural population to the cities; the
growing thirst for luxury among the rich, and for the excite-
ment of games, in which only one or two per thousand can
take an active and healthy part, among the populace; the
slackening of family ties, especiallythe marriage ties ? These and
8o THE WORLD BREATH
many others are surely symptoms that our wave is repeating
the process which plunged Rome into the trough. But whether
a knowledge of the course on which we are embarked can help
us to avert it is open to question. If, as I believe, this wave,
like all other waves, belongs to a process of nature, then of
course nothing can alter it-except if humanity were to alter,
of which there is little hope at present. That also belongs to a
process which must take its course, and of which I shall have
more to say later in this work.
But as it is fairly easy to discern what nation is at present
in the decline period, so also does it seem to me clear that there
is one which bears all the marks of the rising wave: a nation
which is still controlled by the mos majorum; where the in-
dividual is still subordinate to the state ; where ancestor-
worship is vested in parental authority, and where strict dis-
cipline, and self-sacrifice, are the unwritten law of all citizens,
both male and female This nation is also spreading her power
slowly but surely; she has had, and will continue to have,
setbacks, but as was seen in the history of Rome, these should
only be an incitement to further effort. When, by the absolute
self-immolation of her men on the altar of duty, Japan took
Port Arthur, with every conceivable odd against her, she put
her foot on the first rung of the ladder.
And further, is it perhaps possible to foresee the end of these
waves of civilisation? In reading history, we may see that
each time the wave of power rises to its crest, it spreads over a
wider field.: Rome ruled over the European and the Western
Asiatic· world of her time ; Great Britain has ruled over large
portions of Asia, Africa, Australasia, and carried her banner
even into South America ; on an ever-increasing scale some
future wave should sweep up the whole of Asia, Europe and
Africa-over half of the whole population of the earth-in its
swell.
And when this subsides ? Here let us remember the Law of
Entropy. If over half o{ the earth's population sinks 'into dis-
organisation on the dissolution of the wave last suggested,
eventually a wave must arise which shall embrace the whole
globe-perhaps a black wave ?-and when that~ subsides there
will be little left of mankind; what had been of value would
have radiated itself out in mind-energy, and what remained
would merely be chaotic, energyless ash.
I cannot pretend to predict the quantity of human waves that
must rise and fall until this end be accomplished, that must
depend on many things that are incalculable, chiefly on how
WAVES AND CIVILISATION 8I
much. virility there is still left in the race. When Rome fell
even her civilisation was small in comparison to the whole earth,
largely populated with "barbarians," who were physically
strong and capable of putting fresh blood into effete nations;
but when Great Britain falls, her civilisation will have carried
the love of ease, the desire for maximum comfort at minimum
effort, the thirst for luxury and leisure to all parts of the earth,
owing to the facility of modern communications-even Japan
haS' begun to be infected with it-the day will inevitably come
in some hundreds or thousands of years when the world will have
to look to the black races for young, fresh, physical powers.
The white man's effort to keep them apart is perhaps caused
by an instinctive dread of this!
All these are of course mere speculations, no one can know
anything for certain, but one may be allowed to draw infer-
ences if one knows there is a Law that invariably develops
on certain lines: the waves must succeed one another until
earth life, in its various material forms, organic and inorganic,
has reached" thermodynamic equilibrium." There is, however,
one thing resulting from the entry of mankind into the frame-
work of the universe that makes all the difference, namely, the
birth of mind. Something has here entered into the most
complex form of material life which, in all its descent from
primal chaos to planet, never seems to have been there before.
Later when we shall trace the course of the greater cosmic
wave, this mind power will fall into its place in the periodic
evolution of the Whole, and we shall herein discover a new
wave at its birth. I only mentioned the fact here lest my reader
might "imagine I had led him to the cul-de-sac of extinction
of all things, with the disappearance of mankind from off the
face of the earth. As may be seen from what follows this is
not my purpose in any way, but I think we must learn to
regard mankind in the right perspective, not imagining our-
selves to be either the supreme goal of creation, nor a mere
nothing doomed to destruction-in a sense we are both, but
in order to understand this, we shall have to attack the subject
from a different angle altogether.
In what I have said so far, I have merely desired to show
the various classes of waves which govern the life of this
earth, and to give my reader the key to the "Periodic,,
vision of existence. I think I have now said enough to enable
him to examine anything he chooses, with eyes trained to see
the Law of Periodicity shining through appearances. This
has been my sole ambition, for I shall now demand of him. a
F
82 THE WORLD BREATH
much wider vision, and, unless he had learnt to see periodically,
he could never have been expected to follow me through the
more fantastic issues that are at stake. There may be much
that will seem to be mere wild speculation, but so long as it
is regarded as the most immense wave conceivable to man,
there is at least the similarity between it and our ordinary,
familiar waves, to link it up with the world we know and accept.
And this thread we must hold fast to the end-by so doing
we shall undoubtedly see light~
PART II
EXHALATION AND INHALATION
" Now it is units that give birth to number and increase
it, and being decomposed are taken back again into them-
selves." ·
About the common mind.
G. R. S. MEAD: Thrice Greatest Hermes, Vol. II.
CHAPTER I
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES
I
O
NCE upon a time, so long ago that the date is lost in
the dimness of the past, some holy man said: "This
He ! the imperishable One, by alternately wakening
and slumbering, revivifies and destroys this whole movable
and immovable creation,"1-thus making what is known
throughout the East as the" day and the night of Brahm," or
God. Seeing that, although year by year man is ever dis-
covering more of the " how " of creation, but that the " why "
remains as dark as ever it was, I am not running counter to
any scientific knowledge by. assuming firstly an imperishable
One, and secondly suggesting that He might also have a
vast breath or alternate day and night which would be the
prototype of the periodic movement that manifests throughout
all creation. Something so vast as one cosmic period in which
every form in the universe were but as the rise and. fall of
ripples on the ebb and flow of a tide is almost impossible to
conceive. And in an attempt to work it out, it is often difficult
not to lose oneself in details and forget the complete picture-
forget the forest in looking at the trees-but now I hope I
have said enough about all kinds of periods for my reader
to be able to enter with me into the rhythm of the greater
period of the '' slumbering and wakening '' of the One. It
would certainly have been impossible to expect anyone to
realise the Period of the All-One had he not first realised my
point of view about periodicity.
In describing the universal law, the first step was to find
out if it could be applied to all things in the material·world, or
if only a few responded to it; in the latter case it could have
been dismissed as a conception created by the human intellect
in answer to its own need. I think I have duly proved, however,
that this does not apply, but as I am setting out in search of the
source as well as the container of all things, it must be absolutely
1 Laws of Manu, v, 57·
Bs
86 THE WORLD BREATH
clear that anything that might even remotely be suspected of
being the thought born of the wish, could not be admitted·.
My reader must try to see things in the perspective th_at
might be had from a balloon's eye view of the universe, that
is with perfect detachment, and it is necessary for this pur-
pose that he should exercise discrimination as well as imagina-
tion. In order to make myself clear, I shall have to describe
abstract causes through the medium of concrete things: in
describing the evolution of stars and universes, I shall in reality
be talking of the breath of God. This may sound a bit queer,
but at the point we have arrived at now, this idea is as plaus-
ible as· Jeans' idea of the universe being the thought of a pure
mathematician.1 If, as Jeans further admits, man has not
yet got into touch with ultimate reality, perhaps when we
shall have found one law running through the whole world of
our experience, and further traced it into matters so vast
that anything on our small earth is not much larger than the
atomic world in comparison, we may hope at last to see the
first streak of the dawn of Truth. When our Periodic Law has
become a pendulum-swing that carries the entire universe
in its stroke, we shall have to accustom ourselves to think in
terms entirely outside formations as we know them, and con-
sider all we touch upon in the light of movement in something
that more resembles pure mind, energy or spirit. The small
periodic movements we have hitherto discovered to be in-
herent in all manifestations on earth will be like the various
pulsations in the body which are subject to, and evoked by,
the great central pulsation of the heart. But this central
immense period will not be anything substantial like heart
beats, or rise and fall of waves, but rather something in the
nature of heat wavf>s, or whal scientists call "probability
waves"-something as remote from our senuous apprehension
as is Truth or Fate. God's breath or period, if it exists, must
be behind all things pertaining to the physical world, in the
hinterland of Laws and Principles.
I have dwelt overlong perhaps in the realms of earthly ·
phenomena, but this was the easiest way of introducing my
readers to a very intricate subject; now that we have at last
reached " in the beginning," we can stride forward towards our
goal.
There are two ideas concerning the conditions of the universe
that are fundamental to all scientific theories, both in physics
and in_ astronomy at the present time, namely : (a) the theory
1 Mys. Un., p. 132.
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES
of the cosmical constant, and (b) that of the space-time con-
tinuum ; but I believe we shall eventually discover that
these are not two independent events, but rather two aspects
of one and the same thing. In the first part of this work we
had a great deal to say about the Law of Entropy, which
governs the conditions of the small scale universe, that of
electrons and protons ; the cosmical constant is the same kind
of proc~ss governing the large scale universe; that of spiral
nebulre. (fhe Law of Entropy decrees that the universe is in a
continuous condition of running down from a state of more
perfect organisation into one of disorganisation and dissemina-
tion.XIt is obvious, therefore, that if we remount such a scale,
we cannot but arrive at a time in the long past when once the
disorganisation was organised and the scattered gathered in..
All our greatest scientists are forced back on to this fact, and
certainly it does seem impossible not to carry entropy back
to its logical commencement. "Travelling backwards into the
past we find a world with more and more organisation. If there
is no barrier to stop us earlier, we must reach a moment when
the energy of the world was wholly organised with none of
the random element in it.. ·.. Moreover this organisation is
admittedly the antithesis of chance."1 It is something that
could not occur fortutiously; Jeans says: "The odds
against the present division of the total energy of the universe
into atoms and radiation being fortuitous are, as it happens,
precisely the same as the odds against the universe having
reached its final stage: indeed the mathematical specification
of a fortuitous state is precisely the .same as that of a final
state, and this enables us to dismiss the fortuitous conception
of the universe as being entirely out of the question. Every-
thing points with overwhelming force to a definite event or
series of events of creation at some time or times not indefinitely
remote."2
The latest cosmological theory of the universe being in a
state of active expansion in all directions is but another case
in point ; '' the continual expansion of the world raises the
same kind of question of an ultimate beginning as has been
raised by the continual increase of entropy in the world."3
Based on Einstein's theories, the universe is regarded as a sphere
originally in a state of perfect equilibrium, containing matter
but no motion. This point is undoubtedly the same as that
when " the energy of the world ·was wholly organised," and
we must attain it with the same amount of mathematical
1 N.P.W., p. 84. 2
Eos, p. 55· 3
Exp. Un., p. 55·
88 THE WORLD BREATH
precisiOn. For, if all the spiral nebulre have been found to
be receding at very high velocities both from us and from
one another, according to the scale of cosmical repulsion, if
we remount this process to its beginning, all must once have
started close together. "Since the outward speed of the
nebulre is known by observation, it is a matter of simple
arithmetic to compute the date when they were close together
in a congested crowd,"1-provided they were always receding
at the rate they are moving now. That is, however, hardlylikely,
for these outward speeds have probably been gathering impetus
as they proceed, consequently the cosmical repulsion must
have been much less forcible in the beginning than it is at
present; in any case it seems clear that the same kind of
force is at work with regard to the largest phenomena in the
universe as to the smallest, both are equally scattering from a
once concentrated or equilibrated order into continually
increasing disorganisation, hence there seems little doubt that
the force at work is a "cosmical constant.,
Having determined a primal condition from out of which·
our universe as we know it arose, we come inevitably to the
crucial point of the whole conception: what started it moving?
Some scientists imagine this event to have been a chance upset
of the original, perfectly balanced, equilibrium in space. How
this occurred is a matter of pure speculation. Eddington
admits he prefers the idea of a universe neatly balanced like
a pin on its point, which, as there is nothing outside it, would
by some process inherent in itself-decay ?-eventually drop
either to its A side: i.e. a process of expansion, or to its B side,
i.e. a contraction to a condition '' as near a point as quantum
conditions would allow" ;-as we know, it fell by chance to
A! But it seems to me that there would be no reason for an
''Einstein universe" in a perfectly equilibrated oneness
made up of "matter but no motion/' to change in any way.
We earth beings cannot escape from the idea of decay or change
because everything around us is enmeshed in that process, but
in a universe concentrated and motionless, there would have ·
been no source of change of any kind, therefore when a move-
ment did start, the initial impetus cannot have originated in
motionless matter, but must have been started by some kind
of pressure from outside, or from something being propelled
into it. Abbe Lemaitre agrees with Jeans in preferring the
idea of an original event of creation, which he compares to
fireworks. His theory is that there was a violent projection
1 Exp. Un.• p. 86.
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES Bg
on to, or through, a space condition reduced to a point, which
projection was strong enough "to carry it past the Einstein
state so that it is now falling down towards A (expansion)
as observation requires."1 This seems to me the explanation
that is most in keeping with the data we possess at present,
and the one that is least open to objection. But whether we
think like Eddington or like Lemaitre, we are in either case
faced with the question : why did the universe start on a
process of expansion rather than of contraction? I do not
think the answer to this question can be a mere matter of
chance, I believe it to be a necessity inherent in the constitu-
tion of things, for if the first motion had been one of radiation,
" which is more effective than matter in exerting gravitational
attraction," the primal oneness would have been started on to
a path of contraction, and by now there would be nothing
at all! But as it was a condensation that must have occurred
when first protons and electrons combined to form neutrons,
which later built up hydrogen, and hydrogen helium, etc.,
such a condensation, however slight, must have_ exerted a
pressure on the space around -it, and started the process of
cosmical repulsion which has been going on ever since. To
sum up the condition of the universe as far as it is known to-day,
I think it is safe to say that at one end of the scale " we have
Einstein's universe with no motion and therefore in equili-
brium. Then ~s we proceed along the series, we have model
universes showing more and more rapid expansion until we
reach de Sitter's universe at the other end of the series. The
rate of expansion increases all the way along the series and
the density diminishes; de Sitter's universe is the limit when
the average density of celestial matter approaches zero. The
series of expanding universes then stops, not because the
expansion becomes too rapid, but because there is nothing
left to expand."2 -
Here we seem to have stumbled up against both a beginning
and an end of all the worlds we know, but I shall leave the
question of the latter for the moment. What was most impor-
tant to me to discover was: what might have occurred in the
beginning ofthe universe as we know it, whether there was any
reason for believing in a beginning at all, or whether things
had just existed in a continuous process of change in the same
materials. Having established a beginning of some kind
however, it seems to me that we reach a point where science
and religion are hurled into each other's arms! If once the
1 E~p. Un., p. 59· 2 E~p. Un., p. 47·
go THE WORLD BREATH
universe was started into movement out of a static condition,
_ whatever cause we call in to account for this fact, it is difficult
to escape from attributing it to some cause outside the Einstein
"motionless matter." And whether we regard that motion
as having been started by a Creator who created" the heaven
(space) and the earth (matter)," or by an inflow of some form
of energy from without, the result is the same! Both science
and religion agree about a primal unity-God or nebula-
what happened after that is matter of pure speculation on
one side and of cosmological investigation on the other, but
I do not think there can be any doubt that one will eventually
furnish a logical explanation for the visions of the other-
and both will be right !
To turn to B : the space-time continuum. After all that
has been said, the question that naturally arises in the mind
of any thoughtful person is: if from atoms to nebulre every-
thing is in motion, what was the nature of that which contained
matter but no motion ? Scientists are not agreed as to the
respective merits of a space-time continuum or of ether, as the
basis ofthe universe, but if the ether be"a frame of reference ...
its existence being just as real and just as unreal as that of the
equator, or the north pole, or the meridian of Greenwich";
as being in short "a creation of thought, not of solid sub-
stance" ;1 and if in Minkovsky's words: "space and time
separately have vanished into the merest shadows, and only
a sort of combination of the two preserves any reality," which
reality is at present the framework of the universe, I think
the difference between the two conceptions is merely one of
terminology, and we may regard" space-time" as that wherein
occur the events that we call universe as we know it at present
-inclusive or not of ether, that is immaterial. Regarding the
nature of this space-time continuum, scientists are discovering
something new every year, but the idea most prevalent
to-day is that of an expanding sphere, the curve of which
may either make it into a closed inflatable system, some-
thing like a rubber balloon, or into a thing of sausage shape,
either closed or not closed at its extremities; the most usual
description is a closed " pimply " sphere (the pimples corre-
sponding to the galaxies which form local excrescences in
space), with all its middle left out. Some scientists have raised
the objection that a "pimply world" could never originally
have been in the state of equilibrium which the cosmical
constant requires, but the researches of Prof. N. K. Sen and
1 Mys. Un., p. xos.
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES gr
Lemaitre have lately shown that the one does not exclude the
other. In short we may conclude that we, earth, are being
carried along by a condensation formed in a vast curved
space, wherein the only time dimension, for each individual
condensation, is marked by the rate at which it has travelled
from its original state of union with all other members of the
species, and by the speed of its flight from all its " neighbours "
in space. And this brings me back to my original contention.
As we see, there are two great laws regulating the nature and
activities of all things in the universe ; one seems to be the
positive, the other the negative side of the picture ; one marks
the rate of movement pursued by all things across the static
condition of the other. And together, these laws proclaim
this movement to be one of dispersion and distension. What
is there in this idea that might exclude the cosmical constant
plus the material particles (whether atoms or nebulre) which
it controls, being regarded as a vast breath scattering in all
directions? Is it not possible that this dispersing force we
call " entropy " or " cosmical constant " is carrying forward
and outward the very substance of that breath, namely,
electrons and protons, which are the elemental forces of the
universe; is there anything in all this that excludes the idea
of an immense exhalation from one original source? If
entropy rules all motion in the universe, and this motion leads
to a final state when there will be nothing left but " motion
and no matter,"· and if then we imagine a breath controlled
by the rate of its expulsion from the lungs, with a fixed term
of output, but no recognisable limitation of expansion, my
suggestion which, at first sight, might seem the fruit of a dis-
ordered mind, begins to assume a definite shape. (I am, of
course, only speaking of lungs metaphorically, I do not imagine
the cause of the cosmic breath to be the same as man's in
any conceivable sense of the word.)
I must here frankly admit that the most puzzling thing about
my idea of God's breath is its possible relationship to the space-
time sphere. But I think even this will not be an obstacle any
longer if we cease thinking of atoms as one thing and space as
another. If on the one hand" matter and radiation are found
equally to resolve themselves into waves " ;1 and if on the other
''Nature ... has not left anything to betray the frame (of
space) which she used. Or perhaps the concealment is not any
particular subtlety ; she may have done her work without
employing a frame of space.... They (frames of space) are a
1
Mys. Un., p. 43·
92 THE WORLD BREATH
method of partition which we have found useful for reckoning,
but they play no part in the architecture of the universe, ;1
it seems to me it then becomes necessary to regard the space-
time universe and its contents as one sole entity which has so
far escaped all definition, and may just as well be the supreme
wave of God's breath as such, without any decomposition into
space, time or atoms. As we exist we cannot very well deny ·
that we, and therefore the universe, is something ; but supposing
it is all nothing in itself, but only the process of expanding.
concentrations, we must come very close to a conception of the
breath of God being all there is anywhere, space being of the
substance of that breath and not something within which it
occurs.
Breath of any kind is undoubtedly a periodic action, however,
and it may well be objected that it is difficult to discover any
trace of periodicity in these our excursions into cosmology, but
this difficulty arises solely from an ,incapacity to realise
the periodic nature of only one period within which we
happen to be existing. In order to understand periodicity
on the immense scale we are now considering, I had
to make sure, to begin with, that anything was occurring in
space which might even remotely resemble either an ebb or a
flow in a tide more vast than.anything ever imagined before.
And although what has been discovered looks at present more
like a uni-directional process, lasting exactly one period from
start to :finish-and certainly no physicist or cosmologist (notice
these words are in italics) has ever yet discovered any sign of a
re-collection of the materials which are dispersing throughout
the universe-yet I am sure my reader will agree that, in the
composition of the universe, all sciences must play their part,
and we may discover later that where two sciences come to an
end of their resources, others may take up the thread. In these
matters, as Eddington admits, it is a question of discovering the
theory that best fits all the facts in question. Therefore there
is no harm done if, for the moment, we assume that our periodic
law still holds good, and make the widest application of it that
our human brains are capable of.
Alternate increase and decrease are inherent in the nature
of this law, as we know, and in following the course of the
universe, we have so far made sure of the first stage; if we
eventually discover a condition following upon the final
scattering and dissemination of the physical universe, in which
energy were behaving in the reverse sense of that pursued by
1 N.P. W., p. 27.
FROM NEBUL£ TO ASHES 93
matter : concentrating, moving in a centripetal instead of its
present centrifugal action, behaving in such wise that eventually
all energies must be re-collected into a supreme Oneness-:.--of
an entirely insubstantial nature-could we not then recognise
that there is, behind all manifestation, a condition that puts out
in matter in a first period, and in a second one draws inwards in
some at present unimaginable form of energy, thus forming two
va~t pulsations which are hardly to be reckoned ·in figures ?
Perhaps one of the chief obstacles in the way of our con-
ceiving this form of periodicity lies in the difficulty of realising
anything on so vast a scale, we instinctively think it impossible
that the laws which rule universes should be anything like
those on our earth ! If we consider our sun, which is probably
seven to eight million million years old, and yet young compared
to certain other heavenly bodies, and which, although it is
radiating itself away at the rate of 250 million tons a minute,
would still be much as it is now in another million years ; and,
if we realise at the same time that these millions are nothing
when compared to the necessary reckoning in megaparsecs1
which we come up against in dealing with nebulre-we obtain a
slight hint of the time that must elapse from the beginning of
a wholly organised universe to its final end in complete dis-
persion. And as the period of inspiration up to a final re-collec-
tion must be of equal duration, the entire process assumes
dimensions which,· even were they calculable, would not be
conceivable ! To obtain even the dimmest perception of the
proportions of God's ONE expiration and inspiration, it would
be necessary to conceive the idea of a period to be calculated
by more volumes than are contained in all England filled with
o's following after this number I-obviously an impossibility!
But however far removed it may be in the dawn of time,
there must once have existed a moment when that vast
expiration began and the first ripple of movement coursed
through space. Even though its source remain for ever hidden
-that it was, is the only thing that matters.
Once, not so very long ago, this idea would have seemed
monstrous : Breath of God, thick lumps of matter like stars
and universes-preposterous! But things have altered since
then, the tendency of modern physics is to resolve the whole
material universe into waves and nothing but waves ...
"forever solid matter melts into insubstantial radiation;
forever the tangible changes into the intangible " 2-if we
accept that idea, why not the possibility of its being the breath
1 I megaparsec=3·26 million light years. · 2
Mys. Un., p. 77·
94 THE WORLD BREATH
of God? "The super-system of the galaxies is dispersing as a
puff of smoke disperses. Sometimes I wonder whether there
may not be a greater scale of existence of things in which it is
no more than a puff of smoke,"1
-or a puff of breath, is there
any great difference between the two ? Only the difference
between a phenomenon of life and one of death, and, as there
is no rule against it, I prefer to consider the universe as a
natural event in the course of a periodic process rather than as
the closing act of a preceding conflagration ! I shall therefore
proceed to tell the story of God's breath as best I can, and in
the end, perhaps it may seem the simplest thing in the world,
the only possible way of explaining all things in the universe
we know.
II
Pursuing the cosmical constant backwards, we have found
that once upon a time there must have be~n a uniform Oneness
with no parts in it, nothing that could have been separated or
distinguished from any other, just all one single undivided
substance. But from out of this substance (or propelled through
it) must have arisen the first wave, for if the whole universe
we know be nothing but waves, these must have had their
origin at the birth of the physical world out of the primal
Oneness. If we discover waves or, what to me is the same thing,
periodicity,running through everythingin the universe to-day, I
cannot but think that, whatever may have started it, whatever
may have been its nature, the first motion in the primal nebula
must have been discontinuous; allsubsequent waves must be
the sequels of the first ripple -that was stirred into action in
that· world of "matter without motion," which has been
travelling outward in a continuous succession of rises and falls
ever since. Let us, once more, imagine ourselves in the place
of that Giant with the monumental spectroscope, sitting at his
table outside space.:.time, he must have had a considerable
shock when his instrument suddenly registered its first white
streaks-the first waves of nebulre ! These would have been the
first symptom of waves so vast that, compared with them, all
other waves would be as the waves of radiation are when com-
pared to those of the sea ! But even those are as nothing when
compared to the great tidal wave that is sweeping all things
outward towards the ebb of worlds in the ocean of thermo-
dynamical equilibrium, and whose flow shall be when, in the
words of the Book of the Dead, '' I enter in and I come to Life."
1 Exp. Un., p. 13.
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES 95
Here we are necessarily faced with the question : How was
the first wave started in the Primal Nebula, in" matter without
·motion"? Was the "definite event or series of events" an
infusion of the matter composing our universe from somewhere
outside it, or did a commotion of some kind occur within the
sphere itself ? As everything in these matters must be in the
nature of conjecture, let us try to discover the theory that best
enables us to imagine how our space-time universe was built up.
Eddington says that the " initial mean density of matter in
the universe =I·os.Io-27 grammes per cu. cen.-I hydrogen
atom per Isgo cu. cen."1 Further is the astonishing fact that
although we imagine inter-stellar space must be exceedingly
cold, we are told that the temperature of the inter-stellar cloud
cannot be much below the temperature of the hottest stars,
that is about I5,ooo degrees. Now I5,ooo degrees is the tempera-
ture which corresponds to the individual speeds of protons and
electrons, therefore it is undoubtedly to them that we must
look for the first generation of heat of some kind. That they
must have been in motion from the first is hardly open to doubt
considering that the atoms most frequently found in inter-
stellar space are helium atoms, and in order that these might be
built up, it was necessary that four of the original hydrogen
atoms should meet. At first sight such meeting does not seem
anything very improbable, but in the atomic world the I58o cu.
cen. that separated one hydrogen atom from another is a
vast distance, Oslo and Rome would be close to one another
in comparison! Yet that they did meet is unquestionable
considering that helium can arise from no other source.
It is obvious, however, that no meeting could ever occur
between static bodies in space, in fact it is common knowledge
that there could be no body of any kind in the universe without
speed, for 11
matter is speed and as substance embued with
speed is also energy, matter must be considered to be a
particular form of energy " 2-even when it is only the first
promise of matter, i.e. protons and electrons.
We may therefore feel pretty certain that once they existed,
the original hydrogen nuclei must have been in motion, but it
at once became, not only a forward motion, but also one of
rotation which has continued ever since. According to Einstein :
"it becomes possible to regard rotations unrestrictedly as
relative motions too, so that the centrifugal field around a
rotating body can be interpreted as a gravitational field
1 Exp. Un., p. 68.
11 Gustav le Bon: Naissance et Evolution de la 11fatiere.
g6 THE WORLD BREATH
produced by the revolution of all the masses in the universe
about the non-rotating body in question."1 But if we remember
Einstein's idea of the original universe of matter without
motion, it is difficult to imagine how the masses in the universe.
should have altered in any way in their effect upon one another
-assuming that protons and electrons were originally part -of
those masses as cherries and orange slices are part of jelly.
Providing nothing newoccurred, there wasnoreason for anything
to start rotating round any other ! But if, on the other hand,
space had to be compressed to make room for the entrance of
extraneous vestiges of matter, and it in turn pressed in upon
these non-rotatingnew arrivals,this wouldexplain allthe further
construction of the universe. If we follow Jeans, and admit
t:Q.at "the type of conjecture which presents itself somewhat
insistently is that the centres of the nebulce are of the nature of
'singular points' at which matter is poured into our universe
from some other and entirely extraneous spatial dimension, so
that to a denizen of our universe they appear as points at which
matter is being continually created,"2 is it not possible that
at these points protons and electrons were projected into the
static Einstein space and were promptly started rotating by
the compression of surrounding masses ?
Further, I do not see that there would be anything in all
this that might mitigate against my idea of the great Breath.
As was seen above the" masses" are after all nothing massive,
only something as insubstantial as the equator or our thoughts,
and space-time which surrounds the inpouring breath is a
condition as such, not a thing. The only reality seems to lie in
those atomic particles which are exhaled into space from else-
where and build up the universe! Which facts, being com-
pletely compatible with what we know of the exhaled breath
and its ingredients, my idea of God's breath seems to become
less and less fantastic as we proceed ! Could not the same words
be applied to a vast breath as Eddington applied to the material
world, which he describes·as beginning in a perfectly organised
state and ending in what is called " thermodynamical equiJi-
brium " ? And as for its final state, " we anticipate· that there
will ultimately be a complete running down of the uriiverse
by a slow degradation of energy into unavailable form," 3
but whether it be unavailable for all forms, Qr only for the forms
known hitherto, remains to be seen. "The end is not yet."
Our next step must be to find the link, if any there be,
1 Freundlich: Einstein's Theory of Gravitation, p. 55·
:~ Ast. &- Cos., p. 329. 1 Exp. Un.-. p. 123.
FROM NEBUL£ TO ASHES 97
between the primal helium and giant nebulre. Any solution of
this problem must be in the nature of hypothesis, but, physicists
at the present time consider it probable that the several
hundred thousand nebulre which we perceive lying ''like
silver snails in the garden of the stars '' are entirely composed
of atoms derived from hydrogen, and if this be so, it is likely
that the foundation of all nebular and other cosmic aggrega-
tions is to be found in the first formation of helium out of the
four hydrogen atoms, all others having more than four r
We now have before us a picture of atoms moving both
forward and in rotation, collecting into new atoms and worlds,
but there is yet another factor that makes a growing condensa-
tion of the material in the universe yet more explainable. It
is a well-known fact that speed and heat are concomitant in
the formation of mass, for instance, if we take the temperature
of an ordinary room, where the molecules of air are moving
at an average speed of soo yards a second; "if we heated it
up to 40,ooo,ooo0
the speed would be just over a hundred miles
a second," and the air would long since have condensed to
matter. If, then, we could discover that in the formation of
helium, inprimal atomic activity, there were some source ofheat,
further condensations in space must become purely a question
of time. And, wondrous to relate, the required heat provider
has been found, for it has been shown that when the four
hydrogen atoms collide, the new element does not absorb
the entire energy of its predecessors, but 0·03 gr. of energy
escape, providing, as Eddington says, '' a prolific supply of
heat."1 Consequently, as we proceed up the scale and reach
the terrifically radio-active elements in the nebulre, more and
more heat is generated. It is perhaps something of a vicious
circle if ~oms gen~!"_ate ~~~t, and h~at g~nerat~s m~s~, but
if we conceive tnat first emission of o·-03 g-r~--of energy, and
imagine this gathering to itself further atoms as it passes
on its way, perhaps even upsetting, by ionisation, the balance
of other atoms scattered through the universe, it is then no
more necessary to admit any but the first intervention of what
we call chance, in the aggregation of atoms to build up helium
the rest follows automatically.
There is, however, one further suggestion consequent on
Lord Rutherford's recent experiments, which I have not seen
advanced anywhere, but which I feel I cannot ignore. Is
there anything to prevent our supposing that, previous to
the meeting of proton and electron to form the hydrogen
1 St. & .At., p. IOI.
G
g8 THE WORLD BREATH
atom, when the primal ingredients of the nucleus, or proton
(of which at least two are known) first combined, this might
have started the first ripple of heat coursing through space-·
is this perhaps the source of the famous cosmic ray? The
· radi~ motion of the original nucleii must have been com-
paratively slow, emitting very little heat, but as they collected
electrons and finally formed the first atoms of hydrogen, their
rate of rotation would have increased systematically, according
to the principle of angular ffi.~l!!Il, and concomitantly,
heat and mass risen in degree. Further, the passage of such
condensations through space would have formed a kind of
current which Einstein calls the "puckers in space," to
which all matter, from nebulre downward, is finally reduced.
These puckers gathered volume as they proceeded, until
they collected into whirlpools, whose gravitational action
drew all stray particles into themselves. (We are still
speaking of things that cannot as yet be called matter.)
Thus, step by step, did protons and electrons grow into the
vast nucleus of a nebula!
Jeans' description of the construction of spiral nebulre
entirely bears out all we have been saying. According to him,
when the gas of primal space had gathered sufficient molecules
together to form a denser mass than that of surrounding space,
it could be regarded as the first condensation in a gravitational
field. "It can be proved that if a condensation is of sufficient
extent, the excess of gravitational force may be sufficient to
inhibit scattering altogether. In such a case the condensation
may continually grow through attracting molecules into it
from outside.... If once conditions are favourable to its
growth, a condensation goes on growing automatically until
there are no more molecules to absorb. . . . The greater the
extent in space of a condensation, the more favourable condi-
tions are to its continued growth, small ones merely dissipate
away."1 Being very small indeed, how then did the first
gathering of hydrogen atoms not dissipate away ? This
was, however, not a "condensation," but a new element,
a molecule, and condensations took place when very
many of such molecules had gathered together, emitting
much heat and travelling with speed, causing in short
a good deal of a disturbance in space. It may be objected,
however, that such a condensation, however large for those
early times, could not effect but a very small area. But Jeans
assures us that : '' Such an argument overlooks the way in
1 Un. At-. Us., p. 196.
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES 99
which the gravitational pull of a small body acts throughout
.the universe.... So long as gravitation acts, no disturbanc~
can be confined to.any area less than the whole of space . . .
even the smallest disturbance must set up condensations,
although these may be of extremely feeble intensity.''1 There-
fore, when hydrogen grows into helium and emits heat, and
rotates, it is clear that the necessary " disturbance " is created
throughout the universe, and condensations ensue. From that
point to the emergence of nebulre is only a matter of time.
And thus have we witnessed the birth and growth of a wave
of dimensions which our wildest dreams could never have
suggested.
But, of course, the question is: is this a wave? Will not
these condensations go on growing and spreading forever ?
What is to stop them and send them hurtling into the trough ?
Nothing-unless it were of the essential nature of waves to do
so, and these were to be no exception, thereby giving proof
of their identity ! And it looks much as if this were the case, for,
in tracing the course of nebulre we suddenly run up against an
unexpected limitation : when condensations have attained
a certain mass, they can, for no apparent reason, go no further,
and they start on the backward swing, the period of devolution
in which we see the nebulre to-day. It may well be asked
what causes these limitations, but at the present stage of our
knowledge, it is impossible to give any definite reason. All
we know is that the force of gravitation ."collects together
nebulus and chaotic material, the force of radiation pressure
chops it off into suitably sized lumps."2 Apparently such
lumps cannot surpass a certain measure ; beyond that,
matter seems to refuse to hold together, it necessarily dissociates
and starts on its entropy path. The point of equilibrium is
reached at about 2000 million tons-perhaps this is the spatial
mass relative to the speed of light, since radiation is responsible
for the then ensuing decrease or contraction of the nebula?
This idea is confirmed by the fact that Einstein regards the
speed of light as an '' omnipotent " constant, the C ; and
Eddington says that this speed '' occupies a unique position
in every measure-system . . . it is the speed at which the
mass of matter becomes infinite, lengths contract to zero,
clocks stand still."3 I think this makes it clear that we need
seek no further for our boundary line ;{when concentrations
of matter have reached the speed and heat relative to the speed
1 Un. A.r. Us., p. 198.
I Ibid., P·· 55·
I St. ~ At., p. 26.
IOO THE WORLD BREATH
of light, we may say they have reached boiling-point, and the
first bubbles rise to the surface-bubbles of stars whose numbers
increase in direct ratio to the contraction of the parent nebula.
This process is easily understood, for as nebulre contract they
produce currents whichare rarely symmetrical. " Ifthe motion
in each mass of condensing gas had been directed towards
the centre of the condensation at every point, the final result
would have been a spherical nebula devoid of all motion,
but any less symmetrical system of currents would result in
a spin being given to each contracting mass. . . . When the
process of condensation was complete, the final product would
be a series of nebulre rotating at different rates."1 In the sky,
we can trace every step in the development of nebulre to-day,
from the perfectly spherical nebulre, which are apparently not
rotating at all, to those with slight rotation which have a
shape like a "slightly flattened orange." As the rotation of
these increases, so does the degree of flattening, until, at the
Equator, there begins to appear a slight bulge, which grows
sharper and sharper as the rotation increases, until the mass
becomes like a double convex lense, a good example of which
is seen in the photographs of the nebula N.G.C. 3II5, a shape
of this kind : ~ '' Up to this point each increase in rotation
has made the bulge on the Equator sharper, but this is now as
sharp as it can be. Theory shows that the flattening has also
proceeded to the utmost possible limit, and that the next
stage must consist in matter being ejected through the sharp
edge of the Equator."2 This, then, is the point when the
nebula gets chopped off into the lumps we call stars!
In this story of nebulre we have no difficulty in perceiving
the rise and fall of a vast tidal wave : we have watched the
material of nebulre collect, concentrate and grow-till it
reached its zenith. But seeing it could not continue growing
forever, nor remain stationary, a decline was inevitable,
and the periods of this declirie may now be observed
through all their stages. In all this it seems to me that the·
Law of Periodicity has reached the highest sublimation we
have as yet encountered. It fills one with amazement when
one realises the rise and fill of a wave in the dimensions of
universes, and watches matter increase and decrease ina manner
nowise different from that followed by atoms and men! We
see vaster and vaster shapes rise before our eyes, as these great
cosmic bodies draw into themselves energy, even as did the
atoms, and, having reached a certain limit of fullness, they
1 Utt. At'. Us., p. 202. a Ibid., p. 204.
FROM NEBUL£ TO ASHES IOI
start on their journey of decrease. The only difference is that
we do not know their quantum number, but that they have
one seems more than likely, considering that: "It is clear
from photographs of spiral nebulre that when condensation of
their outer parts sets in, these do not immediately break into
a uniformly distributed cloud ·of stars. . . . (They probably
wait to collect their quantum? Author.) The condensations
form on the largest possible scale at first, and then gradually
smaller condensations form inside these, until the shortest
wave-length is reached ... the final condensation is stellar
mass."1 But even our galactic nebula, in a final stage of
development though it be, has not yet completely dissolved
into stars, for there are great black spots somewhere about its
centre, that are suspected of being some of the material of the
original nebula not yet condensed-or uncondensable?
Having now reached the star stage, it will be necessary to
examine the nature of stars as such. As we were unable to
examine the inner workings of nebulre, it may be just as well
to learn as much as possible of a star's composition, for on this
must depend the story of its evolution-and what is true of
stars was in all probability equally applicable to nebulre,
and will perhaps explain what seems obscure in what we have
seen of their evolution. I think, to begin with, we may safely
assume that only those condensations survive within nebulre
which are above a certain degree of intensity, for the same
reasons as were adduced with regard to the primal condensa-
tions in the original gas. While the smaller disappear, the larger
grow until they have become stars or s-u.ns. Here it is possible
to calculate the minimum size of a condensation that can be
eXpected to have a permanent existence, and these measures
lead us to the astonishing fact, that most of them are of weights
comparable to those of our sun. " We are dealing with stellar
weights at last; the condensations which must form at ·the
outer regions of the great nebulre will have weight comparable
with that of the stars."2
. Further, stars are immeasurably hotter at their centres than
on their surface. Taking the sun as an example (and all main
sequence stars have approximately the same temperature) it has
in· its interior an average temperature of 40-50 million degrees,
whereas ~ts surface temperature is only 6ooo0
• Now, as was
seen above, heat is the necessary correlative of mass, and it is
impossible '' to build up a permanent star the size of the sun
without introducing an activity. or temperature exceeding
1 Ast. &- Cos., § 357· 1 Un. A,. Us., p. 2~6.
I02 THE WORLD BREATH
Io,ooo,ooo0
,"1 but seeing that heat has been " introduced,"
and that stars are at their densest where the heat is greatest,
namely, at their centres, this must mean that where there is
that intense condensation there must be the nucleus around ·
which the star was built up. .
In fact, what was said of the spiral nebulre applies equally
to the stars. In its extreme youth a star is '' an enormously
distended mass of gass, sometimes exceeding 300 million miles
in diameter," the surface temperature being comparatively
low, ranging from 2500° to 3000° Cel, and rising to 2-3,ooo,ooo0
Cel at its centre, and''the density of whose outer part is soslight,
that it might be compared to that of the residual gas in the
vacuum tube, from which most of the contents have been
pumped."2 But, as it continues on its evolutionary path,
a star ''radiates much heat, slowly decreases in diameter,
and increases in density. These changes are accompanied by
a steady rise in temperature, which becomes greater and greater
as the star changes from red, through yellow to white."3 But
here again the action is discontinuous, stars proceed by leaps
and bounds; there is nothing in their evolution that could
be compared to the changes in the sky at dawn, one colour
melting into another. There are red stars, yellow ones and
white ones, but nothing in between. At their most active and
intense stage '' the surface temperature of the white stars
may exceed 2o,ooo° Cel, and their central temperature may
reach 30,ooo,ooo0
• After the maximum surface temperature is
obtained, the surface temperature begins to fall, but the
central temperature may remain constant for a long period.
The colour meanwhile changes from white through yellow
to red, so that at one end of the scale we have huge ex-
panded red giants, and near the other small condensed
dwarfs."' There are three three main stages on this path, of
which I will give three stars as an example. Algol in the first
stage, which we may call the youngest, the Sun at middle age,
and Krueger 6o a very old white dwarf ; it took the sun about
five billion years to get from the stage of Algol to its present
condition, and Krueger 6o some five hundred billion to evolve
from the sun state. We are now in a position to follow the evolu-
tion of stars from the condensation of nebular material to suns,
which attract more and more molecules till they can spread no
1 St. & At., p. 13.
2
G. E. Hale: Beyond the Milky Way, p. 62 ff.
8 Ibid.
' Ibid.
FROM NEBUL.tE TO ASHES ro3
further, of which Antares (which occupies go,ooo,ooo times as
much space as the sun, yet is only forty to fifty times the sun's
weight, its matter still being so widely dispersed}, may be
regarded as the culmination point, afterwhich the journey starts
on its backward march down through the sun to Krueger 6o
and the VanMaanen star which are at the trough of the wave.
These last are at what may be called the lowest step of all,
beyond which no further development seems possible, and
here there seems to be an impenetrable boundary '' formed by
configurations in which the atoms lie as close together as they
can be packed (having lost all their electrons). In course of
time most stars reach this barrier, but cannot cross it, and sidle
along it indefinitely."1 We now see before our mind's eye
waves or periods of stars as of nebulre-waves on a scale never
dreamt of in the wildest dreams of delirium-but even these
are only acts in this play of the great tide which is carrying its
ebb out to sea, as we shall eventually discover.
To return to the quantum theory and our periodic law,
there is a very interesting point about stars. Jeans says that
one cannot regard the evolution of stars as u the steady march
of an army through a perfectly flat country," but rather as
persons scrambling down terraces. The different terraces in
stars would correspond to the jumps of electrons from ring
to ring in the atom, it seems to me. 11
A star stands for a time
on the terrace (corresponding to one ring-Author} and then
stepping on to the slippery unstable region between this
terrace and the next, drops down to the next lower terrace,"2
from the giant branch to the main sequence, let us say. It is
impossible to find stars in any intermediate state, therefore it
looks as if there were a law of somewhat the same nature as
the quantum : stars may only absorb just so much, no more nor
less, and never be in a part quantum condition ! Main sequence
stars are all of about the same diameter as our sun, then a huge
gap, and then the white dwarfs of about I/Iooth its diameter,
and o·oooi its luminosity. So much for the periodic dissolution
of stars, but is there any reason-to suppose that their activities
manifest any characteristics of periodicity such as do atomic
activities, for instance?
If we examine the stars very closely I think we shall discover
in them a further form of periodicity, as peculiar to their nature
as is the absorption and emission of energy by h.v. to the nature
of atoms. Although it is very difficult to obtain exact know-
ledge of a star when it first condenses out of the nebular state,
1 Ast. 6- Cos.• p. 165. 1 Ib\d., § I65 .
104 THE WORLD BREATH
it is now considered probable that" quite large pulsations must
be set up. . . . If so, in its first era of stable existence, the star
must be executing pulsations of very large amplitude. . . .
Although exact calculations are difficult, it seems very likely
that the pulsations are checked mainly by conduction of heat,
this reducing the duration of the pulsating stage to a time of
the order needed to account for the observed number of long
period variables."1 Characteristic of these variables and their
sisters, the Cepheid variables, is that they have periods of
greater and lesser luminosity, and seem very rare in the firma-
ment. They are a species of star that has given astronomers
much food for thought of late: Jeans says: "We are forced
to conclude that (variability) is more of the nature of a passing
phase in the normal development of every star, or at least of
a considerable portion of stars."2
It is not necessary to repeat here all that has been said of
the way in which atoms inhale and exhale energy, but on the
strength of what we already know, I think it is legitimate to
regard the pulsations of stars and their variability as being of
the same nature and arising from the same causes. But there
is no reason why some form of this pulsation does not continue
still. When we observe it in the stars, they are still in a very
large and unsettled condition, later in the variables two stars
in close proximity are acting upon each other, and we observe
a nearer and further movement, most likely the expanding and
contracting motions of the system ; but there is no reason
why all stars should not be pulsating still, only their motions
being much quicker and more concentrated, we cannot observe
the alterations. In any case these variable stars are but one
more example of our periodic law-a ripple on the ocean com-
pared to the immense rises and falls of nebulre and stars-yet
obviously of immense importance in the structure and evolution
of stars.
Pursuing our way through the system of the universe, the
next step further down the scale is the condition of the planets.
These were supposed to have been born when a stream of
matter was drawn off our sun by the passage of some wandering
star, which approached close enough to draw streamers of
gas from it, yet not close enough to be drawn into its gravita-
tional action-a very rare occurrence in the paths of stars !
According to the operation of the gravitational instability
we observed in relation to nebulre, when these streamers
formed condensations that were large enough, they grew
1 Ast. &- Cos., Ch. XV. 2 Ibid., ~ 354·
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES I05
into planets which swept up the remaining debris of
gas and dust from the original sun stream, until there
is now so little left that we only find last traces of it in
the zodiacal light. Planets, once established, act in the same
way as suns and nebulre, they condense into large bodies and
then slowly shrink as their surface crust hardens and their
radio-active substances bum down. They are also scattering
away from the sun-the main source of their heat supply-
whilst their few radio-active atoms are burning themselves away
-as we may observe in radium-which means that in some
millions of years they must end as the dead ash of worlds.
Further still down the scale the last stage of all in the evolu-
tion of star life is that of the planets' satellites; Jeans says:
" The principal characteristics of the solar system are repro-
duced with great fidelity in the smaller systems formed by
Jupiter and Saturn with their accompanying families of
satellites. Each of these small systems is so exact a replica
in miniature of the solar system that no suggested origin for
the main system can be accepted unless it can account equally
for the smaller planetary systems. . . . Immediately after the
birth of any planet, say Jupiter, for instance, the original
situation repeats itself.... Jupiter, now playing the part
originally assigned to the sun, while the sun, or wandering
star, or possibly both together, play the part of the tide-
raising disturber. Again we get the emitted filament, again
the formation of condensations, and again, as the final result,
obtain a chain of detached masses."1
We have now seen this occur five times in the various periods
of evolution in the sky, and each time the next formation has
been a great deal smaller than the last. Looked at in this way,
one cannot help thinking that the process might go on for ever,
each satellite of each planet might on these lines produce
smaller satellites to circle round itself. But apparently there
is a limit. We saw above that condensations in the gaseous
element could not survive unless they were of a certain size,
" the first five satellites of Saturn all ha.ve masses of the order
of I0·24 grammes. Formula 378·I shows that for bodies of this
mass to be formed by gravitational instability out of a gaseous
filament, the density of the original filament must be many
hundreds .or thousands of times that of water. Such a density
is incompatible with the gaseous state."2 If, then, these bodies
were not formed out of a gaseous filament, they must have been
solid from birth, and one can imagine them liquifying or
1 Ibid., p. 384. 2 Ibid., ~ 381.
106 THE WORLD BREATH ·
solidifying almost at the same time as their parent planets, for
gaseous bodies of this size could not have held together gravita-
tionally, and would have dissipated into space. Therefore
this must imply that no further gaseous filaments can be .
drawn out of bodies reduced to satellite stage, and they can
only break up into or throw off dead lumps.
Having reached the limits of the bodies that ever have been
or, as far as we can see, ever will be seen in the sky, the next
question that rises to the mind is what will happen when a sun
which loses 36o,ooo million tons of weight every day in radiation
has radiated itself away, which moment must arrive some day,
however long we may postpone the evil hour. The answer to
this question depends on the sources of the sun's radiation,
i.e. how it produces it. Eddington assumes that it is emitted
from two sources (and I think all astronomers are agreed on
this point to-day) : (a) the transmutation of hydrogen; (b) the
annihilation of matter. The first is certain, the other is still
open to question, but since Lord Rutherford has succeeded in
breaking up the atom, there seems to be little doubt left as to
the exactitude of this assumption. With regard to (a) we spoke
above about the energy released by the transmutation of
hydrogen into higher elements. As this undoubtedly occurs in
the hot interior of stars, it follows that the source of the radia-
tion that is to last it the rest of the millions of years it has to
live should be iound in the highly condensed inner core. But
this appears to be only a partial solution of the riddle, for we
now come to the second phase. There are, it appears, many
astronomical indications that the transmutation of hydrogen
is not sufficient to answer for the energy emitted by the stars.
''It may be responsible for the rapid liberation of energy in the
earliest (giant) stages, when the star is a large diffuse body
radiating heat abundantly : but energy in later life seems to
come from a source subject to different laws of emission.
There is considerable evidence that as a star grows older it
gets rid of a large fraction of matter which originally consti-
tuted it, and apparently this can only be contributed by the
annihilation of matter."l
There are many facts which support this theory which could
not be explained by any other means. To begin with, it is not
likely that the sun at its birth was very much hotter than the
colossal temperatures shown above. "But as the 'rest mass'
of an electron or other charged particles is generally enormously
greater than its energy mass, the latter assumes its greatest
1 St. & At., p. IOI.
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES I07
importance at high temperatures. Now the temperature at
the centre of the sun is about so,ooo,ooo degrees, in spite of
which the' rest mass' accounts for all but one part in 20o,ooo
of the total mass."1 This would lead us to conclude that most of
the mass of the primeval sun must have consisted of that " rest
mass " which was the storehouse from which it has been drawing
the energy mass ever since. Considering that it has been
steadily but surely burning itself away, the atoms in its store
can only have disappeared in one way," they must have been
annihilated, and their mass must be represented by the mass of
the radiation which the sun has emitted in its long life of
millions of millions of years."2 Even so, we could hardly believe
that it could go on radiating for so long and not pass out
altogether, but this is easily explained by an examination of
radium, which as we know is radiating itself away in the same
fashion, and whose rate of destruction we can calculate approxi-
mately : " Given a certain number of atoms of radium, half
decay in I58o years and half are left at the end of that time. In
the next I58o years half of that half will decay and a quarter of
the orignial number will be left ; at the end of a third period of
I58o years an eighth of the original number will be left, and so
on/'3 which shows an inverse ratio of decrease as it proceeds,
and accounts for its length of life. Therefore even though the
interior of the sun contains atoms incomparably more radio-
active than radium, on this analogy its length of life remains
perfectly comprehensible.
But however long we postpone the evil hour, the time must
inevitably come when all that can be dissolved has been dis-
solved. What will then be the condition of the universe? On
the one hand there will be dead suns, in a state much like that
of our moon, composed of closely packed ionised atoms; but
what will have become of the energy and electrons which those
ionised atoms have lost? All that radiation will, according to
Jeans, only affect the nature of space about as much as the
melting of a grain of sugar would the Atlantic ocean ! It is even
possible to make an estimate of the number of universes in
space, and it is computed that the melting of all into radiation
would only make a difference of eleven degrees in the tempera-
ture of space. Calculation has shown that the universe could
not become "saturated with radiation in the way tea may
become saturated with sugar until it reaches a temperature of
7,5oo,ooo,ooo,ooo degrees. At this temperature, not before,
space refuses to absorb any more radiation ... and to raise space
1 Mys. Un., p. 69. 2 Ibid. a A.B.C., p. 122.
I08 THE WORLD BREATH
to this temperature would require the dissolution of some
3X Io47 universes similar to our present universe."1 At that
rate, it does not seem probable that any building up process
could ever be discovered in the physical aspect of the universe, ·
and whether we like it or not we must accept the fact that:
'' Entropy must for ever increase ; it cannot stand still until-it
has increased so far that it can increase no further. When this
stage is reached . . . the universe will be dead,"2-dead of a
"heat death" in which the total energy of the universe is
uniformly distributed, and" all substance in the universe is at
the same temperature."3 In that hour we may consider that the
last faint ripple of the flow of the great tide we have been watch-
ing will have sunk into the trough-the first period of God's
Breath, of untold length though it was, will have ended at last.
III
We have now pursued the dissolution of the universe through
all its stages : starting with a Primal Unity that must have been
a thousand million times as big as the space covered by our
largest telescopes, we passed down into the galaxies of which we
perceive many hundred thousand wandering in space ; those
dissolved into stars (or suns) which in their medium stage are
about a million times as big as our earth; we saw that when
these dissolve or break up from one cause or another, the wave
that arises out of the pieces that break away are planetary
worlds such as we, one millionth, or thereabouts, the size of its
forerunner; and finally we saw the waves of the physical
universe sink into the ripple of our satellites, which have any-
thing from I/8Ith to I6 millionths of the weight of the planets,
and, being composed of completely ionised atoms, may be
regarded as the dead ashes of the universe. Through all these
stages of regular decrease, there is only one thing that shows a
steady increase, and that is the emanation from matter in
dissolution, namely, the almost immaterial waves of radiation.
But, that the goal of this whole process is not the production
of dead suns or even radiation seems obvious;. Jeans says:
''The radiation of Io,ooo dead universes may for aught we
know be wandering round space," therefore one more or less
can make very little difference ! If '' nothing less than the
radiation from hundreds of thousands (of universes) would be
susceptible of scientific measurement "4 the dissolution of one
1 Eos., p. sr.
1 Ibid., p. 13.
2
Mys. Un., p. 144· .
' Eos., p. 49·
FROM NEBUL~ TO ASHES I09
is of very small consequence as regards the material impression
it may leave behind, and dead worlds like the moon, have no
importance whatsoever. We therefore seem to have reached not
only the dead end of worlds, but the end of a whole system, the
final running down of the cosmic clock.
But I must hereagainremind myreaderthat we are not watch-
ing all this as disinterested spectators, but as inquirers into the
nature of Periodicity, and we have undoubtedly found that this
law is as true to itself in the vast dimensions of cosmic bodies,
as it was in the invisible ones of atoms. In cosmology we have
seen the great waves of nebulre and stars, increasing and decreas-
ing, carrying along with them the smaller ripples of the periodic
activities of the " variables "-but these periodic notions are
one and all absorbed in the vast entropy movement of the
Whole, which leads inexorably to the final going up in smoke-
that is in energy ! In every form cognisable in the universe
there are the waves, but there is also the great tide carrying
them onwards to their destination-on earth we may call it tide,
but when it sweeps the entire universe along on its way, I call
it the Breath of God-and like the tide, this is also going out to
its predestined ebb, the completed exhalation. In it there are
also countless rises and falls, those of universes, of atoms, of the
vibrations of light and energy-all contributing their share to
the formation of a " finite but unbounded " period in the
existence of something greater.
Having reached this point, it looks very much as if we had
attained a trough from which no wave could ever rise again to
another crest, but if another formation of mass were not at all
the object, and all this dissolution were final as far as matter is
concerned-for what could ever raise the spatial temperature
to the degree necessary to crystallise radiation into matter once
more if the dissolution of everything we know could only raise
it eleven degrees ?-may it not have been a preparation for the
birth of something altogether new, for the rise of which it was
necessary that the· material world should die ? This must not
be regarded as meaning reincarnation, any more than does the
birth of a young oak tree out of the acorn dropped by the old.
We should rather imagine it to be the turn of the tide rising from
the final ebb of the universe of matter. In all the rises and falls,
as mass decreased, immaterial radiation increased, the change
was always from the substantial and visible to energy, the most
intangible of all universal material. Applying to this process the
idea of a great breath, does not the picture we have drawn of the
evolution of matter correspond perfectly to the process of a
IIO THE WORLD BREATH
breath emitted by a body of any kind? Let us consider breath
as such for a moment. Is it not the burnt up material that is
emitted by the lungs, and as it pours out, does it not scatter
in space? Even here the simile is exact, for matter not only·
dissolves, but as we saw, becomes more and more scattered, and
it is no heresy to-day to assert that all things are receding from
some central point in the long past towards their end in ultimate
dissolution. And this is all that matters from my point of view,
for it is the most perfect confirmation of my theory that we have
thus far been witnessing the emission of something that scatters
as it is put forth-as would a breath-on the vastest scale ever
conceived by human mind.
But if all things are receding yet the universe is finite where
will this recession end ? Even though nothing is moving in
straight lines as was once thought, and every body in space
travels in circles round a "finite but unbounded universe,"
melting into radiation as it does so, yet even this must come
to an end eventually, for this word " finite " sets some kind of
limit, if it be not by a where, then by some kind of when. When
all things have scattered that can do so, and every mass has
turned into waves, does the role of entropy cease at last, and
may we write the word FINE in rays of light across the depths
of space ? Is death the goal of all this vast upheaval ? " Thou
fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die, and
that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body which shall
be, but bear grain, it may chance, of wheat or of some other
grain."l
Let us turn to our idea of breath once more. We all know
there comes a point when the breather has reached his limit, and
although his exhaled breath continues to wander in space, his
system requires a fresh intake of oxygen in order that it may
live. " Dissolution is not death, but dissolution is of a com-
pound ; it is dissolved, not so that it may be destroyed, but that
it may become renewed."2 If we can believe in some Oneness,
as immense and all-embracing as God, must not His breath
be on a scale unimagined by human mind ? Is it not perfectly
in keeping with a conception so vast that His Being should go
on transforming itself into radiation for millions of millions of
years in order to produce the " infinitesimal amount of inert
ash " which shall give rise to the new stuff that is required for
the intake of new life ? Such a system must also necessarily
be " finite but unbounded "-therefore in every respect the
universe conforms to the idea of the Breath of God.
1 I Cor. XV, 36. a T.G.H., II, p. 209.
FROM NEBUL£ TO ASHES III
If this suggestion be accepted, and it be admitted, that at the
point we have here reached, matter, the outfiowing breath, has
attained its uttermost limit, we shall realise that we have
reached the ebb of the vastest tide in all creation, that which
contains within itself all breakers, all ripples, ali vibrations,
pulsations and undulations; and now there is no possible way
left for the universe to take except that of inflow. If any signs
of such a thing be discernible, we must obviously seek to find
them in the very elements of the last remnants of the ebbing
physical world, since we know that in nature there can be no
altogether fresh start out of nothing ! Let us therefore begin
by a closer examination of the products of this earth, for
clearly it, or any planet stage, can alone give birth to the new
life that is to start on the journey back to the Source, since here
the physical elements, although already reduced to ashes,
compared to suns, are not yet quite dead-and from a com-
pletely dead satellite there would be nothing more to hope.
Our earth may be regarded as the hard shell of the nut, which,
though dead itself, is yet alive enough to hold in its heart a life
that shall some day point its head into the sky.
CHAPTER II
LIFE THE PHffiNIX
I
B
EFORE man's place in the great Law of Periodicity can
be realised at its true value, it must be shown that he
plays his part in the great Breath of God, as much as do
the stars. If this Law be auniversal one, the human being, so
different in character to the elements, must have its place in
the evolution of the whole, not necessarily less important than
nebulre, nor more than atoms, merely its particular part.
In the last chapter we spoke of atoms of hydrogen being
propelled into this universe by some force unknown, and showed
that they not only revolved upon themselves by action of the
Law of Gravitation, but that their original impetus gave them a
forward motion that has continued ever since. Now we know
that atoms emit energy, but we must also remember that
according to the Law of Entropy, energy is in process of being
transformed from a more available to a less available form,
" we are undoubtedly in the stage of the running down hill of
energy."1 At the same time there is another point about energy
that we must never forget, namely, that nowhere and in no
place is there any mention of its being destroyed, therefore we
may presume that it is indestructible. It may develop from one
form into another, cause atomic alterations that change the
face of matter ; it may cause systems of gigantic proportions
to sink to dust, but throughout all these changes its amount
in the universe remains unaltered, the sum-total is always the
same. "Energy is indestructible as regards its amount, but it
continually changes in form."2
This very change of energy may be the explanation of the
origin of our whole universal system. If in an anterior state
energy, or its equivalent, changed its form, could this not have
propelled the material ingredients of that anterior nature
outward, which ingredients then took the form of our universe ?
The fact that energy is the power that governs all changes in
1 Un. Ar. Us., p. 319. 2 Ibid., p. 317.
112
LIFE THE PH<ENIX II3
the universe, taken together with the further fact that it and 1
protons and. electrons seem to have been born in the same l
breath, (taken literally) makes it appear likely that they belong
to an entirely different order of things to that which govefilE(__--.
our destructible universe. " The formation of condensations
must have had the start of the conversion of mass into radia-
tion. . . . To my mind this rather suggests that the primordial
material consisted of hydrogen (or equiva1ently free protons
and electrons), since there would then be less opportunity for
the conversion of mass into radiation. . . . So long as they
are not combined into complex nuclei, protons and electrons
are immune from annihilation."1 Considering all these facts
it seems to me we have ample reason for assuming that energy
is of the essential nature of the power behind these changing
worlds, which projected the waves of hydrogen-energy from
out of Itself, and will, in all probability, draw the eventual
issue back into Itself once more.
Until now we have been in the period of outflow, but I
venture to think that with the advent of life we enter a
new phase altogether. In the entire process we have pursued
thus far, energy has been ruled by the law of Entropy, and all
its changes have ·been unidirectional; it is just possible to con- -.~
ceive, however, that, although it may have been transformed
into forms ever less available for material manifestations,
yet at the same'time it may have altered to a more available
form for the construction of an entirely new and different set
of phenomena, which arise with the appearance of life, rare
occurrence though this appears to be in the universe.
Astronomers maintain that there are probably very few stars
in the whole universe with planets on which life might be
produced ; Eddington computes it at "perhaps not one in a
hundred million of stars."2 If one considers, not only our
own Galactic system, but the million or more other spiral
nebulre, this appears. at first sight to be an almost incredible
paucity of life productive materials! There are two facts,
however, which make this apparent miserliness on the part
of the Creator with regard to the production of life quite
comprehensible: firstly, the fact that the most usual form of
break-up in stars is rotational, which produces a double star
and not planets-at least one star· in three is double-and it
is practically certain that a double star will not have planets.
Secondly, as Eddington says : " By elimination of alternatives,
it appears that a configuration resembling the solar system
1 Exp. Un.• p. 55• 2 N,P.W., p. 177.
H
II4 THE WORLD BREATH
would only be formed if at a certain stage of condensation an
unusual accident had occurred. According to Jeans, the
accident was the close approach of another star, casually
pursuing its way through space ... it must not have passed·
too rapidly, but have slowly overtaken or been overtaken by
the sun. By tidal distortion it raised big protruberances in
the sun and caused it to spurt out filaments of matter which
have condensed to form the planets."1 Jeans says that the
chance of a star thus forming a planetary system is one in
5X Io17 years, which makes it about as probable as the meeting
of any two out of twenty tennis balls roaming the whole interior
of the earth t If on such odds depends th~ birth of a system
in which the conditions are conducive to the production of
life, we should be justified in considering ourselves as some-
what of a freak, and indeed, unless it could be shown that life
is not limited to such rare formations, but that on the contrary
it might possibly arise in any part of the universe in dissolution,
it would not be worth our while giving it any further considera-
tion in a universal scheme. But before dismissing it off-hand,
I should like to examine the conditions which contributed
to its birth a little more closely ; perhaps it may be possible to
discover a chance of those conditions arising independently
of planetary systems.,.-admitting, of course, that all life
in the universe is not necessarily designed on the model of
earth life!
We should remember to begin with that nebulre are breaking
up into ever smaller units, and at the same time running away
from one another, scattering through the universe, but never
completely decomposing into dust, for when their component
parts, the stars, have reached the dwarf stage: "the great
majority of their atoms are stripped bare down to their nuclei
and so are immune from annihilation. . . . No further con-
traction is then possible for no further rings remain to be
ionised, and even the central temperatures of the white stars
are insufficient to produce any appreciable nuclear disintegra-
tion. As regards further dissolution, the white dwarf state is
one of complete stagnation, changes in mass and luminosity
being unappreciable within periods comparable with the
whole life of ordinary stars.... Fowler finds that in the last
stage, all the nuclei and electrons of a white dwarf may be
regarded as forming one gigantic molecule which is in its lowest
quantum state. In this stage it emits no radiation and its·
energy cannot be further diminished."2 This being the case,
1 N.P. W., p. 177. 2 .A.st. &- Cos., ~ 166.
LIFE THE PHCENIX II5
then in time there should not only be a larger amount of stars
reduced to white dwarfs, but since the spiral nebulre are
condensing more and more into stars, there must also be an
additional supply from that direction, and the chance of two
s£ars coming close to one another would eventually not be as
remote as it is at present-there might be thirty-five tennis
balls available instead of twenty! From this point of view
alone the chances of life-production increase in inverted
ratio to the entropy action in nebulre. ·
There seems to be another possibility besides that dependent
on these rare coincidences however : the luminosity and ergo
the, heat of a star proceeds from the annihilation of atoms, and
" as this is not a property of terrestial atoms, we are led to
suppose that the stellar atoms which experience annihilation
are unknown on earth and therefore of atomic number higher
than 92." Further, as we know from the story of radio-
active atoms on this earth, that they are continually in process
of falling from higher to lesser capacities of radiation, so we
may assume that star atoms do the same, and there is no reason
for excluding the possibility of their falling to number 92
and lower; once their luminosity ceases we have, of course,
no further means of gauging their fate. Stars in that condition
·would certainly be classed as what Jeans calls the" dead ash,
of stars, and undoubtedly from the point of view of radiation
our earth may be considered to have been dead at the time when
it produced living organisms. Its matter had certainly come
as near as could be to extinction, and yet it is precisely in this
dead matter that the new form of energy arose. We are
obliged to take these facts for granted, for although we may
dissect living matter into oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen and
Ca!"bon, it has never been explained why these in combination'
should have produced life. It is clear that here there enters
an entirely new factor onto the stage of cosmic evolution.
Whereas heretofore it was possible to define the nature of that
which arose out of the combination of various atoms, or their
dissolution, now we are confounded by the fact that four
species of atoms in combination, with no other assets
that we know of, produce the quite unwarranted effect
of a "spiritual, that is purposive activity, which, by
intercepting solar radiation and magazining it in unstable
carbon compounds, has evolved complex and elaborate self-
repeating organic mechanisms."1 If this be true, then it seems
1 "Some Reflections on the New Cosmogony." Prof. H. Wildon Carr,
J.P.S., Vol. IV, p. 15.
II6 THE WORLD BREATH
to me unquestionable that it must be a normal event in
the universe, that inaniinate matter should "produce life
in due course when the environment is suitable." But in
that case, we cannot possibly continue relegating it to
planets, and we should certainly be able to discover it
existing under other conditions besides those common to ·this
earth.
The first question that rises to my mind is: if among atoms
reduced to a certain degree of non-radiation, life can emerge;
could it not so emerge on the stars themselves when their
surfaces had been reduced to sufficiently low temperatures
and ceased to radiate? In support of this theory we have the
following facts: (a) in relation to the origins of life on this
earth, it has been assumed that: "when the sun's light was
partly shut off by watery and gaseous vapours, the early v·olcanic
condition of the earth's surface may have supplied life with
fundamentally important chemical elements, as well as with
the heat energy of the waters or of the soils.''1 This assumption
is given further weight by the fact that the most primitive
organisms to be found on the earth to-day "are dependent
on heat rather than on light for their energy."2 (b) That "in
their power of finding energy or food in a lifeless world the
bacteria known as prototrophic or 'primitive feeders' are
not only the simplest known organisms, but it is probable that
they represent the survival of a primordial stage of life
chemistry. These bacteria derive both their energy and their
nutrition directly from inorganic chemical compounds: such
types were thus capable of living and flourishing on the lifeless
earth even before the advent of continuous sunshine....
It is noteworthy that it is the nitrogen derived from waters and
soils, rather than from the atmosphere, which plays the
chief part in the life of these organisms. . . . A second point
of great significance is that these nitrifying organisms are
heat-loving and light-avoiding.... They carry on their
activities best in the absence of sunshine."3 The author of
this work saves me the trouble of underlining the words that
seem to me absolutely decisive for my contention. He evidently
thinks these facts as important as I do-even though th,e
conclusion he draws from them may be totally different;
to me it seems that these facts imply that life might quite
conceivably occur on a star that was no more actively radiating
as are the stars we see, but which had sunk to what is called a
dead sun, only radiating sufficiently to produce a surface
1 Or. 0> Ev., p. 31. 2
Ibid., 45· 3 Ibid., 381.
LIFE THE PHCENIX II7
temperature modest enough to contain unionised atoms and
support life, as does this non-radiating planet.
Furthermore, let us consider another possibility: at least
one in every three stars is what is called a binary, a double star
as we saw above; of these one is often very large whilst its
sister is very small and old. Might not a combination of two
such stars in a much cooler state than that in which we see
them at present produce the required conditions for the
emergence of life ? The smaller of these stars would naturally
have cooled down. and ceased to radiate long before its com-
panion, and at a given period in this process of cooling, certain
atoms might have radiated themselves down to carbon, the
atoms of which possess the unique capacity for stringing them-
selves .into long chains of hundreds and thousands instead of
into twos and threes like other atoms-which gives them the
structure-building capacity to which we owe the beginning
of life, according to Eddington. The larger star, on the other
hand, would continue to radiate light and heat onto the
surface of its older sister long after that had burnt· itself out.
Would not these two then develop a perfectly reasonably
life-productive condition: what else is our earth .but a con-
struction of non-radiating atoms, with its surface heated by
direct rays from outside, which description may probably
equally accurately apply to some phase in the course of the
life of binary stars! A greater or lesser temperature than that
prevalent on our earth would seem to me no objection ; it is
surely not imperative that every form of life should be identical
-nature, even on our small globe, is incredibly prolific and
adapts herself to the most varied conditions, why not also to
the production of life on a twin sun basis ?
Let us further consider this earth's geological history.
There is a theory according to which the great part of the water
on earth has been produced from its interior, by the vaporous
discharges of hot springs whilst it was still in a highly volcanic
condition. This might quite conceivably occur on stars that
had cooled and hardened, in a state beyond the white dwarf
stage. Of course, I must also admit that our primordial
earthly atmosphere was: "heavily charged with water vapour
{H20), which has since largely been condensed by cooling,"l
and there is no proof that any other heavenly body finds
itself thus surrounded by a kind of envelope, but there is no
reason why one of the very ancient binary stars might not
produce it, given the possibility of volcanic springs. Admitting
1 Ibid., p. 40.
rrS THE WORLD BREATH
the chance of these occurrence!, for the rest we need only look
to the picture furnished by eur earth. If once we can imagine
such a cool star to have water from any source whatsoever
on its surface, "the chief elements essential for the energy ·
and nutrition of nitrifying bacteria, namely, sodium, potassium,
calcium and magnesium with potassium nitrate and ammonium
salts as a source of nitrogen,"l could accumulate in the water
or damp soils. Even in arid regions of this earth, the ammoni-
fying bacteria do not exist on the dry surface rocks, but act
vigorously in the soils not only at the surface, but also in the
lower layers at depths of from six to ten feet, where moisture
is constant and the porous soil well aerated, thus giving rise
to a nitrogen-nourished substratum. On the stars we have
been imagining, it might possibly occur that there were living
things with roots far longer than eight or ten feet, going down
into the volcanic water at depths undreamed of in this earth.
All this may seem fantastic, but I refuse to admit that this
new and far more perfect stage of evolution into which nature
has entered should be a mere side-track evolved by the freak
formation of a few rare planets I But although the production
of life be not so rare as may seem at first sight, this does not
mean that men, as such, are not an extremely young product
in the universe-a " nova," to speak in astronomical terms-
which owes its survival in all probability to some chance
combination of freaks which produced some grouping of
genes, better adapted to surrounding conditions than were
others ; but of that later.
For the moment, going back to what was said above, about
the downhill path of energy, we know that earth atoms are in
a condition of very much lower energy than are those in the
stars ; according to the entropy gradient we consist of energy
in a state of much less availability than they. Therefore, if in
the present comparatively young state of the universe there
can only be supposed to exist about one planetary system
in a hundred million, as the universe grows older and more
broken up and dilated and cooler, will not the conditions be
more and more favourable for the production of life ? We
have watched Entropy working its way through eight to ten
million years, and then at last, out of the scatte:r;ed order it
has produced, we suddenly discover, in a small comer of the
universe, the first faint glimmer of a new order-one that seems
inclined to concentrate instead of scattering; ascend the scale
that matter had been descending.
1 Or. & Ev., p. 84.
LIFE THE PHffiNIX
Regarded in itself, life seems a very small thing for so vast
an order to have produced, and it might seem a presumption
to imagine that it is " the final climax towards which the whole
creation moves, for which the millions. of millions of years of
transformation of matter in uninhabited stars and nebulre,
and of the waste of radiation in deserted space have only been
an incredibly extravagant preparation."1 But even though it
be a presumptuous idea, I feel sure this is the truth, and that
the material worlds in their dying states will finally all be
capable of producing the low energy on which some form of life
may feed itself.
It seems to me that I have now said enough to show that this
new order may prove to be a universal order, like every one
that preceded it, and not merely a blind alley ; and this being
so, it is incumbent on us to study it in its entirety, as a
phenomenon of cosmic nature, in order to realise what it
stands for and where it might lead.
II
At the very outset of our investigation of life we are con-
fronted by a ·fact that is even more astounding than the
emergence of life itself, namely, that living things seem to
run counter to the inexorable Law of Entropy. Apparently
life alone in the,whole universe is collecting instead of scatter-
ing, co-ordinating instead of shuffling. Life is like a man
walking up the down-moving side of the escalator, and in
so doing it is also moving counter to everything we have
studied hitherto. This fact has led me to the idea that this
may signify that when life emerged, the universal forces started
on a new course altogether. There is certainly every appear-
ance of this being the case, and looking at life in its first infancy
we find unmistakable confirmation of this idea. Atoms of
oxygen and hydrogen being capable of combining with carbon-
instead of dissociating as we see them do in physics and
chemistry-eventually formed the first bacteria. Now it is
a well-known fact that atoms in combination do produce
unforeseen results ; Professor Henderson, after an exhaustive
study of the unique properties of the above-mentionedelements
and of their inter-relationship, arrives at the conclusion that :
11
no mechanical cause whatsoever is conceivable of those
original conditions, whatever they may be, which unequivo-
cally determine the changeless properties of the elements,
1 Un. Ar. Us., p. 335·
120 THE WORLD BREATH
and the general characteristics of the systems alike. We are
therefore led to the hypothesis that the properties of the three
elements are somehow a preparation for the evolutionary
process."! Thus at the outset we get a relation of three
elements which, so far as we know, here combined for the first
time, although they are all to be found in the solar spectrum.
Osborn even says: "it is interesting to trace them back from
the earth into the sun and thus into cosmos. It is through
these 'properties' which in life subserve 'functions' and
• adaptations,' that all forms of life from ~d to man are
linked with the universe. . . . In general the important life
elements are very widely distributed in the stellar universe,"2
there are in fact " no elements in living matter which are not
found in its lifeless environment."3 Which facts are another
proof in support of my contention that life may be more
universal than is generally believed. If the necessary elements
are widely distributed, why.should they not combine elsewhere
as they have on earth?
The next question that arises is how these four life elements,
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and carbon could have joined
together for the first time, and here we may well leave a small
crack open for the agency of chance, unless we conclude that
it is in the very nature of these elements to attract one another
into groups in order to form living phenomena ? Whatever
the reason may be, we must regard energy as the medium
which preceded and made possible the formation of the life
germ, and that energy which caused dissolution to reach its
limits, is perhaps now starting on a new and upward path.
If the final reduction of matter to " dead ash " and radiation
ends the output of the breath of God, and if we agree in regard-
ing that breath as some form of n1ighty energy power, we may
take it that it now starts on its backward journey; accepting
Newton's third law, we might say that the period of reaction
has set in. I, taking my law of waves, say : matter having
dissolved into the trough, there now begins a re-collecting
process, are-ascension that must eventually lead to the supreme
crest, to the fullness of God.
Where and how this new beginning originated it is difficult to
·say. According to Jeans, the dissipation of energy into heat
is the end of cosmic evolution, but this is not the last word, for
in the biological realm we run up agafust another factor :
" when we look back at the past history of life, we see definitely
1 Spirit in Evolution, p. 172.
8 Sc. of Life, p. 394·
2 Or. 0- Ev., p. 46.
LIFE THE PH<ENIX I2I
enough that through all the five hundred million years of
adequate record, biological progress though slow and somewhat
devious has been sustained,"! which progress is shown to
depend on the development of a " more elaborate and delicate
brain-machinery." Admitting then that biology is following
some kind of progressive upward grade, contrary to what
physical science has taught, it is interesting to follow it back-
wards, as we formerly remounted the entropy gradient ; we
then discover that all the elements in the construction of
living organisms are of low atomic weight, and, as do all atoms
in dissolution, develop agreat amount of heat in combination,
which facts make it appear probable that the birth of life
must have taken place in the meeting of various elements in
dissolution. But the problem is: where are the special con~
ditions which would be conducive to a meeting of these
particular elements to be found ? It is now practically certain
that the sea was not Life's birthplace as was thought at first,
for, although the salt sea, as it is now, is a perfect agent for the
production of life, the water of the primal ocean was relatively
fresh, and did not contain the essential " earth-born nitrogen
compounds." We can therefore conclude that: "the lowest
organisms originated either in moist earths or in those terrestial
waters which contain nitrogen. Nitrite and nitrate occasionally
arise from the union of oxygen and nitrogen in electrical dis-
charges during ~thunderstorms, and were presumably thus
produced before life · began. These and related nitrogen
compounds so essential for the .development of protoplasm
may have concentrated in pools of water to degrees par-
ticularly favourable for the origin of protoplasm."2 That
life originated in water is impossible to doubt for two reasons:
(a) the fitness of water to life, both as a solvent of all bodily
fluids, and as the container of hydrogen, oxygen and other
chemical compounds vital to the construction of living
material: (b) the electric property of water known as the
" di-electric " constant. Although it is itself only slightly
dissociated into ions, it carries dissolved electrolytic substances,
and therefore possesses electric conductivity to a high degree_:_
a matter of the greatest importance for the development of the
"electric energy of .the molecUles and atoms in ionisation."
In the last few years though, two discoveries have been made
that have thrown fresh light on this abstruse problem of the
origin of life, "one is the fact that light, even without chloro-
phyll to act as a transformer, can effect various chemical
1 Ibid., p. 480. 2
01'. &- Ev., p. 38.
122 THE WORLD BREATH
syntheses. Under the influence of light, small quantities of
sugar and other organic substances, some of them nitrogen-
containing, are generated from a mixture of such simple
substances as water, carbon-dioxide and ammonia."!
To-day such substances are only manufactured in much smaller
quantities, for it was chiefly the ultra-violet rays that were
responsible for such chemical transformations, and now most
of them are stopped by the oxygen in our atmosphere. But
'' in those primeval times the oxygen-content of the atmosphere
was certainly lower, perhaps almost absent, and so the light
could get to work to some purpose."2
The second discovery made in these matters is one that is
for our theme absolutely vital, and puts my idea of the birth
and growth of life out of the death of universes, on a firmer
basis than ever. There are, namely, creatures that are actually
on the borderland between dead and alive, the bacteriophages
or bacterium consumers. '' These ultra-microscopic units are
able to grow and multiply so long as they are given a supply
of living bacteria to consume. Dead bacteria are no good."
But given bacteria to live on their numbers increase rapidly.
''D'Herelle, who discovered them, believes they are alive,
because they multiply. Others say they are only an excep-
tionally active kind of ferment which happens to be knocking
about the outside world, but is helpless to make more of itself
except out of matter that is truly alive. The truth may lie
between these two views. If living matter has originated from
dead (italics author's) then we shall expect that intermediate
conditions should exist. In these bacteriophages we have
perhaps discovered the 'missing link' (that which :first arose
out of the meeting of various elements in dissolution !) between
two states of matter.... These are but hints ... but they
help to confirm our opinion, based on .a general weighing of
alternatives, that, as a matter of history, life on this planet
originated from not-life, that it originated at one phase and
one phase only, that it probably originated in the surface
waters of the warm early globe, and that sunlight, that ' only
begetter ' of all our terrestrial activities, played a necessary
part in its origin."a
Taking all these contributory facts and putting them
together, can we not picture to ourselves the starting-point of
life ? I see plainly before me vast desert spaces of volcanic
rock, interspersed with great lakes or oceans, with blazing
sunlight pouring down out of a sky, the intensity of which we
1 Sc. of Life, p. 395· 2 Ibid. 8
Ibid., pp. 395-6.
LIFE THE PHCENIX IZ 3
can have no idea of, even under the hottest tropical sunlight.
And then at some dawn different to any other, in some pool
in the rock, where the rays of the sun fell with concentrated
force, the impossible happened. Four elements joined together
and something stirred that had never stirred before, and laid
the foundations of a new world. What happened then ?
It seems probable that sheets of protoplasm-like substance
were produced, some of which just failed of self-reproduction
and lost life, serving as food for the one or the few, perhaps
the above-mentioned bacteriophages, which could be considered
in some sort alive.
Once life of any kind had started, there is another factor that
contributes to its further progress : '' As soon as the grouping
of chemical elements reaches the stage of an organism, inter-
action also becomes essential. . . . The principle of interaction
may apply at a distance and the result may not be contem-
poraneous. This is actually inferred to be the case in single-
celled organisms such as the Amreba."1 That form of lifeless
energy which by co-ordinating and interacting in the life
processes is found to be of vital importance to their further
evolution is called a catalyser. This is "a substance which
modifies the velocity of any chemical reaction without itself
being used up." It is probable that such a catalysing energy
is the product of two or more of the elements in combination,
and when once prbduced in the right setting it would proceed
to build up organism upon organism, but not necessarily the
same. The interaction might eventually result in millions of
different species, once. one combination had occurred. But it
must not be imagined that there is any more continuity
between one compound and another than there is continual
flow in the stream ·of light. The evolution of life must have
proceeded in steps· or, what I prefer to call periods (as did the
stars), by "saltation or mutation."
I think I have said enough to enable my reader to imagine
the birth of life and its further evolution into the first cell,
which in contrast to the mechanical evolution of inorganic
matter, continues to grow by what we might imagine to be a
first gerrn of mind, a growth which proceeds by an interchange
of oxygen and carbon-dioxide, by food intake, reactions to heat
from external agencies, procreation, even if it be only by
division or multiplication. A concentration occurs of something
that must eventually produce mind, and therefore inevitably
contains within itself the seeds of it. Bergson says : "As the
1
Or & Ev., p. 57·
I24 THE WORLD BREATH
smallest grain of dust is bound up with our entire solar system,
drawn along with it in that undivided movement of descent,
which is materiality itself, so all organised beings from the
humblest to the highest, from the first origins of life to the
times in which we are, and in all places as in all times do but
give evidence of a single impulsion, the inverse of the move-
ment of matter, and in itself undivisible. All the living hold
together and yield to the same tremendous push "1-a push
back to the being of God.
We shall now realise that the entire further march of creation,
which is of value, depends on the growth of cells, the collecting
instead of scattering of forces. The first cell became a nucleus
round which there concentrated more and more elements : air
atoms, humidity atoms, heat atoms, are all drawn upon to feed
this omnivorous creature Nature has suddenly thrown up. And
still it grows and concentrates and finally appears the first living
plant, with its precious chlorophyllian properties; not until
the chlorophyllic stage of plant evolution had been reached
was life equipped with the best means of extracting the carbon
dioxide from the atmosphere, so necessary for its further
development. As regards the time occupied by all these
developments, it is of such dimensions that it becomes a mere
mathematical concept, but just as we realise the atomic world's
activities taking place in time so short that it becomes for our
eyes no time, so must we visualise the universal pulsations
equally as no time in relation to eternity. Unless our minds
become capable of regarding the universal waves of time from
as detached a point of view as that from which they regarded
the waves of radiation, we cannot hope to arrive at any under-
standing of the vast scheme of the universe. In order to
obtain a slight idea of the meaning of the universal time-table
we must oppose to it the idea of world without end, having
done that, the 2000 million years of life which geologists
presume the earth has had, or still more the possible 300,000
years attributable to the life of homo sapiens, are merely a drop
in the ocean. Jeans gives us some idea of the meaning of this
cosmic time when he says that civilisations appear at an average
rate of I per 500 million years in the galactic system, and,
"we should probably have to visit so,ooo galaxies before finding
one as young as our own."2 Therefore we are apparently not
only an extraordinary formation, but a very young one, and
if this be so we may then attribute to our possible future
development-not the material one, for that as we have seen
1 Creative Evolution, p. 359. 2
Ast. & Cos., ~ 384.
LIFE THE PHCENIX IZ5
s already declining, but the mental or spiritual one-a time
to be reckoned by hundreds of millions of years to judge by
our past.
In considering the formation of stars in the spiral nebulre
we compared them to bubbles in a vast whirlpool. But
it is in the nature of bubbles to form one, then another, and
so on in increasing quantities. This also occurred with the
continually increasing heavenly bodies. The simile may also
be applied to the new mind-informed formation. It has steadily
increased its output since first it arose, on our earth alone,
and we may assume that although at present one civilisation
is only supposed to arise in every 500 million years in time, the
production of life may eventually become the one goal towards
which every heavenly body tends ; this is my firm conviction.
Let us now once more take up our original thread of reason-
ing. We have watched cosmic bodies of different species rise
and decline, but through all these waves there was one vast
movement of dissolution leading to the ultimate dispersal of
everything in a final state of energy ; then we see on a body
which rnay almost be regarded as the dead ash of cosmic
worlds, the rise of something absolutely new, which at once
divides the whole universe into two categories: animate and
inanimate. Being something entirely inexplainable and totally
contrary to everything the universe has shown itself to be so
far, we are forced to the conclusion that its advent marks a
new tum in the scheme of creation, something which was
perhaps the goal of that vast wave of material outflow which
was astronomic life. When energy had dissolved itself to its
minimum, it was suddenly engulfed in something else, which
is undoubtedly akin to energy, but at the same time completely
new. The living cells were, however, not themselves the goal
as it seems, for they built up colossal bodies, but it was only
when these shrank again that the truly great metamorphosis
occurred, we call it the birth of mind or soul, but we do not
thereby explain it: it is a fresh re-gathering of material forces
into a germ hitherto unknown. In the womb of living matter
there suddenly matured: man, with his unique gift of self-
consciousness. It seems preposterous to assume that vast
forces like those universal convolutions should merely have
had microscopic man as their end. Yet if, as we may perhaps
see later, man has qualifications which can carry him beyond
the universe, he is surely of greater dimensions than any
stars!
Perhaps it. may seem strange that, whereas stars take
126 THE WORLD BREATH
billions of years to inhale and exhale their life's energy,
the evolution of living substance should be reckoned by a mere
300 million; but firstly, it is only at the beginning of its career,
and secondly, is this any more strange, or does it make life
any less of a mighty factor, than are the atoms which inhale and
exhale their energy in ·ooo,ooo,ooo,oo_o,ooo,ooo,ooo,ooo,oo6·S5
erg-seconds, and yet build up universes, or than is the human
body which inhales and exhales its energy at an average rate
of seventy-two beats per minute, or the life of nature inhaling
and exhaling its energy in periods of seasons? All these things
are entirely relative and the time factor is no argument for or
against, it plays absolutely no role, it is merely a conventional
calculation adopted by man to bring order out of chaos in his
surroundings. And in relation to the Absolute, the length or
brevity of time taken by the pulsatory process, in any con-
nection whatsoever, cannot possibly have any influence on
the inferences we may draw from our observations.
III
Let us now proceed to examine the evolution of life, learn-
ing what is important to us from biology and palreontology,
but keeping ever present in mind the fact that, in everything
and everywhere, we are seeking something which is not what
we are able to see with our eyes, or touch with our hands,
but the law to which all these are subservient. We must learn
to regard life on earth as the re-accumulation of an unknown
quantity, which had hitherto been dispersing itself, and
attempt to follow it up to its final .end in all-unity. The
universe has burnt itself down to life, but life, I think we shall
find, is heaping up coals again, from the minuteness of the atom
to a vastness as yet unimaginable. We are, in short, still in
a world in the making, but as in the past we studied the
scattering according to the Law of Entropy, so now we shall
study an ingathering, a re-collection, and follow it up through
all forms, to an end that is still wrapped in clouds.
Let us to begin with be quite clear as to three facts, which
are important for all that is to follow: (1) "There has been a
hierarchical order of new modes of organisation with attendant
properties in the evolutionary past up to date. (2) There are
no grounds for supposing that there will be in future no further
steps upward in evolutionary order. (3) There are good grounds
for expecting that the new steps, if such there be, will prolong
LIFE THE PH<ENIX !27
the orderly and nowise disorderly advance of nature."1
These facts not alone encourage us on our way and confirm us
in the idea that ashes of universes are not the end, but t~ey
also contain a hint of an " upward " moving order runriing
in an opposite sense to the Law of Entropy, and I think
to-day even the most ardent advocates of that law are obliged
to admit that the science of biology rnay be outside its control.
It is, therefore, here that we must seek for them, if ever signs
are to be found of the emergence of a new force, one that has
freed itself from the rules that govern the whole evolution of
inanimate matter as the butterfly frees itself from the laws
that govern the caterpillar! G. N. Lewis says of it: u The
observation of animate nature leads to the almost irresistible
conviction that here emerges into our perception a new element
alien to the randomness that characterises the physical sciences,
indeed, living creatures are cheats in the game of physics and
chemistry. It seems that animate creatures alone are striving
for distinction in the midst of the almost overwhelming
levelling forces in the great democracy of atoms."2 J. S.
Haldane, in speaking of this seeming discrepancy between
biology and the physical sciences, maintains that, if ever
a point is found where these sciences meet, and one is
swallowed up, "that one will not be biology."3 I do
not think either will be proved more right than the other,
it will merely be recognised that each deals with a completely
different stage in the world order. We have in this work
followed the course of the one down to the birth of the second,
we shall now start with this new birth and trace its forward
march even to the threshold of possible dreams undreamt of
hitherto.
Starting from the conception that the living order of things
is a new birth, ruled by new criteria, and having seen
the new birth taking place in water, we must now proceed to
study what occurred after that. Living material rises from
bacteria to man, but between these two there is the path of
many thousands of millions of years.
The species of bacteria which were formed in the beginning
were of a kind that lived directly on the lifeless world, but were
possessed of almost all the chemical energies of the living world,
and their reactions were similar to those of the higher plant
and animal cells. Further,'' theybegan to mimic the subsequent
1 Lloyd Morgau, ].P.S., January, 1930.
2 Anatomy of Sci~nce, p. z6o.
3 J. S. Haldane: The Sciences and Philosophy, p. g6.
I28 THE WORLD BREATH
evolution of the higher plant and animal world by an adaptive
radiation into groups which respectively sought new sources· of
energy, either directly from the inorganic world, or parasitically
from the developing organic bacterial and plant foods.' '1
Although the earliest bacteria needed oxygen for combustion
in their intercellular actions and reactions, free oXygen was
fatal to them and they were obliged to draw what they needed
from inorganic or organic compounds. There followed after
these a transitional species of bacteria, able to use either free
or combined oxygen and from these there finally emerged the
higher'' spore forming bacteria'' to the existence of which free
oxygen is absolutely essential. These are the links that eventu-
ally lead to higher forms of life. They anticipated the plant
world as well as the animal world of Protozoa and Molluscs by
largely conducing to the formation of earth crust capable of
maintaining life. For instance, the iron ore found in pre-
Cambrian stratified rocks whose age is estimated at 6o,ooo,ooo
years is believed to be of bacterial origin.J
The next step is a difficult one to trace with certainty, there
is a diversity of opinions on the subject. Even at the present
_ time it is questionable whether bacteria ever reached ''·the
evolutionary stage of the typical cell, with its cell wall, its
contained protoplasm, and its distinct nuclear form and inner
substance known as chromatin.... Granules of chromatin
nature have, however, been discovered in bacteria, and all the
common forms have been found to contain nztclein, the specific
nuclear protein complex."2 Further, according to the latest
ideas there are indications that the chromatin elements repre-
sent the primary and living units or individuals, and that the
protoplasm represents the secondary products, although most
probably both chromatin and protoplasm were co-existent in
cells from the very beginning, both in bacteria and even in
ultra-microscopic forms. "We may regard chromatin as the.
basis of the entire scale of living individual formations, for as
the E!-"9~QQ!~-~1]1 is the e~p__!_ession of, so the chroma~!!! is Qle seat
of l:!.~r.edHY· . . . In the development from--uiii"cellular (pro-
tozoa) into multi-cellular (metazoa) organisms, the chromatin
is distributed through the nuclei to all the cells of the body."
Considering that_ the most original property of life-forms is
their capacity for the maintenance of any specific form through-
out all changes of matter, caused by the intake and output of
energy, chromatin becomes the substance on which hinges the
whole evolution of living phenomena. ''It is in the hereditary
t Or. 0- Ev., p. Sg. 2 Ibid.
LIFE THE PH<ENIX I29
chromatin that the ideal form is not only preserved but, through
subdivision, is carried into the germ cells of all the present
and succeeding generations. It would appear ... that the
continuation of life since it first appeared in Archreozoic times
is the continuity of the physico-chemical energies of the
chromatin . . . the evolution of life is essentially the evolution
of chromatin energy."l
I have dwelt long on this subject because from this point up
to the ultra development ·of life in its largest dimensions, it is
only a question of the increase of the multi-cellular organism
at whose birth we have now assisted. That this was born is
what matters ; how it grew and became differentiated ; what
are the causes of its evolution, are still matters of controversy
among biologists and do not concern us here. Following the
periodic law, we know from experience that all physical
phenomena in the universe, once arisen, must develop and grow
to their utmost capacity eventually to subside again, and it
would be a truly momentous discovery if we were to find that
organic forms obey this law as faithfully as did inorganic ones!
However far-fetched this idea may seem to be at first sight,
there is apparently ample justification for it. For instance,
regarding the group formations in prehistoric animals, palreonto-
logists have all agreed that they did not evolve continuously
at a uniform rate, but that, like stars, they evolved by distinct
stages, or in terraces, to use the simile we employed in astro-
nomical descriptions of such things. When, for instance,
new organs appear in the animal world, they seem to bear a
sort of "time signature,. of just one period and no other;
they seem to have appeared intermittently too, for a time one,
then a long pause and then another utterly different formation
would appear, so much so that the process has been variously
termed : cc rhythmic," " pulsating," u efilorescent," (Charles
Deperet), in fact the very same terms have been applied to this
process as we have been employing all along to describe
periodic forms of every description-which I cannot help
thinking is a definite proof that life itself has not escaped the
dominion of the periodic law I
As it seems to me important that here, at the very outset
of a consideration of organic phenomena, we should perfectly
grasp the form that periodicity is now taking, I should like to
consider for a moment the" pulsating rise, growth and decline
of some special epoch characteristics," "expression points,"
as they are called; I think, too, that this will be the best way
1 Ibid., Chapter III.
I
THE WORLD BREATH
I can take of climbing from the multi-cellular organism we
have arrived at, to man. To take the Paleozoic era, the oldest
known period wherein any traces of animal species have been
discovered, we find that a frontal hole, which was in all prob-
ability some kind of visual organ, is present in all the various,
not necessarily genetically related, groups of animals belonging
to that period. This hole appears alone in the cranium of some
early Paleozoic fishes, in others there are, beside the two normal
eyes, two frontal apertures; later the amphibians have only
one frontal aperture, which in them reached its summit of
development, and continued in the reptiles of the Permian
period, and then slowly declined and disappeared in the Meso-
zoic era, until at the present day the animals still possessing
traces of these eyes are the lampreys and certain amphibians
and reptiles-man's pineal gland is presumably a relic
of it.
The Mesozoic era is responsible for the rise of upright-
walking land animals, in contrast to the four-footed walk of
the late Paleozoic salamanders ; many of these land animals
had long and powerful hind legs and short front ones, which
enabled them to balance themselves upright-possibly in order
to reach food from the higher trees of that epoch ?-from
this the later development of birds and man. Finally, the
Tertiary period produced the species with five and four-fingered
toes, which later evolved into single-hoofed cattle, and horses, or
double-hoofed buck. Each one of these successive types pre-
dominated on earth some hundred thousand years and then
gave place to another, and, although their features are still to
be found in various animals in modified form, none has ever
been known to start up afresh when once it has subsided or
died out. Types arose and declined again as have all universal
phenomena we have traced so far. But here, however, we
must remember that we have started upon the period of reas...
sembling-we are no more in that of entropy-and therefore
there is something more than the mere growth and decline of
types. If we consider the human form, for instance, we must
realise that man has assembled in his body the physical features
that characte#sed each one of the great time eras: the frontal
eye (pineal gland), five-fingered hands, upright walk; the early
tertiary dentition, etc., which proves that every period right
back to the Paleozoic era has left its mark upon him. If we
take this fact in conjunction with the idea that no body
P?ssesses t.he "~:xpression points" of any period (iii. which it /
d1d not exist, this would mean that man's first ap~~rance on
LIFE THE PH<ENIX I3I
earth must be set back to a very much more remote date than
has been commonly assumed.
More than this I cannot say; biologists, zoologists and
palreontologists have not yet come to any agreement as to how
man arose, therefore it is useless to discuss it here;· we must
just be content to leave a gap between the birth of the multi-
cellular organisms, and the emergence of animals, amongst
which was man. What appears to be man's entirely personal
prerogative is that he continues to possess the features of all
epochs combined ; for whereas he has kept the hollow bones of
birds, the lower jaw and dentition of certain sharks and reptiles,
the ·five-fingered extremities of the mesozoic amphibia, the
kidneys and liver of early aquarian mammals, none of the
presently living descendants of prehistoric animals possess
any but one or at most two of these " expression points."
Man seems to epitomise· all the animal formations that ever
populated the earth, which leads to the suspicion that he cannot
be classified with the scattering formations in the universe,
that he has escaped the Law of Entropy, and is in some way the
pinnacle of nature's work in organic physical evolution. I shall,
therefore, take up my tale of the further evolution of this life
th~t has appeared on that rare cosmic phenomenon: a life-
producing planet, with the story of man's part on earth.
Going as far back as we may, right into legendary life, let
us attempt to start at the very beginning of this human periodic
wave, only thus can we eventually hope to survey that wave in
its full size and grandeur. The earliest legends relating to man,
preserved to us from almost prehistoric times, all contain
certain stories in common, whether we draw them from sources
in Central America or Western Asia, Northern Europe or
Africa. One of the most striking of these inherited stories of
mankind is that which tells of a primeval battle between foolish
giants with one eye in the middle of their foreheads and wise,
SJ?-all g~ds(',The newest anatomical ~iscoveries relating to the
pineal gland, show that: "At one time the vertebrate stock
had at least one eye-probably two-staring upwards from the
middle of the head ... apparently the pineal gland is a
forehead eye which first became blind and useless, and then
(at least in the higher vertebrates) was turned to another
purpose and made into a ductless gland.n1 I am not interested
in the secretions of the ductless glands, although the importance
of these in relation to growth and development is increasingly
.clear, but what ·is significant, in these .facts, for my theories
1 Sc. of L., p. 725.
132 THE WORLD BREATH
is, that they prove the truth of one part of the legends, namely,
that the one-eyed man actually existed, and if the story of the
frontal eye be true, then that of gigantic growth may be equally
accepted ; tradition could not have preserved one fact correctly
and invented the other! I am therefore not asking my reader
to believe some fantastic fable, but to realise that if the exterior
large single eye went with gigantic men of small brains, and the
smaller-sized and more highly developed man with the cerebro-
spinal-nervous system arose with the inversion and decline of
the frontal eye into the pineal gland, we are hereby learning
something regarding the mind development of mankind which
has hitherto escaped us. If this story proves true, then can
this legend, which arose in every part of the world, be regarded ·
as the earliest recorded recollection of mankind, and become of
priceless value in throwing light on dim ages of the past. To
take only two illustrations of this strange human tradition:
the Gilgamesh epic of Babylon and various illustrations in the
Maya manuscripts both tell the story of men of immense
stature with undeveloped, webbed hands and one eye, being
at war with smaller and more perfected men, " coming out of the
east., The story ends in both cases with the defeat of the giants
by the greater skill and :wisdom of the smaller, so-called '' gods."
It is clear that we have here the allegory of man endowed with
mind, overcoming animal man in the course of human evolution,
and so entering upon the era of his predominance on earth,
which has grown and spread ever since. We men are evidently
the'' expression points'' of this era, but what then?
My reader may well ask: What has all this to do with the
Law of Periodicity-the vast period of" intake'' on which we
are assumedly embarked ? I must now explain. As was seen
in the course of the nebulre, of suns, of planets, each form
increased to a certain size, and then there appeared to be a turn
of the tide, a back-swing of the pendulum, and there started
a movement of decrease, which always ended with the extinc-
tion of one form and the birth of a new. In each case, the larger
form dies from loss of its substance, in radiation, and is followed
by the emergence of a small and more numerous progeny,
which grows and increases until, in its turn, it declines, emitting
its energy in radiation. What occurred in the heavens also
occurred with animals and finally with man : he arose out of
something like an amreba, so small it can only be seen by aid
of the microscope, and grew to gigantic size; then the ti4e
turned, and, as with nebulre and stars, some force which we may
regard as the equivalent_ ot the '' radiation pressure " in the
r
I
LIFE THE PH<ENIX 133
stars-perhaps in the earth's atmosphere ?-stopped all further
growth and turned mankind onto the path of decline, from
which, in the course of time there emerged a being with much
reduced physical characteristics, which might almost be
called the ashes of the first stage of these organisms. .
But we must here remember that we are no more on the road
to dissolution but to upbuilding, and although organic forms
endowed with life follow the course of rise and fall encumbent
on all physical phenomena, thereby demonstrating the true
nature of waves and proclaiming themselves true to kind, yet,
a collecting process should be noticeable in the next rise of
wave by the emergence of something more intensive, more
perfect, more energy-full than the last. It should also have
drawn more ingredients to itself instead of being one step further
down the ladder to dissolution. And this is exactly what has
occurred: if we consider present-day man with his physical
characteristics, undoubtedly belonging to the nature of the
physical world, and his conscious mind, which, explain it as we
may, cannot be classified with any form of energy so far known
in the universe, we cannot but believe that he has collected to
himself a new, richer and more complex nature than did any
universal body before him. This being so, he is undoubtedly
as much of an advance over animal life as was animal life over
plant life-each form embued with life has so far shown pro-
gressive accumulation of power and increased energy, and
thereby become more capable of surviving the lower, less-
organised forms of existence. '' Something of the same general
nature as consciousness, we suppose, accompanies the activities
of all living matter, it maybe of all matter; but it is generally
beyon:d comparison feebler than ours, and like the electric
properties of nerve or muscle, is undetectable by ordinary
inspection and is of no specific use to the animal. . . . In the
course of evolution, however, special machinery is built up-
brain-through which these mind properties of life have been
utilised, intensified and harnessed, and finally in ourselves made
the most important biological property of the organism. . . •
The survival value of this complex choosing organisation, which
involves consciousness, is obviously very great. By means of
its enhanced powers of association and analysis, the newly
evolved human mind enables life to grasp much larger situa-
tions than it was ever capable of before "L-is it not, therefore,
obviously remounting the stairs of entropy, assisting the cards
to " re-become unshuffied " at last ? And does this not throw
1 Sc. of L., pp. 762-3.
134 THE WORLD BREATH
a new and startling light on man and his place in the vast ebb
and flow of the Breath of God ? Regarded from this point of
view, small and insignificant though he appears to be, man
becomes one of the most vital links in the whole system.
In tracing the evolution of matter from its vastest dimensions
through increase and decrease of one form after another, down
to the emergence of man, we have found that all this occurs in
strict conformity with the Law of Periodicity, that -is, not by
a slow and gradual shrinkage, but rather by contraction in
spasms. And as with the stars so with all else, each stage of
events has remained "at about the same size through a long
period of time, after which a rapid contraction occurs, followed
by another long epoch of unchanging size, another rapid con-
traction and so on."1 From these facts we may be allowed to
deducethat when living matter has attained the stage of human
beings, it there makes one more of its pauses, and after a certain
period of time, one more of these strange leaps will occur,
one more rapid contraction, and something new will emerge-
or should we regard ourselves as the final " white dwarfs 11
of
the whole physical world ? But even so, before becoming the
II ashes 11
of the universe, suns emit unmaterial radiation
which travels on through space long after they as physical
appearances are dead, therefore, on this analogy, we may also
look for the birth of a new unmaterial essence from out of the
shrinkage into " white dwarfs 11
of living organisms.
Any attempt to forecast the nature of this new emergent
must necessarily be extremely tentative. If, however, we take
into consideration the fact that with the material appearance
of mankind, a wholly new phenomenon appeared on earth
in the form of conscious mind, which with every decrease of the
man-animal as mere physical organism has but increased in
power, we may well believe that, contjnuing to increase in
inverse ratio to the decrease of such organism, it must eventu-
ally emerge free from all substance whatsoever. This will be
the greatest step ever made by the universe on its course since
the very beginning, and if we human beings be regarded as the
·cross-roads between the out-breath of matter and the in-breath
of spirit, we become a link as magnificent as the stars themselves
and as significant.
1 .Ast. b Cos., ~ 385.
CHAPTER III
AT THE CROSS ROADS
I
N pursuing the last wave of material substance as it arose,
concentrated and developed into planets, which in their turn
are now cooling and scattering, and are in all probability
on their way to dissolution and the dead ash of physical worlds,
we have arrived at a point where it is possible to imagine that
this material earth, to which we had attached so much import-
ance, is but one more wave-stage in the cosmic system. But
since no wave sinks without being superseded by another, so
is there every probability that this wave, like the rest, after
declining into its trough, will be followed by the rise of another.
of what description yet remains to be seen. Regarding it in
the light of the greater period of God's breath, we must admit
that we have here not only sunk into the trough of the wave of
physical, astronomical bodies, but that we are at the same time
attaining what looks like the trough of the whole evolution of
what we regard as the universe proper. It is the end of one vast
outbreath that has covered untold millions of years, from the
primal One to a space-time sphere, wherein everything looks
like going up in a puff of smoke-or radiation if you prefer.
If our periodic law holds good, however, within the trough we
should be able to discover the first faint sough of the indrawing
breath : the tum of the tide.
It would seem p~esumptuous perhaps to make any prophecy
with regard to the future path of the universe. but it is probable
that, if anywhere, the first traces of a new movement will
be discoverable within the womb of life. If this be so, we must
admit that never did any Heaven-scaling event arrive with
softer doves' feet ! Yet if we concede that the story of God's
breath has any chance, however slight, of being true, then surely
it might be possible to recognise in man, the highest sample of
life-endowed phenomena evolved thus far, not onlythe materials
of the dying physical order of things, but also the germs of an
altogether new form of energy : conscious mind. The physical
world of non-radiant atoms might be the ashes of suns, the end
135
THE WORLD BREATH
of one great process, that of the exhalation of energy, but the
physical world embued with life may contain the first symptom
of the next stage, that of inhalation ! Is MAN in the universe
perhaps that first faint puff of air that presages the dawn?
To my mind there is no doubt that the Law of Periodicity
is here as clearly defined as it has been in anything we have
witnessed so far. In every case when a system has reached the
trough, this law demands that a new wave should arise out
of the death of the old, and strictly in accordance with that
law, there are distinct traces in the nature of the human organ-
ism of the birth of something new-of that which may become
a great a-material wave that must finally end at the One-All
once more. And as we watched the wave of the material
universe rise, decline and disperse, so is it now our turn to look
for the rise of the re-entrant : energy or spirit.
It was necessary that the whole universe should be reduced
to ashes in order that life might emerge, and perhaps we shall
discover that men embued with life-plus-mind are the first step
in a new order altogether. But all organic formations, even man
the most evolved, are still more than half material, that is,
composed of inorganic elements, which means that they are
still bound to the wheel of the conditions that have governed
the whole inorganic universe. I said "more than half"
intentionally, for there is the rest that is not material : mind,
consciousness, spirit or whatever you like to call it. If it could
be shown that this is the first spark that will eventually give
rise to something that has freed itself altogether from physical
conditions, then would self-conscious man become, not only
the trough of the material universe, but the cross ways between
matter and a non-material world. The first manifestation of
such consciousness or mind would then be the torch-bearer of
a new condition altogether, which, continuing to evolve in
the way it has begun, must eventually give rise to a wave
altogether free from the shackles of space-time, gases, minerals
or any other property of the physical world.
But if we are to regard the human being as the bridge
between a material and a non-material world, as the barrier
which cuts across the evolution of the physical universe and
turns it back onto a new path, it is obvious that our first care
should be to consider the reasons we have for such an assump-
tion, and the first question that rises to the mind is : has man
ever shown any symptoms of being aware of a greater role for
mankind than that played in the immediate present? Is
there anything common to all humanity,some beliefor intuition,
AT THE CROSS-ROADS I37
that gives us a hint of man's dual status, fruit of the past, seed
of the future ? Let us look through the world around us and
see if there be anything that might lead us to suspect that deep
down in his inner consciousness, man is aware of st~nding at
the cosmic cross-roads. If we accept the evidence of inspired
words pouring out from some fountain Within-perhaps from
man's subconscious mind, which communicates many things to
the brain, largely in symbols, and which the intellect interprets
or not·as it may-I think it may be possible to discover some
sign, some word, used by all mankind since the very beginning,
which might express an awareness of the true nature of man.
If such is to be found, it is surely among the mystic symbols
used by the human race from time to time. In seeking among
these we :find to our amazement that there is one sign that has
been used consistently, at all times and in all places, namely,
the sign of the Cross.
I do not think there is anyone so parochial to-day as to assert
that this symbol is an exclusively Christian one, for where-
ever we find traces of past civilisations, this sign is invariably
present. I also think that the migratory explanation of these
things has long since been abandoned in favour of the theory
that, on reaching a· certain stage of evolution, man expresses
himself in identical terms all the world over. Therefore it
seems perfectly reasonable to claim for the sign of the Cross
the privilege of marking the first rise of the religious idea in the
mind of primitive man, in fact its rise seems almost synonymous
with the first rise of self~consciousness.· Although its original
significance got lost in the course of .time, later generations
still carried on the symbol, sensing in it something eternal.
As tllis fact is of the utmost importance for the story of
mankind, let us without bias as to where our investigations may
lead us, examine the various forms of the sign of the Cross, and
enquire into the role they have played in different lands and
civilisations. I think th~t nearly all anthropologists are agreed
to-day in thinking that the worship of the Cross originally arose
from the use of cross-sticks to induce fire amongst the most
primitive civilisations. Fire was and is, to all primitive men,
a manifestation of deity, something supernatural which a
benevolent deity uses as ablessing to man, and an angry one as
a death-dealing weapon ; and the worship of the God of Fire-
Agni, Loki, etc.-was an important part of early religion in
every land.
Now, as soon as man began to realise that there was some-
thing within himself that was more than, and apart from, the
THE WORLD BREATH
physical life of stones or plants, and at the same time recognised
that his body was warm for no reason that he could see, he
naturally identified this "soul'·' life with fire or :flame. From
this follows quite naturally that the cross-sticks which induced
fire should have been transmuted into the cross out of which
must rise the soul-fire. Later, as men came to think more
deeply and realised their own imperfections, the idea of a new
and more perfect birth 11
by fire and by water," rose to their
minds, as hope and consolation, and again this new birth could
not have been more perfectly symbolised than by the same sign
of the Cross. And so it came about that the Cross was on the
one hand the physical emblem of the maker-of-fire-body, and
on the other the symbol of the living, restless, warm, new
appearance: life, which to the untutored mind is indistinguish-
able from " soul." Considering all these things I have no hesita-
tion in regarding the Cross as the emblem which has symbolised
man's subconscious awareness of his position in the universe,
midway between the old order and the new. But at the same
time it has always had for men's minds some hidden connection
with their God: that new soul-fire was felt to have the same
relationship to a more perfect condition as has the small fire
on the hearth to the great God Agni whose attribute it is.
As the world went on and man progressed, the origin of this
cross symbolwas lost, but its meaningwas carried on unchanged.
In Egyptian hieroglyphs, for instance, the ankh T is the
symbol for life and livirig. This Cross, which is like a man with
his arms outstretched, is remarkable for the fact that, whereas
the lower parts of it are thick and material, the head is the 0
which in all mysteries stands for eternity. Life would seem to be
symbolised here as crucified in matter, and out of this cruci-
fixion rises mind or spirit-a new life that must push up into
eternity. Is it therefore very far-fetched to regard this cross as
signifying the vertical way of the mind soaring upwards and
piercing through horizontal matter, to attain spirit eternal ? It
would not be in any way out of keeping with Egyptian thought,
especially when one finds that they placed this sign on the gar-
ment of their kings ; in the tombs as an amulet to accompany
the dead on their way beyond the grave; and on the funerary
papyrii whenever the incidents of passing on are portrayed.
Used in this manner, the ankh must signify eternal life to all
connected with it. ·
In India the Swastika !fi has always stood for the wheel
of rebirth, and was more especially the symbol for Vishnu-the
AT THE CROSS-ROADS 139
Preserver-who is the second in the Triad of Dieties that typify
the evolution of existence : he is the middle between the
~reator Brahma and the Destroyer Shiva. The swastika is also
held to be the symbol for the rise and set of the sun, the birth,
growth and decay of man, and here again this is represented
by two arms : body and soul. Apart from India, the swastika
is also to be found in the Maya ruins of Mexico, the lake dwell-
ings of Switzerland, on the earliest Scandinavian potteries, in
Etruria, amongst the American Indians, and an example of it
was even found recently on proto-Elamite pottery at Souza, a
locality entirely off the line of migrations, and its existence here,
although apparently an isolated and sporadic case, is the
earliest known.l
Lastly there is the well-known Tautic cross T which has
symbolised the tree of life at various times and places over all
the earth. In Scandinavia it represented Thor's hammer which
stood for the victory of the Gods-men with mind or soul--over
the forces of the underworld. In Greece it is to be found on the
garments of Aphrodite, whose rise from the waves always
symbolised the birth of the soul, or re-birth into higher realms.
There it aiso stood for the double Omega, the dual sign of the
death of one system and the birth of another. There is besides
every reason to believe that the hierophant, on initiation into the
new birth, was marked with a sign which was in India, Egypt
and Israel the Tautic cross; the celebrated mark of Ezekiel is
supposed to have been this very sign. Therefore we see arising
out ofthe subconscious mind of all mankind this recognition not
simply of eternal life, which might arise from the desire for it,
but of a new life.
I think it is perfectly possible that the highest initiates of
antiquity understood the true significance of the sign they
dispensed to the people, and that it was known to the High
Priests of every land. In attempting to solve the mystery of
"'hat was really meant by the use of this sign, we may discover
that the consciousness of the true nature of man was not born
to-day, but was a sacred tradition, never taught to the
" people," on the principle that : " seeing they see not ; and
hearing they hear not, neither do they understand."
The fundamental teaching of all mystery religions was, as we
know, that this life is only a preparation for a greater one, and
1 Note : Christian archreologists consider this ~ to be the oldest form of
the sign of the Cross ; and the Indian word Swastika means " salvation,"
for Swasti was in India what the ceremony of baptism, or salvation, is for
Christians. See Burnouf: Seimu des. Religions, p. 152.
THE WORLD BREATH
initiation was merely an entering on a path that should lead
to ultimate realisation, or a liberation of the mind or spirit
from its physical confinement ; this is what was everywhere
symbolised by the sign of the Cross, and Christians regard it in
the same light to this day. But for us the veil of mystery
which enwrapped all these subjects has been lifted. The neo-
Platonists. give us many indications as to what was meant by
this sign, and fu..ey were not only the direct heirs of the Egyptian
priests; but were probably equally well versed in the various
mystery religions that were current round the Mediterranean
basin in their day. There are also many references to the Cross
throughout the Gnostic texts, which are extremely enlightening,
but, in order to understand their meaning, it is necessary to
translate the thought that lay behind the letter. In so doing
many obscure passages immediately become clear, and at the
point we have now reached in studying the Law of Periodicity,
I do not think these texts will present any difficulties to my
reader.
In one of the oldest of Gnostic texts, dating probably from
the third quarter of the second century A.D., and in which is
preserved one of the most remarkable traditions of the mystical
life of Jesus, we find among many interesting and beautiful
things the following words : " And having thus spoken,. he
showed me a Cross of light set up, and about the Cross a great
multitude, and therein one form and one likeness ; and in the
Cross another multitude, not having one form.... Now the
multitude of one aspect that is about the Cross is the lower
nature (the human nature, Au.), and those whom thou seest in
the Cross, if they have not one form, it is because not yet hath
every Limb of Him who came down been gathered together."1
This seems to me a perfect expression of what I am trying to
convey of the true nature of the Cross in the life of mankind.
The " limbs " in all the mysteries, Egyptian Book of the Dead,
Jewish Kabbalah, or Orphic texts, represent the parts of the
Godhead scattered over the earth as mankind, after the " death''
or descent into matter of the manifest aspect of God, which shall
eventually return from whence it came, or be re-collected, as in
the case of Osiris. We must certainly have begun to realise by
ndW that life is re-gathering where entropy has scattered, and
so shall'' every limb of Him be gathered'' some day!
A further light is thrown on this subject by a very early
document, the Untitled Apocalypse, .which deals almost ex-
clusively with the Gnostic mysteries connected with the Cross.
1 Acts of John, Apocryphal.New Tes:tament, vv. g8_ a_nd 1oo.
AT THE CROSS-ROADS
To take one of the most significant passages: 11
The second
space is that which is called Creator, Father, Word, Source,
Mind, Man, ... Pillar, etc.... The outspreading of his hands is
the manifestation of the Cross. The Source of the Cross is the
Man (Logos) whom no man can comprehend" (p. 23).1 If we
connect these lines with all that has been said regarding cosmic
evolution, it is clear that when we reach mankind we arrive at
the" second space" orstage-in thegreaterlaw of God's breath,
and in this sense man becomes all these things: Man, mind,
word, etc., is not his mind even the" creator" of the world he
lives in ? I do not think anyone to-day would be so bold as to
assert that the world, as we know it, is anything but our creation ;
what it is jn itself we shall probably never know in our human
condition. Further throughout the Gnostic texts, man, in his
highest aspect, the 11
Pillar " or the Cross are identical, which
entirely confirms the conclusion we have arrived at quite
independently. Lastly, it seems clear from all this that it is the
spirit of man that is the "source of the Cross,'' since without
this, matter would never have been" double-crossed" on its
way to universal dispersion. But that we do not comprehend
anything of the real nature of this spirit even now will be
admitted if even C. G. Jung, one of the most distinguished of
living psychiatrists, has to admit that: "Despite all the
psychology we think we possess to-day ... the psyche is still a
foreign, almost unexplored country of which we have only
indirect knowledge."2 If ever this psyche, which makes man
different ·to the whole rest of creation, is to be "explored,"
however, the manifestations of genius should be our :first care,
for it is undoubtedly the inner man that is the source of all
inspiration, as will become evident later when we study the
Buddha and Jesus.
·Regarding the " outspreading of hands," there is a further
interesting reference to it in the Odes of Solomon : " I stretched
out my hands and worshipped the Lord, for the extension of my
hands is His sign, and my expansion is the upright Tree (or
Pillar)."3 I believe that in this text, as in the last, the extension
of the hands symbolises the event in cosmic evolution when
Life had arisen out of the ashes of matter, the" pillar" rising
into an a-material realm beyond the mere physical one, the
outstretched arms forming the horizontal" boundary," which is
1 From the Codex Brucianus, trans!., by F. Lamplaugh, under the title
" Gnosis of Light," approx. date A.D. 180.
__a M.M.S., p. 86. · -
a Early Jewish ChriStian text. Cf. Gnosis of Litht, P· 65.
142 THE WORLD BREATH
at the meeting of two worlds, and turns the tide inwards, to
ultimate completion in an expansion which covers all things, in
worship or at-onement with the" Lord." Mr. Lamplaugh gives
us a very illuminating commentary on this subject of the Pillar
and the outstretched hands, which I feel makes all further
explanation unnecessary: "To realise what is meant, we must
remember that 'Charis' (grace) and 'resurrection' were the
names of' Staurus '-the Pillar, that made with' Horus' (the
limit), the great Cross referred to more than once."1 Hence it is
clear that in the mind of the initiate, the·Cross stood for Man-
the Pillar, piercing the boundary (Horus) of the physical nature
and rising, i.e. resurrecting, by "grace" which is represented
as the " bride " of the Logos (mind), into a condition beyond
the Horus.
That we have at last obtained a true explanation of these
obscure texts seems to me unquestionable, especially if, with
the above explanation in mind, we consider the following.
Hyppolitus says of the Cross, considered as the supreme
mystery: "Now it is called the Boundary, because it bounds
off the Deficiency from the Fullness ; it is called the Cross or
Stock because it hath been fixed immovably and unchangeably
so that nothing of the Deficiency should be able to approach the
Eternities within the Fullness."2
This text makes it quite clear that the Cross, or Boundary,
is that which stands midway between the Deficiency (which un-
doubtedly stands for the material universe), and the Fullness, a
new order, perhaps spiritual, containing the essence of all things,
and which divides one from the other, so that nothing deficient
shall enter the Eternities. This seems to me as clear an expres-
sion as is to be found of the idea of the Cross standing between
two worlds, the boundary of both; and if the first germ of an
unmaterial life which must eventually transcend matter be
indeed planted in the conscious mind, does not the container
thereof becomethetrue Crossor boundarybetween" Deficiency''
and "Fullness'.'? He is indeed "partaker" in the material
world in so far as his material body is concerned, and yet
entering the Fullness, in so far as in him is spirit, which, as we
shall see later, knows no limits, and may eventually be recog-
nised as pervading all things, being also "full" of all things.
Considered thus, it is clear that when once man has become
conscious of this his true nature, his role must be that of
1 Gnosis of Light, p. 75·
2 Philosophumena, or Refutation of all Heresies, Chap. VI, 3; approx. date
A.D. 222.
AT THE CROSS-ROADS I43
freeing the portion of the Fullness he possesses from the last
traces of the " Deficiency."
The idea of the Cross as " boundary," limit or " palisade " is
older than the Gnostics, or Christianity even, for in Plato's
Timreus there is a description which can only mean the sam~ as
the 11
outstretched " arms, or the boundary, the " Cross of
Light" mentioned in the first quotation: u They saw the
extremities of the Heavens extended in the midst of the Light,
for this Light was the final boundary of Heaven, somewhat
like the undergirdings of ships, and thus confined its whole
revolution.''1 If we place these lines next to the following from
the Apocryphal Acts of John, I do not think there can be any
doubt left in our minds as to the universality of the significance
attached to the idea of the Cross. 11
This then is the Cross which
by the Word (Logos-Mind. Au.)hath been the means of " cross-
beaming " all things (is not the above 11
undergirding of ships "
a 11
cross-beaming " ?), at the same time separating off the
things that proceed from genesis below ... and also compacting
them into one" ;1-in other words, 11
confining their revolu-
tion.'' Surely this means that the Cross or Light stands between
the things below, namely, inorganic. life, which is scattered
throughout the universe in many forms, and those which pro-
ceed from 11
genesis," and make all further" revolution" to be
a progressive concentration into a oneness, which will in all
probability be of mind-power alone. There are many thoughts,
but One Mind.
No one realises better than I do, how extremely obscure are
all these texts, but when I arrived at the conclusion that the
life of humanity is the Cross between the output and intake
of the vast periodic scheme I am endeavouring to investigate,
and realised, as Mr. Lamplaugh says, that 11
the Cross of
Calvary was taken by the Gnostics to be the outward and visible
sign of a concealed or Cosmic Cross,"3 I could not but feel that
here there were people who had understood the place of man
in the universe, in exactly_ the same way as myself. And
further, I fully believe that something of this idea has lain at
the back of the minds of all men who have used or do use
the sign of the Cross as the symbol of their faith, from
time immemorial to the foremost leaders of the Roman Church
to-day. · It undoubtedly stands as the symbol of resurrection
1 Vision of Ef'.
2 Gnostia CYuaiftxion, Vol. II. Eahoes ft'om the Gnosis, Vol. VII, G. R. S.
Mead. .
a Gnosis of Light, p. 45·
THE WORLD BREATH
into a more spiritual life in their eyes, and is this not what
we have been saying, the only difference between us is that
they regard one Man as the Cross; I, all mankind !1
I must confess, for the sake of those who might feel inclined
to find my interpretation of these texts a little far-fetched, that
it has taken me several years to reach the point where I feel
I have really grasped the meaning of the above sayings, and
perhaps it is too much to expect of anyone that they should
immediately see them in the light that I do, but seeing the
close relationship between the symbolism of the mysteries and
the point I have reached in my account of Periodicity, I could
not refrain from alluding to them. Unquestionably the matter
is extremely obscure, however, and I oannot pretend to deal
with it adequa1!elY here, it would require many volumes to
elucidate these texts satisfactorily!
There is one last point which·I must mention before I cease,
because I think it is of interest in this connection. In the Ode
of Solomon, the pillar of the Cross is called the " upright Tree " ;
is it not conceivable that the Tre~ of Life prominent in all
religions, stood for this very Tree or Pillar of the Cross ? The
Tree of the Know~edge of Good and Evil, the Tree in the Garden
of the Hesperides,.the Tree with the Golden Apples of eternal
youth, tended by Freia in the Edda, the sacred oaks of the
Druids, even to the Bo tree under which the Buddha attained
enlightenment, are these not all of them trees of " resurrection "
out of material existence into an "eternity" beyond? Mr.
G. R. S. Mead makes a very interesting comment on the sym-
bolism of the Cross, which I think throws light on this aspect
of the" Tree" as the Cross. He says in reference to the story
of the Crucifixion in the Acts of John :_ " The sentence :
' when He was hung on the Cross ' contains a great puzzle.
The word in the original is batos; this may mean the
' bush 1
or ' tree 1
of the Cross. . . . It is not only the Cross
of dead wood or the dead trunk of a tree lopped ofits branches
-a symbol of Osiris in ~eath ; it is also the Tree of Life. . . .
For the Gnosis, that which at once separated and united
light and darkness was the Cross: . . . Batos does not mean
'bush' really, but medium of transmission."2 As such, is it
not clear that it stands for Man, with his feet in the ground,
and his head rising into the skies, carrying the seed of eternal
life beyond the limits ?3 .
Nowhere have I found a clearer or more beautiful expression
1 See Note I.
3 See Note 2.
1 Echoes from the Gnosis, Vol. VII, p. 23.
AT THE CROSS-ROADS I45
of all these things than in the work of one of the greatest
thinkers of our day, which proves that such ideas are not
relegated to a dead and ignorant past, but are still alive and
potent. Henri Bergson has depicted the position of man in a
way that is in complete harmony with the ideas of him as the
Cross or Batos handed down from the ancient mystics, and I
hope his words may convince my readers that we have not been
dealingmerelywithmythology, but with an idea that holds good
for all time. In a work, which I might be tempted to regard as
one of the scriptures of the modern world, namely, Creative
Evolution, Bergson says: "All our analyses show us in life an
effort to remount the incline that matter descends.... The
life that evolves on the surface of our planet is indeed attached
to matter. If it were pure consciousness a fortiori, if it were
superconsciousness it would be pwe creative activity. In fact
it is riveted to an organism that subjects it to the general laws
of inert matter. But everything happens as if it were doing its
utmost to set itself free from these laws.... In reality life is a
movement, materiality is the inverse movement, and each of
these two movements is simple, the matter which forms the
world being an undivided flux and undivided also the life that
runs through it (the Pillar or Tree).... We catch a glimpse of
a simple process : an action which is making itself across an
action which is unmaking itself, like the fiery path formed by
the last rocket of a fireworks display rises through the black
cinders of the spent rockets that are falling dead."1 This is a
perfectly clear and scientific description of a cross movement
which corroborates the Gnostic texts in eyery respect, and I
need say no more.
But apart ideas, apart all our modem common sense, our
science and all the rest, do we not still worship the Tree, that
Tree which something in us persists in regarding as the symbol
of a greater life? I have not mentioned the Christian idea of the
Cross before, knowing that it would necessarily be in the minds
of all my readers as they followed me through these pages.
For the moment I do not wish to discuss Jesus Christ nor
the Christian religion, as I shall do so fully later on, for it is a
question which I consider vital to the world, and it must there-
fore appear at its proper time. But whoever has followed me
closely thus far may easily realise, without being told, that
should the mind of man ever burst through the physical bound-
aries, and set itself free, man as such would perforce die on the
Cross-Mankind. What follows after must perforce have no
1 pp. 259. 263-4·
THE WORLD BREATH
further relation to materiality-the body remains nailed to the
Cross and cries: "Lama, Lama, Sabachthani," but the spirit
must go on, for Truth must set it free.
Mankind is still very far from that point, however, there is
a long way to travel before we realise such a condition as that;
suffice it for the present that we recognise man for what he
really is: the great finger-post at the cross-roads of the universe.
Let us proceed to decipher the indications on that finger-post,
they may show us the Way.
" Homage to the King of Kings, and Lord of Lords, and
Prince of Princes. Thou hast ruled the two Lands . . .
grant thou to me . . . the power to sail down the river to
Tettu in the form of the living Ba-soul, and the power to sail
up the river to Abidoe in the form of a Benu Bird, and the
power to pass in through, and to pass out from, without
obstruction."1
Note No. I. Anyone interested in pursuing these ideas in
relation to the Cross more exhaustively, will find many things of
interest in C. Schmidt's Gnostische Schriften aus dem Codex
Brucianus, Vol. VIII, pts. I and 2, in the Apocryphal Gospels,
in the works of the early Church Fathers, and in all the works
of G. R. S. Mead. There are also many highly interesting anal-
ogies to Gnostic ideas in the Egyptian Book of the Dead
which have not yet been investigated.
Note No. 2. From the point of view I have been advocating
it is interesting to study the symbolism of the Tet in the
Egyptian Book of the Dead. I would more especially refer my
readers to Chapter XV of the Theban Recension, where I
find a truly ren1arkable example of these ideas. Here we
find the following scene : At the top of the picture the disc
of the sun is resting on the loop of the symbol of life, the ankh
cross, and is supported by two human hands and arms. The
ankh, in turn, rests on top of the Tet. This Tet represents the
spinal column of Osiris, the God of the Underworld, the " dead
sun of yesterday," and it is probable that in very early times
he was represented by this symbol alone. On the left of the
Tet is the Goddess Isis, and on the right the Goddess Nephtys.
Isis is the Goddess of the Dawn, the Sophia or wisdom;
Nephtys is the "Lady of the House," the earth Goddess.
In this connection, I think it is obvious that they are symbolic
of the awakening spirit, and the house which lodges it; and
1 Hymn to Osiris On-nefer, Book of the Dead.
AT THE CROSS-ROADS 147
together they raise the pillar of the dead sun of yesterday into
the eternal life of to-morrow. In the picture the loop of the
ankh is yellow, clearly expressing radiance, whereas the arms
that grow out of it as well as the sun above, are dark, and
convey a sense of immateriality, or the opposite of visible forms
as we know them, which is totally different to the rest of the
picture. '' I come forth and I shine ; I enter in and I come to
life."1
On the famous " Ludovisi Throne " in Rome, we find the
rising Soul upheld by two Goddesses, probably the same
symbolism. It is also interesting to note in this connection
that the symbol of the Tet originated in the temple city of
Per-Asar-neb-Tetu, where grew the sacred a-cacia or sycamore
trees, and in all probability these were regarded as images of
the sacred'' Spinal Pillar'' of Osiris, and if this be so, the tree
is once again the symbol of man rising to immortality.
1 Ibid., Chap. XLII, 14. E. A. Wallis Budge.
CHAPTER IV
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS J
I
T HE story of material evolution ended with the first
stir of mind activity in the brain pan of the last and
smallest of material constructions in the great building
of the universe, but that stirring of mind gives a new significance
to the whole edifice. At the final ebb of cosmic matter, if
Periodicity still holds good, we should be able to discover the
first faint trace of a new flow-a-new beginning. And if such a
beginning there be, then undoubtedly only in Man's mind is it
to be found, for with this there appears something entirely
unforeseen in the construction of the universe. It is an amazing
fact, if one comes to think of it, that the bodies in the heavens
should have evolved, automatically as it seems, through untold
millions of years, ~nd then at the end should have produced a
minute being, containing some form of energy so powerful that
it is capable of dominating the whole inorganic world, and
holding the whole living one under its sway! From nebulre of
inconceivable dimensions, from animals of gigantic size and
strength, from trees so tall their heads almost reach the clouds,
matter has sunk down to little man, weak and defenceless in
body, but with a power embedded in his brain which has raised
him to lordship over all he surveys. Man, protected by nothing
but his insubstantial mind, has battled his -way against all
enemies into a position of power that is unequalled in the whole
history of evolution, as far as we know it.
The only way in which we can explain this extraordinary
phenomenon is to imagine that as this planet cooled and shrank
and sank, at its final ebb it gathered strength and rose in one
last wave, small as is the last ripple of a summer sea breaking
on the most distant beach, in comparison to those thrown up
against the cliffs in the winter's gale. But in truth, as this last
ripple in the ocean of matter spends itself, it turns and faces
a new realm, the realm of mind. As coal bums itself away, and
its energies go out in heat, as the bursting balloon lets out its
148
FROM ':VORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS 149
gas, as the body heaves one last sigh as it gives up the ghost, so
does the last pulsation of matter release something that is not
material any more. Life inhaled force and built itself up and
decreased, and gave birth to a new power in the universe:
self-conscious mind.
What is this thing that is apparently the privilege of man
alone on all the earth and on Ioo,ooo,oooth of stars? A study
of biology would lead us to believe that there are signs of its
coming in all living organisms, let us say: preparatory con-
ditions, and these culminate in the human body, which seems
organised for the sole purpose of producing the brain and
endowing it with the necessary forces for its maintenance. In
order that we may understand the full significance of this brain
of ours, we must therefore first of all comprehend its relation-
ship to the body, andwhat are its characteristics; havinggrasped
its link with the material world on the one hand, we shalJ;
afterwards endeavour to trace the nature of that which emerges-
from it and projects itself out into an a-material world.
As we know, man lives and grows by the food he eats and by
the air he breathes ; the first falls into two categories : the
quartenary or albuminoid, and the tertiary including carbo:-
hydrates and fats. The former are destined to feed the tissues,
the latter supply power or energy to the central nervous system,
which system unites the body's sensations to its activities. Now
the main source of the tertiary foodstuffs lies in the chloro-
phyllian function of plants, and as the development of the
nervous system in all living creatures seems to be the keynote
to the whole upward march of organic evolution, we see Life
growing like an immense tree with its roots in the vegetable
kingdom and its head in the insubstantial mind clouds. The
reason why plant life is the foundation of practically all living
creatures (the only exception being possibly certain bacteria)
is that all such are dependent for life on the substance of other
once living things.(Whereas the plant alone, by its chlorophyll,
draws its energy direct from the sun.)" If animals and fungi
are food-parasites upon green plants, green plants are energy-
parasites upon the sun. The whole of life upon earth depends
upon solar energy,"1 and although we absorb a great deal from
the air around us, without the plant's unique capacity for
absorbing and making use of radiant energy contained in light
itself, the animal world could never have existed in its present
form. As it is, plants draw energy from solar radiation by separ-
ating the :ar~_<?_!l from the G.~~p_onic a_~jg_, and transmuting it
1 Sc. of L., p. 578.
ISO THE WORLD BREATH
into starch, which they store up as in reservoirs. This carbo-
hydrate, or starch, when it becomes animal's food, is carried
as glucose by the arterial blood into the tissues, where it is
deposited in the form of glycogene. Glycogene is potential
energy, and is apparently stored in the body for the purpose
of supplying power to the nervous system, and any animal
in activity draws on this supply of energy, and the body has
to arrange itself so as to provide the amount needed.
This nervous system seems to be the characteristic that dis-
tinguishes animals from all other organisms in creation, it is
non-existent in the vegetable world, yet at the very outset
of animal life we find traces of it. Even the very early polyp
Obelia, for instance, has a network of nerve fibres, and it is
said of the microscopic Amreba that any part of its body
may be "now a sense-organ, now a nerve, now a muscle!"
In the course of ages, the nervous system has grown and
developed until it has become not only one of the attributes
of the animal organism, but, under the control of the human
brain, it is now the most important factor in the body, and here
lies the crucial point. For whether we regard the brain .as
actually the mind or merely its instrument, there is no doubt
that " the hundreds of muscles that move the human machine
about are controlled by the nerves, for each muscle must have
its own nerve supply, and the nerves radiate out from the
brain and its continuation the spinal chord. Brain and spinal
chord constitute a government, so to speak, which rules the
muscles ; it is constantly flashing instructions along the nerves
and commanding a movement here and a relaxation there."
Not only that, but it also" receives a copious stream of informa-
tion from all parts of the body and laboriously responds to that
stream and moves the mechanism in appropriate ways."1
Clearly, therefore, the brain is the most vital factor in the
living body, and the most remarkable proof of this lies in the
fact that in men or animals that have died of hunger, the brain
is found to be almost unimpaired, while the cells of all the
other organs have undergone profound changes ; it seems as
if at all costs the organism fed this centre to the last.
These are physiological facts that have the most profound
bearing on our subject, for they lead us to the conclusion that
what we obtain from plants and plant-eating animals, is not
the energy that feeds the physical mass we call body-(the
albuminoids see to that)-but energy that gives rise to and
feeds a new variety of power altogether, namely, brain energy.
1 So. of L., p. 26.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS I5I
That is the important point for us at present, what makes the
body is inessential, for it is in the energy of the cerebro-
spinal nervous system that we must seek the first traces of the
new wave that is to bring us one step nearer the beach where
the tide shall ultimately break. But that day is yet far distant,
.at present we are only at the beginning, our tide- has only just
turned, for in considering the nervous system or the brain,
we have not yet 'gone beyond the material aspect of life.
Apparently, but if we look a little closer, we find that in saying:
brain, we have said something more than we were quite con-
scious of. Eddington says: "The physiologist can trace the
nerve mechanism up to the brain ; , but ultimately there is a
hiatus which no one professes to fill up. Symbolically we
majt"follow the influences of the physical world up to the
door of the mind; they ring the door-bell and depart 1
' ;
1
and here begins the great mystery which confronts man
to-day. ·
Everyone knows now that the world we live in, as our senses
apprehend it, is one thing, and the world as seen through the
glasses of the scientist is another-which of the two is the world
as it really is, no man can tell as yet ; probably neither. But
however that may be, there is one thing that is undeniable,
which is that : at the very outset of consciousness the mind
accomplishes some strange act of transformation of the world
around it, and with the aid of the cerebro-spinal-nervous
system acts in a manner never known in the world before,
namely, creates the image of its surroundings.
Much has been written and taught about the illusory nature
of the world we live in-religions have been built up on this
foundation, but in admitting that what our senses convey to
the brain is a picture that does not conform to Reality, we
must further ask ourselves, whether the mental conception
that supercedes it in the minds of scientists may not equally
be an illusion? The whole world of atoms may be a mental
projection just as the physical world was a sensory hallucina~
tion! But in any case, there is one thing which no one will
deny, I feel sure, and that is : cogito ergo sum. Further, as it
is unlikely that we shall ever possess any other measure of
reality than this thinking self-anyhow in this human
wave-we must attempt some kind of a synthesis of these
two versions of world reality, by understanding the nature
of their creator, the mind. Here is evidently the source of
present and future creative evolution, and the more stress
t N.P.W., p. 8g.
THE WORLD BREATH
laid on the illusory nature of the world, the more persistently
does the reality of the mind emerge.
I am in honour bound to state, at the very outset of this
study, however, that the seat of the mind is so far undis-
coverable; even if we say that it lies in the brain, this does
not describe what works the thinking process, nor its nature.
But even though every part of us be denied the honour of
being The Mind, u neither the shaft, nor the wheels, nor the
body, nor the yoke, being the chariot,"1 as the Monk Nagasena
proved to King Milinda, yet all the same there is something
which is the chariot ; this cannot be denied.
In default of being able to discover the mechanism of the
mind, the study of it was left severely alone hitherto ; philo-
sophy contented itself with studying different modes of
thought, or cognition, religion spoke of the soul, Yoga used
thought to train men to a capacity for wider vision, but a study
of how thought arose, the actual science of the mind itself,
was never attempted till about a hundred and fifty years ago.
Since then everything has altered, not only psychology- but
biology, physiology, zoology, have all contributed their share
to a completely altered conception of man and his powers.
Having been satisfied, since the dawn of intelligence, with
regarding the world as composed of four elements, which
together formed either a good or a bad design on the canvas
of our minds, and which, according to whether we were holy
or worldly, we regarded as real or unreal, suddenly, in the last
hundred years, we have discovered an entirely new world
composed of ninety-two elements-or if you prefer, merely
two : the electron and the proton-and what is more extra-
ordinary still : wave mechanics, quanta, relativity, and such-
like curious and incredible things. Are these also a reflection
of our inner self, or does this mean that man has rnade a new
step on the road of his cosmic evolution-that his mind has
tom down one of the veils of matter in which it was enveloped ?
I believe this to be a fact, and that this new knowledge is the
outer sign of a new development in the order of mankind,
the first ripple that presages the rise of a new world.
For thousands of years we contented ourselves with regarding
the earth as the mere food producer-then perhaps it struck
some more awakened spirit that the differences in shape and
form meant something more than food; differences in size,
in texture, in temperature, were noted and stored in the
memory for future use, and then some vague ideas of differ-
1 Milinda Panha : Sacrea Boohs ofthe East, vol. xxxv.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS 153
ences in colour, finally made up an aggregate of experiences,
healthy or unhealthy, objects useful or baneful to man, out
of which was woven the first mental conception of the three-
dimensional world around us. After this we were satisfied
for many centuries with regarding our world as the flat centre
of the universe, over which constellations hung like lanterns,
until at last some few wise men ventured to suggest that it
might be round and only one amongst many similar worlds.
Ultimately all men realised the truth of this idea ; this again
was progress. Another of our age-old illusions is the idea of
a universe composed only of mass, liquid, fire and air. Some few
in ancient times added the ether, but electricity or gas were
undreamt of. Men never even troubled themselves to enquire
into the real nature of the four elements they knew, nothing
was known either of their origin or constituents until a short
while ago ; they were all in the condition of a boy I know
who, when asked why the sky is blue, replied: "God made it
so, of course ! " But how could we ever hope to know anything
about the God we thus accepted without question if we never
even paused to consider His handiwork, nor troubled to learn
anything about the laws that governed it, which, if He exists,
must be His methods after all ! The fact that some few saints
11
walked with God," and seemed to know something which
others did not know, excited no special comment, and certainly
did not seem to call for any special investigation. As in the
case of all other natural phenomena, men were content to
accept this fact without question !
Each of these steps in knowledge was a stage in t4e process
of mind development, and I believe that, in the new phase upon
which we are now entering, man will no more be content to
accept anything without question, or to admit that the vast
vistas which seem open to a few should be closed to the rest
for ever. I think the circle of those who seek for true under-
standing is widening every year. One may observe small but
not insignificant signs of this movement all around one if one
cares to look ; for instance, a very interesting sign of the times
is the tremendous call for books like Sir Arthur Eddington's
Nature of the Physical World, and Sir James Jeans' books on
Astronomy. These are certainly works that would only have
found their way into the hands of scholars some fifty years
ago. There is an awakening taking place in man's conscious-
ness, an awareness of the existence of something more than
that which meets the eye-it might almost be regarded as
the rise of a more widespread spiritual consciousness, for it
I 54 THE WORLD BREATH
demands knowledge of the invisible world underlying the
visible.
It has long been my opinion that mankind has reached a
phase of development wherein knowledge, although still far
from the level of the highest, has got to become more Wide-
spread; man can no more merely develop individually, he
must carry his fellow-men along with him. For this develop-
ment I believe two men are pre-eminently responsible, namely,
the Buddha and Jesus Christ. They took knowledge from out
of temple enclosures, and bore it into the light of day;
they desired to help all men to obtain the enlightenment which
they enjoyed; to open men's minds to wider knowledge; to
make men realise the Way by their own efforts and experi-
ence, instead of accepting everything at second hand from the
priests. " Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened
unto you." That was spoken not to the wise but to the foolish,
and since that day all men have felt they had a right to seek.
·And so seeking, they have suddenly discovered that what they
had hitherto regarded as reality, was merely a blind, con-
cealing something of a different nature altogether. Which is
most real, we ask ourselves, the old reality or the new? In
all probability both: one belongs to the dawning world of
the mind, apparently unconditioned by sense activity ; the
other was a picture made by some other kind of faculty, out
of the material contributed by the senses.
Counting this new condition of mind work, man now possesses
four stages of approach to the world around him. There was
firstly that simple rE;cognition of differences in conditions, in
food values, in the respective utility of various things sur-
rounding him, which was the most primitive form of mental
activity, relating only to the immediate necessity of self-
preservation. Secondly, there arose the condition that is
apperceptive and creative at the same time, wherein is dis-
played a certain activity from inside outwards. In this condi-
tion man attributes values to things according to some inner
measure, which values appear to be purely arbitrary, since
in nature as such it would be difficult to discover the existence
of the seat of beauty, truth, goodness and the idea of God i
"The mind has by its selective power fitted the processes
of Nature into a frame of law, of a pattern largely of its own
choosing; and in the discovery of this system of law, the
mind may be regarded as regaining from Nature that which
the mind has put into Nature."1 We cannot treat this "law"
•
1 N.P.W., p. 244.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS 155
as a mere reaction to sense impressions, for there is a hiatus
between one occurrence and the other, that is so far unbridged:
at one end of the scale there are millions of vibrations a second,
that are emitted in various doses by the green trees, the blue
sky, or those red roses on my table, the waves of which, on
meeting my eyes, travel along the various nerves to the brain
centres, there to be transformed into the conceptions we
know under those names. But at the same time, there is also
formed a sense of awe, attraction or pleasure as the case may
be. What is the connection, or what induces these latter
reactions is as inexplicable to-day as it ever was. Only one
thing is evident : the composition of tree-green-beauty into a
single conception is the work of some inner activity, in the
service of which the senses merely act as receivers.
But that our standard of values arises from entirely different
sources to those that produce the conceptions of colour or
form, no one can doubt, they developed with the rise of self-
conscious man, and although it is undeniable that some
animals distinguish right from wrong (anyone dealing with
dogs or elephants, for instance, can bear witness to this fact),
yet I think there is no doubt that these distinctions have
only been inculcated in them by man ; left to themselves,
they are probably entirely unconscious of any values at
all.
This standard of values is the most mysterious of all man's
many qualities. Why an agglomeration of atoms called moun-
tains, bathing their feet in a compound of mineral salts and
water we call sea, on to which is thrown the reflection of a
dead world we call moon, should arouse in some of us a
sense of awe and ecstasy, is a riddle which no man can solve.
This is something which neither biologist nor physiologist,
neither physicist, chemist nor even philosopher can ever ex-
plain-it is something which belongs to a system of which we
as yet know nothing. Has it perhaps some relation to a
consciousness of a further state ingrained in the very com-
position of our cells, our glands, our genes, of which we are
aware as of the distant peak towards which we are ascending,
even though we do not see it as we climb the mountain sides ?
Does not the fact that the highest civilisations always produce
the highest forms of art or wisdom give us cause to believe
that, with the higher development of mankind, there come
heightened faculties ? And this holds out the promise that
if we, as all mankind, achieved a higher standard of perfection
than any we have known so far, powers, hitherto the
THE WORLD BREATH
prerogatives of genius, would be the property of all men.
There is undoubtedly some hidden motive in our perception of
beauty, be it in art or thought, which has nothing to do with
will, nor intellect nor yet necessity ; it seems to be the urge
driving us towards a more advanced condition, the promise
of things to come. Jeans says of man that he is still a new-
born babe with all the unexplored potentialities of babyhood ;
and until lately was merely concerned with his cradle and
feeding bottle. But if his infancy has lasted 300,000 years,
and has developed him from an animal condition to a creature
possessing powers far more subtle than anything we have been
able to discover in the whole universe before, we can imagine
something of what might lie before him when he u grows up ! ,
Seeing that every progress thus far has been from a more
material condition into a lesser, out of which something of a
completely immaterial nature is emerging, evidently this is
the trend of human development, perhaps to end in complete
freedom from matter altogether. But as even man's highest
powers, those which cannot be classified with other material
phenomena, are still born out of matter, and are inextricably
bound to matter for their manifestations, it yet remains to be
seen whether this partnership can ever be dissolved.
The scientific era, which is the third stage of man's develop-
ment, and upon which he has just entered, is something entirely
different from anything that has gone before ; here man
definitely fre~s his_~i!!g_ from all s~nse per_ceptions, and accom-
plishes a purely mental act of building up afantastic world of
intensely significant phenomena, which no eye can behold.
We know, for instance, that there is above our heads something
that is neither blue nor beautiful, which our minds perceive to
be a vast inter-activity of light-waves, quanta and mole-
cules. We have in this new aspect of things advanced a few
steps forward on the path that must eventually lead us to
complete freedom from the material universe, for we are
beginning to realise a world to which neither sight, hearing
; nor touch have given us any clue, which is in fact usually the
·exact reverse of what our senses would have led us to believe,
a world that is purely the offspring of our mental activity, I
might almost say an imaginative world! For, indeed, without
the imagination to start us on our search, it would never have
been discovered. An inner urge drove some among men to
question the evidence of their senses as to the nature of the
material world, and the first perception obtained of an under-
lying elemental world was purely due to the mathematical
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS I57
mind which constructs its buildings out into space, without
any scaffolding of matter whatsoever. Afterwards experience
is called in to bring these mental conclusions into some rela-
tionship to the life we know, whereas in the earlier phase, it
was the ·mind that was called in last of all, to put its stamp
on the facts of experience ! I think if we analyse it that we
must recognise that this third stage is a first step towards a
more spiritual conception of existence. The mind is now
throwing a much more definite image of itself upon the material
screen. Before this, it seemed unable to do anything more
than classify the conditions reflected upon it by the senses, and
co-ordinate its activities accordingly-as the painter draws
what he sees on the canvas.
If we consider the mental activities of mankind since the
earliest times a little more closely, however, I think we may
discover that in every generation there have existed some
few men that were unwilling to accept the evidence of the
senses as the final verdict. Until a few years ago, those who
protested claimed from religion the revelation of a world
more perfect than was afforded by ordinary life on earth,
to-day it is to science that men turn for a solution of the riddle.
And apparently they are justified in so doing, for, although
religion has always maintained that there exists within man
a non-bodily element, the soul, out of which such a new world
might grow, yet there have always been many who doubted
the existence of this somewhat nebulous entity. But I believe
that now for the first time in European -history there have
arisen men who can tell us something definite about the sub-
soil of the mind, namely, the leaders of the new psycho-
analytical science. We call this science new, but I am here
bound to admit that the Hindu science of Yoga has forestalled
us by some I400 years in an attempt to reach what we now call
the subconscious mind-what they call Buddhi-but very
few, even among Indians, have ever succeeded in mastering
that system, and certainly no European that I have ever
heard of, although many have attempted it! We obviously
need to be taught about the unconscious by other means, and
I think that our new psychologists may truly claim to be
opening the way at last, to a mind realm deeper than anything
we have sounded in the human system hitherto, and which,
though manifesting by means of the conscious mind, had so
far escaped all definition. But this should not be mistaken
to mean a resurgence of dualism, for it is rather a re-integra-
tion : " the pure intellect (Buddhi) transposes into the Universal
THE WORLD BREATH
the data of the preceding faculties,"1 at the same time as it
floods and pervades all physical phenomena, and makes them
One. It may in the end give substance to the age-old story
of the soul!
II
We have now reached a point in the story of man's evolution
which I regard as the entry upon the stage of a fourth con-
dition, for in connection with the new conception of an uncon-
scious or subconscious mind, we seem to escape for the first
time from the limitations of bodily manifestations, and attain
something which does not seem to be dominated either by our
wishes nor by the conditions ordinarily regulating the circum-
stances of life. Here we seem to be making the first step into
something outside of human conditions, but we are as yet a
long way from being able to understand the new phenomena
that have suddenly made their appearance, still less explain
then1! _
That we are now at last learning son1ething definite about the
nature of the human psyche is prin1arily due to the genius of
Sign1und Freud. He was the first man to investigate the age-
old manifestations of the " soul " with the methods of modem
science; but, although men's ideas on this subject have hitherto
been of a nebulous and sentimental nature, this does not mean
that the symptoms we now observe were not always there for
anyone to see. The Roman Catholic Church has, since the begin-
ning, been aware of the necessity of confession, which acts as a
mental purification, an inner liberation, and in modem ter-
minology sets the mind free of its repressions (depression
they may call it), but they never knew the causes of this, nor
attempted to give reasons for their rules in that matter. Un-
doubtedly, too, they made unconscious use of what is now
recognised as the "parental complex," to obtain and use
influence over their penitents, although they would certainly
never admit it and may never have investigated the sources
of the power of the confessional ! The Hindu Yoga system
also builds on a process of transforn1ation in that same uncon-
scious, whilst in the Greek initiation rites," catharsis" was the
term for a superconscious state to be achieved by the hiero-
phant; modem psycho-analysts have borrowed the word and
modernised the idea, but fundamentally both mean the same.
But although the foundations of psycho-analysis may have
been laid long ago in the methods employed by all religions,
1 Rene Guenon: Man and his Becoming, p. 88.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS I59
and it is undoubtedly a scientific rediscovery of an ancient
troth,. still it cannot be denied that "by Freud's splendid
achievement, many of whose implications have stillto be worked
out, scientific psychology has at length been enabled to escape
from theory into practice, from the close atmosphere of the
study, the laboratory and the lecture theatre into the vivify-
ing breath of everyday life. It has for the first time been made
applicable to all the manifestations of the•creative spirit."1
The handling of spiritual powers which had until lately been
relegated entirely to religious adepts ''has been given to the
enlightened layman to be used for the benefit of all mankind.
. . . Psychology, which had become a purely abstract science,
has been brought back by Freud to its proper field, research
into· the kernel of the inner life. He has disclosed the drama of
the upbuilding of individuality, has made visible the medley
of conflicting forces at work in the No-Man's-Land that lies
between the conscious and the unconscious, in that twilight
region where a trifling impetus may have far-reaching effects,
and where past and present are intermingled in the most
amazing complications. He has discovered and explored a
world of vast extent, a cosmos pent within the microcosm of
the body-mind, and yet for all its infinity of range so fascinating
to contemplate in the logic of its invariable successions." 2
It is only fair to say, however, that it was Count Mesmer, in
the eighteenth century, who actually opened up the problem
of the unconscious, but as he never succeeded in explaining
even to himself the secret of the powers he possessed, his
methods of mental treatment did not carry us any fl:rrther,
until Freud in I8go made his sensational discovery of the
manifestations of the unconscious, the so-called libido, and the
means of diagnosing its contents and bringing influence to
bear upon it. Once Freud had opened the way, his method
not only transformed the general outlook of the European
world, but it has also '' given a new trend to all the basic
problems of our civilisation and their genealogy.... Whether
the libido is or is not sexually charged; whether the castration
complex and the narcissistic attitude, and this or that article
of the Freudian faith should be regarded as firmly established
for all time-such matters ... are of infinitesimal moment
when compared with the outstanding change wrought in our
world by Freud's discovery of the dynamics of the mind, and by
his investigatory technique. Here we have a man whose creatiye
1 Mental Healers, by Stefan Zweig, p. 359.
2 Ibid., p. 361 :ff. .
r6o THE WORLD BREATH
insight has completely transformed the picture we form of our
inner life.''1
Since Freud's discovery of the actual existence of the
''libido ''-which is perhaps now more comprehensively
termed '' psyche ''-and of the modern psycho-analytical
method of approach to it, much has been done, and others
are carrying on the investigations into all the fields of the mind,
but there is no doubt that we owe it to Freud's genius if, after
all the centuries of complete ignorance of what lies in the store-
house of the mind, we have suddenly discovered a new world
altogether. But to say "discovered, does not mean that we
understand it, as yet we are very far indeed from that; this
new science of psychology has hardly been born, and when
we think of the many centuries it has taken mankind to make
any real progress in the study of astronomy or physics, we can
imagine something of the depths of our ignorance on a subject
that has only come to light in the last half-century! "Being
still in its initial stages as a science, we lack the concepts and
definitions with which to grasp the facts," 2 which have always
been so close around us that we have not been capable of seeing
the forest for the trees. "Because we ourselves are psyches, it
is almost impossible for us to give free rein to psychic hap:een-
ings without being practically dissolved in them, and thus being
robbed of our ability to recognise distinctions and to make
comparisons. This is one difficulty. The other lies in the cir-
cumstance that the more we turn from special phenomena and
come to deal with the spaceless psyche, the more impossible it
becomes to determine anything by exact measurement."3
These words reveal something of the difficulties of the
problem that confronts us. What is this "spaceless psyche,"
this " hinterland , of the mind, which seems to be a new world
altogether, behind, beyond a11;d inherent in the very foundations
of all conscious and unconscious activities ? In relation to it
we are obviously" dealing with a region of psychic life outside
consciousness, and our way of observing it is indirect. As yet
we do not know what depths we are trying to plumb.... What
the aim of this process may be remains at first obscure. We
can only remark its important effect upon the conscious
personality.... We might perhaps call this a new illusion, but
what is illusion? ... What we are pleased to call such may be
for the psyche a most important factor of life-something as
indispensable as oxygen for the organism-a psychic actuality
1 Stefan Zweig: Mental Healers, pp. 262-3.
2 M.M.S., p. 88. 3
Ibid., p. 8g.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS r6r
of prime importance."1 Of the nature of such "illusion "
may be my dream of the Great Breath, but illusion or not, it
is certain that the idea must have arisen in a world outside
mental or conscious control.
This personal experience makes me realise that the world
from out of which such thoughts come to the surface must
necessarily be released even from the semi-substantial world of
radiation, space-time, gravitation, etc. ; and if we admit this,
we must realise that we are here on the threshold of a much
wider, more comprehensive form of existence than any hitherto
known. If this psyche be admitted to be " spaceless," then
there is obviously nothing within which it is contained, it must
be free of the physical world ruled by space, continuing to use it
only as the mechanism for its manifestations. We are here
faced with the possibility of an altogether new factor in
cosmic events, not merely the rise of a new wave, like a
nebular wave or a planetary wave, but a new chapter altogether,
something more like a new energy in the universe. Already
in relation to living organisms, we seemed to discover the first
traces of a new step in the course of physical evolution : they ·
gathered to themselves all the materials of the physical world
and, having freed themselves from subjection to the law of
entropy, produced something unknown before, which evolved
in the reverse sense to that pursued by the evolution of the
universe until then. This fact seemed so extraordinary that
only one inference could be drawn from it, namely, that we had
entered upon the flow of the tide, the period of God's inhalation.
But even this, our wave of organic life, was stilla period evolv-
ing within the bounds of the material frame, it still partially
belonged to the old world. What we now perceive is the first
glimmer of a wave more comprehensive than anything that has
preceded it, for it may well be unlimited by any framework.
So far it is still in its infancy, but even so there ar~ little
symptoms of new conditions here and there : certain people,
for instance, are capable of discarding physical frames and of
communicating with one another across any distance in the
realm of the subconscious mind ; others can describe experiences
from afar of which their consciousness knows nothing ; some
read one another's thoughts, etc.2 We may therefore presume
that when this new wave has risen to its full height, it will
discard physical frames altogether. Life arose out of· the
ashes of universes, and although to-day it still has its feet in
· 1 Ibid., Chap. 3, p. 83.
s See Extrasensory-percept-ion, by J. B. Rhine.
L
162 THE WORLD BREATH
those ashes, by the time the universe has sunk to thermo-
dynamical equilibrium, and energy is no more available for
material formations, a new tide will probably be well on its
way to the beach, having long since shaken off all dust and
ashes. It will have gathered to itself all energies, all powers,
all the inheritance of worlds, and be one step nearer the Source
which draws it inwards towards itself.
An explanation of this '' spaceless psyche " is almost impos-
sible as yet. What could be learnt in half a century ? I can
only hope to give my reader an idea of what is known so far,
in order that he may follow my later prognostication of the
final course of the Breath of God. The first step to any attempt
at explanation must be a study of all unconscious acts, words,
dreams, reactions, inspiration, genius: ''He who would fathom
the psyche must not confuse it with consciousness, else he veils
from his own sight the object he wishes to explore."1 Only by
treating these manifestations of the sub-mind as something
entirely apart from conscious acts can we eventually hope
to discover that to which the new psychology is opening the
gates, namely, the world intuited by all the great religious
teachers when they speak of the soul-that which lies behind
the world we know and which comes forcing its way in from
places and conditions which have so far escaped us. From all
descriptions of it, this psyche does, in fact, sound very much like
the age-old idea of the soul, but" soul" has always been a very
comprehensive term, every religion, almost every human
being, if asked to explain it, would give a slightly different in-
terpretation, until in the last century its very existence was
called into question. There are still many people in the world
to-day who refuse to admit that there is anything at all beyond
the conscious mind, although I should say most of us are
sufficiently enlightened to recognise the foolishness of any
absolute denials-the nineteenth century has opened our eyes
to the existence of too many things which our ancestors would
have regarded as sheer madness! "We shall do well to admit
that there is justification for the old view of the soul as an
objective reality-as something independent and therefore
capricious and dangerous. The further assumption that this
being, so mysterious and terrifying, is at the same time the
source of life, is also understandable in the light of psychology,"2
for even the "I" itself, the "ego-consciousness" has been
. shown to be an outgrowth of the unconscious, since unconscious
· life exists before any trace of the ego-consciousness is present.
1 M.M.S.• p. 84. 2 Ibid., p. 2II.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS I63
I must here mention another fact in relation to this uncon-
scious, which has unfortunately come to be regarded as its most
noticeable characteristic, namely, its connection with repres- .
sions and inhibitions. There is no doubt that most people
only know and admit its possible existence in this relation-
ship. Now although the conscious mind does undoubtedly
repress and inhibit emotions which then drop down into
the unconscious, and there sometimes carry on a nefarious
activity, it must not be supposed for this reason that the
unconscious is only a faint reflection of its more famous
brother, for this is certainly not the case. The unconscious
works entirely independently of our conscious activities,
and even possesses modes of expression entirely its own, as seen
by its use of symbols in dreams ; it has '' contents peculiar to
itself which, slowly growing upwards from the depths, at last
come into consciousness." Therefore also in relation to the
things thrown down into it by the mind, it acts in uncontrol-
lable ways. For instance, in the now famous cases of shell-
shock : when the mind suppressed unpleasant memories, these
descended into the unconscious, which then proceeded to deal
with them by methods all its own, turning them into a paralysed
arm, temporary blindness, and other infirmities, all of which
were curable by forcing the conscious mind to take back into
itself and digest the experiences it had attempted to suppress.
Those were, of course, exceptional cases, but they enabled the
new school of psychology to learn more about the subconscious
in four years than could have been learnt under normal circum-
stances in a century. For the unconscious is always acting but
it is rare, except in special circumstances, that we are given
opportunities of observing it. "All psychic contents which
either approach the threshold of consciousness from below,
or have sunk only slightly beneath it, have an effect upon our
conscious activities,"1 but the consciousness below, on the
other hand, seems to wish to choose what it takes to itself from
above-if things are thrust into it, it rebels !
Within that dark space below the mind, where indefinable
activities take place, and about which it seems so difficult to
make any positive statement at present, there seems to be one
point which, although differently explained by various schools,
yet seems to be an unquestionable fact, and that is the" com-
plex." " Whatever else may be taking place within the obscure
recesses of the psyche ... one thing is certain: it is first and
foremost the so-cilled complexes (emotionally-toned contents
1 Ibid., p. 37~
THE WORLD BREATH
having a certain amount of autonomy) which play an important
part there. . .. According to our best knowledge about them,
complexes are psychic contents which are outside the control of
the conscious mind.) Theyhave been split off from consciousness
and lead a separate existence in the unconscious, being at all
times ready to reinforce or hinder the conscious intentions."1
They can make or mar our lives, make us sane or otherwise, they
enter into everything we do or think, and yet are themselves de-
pendent on something that is completely free from our control.
In fact, it might be said that we do not live our lives but that
we are lived by our complexes. But where they lie and what
produces them is at present a complete mystery. Various
schools have at various times placed their seat in the brain, in
the heart, at the pit of the stomach, or the basis of the spine.
This is, however, immaterial, what appears evident is that the
complexes are a kind of knot, or perhaps a volcano of intensified
energy within the unconscious. The furious energy at those
points bubbles up above the surface mind, and thereby enables
us to obtain some insight into the activities of what lies down
below. As a result of what little understanding we have gleaned
in about fifty years of observation of these upheavals, it is now
considered probable that we have another nature within
ourselves that draws upon our conscious activities, uses our
conscious mind, but is itself uncontrolled by it ; it seems to be
a kind of ultra-physical condition manifesting through the
human frame, perhaps another dimension of world phenomena,
with which our fourth condition is the link ?
We must not imagine, however, that we can in any way
apply to that dimension the criteria we employ in relation
to the other four conditions, this has nothing to do with
our ordinary experience of life; it may draw upon it or,
as we saw, have things inhibited into it by the conscious
mind, but it uses all as it deems fit. It does, however, give us
of its wisdom, " here and there it does rise to the level of
consciousness and from such islands proceeds all knowledge." 2
We shall learn a great deal more about it as a condition when we
come to a study of the lives of those among men who have
possessed the highest knowledge, and I believe that the new
psychology will lead to a complete revision of our conception
of their lives and will bring many things to light which were so
far inexplicable.
It is not to be expected, however, that the prophets of our
new science will not make ·as many mistakes as have all real
1 M.M.S., p. go. a N.P.W., p. 277.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS 165
seekers after truth. Jung, for instance, who has pushed it
furthest up to date, does not at all agree with the Freudian idea
trat the libido is merely the shadow side of human nature,
composed of all the uncivilised passions, which are like chained
wild beasts ready to spring out directlytheyare unleashed-that
it is a kind of primeval slime. We need only think for a moment
of all those who have lived most undoubtedly from the wisdom
discovered "within," to disprove that idea, for what they
found in their inner selves, from which they drew their inspira-
tion, was certainly more like divinity than bestialism ! But
no scientific tenets are final-in the search for Truth it is in-
evitable that mistakes be made ; only scientists, unlike doctors
of the Church, are ready to admit their errors and revise to-day
their opinions of yesterday. It is also necessary that, in relation
to this new psychology, we should learn to free ourselves from
moral judgments ; if the psyche is a universal power, as it seems
to be, there is not more morality or immorality in it than in
the stars on their courses, it contains all things and· all possi-
bilities. The conscious mind is the guardian of gates which
open onto an inexhaustible storehouse ; and even if the col-
lective unconscious within the gates be full of " unnamed things
from the jungle and primeval forest," it is equally the seat of
genius and boundless beauty and perfection. ''Since we have
literally no idea of the way in which what is psychic can arise
from physical elements, and yet cannot deny the reality of
psychic events, we are free to frame our assumptions the other
way for once, and to hold that the psyche arises from a spiritual
principle which is as inaccessible to our understanding as
matter.... To the primitive man the psyche is not, as it is to us,
the epitome of all that is subjective and subject to the will;
on the contrary, it is objective, contained in itself, and living
its own life. This way of looking at the matter is empirically
justified, for not only on the primitive level but with civilised
man as well, psychic happenings are in a large measure with-
drawn from our conscious control ... here we are with our
immediate experiences of something that is-something that
has taken root in the midst of our measurable, ponderable,
three-dimensional reality, that differs baffiingly from this in
every respect and in all its parts, and yet reflects it. The
psyche may be regarded as a mathematical point, and at the
same time as a universe of fixed stars.... If it occupies no space,
it has no body. Bodies die, but can something invisible and
incorporeal disappear? What is more, life and psyche existed
for me before I could say 'I,' and when this 'I, disappears,
166 !HE WORLD BREATH
as in sleep or unconsciousness, life and psyche still go on, as our
observation of other people and dreams informs us.... We are
inclined to assume that, in the last instance, all knowledge
comes from without. Yet to-day we know for certain that the
unconscious contains contents which would mean an im-
measurable increase of knowledge if they could only be made
conscious. The unconscious perceives, has purposes and in-
tuitions, feels and thinks as does the conscious mind. Only
in one respect is there an essential difference between the
conscious and the unconscious functioning of the psyche. While
consciousness is intensive and concentrated, it is transient,
and is directed upon the immediate present and the immediate
field of attention; moreover, it has access only to material that
represents one individual's experience stretching over a few
decades.... But matters stand very differently with the un-
conscious. It is not concentrated and intensive, but shades
off into obscurity ; it is highly extensive and can juxtapose
the most heterogeneous elements in· the most paradoxical way.
More than this it contains, besides an interminable number
of subliminal perceptions, an immense fund of accumulated
inheritance-factors left by one generation of men after another,
whose mere existence marks a step in the differentiation of the
species.... Looked at from without, the psyche appears, to us
to be essentially a reflection of external happenings....
But the truth is that the unconscious is always there beforehand
as a potential system of psychic functioning handed down by
generations of men. The collective unconscious ... seems not
to be a person but something more like an unceasing stream,
or perhaps an ocean of images and figures which drift into
consciousness in our dreams or in abnormal states of mind,"l
one might say that when the will, instrument of consciousness,
looses control, then is the unconscious set free.
I have permitted myself to dwell long on this attempt at a
description of the unconscious, but as the science dealing with
it has so often been misrepresented, and there are only two
or three people in the world who really understand what is at
stake, I felt obliged to go for information to headquarters
instead of trusting to my own lay definitions ! There is one
last point, though, that I should like to stress, for it seems to
me that this throws a new light on this science altogether, and
places it in a perspective different to any other science in the
world.
Psycho-analysis started by being a method of treating the
1 M.M.S., Chap. IX.
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS I67
sick, the mentally abnormal; Freud was himself a certified
doctor, and it was his work, as a doctor, that led him to the far-
reaching discoveries that have placed him in the front rank
of the scientific investigators of our time. Now from this start-
ing-point psycho-analysis has developed through three stages:
Freud's may be considered the stage of investigation and
interpretation, Adler carried this one step further, and became
an educator of men's minds for the new ideas, and Jung is now
at what he himself calls the stage of transformation, although
neither this nor the others are to be regarded as the final stage.
We must never forget that we are still in the first generation
of the protagonists of this new science ! But, though it may have
started as a process for the investigation of mental disease, the
mental attitude of those engaged in the pursuit of this science
has to be totally different from that of other men of science ;
the psycho-analyst by the very nature of his work cannot be
thinking of himself nor be working out a theory for the sake
of the theory, if he does so he defeats his own ends. Only by
putting himself wholly into the mind of another for the per-
fectly disinterested purpose of helping him call: the psycho-
analyst hope to effect a cure. Therefore it is evident that this
science requires a very special training and aptitude on the part
of the analyst, his art has absolutely nothing in common with
other arts or sciences-even the medical one ; an astronomer
need not have been to the stars to be able to describe them, a
physician need not have a disease in order to diagnose it cor-
rectly, but a psycho-analyst is " as much a part of the psychic
process as is the patient, and is equally exposed to transforming
influences. Indeed, if the doctor is more or less inaccessible to
this influence, he is correspondingly robbed of his influence
over the patient."1 He must, therefore, before all else study
the reactions of his own psyche to all the influences that can
be brought to bear upon it, and must be in possession of full
control over his own powers before he can attempt to enter
into the psychological problems of another, without danger of
losing himself. If he is not a stronger and wiser human being,
with a fuller understanding than his patient, it might well
occur that the patient would be the one to decide the final issue !
This fact has led to the rule that before subjecting others to
analyses of their subconscious, the psycho-analyst should
himself be psycho-analysed, and thereby learn something
about the condition of his own soul ; only thus can he
hope to be in a position to advise and help others. He must
1 Ibid., p. sa.
r68 THE WORLD BREATH
in short face the task which he afterwards requires of his
patients.
The unfortunate fact that a good half of so-called psycho-
analysts have omitted to obey these instructions is respon-
sible for much of the harm that is being done by the many
irresponsible people who practise that profession to-day, and
for the consequent unfair contempt which many serious-minded
people levy at the practitioners. There being no regulations to
restrict the practice of psycho-analysis thus far (so long as
the practitioner prescribes no medicines), there are many
"analysts,, who are on the level of quack doctors; but
because one of these last tries to cure a patient suffering from
typhoid fever, by applying a dead, white, female rabbit to his
stomach, this need not induce in us a contempt for the whole
medical profession ! Before the danger of allowing uncertified
people to practise medicine was recognised, many must have
suffered from the ill results of quacks, as they so suffer to-day
from self-appointed analysts! Every science in its infancy
makes many mistakes, but we need not bann it for that reason ;
on the contrary, by recognising the mistakes that are being
made, we may discover the proper course that this science
must take, and better understand its potentialities.
"Physician heal thyself,, is truer now than it ever was, and
I think there can be no doubt that this is what both Jesus and
the Buddha accomplished in the wilderness ; certainly in Jesus'
case, that self-healing did result in powers of healing others that
closely resemble those of the psycho-analyst of to-day. And
even as theirs was undoubtedly a course of strictest mental
and physical discipline in search of the" Kingdom of Heaven"
that is within, so to-day, " in dealing with himself the (analyst)
doctor must display as much relentlessness, consistency and
perseverance as in dealing with his patients. To work upon him-
self with an equal concentration is truly no small ac;trievement ;
for he brings to bear all the attentiveness and critical judgment
he can summon in showing his patients their mistaken paths,
their false conclusions and infantile subterfuges.... For who
can educate others while himself uneducated ? Who can .en-
lighten his fellows whilst still in the dark himself? ... Just as
the discovery of the unconscious shadow-side once forced the
school of Freud to deal even with questions of religion, so the
latest advance in analytical psychology makes an unavoidable
problem of the doctor'"s ethical attitude.... What was formerly
a method of medical treatment now becomes a method of
self-education, and therewith the horizon of our modern
FROM WORLD ASH TO SUPERCONSCIOUSNESS 169
psychology is immeasurably widened. The medical diploma is
no longer the crucial thing, but human quality instead."1 In
saying this we are opening the potentialities of analytical
activity to all men, but that does not mean that this science is
easier of attainment than the medical diploma-on the con-
trary, I think real human quality is a far more rare and precious
possession than any M.D. Many may become doctors, but few
become saints, and although no matriculation is required for
entrance into the university of self-training, few there be who
take the highest honours ! The nursery and the schoolroom
(or, at worst, the prison) have been considered sufficient
schooling in this direction, but if ever the science of analytical
psychology is to develop its immense inherent possibilities, it
must undoubtedly begin by an ethical training very different
to that with which we have been contented so far. Such training
was the object of the Yoga system, but we Europeans have
never attempted any systematic training of the unconscious;
not recognising its existence we have naturally concentrated on
training the mind, of which we do think we know something ;
but if men are ever to bring to fruition the power that lies
within, there can be no doubt that some kind of self-
discipline, other than mental, must become the way of all
men.
If ever that emerges which is to form the next forward stage
of "reassembling," it seems probable, considering all these
facts, that it must arise out of the depths of the unconscious
mind. But first of all that unconscious will have to cease its
individual existence and ~!~Y its universality, if we may
judge from the fragmentary glimpses we obtain of it at present.
But, as a spur on our way, there is the example of some rare
individuals who undoubtedly did enter into possession of
a more universal consciousness, and if this has been ac-
complis4ed once, there is no question that it might be done
again, if men so desire I One of the greatest of these fore-
runners once spoke out of the depths of his unconscious and
proclaimed: " I have neither death nor fear of death. Nor
was I ever born, nor had I parents, friends or relations ; I have
neither teacher nor disciple ; I am untouched by the senses ;
I am without form without limit, beyond space beyond time ;
I am in everything; everywhere am I."2 Realisation of that
would be the greatest step towards the Absolute that could be
made by man, but if it is ever to become a universal condition
the new excursions into the realm of the unconscious will require
,
1 M.M.S., pp. 59-61. s Sankaracharya.
I70 THE WORLD BREATH
our whole undivided attention. We are very far from this at
present, but I have no doubt that once men realise the full
implication of the state of consciousness which can express itself
in words like the above, they must undoubtedly leave all else
and follow this.
CHAPTER V
WHERE LIES REALITY ?
W
E have now discovered four stages of development
in human consciousness-or mind; we have traced
the gradual emergence of mental powers embracing
ever wider circles of ideas, until the gates have opened on to
something outside our conscious mind which has been re-
christened: psyche. From a simple reaction to, and registra-
tion of sense impressions, on a basis of which our daily life is
built up, to the completely a-material nature of the un-
conscious-from impressions we shared with animals to con-
ditions freed from the restraint of the conscious mind altogether,
we have made a vast stride towards final· emancipation from
physical limitations. And undoubtedly the final stage of all,
if we continue to pursue this line of development, must be a
complete transubstantiation of everything material into some
form of universal mind-energy, that will encompass all things,
and be free for ever from the physical world as known hitherto.
A state will then be attained in which neither form, size, colour,
virtue, beauty, ugliness, electrons or protons, to-day or to-
morrow, will have any more importance whatsoever, and only
those things will still exist which belong to a different world
altogether, things of a completely insubstantial nature:
law as such, truth, creative evolution, all those inexplicable
motive powers that are behind all art and all religion. This
will be the beginning of a new wave :
"Higher than the senses are the objects of sense;
Higher than the objects of sense is the mind ;
And higher than the mind is the intellect (buddhi)
Higher than the intellect is the Great Sel£."1
We have begun to perceive the" intellect," it must some day
lead us to the Great Self, but before that many waves must rise
and fall to carry us nearer into the Shore, we cannot hope to
escape any one of them.
1 Kalka Upanishad, 3-10.
171
I72 THE WORLD BREATH
Our present human stage must therefore be our chief concern
to-day for, untilwe enter the next stage beyond man, all develop-
ments can onlytakeplace by means of the living body, they must
evolve from out of its framework, and must inevitably stand in
close relation to it: the physical and the mental world are at
present two worlds in one, the outer and the inner, but " the
outside must become the inside , if the Kingdom of Heaven, the
next stage, is to come. So far I have been pursuing the evolu-
tionary path of the physical world, in both its inorganic and
organic manifestations, but my chief preoccupation throughout
has been to follow the tracks of the non-physical Law of
Periodicity. In so doing, I think it must have become clear to
all, that there is a continuity of action inherent in the activities
of this law, which would make it appear probable that, through
its instrumentality, something is being achieved that is over
and above the incidents of any mere phenomenal events, of an
importance beyond that of the universe itself. But whatever
be the end in view, it is unquestionable that the human stage
is an important one in the evolution of the whole, and it is
therefore necessary, before attempting to go beyond man, that
we should understand how much there may be of reality in this
human wave, on which to base our further construction: can
we regard anything we know as real, or is everything merely
illusion, as some religions assert?
I do not think that there can be any doubt that the ordinary
conception of the physical world is one purely relative to the
brain of man ; we cannot deny that with a slightly different
construction of mind we should regard it entirely .differently.
It is even doubtful if any two men see things identically the
same. There are certain conventional signs which we employ
by common consent to distinguish one thing from another,
and the mental image of the quality of the thing corresponds
to the name applied to it in the eyes of all men alike, but we
have no means of knowing if its appearance is the same for all
people. The clearest proofs of this diversity of sense apprehen-
sions in men are in the eye for colour, or the ear for music ; for
instance : we know that no two people in the whole world hear
music alike. My neighbour hears supreme beauty in an Adagio
of Mozart, which leaves me cold, whereas I find it in Bach's
Passacaglia, and a third may find the same in Gershwin's
Symphony in Blue ! Clearly we none of us hear the same
sounds, but even in our more material perceptions I doubt if we
are any more alike. I speak of a table, for instance, everyone
knows that I mean some kind of a flat board on legs, upon
WHERE LIES REALITY ? I73
which things may be deposited, but, whether in looking at the
table another sees it as I do is impossible to discover-hence
the varieties of tastes and opinions. The nearest approach to
real agreement that can be met with among human beings is
when, by mathematical calculations, various people arrive at
the same conclusions. This would seem to prove that it is in
mental principles alone, and not in anything apprehended by
the senses, that men can arrive at Truth, therefore it is
obviously also here that we must look to find Reality.
" If Matter were participant and received Reality to the
extent which we are apt to imagine, it would be penetrated by
a Reality thus sucked into its constitution. But we know that
the Entrant is not thus absorbed : Matter remains as it was,
taking nothing to itself; it is the check to the forthwelling
of the Authentic Existence; it is a ground that repels; it
is a mere receptacle to the Realities as they take their common
path (of emanation) and here meet and mingle."1 I think it
is clear that the periodic path we first traced through the
universe was controlled by matter: when the latter had
become sufficiently scattered, one period ended, and a fresh
period arose elsewhere. Taken as one, the entire first period led
to the dead ash of universes, which " repelled " the " Real ''
energies andstarted them on a counter-period. But although one
periodic wave after another coursed over the surface of matter,
which under their dominion took all shapes and forms, it is
more and more certain that in matter the " Entrant " was never
''absorbed,! Protons and electrons were, as Plotinus says,
like '' reflecting vessels that are often set against the sun to
produce fire,'' but never the fire itself!
Therefore if there be no reality in matter, which constitutes
everything of which the human mind has taken cognisance
thus far, whence comes this mind's unquenchable thirst for a
Reality which it has never experienced and yet has sought
unswervingly throughout the ages ? In seeking to solve this
riddle, we should remember above all else that the great
Breath which we have been attempting to comprehend,
must originally have emanated from some source unknown-
Plotinus would have called it the "Authentic Existence,"
Christians" God," and the Mahommedans "ALLAH," although
no title has ever brought us any nearer to an explanation.
In the beginning of our cosmology, we saw a vast unity
which is the nearest we have ever got to that Existence ;
but as matter spread further and further away from its source,
1 Plotinus : Ennead, III, 6-14. \COmpare above, pp. 142-3.
I74 THE WORLD BREATH
it scattered its nature of Oneness, and apparently lost itself
in the immense diversity of phenomena in the universe. Bu,t,
if once the universe started on a period of regathering and
reconcentrating into some form of organised unity again,
it is inevitable that in the course of time, be it however
long, the One should re-collect all things into Itself and
reassemble all that had been scattered. As we descended
the ladder of entropy from the primal One with "mathe-
matical precision," so may we re-ascend it into the future
All-One, when once the first definite traces of reassem-
bling are found. Any concentric motion must have as its
certain goal in ultimate unity-a condition closely resembling
that from which the Ebb-tide once started on its outward
course. . Seeing that there is apparently no reason to doubt
that such a movement has begun, being a necessity of the
universe, we cannot expect to hinder it, we may only retard it
by continuing to oppose ourselves to movements of unification.
We might assist it instead, if we used our new-born conscious-
ness of the ways of Periodicity in order to raise a new wave
that would move on to ever greater unity, finally embracing
the whole earth. That is certainly the only way by which a
further step might be taken towards the ultimate goal.
According to present calculations, life took some 300 million
years to evolve on this planet, and something like 300,000 to
concentrate itself into a body containing mind and conscious-
ness; on the basis of the past rate of the cooling off of this
planet, and the consequent evolution of life, it might seem easy
to prognosticate the length of time this present stage of
physical organisms, namely man, has to live before the new
all-spirit wave of life will be free of matter altogether, this
last having dissolved into radiation. There are, however, two
facts which make this estimate somewhat precarious, and
render our durability shorter than might have been expected
at first : (a) the increasing acceleration of dispersal of bodies
in space, which may render our planet too cold for human
habitation sooner than we imagine, the rate of cooling off
heretofore is no absolute criterion for the future; (b) the in-
creasing acceleration in human mental development. If we
consider all the knowledge acquired· by mankind from the
beginning of recorded history until 200 years ago, and then
realise what the mind of man has done in these last two
centuries, we might conceive that it might take only half its
initial 300,000 years to free itself from the physical body
altogether. There is also another factor in this matt.er that
WHERE LIES REALITY ? I75
should be considered. We saw above that it is the glycogene
stored in the body that feeds the brain and the nervous system ;
it must follow that the more powerful the brain becomes, the
greater must be its demand on glycogene. There must then
come a day when, even though by that time men be wise
enough to live on food containing the maximum of glycogene,
the demand will be greater than the supply, this being to a
certain extent limited by what our stomachs can digest. If
our estimate of the future growth of the mind be correct, it
must give increasing work to the brain and nervous system
which will use up ever more glycogene, and even though the
body make every sacrifice to produce what is required, there
may come a day when it is literally eaten up by the mind. But
if all the statistics collected in this work be correct, the
body must, in dying, give up its ghost in mind energy, which
will be a synthesis of the physical and mental worlds in
one.
This is not a wild speculation, but seems to me the necessary
conclusion to which biological data must lead us, and I cannot
help thinking that the brain acceleration stands in some kind
of relationship to the acceleration of dispersal-but for this I
have, of course, no proof. But one thing I do feel certain of,
and that is that in the future a mere mechanical acceleration
of any sort will not be sufficient, man must some day apply
his mind not to scientific speculations, not to the invention
of better machinery, but to the escape of his own soul from the
limitations of all these things. We might count on a vast
increase in the· velocity of progress, if evolution were governed
by the concentrated effort of all enlightened minds, instead
of their being immersed in the immediate needs of daily life
as in the past. Some few of the greatest men have realised
these facts, but how little can they do as against the over-
whelming weight of public opinion set in other directions. But
we only need consider the history of the nineteenth century to
see what men can accomplish if they one and all set their
minds to work in one direction, what then could not be accom-
plished if all men over the whole earth combined to produce
a new form of life altogether? That this is not only possible
but inevitable sooner or later, I have not the slightest doubt,
and the more men strive to clear the surface of their minds
from the clouds of material preoccupations, the more distinctly
will they behold the inner cord that has linked up the past and
will thread the future. And as they learn to know and use
the power of their own minds, they will reach an understanding
THE WORLD BREATH
so much more vast and all-embracing than anything dreamt
of heretofore, that it will undoubtedly move worlds.
Before vision can be thus perfected, however, there must
necessarily be a long period of preparation; but now that the
new psychology is teaching man a new understanding of him-
self he must eventually realise his many undeveloped forces,
and ultimately all enlightened minds must consciously aim at
building up a condition in which the outer world will conform
to the inner, and thus create a harmony born of a wisdom that
seems to be the undertone of the universe. And then, even
though the spirit still remained chained to the material body,
it would control it for its own ends, instead of being enslaved
by it as at present.
But, just as the mountaineer only reaches one peak, to
discover that there is yet another behind it, so even at this
point the mind would discover that it had not really reached
the summit Reality, and it would still continue to aim at a
complete freedom from something that it would discover to
be the shackles of the body itself. Demanding something
more than mere satisfaction, as it always does, the mind will
not rest content until it is in possession of a complete know-
ledge of all that may lie behind what the senses convey but
poorly ; it must forever strive to detach itself from subjec-
tivity to the physical body until the day dawns when that
body is left behind on Golgotha! Out of these aspirations
arose the religions of the past, to-day men go to the new
psychologists for enlightment on what may underlie con-
sciousness, and undoubtedly their eyes are being opened
to all kinds of phenomena which apparently have no con-
nection whatsoever with the knowledge of the world that
springs from sense perceptions-which was our only knowledge
until about a hundred years ago. Now we know as a fact that
there exists a realm which is not dominated by our subjective
will or desire at all, and of which we are forced to admit the
existence, apart from any expectation or desire for it. And
therefore we might justifiably regard this as the first ray of a
Real World, that is dawning on our minds.
This idea is not completely new, however, for the mystics
foreshadowed this aspect of affairs long ago, and throughout
all ages always aspired at detaching their minds from the
conscious ego, in order to enter a wider consciousness, and attain
Truth free of all illusion. The only difference between our
time and theirs is that they were considered men apart,
illumined by God, whereas we now know that all men who
WHERE LIES REALITY ? I77
earnestly and sincerely dedicate themselves to the acquisition
of knowledge of the unconscious can learn to use it for the
good of themselves and others.
To-day the soul is no more discredited by the learned as the
illusion of women and children ; we know that man's relative
existence is but a passing phase, and that underneath this
phenomenal world there must lie something permanent, to
the attainment of which this world's life may be but the
stepping-stone. And once this is admitted, the mind may
enter its true province at last, namely, to be the user of
stepping-stones to reach the permanent world on the other
bank, which is free of the last vestiges of materiality for ever.
This task will not be inordinately difficult for it, since
inherent in the mind's very construction lies the nature of
crosser of such stones ; for, even if we chose to regard every-
thing--even the Quantum theory, which is often regarded as
the first light of Reality that has ever dawned upon us-as the
creation of our own subjective mind, that mind in itself escapes
this limitation. Although it may be able to analyse all things
and, in the last instance, wish them into existence, it cannot
analyse itself. It may register what is already past, but its
own present it does not know. It is clear, therefore, that
somewhere within the mind lies the secret of the Reality we
seek, in so far as it relates to mankind. Here lies that which
is, above all, not the subjective creation of our bodily functions
any more than it is of our dreams or desires; the great
lesson : " Know Thyself," was not meant to urge man to under-
stand more of his own individual nature-it was a call to
him to know what IS MAN. If once he knows this, it must
follow that he will have made a vast stride towards the dis-
covery of Reality, and be well on his way towards the next
period, the next rise of the Wave.
The search for Reality has driven men to every advance in
knowledge that has been made in the last 5000 years, and
as each step is taken, it is realised that this is already no
more the "real," and again the mind goes peering into the
mists of a further Unknown. Reality is the one thing about
which the mind is completely objective, for, without ever
having experienced it, it knows unerringly that it has never
reached it. Nothing in the whole subjective world can mas-
querade in its cloak. Therefore it still continues to be the goal
of all sciences, philosophies and religions, and it leads us on
to ever renewed efforts as do the ever receding mountain peaks.
Clearly this visible world is not Reality, therefore we are
M
178 THE WORLD BREATH
confronted with the fact that if we are to find it anywhere, it
will have to be in the, as yet uncharted, unconscious mind, and
certainly when I consider this proposition, it does not present
insuperable difficulties to my mind, as is the case with any
other suggestion that is made to solve the problem I
Perhaps when Truth at last discloses itself, we shall realise
that mind is but the subjective expression of that which it now
seeks to know objectively, and man's present condition will
be seen to be as much of an impermanent element as the
physical world from which we are emerging appears in the
eyes of the enlightened physicist ! If, however, my reader
suspects me of being merely a latter~day adherent of the doc-
trine of Maya, I would refer him to Sir Arthur Eddington's
idea of the world; he says: "That which is, is a shell floating
in the infinitude of that which is not,"1-matter floating in an
infinitude of mind energy, of which no one can say where it
lies, nor state wherein" it is." In so far do I believe in reality
and unreality, and I think that in this, East and West, ancient
and modern, meet on common ground, and prove by the
unanimity of their testimonies to what is not Reality, that
here, man intuitively senses something of eternal Truth, and
we may the more unhesitatingly pursue our attempt to dis-
tinguish "that which is" from "that which is not."
For many centuries religion replied to all questions of this
kind by saying that: God is the only Reality, but no one may
ever know Him. To-day, however, the mind is no more
satisfied with this somewhat naive reply, it demands to know
of what stuff its dreams are made, in the hope of ultimately
discovering the Absolute-its Prototype. If mind-stuff or
Intellectual Principle-both of'-Whicn belong to the '' a-
material" realm-be discovered to be the kernel of this whole
present existence, then necessarily the less materialistically
we see and feel, the nearer must we approach to the un-
material Source.
For this it is obviously necessary that we should understand
as much as possible, not only of the mechanism of the mind
as it is in itself, but of its capacities for future development.
Psychology, psycho-analysis, psychiatry, or whatever one
likes to call it, is the baby of sciences, and has done wonders
in the short four-score years since its inception, but in India
the art of the development of subconscious mental powers is
almost as old as religion itself. Long before we in the West
ever dreamt of such possibilities, their system of Yoga
1 N.P. W., p. 83.
WHERE LIES REALITY ? IJ9
harnessed what we have hitherto vaguely known as soul, into a
very proficient instrument for the development of man on
the path to realisation of an ultra-physical realm. But we
are now moving forward at last, we do now recognise and
admit the existence of many things for proclamation of which
our ancestors would have been burnt at the stake, the powers
of the subconscious mind, for instance, or of suggestion, auto
or otherwise. And further I do not think that there can be
any question that it is in this direction that any.future develop-
ment must occur. If we are to realise anything of the nature
of the next wave towards which we are driving, I can but
repeat: it is in the mysteries of the unconscious that it must
be sought.
Of course the question that arises here is: can the mind of
man be regarded as sufficiently perfect to be capable of con-
taining within itself the elements that will eventually lead to
Authentic Existence? This seems a good deal to expect, but
even though knowledge of itself and its own powers be still
incipient, still, containing as it does the capacity for roaming
the entire universe in its quest for enlightenment, we cannot
doubt that the mind will eventually delve down into its own
depths and discover its own sources. And there at the basis
of everything must be the leading string that has been in-
exorably leading the universe forward through all the stages
of its output, and will continue to lead it through its intake,
till final consummation is achieved. Until man appeared on
earth knowledge of this leading string-not only of its nature
but of its mere existence-could never have been obtained
by any universal body, but when with self-conscious mind
arises the power of self-analysis it must only be a matter of
time-a hundred or a million years-before man throws off
all bodies, and experiences the Reality underlying himself and
all else.
Supposing we were to regard the universe as one of those
boxes of babies' blocks which fit into one another, getting
smaller and smaller as they go inwards. Only, if such a thing
be conceivable, the universe blocks fit inside one another and
grow larger and larger as they go inwards-until the last
encompasses all. In order to reach that innermost One, we
have to uncover block after block, but we may be sure that
/- j the outermost is an exact counterpart of its innermost proto-
- " type, and therefore if the mind be regarded as one of the outer
blocks, perfect knowledge of itself must eventually mean an
understanding of the innermost Whole. But that innermost is
I80 THE WORLD BREATH
not a light hidden under a bushel, it is one that streams through
a keyhole and illumines the whole room-the living mind even
now is illuminating· the whole physical universe, but when a
living being attains perfect knowledge of his whole inner self,
he must inevitably be flooded by the undiluted rays from the
source of all knowledge within.
That such rays are here and everywhere cannot be doubted,
there can only be a question of all or nothing where the radia-
tion of All-mind is concerned, but although a diamond be
radiating the sun's rays, it depends on the turn of my hand
whether they gleam in my eyes or not! And once we realise
that our minds contain the rays of Infinite Sunshine, we cannot
but spend our lives turning and twisting their facets till the
rays shine clear '' as the light of the morning when the sun
riseth, even a morning without clouds.''
CHAPTER VI
BEYOND SPACE-TIME
I
T
HE next step on our way to a comprehension of mind
and its capacities for development must be an attempt
to gauge the nature of its limitation by what is regarded
to-day as the framework of the physical universe, namely,
space-time. Is the mind world contained within this two-
fold enclosure, or does it transcend these limitations, as the
new analytical psychology would lead us to suspect ? Be-
longing structurally to the physical world, does the mind
extend beyond it? On this point depends all that can be
known of the i}tture development of our present wave and
of the rise of the next. If, by means of the mind, we can
pass beyond the conditions which limit this world, even
only on rare occasions, or by accident; if only one or two
per cent in the whole history of mankind have accom-
plished such a feat, and thereby experienced a state of heigh-
tened susceptibilities and faculties, then, seeing that they
started by being men of like nature to that of all mankind,
they might be presumed to be forerunners in a state to which
we all possess the key in characteristics common to the human
race. And, further, it were no absurdity to conclude that all
might achieve the same results with the same human nature
rightly handled! The crux of the whole matter seems to lie
in this question of space-time, and it is therefore necessary
before all else to determine whether it be an immovable barrier
beyond which we as men cannot pass, or whether it be only
the four walls necessitated by our present conception of the
universe.
Space and time have since the beginning of religion and
philosophy formed the framework of our mental picture of
the world, but according to Minkovsky's interpretation of the
principle of relativity, space and time now appear in a new
light altogether : they now form part of one continuum, " in
181
!82 THE WORLD BREATH
which it is impossible to separate the space from the time in
any absolute manner."1 The three dimensions of space and
the one of time together form the four-dimensional world
which scientists assure us is the realm in which we live and
of which our consciousness has cognisance. Eddington says of
this: "The system of location in space, called a frame of
space, is only part of a fuller system of location of events in
space and time.... By considering time and space together,
we have been able to understand how the multiplicity of frames
arises. They correspond to different directions of section
of the four-dimensional world of events, the sections being
the 'world-wide instants.' " 2 But, although it may be easy
to say : " multiplicity of frames," and we may imagine we
have thereby said everything, we are still very far from
realising its implications, and if we are ever to escape the
limitation of space-time, we must understand something of the
nature of the obstacles against which we have to contend.
Only thus may we be in condition to realise something of the
nature of the wave that might arise if ever the limits of this
present one were left behind.
Present-day philosophers and scientists tell us that any
progress in the evolution of mankind must be achieved through
a different Time relationship, but, if Time be something more
than merely one wall of the four which encircle our world, it
must evidently contain within itself some characteristic which
has so far escaped our notice. Professor Alexander says that:
'' Time does with its one dimensional order cover and embrace
the three dimensions of space,"3 hence the time factor is not
only one among four but the chief among them, and in a sense
the container of the other three. If, however, it now contains
the three dimensions we exist in, it must have contained the
one and the two dimensional worlds as well, therefore Time
seems to be something like the leading string that has drawn
organic life from one dimension to another in ever:,-widening
circles. In a former chapter we gave a sketch of the rise of
life until it reached the unicellular stage, but since biologists
admit that they are still very much in the dark as to how the
many-celled animals arose from their single-celled ancestors,
and as the only thing "that is tolerably certain is that of all
the many attempts of animals to solve the riddle of a larger
life only two succeeded, those that originated the race of
sponges (which, however, turned out a blind alley) and those
1 Mys. Un., p. 101. 3 N.P.W., p. 61.
\ 3 Space, Time and Deity, Vol. I, Chap. I.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME
that gave rise to Crelenterates and so to all other M~tazoa." 1
I think I may justifiably leave the question of the evolution
of bacteria into metazoa severely alone. There is, however,
one question in relation to multi-cellular organisms when once
they do appear which is most important to our subject, and
that is : when they arose on earth what was their relation
to Time ? Were they subject to it in the same way as we,
did their relation to time evolve together with their relation
to spatial dimensions ? I think a short excursion into biology
will answer this question, and as the matter of our relation·to
time is a very vital one I regard it as my duty to be as precise
as possible.
Apparently "all crelenterates are headless and their sym-
metry is what is termed radial. Moreover, the simplest
members of the phylum are sessile like sponges. True their
fixation is not permanent, they can crawl about a little if
they choose and change their pitch, but they never hunt or
browse. They feed by spreading a net of tentacles to catch
whatever chances by. Thus motionless the early crelenterates
must have fed.'' 2 I do not think there can be any doubt if we
consider the significance of these words, that these creatures
were one-dimensional, and that any experience they in their
unchanging condition can have had, came to them out of
time, in the "single-celled forms or early experimenting free
swimming colonies " which were caught up in their tentacles,
and on which they fed ; their sole consciousness (if feeding can
be termed so) was of waiting in Time forthe next time when
such colonies came their way, a quiescent Time if one may call
it so. " The next great steps to be taken were first to unstick
the animal from the bottom, to emancipate it from its sedentary
habits, to send it freely adventuring through the sea; and,
secondly, to confer upon it a bilateral symmetry like our own,
with back and belly, right and left, for without such symmetry
vigorous locomotion is impossible. . . . (And with it the
animal must become two=-dimensional. Au.) Probably the
first two-sided animals were not unlike the flatworms to-day?
They took to crawling on one side only of the body and with
one end always in front.... The hind end became a passive
acquiescent follower. Thus as a concentration of sense-organs
and nervous tissues in front, there began the evolution of
head and brain."3 Thus arriving at the two-dimensional
animal which, by moving forward, is capable not only of
1 Sc. of L., Bk. V, Chap. 2, par. 4 ff.
3 Ibid., p. 405.
11 Ibid., p. 404.
THE WORLD BREATH
voluntary activities both in height and breadth, but also of -
a recognition, however dim, of time in the sense of approaching
things as it moves towards them in time, and of their passing
away again as it leaves them behind. It is thus clear to me
that with each new dimension, the new condition is heralded
by a progress in time as well as space dimensions, for whereas
the crelenterates could only know a kind of molecular time,
where events occurred with black spaces in between, the fiat
worm knows a consecutive time in which its methods of loco-
motion also play their part.
A further step in the evolution of living creatures is the
development of blood and the tubes for it to flow in---" trans-
port system and marketing facilities all in one. Equipped with
a blood system animals can grow bulky in three dimensions
and yet have their organs compact and solid.... From some
worm-creature such as this, with central nervous system·,
blood-tubes and tubular gut open both before and behind,
and running a large part of its course through a crelom-jacket,
all the higher groups of animals must have branched out."1
It is probable that this is true of vertebrates as well as of arthro-
pods, for these crelemate creatures gave rise to many different
phyla whose descent can be traced, and whilst one main
line gave the world such diverse creatures as earth-worms,
which propagate by transverse fusion, from which the
arthropod phylum is descended, another main line which
branched very early gave rise to two very different products,
the Echinoderms and the Vertebrates. The former do not
concern us here, but the primitive chordates are of deepest
interest for the further evolution of living creatures, for they
" became extremely muscular, and developed a long elastic
skeleton-rod, the noto-chord, down their backs on which the
muscles could pull, and they grew a projection of the body
behind the anus-a tail-which helped them in swimming.
It would be hard to exaggerate the evolutionary importance
of this ·early vertebrate invention of swimming by side-to-side
undulation of the whole body like a fish or a lamprey or a
lancelet. It is by far the swiftest and strongest method of
progression that aquatic life has discovered. Its effects are
written throughout the vertebrate frame, even in those verte-
brates like ourselves, which left the sea ages ago."2 That tail
which seems at first glance of such small importance," speedily
became nothing else but ~uscle together with its necessary
supports and protections,1
and the supply of blood-pipes and
1 Sc. of L., p. 406. 2
Ibid., p. 409.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME
nerve cables needed to nourish it and regulate its actions. . . •
This it was that made the vertebrates the athletes of the
animal world ; the speed and power thus conferred upon them
called for, promoted and encouraged the evolution of better
brains and sense-organs, better co-ordination . . . our stock
swam to supremacy before the fingered limb had been invented.
In a very real sense it was our tails that made us what we are."1
And here again it was a movement in Time that was the
decisive agent, for swifter movement meant more and better
food, and the call for this developed ever more perfect modes of
swimming, which evolved the muscular tail, and so on, to the
great realm of vertebrates and Man, and it is via this same
motion in time that we shall certainly eventually discover the
mechanism thatmust lead to a further dimension, and by which
we may even now detect the first symptoms of it ! Let us there-
fore examine what we know of our present relation to it a little
more closely.
Until a few years ago, the whole spatial world was regarded
by us as an accumulation of solid, dense material, floating in
an imponderable system of points of time. All spatial objects
formed immovable anchors to which we chained the minutes
which composed the passage of time. But the present position
of physical science makes our three-dimensional concept of the
world look like nothing so much as an elaborate worm point of
view. Lindemann, one of the most advanced men of science,
gives a graphic description of the universe from the point of
view of physical science : '' Each particle in such a universe can
be depicted as a world line in the space-time manifold. Its
position at a given moment is fixed by its intersection witbjhe
three-dimensional plane at right-angles to the time axis, its
velocity and consequently its momentum, by the tangent
drawn to the world line at that point."2 But as between the
events of its intersection, the particle is admittedly not to be
found, the idea of world lines has had to be replaced by the
conception of world tubes, or so-called "probability cones,"
within which the particle intersects the three-dimensional plane
at indeterminate points, which points of contact build up our
notion of time. If, therefore, the time we have known of
hitherto has now become l?~t a part of the block: space-time,
within which is formed our conception of the material world,
clearly, then, we must look to find the next dimensional world
in a new aspect of so-called" time." Once men recognise that
1 Ibid., p. 409.
2 Physical Significance of the Quantum Theo,y, p. 44·
186 THE WORLD BREATH
time no more evolves but is only the d~t~r.~inant Q!.. SP5!£~,
making up the above cone, then must we, who possess the
power to recognise this particular aspect of time as static,
look for the symptoms of the next dimension in something
that does move forward and in every direction, and I do not
think that there can be any doubt that it is in Mind alone that
this may be found.
So far, all the above descriptions of space-time are only
scientific theories, I admit, and our common estimate of the
world condition has not been materially altered thereby. But
great minds are always forerunners that perceive a Truth, which
becomes common knowledge to subsequent generations, some-
times even many centuries later : Pythagoras said the world was
round some two thousand years before Galileo's time-what
the Wise know about the universe to-day must eventually
become the property of all mankind. And we are not so very
far from the truth even to-day, for we can quite well visualise
a condition when all that we know now as the space-time setting
of our lives, or even regard scientifically as electro-magnetic
waves, ether waves, photons of energy, etc., will be recognised
to be the static aspect of the world as seen by this present
four-dimensional human animal, and the mind alone will flow
in a space-timeless condition, of which there are at present but
few indications~·
If we would learn something about that stage which must
follow the present space-time stage, the first step must obviously
be to place Time in its proper relation to our lives as well as to
·our minds. So long as we continue to regard it as the flowing
medium that measures the events of the universe, we cannot
hope to understand life in any other form than that in which we
know it at present. If we are ever to escape the dominion of
Time, we must attempt to understand something of what it is
in itself, and, as far as I know, we are indebted to J. W. Dunne
for the only real light that has been thrown on the subject.
In his book, An Experi'Jrf~t with Time, he puts forward the most
interesting and conviilcing hypothesis yet propounded as to the
nature of time per se, and I consider that this work marks the
dawn of a new science, the science of time. I feel it is almost
unfair to extract fragments from a work where every conclusion
is built up on close reasoning-but without the confirmation of
its conclusions I fear that much of what I shall have to say
would appear far-fetched and even unjustifiable. What the
ancient adepts told of their experiences in a dimensional con-
dition outside the common, or what some few modern men
BEYOND SPACE-TIME
have experienced of uncommon phenomena in their daily
lives, assumes a new significance in the light of this new
science.
Admitting that every change of dimension is conditioned by
Time, Dunne says : " If Time passes on or grows, or accumulates
or expends itself, or does anything whatsoever except stand
rigid and changeless before a Time-fixed observer, there must
be another Time which times that activity of, or along, the
first Time, and another Time which times that second Time,
and so on in an apparent series to infinity...." 1 "Every Time
travelling field of presentation is contained within a field one
dimension larger, travelling in another dimension of Time,
the larger field covering events which are' past' and' future'
as well as ' present ' to the smaller field. . . . The serialism
of the fields of presentation involves the existence of a serial
observer. In this respect every time-travelling field is the field
apparent to a similarlytravellingand similarlydimensioned con-
scious observer. Observation by any such observer is observa-
tion by all the conscious observers pertaining to the dimension-
ally larger fields, and is ultimately observation by a conscious
observer at infinity."2 For instance," suppose that we were to
draw a plane diagram of the' family tree' of the entire human
race, employing one dimension of the paper as Space and the
other as Time I. The result would be a network with numerous
points of intersection, representing marriages, and numerous
branchings-off representing births. And you would find that
you could trace in that networkanunbroken connectionbetween
any two points that you chose to select.... If we were to assume
that this diagram exhibited only the cerebra of the individuals
concerned, it would be the first, Stage I, temporal extension
in a Time analysis in which we were dealing with all human
observers together, instead of with one alone. It would repre-
sent, therefore, in the second stage, the connected field II's
of all observers concerned.-Along the lines of this universal
field II network there would travel the individual field I's."3
The conclusion we may draw from all this is that the field
of every individual on earth is but that two-dimensional,
Time I field, one of a series, but it stands to reason that were
we able to free ourselves from the limited consciousness of our
own field I cerebrum, we should enter the more extended field
of all observers together-an all-one consciousness. "Time I
extension has a beginning and an end ... but the fields which
travel over the extensions in the second and' higher' dimen-
1 Exp. with Time, p. 124. 2 Ibid., pp. I5I-3. a Ibid., p. 200.
!88 THE WORLD BREATH
sions of Time do not in any term move from or towards those two
boundaries; they travel straight up between them."1
It is perhaps the most difficult thing we can be called upon
to do, to imagine ourselves in those "higher" dimensions of
time, but I do not consider it impossible! Let us, for instance,
imagine ourselves receding from the earth at a speed quicker
than that of light, we should then see the train of events in
inverse order, for, in the course of our journey, we should catch
up in succession the luminous waves that left the earth before
us, we should, in short, see "terrestial events happening as if
we were ascending the stream of time." Clearly we should,
in such a case, be living under a different order of Time to that
in which we live at present ; by receding or advancing we could
at will see events going, what we call backwards or forwards,
and we could always, if we wished to, reach a place where we
could recover any event once more, hence there would be in
our eyes no beginning and no end. There would only remain a
series of apparently static Time events (as there are~atic Space
events in this dimension) which we should be able to pick up as
we wish. (Of course, all this can only be conceived as happening
on a mental plane, since the physical state would have ceased
together with the space conditions to which it belongs.)
Under such circumstances we should be freed from the
limitations of our world Time : past, present and future
would have ceased to exist, there would only be change or
intervals.
But even if we do not go so far as to imagine ourselves
travelling faster than light, we need only move forward with
the exact speed of light to see that the one event within which
we were travelling would never end, and Space would then cease
as well as Time, because there would be no more points of com•
parison, all the light waves of our universe travelling with us,
nothing would ever appear different to what it was when we
started. We should then know no end of time nor anything else.
Dunne's reasoning certainly indicates that (failing the arbitrary
interference of some deity) the substratum, " which is the
extension in many dimensions of Time, of the primary extension
in Time I . . . persists to infinity in all Time dimensions except
the first. . .. So observer I (ourselves in our present dimen-
sions? Au.) seems to be the only observer that dies."2 And
directly death ceases to be, so also does its companion, birth, or
rather, vice versa ; for an observer .in that substratum,
Time as a flowing medium would have completely ceased,
1 Exp. with Time, p. 162. 2 Ibid., p. 162.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME I8g
and he would be a wanderer between Time points as he now is
between space points.
This may seem an impossible conception, yet science is
undoubtedly moving in that direction ; if even of the things that
are at the basis of the physical world, we cannot state with
certainty that they are moving, since the principle of indeter-
minacy has been built upon the fact that we see an electron
in unpropheciable flashes, and there can be no absolute certainty
that what was here is the same as is now there, it is not
possible to assert that any one thing actually moves across Time
any more. And if the very basic units of the universe cannot be
proved to take Time, wherein could we expect to trace its
manifestations with any amount of certainty? I am bound to
admit, ·however, that the abolition of Time is for the moment
m·erely a mental conception, and has nothing to do with the
world we live in, we shall have to evolve into very different
/
beings to what we are at present before these ideas can be
experienced !
In considering mankind in relation to these questions, it is
impossible, however, to make an assertion which applies to
all men alike, there is undoubtedly a very great difference
between the world as conceived by the man who is content
to accept it as his senses know it to be, and the world as it
appeared to the minds of some few, and probably appears to
the dawning perceptions of those who already divine something
of the next stage on the inflowing tide. As ourselves, living in
this space-time universe, everything we know is only perceptible
to us by the rate of its motion through space and time 1in our
earthly conditions, even this very table at which I sif would
have no consistency but for the high speed of its molecules,
as we learnt above; but, if we project our minds beyond
these sensual perceptions, beyond these four-dimensional
conditions, we discover, at the very heart of our so-called
"materialistic" religion of science, ideas that closely resemble
the older metaphysical conceptions of a future state.{ If all
realistic 1 thought agrees in forecasting a condition outside
space-time, even though at present it be only conjectural, the
time will surely come when it will become Reality. Once we
perceive our illusions, it is only a matter of time before they are
abandoned. Could the crelenterate tell the flatworm its idea
of the world, the flatworm would laugh and say," That is your
illusion ! " So do we when we consider the two-dimensional
conception which such a worm may have, and so will the being
1 In the philosophical sense of the term.
I go THE WORLD BREATH
that may arise on the crest of the next wave, when he looks
down from his tranquil heights and contemplates our struggles
in the meshes of our space-time nets. That we already know
as a scientific fact that this ultra space-time condition exists,
in a reality which so far eludes our normal apprehension of
things, is the first ray that presages the dawn.
One more word regarding the present scientific conception of
space as such. Our present relation to space seems as insecure as
is our relation to Time. Science seems to have destroyed the
bedrock of all our pet illusions : we know the world as our
eyes see it to-day, that is all we can say with certainty-to-
morrow our minds may contemplate a different world alto-
gether. This instability of everything that mankind has
always considered most immutable is perhaps at the bottom
of all the unrest in the world to-day. We ourselves have become
relative beings, even in our own eyes, since Einstein has proved
that the stability of the very foundation of our lives, namely,
Space, is no more unassailable. In fact, not only does the
theory of relativity show that we are existing in something
fluid like an ocean with rising and falling waves which yet
never progress, but that even the terms of this conception can
only be accepted in relation to the conditions of our earth.
"There is a frame of space relative to a terrestrial observer,
another frame relative to the nebular observers, others relative
to other stars. Frames of space are relative. Distances,
lengths, volumes-all quantities of space-reckoning which
belong to the frames-are likewise relative."1 This is no
mere theory, but a fact that has been proved by the Fitz-
Gerald-Lorentz contraction, which has altered the whole
situation as regards our relation to space. Until FitzGerald's
experiments, space had always safely been described by any
given measurement by centimetres, acres or pints, and the
distance from one solid body to another was our framework,
all of which gave us a sense of knowing everything about space
and its contents. As a result of the above-mentioned experi-
ments, however, the measuring rod, which was the infallible
measure of space, has been proved to have only a relative value :
'' if we had been concerned to deal with lengths of the order I0-9
or I0-8 em. and therefore compelled to use measuring-rods con-
taining but a few particles, it is improbable that the concept of
distance and itsderived concept-spacewouldeverhave arisen,''2
for the rod would have been discovered to oscillate in length as
1 N.P.W., p. 21.
9 F. A. Lindemann : Physical Significance of the Quantum Theory, p. 81.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME I9I
much as that which it was intended to measure. Owing to the
fact that this amount is 'so small in comparison to the objects
we usually measure however, we are unable to perceive it
under ordinary circumstances, and the measuring-rod is still
sufficient evidence for the existence, shape and size of the spatial
realm. But, even though we must still continue to measure
the world with our old friend the measuring-rod, yet to our
mind's eye it now shares the fate of all other material objects,
is, namely, in continuous vibration, which robs it of its value as
the final and absolute measme of space. As a result of all
this, a very strange fact comes to light: just as science had
disproved the movement of time as such, in the same breath
it makes space become unfixed, and they apparently join
together as something neither moving nor motionless, and in
the end we can only picture ourselves as rocking in some form
of fluid cradle which moves without progressing ! This is the
most amazing reaction from Victorian materialism that could
possibly be conceived: only fifty years ago, science had mad'e
the world ultra-material by its assertion that all things in space
were composed of atoms "like tiny billiard balls!" To-day
we not only realise that all atoms are oscillating, but even admit
that their intrinsic properties are unknown since all attempts
to define their exact position are fruitless, and even that which
links them together is unknowable. Eddington sums up these
facts in one masterly sentence: "The suggestion is that anl
association of exact position with exact momentum can neverf
be discovered because there is no such thing in nature."1 What)
then, becomes of space and time or even space-time ?
There does remain one thing, however, and that is the mind
that conceives all these things, the mind that makes the world
appear sheer materialism at one moment, and turns it into
waves the next; the mere fact that it continues to analyse
and seek for solutions is proof that It knows that absolute
Truth has never yet been reached. A few years ago it would ,
have been regarded as insanity or religious mania to suggest
that there might exist a world entirely unlike the physical
world we have always known-not beyond the grave, but here
within reach of every man, a world unlimited by space-time,
or matter, of which our subconscious minds, equally unlimited,
might obtain cognisance. By opening our eyes to the fact that
we possess within us a power not controlled by the physical
conditions which rule ordinary life, the new science of psycho-
analysis has made it evident that neither are our senses nor
1 N.P.W., p. 225.
THE WORLD BREATH
space-time universal frameworks, andthat there exist conditions -
outside the domain of either. But if this be so, then might that
power which is free be instrumental in revealing to us the world
conditions peculiar to itself, in fact it is highly probable that
the sources of the inspiration that led scientists to the over-
throw of a material, limited universe of mass, moving through
substantial ether, are to be found in this very insubstantial,
free, substratum of the mind. What, but something itself free
from space-time, would dare assert that: "Time and space
are mere phantoms,"1 and" all that exists in reality is a sort of
union of these entities"? 2 But that being so, we should now
realise that, could we but enter the state of that which is this
"union," we should enter a freedom unknown hitherto on
earth.
II
Before we can finally dismiss the scientific aspect of the
space-time problem, and turn to its more human aspect, I
feel there is one great question still left unanswered regarding
this matter, and that is the scientific reckoning of Time by
entropy rule. So long as we are forced to mark the stages of
universal evolution by entropy-change, there can neither be
any definite constructional process, nor any in-gathering
towards a final Oneness, for it is one of the most fundamental
tenets of present-day science that: "nothing in the statistics
of an assemblage can distinguish a direction of time when
entropy fails to distinguish one" ;3 this fact Eddington con-
siders of such supreme importance that he puts these words
in italics! Entropy change is not only a scientific hypothesis
which explains certain phenomena, but it is a fact proved
beyond question by all subjective observation: ordinarily
speaking we cannot conceive of history rolling backwards, of
all elements re-becoming hydrogen, of planets dropping back
into the sun and all suns re-gathering into one mass of nebular
substance ! But as against the overwhelming evidence for the
existence of passing time as counted by the dissociation of the
universe, there appears to be one element which refuses to
disintegrate and which accomplishes the seemingly impossible
task of climbing the ladder which matter descends, and that
is the mind element. Let us, for instance, take the illustration
which is most commonly used in this relation, and follow it to
its logical conclusion. "If you take a pack of cards, as it
comes from the maker, and shuffle it for a few minutes, all
1 Minkovsky. 2 Ibid. 3
N.P. W., p. 79·
BEYOND SPACE-TIME 193
trace of the original systematic order disappears. The order
will never come back, however long you shuffle."1 As a
matter of fact, it is obvious that with regard to a pack of cards,
which only contains a limited number of possibilities, there is
quite a good chance that the original order may eventually
reappear; but even so this occurrence is so rare among card-
players, that when a case does occur it is published in the
papers ! If such be the conditions relating to a pack of merely
fifty-two cards, we can easily conceive that the chances of the
vast material in the universe ever returning into its " original
systematic order" may be regarded as nil-that is if it continue
to be governed by chance. But there is one small factor that
puts a different complexion to the matter, namely, the mind,
which can undoubtedly sort the cards into their original
order at wish. Is it not possible that this simile holds good
with regard to universal conditions and that entropy ~~ 1!Q!:
drag the mind down with it ? I think this idecL!s<faily gaining
ground among men of science; they have to admit, even in
relation to biology, that it is a naughty child which refuses to
march in line with the rest of their well-regulated entropy
" caterpillar " ; but what is even more disconcerting is that
the psyche refuses to be entrapped even by its own science of
psychology and insists on going its own way, free of all defini-
tions. When, therefore, out of the unlimited wisdom of this
free mind comes the proclamation that "Time does not flow
any more than space flows-it is we that are flowing wanderers
in a four-dimensional universe," we must conclude that if we
also ceased to flow, we should inevitably escape from the last
fortress of time, even entropy change.
I must however admit that, although it is easy enough to
say that mind could make the universal cards "unbecome
shuffled," yet to put this idea into practice is a very different
matter. But if we remember what was said above regarding
11
biological progress," and consider the history not of nations,
but of mankind, I think that we may observe a growing
tendency throughout the course of it towards increasing
organisation, an integration as against the disintegrating
processes of Nature. Whereas 20,000 years ago there existed
only the animal herd instinct, 5000 years ago men's minds had
guided them into extending herds into nations, which formed
self-protecting communities, inspired by the same aims,
possessing the same culture. And lastly, something greater
than self-interest, the mind seeking Truth, has formed unities
1 Ibid., p. 63.
N
194 THE WORLD BREATH
which overstep the boundaries of nationalities : the Buddha,
Jesus and Mahommed have altered the course of mankind
and formed brotherhoods that have spread over entire·
continents, regardless of race or colour.
These same facts apply also to individuals : whereas 3000
years ago the only men who possessed any knowledge were
the few priests behind temple walls, to-day whole groups of
men co-operate in trying to penetrate the secrets of Nature
and solve the riddles of the universe, whilst millions hang
on their words, hungrily demanding knowledge. But it is
not knowledge which is the supreme factor in this matter :
when Jesus placed as the second greatest of all commandments
that men love their neighbours as themselves, He evidently
knew that were this condition to obtain, mankind would have
surmounted the process of universal disintegration and be
One. To feel one with all mankind, this is the supreme goal
which mankind sooner or later has got to attain : " He who
would enter that pure nature free from all separateness, he
must have detached himself from all personality, so that he
concedes as much good to the man who lives beyond the sea,
and on whom he has never set eyes, as to him who lives at his
side and is his trusted friend. So long as thou concedest more
good to thine own person than to that man whom thou hast
never seen, so art thou entirely astray, and never yet hast
thou, even for a single instant, espied that fundamental simple-
ness beneath."1 Just as there are various parts of a body
but underlying all is the simple conception: man, so should it
be with mankind. Many men of many species, but funda-
mentally one : mankind-to which one and all contribute
their share, and until we not only recognise but feel that
" fundamental simpleness," we can never hope to raise the
next wave. The force of entropy must be overcome at any
price, that is the first step, and if we would apply ourselves to
this, we 1nust begin by steeping ourselves in a sense of all-
unity, whatever religion we profess. (This idea is a universal
force, and should be over and above and encompassing, religion,
for it is what the universe is· calling for.} If we would bring
back order out of chaos, we can only do so by applying our-
selves to making the universal cards, in the shape of man,
re-become unshuffled.
The World vVar was the greatest set back that man's struggle
against entropy has ever known, but even so we need not
despair, for this was but the reaction of the physical nature of
1 Ekkehard, Vol. I, p. g8.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME I95
man against the forces of the mind, that are threatening to
overpower it-and in spite of this disaster, we need only look
around us to see that mankind is still aspiring at unity in spite
of all obstacles and hindrances. Is not the League of Nations
one of the greatest steps hitherto attempted in that direction?
And not only that but mental community is also striding for-
ward : India and Europe are meeting on the common ground of
psychology, and making an effort towards a greater understand-
ing of Man, based on the wisdom of both ; America and Europe
have formed a great brotherhood in physical science, each con-
tributing their share to an understanding of the universe in
which we live. And even though one nation ·casts out its
greatest prophets of the new religion of science-these imme-
diately find hundreds of arms open to receive them. The
barrier of nationality does not exist among the members of
this brotherhood any more than it did among those of the
religious brotherhoods of the past. (Clearly, where the spirit-
or mind-rules, all those subject to it must become a unity.
The road to Truth is, and always has been, something which
places men outside the disintegrating influences of the physical
world, and it is slowly but surely building up brotherhoods
whose unity nothing shall dissolve. In the kingdom of the
mind the scattered is being garnered, the random directed,
in inverse ratio to the scattering universe ruled by entropy ;
perhaps when matter will have burst, like the last rocket
in a play of fireworks, into a final shower of sparks, and
there is no more physical unity left, the universe will be
transformed into the all-Oneness of mind unity. Some
day in the far future there will certainly only be such mind
unities left; national differences will very soon disappear and
the only distinctions among races will be purely academic
ones. When all finally combine to proclaim the sameness of
ideal, then shall the whol~ of mankind be one people pursuing
one goal of ultra-physical nature-this stage will sink into
abeyance, and the next will emerge, more closely and perfectly
a unity than anything we can conceive of at present.
The diffic~ty of conjecturing what this great ~uture unity
will be like is at present insurmountable, for science has shown
that from the very outset every new unity that was formed
produced new qualities of an entirely different nature to any
·of-its individual components. Beginning at the foundations
_of the universe, at the hydrogen atom, we find that its two
elements produce different results in every successive combina-
tion : whether we think of them in helium, or radium, or
I92 THE WORLD BREATH
space-time universal frameworks, andthatthere exist conditions
outside the domain of either. But if this be so, then might that
power which is free be instrumental in revealing to us the world
conditions peculiar to itself, in fact it is highly probable that
the sources of the inspiration that led scientists to the over-
throw of a material, limited universe of mass, moving through
substantial ether, are to be found in this very insubstantial,
free, substratum of the mind. What, but something itself free
from space-time, would dare assert that : " Time and space
are mere phantoms,"1 and" all that exists in reality is a sort of
union of these entities"? 2 But that being so, we should now
realise that, could we but enter the state of that which is this
u union," we should enter a freedom unknown hitherto on
earth.
II
Before we can finally dismiss the scientific aspect of the
space-time problem, and turn to its more human aspect, I
feel there is one great question still left unanswered regarding
this matter, and that is the scientific reckoning of Time by
entropy rule. So long as we are forced to mark the stages of
universal evolution by entropy-change, there can neither be
any definite constructional process, nor any in-gathering
towards a final Oneness, for it is one of the most fundamental
tenets of present-day science that : " nothing in the statistics
of an assemblage can distinguish a direction of time when
entropy fails to distinguish one" ;3 this fact Eddington con-
siders of such supreme importance that he puts these words
in italics 1 Entropy change is not only a scientific hypothesis
which explains certain phenomena, but it is a fact proved
beyond question by all subjective observation : ordinarily
speaking we cannot conceive of history rolling backwards, of
all elements re-becoming hydrogen, of planets droppirig back
into the sun and all suns re-gathering into one mass of nebular
substance! But as against the ove!Whelming evidence for the
existence of passing time as counted by the dissociation of the
universe, there appears to be one element which refuses. to
disintegrate and which accomplishes the seemingly impossible
task of climbing the ladder which matter descends, and that
is the mind element. Let us, for instance, take the illustration
which is most commonly used in this relation, and follow it to
its logical conclusion. " If you take a pack of cards, as it
comes from the maker, and shuffle it for a few minutes, all
1 Minkovsky. 2 Ibid. 3
N.P.W., p. 79·
BEYOND SPACE-TIME I93
trace of the original systematic order disappears. The order
will never come back, however long you shuffle."1
As a
matter of fact, it is obvious that with regard to a pack of cards,
which only contains a limited number of possibilities, there is
quite a good chance that the original order may eventually
reappear; but even so this occurrence is so rare among card-
players, that when a case does occur it is published in the
papers ! If such be the conditions relating to a pack of merely
fifty-two cards, we can easily conceive that the chances of the
vast material in the universe ever returning into its " original
systematic order " may be regarded as nil-that is if it continue
to be governed by chance. But there is one small factor that
puts a different complexion to the matter, namely, the mind,
which can undoubtedly sort the cards into their original
order at wish. Is it not possible that this simile holds good
With regard to universal conditions and that entropy ~ I!Q!
drag the mind down with it ? I think this idecLiscfiiily gaining
ground among men of science; they have to admit, even in
relation to biology, that it is a naughty child which refuses to
march in line with the rest of their well-regulated entropy
"caterpillar"; but what is even more disconcerting is that
the psyche refuses to be entrapped even by its own science of
psychology and insists on going its own way, free of all defini-
tions. When, therefore, out of the unlimited wisdom of this
free mind comes the proclamation that " Time does not flow
any more than space flows-it is we that are flowing wanderers
in a four-dimensional universe," we must conclude that if we
also ceased to flow, we should inevitably escape from the last
fortress of time, even entropy change. .
I must however admit that, although it is easy enough to
say that mind could make the universal cards "unbecome
shuffled," yet to put this idea into practice is a very different
matter. But if we remember what was said above regarding
11
biological progress," and consider the history not of nations,
but of mankind, I think that we may observe a growing
tendency throughout the course of it towards increasing
organisation, an integration as against the disintegrating
processes of Nature. Whereas 20,000 years ago there existed
only the animal herd instinct, sooo years ago men's minds had
guided them into extending herds into nations, which formed
self-protecting communities, inspired by the same aims,
possessing the same culture. And lastly, something greater
than self-interest, the mind seeking Truth, has formed unities
1 Ibid., p. 63.
N
194 THE WORLD BREATH
which overstep the boundaries of nationalities : the Buddha,
Jesus and Mahommed have altered the course of mankind
and formed brotherhoods that have spread over entire
continents, regardless of race or colour.
These same facts apply also to individuals: whereas 3000
years ago the only men who possessed any knowledge were
the few priests behind temple walls, to-day whole groups of
men co-operate in trying to penetrate the secrets of Nature
and solve the riddles of the universe, whilst millions hang
on their words, hungrily demanding knowledge. But it is
not knowledge which is the supreme factor in this matter:
when Jesus placed as the second greatest of all commandments
that men love their neighbours as themselves, He evidently
knew that were this condition to obtain, mankind would have
surmounted the process of universal disintegration and be
One. To feel one with all mankind, this is the supreme goal
which mankind sooner or later has got to attain: "He who
would enter that pure nature free from all separateness, he
must have detached himself from all personality, so that he
concedes as much good to the man who lives beyond the sea,
and on whom he has never set eyes, as to him who lives at his
side and is his trusted friend. So long as thou concedest more
good to thine own person than to that man whom thou hast
never seen, so art thou entirely astray, and never yet hast
thou, even for a single instant, espied that fundamental simple-
ness beneath."1 Just as there are various parts of a body
but underlying all is the simple conception: man, so should it
be with mankind. Many men of :many species, but funda-
mentally one : mankind-to which one and all contribute
their share, and until we not only recognise but feel that
"fundamental simpleness," we can never hope to raise the
next wave. The force of entropy must be overcome at any
price, that is the first step, and if we would apply ourselves to
this, we 1nust begin by steeping ourselves in a sense of all-
unity, whatever religion we profess. (This idea is a universal
force, and should be over and above and encompassing, religion,
for it is what the universe is calling for.} If we would bring
back order out of chaos, we can only do so by applying our-
selves to making the universal cards, in the shape of man,
re-become unshuffied.
The World War was the greatest set back that man's struggle
against entropy has ever known, but even so we need not
despair, for this was but the reaction of the physical nature of
1 Ekkehard, Vol. I, p. g8.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME I95
man against the forces of the mind, that are threatening to
overpower it-and in spite of this disaster, we need only look
around us to see that mankind is still aspiring at unity in spite
of all obstacles and hindrances. Is not the.League of Nations
one of the greatest steps hitherto attempted in that direction?
And not only that but mental community is also striding for-
ward : India and Europe are meeting on the common ground of
psychology, and making an effort towards a greater understand-
ing of Man, based on the wisdom of both ; America and Europe
have formed a great brotherhood in physical science, each con-
tributing their share to an understanding of the universe in
which we live. And even though one nation ·casts out its
greatest prophets of the new religion of science-these imme-
diately find hundreds of arms open to receive them. The
barrier of nationality does not exist among the members of
this brotherhood any more than it did among those of the
religious brotherhoods of the past. (Clearly, where the spirit-
or mind-rules, all those subject to it must become a unity.
The road to Truth is, and always has been, something which
places men outside the disintegrating influences of the physical
world, and- it is slowly but surely building up brotherhoods
whose unity nothing shall dissolve. In the kingdom of the
mind the scattered is being garnered, the random directed,
in inverse ratio to the scattering universe ruled by entropy;
perhaps when matter will have burst, like the last rocket
in a play of fireworks, into a final shower of sparks, and
there is no more physical unity left, the universe will be
transformed into the all-Oneness of mind unity. Some
day in the far future there will certainly only be such mind
unities left; national differences will very soon disappear and
the only distinctions among races will be purely academic
ones. When all finally combine to proclaim the sameness of ·
ideal, then shall the whole of mankind be one people pursuing
one goal of ultra-physical nature-this stage will sink into
abeyance, and the next will emerge, more closely and perfectly
a unity than anything we can conceive of at present.
The difficulty of conjecturing what this great ~uture unity
will be like js at present insurmountable, for science has shown
that from the very outset every new unity that was formed
produced new qualities of an entirely different ·nature to any
of--its individual components. Beginning at the foundations
of the universe, at the hydrogen atom, we find that its two
elements produce different results in every successive combina-
tion : whether we think of them in helium~ or radium~ or
Ig6 THE WORLD BREATH
in the human body-although fundamentally all are the
same. But: "An electron in a living body is different
from an electron outside it by reason of the plan of the
body . . . now we are told that out of fellowship all
protons and all electrons are exactly alike. So be it out of
fellowship. But we say that in fellowship, that is, as members
(of helium, for instance. Au.), all four electrons are in some
measure emergently different in accordance with the part
they severally play."1 But why oxygen, hydrogen and carbon
dioxide in fellowship should have evolved into life, for instance,
is an insoluble mystery to this day. Be it in astronomy,
physiology, biology1 or even history1 we are everywhere faced
with the same fact, there is nowhere any exception to the rule
that several elements in combination produce something new
and unprophesiable. And when we come to consider mankind,
are things any different? To quote Mr. Haldane, who is ·as
great an authority as we can find on this subject: "In
connection with the biological interpretation, I pointed out
that not only does organic determination extend out into the
environment of an organism, but that when apparently separate
centres of life or organisms are in near contact with one another,
so that their environments coincide, these lives may manifest
in themselves a wider life than that which would appear in
connection with each component organism if it were separate
from the rest. In the case of conscious personality we see the
same thing on the psychological plane and exemplified in a very
striking manner. The interests of associated persons become
a common interest. This does not mean that the common
interest is merely the algebraical sum of the more or less
conflicting interests of the associated persons, but that there is
an extended organised interest and a corresponding perception
and voluntary activity in which this extended interest is
manifested. . . . Although individual interest is still dis-
tinguishable, it may be completely overborne by the common
interest. Individual perception and individual conscious
activity are then merged in the wider perception and conscious
activity . . . to conscious interest there is no limitation of
time or space ... we see that in conscious behaviour we are
not dealing with something which, like the ' bodies ' of the
Newtonian world, can be regarded as simply existing here and
now. The here and now of conscious behaviour reach out
over all other heres and nows."2
1 ].P.S., January, 1930, Lloyd Morgan.
2 J. S. Haldane : The Sciences and Philosophy, p. 108.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME 197
We cannot deny that such conscious interests manifesting
in groups have given the world the possessions that have
built up civilisation ; but where they spring from, and where
they will lead us, remains as insoluble a mystery as ever. We
ask ourselves what it was that made the Greeks the fathers of
Art and Philosophy-the Romans of Law-the Semitic and
Indian people of Religion, and our modem European civilisa-
tion of Science, but there is no reply. We only know that out
of the "organised interests" of each of these nations has
sprung something which has resulted in a vast stride in the
mind development of the human race. More especially is
this true in the case of the great religious movements, which
have built up amidst the vast concourse of their adherents, a
common mind, less easily definable than the contribution of
nations, but clearly recognisable in the ideals pursued by
them. But the fact that stands out above all others is that the
final achievement of all these groups of men, either national
or religious, has always been a non-physical achievement and
has resulted in a progress of the human race, in the direction
of more perfect mental or spiritual development-what is
commonly called civilisation. And this is true even of science,
which is apparently the religion of materialism, but is it not
also a religion of progress? Einstein's theories of relativity
and gravitation, the new theories of wave mechanics, of
cosmology, of psychology, etc., are enthralling to mankind,
not because they offer a new explanation of the nature of man,
matter or stars, but because they open new avenues to the age-
old search for Truth, which is something not the property of
one man or nation, but belonging to the realm of universal
values. And in parenthesis be it said, on its way in search of
Truth, science is increasingly opening its doors to the religious
ideas of God-the One, primal source of all things.
Everything that has non-material value like religion or
philosophy, or non-material foundations like laws and sciences,
necessarily carries mankind towards an ever more embracing
mental synthesis ; the more we are induced to regard life
merely as the cup whose contents are non-physical, the nearer
do we approach to the day when we shall have completely
absorbed the contents and may throw the cup away. Mental
syntheses necessarily also overleap the barriers of physical
limitation between one individual and another; the more men
advance in the mind realm, the more closely will they unite,
because Truth is One, and the nearer men approach to it, the
more surely must all divisions cease.
198 THE WORLD BREATH
The nature of that condition is certainly beyond our ken,
although its occurrence admits of nice mathematical calcula-
tion: (a) If four combine to make one, as in the first combina-
tion of hydrogen into helium; and (b) two of these (or eight
of the first) again make one; (c) further, two of these last (or
four of (b) and sixteen of (a)) again make one, this continually
extending linking must eventually carry us with mathematical
precisi<?n to a Supreme One, which embraces every unit under
the sun. And there we have reached the goal of all the
dreams of mankind; the all-containing, all-pervasive, nowhere
non-existent ONE.
But in order that men may some day reach this goal, the
mind must persist in reascending the entropy gradient, until
it can collect within itself all the physical bodies in the universe.
We must make a beginning by obtaining complete mental
control over the mechanism of our bodies ; once we become
capable of doing this, we can employ our power for the sole
purpose of enlarging and perfecting the mind, the new element
that has been born into the universe and of which we alone
among all living beings are possessed-a difficult enough task
in view of the little we actually know of the real nature of the
mind! There is one point that seems to hold out a hope that
our endeavour will not be fruitless, however, and that is, that
the physical organism was seen above to be so arranged,
that it feeds the mental life, therefore the body is no actual
hindrance, although later the mind will have to free itself
from all dependence on mechanical agencies, ~nd control its
own growth. Finally the last thin cloud of matter will disperse,
and lying serenely underneath will be found the firmament of
Truth.
Many will consider this conclusion rather unfounded, but
although the mind be of an entirely different nature to any
physical element we as yet know of-perhaps some new form
of energy ?-yet, by its periodic cycles moving whole nations
as well as individuals in larger or smaller waves of rising or
setting power, it still fits into the framework of the ~niversal
organism, and therefore we may assume that it, like stars and
nebulre, has its definite stages. Every cycle as we know must
be built up on the ashes of the last, nothing may appear out
of its time, the building must be constructed floor above floor:
"In climbing no man may overleap steps, for this the steps
will never forgive,''1 Therefore we find that every innovator
of any kind arises out of the heart of a nation prepared for that
1 Nietzsche: Thus Spake Zarathustra: The Tree on the Hill.
BEYOND SPACE-TIME I99
specific knowledge : Buddha rose out of Brahman India,
Jesus out of monotheistic Palestine ; philosophic Greece
produced Plato, mystic Italy, Dante ; the nations of ~he
nineteenth century all struggling for power produced Nietzsche,
our scientific era produced Einstein ; none of these men could
have given the race their treasures had they not been children
of their own time and place. It is apparently a matter of the
mind producing that which is the fruit of each cycle as it
comes-January blossom gets killed by the frosts !-but spring
blossoms must by the rules of their own constitution eventually
ripen into fruit.
There is one phenomenon in the process of mind which is
perhaps difficult to understand; each civilisation as it arises
seems to contradict many of the dogmas of the last. Do none
then speak the truth? All do on the contrary, for although
there is but one Truth, it has many facets which alter according
to the vision of those who seek it. Anyone who has climbed
mountains knows that the view alters at every step of the
ascent, although the peak itself remains ever the same. To-day
men are inclined to lend ear to what is told them by Einstein,
Eddington, or Planck, and are sceptical as regards what was
said by those who sought Truth in itself, from out of the
depths of their own minds. But there is no absolute reason
why men who devote their lives to an explanation ofthe physical
universe by mathematical means should be more infallible
than those who seek Truth from within, both are equally
justified. And ultimately they all draw their truths from the
same sources, if we are to believe Jung. Our real reason for
preferring our modern prophets is that our present-day lives,
our industries, our commerce, are, equally with science, all
constructed on a basis of mathematics, which becomes the
Deus ex machina of our existence-hence our religion! But
even this science of mathematics when regarded in itself is as
unmaterial as any religious belief, woven as it is out of pure
reason, and of this it can be said as truly as of any religion
that its whole aim is the construction of unities out of a multi-
plicity of factors! Everything attained by any great scientist
to-day is a victory of the mind over the entropy rule-only
so far no one has paid any attention to the significance of this
fact-we have still much to learn in these matters.
CHAPTER VII
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE
I
HAVE so far treated the question of man's relation to
space-time from its sci~ntific and historical aspects, but
if space-time is proved to be no boundary in any absolute
sense, we should surely be made aware of this by some experi-
ence in our daily lives, or at least the lives of the most evolved
among men should show some signs of exceeding those limita-
tions. If we were unable to trace any form of life freed from
space-time, any idea of freedom therefrom would look suspi-
ciously like a mere scientific theory. But if space-time could
be proved to be a mere form of measurement related to our
sense impressions, what would become of our consciousness of
days and hours, places and things, which is after all at the
basis of our existence as such ? If such consciousness be some-
thing that can be overcome in real life as well as in scientific
experiments and it could be proved that this had actually been
accomplished at any time, those who did so being obviously in
a condition superior to that of their fellow-men, this would
justify us in attempting to realise the same for ourselves and
others.
What is there in common human experience that could
mitigate against the overwhelming evidence for the existence
of space-time? Historically speaking, there is the experience
of seers past and present, who have registered events occurring
at a distance, experiencing a tragedy, for instance, of which
the conscious mind knew nothing. Then there is the experience
of prophetic dreams, the occurrence of which is· to-day
undeniable. Whatever faculty it be that enables people to
have such experiences, it unquestionably proves that under
certain circumstances, "absolute elsewhere, and "absolute
future, can be abolished. The highest Yogis or Lamas of
India or Thibet are said to be capable of placing themselves
at will in events past or future, near or far, but in Europe we
are inclined to treat such assertions with a good deal of
incredulity. If, however, we were to discover examples of the
200
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 20I
same powers at our very doors, among people we should
consider quite normal, we might be inclined to take a different
view of the matter.
Considering that the ultra-space-time condition is only one
stage in the general scheme of the universe I am attempting
to portray, I cannot give it the attention I might wish;
but I cannot leave this matter without making it clear that
such a condition is not a mere projection of the scientific
mind, but a very real thing, and it is impossible to do this with-
out adducing some actual experiences of living persons, as well
as historical ones to support my contention. From the former I
shall choose three examples, for the truth of which I can vouch,
which may give my readers some idea of conditions that may be
universal at some future time.
The first is the extraordinary experience of Professor V.,
the famous Geneva neurologist, who told the story himself to a
friend of mine,· G. S., who was his friend as well as patient.
Professor V. was walking one day in a street of Geneva, when he
suddenly found himself in a train travelling from Berlin to
Frankfurt as he presently discovered. He opened conversation
with a stranger sitting opposite, and after a while they entered
into an interesting discussion on philosophy which lasted the
rest of the journey. At Frankfurt they both got off the train,
and having parted from his new friend, Professor V. suddenly
found himself back in the same street of Geneva, having ad-
vanced but a· few steps from where he last remembered himself
to be. Professor V., himself a mental specialist, took a grave
view of a condition in which such a mental lapse, or hallucina-
tion (as he thought it), was possible, so he gave up practice, and
prescribed himself two years' complete rest. If the matter
had ended there, it would not be worth recording, but what
makes it a most extraordinary phenomenon is that some time
after his return to work, the man from the train walked into
the Professor's consulting room 1 There was instantaneous
mutual recognition and the man reminded the Professor of
their journey, and of the conversation they had had together 1
To me there seems no other explanation of such a case but that
of a condition freed from the boundaries of space-time.
The next case of the kind I heard from the lips of Dr. E. of
Munich himself. :tie was lecturing at Munich and returned by
train to his home in the country on a certain winter's night,
the train duly arriving at the station at its appointed time,
namely, ten o'clock. The station was an hour's walk from his
house, and as he wearily set out to walk through night and
202 THE WORLD BREATH
snow, he looked at his watch, which made it five past ten.
Suddenly he was at home, his wife asking in surprise how he had
managed to get back so soon; and, looking at the clock, he saw
it was still only ten-past ten! He naturally doubted his eyes
and the timepiece; and being of a methodical temperament,
not given to spiritualism or hysteria, he set about investigating
the phenomenon, but seek as he might, he could not alter the
fact nor explain it.
These two experiences point to a condition which I should
like to call: horizontal time, that is: practically simultaneous
time in two places experienced by one individual, though in the
case of Professor V. there is a complete temporal mix up, for he
not alone lived in two places at once, but in one place he lived
several hours, whilst in the other only a few minutes went by.
If such annihilation of space as well as disjointing of time can
occur at all, it follows that it must be possible, at least, to
acquire the science of making it occur at will, although to us,
who do not possess this science, incidents such as the above
seem hardly credible ! But to any Indian there would be
nothing strange in these stories ;-my father was present at
Viceregal Lodge when, as an experiment, a telegram was sent
to Bombay, of which the contents were shown to an Indian
fakir-this man brought the correct reply three hours before it
arrived· by wire. This is probably thought transference acting
by the same means as was the body transference in the other
two cases, all occur on a plane of which we at present know
nothing beyond accidental phenomena.
The next question is : Are there examples in ordinary experi-
ence which could lead us to believe that the mind can project
itself into a perpendicular gradient as well as stretch over a
horizontal one ? Can it at will descend into the future as well as
ascend into the past ? I do not think that anyone will deny
to-day that there are cases of people who under certain circum-
stances can project their minds into the future. I will not
speak of the prophets and soothsayers of ancient times who
were the recognised inspirers of kings, but most of us have, at
some time or other, met true clairvoyants-even when we have
not ourselves at times foretold some coming event-and to-day
there is no denying the fact that to certain people at certain
times the future is as clear as the past, their minds are not
limited to the here-now point. To take an example which I
can personally vouch for the truth of : A friend of mine
was sitting by the bedside of his sick father, an ordinary country
gentleman, not given to clairvoyance or any other spiritualistic
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 203
activities-! doubt if he had ever even heard of such things.
Suddenly the sick man roused himself, and told his son of a
vision he had had of a procession in which he had taken part.
He gave the minutest details of all that occurred on the way,
down to the builders who came out of a house they were
constructing in a certain street and laughed, and to the dog that
ran alongside. A week later the father died, and at his own
funeral everything occurred exactly as he had himself foretold.
I am sure Professor Jung could give many examples of similar
occurrences in relation to dreams, but to my mind, what
makes this particular case an extraordinary one is that here
the mind clearly outstripped the conditions of life, to which it
was mechanically bound, and was not limited by the death of
the body.
As for proofs of the present existence of the past, I will only
remind my readers of the now famous experience of the two
English ladies in the gardens of Versailles, who were witnesses
of a scene that had occurred over a hundred years before, in
which the central protagonist was Marie Antoinette. It was
afterwards proved that this scene had never been reported in
any history book, although it was completely verifiable,
even to the clothes worn by the Queen ! This is by no means an
uncommon experience, however, although I cannot pretend that
we are any nearer to an explanation of it than were our ances-
tors. I only know of one adequate explanation of the present
appearance of past occurrences, namely, that we are able,
in certain circumstances, to climb through the various Time
'' fields '' suggested by Dunne !
All these facts are undoubtedly connected with one of the
greatest enigmas that confront mankind: is the future really as
much in existence as is the past? As much so, for instance, as is
the last chapter of a book, whilst I am reading the first, and vice
versa. In view of the fact that science to-day admits that our
ordinary time measure is an illusion, this seems to me a perfectly
reasonable proposition. And if this be so, then it is easy to carry
the suggestion one step further, and assume that the mind
is capable of entering a condition that contains both the" abso-
lute elsewhere" and the "absolute future and past," in an
all-embracing here-now state as a book contains them, and is
even able to experience cause and effect in one flash as happens
in dreams. There is no doubt that the greater the mind the
wider will be its scope : centuries might be synthesised by
one, whilst a few hours are the limit of another's vision.
But, if mind be thus able to outrun time and space, and
204 THE WORLD BREATH
make actions and reactions melt into one, it should.be able to
detach itself from temporal conditions altogether. Undoubtedly
it is on its way to this, for modern psychology has proved that
some parts of the mind contain no past but an ever present. To
quote Dr. William Brown: ''Memories are not merely boxed
up in cells. There is the central nervous system which is our
conscious reaction, activity and cognition. But outside this,
is the fringe of nervous filaments which are also in activity, but
subconsciously. They have energies which probably act upon
and modify us in some way of which we are unaware. Our lives
go along carrying with them the sum of our experience, but
underneath is a line which carries the actual experience,
somewhat like this: and it is possible
by hypnosis to delve down into the subconscious of the indi-
vidual and reach not only the memory of a past experience, but
the thing in itself with all its attendant emotions, which proves
that it is not an image of the past, but a still living thing."1 Not
alone in hypnosis can the past be retrieved in this way, however,
for all those who have recovered from drowning, for instance,
testify to having re-lived their whole past lives within the space
of the few seconds before losing consciousness. '' I am yester-
day, I know to-day," is an oft-recurrent phrase in Egyptian
hieroglyphs, and is, it seems to me, a perfect expression of the
human subconscious mind ! Those who wrote those words knew
something which is true for all time, and what we are learning
of the secrets of the mind to-day is clearly only a lesson re-learnt.
There can be no doubt that in some part of the mind the past is
ever present, and there is a large consensus of opinion which
holds the same of the future ; apparently it holds the whole of
one life experience as a cup may contain wine and water, and
eternally has jam to-day, never yesterday or to-morrow.
''Then, everything in the intellectual is in actualisation and so
all There is Actuality ? Why not ? If that Nature is rightly
said to be ' Sleepless,' and to be Life and the noblest mode of
Life ... all then is actualisation there, everything is an·Actuality,
for everything is a Life, and all Place there is the Place of Life,
in the true sense the ground and spring of Soul and of the
Intellectual Principle." 2
On the strength of these facts we are forced at last to face
the question which is most vital to any further development of
the race, for on the answer to it depends our acceptance of this
new conception of life: granted that by chance some men have
[ 1 Lecture at the Philosophic Society, November, 1927.
' 1 Plotinus, II, 5-3.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 205
at rpoments entered into an ultra space-time condition, and
that others have realised a road to freedom, or enlightenment-
as did Jesus or the Buddha-can it be proved that the goal has
ever actually been achieved? For all reply, I can only turn
to the few great mystics who have, in various lands, at various
times, recounted their experiences in conditions freed from space
and time. So far, their accounts have never been regarded as
having any but an ethical bearing on human development, but
I believe the time has now come when it becomes imperative
that we should revise our attitude with regard to these men,
and I am not alone in this idea, as the last chapters of the Nature
ofthe Physical World and the works of C. G. Jung clearly prove! ·
If, however, we would learn something of real value from
those whom we call " saints," we shall have to begin by making
an effort to understand the nature of their experiences in a very
different spirit from that in which we have approached them
hitherto. Some psychotherapeuts have taken up this study,
but so far the results of their investigations have only led to
diagnoses of "hallucination," "auto-suggestion," "religious
mania" and the like; and I am obliged to admit that in a great
many cases such diagnoses are amply justified. But besides
these, the greatest and most enlightened religious and philoso-
phical geniuses have obviously known conditions of mind that
were not pathological at all, and if one carefully analyses their
records, it becomes evident that they all relate to an experience
which is one and the same through all the centuries, and which
is universally regarded by all who have known it, as supreme
enlightenment.
For information on such beyond-space-time conditions, I
therefore cannot do better than turn to some of those who have
undoubtedly experienced them in their own persons, first
amongst whom I must place the Buddha, whose every word
betrays the knowledge I seek. His goal, Nirvana, is clearly
beyond all earthly dimensions, for although he never describes
it, it is clear he does not because no terms we use can apply
to it, not because it is non-existent. Had it been this, why should
he have given his life to teaching men how to live in order to
attain it? The goal of everything seems to have been for him:
'' Knowledge as it is said, the undemonstrable, the infinite, the
all-illuminating, is that wherein neither water, nor earth, not
fire, nor air find place, that wherein greatness and small-
ness, weakness and force, beauty and ugliness, wherein name
and form cease all in all."1 That was Nirvana, supreme
1 Kavatta Sutta : Digha Nikaya.
206 THE WORLD BREATH
Liberation from all world phenomena, and I find allusions to it
on every side. One of the Buddha's most famous sermons is en-
tirely concerned with it, and seems to show that he unquestion-
ably knew the condition about which he was speaking-it is
certainly the nearest approach to a definition of a state freed
from physical life that is to be found anywhere. I therefore
venture to give a fairly complete summary of it, for it is all-
important that we should make sure that such a condition
exists before we can proceed any further.
" Gotama, where is the priest reborn who has attained to this
deliverance for his mind ? ''
"Vaccha, to say that he is reborn would not fit the case."
"Then, Gotama, he is not reborn?"
"Vaccha, to say that he is not reborn would not fit the case."
"Then, Gotama, he is both reborn and not reborn."
"Vaccha, to say that he is both reborn and not reborn would
not fit the case." ·
"Then, Gotama, he is neither reborn nor not reborn."
"Vaccha, to say that he is neither reborn nor not reborn
would not fit the case. . . .''
'' Gotama, I am at a loss what to think in this matter, and I
have become greatly confused...."
''Enough, 0 Vaccha l Be not at a loss what to think in this
matter, and be not greatly confused. Profound, 0 Vaccha, is
this doctrine; recondite, and difficult of comprehension, good,
excellent and not to be reached by mere reasoning, subtle, and
intelligible only to the wise.... What think you, Vaccha.
Suppose a fire were to burn in front of you, would you be aware
that the fire was burning in front of you? "
'' Gotama, if a fire were to bum in front of me, I should be
aware that a fife was burning in front of me...."
"But, Vaccha, if the fire in front of you were to become
extinct, would you be aware that the fire in front of you had
become extinct ? ''
"Gotama, if the fire, etc.... I should be aware that the fire in
front of me had become extinct."
" But, Vaccha, if someone were to ask you' In which direction
has the fire gone-east or west or north or south ? ' what
would you say, 0 Vaccha? ''
"The question would not fit the case, 0 Gotama. For the
fire which depended on fuel of grass and wood, when that
fuel has all gone, and it can get no other, being thus without
nutrition is said to be extinct."
"In exactly the same way, Vaccha, all form by which one
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 20·7
could predicate the existence of the saint, all that form has
been abandoned, uprooted, pulled out of the ground like a
palmyra-tree, and become non-existent and not liable to spring
up again in the future. The saint, 0 Vaccha, who has been
released from what is styled form, is deep, immeasurable,
unfathomable, like the mighty ocean. To say he is reborn
does not fit the case. To say that he is not reborn would not
fit the case. To say that he is both reborn and not reborn
would not fit the case. To say that he is neither reborn nor
not reborn would not'fit the case.
" All sensation. . . . All perception. . . . All potentialities._
... All predispositions by which one could predicate the
existence of the saint, all that sensation, etc., has been aban-
doned, uprooted, etc. etc. The saint, 0 Vachagotta, who has
been released from what is styled sensation . . . perception
.. potentialities ... consciousness is .deep, immeasurable,
unfathomable, like the mighty ocean. To say he is reborn . . .
not reborn ... both reborn and not reborn ... neither
reborn nor not reborn would not fit the .case."1
This sermon has often been used to prove their case by those
who maintain that the Buddha taught complete extinction of
everything when once Karma, the law of cause and effect,
had been overcome, and Nirvana attained; but it seems to
me quite clear that what he intended was to express a condition
in which no predicates that we know of in this life could apply :
to say he is·not reborn is as untrue as to say he is reborn, no
term fits the case. This is also very clearly brought out in
another sermon, which, considering the importance of this
matter for the whole construction I have in mind, I cannot
refrain from quoting in order to further substantiate my
case.
"Inspirations and expirations, 0 householder, are bodily
functions, therefore inspirations and expirations constitute
bodily Karma ; first occur reasoning and reflection and after-
wards articulate utterance, therefore reasoning and reflection
constitute vocal Karma (Note I) ; perception and sensation
are mental functions and occur in association with the
1 Achivacha-gotta Sermon, Majjhima Nikaya Sutta, 72.
Note I.-I think this" vocal Karma'' has the same meaning as the Greek
" Logos " in a non-divine form, and represents the intellectual principle of
which the best summary is Abelard's: "Speech is generated by the intellect
and in-turn generates Intellect." Jung says of this: "The materia}withwhich
we think is language and speech concept, a thing which has been used from time
immemorial as something external, a bridge for thought. . . • As long as we
think directly we think for others and speak to others." Psychology of the
Unconscious, p. 1·
208 THE WORLD BREATH
mind, therefore perception and sensation constitute mental
Karma."1
" And moreover, 0 priest, I have taught the gradual cessation
of Karma. Of one who has entered the first trance the voice
has ceased ; of one who has entered the second trance reasoning
and reflection have ceased; of one who has entered the third
trance joy has ceased; of one who has entered the fourth
trance the inspirations and expirations have ceased; of one
who has entered the realm of the infinity of space, the percep-
tion of form has ceased ; of one who has entered the realm of
the infinity of consciousness the perception of the realm of
infinity of space has ceased ; of one who has entered the realm
of nothingness the perception of the infinity of consciousness
has ceased ; of one who has entered the realm of neither percep-
tion nor yet non-perception, the perception of the realm of
nothingness has ceased; of one who has entered the cessation
of perception and sensation, perception and sensation have
ceased."2 "The Perfected One, 0 Maharaja, is free from this
that his essence might be counted with numerals of the corporeal
world; he is deep, immeasurable, unfathomable like the great
ocean."3
It seems clear to me from all these sayings that the Buddha
was speaking of something that he knew for a fact, and which
he could obviously only have learnt from personal experience.
He knew the way, and he had achieved the goal, and that it
was not only the cessation of conditioned or unconditioned
spatial conditions, but was equally the cessation of a temporal
one, is, I think, clearly demonstrated by the two following
sayings:
"For him who has disappeared there is no form, 0 Upasiva,"
so said Bhagavat-" that by which they say he is, exists for
him no longer, when all things (dhamma) have been cut off,
all kinds of dispute are also cut of£."4 Therefore "Give up
what is before, give up what is behind, give up what is between
when thou goest to the other shore of existence ; if thy mind is
altogether free, thou wilt not enter again into birth and decay."5
That is the gist of the Buddha's message, the goal he came to
teach to man; it is a state wherein, firstly all form is lost where-
by anyone could distinguish him, and secondly wherein there is
no past-(behind), no future-(before) no present-(between),
1 Samyutta Nikaya, XLI, 6-5. 2 Ibid., II-5.
3 Ibid., IV.
' Sutta Nipata, Sacred Books of the East, v. 1075, vol. x.
6 Dhamma-pada, Ibid., v. 348, vol. x.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 209
in whicli this time-measure, which begins at birth and ends
with decay, may altogether cease.
In other terms that "other shore" beyond the stream
mankind, is undoubtedly what Jesus called the Kingdom of
Heaven, what I have persistently called the rise of the next
wave free from the "conditioned perceptions and sensations"
which make up the points of space-time in our present life,
and I think that all I have been saying should open the way
to the conviction that this physical world has got to be left
behind. The next step can only be made through the abolition
of our ignorant illusions regarding its permanency, and a
freedom of the mind from its entanglements. It is superfluous
to try and deceive ourselves that Jesus taught something
different to what the Buddha did in this respect; as regards
morals their teaching was in all essentials the same, but they
were neither of them mere moralists, they were much more
than that. They both realised something of Eternal Truth,
the same once and for ever, and understood what mankind is,
and what it may become, being themselves already part of
that "become." They were the first swallows that presage
the spring, and that mankind is subconsciously aware of this
is shown by the way men have persevered in their attempt to
follow them through all the vicissitudes of centuries of failure.
All great teachers, all great mystics teach the same regarding
these things, for their enlightenment, in whatever l~nd or
century they may have lived, always sprang from the same
sources of wisdom. Perhaps of all descriptions of that further
state, those in the Upanishads are the most beautiful, therefore
a few extracts from them may help to elucidate this extremely
obscure problem. And let us not only read the words of these
great mystic hymns, they need much pondering over in order
to be understood. If ever we succeed in interpreting life in the
light of these ideas, we shall eventually understand something
real about the rise of the next wave on our course !
In the Katha Upanishad we find these very significant lines :
Second Valli :
v. IS." The wise one is not born nor dies.
v. 20.
v. 2!.
0
This one has not come from anywhere. has not become anyone.
Unborn. constant. eternal. primeval, this one
Is not slain when the body is slain.
I
More minute than the minute. greater than the great
Is the soul that is set in the heart of a creature here.
Sitting he proceeds afar.
Lying he goes everywhere.
210 THE WORLD BREATH
v. 22. Him who is bodiless among bodies.
Stable among the unstable.
The great all-pervading Soul (Atman)
On recognising Him, the wise man sorrows not.
To this condition the way is taught by every line ever spoken
by any Indian mystic, and indeed Jung expresses the same idea
in modern form : " This living spirit is eternally renewed and
pursues its goal in manifold and inconceivable ways throughout
the history of mankind. Measured against it, the names and
forms which men have given it mean little enough; they are
only the changing leaves and blossoms on the stem of the
eternal tree.''1 Jung would certainly also admit the efficacy
of the method advocated by all the Upanishads for entering
the condition of that "soul in the heart of the creature";
apparently there is but one way: "Verily when a knower
has restrained his mind from the external, and the breathing
spirit (prana) ha45 put to rest objects of sense, thereupon let
him continue void of-conceptions. Since the living individual
(jlva: living, in the sense that it is used in the Fragments from
Oxyrhynchus : ' Jesus, the living One ') who is named ' breath-
ing spirit ' has arisen here from what is not breathing spirit,
therefore verily let the breathing spirit restrain his breathing
spirit in what is called the fourth condition."2 And what is
that " fourth condition," which all Upanishads extol ? To
my mind there is no doubt that it is what the West has hitherto
called the" fourth dimension," that beyond the present space-
time dimension; what I regard as the next wave that must
arise after the human one has sunk to its trough, and although
to us it still remains in the realm of hypothesis, to the Indians
it seems to be something universally accepted as fact.
"The Fourth is that which is not conscious of the subjective,
nor that which is conscious of the objective, nor that which is
conscious of both, nor that which is simple consciousness, nor
that which is a mass all sentiency, nor that whichis all darlmess.
It is unseen, transcendant, unapprehensible, uninferable,
unthinkable, indescribable, the sole essence of the consciousness
of self, the negative of all illusion, the ever-peaceful, all bliss,
the One Unit-this indeed is Atman, it should be lmown."3
Atman is the divine principle in man, usually translated by
the SELF, and if we may take it that Jung's idea of the sub-
conscious is much the same thing, we apparently come very
near to an understanding of what is the goal of man-the next
1 M.M.S.• p. 282. 2 Maitri Upanishad. 6-19.
3 Mandflkyopanishad. v. 7. translated by Manilal N. Dvivedi.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 211
wave that shall arise may surely be discerned even now? I
would also like to point out that in the quotation from the
Maitri Upanishad, what is said of the breathing putting to
rest the objects of sense, is a perfect corroboration of my whole
philosophy : for the Indian Rishi, it is by the science of Prana
pr breath that the sense world is put to rest ; for me it is by
the Breath of the Creator that not alone the sense world but the
entire universe shall be put to rest.
With these descriptions in mind, we can easily interpret
,the allusions to the fourth condition wherever we meet them
in all the great religions of the world, but I will give a few further
examples from entirely different sources to illustrate my point.
In the last instance the Indian and the Chinese Taoist religions
(or philosophies) deal with nothing else. To tum to the Chinese,
there is in Chuang-Tsu's teaching a very fine description of the
conditions transcending space-time:
"Therefore it is that, viewed from the standpoint of Tao,
a beam and pillar are identical. So are ugliness and beauty,
greatness and wickedness, perverseness and strangeness.
Separation is the same as construction ; construction is the
same aS-destruction. Nothing is subject to either construction
or destruction, for these conditions are brought together in
ONE. Only the truly intelligent understand this principle of
the identity of all things. They do not view things as appre-
hended by themselves subjectively; but transfer themselves
into the position of the things viewed. And viewing them thus
they are able to comprehend them, nay to master tl].em:
and he who can master them is near."1
Further, Lao-Tsu makes it quite clear that this condition
which is to be" mastered" is a state of mental consciousness:
" Without going outside his door, one understands all under
the sky ; without looking out of his window one sees the Tao
of Heaven. The farther he goes out the less he knows. There-
fore the sages got their knowledge without travelling; gave
their right names to things without seeing them ; and accom-
plished their ends without any purpose in doing so."2
In one case the "truly intelligent," and in the other "the
sages" freed themselves from the limitations or evaluations
associated with sense life, and thus entered the One. "That
which is the bright space within the heart, in that this Man
resides, innate with mind, transcending death."3
Before l~aving these Eastern sages, I must compare with
1 Ch. II, p. 19, Giles Trans!.
3 Taitti-riya up., I-6-I.
2 Tao-teh-king, Chap. 47·
208 THE WORLD BREATH
mind, therefore perception and sensation constitute mental
Karma.''1
"And moreover, 0 priest, I have taught the gradual cessation
of Karma. Of one who has entered the first trance the voice
has ceased ; of one who has entered the second trance reasoning
and reflection have ceased; of one who has entered the third
trance joy has ceased; of one who has entered the fourth
trance the inspirations and expirations have ceased; of one
who has entered the realm of the infinity of space, the percep-
tion of form has ceased ; of one who has entered the realm of
the infinity of consciousness the perception of the realm of
infinity of space has ceased ; of one who has entered the realm
of nothingness the perception of the infinity of consciousness
has ceased ; of one who has entered the realm of neither percep-
tion nor yet non-perception, the perception of the realm of
nothingness has ceased ; of one who has entered the cessation
of perception and sensation, perception and sensation have
ceased."2 cc The Perfected One, 0 Maharaja, is free from this
that his essence might be counted with numerals of the corporeal
world; he is deep, immeasurable, unfathomable like the great
ocean.''3
It seems clear to me from all these sayings that the Buddha
was speaking of something that he knew for a fact, and which
he could obviously only have learnt from personal experience.
He knew the way, and he had achieved the goal, and that it
was not only the cessation of conditioned or unconditioned
spatial conditions, but was equally the cessation of a temporal
one, is, I think, clearly demonstrated by the two following
sayings:
"For him who has disappeared there is no form, 0 Upasiva,"
so said Bhagavat-" that by which they say he is, exists for
him no longer, when all things (dhamma) have been cut off,
all kinds of dispute are also cut of£."4 Therefore "Give up
what is before, give up what is behind, give up what is between
when thou goest to the other shore of existence ; if thy mind is
altogether free, thou wilt not enter again into birth and decay."5
That is the gist of the Buddha's message, the goal he came to·
teach to man ; it is a state wherein, firstly all form is lost where-
by anyone could distinguish him, and secondly wherein there is
no past-(behind), no future-(before) no present-(between),
1 Samyutta Nikaya, XLI, 6-5. 11 Ibid., II-5.
3 Ibid., IV.
' Sutta Nipata, Sacred Books of the East, v. 1075, vol. x.
6
Dhamma-pada, Ibid., v. 348, vol. x.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 209
in which this time-measure, which begins at birth and ends
with decay, may altogether cease.
In other terms that " other shore " beyond the stream
mankind, is undoubtedly what Jesus called the Kingdom of
Heaven, what I have persistently called the rise of the next
wave free from the "conditioned perceptions and sensations"
which make up the points of space-time in our present life,
and I think that all I have been saying should open the way
to the conviction that this physical world has got to be left
behind. The next step can only be made through the abolition
of our ignorant illusions regarding its permanency, and a
freedom of the mind from its entanglements. It is superfluous
to try and deceive ourselves that Jesus taught something
different to what the Buddha did in this respect ; as regards
morals their teaching was in all essentials the same, but they
were neither of them mere moralists, they were much more
than that. They both realised something of Eternal Truth,
the same once and for ever, and understood what mankind is,
and what it may become, being themselves already part of
that "become." They were the first swallows that presage
the spring, and that mankind is subconsciously aware of this
is shown by the way men have persevered in their attempt to
follow them through all the vicissitudes of centuries of failure.
All great teachers, all great mystics teach the same regarding
these things, for their enlightenment, in whatever land or
century they may have lived, always sprang from the same
sources of wisdom. Perhaps of all descriptions of that further
state, those in the Upanishads are the most beautiful, therefore
a few extracts from them may help to elucidate this extremely
obscure problem. And let us not only read the words of these
great mystic hymns, they need much pondering over in order
to be understood. If ever we succeed in interpreting life in the
light of these ideas, we shall eventually understand something
real about the rise of the next wave on our course!
In the Katha Upanishad we find these very significant lines:
Second Valli :
v. 18. "The wise one is not born nor dies.
This one has not come from anywhere, bas not become anyone.
Unborn. constant. eternal, primeval, this one
Is not slain when the body is slain.
v. 20. More minute than the minute, greater than the great
Is the soul that is set in the heart of a creature here.
v. 21. Sitting he proceeds afar,
Lying he goes everywhere.
0
210 THE WORLD BREATH
v. 22. Him who is bodiless among bodies,
Stable among the unstable,
The great all-pervading Soul (Atman)
On recognising Him, the wise man sorrows not.
To this condition the way is taught by every line ever spoken
by any Indian mystic, and indeed Jung expresses the same idea
in modern form : " This living spirit is eternally renewed and
pursues its goal in manifold and inconceivable ways throughout
the history of mankind. Measured against it, the names and
forms which men have given it mean little enough ; they are
only the changing leaves and blossoms on the stem of the
eternal tree."1 Jung would certainly also admit the efficacy
of the method advocated by all the Upanishads for entering
the condition of that "soul in the heart of the creature";
apparently there is but one way: "Verily when a knower
has restrained his mind from the external, and the breathing
spirit (prana) ha" put to rest objects of sense, thereupon let
him continue void of-conceptions. Since the living individual
(j!va : living, in the sense that it is used in the Fragments from
Oxyrhynchus : ' Jesus, the living One ') who is named ' breath-
ing spirit' has arisen here from what is not breathing spirit,
therefore verily let the breathing spirit restrain his breathing
spirit in what is called the fourth condition."2 And what is
that " fourth condition," which all Upanishads extol ? To
my mind there is no doubt that it is what the West has hitherto
called the" fourth dimension," that beyond the present space-
time dimension; what I regard as the next wave that must
arise after the human one has sunk to its trough, and although
to us it still remains in the realm of hypothesis, to the Indians
it seems to be something universally accepted as fact.
"The Fourth is that which is not conscious of the subjective,
nor that which is conscious of the objective, nor that which is
conscious of both, nor that which is simple consciousness, nor
that which is a mass all sentiency, nor that which is all darkness.
It is unseen, transcendant, unapprehensible, uninferable,
unthinkable, indescribable, the sole essence of the consciousness
of self, the negative of all illusion, the ever-peaceful, all bliss,
the One Unit-this indeed is Atman, it should be known."3
Atman is the divine principle in man, usually translated by
the SELF, and if we may take it that Jung's idea of the sub-
conscious is much the same thing, we apparently come very
near to an understanding of what is the goal of man-the next
1 M.M.S., p. 282. 2 Maitri Upanishad, 6-Ig.
3
Mand(l,kyopanishad, v. 7, translated by Manilal N. Dvivedi.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 2II
wave that shall arise may surely be discerned even now? I
would also like to point out that in the quotation from the
Maitri Upanishaa, what is said of the breathing putting to
rest the objects of sense, is a perfect corroboration of my whole
philosophy : for the Indian Rishi, it is by the science of Prana
or breath that the sense world is put to rest; for me it is by
the Breath of the Creator that not alone the sense world but the
entire universe shall be put to rest. .
With these descriptions in mind, we can easily interpret
,the allusions to the fourth condition wherever we meet them
in all the great religions of the world, but I will give a few further
examples from entirely different sources to illustrate my point.
In the last instance the Indian and the Chinese Taoist religions
(or philosophies) deal with nothing else. To turn to the Chinese,
there is in Chuang-Tsu's teaching a very fine description of the
conditions transcending space-time :
"Therefore it is that, viewed from the standpoint of Tao,
a beam and pillar are identical. So are ugliness and beauty,
greatness and wickedness, perverseness and strangeness.
Separation is the same as construction ; construction is the
same as destruction. Nothing is subject to either construction
or destru~tion, for these conditions are brought together in
ONE. Only the truly intelligent understand this principle of
the identity of all things. They do not view things as appre-
hended by themselves subjectively; but transfer themselves
into the position of the things viewed. And viewing them thus
they are able to comprehend them, nay to master tl).em:
and he who can master them is near."1
Further, Lao-Tsu makes it quite clear that this condition
which is to be " mastered " is a state of mental consciousness :
" Without going outside his door, one understands all under
the sky ; without looking out of his window one sees the Tao
of Heaven. The farther he goes out the less he knows. There-
fore the sages got their knowledge without travelling; gave
their right names to things without seeing them; and accom-
plished their ends without any purpose in doing so."2
In one case the "truly intelligent," and in the other "the
sages" freed themselves from the limitations or evaluations
associated with sense life, and thus entered the One. " That
which is the bright space within the heart, in that this Man
resides, innate with mind, transcending death."3
Before l~aving these Eastern sages, I must compare with
1 Ch. II, p. 19, Giles Trans!.
3 Taitti~iya up., I-6-I.
2
Tao-teh-king, Chap. 47·
2I2 THE WORLD BREATH·
Lao Tsu's description of the higher state attainable by man to
the words Krishna uses to Arjuna, the hero of the Bhagavad
Gita, for they are curiously identical. " Whether one would
set out to the bloom of the East, or come to the Chambers of
the West, without moving, 0 Holder of the Bow, is the travel-
ling on that road (timeless !). On this path to whatever place
one would go the same one's own self becomes. How shall
I easily describe this? Thou thyself shalt experience it."1
The fact that two completely different races and religions
bear witness in almost identical language to the reality of this
unlimited condition, must, it seems to me, carry conviction as
to the possibility of man's attaining such a state. But know-
ledge of it is not only confined to the East, as it may seem, for
Plotinus, to whom the West may lay claim, I think, is one of
its most ,famous advocates. This idea runs like a thread
through his' whole system of thought, of which the following
extract is but one example taken from amongst many. " In
order then to know what the Divine mind is we must observe
Soul and especially in its most God-like phase. . . .2 Its
knowing is not by search but by possession, its blessedness
inherent, not acquired.... Soul deals with thing after thing
-now Socrates; now a horse; always some one entity from
among beings-but the Intellectual Principle is all and therefore
its entire content is simultaneously present in that identity :
this is pure being in eternal actuality ; nowhere is there any
future, for every then is now; nor is there any past, for nothing
there has ever ceased to be ; everything has taken its stand for
ever.... All that one sees as a spectacle is still external;
one must bring the vision within and see no longer in that mode
of separation but as we know ourselves."3 This is the same as
was said by Chuang-Tsu, only the other way round; actually
there is no difference between transforming ourselves into the
position of the thing viewed, and knowing it as we know our-
selves! And when that is accomplished both would agree that
we shall enter a condition where : '' Time is replaced by
eternity and space by its intellectual equivalent: Mutual in-
clusiveness."4 This man also spoke from experience.
I think I have now said enough to prove the existence on
earth of men who knew a condition transcending space-time,
but probably many of my readers have been thinking: this is
all very well, but Jesus Christ, who is the greatest teacher of
1 Dnyaneshvari Adhyaya, 6, quoted in the Dream of Ravan, p. 189, first
appeared in Dublin University Magazine, 1853.
2 Atman. 3 Ennead, V, 3-9, 1-4, 8-10. 4 Ibid., V, g-zo.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 213
all in Western eyes, says nothing of all this. But they are
mistaken, for although Jesus did not teach a definite system
for reaching enlightenment, or what He calls the " Kingdom
of Heaven," yet if we consider all He said regarding that King-
dom, it is in no way different to what allthe others have reported
of that greater Life. Does He not say it is "small as a grain
of mustard seed," which is the same as what the Indian called
"more minute than the minute," and does it not equally
become a tree of which He would certainly have agreed that
it was "greater than the great." Does He not say that it is
" within " ? Where but in the rr bright space within the
heart " ? I do not think that the condition of anyone who had
followed his words implicitly would be different to that
experienced by every great mystic of whatever creed or time.
There can be no doubt that Jesus' whole teaching aimed at
making man abandon exterior values and activities and turn
inward upon himself-man's own soulwas all that counted in his
esteem, and any thought given to this life and its preservation
was in His eyes a turning away from God, a choosing the lesser
way. "He that :findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth
his life for my sake shall find it." And the way to "loosing"
this life for His sake is the way of His entire teaching: if we
consistently follow it we shall be born again, not of the flesh
by "re-entering the mother's womb," but of the spirit; we
shall thus enter something outside the conditions of the flesh
whilst still inhabiting it. Those who are thus born again shall
"not see death"; the Buddha would have said of them that
they were beyond birth and decay, beyond the conditions
inherent in time and space. Patanjali, who gave the world
the greatest of all systems of mental enlightenment, said of that
beyond-world condition which was his goal : " When this
condition of consciousness is reached, which is far-reaching
and not confined to the body, which is outside the body and
not conditioned by it, then the veil which conceals the light is
worn away."l Jesus said of it : rc The wind bloweth where it
listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell
whence it cometh and whither it goeth ; so is everyone that is
born of the Spirit,"2 which reminds one of Buddha's simile
of the fire that is extinct !
But the way is not easy-have we not all heard of the
"straight and narrow path "-although it is not the path of
moral virtue as the theologian would have us believe, but some-
thing far more intricate than that ! It is the path to the inner
1 Yoga Sutras, Bk. III, v. 43· 1 John iii, 8.
214 THE WORLD BREATH
man, free of all earthly desires or possessions, free of greed, hate
and ignorance, free even ofthe hope ofeternallife, only '' he who
knows himself shall find it,"1 and the call to seek "within"
is one which every great teacher of every world religion has
reiterated untiringly. And to-day at last there exists a science
which is founded on their dictum, and on that is building a
new world, namely, the new psychology. Jung speaks with
the same tongue as all the greatest saints when he speaks of
the " unconscious " : " If it were permissible to personify
the unconscious, we might call it a collective human being
combining the characteristics of both sexes, transcending youth
and age, birth and death, and having at its command a human
experience of one or two million years, almost immortal. If
such a being existed, he would be exalted above all temporal
change ; the present year would mean neither more nor less to
him than any year in the one hundredth century before Christ ;
he would be a dreamer of age-old dreams and, owing to his
immeasurable experience, he would be an incomparable
prognosticator. He would have lived countless times over the
life of the individual, of the family, tribe and people, and he
would possess the living sense of the rhythm of growth, flower-
ing and decay,"2 he would have arrived at the rise of the
next wave! Were we able to identify ourselves with this
unconscious we should attain all that has been said above, and
using the body only as an instrument, we must become as
gods.
That only so few have succeeded in achieving this enlighten-
ment so far does not imply that it is hopeless for the rest of
mankind to attempt such a thing. Those who achieved it in
the past were perhaps more gifted than most, but a great many
have drawn upon this inner power in other ways than the
religious one. Unconscious though they may have been of the
source of their power, I do not think that anyone would deny
that the authors of the Divina Commedia, of the St. Matthew
Passion, of Hamlet, of the Missa Solemnis, of Endymion, of
Faust, were all inspired by an inner force or enlightenment
that lifted them in their creation as much above the limitations
of the body as is the mystic in his condition of ecstasy. My
reader may object that these are equally far from himself,
and their achievements as much outside his capacities, as are
those of any religious prophets, and I certainly cannot pretend
that anyone who wished it could produce the Divina Commedia
1 Fragments from Oxyrhynchus.
2 Modern Man in Search of a Soul, p. 215.
HERE, THERE AND EVERYWHERE 215
to-morrow. But I amconvincedthatif we once realise that there
is this life within, and cultivate our capacities for releasing it by
clearing the channels for its manifestations, we shall as man-
kind reach a state where all the physical conditions will have
become subservient to the " Spirit "-which will be but one
step from the final complete emergence in the kingdom of the
mind.
I have given more time and space to this subject than is
perhaps permissible in a general attempt at world synthesis,
but I desired to place it in such a light that there could be no
hesitation in accepting it as a basis for future development,-
that seems to me very important ! Once we are convinced that
the most perfect men in all the ages were able to attain a state
transcending the conditions that bind ordinary humanity,
we must also realise that we must eventually all follow their
example, for they are undoubtedly the forerunners, the first
bubbles rising to the surface-but eventually the whole pot
must attain boiling-point.
As shown above, any Western achievements in the direction
of transcending the limitations of space-time have been purely
arbitrary, but the mere fact of their occurrence, taken in
conjunction with the statements of the mystics and scientists,
is proof that we possess the key to a higher and more evolved
condition in our own hands, not merely a philosophical
hypothesis, a religious dogma or a scientific formula. There-
fore, once this fact is established in our minds, it follows
that instead of clinging to this physical existence as mankind
has always done hitherto, which only delays the process, we
should in future strain every nerve to pierce through this
space-time framework, and give rise to the next wave. We
now know that one period leads to another by reason of in
inexorable law, and we shall have made a vast stride forward
when once we perceive the right way of contributing to this
end, and set ourselves to assist nature instead of thwarting
her, or passively allowing ourselves to drift with the tide as
heretofore.
PART III
THE WAVE BEYOND MANKIND
u WHEN you have understood the destruction of all
that was made, you will understand that which was not
made.''
Dhamma-pada, Chapter XXVI, 383.
CHAPTER I
FREE MIND
I
THINK that I have now said enough to show that in
reaching the kingdom of the mind we have entered upon
a new beginning, something of which we only know the
first halting stages at present, but which is shown to be capable
of untold future developments. In the mind we have for the
first time, in cosmic evolution, discovered something which
looks very like a free agent. If the mind is capable of creating
its own interpretation of what is brought to it, it· is clearly
not bound to any formulre presented to it by the physical
world, and we discover here the seat of a liberty never dreamt
of before.
But liberty did not begin with man, it began with life itself,
and its growth seems proportionate to the development of brain
power throughout the living world-in fact the main difference
between the animate and inanimate worlds seems to lie in the
freedom of action of the one as against the purely mechanical re-
actions of the other. The one aim and object of everything gifted
with life seems to be the attainment of freedom from bondage to
earth, and the most evident progress of the animal over the
vegetable kingdom is its power of locomotion. Beginning with
the Euglena, for instance, half plant half animal, and ending
with this curious being possessed of a free mind, there is
throughout the story of living things a continuous and per-
fectly distinct evolution towards liberty, first a physicallibe~y
and then a mental one. At this point in evolution, the quality
of liberty seems to be the mark that distinguishes each stage
from the next : freedom of action from plant to animal, freedom
of mind in man as against the animal's instinctive behaviour.
Seeing therefore that any step taken by life in its evolution
has, thus far, been in the direction of ever greater liberty from
material bonds, I think if we are ever to attain any further
developments from mankind into the next rise of a wave, it is
undoubtedly by way of a greater freedom still that it is to be
anticipated. And any attempt to work for this development
219
220 THE WORLD BREATH
must start by a realisation of inner freedom, as all saints have
taught. But a state of perfect freedom is perhaps the most
difficult thing in the world to realise, as difficult to realise as
Truth! In so far as our material life is concerned, perfect
freedom cannot exist: we may have no one dependent on us,
but even so we are dependent on others in order to remain alive,
to say the least of it. We may take ship and travel the world
over, if we are rich enough, so as to have neither ties nor
possessions, we may never allow ourselves any bonds of friend-
ship, we may never stick to any rules : but we are still bound :
to our money, to those who sail our ship, to those who produce
our food or make our clothes, even to the necessity of inter-
course ! If we succeed in becoming completely selfish we are less
free than ever, because getting our own way and making
ourselves comfortable inevitably becomes an obsession, and
everything that cuts across it, creates a wave of discontent in
our minds and an increased attachment to the things that
satisfy our desires, be it our passions, our possessions or even
only the freedom to do as we like. Every self-indulgence creates
a double tie: that of attachment and that of fear of being
robbed of it. And as we thus pander to our material selves, the
material world of which they form part clogs our feet ever more
firmly to the ground.
There is one thing, however, that is capable of breaking this
chain, namely, the conscious mind. As was amply proved above,
this is the freest element yet produced in the universe, and
therefore if we wish to liberate ourselves from physical bondage
we must do so by means of the free within, and I have not the·
slightest hesitation in urging that this be our aim. Considering
how organic life has been steadily marching toward realisation
of an ever greater freedom, since its first beginnings, and at the
same time towards an ever more predominant mind power, we
cannot doubt that these two walk hand in hand, and will do so
until mind has burst the last bonds that hold it captive. It
might be urged that mankind has no desire to burst such bonds ;
that is immaterial, however, for the waves rush forward onto the
beach at the flow of the tide, and each wave advances just a
little way beyond the term of the last, it cannot help itself,
and ~ventually all find themselves high on the beach of time,
just where they were required to be. If the next wave to rise
in the tide of approach to the Supreme One, be a wave com-
pletely freed from material conditions, it must be part of the
law of our existence that we should attain that point, and al-
though we may perhaps delay its coming, we cannot hope to
FREE MIND 22I
escape it. Whether we be conscious of it or not, our lives, our
civilisation, all contribute to that end, and this earth has,
through countless evolutions, at last contrived to produce a
being that is, in the first place, capable of conscious perceptions,
formed by something irrespective of will in coalition with the
body; and in the second place, is so far freed from material
limitations that it can project its thoughts out into the depths
of space and down into the minutire of the sub-world. A being
that may build up his own destiny step by step, owing to his
capacity of regarding himself as a free agent. Were he ever to
become capable of tracing his own chain of causality and of
moulding its effects, in full consciousness of the results of his
actions both on the present and the future of the world, his first
aim must be to free himself of causality altogether. This will
only be fully achieved, however, when the mind has completely
freed itself from bodily conditions.
That such freedom of mind or will has ever been the secret
ambition of mankind is proved by the continuous controversy
that has raged round this question since the very beginning of
human thought, no denials in the world have ever killed man's
innate conviction that he must possess it. Instead of denying
its existence, however, suppose we regard its eventual fulfilment
as the goal of our present civilisation? Even though it is
questionable whether we possess it at present, in accepting it as
a fact, we may thereby build it up into a reality in the future.
Evolution admittedly proceeds by the adaptation of the fittest
to the surrounding conditions, so freedom of mind, or even the
illusion of it, would not have arisen had not our conditions
required it, but once born, this semi-freedom of ours must
eventually grow into the great tree of absolute liberty-nature
never leaves anything half done!
We saw above that the bodily functions are organised to feed
the brain, from which seat the mind assumedlyrules the activi-
ties of the body. The action and reaction of life upon this mind
are what make it grow and develop; both the history of indi-
viduals and civilisations are the history of mind growth.
" Mind emerges from brain activity to higher and higher unity ;
the extent to which unity is achieved constitutes the per-
manence of the mind. It may obtain sufficient activity to
survive the death of the body."1 I feel sure that this must
eventually occur, but that day is yet far off, our minds will need
much training first 1 Up to a short time ago the mind, except
in the case of Indian Yogis, was left to develop itself haphazard,
1 William Brown: Lecture Philos. Society, Autumn, 1927.
222 THE WORLD BREATH
it was merely the instrument for the civilisation of mankind,
but it was never considered with any view to a development
of its power as such.· But let us now suppose that the mind
is something like the music inherent in a violin : if this
be played with love and understanding, it is capable of
giving forth strains that will delight a whole world. If,
however, that same violin be left to lie in a glass case in a
museum, it is as if it had never been born. Likewise, by not
employing our minds to help us on our way, we merely waste our
lives. Why not recognise this fact, and whether we believe in
any goal or not, at least do the best we can to assist our minds
in attaining freedom in a wider consciousness-there can be no
doubt that this at least is a goal worth striving after.
But, of course, this cannot be done in a night, nothing can
ever be accomplished except by perseverance and courage, even
in this world, how much more in an attempt to attain a new
condition altogether ? '' Let not him who seeks ... cease until
he finds, and when he finds he shall be astonished; astonished
he shall reach the Kingdom, and having reached the Kingdom
he shall rest."1 When we shall have developed our powersto the
utmost at this stage of our evolution, we may then with con-
fidence project our wave on its further way ; eventually even
the universe " shall rest."
Not knowing our part in this universe, nor where it was
leading, it was heretofore impossible to use our instrument to
best advantage, but once we become aware of the Way the
universe is treading, we shall doubtless learn the art of making
our lives conform to it. In the past there seem to have existed
some few who understood the meaning of mankind, and who
were so far freed from the bondage of this life that they were
·able to " take it up or lay it down " ; they knew the term of
their individual life wave. Jesus, for instance, would not go
up to Jefusalem until His time was ripe : "For my hour-is not
yet come " ; Rudolf Steiner and Ramakrishna, to mention
two established cases of this in modem times, both knew the day
and hour of their death as well as Jesus, although they were not
so far advanced as to choose it. If man can, in certain cases,
foresee the term of his individual life, he must eventually
become capable of controlling it, and we see here the rudiments
of the greater faculty of controlling the wave of the life of
mankind, and setting the duration of its period in the vaster
realm of periodicity.
I do not assert that you or I may do this without further ado,
1 Fragments from Oxyrhynchus.
FREE MIND 223
so far the end of man or of mankind is a completely arbitrary
arrangement as far as we are concerned ; we are still in the
condition of the man who proposed to pull down his barns and
build greater, on the very day that his soul was required of him.
We are not even perfectly sure that we possess the freedom of
will to determine our ordinary activities, how much less ques-
tions of life and death! Therefore before building up any.
theory that depends for its realisation on our freedom. to choose
our own way, it might be as well to make certain what reasons
we may have for assuming that we have any choice in the matter
at all.
Many in the history of human thought have spoken of our
being free, or becoming so, some few have given reasons for
belief in the freedom of will, or in " determination," but I think
no man in modern times has ever succeeded in giving a more
completely satisfactory solution to this riddle than has one
of the greatest prophets of our new religion: Max Planck-
and it is natural it should be so, for it is only the trained
scientific mind that can be expected to take an objective view
of the case, and sift out the facts from the theories ! In his book
Where is Science Going? which is a refutation of those who
maintain that his Quantum theory has definitely proved that
indeterminacy is inherent in all physical phenomena, Planck
shows, on the contrary, that there is nothing known in the whole
world that is not subject to the law of causality. This, not in
the sense that the acorn is the cause of the oak, but in the sense
in which day succeeds night. And when finally he comes to the-
great problem of man and free will, which is the keystone of
the entire arch of causality, he uses words which seem to me
conclusive, as Jar as they go, just as the Law of Entropy was in
its way.
According to Planck, all conduct is not only the result of
the motives that inspired it, but equally, has a" causal influence
on subsequent behaviour,"1 even up to the highest and most
evolved geniuses, and to the great spiritual movements., the
deeper the psychologist probes, the more clearly does the causal
relationship emerge. Is there then no free will or responsible
action? ''In a world where the principle of causation prevails
universally, what room is there for the autonomy of human
volition ? " Planck asks. " The fact is there is a point, one
single point in the immeasurable world of mind and matter,
where science and therefore every causal method of research
is inapplicable, not only on practical grounds, but also on
1 W.S.G.
THE WORLD BREATH
logical grounds, and will always (?) remain inapplicable. This
point is the individual ego.... Over this realm no outer power
of fate can ever have sway, and we lay aside our own control
and responsibility over ourselves, only with the laying aside of
life itself."1 I think we can unhesitatingly accept this to mean
that although our external lives are governed by causality,
our subconscious motives act freely. If we consider how a
trained psychologist treats his patients to-day, we must realise
that he applies the law of causality systematically. Does
he not cross-examine his patient until he has led him up
to the root cause of his mental derangement, some experience
lying buried in his subconscious mind,-which that mind had
employed entirely arbitrarily however?
But let us imagine a far higher intelligence than any we
know of so far, would he not, on the same line of deduction
as our trained psychologist, be capable of tracing cause
and effect throughout every human life ? And further, would
he not also be capable of anticipating future activities
from the data he has obtained of the past? (Although I have
not Planck's authority for this last conjecture, I believe this
has already been done by certainhigh Lamas of Tibet.) Planck
does indeed ad.m.it that there is no reason why every indi-
vidual should not make himself the observer of what has
happened within himself. There is no reason, at least in
principle, why he should. not scrutinise each experience and
study it from the viewpoint of finding out the cause from which
it resulted. "But, in order to carry out this plan of action, the
facts of our own lives which we now place under observation
would have to be distanced in the past so that our present com-
plex of living emotions and inclinations would not enter as
factors into the observation."2 Therefore, the nearer we
got to the present personal experience, the more difficult
would it be to judge our own actions with the impartiality and
objectivity necessary to any attempt to realise causality. ''In
principlethereisnoreason why weshould not discover the causal
connections of our own personal conduct, but in practice we
never can do so, because this would mean that the observing
subject would also be the object of research. And that is
. impossible ; for no eye can see itself." Does not this inability
to trace our individual causal connections then result in our
lives being conducted as if we had free wills? That seems
to be Planck's conclusion: "The fact that the individual
here and now, in regard to his own living present act, can-
1 W.S.G., pp. 162 ff. I Ibid, pp. 162 ff.
FREE MIND 225
not be subject to the law of causation is a truth that is
based on a perfectly sound logical foundation of an a priori
kind, such as that the part is never greater than the whole."
Even though some super intelligence might be able to trace
the causal structure throughout the activities of mankind
yet "it would have to renounce the idea of studying
the activities of its own ego at the moment it contemplated
the activities of our mortal ego.... We cannot possibly study
ourselves at the moment or within the environment of any given
activity."1 This is, it seems to me, an exact parallel of what
happens in our observation of the electron, which has given
rise to the idea of indeterminacy : so long as we study atomic
activity en masse we can give an exact description of the move-
ments of electrons, but directly we come down to pinning the
electron to a certain spot, it becomes a wave and the corpuscle
disappears. Likewise the chain of causality disappears directly
we attempt to rivet it onto ourselves. In both cases there seems
to me to be a dual phenomenon: as waves are free, so are we
free in relation to our immediate destinies although, taken
en masse, our lives take their place in the chain of causation or
periodicity.
This comparison with the electron may lead us to a further
hypothesis: as the freedom of the electron in its nature of
wave, was responsible for the first atomic concentrations which
eventually produced life, such a thing could hardly have been
possible had the electron been a fixed corpuscle, so our imme-
diate freedom of action may be the source of the next stage of
cosmic evolution, the womb out of which the next wave shall
arise. The freedom of action which is at present a semblance
born of eyes incapable of seeing themselves, may be the first
ray of a new condition of which it will be the fundamental
attribute.
This fact, combined with the law of causality, which gives us
the security -that this present condition is necessarily a
passage that leads to a further stage, should give us courage
to use our freedom to guide the causality. Periodicity as we
have studied it so far, has given us every proof that one period
follows another: we have seen that life and then mind have
developed and grown, together with a steady increase in free-
dom of activity and thought, and this should teach us that we
can and must use our life waves to make our way outwards to
complete Liberty from the control of physical conditions, which
is clearly where the racial chain of causality is leading. Any
1. Ibid., p. 164.
p
226 THE WORLD BREATH
achievements in this direction in the past have merely been
the mechanical outcome of cause and effect ; but henceforth,
let us set out on the path to freedom in full consciousness· of
the goal and with increasing understanding of the way thereto ;
the fact that it is the most difficult of any task mankind has
ever had to face, cannot and must not deter us, for sooner or
later it will have to be faced, and it is better we should do so
of our own free choice.
This very difficulty of our task is proof enough that this is
our way, for even in this world nothing that is of any real value
has ever been obtained except by suffering and sacrifice-
even a child cannot be born except at the risk of the mother's
life-how much more must this be true of the birth of a new
world? But so far the problem has never been faced as a
whole, we have never considered the Way of all mankind, our
judgments have always been based on the individual, or at
most, the national Way ; but once we recognise that we are
one Wave in the great flow of the breath re-entering the Primal
One, nations and individuals must begin to regard life from a
completely different angle. The goal is one and the same for all
the nations of the earth, therefore in this, at least, allmight find
common cause for unity.
If one and all could realise that matter must be overcome,
and join together in the task of dematerialisation, then must
the moment arrive at last, when everything will take on the
nature of the ingoing breath, which will then dominate the
whole universe, and we men shall enter a state more subtle,
more refined, constructing instead of dissipating our elements.
Admitting that this present universe must come to an end,
some scientists have suggested that the newly discovered,
highly penetrating cosmic rays, might build up new worlds
in the depths of space. But if this were true, we should be
faced with the deadlock of eternal recurrence, which seems to
me a contradiction of everything we have learnt of the universal
conditions heretofore, for never and in no place is complete
recurrence to be found! Also they forget that biologists and
psychologists agree that 1~ is b~ing l_!Q, whilst m~r
dissipates; they admittedly work in an inverse sense, and
therefore, if one would seek that which builds up in the universe,
it is obvious that it should be sought for there, where the first
definite signs of such a constructive process are at work. So
much for facts.
Further, in considering this great Breath of God, we must
realise that when the last faint whiff of the exhaling breath
FREE MIND 227
has evaporated, that which will then be drawn in will no more
be limited to what was there already, but will be selectedfrom
amongst unlimited free possibilities. Free as air-is and must be
·that which goes back into the being of the One ; more insub-
stantial than energy itself is the spirit Phrenix that must arise
and eventually enter into the All-unity of the Breather. Of such
nature the first traces exist in mind alone of all the things we
know of; even now at its outset, semi-free from the bonds of
materialism, it is the greatest birth that has taken place in
the universe. And it is necessary to add that what we know
of it in the human being to-day is not its final condition ;
there is not the slightest doubt that in it lie infinite capacities
for future development; once we begin to realise this fact,
that future comes appreciably nearer. Even the little we
know now, shows that in man a wave has arisen of an
entirely new nature, something which all the progress in
knowledge of the physical world, made in this last century,
has not yet explained, something of which we see the results,
but whose mainsprings are as mysterious as ever they were.
'' There is a you which is hidden from the world, not ruled by:'
three dimensions. Personality or mind-stuff is not measurable;
by ordinary processes. You attempt to think your thoughts,!
you only think of the changes in them. You contemplate\
your body, it cannot contemplate itself. Events come up!
out of the darkness into the light of consciousness and disappear
back into darkness again,"1 a darkness as yet unexplorable
and likely to remain so until that day when the mind shall
contemplate its SELF. And if mind be in very truth the first
rise in a new wave of an unknown species, a new departure in
the universe, we shall evidently not be in a position to measure
its nature until that new condition has emerged from its
swaddling clothes of matter into the full light of day. Whether
we shall then be in a condition to measure is another matter-
all measures may then be seen to be superfluous!
Of that new period in wave progress, there have undoubtedly
existed some few examples on this earth, and if we would
attempt to glean some information regarding it, we can
certainly only hope to obtain it from those whohave experienced
it. From all that was said of the great religious teachers in the
last chapter, there can be no doubt that they did know of a
condition not commonly understood by the rest of mankind,
and which was most certainly a condition some steps beyond
that in which we find ourselves at present. Such men were
1 Lecture by Dr. William Brown. Philos. Society, 5, IX, 27.
228 THE WORLD BREATH
freer from attachment to the physical world and therefore
nearer to real freedom than any other men have been, and if
we would understand something of our possibilities of mental
freedom from matter, it is clear that those who have known
the fullest liberty in that sense are they who would be most
capable of enlightening us on the subject.
Perhaps, though, I should offer a word of explanation of my
personal conception of what constitutes freedom before I begin
to discuss the way thereto. To me the men who possessed
the freest minds were not those who possessed the greatest
amount of learning, for I am not advocating a better under-
standing of things pertaining to the physical world, or our
relation to it; had this been the case, I should certainly
have turned to Aristotle, Newton, Kant or Einstein-or
some might suggest Julius Cresar or Napoleon-what
I seek are minds so wide that they embrace the entire
problems of the life of mankind, so free that they are not
confined to one epoch or nation, htlt can reach the soul of
the men of all times. That such have existed is shown by the
fact that the path to that state has been so persistently taught,
and he evidently knew it from personal experience, who could
say to man : " Make then thyself to grow to the same stature
as the Greatness which transcends all measure; leap forth
from every body; transcend all time; become Eternity....
Conceiving nothing is impossible to thyself, think thyself
deathless and able to know all-all arts, all sciences, the way
of every life. Become more lofty than all height, and lower
than all depth. Collect unto thyself all senses of all creatures-
of fire and water, dry and moist. Think that thou art at the
same time in every place-in earth, in sea, in sky ; not yet
begotten in the womb, young, old and dead, in after-death
conditions. And if thou knowest all these things at once-
times, places, doings, qualities and quantities; thou canst
lmow God."1 Any man who knows that condition must
realise a freedom so perfect that it stands out as a beacon to
mankind throughout the centuries. A mind that has that
vision must attain the highest peaks of human experience.
I have no space here to draw a picture of all those who have
trodden this path, suffice it to give two examples that seem to
me to fulfil all the required conditions, namely, the Buddha
and Jesus Christ. I should perhaps add Mahomet, since he,
with the Buddha and Jesus, has been the greatest power for
good in the evolution of the human race, and divides with them
1 Mind unto Hermes, T.G.H., Vol. II.
FREE MIND 229
the spiritual leadership of mankind even to this day. But
I think that a knowledge of the lives of the first two, and of
the lesson they taught, which shows a uniformity of purpose
only explainable by the identity of the Truth that inspired
them, must convince us that Mahomet could only have drawn
the same powers from the same sources. In the last instance,
there can only be one Truth for the fully enlightened, and only
those who possessed this, could influence mankind, until" the
whole is leavened." Therefore having shown that two of the
greatest leaders the world has ever known, are in complete
harmony as to the path they teach to enlightenment, I can
leave it to my readers to discover the same in Mahomet,
Confucius, or Moses. All these men spoke truths that only
become more irrefutable as time goes on, and a true under-
standing of their teaching throws light on every problem that
confronts the human race. They obviously responded to
some essential need in man, and after two millenniums
and more, they are still fundamentally the leaders of mankind.
Millions, I might almost say billions, of men have come and
gone since their day, but no one who thinks seriously on this
matter, can yet dispute their claim to pre-eminence, and
therefore if we would seek the road to super-development and
freedom, it is undoubtedly of such that we should ask the way.
The Exalted One :
CHAPTER II
THE BUDDHA
Surely at all times happily does _rest
The Arahat in whom all fire's extinct.
Who cleaveth not to sensuous desires,
Cool all his being, rid of all germs
That bring new life, all cumbranoes cut out,
Subdued the pain and pining of the heart
Calm and serene he resteth happily,
For in his mind he hath attained to peace.
~ Samyutta Nikaya, x, 8.
T ET us examine the case of the Buddha to begin with.
.L Possessed of a philosophic as well as a religious mind,
he was able to analyse human conditions with greater
clarity and objectivity of vision than most mystics, which
renders his te~timony all the more valuable. Certainly I
think we shall find that no philosopher or scientist ever argued
their points more logically than he. To take this crucial
question of freedom : although we may admit that mankind
has developed an ever-increasing freedom from physical limita-
tions, and possesses to-day a liberty of mind and will unknown
to any other formation in the universe, (as far as we can judge
it), still there is no doubt that the reasons offered us for attempt-
ing to complete our independence from physical conditions-
which to us appear to be the only reality-are not always
completely convincing. We inevitably ask ourselves: why
should we seek to abandon something familiar and on the whole
quite comfortable, for something entirely hypothetical? Jesus
certainly did not· give many reasons for recommending people
to do so-He assumed that mankind must desire it;· He
probably understood the laws which must drive us to it
eventually, and man's unceasing quest for eternal life is but a
syniptom of this, for admittedly eternal life can never exist
in the phenomenal world composed of beginnings and endings !
Knowing this, he held out the great hope that with faith "as
a grain of mustard seed " all might attain it.
230
THE BUDDHA 23I
But the Buddha is much more communicative. In his
sermons we may find answers to any questions we may ask
.relating to the nature of this world, its true significance and the
way of eventual escape therefrom. Granting that mankind
must eventually overcome this present condition-and I
think this has been amply proved in the foregoing chapters,-
it seems to me that his reasoning is so far unanswerable. The
Buddha regards this physical life as a passing stage, ruled by
the law of cause and effect,l to which we are bound so long as
there is any desire 2 in us of any kind, or any ignorance 3 which
gives rise to desire. The accuracy of his diagnosis of the
genesis of our present condition of existence becomes
daily more apparent, as the science of psycho-pathology
delves deeper into the human mind, and his chain of causality
holds good for all time as the explanation of existence such
as we have conceived it up to the present day,-and is not
physical science beginning to enlighten every man on his
ignorance? It seems clear that the ideas we held hitherto
regarding the nature of the world as depicted by the senses
were due to ignorance as well as our notions of perman-
ence, reality of material phenomena and the rest. "The
Buddhists assign ignorance (avidya) as the starting..;point of
individual existence, that is to say the error which causes
the supposed permanence of what is merely transient.
Thence comes reflex action (samskara) which comprises
desire (kama), illusion (maya) and all that results ·therefrom,
and which in the embryonic being, still in potentiality, causes
distinctive knowledge (vijnana) to arise, first as pure possi-
bility, but whose development immediately produces, lrom
its beginning, the consciousness of the ego (ahankara). It is this
which, combining with the various elements psychic,· as well as
corporeal, provided by the parents, confers on the individual
being in process of construction its name (nama) and its form
(rupa), that is, the u essence " and the " substance , of its
individuality.'· .. From the various principles so far consid~ed
further result six faculties, which consist in the consciousness
of principia! distinctive knowledge, of the four elements in
their relations with the individuality, therefore as principles
of the sensible qualities (alambanas), and finally of name and
form together, that is, of the individuality itself ; with these
six faculties correspond, in the body, six organs which are
1 KaYma. 2 Tanka--grasping, craving, desire. 3 avidya.
4
" That which is corporeal is the form ; the intellectual and sensitive
states are the name." Milinda Panha, II, 24.
232 THE WORLD BREATH
their respective seats. The operation of these faculties .
has for its result experience (phassa, literally touch, that is by
extension, contact of the senses with their objects), by which
is produced conscious impression (vedana). This, in its turn,
engenders thirst (tanha), (the craving for individual ex-
pression), and it is this craving that provokes effort
(upadana), the initial element of all individual activity."1
From this effort is started the train of becoming (bhava) which
leads up to the birth (jati) of the individual, or the specific
nature of man, and which ends in" decay and death, sorrow,
lamentation, ill, grief and despair."2
It seems to me that if we regard this " chain of causation "
in the light of modern physical science and psychology, we
must realise at once that the world's aspect as known to us
hitherto and appreciated by our senses is entirely the fabric
of our ignorance. Had we even regarded it as the scientist
knows it to be to-day, the whole existence of mankind would
have been very different. Could we see ourselves as flowing
electrons and protons, we should never know that birth,
decay and death, to which we attach so much importance-
at the most the only consciousness would have been sell-
consciousness. And were we ever to succeed in entering the
real consciousness of our subconscious mind, we should
there also overcome much of our present ignorant condition,
and know no beginning in the past, no end in the future, but
a present that must rise to a multidimensional wave, incon-
ceivable to our present conception of BEING. It is, therefore,
undoubtedly ignorance that has kept us from realising the
true nature of the world around us, and from entering upon
the path that must lead to the next rise.
But the Buddha did not abandon us to the despair of our
ignorance and its results. At the sametime as he recognisedthe
chain of causation that led to man, he also recognised that the
same chain, inverted, must lead to the cessation of ignorance :
were illumination to take its place:, then must the entire pheno-
menal world, as we had hitherto perceived it, come to an end.
Without cause no effects could ever arise. " Verily when
things become manifest to the ardent, meditating brahman,
then all doubts fade away, since he understands things-with-
cause ... since he understands the cessation of causes."3
Having attained this understanding, the )3uddha went out
1 See Rene Guenon: Man and his Becoming, p. II2-14.
2 Mahavagga, Vinaya Texts, zst section.
3 Mahavagga, Vinaya Texts.
THE BUDDHA 233
into the world to bring enlightenment where ignorance had
reigned (and reigns), and in his first sermon he laid the founda-
tion of his whole subsequent teaching for the attainment of
this end. That first sermon furnishes the reply, which is a
classic for all time, to the objection which is uppermost in all
men's minds, when summoned to overcome this present form
of life, namely : why should we ? And the answer not only
gives the reason for following the path of emancipation, but
also shows how it is to be accomplished. The Four Noble
Truths which are at the root of the Buddha's whole doctrine
(dhamma), are truths regarding everyman's experience in this
life ; three of them are facts comprehensible to all, the practice
of the last is another matter ! The first and second truths
state the conditions of existence and their cause : birth is
suffering and leads to old age, illness, death, separation from
those we love, and the non-fulfilment of our hopes and wishes,
all of which is suffering. Furthermore, birth, which is the cause
of suffering, is composed of the "five aggregates " 1 which
spring from desire. In placing desire together with ignorance
at the root of all existence as mmexperiences it, the""KuUOha
shows himself to be one of the most profound psychologists
that have ever lived, for it must be clear to all that it is
ignorance of Life's real nature that causes the desire for it.
His first care is, therefore, to show what this desire produce_s
in order that man may know exactly what is to be overcome.
Mter showing that everything in life inevitably ends in suffer-
ing, he explains how the " five aggregates " build up the human
individuality, inherent in which are the causes of suffering
and also the means to overcome it. An understanding of the
aggregates must eventually lead to freedom from individuality
according to the Buddha, therefore let us examine them more
closely.
The first aggregate is the aggregate of forms (rupa), which
comprises the organs of sense and their objects in their relation
to individual consciousness ; the second is the aggregate of
distinctive knowledge (vijnana), identified with thought itself,
individual consciousness, or formative thought : what connects
the individual with all around him; the third is the aggregate
of conscious impressions (vedana), comprising pleasure, pain,
or their absence, and other analogous feelings, produced by
any perception or conception whatsoever, whether --external
or internal; the fourth is the aggregate of judgments (sanna),
denoting the knowledge which is generated from words and
1 Skandhas.
234 THE WORLD BREATH -
names as well as from symbols or ideographic signs (all the
knowledge we acquire), and, moreover, it implies the existence
of a true relation between the sign and the thing signified ;
the :fifth aggregate is that of predispositions (samskdra)l
which includes all the modifications of our conceptions of
existence under the impulse of affections, desires or aversion.
At first sight it may seem questionable that all these aggregates,
which are at the basis of our natures, do really lead to suffering,
but if we consider life and how that: "birth is suffering;
decay is suffering; illness is suffering; death is suffering;
presence of objects we hate is suffering; separation from
objects we love is suffering; not to obtain what we desire is
suffering"; 2 and many other like experiences, we shall in
the end agree with the Buddha that suffering is inherent in
all the conditions of life, and if we recognise that the aggregates
springing from desire are responsible for the nature of the living
being, as he is at present, it becomes obvious that any effort
towards a different condition must begin by an abolition of
these.
If that be the case, however, the problem is: how are these
aggreg~tes which arise from desire (or craving) to be pre-
vented from arising, how and by what means may the
causes of suffering be uprooted? To this the two last
noble truths supply the answer. Suffering can only cease
when passionlessness, and "cessation of this very craving'~
are attained, by "the laying aside of, the giving up, the
being free from, the harbouring no longer of this craving."
And in order to attain this passionlessness and abolish craving,
man should abandon a life "given to pleasures, devoted to
pleasures and lusts," for this is "degrading, sensual, vulgar,
ignoble and profitless"; but he must also avoid a life given
over to mortifications, for these are equally " painful, ignoble
and profitless"; there is, therefore, only one way, namely, the
Middle Way, which consists in following the Eightfold Path
contained in the fourth Noble Truth, that is: "Right views,
right intent, right speech, right conduct, right means of liveli-
hood, right endeavour, right mindfulness and right meditation."
Here there is no room for craving after worldly pleasures, nor
after the pleasures of the hereafter, to be bought by mortifica-
tions ; this is that straight and narrow path which allthehighest
1 The meaning of this word is the most difficult of any in Sanskrit
to render into English: synergies or modifications are also often used in
translation.
2 Mahavagga, First Sermon. " Foundation of the Kingdom of Righteous-
ness."
THE BUDDHA 235
have trod, and which is undoubtedly the most difficult of
any to achieve. But as every birth, of worlds as of men, is the
fruit of travail and upheaval, why should a birth into an utterly
new condition be any different ? I would like to sum up all
that I have said of the Buddha's doctrine by giving a very
beautiful little sermon of his, which I think is his most perfect
expression of the freedom I am setting out to discover.
At Savatthi.... Then he (the Exalted One) said:
" Attachment, brethren, is. bondage ; aloofness is freedom.
By attachment to body, brethren, consciousness, if it get a
standing, may persist. With body for its object, with body
for its platform, seeking means of enjoyment, it may come by
growth, increase, abundance.
"Were a man, brethren, to declare this: 'Apart from body,
apart from feeling, apart from perception, apart from the
activities, I will show forth the coming or the going or
the decease or the rebirth of consciousness, or the growth or the
increase or the abundance of consciousness,' to do that were
impossible.
"If lust for body, brethren, is abandoned by a brother, by
that aba:Q.donment of lust, its foot4old is cut off. Therebythere
is no platform for consciousness. Likewise as regards lust for
feeling~ perception, the activities. So also, brethren, if lust
for the consciousness element be abandoned by a brother, by
that abandonment of lust its foothold is cut off. Thereby
there is no platform for consciousness. Without that platform
consciousness has no growth,·it generates no action (or concep-
tion) and is freed : by freedom it is steady : by steadiness it is
happy : owing to happiness it is not troubled. Beinguntroubled
of itself it becomes utterly well, so that it knows : ' Destroyed
is re-birth, lived is the righte~us life, done is the Task, for life
in these conditions there is no hereafter.' " 1
This description of the Nirvana state which shall succeed to
our present condition as being" quiet,"" blissful" and" free,"
is perfectly in keeping with that teaching of Jesus regarding
the "rest "which he who reaches the Kingdom shall find, and if
further we compare this saying with the surprised joy of the
man who found the hidden treasure in the field, we may
accept it that his astonishment is the bliss that the Buddha
speaks of, and both therefore teach that at the end of the Way
lies the Kingdom or Nirvana, which is rest or quiet from the
agitation of life and individuality-and perfect joy.
I feel convinced that few, if any, in the whole history of the
1
Samyutta Nikaya, X~II. , 53-I, Pali Text Society Publications.
THE WORLD BREATH
world have known more about the conditions of the next wave
that must arise than did the Buddha, nor of the way to achieve
that end ; he was truly a forerunner, perfectly conscious of his
condition-and what he said regarding it must become more
and more valuable as we progress in the knowledge of what
is the true goal of mankind. Undoubtedly the Buddha can
speak to our most enlightened psychologists to-day in a
language they know, and teach us all much that we must learn.
I cannot refrain, therefore, from giving one more extract from
his teaching which I think is particularly convincing to any-
one possessing any modern knowledge either of physics or
psychology. In one of his most famous sermons, the Buddha
starts by speaking of the " eight positions of mastery " over
the delusion arising from the apparent permanence of external
things (which, although also apposite, I cannot go into here),
and then follow the eight stages of deliverance " from the
hindrance to thought arising from the sensation and ideas
due to external forms." ·
"A man possessed of the idea of form sees forms" (under-
stands their relation to his sense perceptions, realises what
creates and makes his conception of them) ; " this is the first
, stage of deliverance." "Without the subjective idea of forms
he sees forms externally" (he sees forms as they are in them-
selves, much as a scientist sees the ingredients of forms to-day,
objectively, not in relation to himself-or as the biologist might
see the frog he is dissecting, apart any wishes or· desires <;>f
his own) ; " this is the second stage of deliverance." " With
the thought tit is well/ he becomes content 11
(concentrated;
this verse is very difficult to understand, but it seems to denote
a condition wherein our volition ceases, and we accept what is
around us without preoccupation, training our minds to con-
centrate) ; "this is the third stage." ... "By passing quite
beyond all idea of form, by putting an end to all idea of resist-
ance, by paying no attention to the idea of distinction, he,
thinking ' it is all infinite space,' reaches (mentally) and remains
in the state of mind in which the idea of infinity of space is
the only idea that is present" (I think this stage has been
brought nearer by the present-day science of physics. Ad-
mittedly we can so far only achieve a knowledge of infinite space
mentally, it has not yet entered our consciousness that every-
thing we see as solid mass : our trees, our houses, our bodies,
are merely rather thicker way~s Qf ai]:. a mere aggregation of
protOi.i"Sand eiectrons-;-but undoubt'~dly such consciousness
will eventually be attainable) ; " this is the fourth stage." . . .
THE BUDDHA 237
u By passing quite beyond all idea of space being the infinite
basis, he, thinking it is all infinite reason, reaches (mentally)
and remains in the state of mind to which the infinity of reason
is alone present 11
(the reason which is recognised as being the
constructor of the universe) : "this is the :fifth stage." The
next stages I cannot comment upon as they are something we
must just accept from the lips of one who obviously knows them
from experience; as we, non-mathematicians, might accept the
teaching of Einstein, conscious that we cannot ·follow his
reasoning yet feeling sure that he knows what he is talking
about, and we may therefore believe his assurances and draw
our own conclusions. " By passing quite beyond the mere
consciousness of the infinity of reason, he, thinking nothing at
all exists, reaches (mentally) and r·emains in the stage of mind
to which nothing at all is specially present ~~ ; " this is the sixth
stage." ... "By passing quite beyond all idea of nothing-
ness, he reaches (mentally) and remains in the state of mind to
which neither ideas nor the absence of ideas are specially
present " ; " this is the seventh stage." . . . " By passing
quite beyond the state of neither ideas nor the absence of
ideas he reaches (mentally) and remains in the state of mind
in which both sensations and ideas have ceased to be·"; "this
is the eighth stage of deliverance.111
"Those who, after
leaving in this world what has been seen or heard or thought,
and all virtue and (holy) works, after leaving everything of
various kinds, after penetrating craving, are free from passion,
such indeed I call men that have crossed the stream ~~-of
this world period. 2
From this last we are still very far removed. Jesus clearly
knew that condition and realised he had attained it : " And no
man hath ascended into heaven, but he that descended out of
heaven, even the Son of man, which is in heaven,"-but it
seems to me that we are· on the way in a curious roundabout
fashion. Do not the greatest scientists to-day regard every-
thing as waves of energy, have they not thereby put cc an
end to all idea of distinction,~~ have they not mentally reached
the conception that everything is just ''infinite space''?
They seem to me clearly the first high priests of the new world-
religion; that we have not yet recognised them as such, comes
from the fact that we are accustomed to regard both religion
and its priests as something apart from life, they are tied up
in our minds with morality, whereas in its real sense, re!igion
1 Maha-Parinibana Sutta, Chap. III, vv. 34-41.
11
Sutta-Nipa.ta: Nandamanavapukka.
\
THE WORLD BREATH
is a-moral : it is primarily the search for the '' wood beyond the
world," and only in so far as the realisation of the highest idea
of life contributes to that end, is morality concomitant with
religion. Nietzsche expressed in words that might be the
Buddha's, the difference between the follower of canonical
religion and the true religious leader whose nature I am trying
to express : '' The noble man desireth to create new things and
a new virtue. The good man willeth that old things be pre-
served."1 The good man is the orthodox man of whatever
creed, the noble one is the leader, the creator of new ways, new
values, he will eventually be the founder of the new wave ;
he does not seek to make men moral but to drive them on to
a wider, wiser and less limited form of existence than is our
present one.
'' The Tathagata, brethren, who being an arahant, is a fully
enlightened one, because of disgust at body, of the fading out
of body, of the ceasing of body, is called ' freed without grasp-
ing,'' fully enlightened.' That brother who is freed by insight,
because of disgust at body, of the fading out, the ceasing of
body is called 'freed without grasping,' freed by insight." ...
(Follows the same disgust at feeling, at perception, at activities,
at consciousness.) "Nowherein, brethren, what is the distinc-
tion, what is the specific feature, what is the difference between
the Tathagata, who, being arahant; is a fully enlightened one,
from the brother who is freed by insight ? . . . Then listen,
brethren, and apply your minds closely. Iwill speak....
The Tathagata, brethren, who, being arahant, is fully enlight-
ened, he it is who doth cause a way to arise which had not
arisen before ; who doth bring ab'out a way not brought about
before ; who doth proclaim a way not proclaimed before ·;
who is the knower of a way, who understandeth a way, who is
skilled in a way. And now, brethren, his disciples are way-
farers who follow after him. That. brethren, is the distinction,
the specific feature, which distinguishes the Tathagata, who,
being arahant, is fully enlightened, from the brother who is
freed by insight."2
That is he who has entered upon the new wave, has left
humanity for ever-and where one has gone, others may surely
follow!
1 Thus Spake Zarathustya : 0£ the Tree on the Hill.
2 Samyutta Nikaya. XXII, 586.
CHAPTER III
JESUS, SON OF MAN.
"My brother, eat thy bread, for the son of Man is risen from among
them that sleep."
Gospel according to the Hebrews.
I
I
HAVE now arrived at a point where I am inevitably
faced with the necessity of speaking of Jesus Christ.
. I would have avoided doing this had it been possible, for,
firstly, I firmly believe that none is fit to speak of Him who
has not walked in His footsteps and experienced at first hand
what His teaching really means; secondly, far too many people
have talked and written about Him already, instead-of thinking
and doing ; and lastly, but chiefly, He is a personal experience
to anyone who thinks seriously about Him, and therefore if one
happens to advocate a slightly different conception of Him to
that accepted by the majority, one necessarily offends the
susceptibilities of many good and sincere people,-which I
have no desire of doing, knowing that feelings run high on these
subjects! However, I will at once make my confessio fidei,
and after that if there be some who would prefer not to hear
Jesus spoken of in this unorthodox fashion, they need only
skip this part, and turn to the second half of this chapter.
After working out my Periodic Law through all its phases,
up to this point, without any preconceived opinions about the
part that Jesus might eventually play in the world breath, in
the end He seemed to emerge quite simply and naturally,
without there being anything miraculous about it, or any
sudden leap into new and unprecedented phenomena, as the
highest pinnacle the human race has yet achieved.
When once we realise that out of mankind must be hom a
further stage in the course of waves that lead up to the final
break of all waves on the beach of God, if we then look around
us for signs of such a stage, our eyes are inevitably drawn to
the Buddha, to Jesus and to Mahomet, in whom there are
unmistakable signs of a more perfect condition rising up out of
this human one. I have no doubt that they are the firstfruits
239
240 THE WORLD BREATH
of the next wave that will arise when that of mankind
has sunk to rest,-they are the first shafts of light that shoot
up into the sky from behind the horizon at dawn, the promise
of the sun to come. This really says everything, but as I have
attempted to make my readers understand something of the
significance of the Buddha in this relation, I cannot omit to
speak of Jesus also, more especially as He seems so much
nearer and more comprehensible to us. But we may as well
face the fact that in regarding Jesus in the light of a fore-
rUJiner heralding a new world condition, we shall have to turn
our whole conception of Him upside down. Instead of con-
sidering Him as one who descended to earth from out of
celestial regions, a superhuman being from the first, my
conception implies a sending him up from earth : instead of
a descent, a rise from mankind into a Son of man. And this
is what I shall attempt to describe.
Before anything else, however, I would like to apologise for
leaving the precepts of Jesus out of the question a~together,
but when I began to write of them, I very soon discovered that
this was too vast and controversial a subject to be dealt with
in these pages. They would require a volume to themselves
in order to be understood from the point of view of Jesus'
place in the Periodic Law. I will therefore confine myself to
an attempt to show what Jesus Himself seems to have con-
sidered his role to be,-in relation to mankind and to the
breath of God we have been pursuing thus far. If I succeed
in this, it is then inevitable that we shall understand His
teaching in a different way to heretofore. The meaning of
one who says : I give you the means to come and be as I am,
is necessarily different to that of a being who is fundamentally
divided from us by a supernatural birth! This does not mean
that I do not think He was different to us however, for He
most certainly was; though not by birth, but by growth, and
I firmly believe that it is a misconception of this point ~hat
has hampered and retarded the interior 1
' leavening '' of
Christianity for 2000 years.
Although half the world may be so-called 11
Christian'' to-
day, there is not one in a million who is a true follower of Jesus,
and who, realising His ideals, lives accordingly, and I believe
that the reason for this is that He has either been regarded as a
supernatural being, or as one more of the many myths evolved
out of the brain of man from time to time-there has been
no other choice. Anyone who questioned what was taught
regarding Him in a sincere spirit of enquiry was always met
JESUS, SON OF MAN. 24I
with the reply : '' You must believe because He was the Son
of God,'' and who could ever hope to follow in the steps of such
a one? That was all very well until the scientific era set in,
but to-day, rightly or wrongly, such a reply is only considered
fit for children, and it is even questionable whether it improves
the native of darkest Africa to replace his age-worn super-
stitions by a new one ! And as regards the thinking world,
this treatment of Christianity is likely to undermine its
authority altogether. In these times we attack everything that
is served up to us with searching questions, or explode it with
-the dynamite of instructed and logical reasoning, and religion
cannot hope to escape unmolested. But I feel convinced that
· if Jesus' teaching were put into the melting-pot it would emerge
with greater po-wer and more refulgent Truth than ever before.
It would fnen become clear that His knowledge outstripped the
ordinary knowledge of mankind by nineteen centuries, and,
although all the formulre of orthodox Christianity should
crumble to dust, out of the ashes the personality of Jesus
must arise supreme.
But besides putting His life in a wrong perspective, the haze
of our deification of Jesus seems to have obscured our minds to
the fact that, although He certainly never denied being the
"Son of God," at the same time He always spoke of "our
Father." That could only mean one thing, namely, that in His
eyes all men are sons of the Father, and the difference between
one and another is one of degr~ not of condition. '' If a man
love me, he will keep myword ; and my Father will love him,
and we will come to him and make our abode with him."1
And keeping His word does not imply a leap from natural into
supernatural, but a step by step pursuance of the way, his
"new and living way," which, even had Jesus been the first,
He would not forever· remain the only one to tread. Anyone
reading His words with an open mind, must realise that He
intended all men to reach His state: ''If I be lifted up I will
draw all men to me ? " 2
It seems to me quite clear that this was the way in which
Jesus' disciples regarded the matter, they do not seem to have
contemplated the possibility of not being able to follow in His
footsteps, in fact their whole teaching has but this one end in
view; had .they regarded Him as conceived by God in any
different way to themselves, they would certainly have spoken
differently : '' Have this mind in you which was also in Christ
Jesus," says Paul, and John is even more explicit: "Beloved,
1 John xiv, 23. : Ibid. xii, 32.
g
THE WORLD BREATH
now are we children of God and it is not yet manifest what we
shall be. We know that if he shall be manifest we shall be like
him ; for we shall see him even as he is."1 That is, when we
shall have entered upon the next period·, whatever it be, that
in which He was and (as far as we can understand} is, we shall
be like Him, and understand His true nature. It would be
impossible to discover a clearer refutation of any inherent
difference in Jesus, implied or otherwise. We are now children
of God, but the rest is unknowable, except that we shall be
the same as Jesus when we have prepared ourselves. Does He
not say so Himself in so many words: tt He that believeth on
me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works
than these shall he do," 2 believe, that is, in His knowledge,
in His infallible judgment, as we n1ight believe in the wisdom
of Einstein, of Planck or of Jung, who might any of them have
uttered these same words. Once we recognise this fact and
replace faith in the supernatural by faith ig_a wi~m which
was so far in advance of its time, thatlt has been mistaken
for divinity until the present day (as might Volta's or Ramsey's
or Marconi's two hundred years ago} we shall begin to take
His words as literally as we take those of our present-day wise
men, and discover that essentially there is nothing to prevent
our doing His tt works," except our own infirmity of purpose!
Seeing, however, that Jesus' knowledge resulted in a life
so completely different to ours that it has led to the idea that
He possessed supernatural powers, it is clear that if we are
ever to follow in His steps it is nothing short of a new life
altogether that is required of us, which is corroborated by
the fact that the words "life " 3 and tt living " 4 when used by
or in relation to Jesus-" the living One " 5-evidently imply
something entirely different to the usually accepted sense of
the term. If there be one thing about which we can have no
doubt whatever, it is that we are alive, therefore when Jesus
says: ''I came that they may have life, and have it more
abundantly,"6 it is clear that He must have meant life of
another kind to ours, and I think, in the words which are some
of the greatest He ever uttered, He explains what He meant:
" I am the Way, the Truth and the Life."7 He was not on a
way, but was the Way, and that Way was inspired by a Truth
that is obviously fundamental to the new form of life which
He came to give-and His life has in it the first germs of Life
in itself, THE LIFE, not as is ours: life mixed with all the
1 John iii, 2.
• Ibid.
2 Ibid. xiv, I2.
5 Ibid.
3 Fragments from O:ryYhynchus.
6
John x, ro. 7 John xiv, 6.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 243
ashes of physical worlds. No man ever spoke more clearly;
obviously His way and life were different to any other man's,
and He must have been aware of the reason for it : He had
conquered for Himself "the way of God,"1 and His experience
had probably opened His eyes to the true nature of what He
had left behind, and shown Him that men are still, more than
half, belonging and subject to the material world, and that in
so far, they are not fully u alive." But if and when we learn His
"Truth," we shall inevitably pursue the" Way" it teaches,-
(" cross the stream ")-and enter the Life, free from death and
all the other constituents of physical existence, to which it must
inevitably lead. '' If ye abide in my words . . . ye shall know
the truth and the truth shallmake you free," 2-free of this world
ina state which must be the rising of a new wave. These words
also explain some sayings of His that have always seemed
miraculous and devoid of common sense up to the present :
on various occasions He says: "If a man keep my words, he
shall never see death,"3 or words to that effect; of course this
could not have meant death in the ordinary sense of the term,
since there is no body born that is not subject to death, but
if '' some standing there " had understood His words and
entered into the "life" He came to give, such were in a true
sense "living," and death would be no more to them than a
throwing off of a cloak that had become useless.
What this greater Life consists of, no one can really explain,
Lao-Tsu says of it: "He who knows Tao does not speak
about it, he who speaks does not know it,"4 and Jesus admits
that He speaks of It in such a way that : "seeing they may
not see, and hearing they may not understand," only by
experience of it may anyone know. But any man who has
begun to understa1"1d will realise that such a life as Jesus
experienced -is like a fountain of living water, welling up in
the soul: ''as the Father has life in himself, so hath he given
t9 the Son to have life in himself/'S a life without end, unmixed
With anything that is not life : (Life as it is IN-ITSELF. )
But Jesus seems not only fully aware of the greater life stage
that must grow out of this one, the sonship of mankind, but
He definitely accepts the role of forerunner. He knows that
all mankind must eventually tread His way, and out of this
knowledge He can give the promise that no other man has
ever given: "because I live, ye shall live also."6 What
1 Matt. xxii. r6. 2 John viii, 32.
3 Ibid. viii. 51. (Note. See also: Mark ix, I; Luke ix, 27.)
' Tao-teh-king. 561•
6
John v, 26. 11 Ibid. xiv, g.
THE WORLD BREATH
more could any man say! But mankind, even to this day,
does not seem to have realised that there is anything in all
this but a post-mortal existence in a problematic "heaven,,;
it does not seem to have struck men that Jesus did not use
the futu_!"e tens~ but the present one in all such sayings; and
that what He wanted was to make men live here and now.
And if we consider all that He and the Buddha were, and
taught the world, regarding another condition, it is amazing
that no one has yet taken the trouble to examine their teaching,
not in a spirit of denial, but in one of objective enquiry, free
of all the trappings of doctrinaires and churches. The Buddha
gave perfectly clear instructions as to what it is that has to be
overcome, in order that men may attain a condition beyond
our present one; Jesus' life is a perfect example of one who has
freed Himself from these present conditions, and can say with
truth : " I am the resurrection and the life ,,-that which has
come alive out of what was dead ; and although we all belong
to the " dead ,, at present, yet it is clear that we must all
eventually "resurrect," bring the son of man to birth, and
that Jesus knew this, is proved by the fact that His whole work
aims at opening the way to it : u he that believeth in me,
though he were dead, yet shall he live ; and whosoever liveth
and believeth in me shall never die.,,1
Any attempt at a wider understanding of Jesus' life and
aims must necessarily begin with the question : how did He
build up that new life in Himself, how are others to build it?
Surely as a mountain is built ; neither He nor any man may
leap by sudden miracle into a supernormal existence, every
step follows the last, as has been amply proved in the course
of this work, and the future must be constructed on the
foundations of the wisdom acquired by mankind through the
ages. When Jesus said to the Jews : " I have come to fulfil
the Law, not to destroy it," He showed that He realised that
His teaching could only take root in soil already prepared,
and that He fully intended to build on the faith of His people.
The world would not know Christianity to-day, had Jesus
preached to any other race. Every great teacher rises out
of the heart of a religious people, as the culminating soul of
that people. The Alps bear Mt. Blanc, .but it takes the Him-
alayas to carry Everest, and only a people who considered
themselves God's people as did the Jews alone, could have
given birth to one who understood that in the Primal One
was universal tt fatherhood.,,
1 John ii, 25.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 245
But the inner inspiration that made Him the Christ or
Messiah is a different thing altogether. That was not derived
from any law, nor negotiable by exterior means, nor sent by
miraculous intervention, it was dr~w_n fro~_~ut_ of the deptl_!s
of His o~ genius. He called the condition that thus arose
the" Kingdomm Heaven," but this was no place, no better
world, but a s_:tgte.of~. or soul, something to which all men
might have access did they but pursue "the Way." "Strive
therefore to know yourselves, and ye shall be aware that ye
are the sons of the Father ; ye shall know that ye are in the
(city of God) and ye are the city."1 It is clear that those
words were spoken by one who had found it, and, out of His
own experience of the way thereto, He tried to teach others;
had He been different from them by birth He could never
have given His hearers those instructions.
And this brings us to another age-old misconception of
Jesus. If men had to strive to find the city of God within,
they obviously could not buy it like some universal panacea!
Were there any means of so doing, the world would be very
different from what it is. But this is what has always been
implied by the baptismal ceremony, for which I cannot find
any justification in anything Jesus said or did. I shall here
be reminded of the words : " Except a man be born of water
and of spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God."2 But
if we remember what He said to the woman of Samaria : " who-
soever drinketh the water that I shall give him shall never
thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall become in
him a well of water springing up to eternal life,"3 I think
we may take it, that in both cases He was speaking of the
same" water," and that it was no element, but the life-giving
water of His words that must result in a new birth. His
whole teaching refutes the idea that He would ever have
thought for a moment that any physical application of water
colild bring about the new birth He was speaking of, it was
so obviously a spiritual experience.
And .as regards the story of His baptism in Jordan, it
seems to me, after studying the facts, that it was quite simply
the story of His attainment of enlightenment (the same experi-
ence as the Buddha's under the Bo tree, or Paul's on the road
to Damascus) told in symbolical terms. If we read the com-
monly accepted version, not as a biographical note, but as an
allegory, many things will become clear that we did not realise
1 F~agments /Yom Oxyyhynchus.
3
Ibid. iv, q.
s John iii, 5·
THE WORLD BREATH
before. Firstly, we should remember that in the contemporary
Orphic mysteries, "Joannes" stood for fish, namely, some-
thing that came up out of the waters, and in Jewish literature,
Jonah also means fish, and both were used to symbolise a new
birth, which symbolism obviously had its origin in child-birth,
or even earlier, in the birth of life itself out of the primal
waters, which, as shown by many myths, was intuited by the
human race since time immemorial. Secondly, the dove was
another symbol much used in those times, to denote a spiritual
birth, both by the Jews, who remembered the sign of new life
brought to Noah by the dove, and by the Greeks, for whom
it was the symbol of Aphrodite, the Goddess of Love, whose
birth out of the waters signified, in the mysteries, the birth
of the soul. Therefore, taking these things into consideration,
it then transpires that Joannes represents the birth of the new
life that had come to Jesus, and the dove proclaims that it
was not a new material· life, but a new spiritual state into
which He was born, and the whole story is quite plainly the
narrative of what happened to Him after He had completed
His term of self-training in the wilderness-not a prescription
for the use of others! By perfect self-conquest, as told in
in the story of the temptations, Jesus clearly attained what in
Buddhist terms is called "enlightenment," that is the new
birth in the spirit, and that seemed to those who knew about
him so momentous an occurrence that they could only describe
it by saying that "the whole fount of the Holy Spirit " 1
descended upon Jesus. But this was purely His own spiritual
experience. I cannot discover anything in the whole New
Testament that )Ilight lead us to suppose that He thought
anyone would enter the Kingdom or realise His teaching more
fully by means of any formal act, baptismal or otherwise. In
fact St. John clearly states that:" Jesus himself baptised not,
but his disciples,"2 and the only time that Jesus spoke of
baptism, it was in the future tense and obviously referred to
His coming ordeal : " But I have a baptism to be baptised
with ; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished ! " 3
I therefore think it is time that we abandoned the idea of
this short cut to Heaven, and turned to an earnest considera-
tion of the means of finding. it which Jesus does advocate :
" Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and his righteousness and
all these things shall be added to you "4_nothing He ever said
could justify anyone in thinking there could be any other way !
1 Gospel according to the Hebrews.
• Luke xili, so.
1 John iv, 2.
' Matt. vii, 33·
JESUS, SON OF MAN 247
Further, a close examination of all Jesus' words concerning
it makes it perfectly plain, it seems to me, that His " Kingdom
of Heaven , was in no sense a reward He was offering to those
who followed Him in this life. We only need remember His reply
to the mother of Zebedee's children: "Ye shall drink indeed of
my cup, and be baptised with the baptism that I am baptised
with: but to sit on my right hand and on my left (that is, have
a position in some after-life realm) is not mine to give, but it
shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father,"1
and we need only read the parable of the wedding feast to
know how they are chosen !. Jesus' teaching was so definite
on this point that I can perfectly well understand that the
11
ten . . . were moved with indignation " when they heard
these questions. It seems incredible that James and John
could have lived at His side for so long and yet countenanced
such a question from their mother, for it is palpable that all
Jesus' teaching concerning H~~ingdo~_is of a c_ondition, not
a place-something tQ_Qe achie..v:ed not obtained. "The King-
dom of Heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed which a man
took and sowed in his field : which indeed is the least of all
seeds : but when it is grown it is the greatest among herbs and
becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge
in its branches.''2 Such a description could never have been
applied to a post-mortem heaven, a land to which· people
who were accounted worthy might enter after this life-these
words make it clear beyond any manner of doubt that this
kingdom of which Jesus taught is something that grows,
that man must cultivate, that starts as something small and
insignificant-hardly noticeable-and ends in being something
so great that all may see it and " lodge in its branches., And
any positiye statements that Jesus ever made regarding that
" Kingdom , imply the same thing : it is like a leaven which a
woman hid in a measure of meal, till the whole was leavened,
that is the fi.Iiest .comparison of all, no simile could express it
better. Within all men that leaven lies hidden, most men carry
it in them without recognising it, but it is doing its leavening all
the same, and whether they be conscious of it or not, there are
many who are not only being-leavened themselves, but are
spreading the Kingdom all around.
For me the first gates to the Kingdom were opened by Laf-
cadio H®m twenty-eight years ago, they were opened alittle
further by ~tJ~);-.9:_:p,g$ ofAssisisixteen years ago, and the most
momentous leavening of all was accomplished by Sir Arthur
1 Ibid. XX, 23.. 2 Ibid. xiii, 31-32.
THE WORLD BREATH
~ddin_gi.on ; two out of these three teachers had no intention
Ol1:>eiiig teachers in this sense, and yet the fact that they speak
from out of a greater, more profound understanding of realities
than most men, gives them the power to influence others. I
speak of these and their" leavening" power, but every person
who has had great turning-points in life will be able to point to
someone who either by words or writing has opened his or her
eyes to wider horizons: among men now living P. B. Clayton
has done much, C. G. Jung has a wide circle of influence, Krish-
namurti also, to mention only a few, and history is full of the
great and small of all nations who have contributed their share
to the leavening of the whole. But, of course, those who have
really understood something of what Jesus gave to the world
have had a greater chance of enlightenment than most; could
they but have carried forward His teaching undiluted, the
Kingdom of Heaven would be almost here! Did He not say:
" The Law and the prophets were until John : since that time
the kingdom of God is preached and every man presseth into
it" ?1 But not enough by a long way, even now, after two
thousand years.
Just as it was beginning to look as if men were as a whole
becoming more civilised, u.nd the leavening was slowly spreading
to all parts of the earth, the European war burst upon man-
kind, and showed that the plant was rotting at the core. How
could anyone be expected to believe in a teaching of love when
the chief protagonists were the loudest proclajmers of hate?
I do not believe that this disproved Jesus' teaching, however,
but only the caricature of it that has been evolved by mankind.
He stands where He always stood, but how many are there
that practise what He taught ? Sometimes I am inclined to
believe that we have arrived at the day He prophesied, when
there are" wars and rumours of wars," but He also added, " and
this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world
for a witness unto all nations ; and then shall the end come " ; 2
perhaps we are not so far from it as it might appear ! It is
certain that there are thousands of humble men and women all
the world over who are " not far from the Kingdom," but who,
just because they are true followers of Jesus, are content to
become "as little children" and make no noise about it. But
besides these, there are also writers like Renan, like Joergensen,
like llr.uce :a-~~ton, like the anonymous author of " ~y ..@.
V_n_l~n_o_wn~j~," or teachers like Dick Sheppard, like Padre
Pio, like Sundar Singh, for instance, who, by attempting to make
t Luke xvi, 16. 1 Matt. xxiv, 14.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 249
Jesus' life and teaching a living thing in our daily modem exist-
ence, prove that He is still an influence in the world-that the
mustard tree is still growing. And the link between all people
who have realised something of the Kingdom-even though as
individuals they may know nothing of one another-is the
territory of the·Kingdom of Heaven, as Jesus intended it should
be, and when any of its citizens meet either in the flesh or in
the mind, there is an immediate recognition. All pay tribute to
Cresar as citizens of the world, but at the same time they know
that God's Kingdom is" not of this world," and they render to
God the things that are God's, thereby proving themselves
citizens of that Kingdom also. Within, around, invisible, in-
tangible, but in truth like the pearl of great price, for which
those who find it abandon all else-that is the Kingdom into
which we must enter in time. And once men realise-that is,
take for granted-that " The kingdom of God cometh not with
observation; neither shall they say Lo here! or Lo there!
for behold the kingdom of God is within you,"1 they have made
the first step towards attaining it. For therein lies the whole
secret, it is precisely this Kingdom within that all men will have
to seek in the end, nothing that can be pointed to in the physical
world without-that will have to be left behind. But Jesus
not only proves by His life, but promises again and again,
that those who seek shall find, and to those who knock it shall
be opened : " for there is nothing covered that shall not be
revealed ; and hid that shall not be known.,2
If we read the Gospels with this idea in mind Jesus' intention
transpires ever more clearly : " If any man will come after
me (follow His Way) let him deny himself (this earthly self),
and take up his cross (the cross of mankind) and follow me
(to the mount where the cross can be left behind for ever).
For whosoever shall save his li~e-or soul-shall lose it (because
the very wish to save oneself as an individual, constitutes the
bond to human personality, and excludes freedom), but who-
soever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's (die to all
we now consider ourselves alive in), the same shall save it."
In these words lies the whole substance of the Way that Jesus
puts before ·mankind, and the final words of this great passage
make it clear that what we "save" is of the same non-material
nature as the ideal itself. "For what shall it profit a man if he
. shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul, or what shall
-a man give in exchange for his soul u ; 3 if he has the whole world
he still belongs to that which is a phase that has to be overcome,
1 Luke xvii, 24. 1 Matt. x, 26. 8
Mark viii, 34-37·
THE WORLD BREATH
is of the past, he is clinging to a condition that is breathing its
last, as we saw above, and nothing can be a substitute for
the soul, wherein lies the new life that must arise. And I think
to-day we are making some progress in that direction-it is
already much that the " soul " is no more merely a vague
supposition, but that we have the certainty of its existence !
All the greatest teachers have known that the "losing"
of this life must become the way of all mankind, in order that a
new birth into Nirvana or the Kingdom of Heaven might be
accomplished, therefore in demanding of His followers that they
should deny themselves, and lose their lives for His sake, Jesus
did not claim anything exceptional from them. If anyone were
to follow the teaching of the Vedanta, of the Buddha, or of
Lao-Tsu implicitly, they must also lose the whole world and
gain their own souls-and by taking Jesus' words literally
we must reach the same detachment from the things of this
world as do Indians when they attain " Samadhi." I do not
deny, however, that the attempt to put His lesson into effect
is the most difficult thing in the world, but, when achieved the
result would certainly be a complete liberation from the
conditions in which mankind has existed up to the present,
and an entry into a state as new as any celestial kingdom
ever imagined: ''Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must
be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and
thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell· whence
it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is everyone that is
born of the Spirit."1 Can anyone tell to-day, or has any-
one ever told where lies the subconscious or the soul ? That
is admittedly outside all designations of· time and space,
and that idea is to our modern minds perhaps the nearest
approximation to a conception of the nature of that which
shall be "born again " of the Spirit, although, until we are
so born again, that nature must remain as unfathomable to us
as the wind!
Although I said in the beginning that I could not go into
Jesus' precepts for the guidance of our lives in the short space
I could afford in this book, yet as I spoke of the Buddha's Four
Noble Truths, so must I speak of the supreme commandment
that Jesus gave to the world, which lies at the root of His
whole life and teaching, and which may be regarded as His
particular contribution to mankind. Before He died He gave
His disciples 11
a new commandment," which was evidently so
important both to them and to Himself that it is reiterated
1 John iii, 7, 8.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 25I
many times in the course of their last talk together : " A new
commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another ;
as I have loved you, that ye also love one another ...1 Greater
love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his
friends. Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command
you ... These things I command you that ye love one another.''2
To be His friends, to love as He loved, was to be like Him, to
follow in His steps, to do and feel as He did, to enter His King-
dom, and this was what Jesus strove to make men understand
above all else, and for which He gave His life.
But, although His love for mankind was so great that it
carried Him even to the supreme sacrifice on the Cross in
order that men might learn that Love which must open the
gates to the greater life, as He approached His end, He
perhaps recognised that His earthly life was not a very
tempting example-one who is persecuted, even to death, by
his contemporaries treads a path on which few would care
to embark ! He therefore at the last revealed to His disciples
the inner power that had been at the heart of His teaching
and which, if followed, might make His Way acceptable to
all men. And there can be no doubt that if we could
realise the love for one another that He knew, the love that
swallows up every other consideration, the rest must inevitably
follow of itself. Therefore one feels, as one reads the story of
Jesus' last hours with His disciples, that, although all else falls
away, all other thoughts disappear-He almost seems to be
counting the minutes still left Him-one thing stands out
supreme, as if He were straining every nerve to impress upon
His hearers what it was vital for them to know before it was too
late. Which of us has not experienced at one time or another
that anxiety to say what is most important at the very last
moment, which, in all the preceding hours of leisure, we had
left unsaid-so was it with Him. Although His whole life
had been the expression of supreme love, yet, perhaps until the
last hours He had on earth, He had taken it for granted that
this must prevail. But when He was faced with the manifesta-
tion of what hate could do with men, and the full horror of the
coming trial was closing down upon Him (the scene in the
Garden of Gethsemane shows what He felt}, then He perhaps
realised for the first time the full power of a love that could
carry Him through to the bitter end for the sake of His· friends,
then and in all time. And this realisation of the source of His
strength must have convinced Him that there was only one
1 Ibid. xiii, 34· :a Ibid. xv, I3, I7.
THE WORLD BREATH
thing capable of overcoming hate in the world, without which
no new life could ever be achieved, and He therefore impressed
this thing on His friends again and again : That ye love one
another even unto death-that was all that mattered.
I have said a lot about the necessity of detachment from
earthly concerns in the course of this work, and it is perhaps
difficult to understand how both this and an all-absorbing love
could possibly exist together, it seems a contradiction in
terms. But I think if we turn to the realm of human origins
for a moment we may get an idea of how one may lead to the
other, and both be essential to the birth of a new life. In the
original Aramaic in which Jesus taught, I~ and~ are inter-
changeable terms, and it seems to me that this corresponds to
the most fundamental principle of all living things. Although
in animals the urge we call" love" hardly deserves the name,
and in the highest human beings it is something so sublimated
that the Buddhists call it" compassion," others" affinity," be it
called what it may, there is no denying that it is always the
source of new life.1 If, therefore, a new life is ever to arise out
of this present one, it is clear that it must have its birth in some
form of love, however etherealised. "It is the spirit that
quickeneth, the flesh pro:fiteth nothing; the words that I speak
to you, they are spirit and they are life.''2 And as all the words
He spoke were inspired by a love which embraced all man-
kind, that love must quicken the·child in the womb of humanity,
and, embuing it with a spirit greater than any yet experienced
on earth, must give birth to a new life. But, at the same time,
such love must possess the power of completely detaching men
from all considerations of the self. And even as the greatest
love we human beings know of, banishes all else from the mind
of him who loves, so would the love for all mankind never attain
the supreme heights of "quickening" the new birth, unless
the self were merged in the beloved and all earthly conditions
and considerations ceased. "And this is life eternal that they
might know thee the only true God " 3 ••• for '' God is love,
and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him."4
Out of such spiritual union must rise the new birth, ''the fruit
to life eternal.''
There is one last very important point in Jesus' life that is
vital to our understanding of Him : from all that has been said
in these pages,it is clear that the present existingformations will
have to die out completely before the new life can emerge, and
1 Is not attraction the cause of new formations even in crystals?
1 John vi, 63. a Ibid. xvii, 3. ' Ibid. iv, 16.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 253
unless we can discover something that might give us reason to
think that Jesus left nothing behind-even physically-which
might reconstruct some new earthly formation, we cannot defi-
nitely accept him as a new manifestation altogether. Perhaps no
one occurrence in the history of the world has been so much
discussed as the last three days of Jesus' life, but I feel that
even yet, the last word has not been spoken with regard to the
significance of the crucifixion and what happened .after, and
there are many things which Jesus said at the consecration of
His sacrifice, during His last supper, which are still far from
being elucidated. Here in His last moments with His friends,
Jesus certainly must have revealed to them the meaning of
what was about to occur, a revelation which was obviously
imparted to Paul, for it formed the basis of his whole apostle-
ship. In Paul's letters, which laid the foundations of Chris-
tianity, it is not so much Jesus' teaching as Christ crucified
that is preached to the world-and if any man ever understood
what Jesus meant to mankind, I think he did !-therefore,
if we would arrive at his knowledge, it is clear that it is to the
last hours of Jesus' life that we must look for enlightenment.
If we admit, in view of all that has been said here, that Jesus
was one of the first entrants into the new stage beyond mankind,
we must consider what He Himself said regarding His realisa-
tion of it, at the moment when He was about to consummate
the new life, and reach the farthest point on the in:flowing breath
of which we have had any indication as yet.
It is my conviction that if we would understand anything of
what Jesus intended to convey to His disciples before going out
to end His life on earth, we should, to begin with, possess some
knowledge of the ritual prescribed for the supper to be held
in every orthodox Jewish household in consecration of the
Passover. Whatever may be said to the contrary, Jesus was
certainly brought up as an orthodox Jew, and was even, in all
probability, a Rabbi. In the newly-discovered fragments of a
gospel, which contain the earliest records of Jesus' life yet
discovered, he is addressed as, ''Master (didaskale) Jesus,''
and this" Rabbi Jesus, is probably the actual form in which
Jesus was addressed by both friends and foes. (To make Him
appear as the One Master, and detach Him from the Jews, the
Christian Church forgot the Jewish formula !) But there are
besides various other signs of Jesus' rank or condition scattered
throughthe Gospels,1 I think, that we need not hesitate in saying
1 Matt. viii, 29. Mark i, 22. Matt. ix, 21•. Only a Rabbi could have wom
such a hem.
254 THE WORLD BREATH
that when Jesus sent His disciples to prepare the Passover meal
He was but acting in the manner prescribed for every orthodox
Jew. And, further, if He desired to celebrate the Passover as
was customary, all His actions at that supper must be inter-
pretable in the light of the traditional rites of the Jews.
For instance, "The cup of wine which Jesus handed to the
apostles is still now handed round on Passover night by the
householder to the members of his household."1 Therefore I
feel convinced that what He intended to tell His friends must
also have been couched in terms that bore some relation to the
liturgy used on such occasions, with which the disciples must
necessarily have been familiar-they would othervise not have
been able to understand the meaning of the symbols He used,
and whence would Paul have got his knowledge?
After a careful study of all the texts in various translations,
it seems to me that the secret lies in the words of the fifteenth
chapter of the Gospel of St. John, and in the very obscure passage
reported by the synoptics-evidently bearing on the subject of
His death and after : '' I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of
the vine until that day when I drink it new in the Kingdom of
God." 2 Certainly no one can ever have believed that Jesus
meant to drink the juice of the grape in the Kingdom of God,
obviously these words carried some special significance to those
who listened to them, for this is the only saying of His that is
recorded by the three first Evangelists-except those having
a direct bearing upon His actions--of all He must have said in
those last hours at supper. In order to appreciate what these
words conveyed to the men who heard them, we must stop to
consider the traditional symbolism of the Old Testament for a
moment. In Old Testament language the" vine" signifies the
people of Israel, which, after being broken and laid waste
should be redeemed by a " provine," an offshoot-figuratively
a'' son'' of the great vine. ''This son of the vine is an allegory
for the man or ' son of man ' whom God has chosen to restore
His people, His 'vine,' as the 'new Israel of God' to its
former wide-spreading glory-an allegory for the Messiah/'3
therefore it is certain that when Jesus proclaims : '' I am the
tme vine and my Father is the husbandm,an " 4 He is proclaim-
ing to every Jewish ear that He is the Messiah, and knowing
this, all the rest is clear. If He be the greater life that has risen
1 F. Nork: Rabbinische Quellen and Paralellen zum Neuen Testament.
2 Mark xiv, 25. Matt. xxvi, 29. Luke xxii, 29.
3 Dr. R. Eisler: Wine Symbolism ofthe Last Supper. Quest, Vol. 14, pp. 335·
'John xv, I.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 255
up out of the vine, then must it encompass the spiritual life of
all mankind that has been and is to come, for He is the outcome
of the old vine, therefore contains all the results of that old
vine's experiences in the past, a.Rd is the forerunner of all that
will shoot out of it i:ri the future. Did we not learn above from
Jung that the subconscious self is one in all mankind, that it
contains all experiences, all characteristics of the whole human
race, therefore any man who could cast off the material frame,
and enter that greater, all-embracing life, must become the son
of the vine: mankind.1 And the meaning of Jesus' saying
that He will not again partake of the fruit of the vine, that
is, His greater nature, until He drinks it "being new in the
Kingdom of God" (as the Coptic version has it), becomes
clear. In other words, He told them that from that time
on, He could not partake of the nature of the Messiah,
could not realise the fruit of the vine (mankind) until He par-
takes of it a newcomer in the Kingdom of God, when all should
be " fulfilled."
And yet, although the disciples reported these portentous
words they do not seem to have understood their full import,
for they obviously shared in the general expectation that He
would "save Himself" by a Messianic revelation at the last
moment: ''they thought that the Kingdom of God should
immediately appear."2 This despite the fact that, believing
Him to be the Messiah they, as Jews, should have known
Isaiah's prophecy concerning Him:" He was wounded for our
transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities ... he is brought
as a lamb to the slaughter ... for he was cut off from the land
of the living ; for the transgression of my people was he stricken.
. . . He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied;
by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many."3
What but such justification could Jesus have regarded as His
goal when He says : '' For the things concerning me have an
end''?
It is, however, not necessary to seek for any hidden meaning
in Jesus' words in order to know whether Heknew of His coming
death to thislife and entry into a new state, for as He approached
the end, He made no mystery of it, and showed the most
amazing perception not o:rily of what must occur immediately,
but even of what would be the eventual consequences of these
things: 11
A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow because
her hour is come ; but as soon as she is delivered of the child,
she remembereth no more the anguish for joy that a man is born
1 Ibid. XV, 5· s Luke xix, 11. 3 Isa. liii.
THE WORLD BREATH
into the world. And ye now therefore have sorrow (the anguish
of the coming birth), but I will see you again and your heart
shall rejoice and your joy no man taketh from you,"1 for it
will be an inner force-even the " spirit of Truth." These
words and those others to the same intent:" For I shall come
again and receive you unto myself, that where I am ye may
be also,"2 constitute the "new covenant" that Jesus made
with man, which He sealed by the offering of His life. But it
seems to me a total misconception of Jesus to regard His
death as a form of propitiation to God ; He says quite
definitely:" I lay down my life that I might take it again. No
man taketh it from me but I lay it down myself., There is
nothing here that suggests any kind of offering to satisfy a
deity ! When He says : " This cup is my blood of the new
covenant which is shed for many," He was only using words
which for the Jews meant that He was accomplishing the
action expected of the Messiah whose death must be a shedding
of the blood of the '' vine,,, of all Israel in one-since for them
all Israel is one com-panionship, one con-sanguinity-to
attain a new life for all. Jesus with His wider vision was
conscious that the Messiah must die that not Israel alone, but
all mankind might learn how to Live : " And other sheep I
have which are not of this fold: them also must I bring, and
they shall hear my voice ; and there shall be one fold and one
shepherd.''3
There was besides another significance for the Jewish minds
of His hearers in that handing round of His cup, for this was
a rite that was performed in every Jewish family, not only on
every Sabbath, but was also an essential feature of the Pass-
over meal. " The rite of dividing a consecrated cup of wine
among all the participants of a meal, which is so obviously
presupposed in the gospels, is however still often observed
at the initial consecration (kiddush) of wine at each Sabbath
or feast day. Then the household consecrates wine in the
' cup of blessing , . . . and the whole family shares this
' eucharistic , portion of wine. . . . ' Take this and divide
it among yourselves,, and ' This cup which is poured out for
you ,-obviously imply that Jesus handed the blessed Kiddush-
cup to his disciples " 4-as also King David is expected to do at
the opening of the messianic banquet, to the righteous par-
ticipants thereat. .
If therefore Jesus was celebrating this Passover consecration
1 John xvi, 21. 1 Ibid. xiv, 3· a Ibid. x, 16.
' R. Eisler: Wine Symbolism ofthe Last Supper. Quest, XIV, Vol. III.
JESUS, SON OF MAN 257
with His family of disciples, in orthodox fashion, as indeed is
proved by His words: "with desire have I desired to eat
this Passover with you before I suffer,, then must He also
have sung one of the" hymns,, prescribed for these occasions.
Among those often read at the end of the Passover discourse
is Psalm cxvi, and this may very well have been the hymn
that Jesus sang with His disciples before they went out. That
hymn is a corollary to the words : '' my blood which is
sheil for you,, verse I3 runs : " I will take the cup of salvation
and call upon the name of the Lord." Now "kos jeshuah,
(cup of salvation) can equally be read: 11
kos Jeshuah ,, (cup
of Jesus), so that there is everylikelihood that Jesus used
this verse to convey to His disciples that the cup of Jesus-
containing His blood-shall be the cup of salvation. That the
disciples understood all these sayings to mean that by Him
they would be saved, is but natural, seeing that they had been
brought up in the traditional ideas of the Messiah.
But eventually that " cup of salvation,, together with the
later verse in the same Psalm: "Precious in the sight of the
Lord is the death of his saints," ended in the orthodox belief
that it was Jesus' intention to die "for the remission of the
sins '' of mankind, as Matthewhas it, for which I cannot discover
any sign· or justification in any other place in the New Testa-
ment. John the baptiser preached baptism 11
for the remission
of sins," not Jesus; and Jesus is even reported to have said to
His disciples, when He appears to them after His resurrection:
" Whosesoever sins ye remit, they shall be remitted unto
them,,; had He by His death remitted our sins, this injunc-
tion would have been superfluous. I cannot but think, there-
fore, that the words in Matthew, "for the remission of sins,"
were a later interpolation, more especially so as they are not
reported by either of the other synoptics, whose records of
Jesus' sayings at that supreme moment of the supper tally
perfectly with one another and with Matthew, in all other
respects.
And this suggestion seems to be confirmed by everything
Jesus ever taught, nowhere is there anything to show that He
regarded His coming death as that which should deliver men
from the consequences of their own deeds ; had this been so,
He would not have said:" ifye have faith as a grain of mustard
seed ... nothing shall be impossible to you,"1 and again:
11
if thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that
believeth,"2 etc. etc. What do these words signify but that
1 Matt. xvii, 20. 2 Mark ix, 23.
R
THE WORLD BREATH
it is we who must make the effort to attain to His level of life,
He was the Way, not the gate-money! His role is clearly
to make men aware that they can save themselves, and in that
sense He gives His life for their'' salvation." The idea that
Jesus' death and our further participation in it at communion
can buy off people's sins in the eyes of God, is merely the primi-
tive idea of the blood sacrifice, and I believe it has been partly
responsible for delaying us on our way to attaining the stage
that He arrived at. If, instead of believing that Jesus remitted
sins by his death, and that by our participation in it through
communion, He can still remit them, men would realise that
His death was but the supreme culmination of a life and
teaching, which must needs lead to a relinquishment of this
world-that He "shed His blood" that we might learn His
Way and Live, they must mingle their blood with His in a
cup of communion that would be the climax of all life on
earth.
Paul alone among the early followers of Jesus seems to have
known all this, for he says in words that only become compre-
hensible when taken in conjunction with all that has been said in
these pages, regarding the course of the World Breath: "The
first man Adam1 was made a living soul (man being the first
soul-or-mind-containing product of this earth) the last Adam
was made a quickening spirit."2 These words are profoundly
significant if one ponders on the word "quickening." The
child " quickens " in the womb, the sap " quickens " in the
trees, the quickening is always the presage of a new birth-
the first premonition of what is to come-and this very quick-
ening-spirit Jesus pre-eminently was. He was the first quick-
ening of a new life-the son that is to be born out of mankind
-He left the Adamic stage and was " quickening " into a
spirit stage ; the last Adam was not the last man on earth,
but the final product of earth, the supreme or latest product,
the messenger of a new stage altogether. And I firmly believe
that when we shall eventually understand the conditions of
that new stage, we shall also discover the explanation of Jesus'
disappearance from the tomb.
In this connection there is one point that has never yet
been fully elucidated, and which I cannot pass over unnoticed,
for I think that we are now in a better position to explain it
than ever before. On various occasions Jesus says: "Behold
we go up to Jerusalem and the Son of Man shall be delivered
unto the chief priests and scribes, and they shall condemn
1 Adam : earth, taken out of red earth. ~ Cor. xv, 22.
JESUS, SON OF ~ 259
him to death and shall deliver him unto the Gentiles, and they
· shall mock him and shall spit on him, shall scourge him and
shall kill him and after three days he shall rise again,"1 or
words to that effect. Some people might feel inclined to object
that these words were interpolated later, but, seeing that they
were repeated over and over again, it seems to me much more
likely that this saying carried some particular significance to
Jesus' followers, and belonged to the most carefully. preserved
traditions. To begin with, is there anything so very extra-
ordinary in the fact that Jesus foretold His end, seeing that
thousands of lesser men than He have done the same, and that
His end in particular was but the logical outcome of activities,
which He knew were nothing short of revolutionary, in the
eyes of His brother Rabbis ? And besides, did not these
words, or something very like them, form one of the accusa-
tions brought against Jesus at His trial? It is in any case
highly improbable that that was interpolated! If, therefore,
Jesus really did prophesy His end, the last words of that
prophecy form one of the greatest mysteries that confront us.
His statement regarding the "rising again after three days"
was as definite as were all His other statements regarding
what was about to occur, and if these have been proved correct,
it is unlikely that He should have made an unwarranted
assertion regarding the three days. We are, therefore, forced
to the conviction that there is something here that is not
explainable by ordinary criteria-if the orthodox explanation
of these things does not satisfy us !
In considering this matter of death in connection with all
Jesus said about Life and bringing freedom from death, it
seems to me there must be something here that is different
to the life and death we know of. The death that is final
death to all physical conditions is an event that probably
has no connection whatsoever with the death that ends a
life period-a mere dark stripe on the spectroscope ! When
Lord Rutherford succeeded in splitting the atom, it was a
very different matter from causing the atom to loose energy,
or even an electron, and so must the difference be between
death to earth life and the total annihilation of all physical
conditions.. This last might perhaps, cause the atoms of which
the body is composed to disintegrate and leave nothing behind
at·all ; and, if this concept be correct, if ever there was acase
when this occurred on earth, we might be certain that here a
new life had taken birth in very truth.
1 Matt. xx, 18: xxvi, 2: xvi, 21; Mark ix, 31; Luke ix, 44: xxiv, 7·
260 THE WORLD BREATH
Jesus undoubtedly possessed a profounder understanding of
human and other world conditions, than did any other man,
and is it not possible therefore that He understood the law
which governs the dissolution of the molecules of the body,
when the enlightened spirit frees itself from the material world
for ever ? If it be conceivable that physical atoms break
up and cease to coalesce, when all life as we know it ceases to
inform them, when the energy, which is essential to the exist-
ence of atomic configurations, :finally converts itself into a new
form altogether; and if Jesus knew the laws controlling these
things as we do not, (even to-day), it may be that He foresaw
that it takes this body three days to disintegrate all earthly
forms for ever. If that were so then in revealing to His
disciples what He knew regarding those three days, He gave a
final and decisive proof that He possessed knowledge that
already belonged to another state of existence-for what has
any other man known of such things? This may seem a wild
hypothesis, but if one reads Frank Morison's masterly exposi-
tion of the last events of Jesus' life1 there is no room left for
any other explanation, it seems to me-although even so, I
should hardly have dared to advance such a suggestion but
for the progress in scientific knowledge during the last decades !
Until the present time there '"was only one way of regarding
the story of Jesus' burial and " resurrection," and that was
by an unquestioning act of faith. But no one could have been
blamed who was somewhat sceptical about the whole thing,
and refused to believe in a Messiah, or in any " resurrection "
on orthodox lines !
If however we now re-read His life and teaching in the light
of the successive waves of evolution within the universal
motion of the World Breath, we can regard the whole story
in a new light altogether. We now know that it is absolutely
imperative that every wave should die in order that the next
might arise, and if we regard Jesus' teaching ·in the light of
this knowledge, it becomes perfectly obvious that He meant
His death to stand for the death of mankind, of the human wave,
in order that the new birth might mature. Does He not say
so in so many words : " Except a corn of wheat fall into the
earth and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth
much fruit," 2 and He was obviously applying these words to
His own fate and its results, .for they follow immediately upon '
the words : " The hour is come when the Son of. Man should
be glorified.'' His train ofthought is clear~ andthese words show
1 Who Moved the Stone? · 1 John xii, 24.
JESUS, SON OF MAN
a truly amazing perception of His position in relation to the
story of mankind. Furthermore I cannot but feel, after all that
has been said in these pages, that we too are bound to share
Jesus' sense of the inevitability of all that happened in Jeru-
salem during that tragic feast of the Passover: the new wave
had to arise somewhere, there must come some first concentra-
tions of the new force, as there were first concentrations out
of the nebulre, and it happened that Jesus was one of these,
and therefore could not possibly have ended His life in any
other way than He did-only after the complete extinction
of this wave could the new one rise supreme! Seen in this
light, we cannot but regard the chief priests, the scribes,
Pilate and Judas as mere instruments; if it had not been
possible to use these as a means of laying down this existence,
Jesus would have found some other, but for His purpose this
was the best way because it must attract most attention,
and serve to induce the greatest number of people to demand:
who was this man? And so He started the new life in men's
·minds which has spread in ever wider circles to this day. "I
will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you. Yet a
little while and the world seeth me no more, but ye see me;
because I live ye shall live also."1
There is a very beautiful hymn in the Apocryphal Acts of
John which seems to me to summarise everything Jesus ever
taught of what His life and death must mean to mankind,
what is encompassed by the wider life of the next wave:
" I am a lamp to thee who seest me ;
I am a mirror to thee who understandest me.
I am a door to thee who knockest me. ~ . .
See thyself in me who speak . . .
For thine is the Passion of Man that I must suffer.
Thou couldst not at all be conscious of what thou dost suffer,
Were I not sent as thy Word {Greek : Logos or Wisdom) by the
Father....
Who I am thou shalt know when I depart ;
What I now seem to be, that am I not. . . .
In me know thou the Word of Wisdom."s
Every one of these words is full of the suggestion of things
we have not been aware of hitherto; does He not say." I am
a mirror.... I am a door..... See thyself in me who
1 Ibid. .xiv, 18.
s Hymn of Jesus. Apocryphal Acts of John v. g6.
THE WORLD BREATH
speak "-what could such sayings mean but that He was to be
an energy of spirit inherent in all men, a life which should
embrace everything? Men were to know who He was when
He departed out of the physical limitations, and entered into
a state in which His life would be the light of men, as must be
the lives of the greater unities that shall make up the wave suc-
ceeding this one. And the Passion of Man, His Passion, is every-
man's: we must all go up to "Jerusalem" and leave this
physical life on the Cross, before we can hope to go further and
enter the new wave of a greater life. It was certainly to make
men realise these things, to give mankind of His wisdom, that
Jesus laid down His life for His friends. So far it has perhaps
profited us little, but He says: ''Be of good cheer, I have
overcome the world ! " And His having done so gives us an
assurance that we may also do the same, if our love and
understanding be great enough to give our lives for the LIFE
of the whole.
II
I think I have now said enough to make it clear that Jesus'
whole teaching was aimed at releasing men from the conditions
of this world and helping them to enter the next stage, but.
how easy is it to talk and how difficult to achieve! This is
not a lesson that can be understood by talk, if it were so, the
world would have followed Jesus long ago; anyone in any
walk of life could enter into that new birth which He·fore-
shadowed, and yet instead of this, the world to-day seems
further from it than ever. Considering the murders and per-
secutions, the revolutions and tyrannies that surround us,
it is often difficult not to conclude that Christianity is dead.
If Christianity were only the church, that conclusion would be
justified, for even where all religion has not actually been pro-
hibited, with every passing year nations become more lukewarm
in their adhesion to it. But there is luckily something more than
this. When Jesus said: ''Behold I am with you alway even
until the end of the world," and this could only be in a sense
apart all doctrines and churches, it was Himself as a spiritual
power, as an ideal planted in the mind of man, that could never
be extinguished until the world of men had come to an end,
and the new wave, the ful:fi.lment of that ideal, had arisen.
And with this conviction, I see the horrors perpetrated by
revolutionaries in all countries from a new standpoint. Even
though the Bolsheviks, for instance, abolish all religion, if we
have eyes to look beyond this present day, at the great course
JESUS, SON OF MAN
of humanity, we may realise, all appearances to the contrary,
that the goal it has set itself is a much deteriorated version
of the goal of all religions : unity of man. Lenin and
his followers have tried to enforce what religion sought in
vain to inculcate through appeals to man's individual con-
science ; they adopt the point of view of the man who said :
"My children don't love me, but d-n 'em I'll make 'em."
And who knows but that in, say five hundred years from now,
it will not be recognised that they forced mankind to make
the greatest stride ever made towards universal unity ? Out
of extremes something is always left over as residue, out of
lukewarm spirits nothing ever comes, and in view of the fact
that advance towards the next period is a cosmic necessity,
I cannot but believe that Nature can use human cataclysms as
well as stellar ones to forward her ends-that is so long as we
are not wise enough to assist her voluntarily. A friend of
mine once said : " It was necessary in former days that one
man should die for the people, now perhaps a whole nation
must be the sacrificial lamb, and the Russian nation is being
crucified for us all." And I am inclined to agree with him,
although I prefer to call them road-makers rather than beasts
of sacrifice.
But we must not imagine that the terrors of the Bolshevik
system are the only leavening powers in our time, science
is also working for unity and equality, by opening doors
that have always been closed, and inviting all men to par-
ticipate in its discoveries. And as it helps us to realise that
the truths it is unveiling are the same for all, and are not
the prerogative of any sect or class, so must we finally recognise
that the science of God is also above all differences, and its
truths one and the same for all time. It has long been evident
to the wise that the ideals put before mankind by the Buddha,
Lao-Tsu, Moses, Jesus, Plotinus, St. Francis of Assisi, Ekke-
hard, or to-day Krishnamurti are identical, hence the Truth
which inspired these ideals and the goal aimed at must
also be the same, for these men are not moralists, they
see Truth, the same once and forever, and their one aim is
to express it, to enlighten mankind. Some among them were
already in part what mankind shall become, were already
in very truth " sons of man "-Jesus clearly attained a
freedom from the limitations of human individuality, such as
was never known before, His sense of unity with those around
Him shows Him to have been capable of transcending the
conditions common to both organic and inorganic forms. and
THE WORLD BREATH
of entering a state where all is one : " Ye shall know·. that
I.am in the Father, and ye in me and I in you." No one has ever
said that since, but where one has trod, others may certainly
follow, and in their hearts men know they can follow, why
otherwise should they have persisted in following Jesus through
all the vicissitudes of 2000 years of failure ? " Christ and
Buddha were the names of a condition to be attained ; Jesus
and Gautama were the persons to manifest it,"1 and that
condition is eternal, it is not restricted to either time or place,
not attached to any individual, sect or status ; there all
differences cease for ever.
"The soul into which God shall be born must have become
free from, and lost to time; she must have soared upward
and become transfixed in the riches of God. There width
and breadth are neither wide nor broad. There does the soul
know all things and recognises them there in their perfection.
. . . Were there a hundred persons in the Godhead, and one
who could realise distinction without number or quantity, yet
he would not be aware of anything more than one God."2
If we regard mankind, not as a random element in space,
but as one stage in the universal rhythm, then are those who
have helped to raise the tide of humanity to that state, wherein
" God shall be born," in the nature of cosmic forces. And, if
we use the pulsations of life and death deliberately, inspired
with the idea that these are but part of a greater pulsation, and
aim at arriving at the sunset of this " human " period, and at
unfolding the new dawn onto infinite horizons, unbounded by
any sphere, finally the day will come when there will be" noth-
ing more than one God." At the end of its period, being one,
mankind must in unison throw out a wave of high potentiality,
which will possibly form one single manifestation, of which
there is continual mention in the fourth Gospel, but that will
still not be the final wave, but only the child of this earth period.
That will then in some far distant epoch, in circumstances
incalculable, raise a wave of potentiality undreamt of to-day,
yet another step nearer to the high tide of All-oneness-perfect
freedom because all boundaries, all limitations between one
and another, either persons, molecules or stars, will have
vanished.
This has been the conviction that has guided me through
all the long years during which I have been working out my
Law of Periodicity, and, [apart all theories,] inspiring the
many rises and falls I have been attempting to elucidate,
1 Swami Vivekananda: Inspired Talks, p. 85. 2 Ekkehard, Vol. I, p. 3
JESUS, SON OF MAN
there lies something much deeper than mere logic, something
more like a faith, and if my readers now share it with me,
and thereby enter into the swing of the world rhythm, this is
already one small step towards the goal of the unity of mankind.
I have attempted to play a fugue with worlds for notes, as
simply as I could, so that all might hear and understand, and
throughout its course I have tried to keep the great dominant
tones of the main theme ringing out in an unbroken rhythm,
and if I have succeeded in my object, all should now feel them-
selves advancing and retiring in a measure, that is accom-
plishing the ebb and flow of the universe: a rhythmic
scattering and decrease of stars and atomic systems, and a
rise and concentration of life into mind-energy, and eventual
All-unity.
I have sometimes watched the swell on the face of the ocean,
as it rose and fell in a great calm sweep of motion, until the
fascination of it has hypnotised me, and with some inner eye
I perceive the rise and fall in the universe sweep onwards
with just such a serene motion : nothing hurried, nothing
violent, just up and down, being-not being; waves of life, of
light, of matter, of human experience, waves of stars and
ether, finally waves of mind and soul, one and all striving on-
wards to a point beyond their own individual fulfilment, till
some day all will break on the beach of God. And if my
reader is now able to feel his life, not as· that of a mere
individual, gifted perhaps with an immortal soul, but as part
of a vast breathing system in which any individual existence
is but a vibration, a ripple on the surface of a wave; if he
can arrive at a synthetic vision of himself, .his people, his
nation and his world as being one vast stage on the way to
fulfilment-for I do not believe that any permanent retro-
gression is possible-then he must witness everything in his
experience from that point of view, and nothing will ever
distress him more.
Knowing this, man will make it his task to labour, "not
for the meat that perisheth, but for that meat which shall
endure unto everlasting life," which he can only succeed in
doing by working " one pointedly " as the Bhagavad Gita says,
without attachment to results, making himself fully aware
of and responsible for his every action before that measure of
eternity within. The goal once perceived can never be forgotten,
and if de-materialisation be the way, then let us aim in all we
do at detachment from the physical world and realisation of
the mind-soul. Atomic output of matter, living intake of spirit,
266 THE WORLD BREATH
that is God's way, and we, minute sperma though we be, carry
the seed of a growth that shall some day reach the sky. What
mad presumption, some will say, but does not this idea conform
to all the laws of Nature? Does not the tallest tree have to
contract itself into a tiny seed before it can live again in
another? Largest to minutest, minutest to largest, these are
the waves on Nature's ocean. The universe, obeying the same
laws, has contracted itself down to the germ of conscious
mind, planted in the brain of living men, which shall in time
grow into another universe as immense as the physical,
containing the substance of all the preceding worlds and
carrying it to rest in the Fullness of the One. 11
For He is
Ocean, birth-causing of gods, and birth-causing of men,-
flowing and ebbing for ever, now up, now down."1 .
Something within has always known these things, but we
have now at last attained sufficient enlightenment to draw this
knowledge from the hidden places of our minds, and place it
before us as a sign in the sky, which we must follow without
delay. It is easy to say, but apparently the most difficult
thing in the whole world to do, since only one or two have
ever succeeded, but I think we have misapplied what those
few have taught us, and therefore lost our way. We have con-
tinually gone outwards to look for Truth, whereas what comes
to us from without is of no use at all ; just as all defilement
comes from within, so also does all enlightenment. Live the
truth you have drawn from your own inner self. Read what
Jesus said, what Buddha said, or Plotinus, or Nietzsche even,
but then close the book and experience it, conquer every
inch of the ground by your own initiative, your own effort.
Delve down into yourself and let the fruit ripen from the core,
only thus can it be 11
made whole." The atheist may be follow-
ing this road as faithfully as the Pope in his Vatican, if he
lives up to his highest convictions unswervingly. 11
And your
highest hope be your highest idea of life," says Nietzsche,
the greatest atheist !
There is no escape, whether we wish it or no, we must all,
sooner or later, enter the kingdom that lies within. But I
think we have advanced one small step on the way, by realising
what was never understood before, namely, that this kingdom,
the Nirvana, is nothing more nor less than the next wave that
will carry the tide one step nearer the shore, the next heart-
beat in the Breath of God. And even though that future
1 Hippolitus: Philosophumena, T.G.H., Vol. I, p. 162.
JESUS, SON OF MAN
condition may be as unthinkable to us, as is the condition of
man to the amreba, still, we have the assurance of one who knew
it to encourage us on our way:" Wide open is the door of the
undying to all who are hearers ; let them send forth faith to
meet it."1
1 Mahavagga Sutta : Unde1' the Ajapala Banyan T1'ee.
CHAPTER IV
NE PLUS ULTRA
CREATION-process-reality, we have been watching
these move across and within the development of the
universe, here and now this ; there and then that ;
each stage arising from out of a previous one-and now our task
is almost finished. From ultra-galactic nebula to man there
was a ceaseless movement and change, a scattering, a dis-
semination; from man to beyond man there is still ceaseless
movement and change, but it is a reassembling, a concentration
of something a-material : from sensation to mind, from mind
to something we must imagine as "spirit-energy," it has
become a universe ever more ethereal. Further still it would be
impossible to prophesy, but we may be sure that whatever
follows, it will be ever more insubstantial, more pure from
physical dross, more imponderable, until it be at long last
reabsorbed into the Original One.
In all this motion we have been tracing, there has been but
one thing that has remained unaltered in its manifestations,
that, by the universality of its nature, has regulated and
systematised all things, and that is the Periodic Law. In the
beginning of this work, I proposed if possible to discover a law
that should dominate all the phenomena of the universe, and
unite both science and religion in one vast Whole, and if I have
succeeded in portraying the Law of Periodicity as I conceive it,
I think no one would deny that it does fulfil this role in the
world. If further my conception of this law be rightly under-
stood, and compared with the religious idea of God, I think that
very little difference will be found between the two : governing
as it does all motions, from those in the outermost heavens to
that of the smallest atom, I feel sure that this Greater Law
must eventually be recognised as the Power that carries
the un~verse on its shoulders. It is, like God, a universal forma-
tive principle, and who can attempt to decide what, in cosmic
phenomena, is due to creative Will, and what to the action of
268
NE PLUS ULTRA
automatic cause and effect, or to something as yet unknown, of
the nature of both ? But there can be no doubt that in so far
as the " Authentic Existence "-that which lies behind all
things and makes one harmony of both outgoing and in-
gathering-is concerned, It is not confined to any particular
state, either mental or material.
In relation to that Existence, what then might be the
reason for that Periodic Law, for that output and intake
which it has described, why ·should such a motion ever
have been started? In India this problem has been an object
of speculation since the earliest times, and the wisest men of
that land have attempted to answer it by describing it as the
"Dance of Shiva," the creator and destroyer, (which in their
conception is the aspect of the Authentic Existence known in
this universe, an aspect also periodic!), in which Dance, all
events since the beginning, are but varying figures. God says
to the hero, Arjuna, in the Bhagavad Gita: "There is nothing
in the three worlds, 0 Partha, that should be done by Me nor
anything unattained that might be attained ; yet I mingle in
action. For if I mingled not ever in action, unwearied, men all
around would follow My path, 0 Son of Pritha. These worlds
would fall to ruin if I did not perform action.''1 It is an amazing
thing to discover that this idea of a dance, a perpetual, rhythmic
motion, is corroborated to-day by modem science, for we now
know that there is nothing from stars to atoms t'hat could exist
without some form of motion. We are surrounded by photons
of radiation, eternally moving in rhythmic waves, whether
visible ·or invisible : from those things we can only see with
our largest telescopes, down· to the table I sit at, we could not
apprehend any one of them but for the continuous action and
interaction of their molecules. There is nowhere any dead mass
left: as Professor Lindemann says: "We have seen that the
concept of a solid body in the philosophical sense has little
relation to reality. A solid consists of a number of particles
linked together by some influence or force, which maintains
them in near positions relative to one another. But even at
the absolute zero these particles are not at rest." 2 And it seems
that the very life of the universe depends on this fact, as the
~ author of the Bhagavad Gita truly foresaw. Further, there
can be no doubt that if all this activity were suddenly to cease,
the world would " fall to ruin " ; this is one of those· truths
inherent in the very structure of ·our world, lying behind all
1 Yoga, III, vv. 22, 23, 24.
a Physiaal Signi.fiaanae of the Quantum Theory, p. So.
270 THE WORLD BREATH
physical veils, and which the discerning eyes of the wise must
recognise at all times and in all places.
But these facts raise another question : why should this
universal activity be necessary for the manifestationof creation ;
surely a power that is all-embracing, and not restricted to the
nature of u Thing," cannot need such activity? To this it
seems to me there is but one reply: if the One is infinite, all-
embracing, all-containing, universal, if there be nothing that is
apart from that One., nothing outside it, then surely motion
must be a part of It as well as immobility, things, life, man,
whatever they may be in ·their ultimate aspect, must, in
every form of their manifestation, be a part of It, and if motion
be that which gives them the character they have, then is it
part of the nature of the Whole. A mountain would cease to be
a mountain if it were merely the potentiality of a mountain,
the picture of a mountain in a man's mind, or a bit of its rocky
peak, or a bush on the hill-side, or a rolling stone. No, the
mountain must be all and every one of these things and more :
in its structure, every stone, every boulder, every tree, the
smallest wild flower, all contribute to the whole ; and if in the
One there were not every form, and every possible variation of
form and non-form, it would cease to be either the One or
perfect. It needs not alone men and trees, birds, diamonds,
gases, electro-magnetic waves, thoughts and deeds, niusic
and the child's laugh, but equally the infinite variations of all
these things; ''the hairs of your head are all numpered ''
is not a metaphor, but the absolute truth. If there' were a
sparrow with a thousand feathers, but one with one thousand
and one could never exist ; if there were men with one hundred
thousand hairs on their heads, but never any with one hundred
thousand and one, the One would be imperfect.( Every possi-
bility, every potentiality must live itself out both as idea
and as realisation, anything else would imply a restriction of the
One') To this it may be replied: if this be so, then, in this very
question of motion is the One limited, for if nothing can exist
that is not in motion, 'is immobility not of the nature of that
One ? And here again, without any warning, we run up against
the Law of Periodicity~ Is it not conceivable that all periods are
but images of the essence of the prototype of all things, and that
even the nature of "God" manifests in periods? We are
(or rather our universe is) in the motion period, may it not be
possible, that when the last intake of God's breath has occurred,
there will follow the period of rest? Eastern mystics always
speak of the" day and the night of Brahm," and if is perfectly
NE PLUS ULTRA 27I
conceivable that this aspect must also be inherent in the nature
of the One as are all other things.
Plotinus and Ekkehard, two of the greatest of all mystics,
express this idea in words which seem to me of the very sub-
stance of it, and beyond which I do not think it is at present
possible to go : u The Divine remaips in its own unchanging
being, but from its perfection and from the Act included in its
·nature, there emanates the secondary or issuing Act~ which-
as the output of a mighty power, the mightiest there is-attains
to Real Being as second to that which stands above all Being.
That transcendant was the potentiality of the All ; this
secondary is the All made actual."1 And, to show that this
Truth remains the same for all time, when we turn to Ekkehard
we discover the identical idea, a thousand years have not
altered it, Christian or Pagan foundations make no difference:
u The eternal emanation is in itself the manifestation of God in
pure apperception; wherein the Perceiver is that perceived."2
And beyond this, we now know that the Law of Periodicity
requires that following upon the u issuing Act," the u emana-
tion," there must come an entering or immanating act. But,
my reader will here object, cannot That u which stands above
all Being " dispense with the necessity of periodicity ? Let us
cast our minds back for a moment and remember how that
the microcosmos was in every detail but the image of
the macrocosmos, how that both acted alike and conformed
to the same laws, and finally consider that if all this be
but the nature of the'' All mad~ actual,'' then is man also part
of that nature, his wave of being is but part of the externalisa-
tion of the " Divine." As above, so below-that is universal
Troth.
Should we not therefore be justified in thinking that the
phenomena app~e-hended by the conscious mind, conform to
some pre-existent image within its own structure, that it
does not create, but .re-cognises ? If we regard the mind
and everything else in the universe as part of the great
Breath of God, then must all within that Breath possess the
characteristics of that from which it came and to which it will
return-and the Law of Periodicity is not necessarily carried on
into the One, but because of being inherent in the primal nature
of the Source, itflows into that from which it is derived.
Last of all we must ask ourselves : if·such a vast period as
this great Breath of God, this terrific tide in the ocean of One-
ness, that starts with the primal nebula, and ends with a
1 Ennead, V, 4• 2. a Of Two Paths, Vol. I, p. 125. /
272 THE WORLD BREATH
reabsorbtion into the One, be inherent in the nature of that One,
what does it contribute to that nature, why should such a thing
be necessary to It ? Let us consider for a moment what the
value of one output and intake of breath may be to the life of
man ? In itselfit is very little, but as a link in a chain that makes
up existence, it is all important. Likewise for the Authentic
Principle, the whole period of exhalation, and. inhalation, of
cosmic ebb and flow, has something of the same value
perhaps, except that we cannot but think that the One, being
perfect always, cannot be any the better or worse for what
It takes in or puts forth. The only logical explanation would
be that: as It must contain all things within Itself, so also
outflow and intake with all their attendant consequences ;
but in this case they do not, as with living things, alter the
composition of the Whole, but just form part of the eternal IS.
That is the reply which my reason demands, but as mystic,
I feel there is something more. I cannot refrain from the
conviction that this periodic exhaling and inhaling makes up the
eternal Life of the ALL-ONE, is Its very Life, as it makes the life
of all things created in Its image, be they·organic or inorganic;
I believe that all and everything lives by periods because the
Prototype is periodic. And I believe that It renews Itself by
very reason of its emanation ·and immanation; Its emanated
material-energy does, on its ·long way,· dissolve and purify
Itself for ultimate reabsorbtion as spirit-energy into the One;-
although I must not be misunderstood in this. It is not the
One Itself that goes through such a process of purification,
but that which It throws out, and I do not even mean" puri-
fication , in the sense of bettering, but of subtilisation if I
may use such a word. The One is also not any greater or less,
not any better or worse by what It puts out or what returns to
It, It forever remains the same; only perhaps, if there were no
alternate periods of action and inaction in Its nature, there
would neither be an Authentic Existence, nor anything else.
What then is the nature of that Authentic Existence, wherein
all periods find ultimate consummation, how may we "authenti-
cate,, It? Here, it is only possible to proceed by a process of
induction ; no man but one has ever attempted to describe that
nature: uno one is good but God alone," that is our only
positive knowledge. But if on the other hand we can obtain
an understanding of what It is not, we may perhaps approach
a little nearer to what It is. More than this cannot be asked in
our present condition, the few who have known something more,
could never speak of it, we can only catch a reflection of a
NE PLUS ULTRA 273
supreme experience shining through all their subsequent words
and deeds.
I can only hope to make this, the greatest of mysteries,
comprehensible to my readers, by an illustration drawn from
the conditions of our apprehension of the world around us:
starting by the understandable to reach the indescribable. If
we consider the circumstances which rule our perceptions of all
manifestation, we must realise that the position of anything
in our minds is ruled by the primal concept : is or is not ; all
that is, takes shape by reason of that which is not it, around it.
In short, we distinguish what is one thing and not another,
not because each is something in itself, but because it is de-
limited by all the are nots outside it. If I could see all precisely
alike, there would be no.separate identity left. To :inake myself
clear : I desire something I have not got, the object of my desire
is in itself no more desirable than is any other thing, it would
cease to be an object worthy· of desire if my desire ceased
to lift it out of its framework, and give it distinction. My
recognition of anything encloses it in the space-time frame-
work : China might be the whole universe, but directly I think
it, I limit it to one particular moment of time and space. My
mind is incapable of thinking a China stretching back into an
indefinite past, all the Chinese that have ever lived on that
spot of earth during all the centuries, all the land that goes
under the name· of China, all its houses, works of art, animals,
customs, religions, in one vast whole ; I can only pick out one
thing at a time, and, while thinking that, China to my mind
is not all the oth~r thlngs. I circumscribe it into one particular
form of space-time, by the act of thinking about it, and what
IS China in my inind is created by the millions of other things
which nw-mind rejects.
This same'rule holds good with regard to anything we think
or feel: if I enjoy one thing, this enjoyment excludes all other
possible joys ; even those much greater than that which I
experience at the moment, cease for the time being to have
any greater significance for me, than pain would have. If I
commit sin, in itself it may be nothing good or bad, but in so
far as it is not virtue, it becomes sin. And so it is throughout
our lives: .each thought, each conception, each act, becomes
something in just so far as it ceases to be all the other things,
and thus has been built up our world of what the Indians call :
"nama rupa," name and form-the illusion of distinction,
But, if we take these Indian terms for· individuality, and
examine them carefully, we must realise, firstly, that form is
s
274 THE WORLD BREATH
but a condensation of molecules, the same as those that make
the air around us, the dog or the chair, a whirlpool in the
great stream of existence, let us say. If we could cease to
see our individual whirlpool, but acquire the sensation of
universal, equal molecules, this form that is must merge into
a homogeneous entity with all that formerly it was not. There
would cease to be any individual formations, but just some-
thing like the passing clouds in the sky, as evanescent, as
insubstantial, as undefined as they prove to be when we fly
through them or examine them under a microscope, if this
were possible !
And what of name? Name represents the living, thinking,
individual whirlpool-nameless, we become undistinguishable
from any other form-free of individuality. All religious orders,
of whatever denomination, have understood this, and at the
entrance to the monastic life every man or woman loses his
or her name. They have evidently failed to grasp the real
significance of this act, however, for they have assumed another
name instead, thus re-establishing an individuality, and again
losing the freedom they had gained. This question of name
seems a very small thing, paltry even when measured by the
end in view. But has anyone ever stopped to consider what he
would be without any name of any sort, if, from the earliest
age, no call of "Mary,, or "John,, had conveyed the sense:
this is I ; if, in later years, one had entered a world far from that
where one was known and personified, without name, without
any characteristics-beyond those of one's appearance-by
which one's personal individuality could become known; if
one had become merged in a crowd of nameless ones, one of
them, nothing else, possessing nothing but one's shirt, and
the few crumbs of one's daily bread, asking for no place,
no position, no possession-what would one's sensations be
like? I know, because I have dreamt myself in such a condi-
tion: I have wandered amongst the hills, through the com-
fields, amongst simple folk in the vi_llages, without a name,
and I have woken up with a feeling of immense freedom, of
elation, of joy; I had lost what tied me to all the conditions
that made up my life as a separate individual ; I was no more
either Beckett, or L-- or C--. I was just part of the world
around me, just a living, sentient, sensitive atom in the vast
universe, conscious only of boundlessness, of impersonality,
of unattachment. That, I feel sure, is the beginning of the
way, that is where: is and is not, cease completely as far as
personality is concerned.
NE PLUS ULTRA 275
And what applies to man, applies a thousandfold more to
God. So far, throughout the history of man, God has, with
very few exceptions, been classified by the same means as those
that have made up this name and form world; when conceived
as the loving Father, He was not the beloved child; if He was
the God that punished unto the third and fourth generation,
He could not be one capable of going out to meet the prodigal,
"while he is yet a long way off"; if He was the creator, He
could not at the same time be the destroyer in our minds,
hence arose the idea that wickedness shut man out from God's
presence, limiting not man but the" Almighty I" In all these
ways have we excluded a so-called "absolute Power" from
any absolute Be-ing, and limited It to some portion of our space-
time conception. Not only this, but whatever is in our minds
becomes cut out of the universal Oneness, by a beginning and
an ending: pain ceases where pleasure begins, if an evil is
proved to be a blessing it ceases to be an evil, and even though
a creator may create by destroying, the fall of the leaf cannot
synchronise with the blossom on the same tree ; with the cry
of the child, the mother's pain turns to joy-and so also is it
in relation to our creation of God: whatever we assert of Him
must be in the nature of every other assertion we make,
namely, subject to beginning and end, never infinite. And I
say" our creation of God" advisedly, because God so far has
shared the fate of all the other aspects of the world that our
minds create: in picking it up, our minds in some way create
this God-existence by a form of segregation.
Let us consider a mirror for a moment ; it is certain that what
I see in it is not what the person opposite me sees there, but
to each his aspect is the real content of the mirror. And if we
stop to think about it our minds must know that both these
aspects are in it simultaneously, and that it is only our indi-
vidual point of view that excludes one half in accepting the
other. If our minds could, in like manner, realise a simultaneous
knowledge of everything in the entire universe, throughout
all ages, without distinction of here or there, great or small,
past or present, beginning or ending, love unbounded by any
non-love ; enter a condition of existence in which all differentia-
tion merged into one, as are all things in a mirror even though
we only perceive a part of it, then would we begin to obtain a
God-vision.
But so long as there is the slightest effort at differentiation
left in our minds, even if it be only" God is Love," we are still
as far as ever from an understanding of the One-All, for we
THE WORLD BREATH
cannot conceive even love without its relation to something.
Even if we regard it as universal, if we go beyond man, beyond
all living things, and see the attraction between crystals,
between magnet and magnetised, the gravitational pull between
worlds, as love, we are still bound to phenomenal events. God
as love is the greatest,· most all-embracing conception we can
have of the Deity, but it is still a conception wherein there is
a definite difference : God is love but God is not non-love.
If God were love, and love were God, where there were no
receiver of love, there would He cease to be.
When our minds can perceive this, or even conceive an Idea
that fills everything and no-thing, because it is the very
principle To BE; which stops neither at the doors of vice or
pain or ending, nor at the limits of erg-sees; which likewise
does not start with virtue or beauty, or ether, or space-time
(or any other) dimensions; an Idea which does not manifest
itself on the tablets of Moses any more than in the voice of the
nightingale ; in short, were we able to conceive an Idea un-
related to any event, undefined by examples, everywhere
unchangeable, then might we attain to a realisation of Being-
Being-as-such, without place or time. Who and how, where
andwhen, belong to theworld of differentiations, are the rise and
fall of some tide, and as such are they of importance ; but as
soon as we cease to register any correlation, and aim at reaching
the One-All, they must disappear, together with all other terms
of appearance. Behind all that IS, there is THAT-WHICH-IS-
NOT-THIS. When THIS ceases to be for us, then opens THAT
which is in Itself, .·but is not confined within the space-time
boundaries, which condition everything of which our limited
perceptions can assert IT IS.
Ekkehard says: "Thou shalt know Him without images,
without intermediary, without semblance."-" If I am to
know God thus without intermediary, then must I even become
He and He I.''-" But that is exactly what I mean ! God must
even become I and I even become God; so entirely one, that
this He and this I are one is, and remain so, and-as pure
Being itself-work one work in all eternity ! For, so long as
this He and this I, or God and the Soul, are not one single
Here! one single Now! so long can the I never co-operate
with, still less become one with the He."1
I have now reached the end of my task, I have tried to allow
reason and logic to govern all I have said ~hus far, and I feel
1 On B~ing Renewed in Spi~i#, Vol I, p. 167.
NE PLUS ULTRA 277
the circle is complete, and we have reached the place where
all thought, all laws must cease. If my reader does not care
for mere speculation, let him now lay down this book, to read
the rest is unnecessary, unless it may interest him to see what
the personal belief might be which has guided me throughout
this work and been my inspiration. What follows is my own
personal act of faith, and need not necessarily be another's,
let that be as it may.
No one could be more conscious than I am of the complete
inadequacy of the few lines with which I have attempted to
portray That into which the great cosmic Breath has been
absorbed at last. But any words dealing with that subject
can only be in the nature of a call from one soul to another who
realises the same things, they can never hope to teach the Ulti-
mate to those who do not know something already. "The
soul (Atman) is not to be obtained by instruction, nor by
intellect, nor by much learning, He is to be obtained only by
the one whom He chooses,"1 to him that hath shall be given,
and he may hope to sever himselfat last from the physical plane,
and enter that condition where man no more exists as man,
nor as " anything of which it can be said : it exists or it exists
not."
But, until that moment is reached, what happens to each
individual on his course from this, his human stage, to the
next ? Every religion on earth has its own solution to this
problem, and it might almost be said that it is this that dis-
tinguishes religion from philosophy. Millions of people in this
world live their lives governed by the hope or fear of what may
happen after death. But having realised that life and death
are mere periods in the law of existence, and as such are no
more important than are day and night, what, if anything,
occurs when we leave this, our present life period behind?
We have seen that it is the mind that has raised lis up out of the
control of entropy, and built up a structure continually increas-
ing in the unity of its collectivity. By mind increase we have
slowly risen from amceba to man, but what happens then ? Is
our individual life but a passing shadow upon the waters, noth-
ing remaining of what we are, to carry on the wave, except what
is carried on by our children ? A great number of people would
answer : yes, to that question ; many others would say : no, we
go to Heaven or some kind of Elysian Fields-(or to Hell as the
case may be!). Perhaps the greatest number of people to-day
would admit· that reincarnation of some kind seems the most
1 Katha Up., 2, 23.
THE WORLD BREATH
acceptable solution of the problem, and to that number I
belong.
But here I wish to make myself understood unequivocally,
for it is essential to all I have said ; I do not mean a trans-
migration of souls when I use the word "reincarnation." As
energy is taken up in quanta by the atom, so I believe our
bodies (or those of our parents at conception, it is immaterial
which) are tuned to catch a certain quantum of an energy so
far not identifiable by scientific means. When that energy
has done its work in this individual body-both the inner work
on itself, and the outer work that must be accomplished by this
exemplar of world phenomena-then is it released by the body,
and what we call " death "inevitably and automatically occurs;
matter releases spirit as the atom releases its wave of radiation,
when the electrons have spread to the outermost circles possible
to that particular atom. This life's materials then fall back
into themselves until they catch another quantum, whilst the
wave of what we may call "spirit energy" that was released,
goes travelling forward-not as an identity of any sort, but as
something which is most nearly described as a " potentiality "
-until it is caught up once more, next year, or in a thousand
years, by living atoms possessing the requisite gravitational
power, and being in the proper state of "ionisation" to
receive it. I well know the chief objection that is always
raised when this matter is spoken of, namely : " I have
no wish to lose my identity, to say I go on in such form
as you describe is tantamount to telling me that there is
nothing at all after death." But that is another point
about this theory : we shall retain our identity in the form of
being our own causes and effects, so long as we do not will
ourselves free of it. Therefore, if we wish to remain as we are,
we undoubtedly may cause ourselves to do so. This idea
belongs to a complete system, however, which I cannot go into
here, but I think I have said enough in ~orne of the preceding
chapters to make it clear that we ourselves are responsible for
building the way we wish to go. When we shall have fully
realised our own responsibility in this matter, and that the goal
is ever there, one and the same, to be att-ained by our own
efforts, this prospect will lose all its terrors for us.
In India, ideas of reincarnation are always bound up with
the Law of Karma (the automatic action of cause and effect),
which acts through as many lives as are necessary to exhaust all
the effects of all the causes to which man has given rise, through-
out the course of such lives. And these two ideas are necessarily
NE PLUS ULTRA 279
corelated, for unless one were prepared to accept the doctrine
·of " grace " which is inextricably bound up with the idea of
a personal God, it would be difficult to imagine how we could
free ourselves of all the construction which centuries have built
into man, and to which we continue to add bricks every day
of our lives, in the course of one short period, not even one
fulllife,of right understanding. It would seem to be impossible
that the sense of individuality inherent inthe nature of mankind
could suddenly end in one short existence, without long prepara-
tion beforehand for such a transformation. And I do not
deny that I believe such preparation does take place in most
cases : I believe, for instance, that, not having yet attained
final enlightenment, whatever wisdom I have achieved in
either philosophy or metaphysics in this life will accrue to
the benefit of the future being which will have caught up my
" energy " ; I believe that I am now reaping the fruits that my
energy had collected in its development in other lives ; I, for
instance, should probably never have thought of the Law of
Periodicity, had not my mind been imbued with a spirit already
trained and directed towards trans-substantial affairs ! It is
undoubtedly very rare that a sudden enlightenment, coupled
with complete freedom from attachment to life, breaks in upon
any man. Indians would say that St. Paul had gone through
many lives of preparation before he trod the road to Damascus ;
waves of spirit-energy, like waves of light, are a long way on the
road of matter before they attain freedom.
But this does not mean that such waves cannot escape
suddenly, however rare such an occurrence may be. There is
no reason why, if there be a one and only Truth, realisation of
it should not burst open the gates of the soul in one flashing
moment. Jesus was obviously of that opinion; what other
reason could He have had for assuring the thief on the Cross
who saw Truth in the last hour of his life, that he would reach
the Kingdom that very day? At such a moment he could
not have gone against his innermost conviction. Another
proof of the same idea is the parable of the householder, who
went out in the morning to hire labourers for his vineyard,
agreeing to give every man a penny, and who gave the same
penny to the last-comers, who had laboured but an hour, as
he did to those who had sweated through the heat of the_ day.
Clearly the truth realised in one hour is the same as that which
is the fruit of the labour of many lives, and if in his eyes the
11
Kingdom of Heaven '' was a condition, some might 11
be
accounted worthy to attain it" without dying "any more."
280 THE WORLD BREATH
But at the same time, these last words prove that He knew
that some must die some more times, must, like Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, go on living, and "come again" like Elias,
until they are ready, as the Indians also believe.
It seems to me that there is only one conclusion to be
drawn from all these facts: taken in conjunction, both Indian
and Christian ideas show that behind everything there is a
condition which never alters, it is only those who seek it that
are different, and discover it by different means. Therefore
are reincarnation and what Christians call "grace," merely
two coefficient experiences, and manifest so completely logical
a scheme of things that it is surprising that men have quarrelled
for so long over the respective validity of one idea or the other.
To my way of thinking, it is not a question of "either-or,"
but quite simply of two phases of one thing : we have the
reincarnating mind, which pursues itspathbydegrees, achieving
greater and greater enlightenment, but which until it has
completely freed itself from attachment to the conditions of
this world, still creates cause and effect. On the other hand, '
as the supreme Truth is ever here, around us, in us, it is equally
possible that the inner eye might suddenly open, and in one
hour, one moment, enlightenment be attained. It all depends
on how strong be the will to accomplishment. If, as the
Indians say, a man longs for God as does the drowning man for
the saving hand, then must his will to reach Him abolish
everything that stands in the way and open the gates for him
to enter immediately into the great One. If, on the other hand,
he takes things easily, the path thereto can be prolonged
indefinitely, until the necess~y rise of a new periodic wave
drives him into something else, or leaves him behind like the
ashes of stars and universes.
But although ultimately final liberation be but one, there
are as many roads that lead up to that end as there are men,
and I feel certain that every man o:ri ev~ry road is invaluable
to the scheme of the whole, even though he only be one of the
millions of leaves that fall to the ground and-fertilise the soil
out of which shall grow the young oak. Nature sets no store
by individuals, for her the fertiliser is as vital a necessity
as the sprouting seed, none could exist without the other.
But we men have attained a conscious will, and, even though
evolution may have achieved much by the chance survival of
the fittest, we now possess the power to shape our course, and
Man, by his own volition and perseverance, may cause the
acorn to result in a tree whose branches shall reach the sky in
NE PLUS ULTRA
another 300,000 years; or he may leave it to Life to work
itself out in another 2000 million. Possessing now the power
of choice, the next step rests with us : " If I had not come and
spoken to them they had not had sin; but now they have no
cloak for their sin.,,1
And these human beings that rise and fall over the surface
of the world sea, in a continuous forward motion, what
might they be like from a God's point of view?. Seeing
that everything material belongs to the great ebb of the
vastest of all tides, and that what rises up out of it to flow
towards the shore is but the second indrawing period of the same
movement, and that all the infinite variety of events within this
movement are but incidental to the great state of Be-ing, of
which this tide is but one breath, might we not perhaps be so
bold as to suggest that all the waves, rising and falling on the
surface of this vast ebb and flow, might be thoughts floating
across the surface of the mind of the Creator ? One such idea
might run through many centuries of earth-life; another idea
may be burning away through billions of years in the firma-
ment; whilst yet another may play itself out in the wave of
a human life !
But, whether we regard all the contents of the Universe as
such ideas in the mind of God, or whether they seem mere
drops in the ocean of time, there is no doubt that one and all
are inexorably caught in the meshes of the World Breath,
which is sweeping all things with it on its way back to the
heart of the Supreme.
1 John XV, 22.
EPILOGUE
F
ROM a rock, twelve hundred feet above a southern sea,
I was once watching a waterspout driving over the
face of the ocean-what was it, what did it suggest ?
Up at the top it was just a cloud-bank, nothing in itself,
ephemeral, possessing no absolute reality. But as it spiralled
downwards, it concentrated more and inore, until just as it
reached the point at which the nucleus might have, been it
melted into the infinite sea below. And I knew it was not just
water falling down from above, but that it was power being
drawn upwards and outwards from something that, to my gaze,
was infinite, and on the face of which the waterspout was but a
mere trifle. ,
Such is the nature of all I have been attempting to describe:
the diffused vapour which took on in my eyes the definite
shape, was yet something which had been the ocean, and
even though an insubstantial image thereof, it retained in its
fabric something of the Reality below. But when the water-
spout ceases, that which had risen up sinks back into the
Oneness from which it arose. And this was not before more
empty, nor yet is it now more full. And the clouds disperse to
nothingness.
INDEX
Abelard, 207
Adam, r8, 258
A
Acts of John, Apocryphal, N.T., ·
140, 143-4. 261
Agni, 137-8
Alexander, Pro~essor, Space. Time
and Deity, r82
Algol, 102
Allah, ri3
Amreba, 23, 123, 132, 150
Andrade, E. N. da. C., 142
Antares, 103
Aphrodite, 139, 246
As above so below, 29, 271
Asia, 61, So
Astronomy, 86, 102, rg6
Atoms, 35, 40, 41, 52, 56, 58-g,
63-4,87, ro6,rr5, 126
Augustus, Emperor, 72, 77
B
Bach, J. S., i72, 214
Bacteria, u6 et seq;, II9, 122, 127
et seq., 183
Bergson, Henri, Creative Evolu-
tion, 124, 145
Bhagavad Gita, 269
Biology, 121, 127, 129, 149, 183,
196
Book of the Dead, 94, 140, 146
Bolsheviks, 262
Bose, Sir Jagadis Chandra, 19
Brahma, 85
Brain, 151 et seq.
Breath, 51, 94, no et seq., 134, r6r,
173, 277
Breath of God, 86, 91, 92, 93, 96,
108, rag, 112, 120, 134, 162,
267,271
Of Life, 30, 31
The World, r6r, 226,258,260
British Empire, 76, 79
Brown, Dr. William, 204, 221, 227
Buddha, the, 16, 20, 55, 154, 168,
194, 199, 205, 208, 228, 244, 250,
264. 266
Buddhi, 157
Bumouf, Science des Religions,
139
c
Ccesar, Julius, 71 ff, 228
Catalyser, 123
Cepheid variables, 104, 109
China, 70
Chlorophyll, 121, 124, 149
Christianity, 6o, 79, 240, 244, 262
Christians, 15, 280
Chromatin, 128 et seq.
Chuang-Tsu, 2II
Clayton, P. B., 248
Crelenterates, 183 et seq.
Complex, 163, 164
Condensations,98, ror, 113
Constant, the, 27, 29,88,91,99
Cross, the, Part II, Chap. III, 251
D
Dance of Shiva, 269
Dante, Alighieri, 199, 214
Death, 57 et seq.
De Sitter, 8g
Deus ex machina, 15, 199
Dhamma-pada, 217
Dictator, 72
Dnyaneshvari, 212
Dunne, J. W., Experiment
Time, r86 et seq.
with
283
INDEX
E
Eddington, Sir Arthur, 14, 36, 40,
44· 45· 53. 63, 88, 8g, 92, 95. g6,
ro6, 113, 117, 151, 178, I9I, 19~
199, 205, 248
Egypt, 6I, 70, I39
Einstein, I5, 27, 87 et seq., 95,
98 et seq., Igo, I99, 228, 237
Eisler, Dr. R., Wine Symbolism in
the Last Supper, 254-5-6
Ekkehard, Master, 194, 263, 264
271, 276
Electrons, 39 et seq., 95, 96, ro6,
II3, 225
Encyclopedia BYitannica, 70
Energy, 30, 39, 42, 52, 53, 87, 97,
Io6, rog, II2, II8, I2o, I25,
I33. ISO, I64
England, 70, 8r
Entropy, 22, 59, 74, 8o, 87, 108,
IIO, II2 et seq., II8 et seq., 127,
I3I, 133, 174, I92
Ether, go ; waves of, 40, 63
Euglena, 219
Everest, Mount, 2I, 244
Evolution, 123, 129, I3I, 134 ff,
I5I
Expression points, 129-30
Extyasensory PeYception, by J. B.
Rhine, I6r
F
Francis of Assisi, St., 17, 247, 263
Freud, Sigmund, 158 et seq.
Freundlich, Einstein's theory of
Gravitation, g6
FitzGerald, Igo
G
Galactic system, 64, I I3, 124
Gershwin, I72
Gilgamesch epic, I32
Glycogene, I5o, I75
Gnosis, Echoes from the, I43
Gnosis ofLight, r4r et seq.
Gnostics, I6, 140
Gnostisclie SchYiften a. d. Codex
BYucianus, 146
God, 15, I8, 2I, 22, IIO, 153, r6r,
176, I97, 264, 266, 268, 275-6,
280
Golgotha, r76
Gospel according to the Hebrews,
239
Gravitation, Ig, 22, g8 et seq., I I2
Great Britain, 70, 8o, 8r
Greece, 75, 139
Greeks, 197
Guenon, Rene, Man and His
Becoming, 158, 232
H
Haldane, J. S., 127, I96
Hale, George Ellery, ro2
Heat, 97, ro6 et seq.
Heaven, 23
Helium, 95 ff
Henderson, Professor, Spiyit in
Evolution, 119
Hesse, Hermann, SiddhaYtha, 21
Hindus, r6, 23
Homo sapiens, r6, 64, I24
Hyppolitus, The Philosophumena,
142, 266
I
India, so, 54,139,178,269
Indians, 47, 51, 62, 22I
Isaiah, 255
Islam, 6o
Israel, 139, 254
J
Japan, 16, 8o
Jeans, Sir James, 39, 48, 61, 64,
86, 88, 98, I03, 107, II4-15,
I20, I24, 156
Jesus Christ, rs, r6, r8, 2o, 51, 55,
56, 154, I68, 194, 205, 209, 2IO,
213,222,228,230,237.264,266
Jews, 246, 255
Jung, C. G., 141, r6o et seq., rgg,
203, 2~5. 207, 210~214, 248
Jones, Henry Stuart, 70
INDEX
Kabbalah, 140
Kabbalists, 16
K
Kant, Immanuel, 28, 228
Karma, 62, 207, 279
Kingdom of Heaven, r8, r68, 172,
209, 2!3, 235. 245· 249 ff, 280
lGdshnamurti,248, 263
Krueger 6o, ro2
L
Lafcadio Hearn, 247
Lamas (Thibetan), 16, 200, 224
Lao-Tsu, 2II, 243. 250, 263
League of Nations, 195
Le Bon, Gustav, 95
Lemaitre, Abbe, 88, 89
Lewis, G. N., Anatomy of Science,
127
Libido, 159, 165
Life, 23, 30, 34, 59, 6o, IIg, 149,
173, 204, 242 et seq.; origins of,
II6 et seq., I2I et seq.~· radiation
of, 67
Lindemann, F. A., Physical Signi-
ficance of the Quantum Theory,
43, 185, rgo, 269
Lloyd Morgan, J., 127, rg6
"Ludovisi Throne," Rome, 147
Magic, 21, 22
Magna Charta, 70
Mahomet, 194, 228, 229, 239
Manu, Laws of, 85
Maya (illusion), 47, 178
Maya ruins, 139
Marconi, 15
Mead, G. R. S., 83, 144, 146
Messiah, 245, 254, 260
Metazoa, 128, 183
Middle Way, The, 20
Nrrtinda Panha, 152, 231
Mind, 125, 132, 133, 135, 148, I5I
et seq., 154, 157, 162, 164; 165,
171, I8I, !86, 193, Ig8, 202,
221 :ff, 227
Minkovsky, go, I8I, 192
Morison, Frank, Who Moved the
Stone?, 26o
Moses, 48, 229, 263
Mozart, 172
Music, 32, 45, 48
Mystics, 54
N
Napoleon, 17
Nebulre, 59, 6g, 79, 88, go, 93. 94
et seq., II4, 125, 132, 268
Newton, Sir Isaac, 120, 228
Nietzsche, Fr., rg8, .rgg, 238, 266
Nirvana, 205, 235, 250, 267
Nitrogen, I 15 ff, I2I 1
Nork, F., Rabbinische QueUen and
Paralellen .zum N.T., 254
0
Obelia, 150
Osborn, Henry Fairfield, Origin
and Evolution of Life, II6 et seq••
120, 128 et seq.
Osiris, 140, 146-7
Oxford Dictionary, 2I
Oxyrhynchus, Fragments from,
2!0, 214,222,245
p
Paleozoic era, 130
Paul, St., no, 245, 254. 279
Patanjali, Yoga Sutras, 213
Periodicity, Law of, 29, 30, 32, 35,
36, 4!-4, 47· 49. 56, 66, 6g, 8!,
86, 92, IOO, 109, !29, 132, 134,
136, 148, !72, 174· 225, 240,
264, 268, 27o-I
Photon, 39, 43, 73 ; " ofluck," 53
Physics, 18, 34, 45, 86, 92, n8,
127, 131, I5I
· Pineal gland, 130, 131-2
Planck, Max, 36, rgg,· 223 et seq.
Planets, 104 et seq.• II3
Plato, 28, 143
Plotinus, 25, 28, 173, 204, 212,
263, 266, 271
Pope, the, 266
Prana, 52, 55, 2II
Pranayama,.51
Proton, 35, 49, gr, 95 ff, I 13
Protoplasm, 121, 123, 128
Psyche, 141, r6o et seq. 193
Psycho-analysis, 158, r66
286 INDEX
Psychology, 19, 159, r6o, 162,
169, 176
Pulsations of stars, 104
Pythagoras, 45, 186
Q
Quantum, 22, 29, 36 et seq., 50, 56,
ss, 6r, 62, 177, 223
R
Radiation, 34, 41, 59, 61, 87, 91,
93, 107 ff, I 19
Radium, 42, sB, IOS, !07
Ramakrishna, Sri, 222
Reality, 19, 20, 151, 173, 176 :ff
Reincarnation, 62, 63, Iog, 279
Relativity, 19
Rhythm, 31, 56, 264, 265
Rishis, 16, 2II
Rome, 64, 70 et seq.
Roman Catholic Church, 158
Russell, Lord, A.B.C. of Atoms,
40,59
Rutherford, Lord, 35, 41, 97, 106,
259
s
Samadhi, 55, 250
Sankaracharya, 169
Science of Life, H. G. and G. P.
Wells, and Julian Huxley, 120
et seq., 133, 149, 150, 183 et seq.
Sen, Prof. K., go
Shakespeare, 17, 214
Shelley, 214
Sleep, 53 et seq.
Sokols (Czech), 22
Space-time, 53, go, 135, 182 et seq.,
200 :ff, 215; frame of space, 91,
I go
Stars, IOI et seq., II3 et seq., 129,
134
Binary, II7
Steiner, Rudolf, 222
Subconscious mind, 19, rs8, 16!,
I67, 178, 204, 2!0
Sun, the, IOI, ro6 et seq., II4, 125,
149
Swastika, 138
T
Tattoos, 22
Thermodynamical Equilibrium,
g6, !62
Thomson, J. J ., 40
Thrice Greatest Hermes, G. R. S.
Mead, 83, uo, 228
Truth, 17, 21, 29, 47, 86, 146, 165,
173,176,178, I9I,I93, 197,199,
229, 266, 279. 280
u
Unconscious, the, 162, 163 :ff, 214
Upanishads, The : Katha, 171,
209, 277 ; Maitri, 210 ; Man-
dukya, 210 ; Taitti-riya, 2II
Uranium, 58
v
Vedanta, 250 .
Versailles, 203
Vertebrates, 184
Vivekananda, Swami, 55, 264
w
Waves, 29, 30 :ff, 34, 37, 44-5, 50,
52, 54, 6I, 64-5, 67, 68, 79, 9I,
93, 95, 99, 103, I09, I20, 124,
133, 135, 148, I6I, I7I, 174,
2!9-20, 225, 239. 264, 265, 267
Whitehead, Alfred North, 196
White Dwarfs, 102, II4, 134, 171 ,
Wildon Carr, Prof., " Some Reflec-
tions on Cosmogony," J.P.S.,
Vol. IV, II5
Williams, J. E., In Search of
Reality, so
World-structute, 44
y
z
Zweig, Stefan, Mental ·Healers,
159 et seq.
