{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3388 5288 2979","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v6_25_october_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V6 October 25 1889","mylang":"de"}
358 .A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25•
III.
A REOORD OF TELEPATHIC AND OTHER EXPERIENOES.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
"A RBCORD OF RECENT EXPBRDlENTS IN CRYSTAL VISION."
[The writer of the following paper, who last year gave us the result of her
observations on Crystal Vision, still desires to maintain her anonymity for
reasons which appear to me to be adequate. On this account alone I think
it well to preface her paper by stating that she publishes this record of her
experiences at my request, and that I believe it to have been compoaed with
a scrupulous desire to avoid anything like exaggeration of the marvelloua
element in the experiences which it records.-H. SIDGWICK.]
Throughout the whole of my life I have, as I believe, possessed
some power of telepathic percipience, or susceptibility to the action of
other minds, and at the same time some power of influencing them in &
similar way. This power seems to me to be a thing quite apart, not
implying either any special strepgth of intellect or of will in its possessor,
and, at least in its present state of development, of very little practical
use. Nor did I know, until accident led to my becoming acquainted
with some of the work of the Society for Psychical Research in the
winter of 1887-88, that any scientific interest attached to the question.
Consequently I kept no proper record, and only occa.sionally made &
note in my diary when any very striking instance occurred. I think that
my susceptibility has on the whole become less acute since childhood,
but on the other hand I have, during the last few years, had the
advantage of the intimate friendship of a lady, here named D., between
whose mind and my own, telepathic communications have seemed to
occur with sufficient frequency to lead us to regard them as almost a
matter of course.
When, therefore, I was asked to furnish such a record as might be
useful in the discussion of telepathy, the most obvious thing seemed to
be, in the first place, to e:cperimene with D. in that definite manner,
with numbers, diagrams, «c., which is most in favour with the investi-
gators of the Society for Psychical Research; and, in the second place,
to keep note-books in which incidents which might possibly be telepathic,
should be recorded before the event had shown whether the supposed
thought-transference was a hit or a miss.
The note-books will be submitted to the reader's judgment at the
end of this paper. As regards my definite experiments on numbers,
&c., with D., I have simply to say that they hardly ever succeeded. A
few successes will be cited below; but in most cases these experiments
Digitized by Google
.'
1889.] and other Experience8:' ~59
....
'were failures, and were, moreover, felt by both of us to be such
while they were actually in progress. This is quite in harmony with
my experience as regards telepa.thic communications in general.
Whether referring to matters of interest and importance, or not, they
seem to belong to the spontaneous current of my being, and to be
incapable of being summoned by conscious effort. This is to be
regretted from a scientific point of view, but it is what I should have
expected from my knowledge of the way in which my own mind
works. To be able at a given moment to conjure up a strong excite-
ment, to create a powerful current of thought or feeling, is, no doubt, a
most valuable power, but it is one which I, unfortunately for such a
purpose, do not possess. My deficiency in this respect is brought home
to me by a trait with which I think some readers will sympathise. I
am extremely fond of music, and playing on the pianoforte has been,
from childhood, one of my greatest pleasures. But the accomplishment,
so far as its general application goes, seems to depend for its real value
-to myself certainly and, my friends tell me, to others as well-on the
conditions of its exercise. In the society of a few friends so intimate
that I can forget their presence in the room, or of real musicians
who themselves supply both incentive and support, my enjoyment in
the music is deep and real, and can reach to others; but if strangers
only are present, or if, from some adverse influence, the music is not the
expression of a spontaneous mood or desire, I feel the mere act of
playing to be a thing apart from myself, comparatively lifeless and
uninteresting-a. performance, in fact, and nothing more.
In giving accounts of some of my experiences, I shall resort to the
sort of classification I found convenient in my paper on Crystal Vision.
It is observable, however, that a larger proportion of the experiences
here recorded than of those in the crystal visions may be regarded as
telepathic, though in their main features the two types of hallucination
are closely parallel, and the analogy seems to afford a clue to their
explanation. As in the case of the crystal visions, it seems as if a good
many of the phenomena are to be regarded as messages sent from the
inner to the normal self. Such messages are sometimes, though very
rarely, fantastic. Sometimes they are revivals of memory, sometimes
advice founded, as it were, on a somewhat wider purview than my
ordinary senses comprehend I do not, of course, venture to compare
such warnings with the "divine sign" of Socrates, but Plutarch's
tradition as to the warning voice and the drove of pigs, quoted by Mr.
Myers in the last volume of the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research, is perhaps not too lofty a story to be referred to as a pretty
close parallel to the bulk of my own experiences.
To such monitions I have from a very early age been subject.~ne.
'which was recorded a.t the time by a member of the family, occurred
2 A 2
Digitized by Goo~
360 .A ReCO'1'd of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
when I was less than three years old. The note of the fact merely
mentions that I cried without reason, and afterwards asked if my
mother were ill, she being at the time about 150 miles away. It was
not till 20 years later that I ascertained that she was indeed taken
suddenly and very seriously ill on that day.
Sometimes, as in the case of acute antipathy, it may be supposed
that slight traits which escaped the conscious observation had never-
theless a powerful influence on the inner judgment. I can remember
two children at different times among my casual play-fellows, whose
neighbourhood, for no reason that I could assign, was to me always the
occasion of intense distress. Of their after history I know nothing,
but in other cases of my antipathy, quite a different sensation from
dislike based upon experience, my friends now agree that the instinct
was justified by subsequent events.
I can remember as a child of six, spending long lonely afternoons in
a hay-loft, as the only place where I was insured against the presence
()f a frequent visitor, whose advent was always hailed with delight by
the rest of the household, and who was ready to extend to me the gifts
and notice which the other children gladly accepted, but whose very
neighbourhood was a source of distress, amounting to physical misery
which at that period could only express itself in tears. A time came
when his name became, for very sufficient reasons, a forbidden word in
the family. One such example would prove nothing, but like experi-
ences extending over a life-time, incline me to think, though I say it
with diffidence and humility, that, from whatever cause, I may aspire
to some such power of discrimination as that possessed by my friend
the dog.
I add a more recent example. My friend, Mrs. T. (whose name
will appear again in this paper), had often spoken to me in terms of
aft'ection and admiration of her friend, Mrs. Z. All I knew of her
from other sources contributed to make me desire her acquaintance,
and I was disappointed that for some months I had no opportunity of
meeting her. One afternoon, calling on Mrs. T., I found myself in the
presence of a lady, of what most would consider attractive appear-
ance, but who instantly inspired me with a painful sensation, with the
meaning of which I am but too familiar, and who, to my surprise, was
introduced to me as Mrs. Z. I could not recover from the shock, and
left the room almost immediately.
Mrs. T. writes :-
.. JantuJry 17th [1888]•
.. You ask if I remember any example of your expressed antipathy 1 I do
distinctly, and at the time was surprised and did not think your dislike
reasonable, but since then have had cause to know that four feeling was per-
fectly justified."
___
DigilizedbyGo0..sle ---==
-
1889.] and other Experiences. 361
I should add that. the conduct which has afforded the alleged
justification was of a nature as to which there could be no difference of
opinion.
Sometimes, however, such monitions referred to facts of which I
could not possibly be aware, as for example ;-
When quite a child I was returning home from the classes I attended, and
by some accident was alone. On arriving at a certain point in my walk, a
very strong impression seized me that I must not return by the usual way,
and, accustomed to such directions, I turned into a very inferior street, which
was the more unpleasant to me in that, as I have said, I was, contrary to habit,
alone. I heard on the following morning that at the hour of my return a
man had committed suicide by throwing himself under the steam roller, and
that had I passed along my usual route, I must have been a spectator of
the horrible incident.
Many cases of monition, as, for instance, the being aware of the
approach of friends while still out of sight, or of their presence in a
crowd in which it is impossible that they should be distinguished, may,
perhaps, as in the case of antipathy, be referred to some slight circum-
stance which escapes one's conscious observation. As a child, I was
conscious of having, in certain cases, an advantage in games requiring
forethought, in that I could sometimes foresee my opponent's intentionsj
and I remember abandoning my favourite amusement of chess, on dis-
co,"ering that a schoolboy friend, who knew of my occasional power of
thought-reading, had, in this particular instance, observed to whom it
applied, and would bet upon my success, sometimes with players very
superior to myself.
Many cases also which are associated with someone with whom I am
en rapport, or who is thinking of me at the time, glide apparently into
telepathy, and the discovery of this fact makes a landmark in my
psychical recollections. It is, perhaps, not surprising that all reference
to experiences apparently supernormal should have been discouraged by
my friends, and that I should in consequence have come to regard them
as indicating a discreditable condition of things, to be minimised and
concealed as far as possible. However, when about 15 years old, it
happened that in a time of childish trouble in which I had no one to
share, my thoughts turned earnestly, though involuntarily, to an older
friend, then at a distance (of about 80 miles), who would, I thought,
have given me the sympathy and advice of which I stood in need.
'Vithin a few hours my friend arrived, having found it impossible to
resist a conviction, apparently causeless, that I was in need of help.
With, I think, more wisdom than was shown by others who had before
advised me in this connection, the same friend impressed upon me the
conviction that, whatever might be its source, such a means of in1luenc-
ing others was one to be neither lightly used, nor lightly disregarded.
Digitized by Google
362 .A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
This changed my attitude in regard to the matter. I learned that what
had seemed only a kind of mental deformity might be at once a privilege
and a responsibility. J began to feel a greater interest in its manifesta.-
tions, and, as I grew older, to accept it among other conditions of life,
as something external to myself, not of my own choosing, a source
neither of shame nor of self-congratulation, mine to use, but seldom
mine to control.
To no one can such things be a greater puzzle than to myself. Their
oonditions are so uncertain, their mode of operation at times so unex-
pected, their chances so complex, their duration so transitory, that one
hestitates to form conclusions.
Only on one or two lesser points, and so far as my own experience
goes, can I speak with any degree of certainty. I would say that such
experiences, though sometimes the occasion, are never the cause, of any
distress; the message conveyed may be painful, but it has seldom
happened that it has been presented in a manner ~ startle or annoy j
it is not followed by physical exhaustion, nor preceded by any special
oonditions; it is most to be looked for when my health is normal, and
my mind at rest. If of what is brought before one's consciousness in
this manner we may say that it is in fact recollection, the recovering of
knowledge which is already ours, if one may apply the very great to
the very small, I would venture to say-
Hence in a aeaaon of calm weather,
Though inland far we be,
Our souls have sight of tho immortal sea.
I have often sought for any condition, beyond that of quiet receptive-
ness, which shall promote such experiences. The result has been
mainly negative. The only occasion when I absolutely lost the power
for any length of time (about 14 months) was when I was exception-
ally anxious for its exercise; after which, having ceased to look for
any messages, they returned suddenly, with perhaps greater vividness
and frequency than ever before.
I have been congratulated on having found among my fliends
several who fulfilled whatever unknown conditions are necessary for
the interchange of messages assumed to be telepathic. What those
conditions may be, or how far they are dependent on myself, I cannot
guess. As I have already said, such interchange has been mainly
spontaneous. It has existed not only with intimate friends but with
mere acquaintances, and even with those whose acquaintance I did not
desire. The most numerous among the instances quoted in this paper
are with my friend, D., but as D. has had scarcely any similar psychical
experience apart from myself, it may be asked how far their frequency
may have depended on propinquity and common interests.
Digitized by Google
1889.] (md other Experiences. 363
D. writes in answer to questions from Mr. Myers :-
II JGt~uary 17th, 1888.
"I Rm generally the recipient of impressiollS, rarely, if ever, the active
power, and even in the caaes in which X. has become collSCious of actions
or intentions of mine, it has been without any recognised exertion of will on
my part that she should know of them, 80 much 80 that it often seems to me
that her knowledge of much that I do has preceded my action, being, indeed,
an exertion of power willing that I should do it. This I notice particularly
in various instances when I have called upon X. at, as I supposed, quite
unexpected times, often at a late hour when on my way home from a dinner
party, or esrly in the morning before the usual breakfast time. Atsuch times
her greeting has generally been, 'I knew you were coming and left the door
open for you,' or' I have been playing for you.' So often has this occurred
that I have given up hope of a surprise visit, and have frequently said to
others that I know I am 'expected,' as an excuse for apparently unseasonable
visits to my friend's house.
" Especially I would notice X.'s power to call me by her music, 'playing
for' me, as I always call it. I am no musician, but as long as I can
remember, music has been associated with all I cared for most, and its
power over me is a very real though perhaps only sentimental one."
The discovery that the possibility of such interchange of thought
existed has always been made by accident rather than experiment. I
quote in connection with names which will appear again in my note-
book one or two early examples. When a child of 13 I waa taken to
see a. college to which it was proposed to send me at a later date for
the completion of my studies. It was during the vacation, and the
lecture rooms were all silent and deserted. In one room, in an out of
the way corner, I saw a girl seated, looking directly towards me. I
noticed her dress, the way in which her hair was arranged, and even a
very slight scar upon her face, when the figure vanished. An unfore-
seen circumstance resulted in my entering the college as a pupil within
a few weeks. At the first class I attended, in the very room already
mentioned, I recognised the subject of my vision, and though she did
not for some weeks vouchsafe to make my acquaintance she became to
me at once an object of interest. A change in the arrangement of the
class led after a time to our sitting side by side, at the very desk at
which I had in vision see~ her, and in the end we established a friend-
ship which has never changed. She is referred to in the note-book as
my friend N . · .
N. writes:-
"I perfectly remember your appearsnce at -- College, 80me weeks
after the opening of term. In common with the whole class I not un-
naturally resented the unexpected advent of a probable rival, who, notwith.
standing the inferiority of years, seemed to threaten my hitherto assured
position in the school. For this reaSOll, and no other, we for some weeks
Digitized by Google
364.0 .A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25p
remained strangers, and I was much interested when, abnost in our first
conversation, you told me that some weeks before your arrival you had had a
prevision of my appearance. I also remember the singular power you seemed
to possess over certain of our companions-over two in particular, the one
addicted to elocution, the other to giggling j you appeared to be able to
reduce them to silence by the apparently simple proce88 of fixing your eyes
upon them from behind."
In another case, Mrs. T., mentioned above, whose name also occurs
in my note-book, pennits me to quote her own version of the matter.
I have known her as a kind friend from my earliest childhood. She
writes:-
"January 17th [1888].
.. It is only, so far as I can re:nember, since then (about five years) that I
can call to mind your seeming influence with regard to my visits to you. I
must say, at the outset, that at no time have I encouraged myself in thinking
of you as wanting me, but usually the impulse to come and see you has come
suddenly, even without my so much as having you in my mind. You know
how much amused I used to be when you greeted me with, 'Oh, here is Mrs.
T., I knew you were coming. • . .' Several times when I have been in
-- and felt I would not call, and have gone in an opposite direction, I have
turned about and come to see you, and usually found I was expected."
Mrs. T. then gives an instance of having resisted a sudden impulse
to come to me, when, after starting in an omnibus in an opposite
direction, she felt compelled to get out and drive to my house, where
ahe found that a letter had been already written desiring her to call.
Her husband, a well·known professional man, testifies to his remem-
brance of her having frequently said that she had been to see me, and
.. of course found" I expected her.
Another incident to which Mrs. T. refers was as follows :-
I was staying with an invalid relative in a country town about six miles
from the village where Mrs. T. then lived. On September 6th, 1887, I left
rather suddenly. so that I was unable to arrange various matters to my satis-
faction, and directed my thoughts to Mrs. T. as a person more likely thanany
other friend to be of use to me. Just as I was leaving, she arrived, in time to
receive my parting instructions. Her own account of the matter is as
follows:- "I did not know you were going, but in spite of wind and rain,
I feU I must see you . . . I am stlre that I had no previous intention of
coming . . . and was, indeed • . • unwilling to undertake the walk
to the station in such unsettled weather."
As Mrs. T. is now but seldom within such distance of me as makes
an unpremeditated visit possible, I have had but few opportunities
lately of attempting to summon her. I have examined my diary for
the early part of 1888 with a view to ascertain the proportion of her
spontaneous visits to those in obedience to summons. It appears that
Digitized by Google
1889.] and othe·r Experiences. 365
during four months (January 13th-April 27th, 1888) she called at the
house eight times, out of which two visits were in consequence of a.
special desire on my part, one of which was noted beforehand.
I am, unfortunately, obliged to confess again my inability to summon
her simply as an experiment. The spontaneous desire for her presence
must be, as in other instances, the motive force.
In regard to another friend, H., the story of the discovery of our
mutual psychical relation will be found below. I think that every
case of the kind as it occurs, impresses upon my mind more and more
strongly the difficulty of foreseeing its possibility, the greater, perhaps,
in my case, on the ground, already referred to, of the wholly spontaneous
nature of most of my experiences.
As I have already said, directly I become occupied with an experi-
ment aI aucl, I am usually conscious of failure. However, two or
t.hree cases of deliberate attempts to read the thoughts of another may
be given here, most of them instances in which the question of experi-
ment was not that uppermost in my mind.
On January 5th, 1889, D. and I were reading letters which bad just
arrived by the post, when D. remarked as she was returning one to ita
envelope, "You would never guess what Miss H.'s Christian name is! you
may ask 20 questions and try." I was not particularly interested, but having
asked two,-whether it were classical or modem, English or foreigu,-I
looked up accidentally at a recess in shadow, by the side of the fire-place,
and read, in letters of light on the dark background, the name "Wilhelmina,"
which was correct, and was then anxious to try again. "You are not likely
to know Miss E.'s name," suggested D. " I'll think of her," and in the same
way, after perhaps two minutes' concentration of thought, and without any
false shots, "Edith" was supplied. In a similar manner followed "James,"
.. George," and" Charlotte "-of George only, was it at all likely that I
should have heard the name before. Of the next that was thought of-
.. Dora "-1 could supply only the finalletters, and asked if it were " Clara,"
and the attempt was given up. When D. thought of names, instead
of the owners of the names, I had no success at all. In the
same way, when D. one day drew a mouse in my presence. but not
within sight and without making any sound with her pencil, I at
once perceived a long oval with a smaller one at the left extremity ; but out
of three drawings, deliberately made as experiments on the same day, I saw
the first correctly, but it was not distinct as was the mouse-the original being
a cross-potent ~, which in my reproduction appeared as a cross within
a square HI, the temunal crossings having been extended till they met;
the second-a pillar with ita capital-in part only,and aftcrmuch hesitation;
and the third after an interval of two hours, during which the drawing}lad
been seen by others, and 80 possibly the opportunities of thought-trans-
ference multiplied.
Digitized by Google
366 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
My various experiences, &8 will be seen by the diary, are largely
unspeci&lised. However, &8 I have already said, some such provisional
dassification &8 served in the case of the Crystal Visions may be offered
here. I shall illustrate each by examples, taken from the note-book,
with the object of showing that the note-book cases, insignificant &8 they
are, relating only to a short space of time and to a limited circle of
friends, correspond, nevertaelellS, in their main features and general
outline with the wider results of at least 20 years' experience. It is
obvious that at this distance of time many of the friends concerned are
scattered, and many circumstances forgotten or imperfectly remembered;
I can, therefore, only offer such corroboration &8 remains possible, and
trust that the better attested instances may serve to create a belief in
my veracity which may extend to others, as to which none could more
desire than do I myself better evidence or further corroboration.
It is evident also that for obvious reasons I can draw for illustration
on part only of my recollections and experience.
These I divide into three groups.
1. The externalisation of a revival of memory.
2. Monitions, possibly telepathic in their origin, which mayor may
not be accompanied by sensory impression.
3. Hallucinations of a kind for which telepathy does not seem to
afford an adequate explanation.
Examples of the first class, though very frequently presented in the
Crystal experiments, are of rare occurrence among the cases now under
consideration. I can quote one only in addition to that (No. 44) which
will be found in my note-book. This presents one exceptional feature
in that it is the only experience in my record which has been frequently
repeated.
From childhood I have been continually aware of the presence of
a little old woman, appearing usually to my right, and rather behind
me, so that I have never seen her actually face to face. She never
presents herself except on occasions of bodily fatigue or mental worry,
and indeed has often served &8 a useful warning against the continuance
of some occupation of which I am already weary.
Just as in my childhood she would assist at the conjugation of
French irregular verbs or the disentanglement of a German nominative,
so now she stands at my elbow after long-continued mental effort, or
accompanies me to the breakfast-table after a sleepless night. Once
when I W&8 ill she discarded the large blue bonnet with whlch I had
previously been familiar, and rather prematurely went into mourning,
which she still wears. Similar cases are quoted by all writers on morbid
psychology, but there is perhaps reason to believe that this figure may
have been in the first instance the creation of memory and association.
I had at one time an alternative vision still more unpleasant. which
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 36'1
I have now happily lost, and which I know to have been produced by
the thoughtless teasing of an elder play-fellow.
It therefore seems possible that some early shock connected with an
()ld woman of disagreeable appearance may have remained in my
memory, to be revived in association with the sensations of anxiety or
exhaustion, such as those of which she had originally been the cause.
Her antitype was, I believe, a certain villager, to whose cottage I was
frequently taken as a. child, and of whom, though I can recall no special
oocasion of shock, my general impression is one of dislike and
repugnance.
The second class presents naturally many sub-divisions. The
simplest kind of monition is that without sensory impression, of which
I have already given examples and which occurs in the note-book
more often than any other. The instance I now quote presents some
special features. .
On the night of December 13th, 1887, I was just going to bed when I was
seized with so strong an impression that D. was thinking of me and that
something was going to happen, that I decided to sit up over the fire and
await events. I have had occasional warnings of visits froin D.-of which
instances will be found in my note-hook-when some emergency has sent her
to me at untimely hours, sometimes before the house was opened in the
morning, or after I have retired for the night, and my immediate conclusion
was that something might have occurred to cause her to pay me a late visit
on her way home from a concert which I knew her to be attending that even-
ing. While I waited, a sudden noise startled me, and a heavy picture fell
from the wall on to my bed, the shivered glass alighting on the pillow, so
that had I gone to bed as usual, I could hardly have escaped injury. This
was about 10.15 p.m. D. supplies the following account: "On December
13th I was singing in the chorus of all oratorio at a concert. I found my
thoughts drawn to my friend X. and seemed to be singing with her, so that
all surroundings were lost to me. During the whole of the first part this
feeling was strong upon me, so much so, that others noticed my strange
absorption, and remarked upon it then and afterwards. The firat part
closed about 10.15, and during the second, which began some 10 minutes later,
I found myself free from anything but my usual interestin the music." One of
those present, who remarked upon D.'s preoccupation, testifies in writing to
her recollection of the foot.
In the next example, the telepathic impression, if such it were, was
more completely externalised. As my friend D. may be considered the
agent, I quote her own account of the matter.
"April 13th, 1888.
II In the spring of 1881, in the evening after dinner, I accidentally
set fire to the curtains of a sitting-room, and put myself and several
others into some danger. The next morning, on visiting X., I heard
from her that she had been much disturbed over-night })y all unaccountable
smell of fire, which she could not trace, but which seemed to follow her
Digitized by Google
368 .A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25.
wherever she went." [I took considerable trouble to discover the cause, and
was quieted only by the assurance that it was imperceptible to the rest of the
household.] "I was led to discover the fire, and so probably to save the
house by what seemed a chance thought of X. I had left the room,
unconscious of anything wrong, and had settled to my work elsewhere,
when I suddenly remembered I had not put away some papers I had
been looking at, and which I had thought might wait for daylight, but
a strong feeling that x. would insist upon order, had she been there,
induced me to go back, when I found the whole place in flames."
I proceed now to quote four cases, all of visual hallucination, but
differing in type,-the first a vision of a friend actually watching me
at the moment; the second of one at a distance but whom I know to
have been thinking of me at the time; the third of one in whose
thoughts I may have been, though this is by no mean:; certain; and
the last of a friend in supreme danger, whose actual thoughts at the
moment we are not likely to ascertain.
One morning I was walking in some public gardens when, just as we
reached the point where the path slopes down to the high road, I remarked
that Mr. L. was in front of U8. My companion, whose sight is longer than
mine, assured me I was mistaken, but for once I was quite certain of my
own powers of vision, and the hallucination persisted till we reached the
crossing, when the figure disappeared, so suddenly that I could only suppose
he had entered one of the opposite shops. [I would point out that had t.he
image been caused by a reflection in the shop windows, which the distance
renders unlikely, I should have seen the face, not the back of my friend, 8S
the sequel will show.]
The same afternoon we met Mr. L. at a garden party [D. remembers
and confirms the conversation] when I mentioned having seen him before,
hut that he had not waited to be spoken to. "It was you who wouldn't wait,"
he replied, and we at length discovered that he had been walking at some
distance behind us, had tried to make me look round, and had finally given
up the attempt as we crossed the road.
I quote the next case from my private diary of February 20th, 1888.
While paying a visit this afternoon, and talking to friends who do
not know M., and where nothing could remind me of her, I was suddenly
soized with the conviction that she wanted me, and at once determined
to call upon her (though at some inconvenience) on my way home.
. Just as I arrived, my resolution was altered, as the scrap scribbled
on the spot will show.
This, written on the back of a letter, is as follows :-"Monday, Feb. 20th.
1888. I was about to call on M., but having reached her door am so certain
that she is at mine, that I do not even inquire, though I particularly desire
to meet her. I write in the carriage, 10 past 4." [I had a momentary but
distinct vision of M. standing against the background of my own front door.]
When I reached home the servant told me that M. had called "about
four, or a little after." A note from her, received the next morning, says,
1889.] a11d other Experiences. 369
"I was so sorry to miss you this afternoon. I couldn't come to see you
before, I've been rather ill lately," and proceeds to suggest arrangements
as to a scheme of some interest to both of us, and which she was anxious
to carry out immediately. I afterwards discovered that she had left her
room, in order to call upon me, in defiance of her doctor's direct injunctions.
I quote again from my private diary, February 17th, 1888 :-"Saw
J. crossing the road." A more detailed account from which I quote
was written on July 7th, five months later:-
"I was on my way to D., and told her on my arrival that I knew J.
was coming, as I had seen him carrying a parcel, which I described, but that
he had taken no notice of me. She said I must be mistaken, as he was un-
likely to be free on this particular morning. About half an hour later he
arrived with the package in question, having been actually, at the time I 8I\W
him, in the railway carriage. D. remembers and corroborates this. I am clear
that it was not a case of mistaken identity; there was no one else in sight,
and the figure which seemed to be, like myself, directing its steps towards
the garden gate became fainter as the distance lessened between us, till it
faded entirely away."
The next case was communicated in writing to the secretary of the
Society for Psychical Research some months before I knew whether
there had been any coincidence at all.
On December 14th, 1885, I went about 11 o'clock in the morning to visit
a friend. While waiting for her, alone in the library, I became suddenly
conscious of a presence in the room, and looking up met the fixed gaze of my
friend M., whom I knew to be in the East. The face, which I knew as
one more than ordinarily calm and bright in expression, bore a terrible look
of pain and apprehension. I recorded it in my diary the same day thus:-" To
--11 o'clock. Saw M. Write to [her mother] when can." I was BO startled
as to be for the moment unable to control my agitation when immediately
after my friend entered the room, and she was somewhat perplexed when, in
answer to her inquiry, I replied that I had Been M., of whom she had never
heard. To this she has testified in writing as follows :-
"January 9th, 1888.
"I do not of course remember the date, but I perfectly remember that
one morning when X. was here and my sister and I came into the room she
said she had Been M."
My diary for the next few days shows that I took all possible op-
portunity of inquiring after M. among her relatives, but I heard only
that she was, BO far as was known, in her usual health and spirits. A few
weeks later I received a few pencilled lines from M. saying that she was
recovering from a severe accident in the hunting-field, but naming no hour
nor date. She had Qeen thrown in such a manner that her head was for
BOrne minute. between the horse's hoofs, while the animal was kicking BO
violently that it Beemed almost impOBSible she should escape a blow which
must have caused her death. My friend kept no diary, and was unaple,when
afterward. asked to do BO, to furnish me with the date; however, when,
Digitized by Google
370 .A heard of Telepathic [Oct. 25.
in January, 1888, I communicated the case in this imperfect fonn ro
Mr. Myers, he urged me ro endeavour ro ascertain the exact date of the
accident by reference ro the owner of the horse which M. happened ro be
riding. From him we learned that it occurred on December 14th, 1885.
the date of my impre88ion. The time was. at M.'s home, about nine
o'clock a.m., and, therefore, taking it "s five and a-half hours in advance
of English time, the accident preceded my vision by more than seven
hours. My friend was in a condition of acute suffering for many hours
after removal ro her own hOl1$e, but was never unconscious at all.
The next case is the only one I can at present offer of visual
hallucination shared with another percipient :-
I was somewhat annoyed, some five years ago, ro discover, and ro find that
others had observed, that BOme unexplained induence from myself affected a.
lady of whom I may now speak as my friend H., but whom at that time I
knew by sight only. If I were behind her in the street she would leave her
companions to tum and face me; if I drove past her, leaning back in the
carriage and out of sight, she would stop and look round with an air of be-
wildennent, as though someone had called her; if she entered a crowded
room where I was already seated she would make her way at once to my side
and then retreat, as much annoyed probably as I was myself. She has in-
dependently recorded and her friends have testified to many such instances_
I knew of her as an active, useful woman of unusually strong,eommon-sense.
but the impre88ion that a rapport had, unsought, been established between
us, made me chary of improving an acquaintance which might add to its
power. The circumatauces under which our friendship was established may
be considered to justify my early conclusions.
On May 16th, 1888, we met at an evening entertainment at the house of
a friend. Late in the evening, the room being very hot, H. was seized with
sudden faintne88, and was aBBisted into another room. I followed,in the hope
of being of use, and H. was soon placed upon.the door in an unconscious con-
dition, her head resting on my knee. After some minutes of unconsciousness
she seized my hand and uttered a sudden exclamation. Following the direc-
tion of her eyes, I saw a figure-standing a few feet distant, directly facing
us and looking down at H.-which, not being in evening dreBB, could not be
any of our fellow-guests. The vision was only momentary, but I believed
that H. had also seen it, and from the tenacity with which, after again be-
coming unconscious, she clung to my hand, I supposed she was aware that I
had shared in it. Nothing, however, was said at the time by either H. or
myself, and the subject was not even alluded to, until some months later,
when I narrated the above facts in her presence (but after she also had
independently done so) to the Secretary of the Society for Psychical
Research.
H., a.fter describing the same vision, writes :-
.. I then found I was in the dining-room, on the floor, holding your hand,
and with a sort of vague feeling that you knew what I had seen. On the
9th of November following. without any remark I handed you a portrait (of
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 3'71
the subject of the vision)and you immediately exclaimed, •Just 80, the broad
forehead.' I wondered what you meant, but said nothing. Some few
weeks later you in my presence were giving Mr. Myers your account of
the evening of May 16th. You, too, had seen the figure, which you then
described, saying • the broad forehead especially struck me,' and then at
once your remark was explained."
Later, we each independently drew a plan of the room, showing th&
position of the figure to have been exactly the same in both visions.
My diary shows a good many subsequent cases of rapport with th&
same friend. They are all, I believe, telepathic in origin and are
similar in kind to those with other friends,.-obedience to my summons,
the hearing of my music at a distance, or the perception by one of
something which is in any unusual degree affecting the other.
The cases hitherto given as telepathic hallucinations have occurred
during the lifetime of the person· who was presumably the agent.
However, there are in my memoranda a few cases of sensory halluci-
nation coincident with the death of the agent, which circumstances or
the lapse of time make it possible for me to describe, for in dealing
with what concerns the more serious side of life, one cannot disregard
that respect for the natural reticence of oneself and others, the sup-
pression of which alone makes possible the publication of private
experiences, however trivial.
In the following case, as I was but a little child at the time, and
the lady who appeared to me had no particular interest in my existence,
I can only suppose the attraction to have been of that local kind of
which, in Phanta.nns oftlUJ Living, we have some striking examples.
I was staying in a country vicarsge in the North. The children of the
house were my constant play-fellows. I was accustomed to share their
nursery, as they mine, and was not likely to be impressed by the fact that my
hostess was from home, nursing a cousin whom I had never known but as a
chronic invalid. I had seen her but seldom, though the idea of her was very
familiar to me, for she was often spoken of by my companions as a frequent
visitor to the house, which, I believe. she regarded as almost a second home.
One morning as I was passing. from a room beyond, through the Sp&r&
room of the house, which Miss H. would naturally occupy if she were ther&
on a visit, I perceived to my left a lady in walking dress, standing between
the dressing table and the window,and lookingintently intothe garden below.
I saw her face in profile, but had not an instant's doubt that it was Miss H.,
and, too shy to speak when not addressed, I hastened downstairs to report
her arrival.
As I passed the front door, which may have been open, but atany rate was
partly glazed, I was utterly perplexed to see her again in the same position,
on the lawn in front of the house. The next day we heard of her death.
I remember that my childish interpretation of what I had seen was
that she had been saying "Good-bye" to the sunny garden where probably
Digitized by Google
372 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
many happy hours had been spent, and which, it seemed to me then, it
would be very hard to leave for ever. It may be worth while to
mention that the house had long been reputed to be "haunted," and
that various stories (difficult to corroborate) are told of the return after
death of some of its various occupants. I am, however, sure that this
had no influence upon my mind at the time I speak of.
In August, 1875, I was visiting at a country house in the Midland
counties. I slept alone in a room on the ground door, the house being an old
one, and oddly arranged. At dawn on Tuesday, 31st, I was awakened by
hearing a good deal of noise at the window which seemed like the rattling of
Venetian blinds. I could see nothing, as the bed curtains obscured my view
of the window, and concluded that it was some foolish joke of the boys,
who sometimes passed my windows at an early hour when they were going out
to fish. I therefore took a book, and read quietly till the noise ceased, which
was, I should think, after about 10 minutes, during which it recurred several
times, at intervals.
I had looked forward to the pleasure of disappointing those who had hoped
to frighten me, by asserting at breakfast that I had slept particularly well, and
was myself disappointed at JlO inquiry being made, and at findingthat the boys
had risen late for breakfast. When we heard, in a day or two, that my Uncle C.
had died in London in the night of Monday-Tuesdsy, August 3Oth-31st,
I had no thought of connecting the two circumstances. However, on retunl-
ing home in September, I found that my uncle's only son had had, during
the same night, a similsr experience, which affected him so strongly that he
refused to remain in the house, from which the family shortly removed. The
noise was described as a violent agitation of the window blinds, and as of the
removal of a heavy dressing·table standing in the window. A further expe-
rience, of which I do not know the particulars, happened on the same night
to another relative, but neither to him nor to my cousin am I permitted to
refer, as, for family reasons, the subject was especially painful.
This incident assumed in my mind a new importance on the occasion
I am about to describe. I quote from an account which I wrote down
on August 8th, 1888 :-
Last summer I was staying at a house in the country; my room was at
the top of the house and overlooked a garden and orchard.
At four in the morning of Friday, August 19th, 1887, I was awakened by
a sudden noise at the window. I had been suffering from acute neuralgia
i,he day before, and after" strong opiate had gone to Bleep, after hearing the
clock strike two, and was naturally impatient at the disturbance. I tried to
compose myself, but in vain; the noise continued, apparently nearer, though
that might be consequent on my more wakeful condition.
The Bound proceeded unmistakably from the left-hand window, -Ute two
windows faced the bedstead,-and sounded as if the laths of the Venetian
blinds were being stroked upwards from the outside. The room was too
dark,-the blinds being dark green,-for it to be possible for me to 888 if
they moved, so I got up, looked at the time (four o'clock), examined the
window, which was shut, fastened tile hasp, rotumed to bed, and wu' once
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiencea. 373
more becoming drowsy when I was re-awakened with a ahock which brought
on a fresh access of the pain from which I had been suffering, and made
further rest out of the question.
I was now persuaded that the sounds proceeded from no ordinary cause,
but I took the precaution of carefully examining the blind, and of trying
to reproduce the sound with my hand. In this I succeeded, though the
sound was diminished in volume, and I then drew up the blind, opened the
window wide, noted the hour in my diary (4.20), and sat in my easy chair
for perhapa 10 or 15 minutes watching the starlings and wondering what it
all meant. At length, however, I felt chilly, so shut the window, leaving
the blind drawn up, went back to bed and watched. III a very few minutes
the noise began again, quite as loud and distinct but different in character,
rather as of something being drawn slowlyacross the glass, still from the out·
side. (To put it familiarly, the first sound was a rattle, the second a squeak.)
I was looking out the whole time, and could see the starlings on the telegraph
wires which ran opposite, and at a few feet distant from, the windows. Cer-
tainly nothing I could see would account for the sounds, which still continued.
There was no wind, there was no ivy on the house, there was no motion in
the telegraph wires, with the sound of which I was, moreover, familiar, and I
may mention what I am sure all who know me would corroborate, that I have
unusually quick and accurate hearing. At last, feeling myself unable to come
to any conclusion on the matter, and knowing the \'"ery disastrous effect of
refusing such sleep as an opiate offers, I stopped my ears with wool, the
sounds having in no degree abated, and contrived to get some broken rest.
I now add the brief note from my diary ;-
August 19th, Friday, 4.20 a.m.-Bird (1) at window for last 20 minutes
[added at 9 a.m.]-and for another 10 minutes after that. Just sent for
[news]paper. E. and K. S. married. Nothing else happened as appears
yet. No letters, except from Horse's Home and H. Even the mare is no
worse.
Saturday, 2Oth.-Letter from XZ. B.I died at 10.30. (a.m.) yesterday.
The children in time to see her alive.
XZ. allows me to quote from a letter written to her by me, dated Satur-
day:-
" You will think it strange when I say that your sad news was a great
relief to me I I have had one of my strange experiences, which I may tell
you, but cannot write, I feel so shakon. . When the post came I
opened all the letters, of which there were three, before yours, feeling I
would rather anyone else had bad news to tell. Is it not strange
these things should happen to me in relation to what has for me no personal
interest 1 The same thing exactly happened when my uncle died."
I now pass on to Class III.
In my paper on Crystal-gazing I had toface one difficult point, then,
as now, with some reluctance, aware of the difficulties which it presents,
1 B., a lady whom I had known long, but not intimately. I can, however, easily
conoeive that, for 8pecial reasons,her mind might tum towards me even at so 8upreme a
moment.
2 B
374 ..d Record of Telepatkic [Oct. 25,
and still more of my own entire inability to arrive at any conclusion.
I again can only offer, aware that they may appear to injure the rest of
the paper, such facts in my experience as compel one to consider the
perplexing question, Can prevision be possible 1
The fall of the picture already quoted, a case which· somewhat
suggests the same question, followed upon a pure premonition without
sensory hallucination. I proceed to give two cases in which the exter-
nalisation was exceptionally clear. In the first I can add little to the
accuracy of th~ story as told by my friend D., and written out by her
at the request of Mr. Myers on January 17th, 1888. We had both
previously and independently told him the story.
..About eight years ago (April, 1882) X. and I were staying in a country
house, in 1\ neighbourhood quite strange to us both. One morning, soon
after our ,",rival, we drove with a pa.rty of four or five others in a waggonette
to the neighbouring town, and on our return, &8 we came in sight of the
house, X. remarked to our hostess, 'You have very early visitors; who are
your friends 1' "
[I 11'&8 sitting either beside or immediately behind our host who 11'&8
driving, and what had first attracted my attention 11'&8 the sight, &8 I
believed, of fresh wheel-marks.]
.. We all turnoo to find the cause of the question, but could see no one,
and as we were still in view of the front door,on which X.'s eyes were fixed,
we asked her what she could possibly be dreaming of. She then described
to us, the more minutely that we all joined in absolute denial of the
existence of anything at all, the appearance of a dog-cart standing at the
door of the house, with a white horse, and two mon, one of whom had got
down, and 11'&8 talking to a terrier; she even commented on the draBS of one
of the gentlemen, who 11'&8 wearing an ullter, she said, a detail which we
certainly should not have supposed it possible for her to recognise at such a
distance from the spot. As we went up the drive X. drew attention to
fresh wheel-marks, but here also we were all unable to see as she did, and
when we arrived at the houee and found no sign of cart or visitors, and on
inquiry learned that no one had been near in our absence, we naturally
treated the whole story as a mistake, caused by X.'s somewhat short-sight.
..Shortly after, she and I were in an upstairs room in the front ofthe house,
when the sound of wheels was heard, and I went to the window to see who
it might be. 'There's your dog-cart after all!' I exclaimed, for there,
before the door, was the identical cart as X.had described it, correct in every
detail, one of the gentlemen-having got down to ring the bell-being at that
moment engaged in playing with a small fox-terrier. The visitors were
strangers to our friends,-officers from the barracks near,who had driven over
with an invitation to a ball."
C., having read over D.'s account, had added, .. This is substantially the
same account &8 I heard from one of the party in the carriage." Mr. Myers
adds, .. I heard C., an old family servant, tell the story independently with
the same details."
Both D. and I were surprised at her accurate knowledge of the story,which
she had not learnt from us, but from another lady present on the occasion.
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 375
It is from no want of will that in the next case I can offer at
present no corroboration. The strangers present on the occasion were
the mere chance acquaintances of a seaside boarding-house, whom I have
not been able to trace, though I still hope to find one of the party, a.
lady with whom I have some slight independent acquaintance. My
own companion at the time, was too deaf to catch the passing conversa.-
tion, and was not afterwards told of the circumstances. There is also
no reference to them in my letters to near friends, which, I think, is
owing to the fact that we had passed through recent sorrow, and were
occupied with other matters.
I quote from an account of the facts which I wrote down on
February 9th, 1888.
In August, 1885, we were staying in a private boarding-house. I was
recovering from illness, and for the sake of curtailing the meal-time as far as
possible, never entered the dining-room till everyone was seated.
One evening, as I chanced to look across the table, immediately after my
entrance into the room (my seat was very near the door), my eyes being
somewhat dazzled by the blaze of gaslight following upon the darkness of the
long passages I had just traversed, I observed, as I supposed, a new arrival
in the chair diametrically opposite to my own. The lady who was usually my
~i&-a-t'i& was tall, dark, high-coloured, and often wore a light dress,-my new
opposite neighbour sat much lower, was small,pale in colouring, and appeared
to have a quantity of something black below her face with a shining bar some-
where near her left ear. I am slow-sighted and do not see anythingdistinctly
at the first moment, and my attention was too much struck by her brilliant
ornament to allow me to observe her features. Before I had time to remark
anything further, I was addressed in the very lively tones of Mrs. S., my more
familiar "u-a-t'IB, who asked" what I was staring at 1" and "why I did not
sit down 1" This at once dispelled the vision, the new-comer entirely dia-
appeared, and I found that,someone having left the house that day, theseata
had been rearranged, and that Mrs. S. alone occupied the space which had
formerly been given to two. I gave a brief explanation of my conduct and
took my seat.
The next evening, on entering the room, I noticed that the eyes of my
neighbours were following me with a certain air of merriment. I looked across
the table, and observing nothing unusual, laughingly asked Mrs. S_ what she
had done with her diamonds, when she made some unintelligible answer, and
with a gesture directed my attention to the lady on my right, who proved to
be my phantom friend of the night before, but aeated exactly o.PJ>Orite the
spot where I had then seen her. She was small, fair, and dressed ill black,
with a cloud of black lace fastened on her left shoulder with an ornament
too audacious for an Englishwoman to venture upon,-a bar at least three
inches long, of black enamel and diamonds. The lady proved to be an American
who had arrived in the town only the night before, having stayed at an hotel
till she should find some quieter abode.
Unfortunately I had during my illness temporarily dropped my life-long
habit of keeping a diary, so that I have no contemporary account of the fact.
2 B 2
Digitized by Google
376 .A ReCQ1'd of Telepathic [Oct, 25,
In a book in which I preserve notes of books, conversations, &c., in which
dates, however, are not frequent, I find two passing references to the dia-
monds. One which seems to have been made on August 27th begins, "Good
story to-night from :Mrs. S., apropos of a non-existent diamond brooch I
'saw.''' The other, msde apparently on the following evening, says, ":Mrs_
S. told another story to-night, a consequence of discovering that my diaruonda
really have an existence after all."
I will conclude my paper with the note-books to which I referred at
the beginning. Together with notes of the quasi-experimental kind,
made before we knew that the impression received was veridical, or
the supposed transmission successful, we have thought it worth while
to note, as soon as we were aware of them, a number of coincidences
not recorded beforehand; as these may serve to give some measure of
the frequency of such occurrences in our everyday life. As regards
both classes of entries I must warn the reader about to embark on the
perusal of the following pages that he will constantly feel that the
transmitted message is just as intrinsically unimportant as the trans-
ference of a card or a number, and perhaps more tedious to read about_
I am quite conscious of this triviality, and of what looks like the
egotism of insisting on the details of slight incidents in a very unevent-
ful existence. I can only hope that all this may serve as an indication
of fidelity to fact; for certainly my friend and I, if we had given free
play to imagination, could have painted our telepathic intercourse in
more exciting colours. Since our attention has been turned to the
subject, few incidents have been recorded of a graver type, and in fact,
as will easily be supposed, where there lKUJ been a message of deeper
interest, it has been needful to suppress mention of it, as involving
a.ffairs of others which I have no right to publish. But if telepathy
exist as a natural fact, there seems no reason for assuming that it is less
likely to manifest itself on trivial, than on serious occasions, and the
unimportance of the incident diminishes its evidential value only so far
as it diminishes the improbability of the coincidence. This it un-
doubtedly sometimes does, though not, I think, always.
I begin with D.'s note-book, and give all her entries for the year
1888. They are given in most cases exactly as written, but in a few
it has been necessary to alter or add a word or two, to conceal identity.
D. has not made it clear in her notes whether they were made before
she knew if her impression were correct or not, and, except in cases where
the deficiency is supplied by internal evidence, I have therefore to trust
to her memory on this important point. I have marked with an
asterisk, those entries which, to the best of her present belief,were written
down before she knew whether they were justified by fact. As will be
seen, my own recollection confirms hers in some cases. I borrowed the
note book for examination on May 5th and November 3rd, 1888, and
Digitized by Goo~
~889.] and other Experiences; 377
on June 12th, 1889, and on each occasion copied the entries into my
own note-book, and added notes giving confirmatory evidence from my
own private diary, from letters, or, when these sources failed, from my
recollection. The substance of these notes, in some cases abbreviated,
I give after each corresponding entry. Remarks added afterwards are
enclosed in square brackets. D.'s entries are printed in italics to dis-
tinguish them from my notes. It may be as well to state that flO
entries having any possible psychical relation to D. occur in my private
diary other than those quoted. My own note-book did not begin till
May.
It will be observed that of the 20 entries which D. believes she
made before testing their truth, two relate to impressions as to books,
and 14 to impressions as to my music. Of these only one is wrong, and
on that occasion I was wishing to play. In 10 of the musical cases the
specific piece is noted, and in 13 the hour is noted. These were always
right except in the one case of failure; which comes under both heads.
One more remark before proceeding to the note-book. .Though I
have included a period of 12 months it should not count as more than
nine, for D. and I were, for about three months during the year, under
the same roof, when she discontinued her notes.
*(1) Jaml41'Y 6th. Tried _ral boob rather than Shirley, Worcl8'lDOTth,
atld ~ Browning.. Finally took to Villette.
In my private diary for January 6th, 1888, I find the following entry:-
9.30 (my clock is alow), I have been trying to make D. read after my
choice whether she will or no ! I tried Mrs. Browning, but gave it up because
I remembered the chances were in favour of my choosing it, as I have a new
copy. Next I took up my commonplace book for a suggestion, and my eyes
fell on a quotation from" the Profe88or." I shut my eyes and began to recall
the story, which involved more concentrstion of power than reading it. This
for about 20 minutes.
Saturday 7th.-Tried to "lesd up" to last night's occupation with D., but
ahe said nothing as to choice of books.
Sunday January 8th.-Satisfactory after all. D. confe88ed, without being
questioned, that on Friday night • . . she hesitated over Browning (R.
not Mrs.) and finally chose Villette, the plot of which is the same as that of
the Professor.
(2) Jaml4ry 13tl~. Home 5.30; Jcmoo X. playittg Jor me.
From my private dairy I find (noted beforehand) that I wished to com-
municate with D., and, knowing thatahe had engagementa for both afternoon
and evening, and might not return home meanwhile, ao that a note Bent
to her hOUle might not reach her, I tried the experiment of playing to
her at 5.30, on the chance of her hearing me. I chose the hour, one at which
I never or very rarely play, that, ahould she hear, ahe might gue88 a apecW
intention. She heard, and came shortly after, saying at once, "You have
been calling me."
(3) Jan'JJIJtY 19th. To let X., eunittg, 9.30, Jomul her 1DCliting.
Digitized by Google
3'18 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
On reference to my private diary I find that on this evening D. called at
an unuaual hour, after I had gone to my room. Found me waiting for
her, and my expectation already noted, my pri"ate diary open at the page
waiting for her signature, which she added. Thus, .. Sent for [D.] 9.15·9.30."
.. Came 9.35, door open ready. [D.]" This was not a deliberate experiment,
but I had wanted especially to see her, and my desire, first formulated while
pJaying aboutS o'clock, passed into expectation at 9.15, and certainty at 9.30,
when I heard her call, i.e., a peculiar whistle uaed by either when entering
the houae to summon the other. [In fact, she did not whistle, nor, when she
was still 4 or 5 minutes' distance from the house, which she entered with a
Jatch.key, could I have heard her had she done BO.]
(4) January 2ht. Walked to J.'. howie. Started home at 5.30.
D. tells me this means" started home in conscious obedience to sum-
mons." As she keeps this note·book solely to record such lummons, &c.,
she would not enter the fact of an ordinary walk.
ThiI incident is recorded at length in my private journal. D. had
started for J.'s house in the morning. Not knowing whether she had
returned home or not, I sent off' a note, dated 5.30, asking her to come to
me at once. This I lupplemellted by play,ing to her for half 8n hour. At
6.30 she arrived, saying I had called her at 5.30 before she left J.'s-train
and walk from door to door about 50 minutes. I had entered the summOJlS
in a note-book about six o'clock. She found the note at home on her return
after Heeing me.
(5) Jan1laT'l} 22nd. To X., 7.45.
I had not intentionally called D., but she had been much in my mind
this morning, and she tells me she had to come, though to pay a visit
at 7.45 a.m. required considerable energy. Unfortunately I had not
noted down my expectation of her visit, but the fact that I had opened my
door to listen for her arrival, after hearing her whistle, was evidence for
her that I was looking for her coming. I had heard the whistle BOrne
minutes before she entered the houle. Of course Ihe had not whistled, nor,
had she done 10, could I have literally heard her.
*(6) January 23rd. &mnet8, E. B. B., 10.30.
[In my priv8te diary written about 10 p.m., I find, "Sonnetl, VlU-1X.,
E. B. B."] I had h8d no thought of experiment in the first instance, but
simply desired that D. should read theile, having myself, after reading them,
been struck by their appositenc88 to a subject we had that day discuased.
Next day D. said, "What were you doing at 10.30 lut night, to make me
get out a book when I was only sleepy and wanted to go to bed 1" The
note in her book was made, if not at the time, certainly before discU88~
the matter with me.
(7) February 24th. FlOll'el'8 in ne1C album all the eveuing.
There is no entry in my diary about this, but I remember perfectly that on
seeing D. on Saturday morning, the 25th, she said at once, .. What did you
desire me to do last night 1" and I answered, "I suppose you must have
been arranging my dried flowers, as I was suddenly p088esaed with the idea
that you wanted the ferns, and I spent. the evening looking them out."
There was no reason why D. Ihould have done the work then,-probability
was against it, as not a likely thing to do by gaslight, after dinner.
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 379
(8) Felm.UJ"Y 25th. Talked of R. E. and the N. '8. Accident to X.
F'lowerafrom B. W. Wrote to X. at 6.25. Note dated 6.20 received later.
This entry was made on the following day, Sunday, after some talk with
me. I was alone all Saturday, and my mind had been scene painting even
more vividly than usual. On Sunday I happened to refer to BOme 1I0wers
that D. had sent me from B. W. ill April, '85, and which there was no
reason I should specially remember. Later I also referred to an accident
I had met with some time ago, and then D. said, "What has made you
speak of these things 1" and when I explained that I had been "going
over" both occurrences on Saturday she said that might account for
the vivid manner in which, for no reason, both IIcenes had presented
themselves to her on Saturday afternoon. An hour later I laid, ,. Another
scene I was picturing yesterday you could not have thought uf, for I never
described it to you," and began to speak of a certain party at the N."a 4 years
before, at which she had not been preaent, and at which J. and I had amuaed
ourselves with watching R. E. D. was much surprised, and told me that ahe
had spent quite a long time the day before, trying to cOMtruct a picture of the
lICene, and so far as our place in the room, which of the B.'s many rooms,
and the subject of our talk were concerned, quite correctly. She knew that
R. E. had been present, but not that be had been our particular amusement.
Probably any of the two or three hundred people present would have been
better worth our attention. [Recorded in my private diary.]
D.'s final entry refers to our having within five minutes each written to
the other. D. wrote, says her note, becauae she" had to write," I, because
I was conscioua that she was sending a me88enger, who arrived with the one
note just as I was fastening up another for him to take back.
(9) March 2nd. Note to X. for nothing, bllt beca1U1l she wanted it.
No, I didn't want it, but D.'s servants had forgotten to forward something
I required, and for which it was not convenient for me to send. D. became
aware that I wanted something, but, unfortunately for me, more exact
information failed her.
*(10) March 6th. Hellerll, 7.30. [Meaning that she had an hallucination
of hearing me play.]
No note in my diary on this point. It was quite a likely time for me
to play, but there wall no special reason why I should be playing the music
referred to, as ill fact I was. D. asked me the next day what I had played
and showed me her entry.
*(11) March 7th. Beet/wI'en 1caltzeB, 10.
Yes. Ten a.m. is quite in my practising time, but that particular muaic
was against probability. [This WRS recorded in my private diary after D. had
asked me as to my occupation of the morning, ahowing entry.]
*(12) March 8th. No practise. [Meaning that she was aware that I
had not played at my usual hour.]
True. I very rarely neglect my morning practise, but on thia day was
otherwise occupied, as my private diary shows.
*(13) March 9th. MI/~ic, 7.30-8.
[MarcIl 10th will be found below, omitted for convenience of grouping.]
*(14) March 13th. 7.40. Mum.
Digitized by Google
380 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25.
. *(15) MarrA 14th. 9.30 a.m. [Music.] Bvening of aame day. NotAit.g
but orgam and batui8, popular ain and Mikado. 7FlaiA of Het&lelt 9 (p.m.).
*(16) MarrA 15tA. 9-10. 7Faint Het&lelt.
I remember that when D. showed me these entries I was specially
interested. I was practising at the time some muaic of Helllleit's she had
never heard, and was playing this on all five occasions. D. notes it on the
first 3 vaguely as ")lusic," something which she did not recogniae. On
the 14th I played it over to her, and afterwards she recognised it imperfectly.
I was practising it for her, knowing she would like it, so that she was much
in my mind at the time.
[Mr. Myers, who read this portion of the diary on July 27th, '88, has
added under the second entry of the 14th: "D. explains that on trying
to hear X., she only heard vague memories of music. X. was not playing
then. Thus the wish to hear did not produce it. In answer to the
question, 'How is the music heard l' D. explains that it is sometimes
extemaliaed as distant sound, sometimes it is only the idea of being called
by music."]
*(17) MarrA 10th. 7 MlI,j/ic, 9.30-10 a.m.
My private diary gives a full account of the occasion referred to. On
the previous day I had told D. I was going to call on V. directly after
breakfast, and would go on to her about 11.15. By the first poet on
Saturday I received a requeat from V. that I would postpone my visit. I
therefore devoted the hour thus gained to the piano, and proceeded
afterwards to D.'s house, arriving about a quarter to 11. Shl! thet} showed
me her note of a fact which had caused her some bewilderment, and indeed
anxiety, as to the cause of my change of plan.
*(18) March. 16th. Bad night; frightened. KnC10 X. tOO& worried.
This refers to vague perception that I was in trouble. I believed that I
had concealed the fact for three days with entire succe88.
*(19) March 17th. WantedX. WOllldn'ttUkher [to come]. B. it&.Nt~
on going for her in 'Pite of aU di&s1uuion. X. came.·
The upshot of this was that I remained at D.'s house to sleep, and fell
seriouslyill that night. My doctor congratulated me on the good luck of my
happening to be in the hand of my inestimable nurse D. I should add that my
doctor's opinion, for which I particularly asked, was that this attack could
not have been foreseen. [Nsvertheleas, in reading this and the previoua
entryagain, I cannot but see how easily both occasions may be accounted for
in a perfectly ordinary manner. But this was not my feeling at the time
nor D.'s.]
The following entries, (20) to (27) inclusive were made while D. and 1
were in different and distant counties.
*(20) AUg1ut 15th. HeUer. 9.10-25.
Cp. letter from D. dated August 15th, "I did hear you playing to-night,
somewhere about 9.9-30 1. . there seemed to be some Heller about,
poasibly becaus8 I was alone • • • for a little."
*(21) AugttBt 17th• . Slumber /IOn,g, 7.35-50.
Cp. letter dated August 17th. "Were you playing the Slumber song
before dinner this evening 1"
I read these pasaages (from D.'s letters) to my hOltess immediately on
Digitized by Google
1889.] cmd other Experiences. 381
receiving tho letters, and on both occasions she remembered that I had in
fact played the music spoken of at the time mentioned.
(From letter from hoste88, Februry 6th, '89.) I perfectly remember the
events to which you refer as baving happened when you were staying with
me lBBt August, namely, that on one occasion you played on the piano before
going out for a drive, and on another after dhmer, and that you read aloud
to us at breakfast an extract from a letter from [D.] referring to these and
naming the correct hour. I do not remember the datos, but feel sure that on
neither occasion had there been time for her to hear of it from you. [Signed.]
[My friend has reversed the order of the two circ~tancea. The 1lrat
occasion was after dinner, the second, when waiting for the carriage to take
us out earlier in the evening, about 7.20·30.]
(22) A1cgmt 18th. Sent drawi).g to X.
On August 17th I received a letter from D. asking, "Isn't there
something you can set me to do for you bere 1" and at once remembered
that I wanted her to copy a cortain print for me, which I could not
send to her till I returned home on August 18th. She was, I am certain,
unaware that I p0880888d this picture, nor have I ever 88en another like
it elsewhere. On the 19th, I sought it out, and put it in an envelope,
with my instructions, but it had not been posted, when I received from
D. a drawing almost exactly like that I was wishing she should make.
The two copies are of the same head in difl'erent positioJl.l. In the
letter which accompanied this D. says merely, "I have tried to copy
this for your amusement." [The copy from which bers was taken happened
to hang in the hall of the house in which D. and her family were spending
the summer.]
*(23) AtlgtIBt 20th. Dreamt X. wrote to I4Y, "Can I come to you Sep-
tember 11th' "
A1191IBt 21,t. Letterfrom X. dated 19th, about drawing [as above], atld
meaaagt, aa in d)'eam [i.e., asking to come on September 11th].
A later date had been previously arranged for my visit to D., and the
sudden readjustment was consequent on a change in the plana of other
frienda.
*(24) &ptember lit. Half letter ,
&ptember 2M. Yea.
After finishing a letter to D. on August 31st, quite complete in itself,
I wrote a long postscript, which after all I kept back, aud sent by the next
post.
(20) &ptember 3rd. Tired and X. knew. (Refers to a period of three
days.)
.. Tired" here stands for .. out of spirits." I was conscious of. D.'s
depression, which was certainly not indicated in her letters, which I have
re·read to make sure of this. It arose from a cause of which I was entirely
ignorant.
Cpo letter from me to D., dated September 2nd. .. What is wrong 1 Are
you hurried, or worried, or what is the matter 1 I am not happy about you."
*(26) &ptember 11th. Halll, 9 a.m.
No. I was not playing ; only thinking of mU5ic, and wanting to play.
(27) The following entries are grouped together in .D.'s note·book, and
Digitized by Google
382 .A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
88 they are out of place were presumably made from her private diary after
she knew of the photograph.
Augtlst 12th. Wanted a picture of X., talked a~tlt it, Baid rd .et my
heart 1m it for thil autumn, bllt didn't lIIle how I toa8 W get it 1WU'. N.B.-
Thought I Bhould, though.
13th to 18th. Thought of my picture most daYB. Watched letter. for hint
ofpoIIIIibility. Tried to find IYlIt X.'. train tip on Saturday. WiU she 00« time
to see? Or on MOllday 1 . • • Evidently not Saturday-train too late.
19th. No hillt ofplan [i.e., in X.'sletters, as to possibility of photograph
being taken that day]. Time to-morrow.
20th. No letter. Plwto instead 1 Hear to-morroto.
21st. Letter to-day frlYln X., saying, "No time W do my Jioppin!1, etc."
[i.e., in passing through London, where D. imagined that a photograph might
be taken]. Can't help it! Time or flO time my picture will come, and rm
11m that H. iI mi;(oed up il~ it aome1ww. PerOOpa she told X. I tea-nted the
picture. • . •
(]p. from D.'s letters.
Auguat 211t. We must get another [portrait taken] soon.
22,m. I must have a new one.
30th. When your packet came to-day, I made sure it W88 a photograph,
but how or when it could have been taken I don't know, when I come to think.
On August 9th, without any hint or suggestion from D., and unknown to
anyone but B., I made arrangements with the photographer for a large
portrait. On Monday, 20th, the likeneSB W88 taken, 88 I passed through
London. D. was never told of the fact till September 13th.
B. corroborates my reference to her share in the matter, and is confident
of having given 110 sort of hint uf her knowledge that D.'s wish, when fint
mentioned (August 12th), was already on the way to become an accomplished
fact.
(28) October 3rd. At J.'s hOIIM. No time for eggs.
I wanted some new-laid eggs, and it occurred to me that D. could get me
some on h~r way from J.'s (four miles away from home) if I had but
remembered to ask her. About 4 p.m. I thought of trying to make her get
some, and was disappointed when she came in without any. I made no
remark at the time, but the next day D. said, "I very nearly brought you
some eggs yesterday, I fancied you wanted me to do so, but I had to hurry
to catch- my train."
D. goes to the village in question about once a week, and during the last
3 years may have brought me eggs two or three times, so the commission
was 110t a very probable one.
D. adds later. "Probably I left by the 4.20 traill, passing tIle shop some
five minutes earlier" [so that my desire W88 a little delayed in transmission.
or reached her conlciousn088 at sight of the means to execute it].
(29) October 4th. Portrait.. early, X. knew it.
While I WM at breakfast I felt that D. had received the portraits
[which there W88 no special reason to expect] and that she would bring
them at once, and went out on to the balcony for some time to watch for
her. [She came about 9.30 a.m.]
(30) October 11th. Called e;cpectedly, 6.30.
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 383
D. and I were each supposed to be .. At Home," so that I had good
reason for not expecting to see her. About 6 1 felt she was coming, and
when she arrived was waiting for her on the stairs, though there were
visitors in the drawing-room.1
(31) October 14U~. Oame into church, 211d luson. O"t of sight, not out of
mind.
I had no reason to expect to see D. in church, indeed she had promised
to fetch me after service, but during the second lesson I felt her enter,
though absolutely out of light. On meeting her outaide the door in going
out, I said at once, "You have been in church, you came in during the
second lesson." [D. corroborates this.]
H., who, though I was not aware of it, was sitting behind me in church,
adds :-" I saw that X. was aware of D.'s arrival, which I at the same
moment had seen, which she'could not."
(32) October 26th. Oalled late, 9.30, door open ready.
I wrote the following note in my pocket-book :--" 9.15. Sometbing
wrong with D. If she does not come I must go to her. Fridsy."
I had been up late the night before and wanted rest, but felt it inlposaible
to go to bed, D. seemed to be whistling for me. [As before explained, the
usual signal when either entered the house.] I left my door ajar after
writingthe above note, and was waiting when she came. She wanted immediate
help, and bad driven round to fetcb me, having only waited till she thought.
I should be alone. [D. corroborates this.]
*(33) November 18th. Okopil. Dead March, War March Athalie, 7.15-
8 p.m.
*(34) November 25th. Lieder, 7.30.
*(35) NOlJember 26th. Lied, neller gets finished. 5.15-20.
On e&ch of the above three occa.siQDS D. asked me next dsy what I had
played apd found she was right. My playiilg of the Lied on November
26th was interrupted by the arrival of visitors, and the un6nished air
naturally haunted me. D. writes: "On the day in question H. and I were
together. I said to her that I eould hear you playing-a Lied we both asso-
ciated with you-but tbat you never got beyond a certain part, which seemed
to be repeated. H. replied, 'It is strange you should say that. I can't
hea'r her, but I have been seeing her at the piano for lome minutes.'" [H.
corroborates this.]
My own special note-book was begun in May, 1888, and continued
till November, 1889, a period of 18 months, but it will alrea.dy have
been observed that records of psychical impressions, both before and
after fulfilment, had been made in my private diary before that date;
and during the 18 months in question I have preferred to record some
things which I believe to have psychical significance in my private
diary rather than in my special note-book. I give here all the
contemporaneous entries in my note-book except nine. Of these one
1 In reference to C&888 29 and 30, D. writes: " I distinctly remember tha' on each
of these OCC&Bions, your first remark wall • I knew you were coming, I've boon watch-
ing for you some time.' On the first occasion you aeked at once for the photograph."
Digitized by Google
384 .A Record 01 Telepathic [Oct. 25.
was a visual hallucination recorded before what I believe to have
been its cause was known to me. I consider it to be a good case, but
for private reasons do not wish to publish it. The other eight omitted
entries were all made after the coincidence was known to me. One of
them is omitted for private reasons, and seven of them because, though
I thought otherwise at the time, I am now disposed to attribute them
to mere chance coincidence. In thus dismissing them I would not,
however, be understood to imply that others may not also depend upon
-chance, but only that I believe them,-as do the friends to whom they
refer-to be something more.
I have not in all cases given the entries from my note-book
verbatim. In some cases I have abbreviated considerably, in others
.altered the wording to conceal identity. In no case, however, have I
.altered the notes so as to affect any inference connected with psychical
research that may be drawn from them, and I have asked Mrs. H.
~idgwick to compare my printed version with the original and verify
"this.1
As in the case of D.'s diary I have marked entries made before the
~vent was known with an asterisk. There are twenty-seven of these
~ntries made beforehand, and of these three, namely (33) and (48), in
which I was the percipient, and (6) where I attempted to impress D.,
must be regarded as failures, and (35) and (45) 'as doubtfully veridical.
The other twenty-two entries seem to me to have been justified by facts.
It is, however, sometimes difficult to judge how far the apparent success
may be attributed to chance, and each reader must estimate this for
himself. It will be noticed that two of the successful impressions (12)
anq (46) were negative; or, more properly, they are records of the
absence of expected impression-it being afterwards found that the
expected cause had not occurred. These seem to me to have a certain
interest as showing that expectation does not-necessarily, at leas~
produce these impressions.
In two of the successful cases recorded beforehand, (2) and (21), I
was the agent, my friends D. and H. respectively being the percipients.
I was also the agent, though without any definite intention on my part,
in six of the cases recorded after the event;-D. being the percipient in
(3), (4), a negative case, and (7), and H. in (20), (22), and (25). All
these successful cases of agency are connected with my music. Perhaps
because it is my most complete means of self-expression, I find in it
also the readiest method of concentration, and, therefore, have often
availed myself of it when wishing to communicate with friends at &
(listance, playing for a few minutes-not with the intention that they
shall neces.<;arily hear the music, though that happens at times, but
1 I have carefully compared X.'s note-books with the printed version and can
entirely confirm what she says above.-E. M. SmGWICK.
Digitized by Google
188~.] and other Experiences. 385
mainly that they shall become aware of the direction of my thoughts at
the moment. D., and, as will be seen, also H., have still more often
recorded the hearing of my music without any intention on my part.
probably because my own thoughts have been thereby focussed and
absorbed. In the same way, some years ago, a friend at a distance,
deeply interested in, but not sharing my studies, would often know
with what particular subject, sometimes with what book, I was occupied
at the time, occasionally at very unlikely hours.
It IIl$Y be worth calling attention to the fact that of my fifty-fi\'e
entries, fifteen (seven recorded beforehand and eight after) relate to
D., and twelve (four recorded beforehand and eight after) to H. In
one case (17), not recorded beforehand, there seems to have been
mutual percipience between H. and myself. I have thought that it
would be convenient to separate the cases relating to D. and H. in
printing the note-book, though the chronological order is, of course,
thereby sacrificed.
(1) June sm. I am to-day reminded of something which happened a.
fortnight ago and for which there is a note in my diary of May 21st. D. told
me that afternoon that soon after we first becamo acquainted she had heard.
me play an air with which she had childish associations and which she would
like to hear again, but as she could neither remember the tune nor its
name, and as it was at least ten years since she had heard me play it, it did
not seem likely that her desire should be gratified. I played sevaral old
tunes, of which I thought one might be that in question, but did not succeed
in recalling what she wished. Perhaps an hour later, when we were sitting
in another room, tslking of things quite apart from the music, I suddenly
had the feeling that the tune wanted was at my finger tips. I started up,
called my friend and hurried down to the piano. On the stairs someone·
spoke to me, but I dared not wait to answer, for the music seemed to be
getting, so to speak, less tangible every instant. By the time I reached the
instrument, only a few bars remained in my poSleSlion, but my friend at
once recognised them as the long 10lt melody. I had no idea what it waSt
though I thought I had heard it before, and try as I would I could not.
recall the remainder.
To-night I have quite accidentally found it to be a fragment of a Sonata.
of Mozart, in a volume I have certainly not played from for years.
*(2) Thursday, J1l1le 7th. 5.40 p.m.
I don't know whether D., who is &.way from home, will expect me to write·
to her to-day, 80 I am going to compromise by trying to make her know I
am thinking of and playing to her. I shall play from now till 6.45, about an
hour.
Friday, June 8th. I met D. at the station this afternoon, and almOlt.
the first question she asked was, .. What were you doing about 6 o'clock last
evening 1" She had been out for a walk and was just settling again to ber
occupation wben she became aware of me. This lasted about'half an bour,
abe says. [Not entered in D.'s disry, but read over and endorsed by her.]
(3) J1l/Ile 14th. I was expecting D. between 5.30 and 6 O'clock, and
Digitized by Google
386 .A Record of Telepathic [Oc~. 25,
after tea went to the piano, impatient for her coming, as I wanted her
particularly. Occupied with other thoughts I played a waltz of Beethoven,
rather absently, two or three times. About a quarter of an hour after I had
left the piano, D. came in and said, "HOlD you have been playing that
Hoffnung!" [meaning that the music had persisted in attracting her atten-
tion]. She had been detained by visitors, and had heard it with the
impre88ion that I particularly needed her.
(4) JIIly 7th. It is perhaps worth noting that D. said to me a day or
two ago that she hoped abe was not losing the power of hearing my music
at a distance, for she had not done so for at least a fortnight. I hall not
told her that, except a little company playing which does not count, I had
not touched the piano for nearly three weeks, a fact almost unprecedented
in the last few years of my existence. .
*(5) J1UY 14th. I sat up till 10.30 this evening expecting D., though it
aeemed improbable, almost impo88ible, ahe should come. I have not called
her, so where my fancy came from I don't know. Now I have given her
up and come to my room. [D. bad been spending the day at aome distance
and had gone upon a somewhat troublesome and unpleasant buaineBB.]
July 15th. D. eaid to-day, without being questioned, that on her way
home last evening [this would have been about 10 p.m.] she had tried to
contrive a visit to me, but having friends with her, had not been able to
manage it. (Endorsed by D.)
*(6) July 18th. 2.10 p.m. There is a tremendous thunderstorm going on.
While at lunch, 1.30 to 2, my thoughts turned to D., who is at K. Then I
remembered an occasion years ago when we were there in a storm, and the
corner where we eat, and wondered if she would remember it. Now I am
desiring that she should find the place and go there.
This proved a failure.
July 20th. Not quite. D. mentioned to-day that dnring the atorm the
picture of our dark corner had occurred to her, and she had remembered its
whereabouts and thought had I been there we would have BOught its ahelter
again.
(7) J1UY 19th. Under date July 7th I referred to D.-a not having
"heard" llIe play for BOme time. To-day I played again from about 7 (p.m.)
to 7.40, and I was not surprised when at 8.30 D. appeared eaying that I
had been calling her, and she had come directly she could get away.
(Endorsed by D.) [I had not intended to call D.]
(8) J1UY 21st. I had been accompanying a friend on the piano and
then tried to playa solo, but though I can generally play from memory
for hours, nothing would come. At last in despair I left the piano, and
found myself asking my friend for a song I particularly didn't want, and
wMch was found aftersome difficulty. D. eays she had determined that I
should play that, not knowing that I really dialiked doing so. I think thia
is the tirst time D. has intentionally influenced me in this way. I ought to
say that yesterday I had eaid to D. that the song had haunted me, and she
had remarked she ahould like to hear it again, to which I returned no
answer.
D.', note OIl above. (Made a little later.) " I should like to add to thia
that there were three things in my mind when X. eat down to the piano,
Digitized by Google
1889.] alld other Experiences. 387
(I) the song, which I hardly thought our friend could sing that day, (2) a
reverie, an old favourite, (3) a recently heard Impromptu of Schumann.
X. tried several things, could remember nothing to her own 8&tisfaction, and
finally stopped with the exclamation, 'It's all D.'s f"ult, she wanta some-
thing else,' and then added, playing the first few ban of (2), 'This is
ir, but I can't play it now, will this do l' beginning (3), and then asked for
the song."
(9) Jtdy Zlth. I spent this morning with V. D. walked with me
to the houae, but I particularly asked her not to call for me, as I did
not wish to be tied as to time, and she agreed. I left about one o'clock
and crossed over into another street at right angles. After going about 50
yards I felt impelled to return to my starting point. This happened again,
and yet again, to my great annoyance, as I was anxious to get home. On
my return for the third time, I waited a few minutes, and looking carefully
in all directions, 8&W nothing to detain me, and at that moment got ka'lJe to
return home. At some little distance I met D., who had, after all, come to fetch
me,-reached a point from which she could see me, though quite out of the
range of my vision, just 88 I was looking about for the cause of my hindrance,
and, at the moment when I had the impulse to start, waa waving an umbrella
to indicate which of two ways, equally convenient, I should take. Had
I started homeward as I originally intended, we should have missed
each other, 88 D. approached me from the other direction. (D. endorses
this.)
(10) August 4th. D. and I were ill the train this morning. We had
not spoken for some time, when suddenly I had an impulse to say,
., What time would you like me to go to S. to-morrow 1" [referring to a
place which had not been mentioned between us, but which abe frequently
visited, though 1 had not done so for nearly five years]. D. was a good desl
startled, and confessed that she had been resolving to restrain a desire to uk
me to accompany her the next day,-a wish I had certainly no reason to
expect. (D. endorses this )
.. (11) August 9th. 7.35 p.m. D. called me just now in tones of excite-
ment and pleasure. As she left me an hour ago with the prospect before
her of a very dull evening I am glad she should be finding things pleaaanter
than ahe expected.
Aug1lat 10th. I have uked D. about this. In fact, she found an unex-
pected source of entertainment about 7.30, and remembers exclaiming in
much delight, at one particular moment. She, for special reasons, asaociates
what was pleaRing her wi~ me. (D. endorses this.)
.. (12) November 20th. D. has been disappointed by the non-arrival
of a picture which ahe has been anxiously expecting for some days.
To-day she decided to wnit no longer, and (in my hearing) told a maid to
drive to the frame-maker's and bring it home. Knowing that she would
return about 4.30 or 5 o'clock, I told D. that I would "listen" about that
time (that I might hear her exclamations of satisfaction or the contrary).
It is now 7 o'clock and nothing has happened.
N_ber 21st. Servant prevented from going after all. (D. corroborates
and signs this.)
.. (13) NOtJember 28th. 10.25 (p.m.). Has D. got the picture1 She is
Digitized by Google
388 A ReCord of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
excited abOllt something. We did not expect it till the 31st. I thought I
heard her about 8.15, but now certainly.
D."llote (m above. I opened the picture jU8t after 8, and at 8.15 was
writing to X. to tell her of ita arrival. H. and I were looking at it together.
about 10.20-30, H. haring called on her way home from a concert where I
had sent her word of the long-expected arrival.
*(14) Janl/ary 29th, 1889. Knew D. was sending for letter. Just
written 10 to 5. (Later nQte). At 5 o'clock D.'8 note came, dated 10 to 5.
In D.'8 note-book under this date is the entry :-" Letter 10 to 5 o'c.
Do. 10 to 5 o'c. from X."
P.S. i,l dinry dated November 8th, '89. My note referred to above still
en8ta. It begins: .. You've been pestering me the whole afternoon, you
and H. between you!" H., asked at the time by D., said she was walking
with a friend between 3 and 4, talking of me.
(15) March 5th. This monling I walked to D.'s house, expecting
to find her ready to go out with me at ten o'clock according to
previous arrangement. As I came in sight of the house I saw her
come down the path, pass through the garden gate and turn quickly
into a road under the garden paling8 in the oppo8ite direction from me.
I was 8urprised that 8he should not have seen me in 8pite of my signals, and
annoyed at her leaving the house exaotly at the time arranged for myarrival.
The clock struck while I was in the hall speaking to the maid, she said
that D. had gone out a few minutes before, and could not under-
stand my saying that I had that moment seen her leave the house.
About two minutes past ten D. returned, having been t.() tho post-office, the
walkthere and back taking six or seven minutes,80 that she must have started
five minutes before I saw her. She says she was obliged to go to the postand had
hurried, her mind occupied with the fear of my arriving in her abAence.
[The maid a88ured me that no one else had left the house, and it would have
been almost impouible to mistake anyone else for a figure with which I am
so familiar.]
(16) A u!1ust 19th. I have believed for some time past that H. waa
sensitive to my influence, but as I have never spoken to her on the
subject, though I have reason to believe that she, too, is aware of it,
I have not been able to record instances. However, two have occurred
to-day in which there seems t.o be more than chance coincidence. I was
about to take a walk to a plaoe a short distance from home, and desired
companionship. I thought of H., who, however, has never been associated
with me in any such way, and wished that it wete po88ible to communicat&
with her. About 10.45 I heard the bell, and hastened to open the door
myself, certain that it was H. She had been unable to resist an impulse to
come and tell me that she would like to go out with me this morning, but
would not be at liberty to do so. [H. a few weeks later read over and
endorsed this statement in my diary.]
(17) I arranged to go out with her at 15 to 4 (p.m.) when she was to calI
for me, and I said I would stay in till that time. In the end I changed my
mind, and went out intending to be home before the hour appointed. As I
was returning, in a hansom, rather late for my appointment and very
anxious to reach the house before H.'s arrival, I had a sudden impulse to
Digitized by Google
1889.] ancl other Experiences. 389
direct the cabman to drive down a side Btreet, not the nearest way. Half-way
down I found H. standing, apparently waiting. Sho waB on her way to me,
but Buddenly found heraelf unable (consciouB that the impulse to wait came
from me) to get beyond the point where I found her,-Btill at some diBtance
from our house. (H. haa endoraed this entry.)
(18) NOf!ember3rd. 10.40 p.m. H. very strongly in my mind to-night.
I saw her thiB afternoon, but nothing that OCCUlTed is any reaaon for feeling
that she pRrticularly wants me. I began a letter to her about half an hour
ago, but gave it up, with the feeling that I would rather, if Bhe haa anything
to say, she Bhould tell me without hint from me. But I have no rt>aaon for
any such feeling.
Note on above by H. :-" This Bame evening a Btrong desire came over
me to tell X. • • • [of certain private mattera of which X. had no
knowledge]. About 7.15 (p.m.) I wrote an account for her to read • • •
but much later, between 10 and 11 (p.m.), I decided not to send it, but to
talk to her instead."
(19) December 9th. I waa sitting alone about 10 minutes ago, it is now 9.50
(p.rn.), when I heard Bteps, and felt a presence, and that 8Omeone waa wanting
me. Now and then, in an emergency, D. baa come to me at a late hour, but
knowing her to be confined to the house just now, I waa, contrary to cUBtom,
very much frightened. Almost immediately after, however, I heard my
name called, distinctly twice, and I think faintly again. I knew at once it
waa not D., for Bhe never use! my formal Christian name; this excludes alao
many other friends. I cannot say I recognised the voice, which, though
clear, seemed a long way off, but I think it may have been H., who at
present is at fa place diBtant about 50 miles].
Deeembe7·10th. Spoke of this to D., who agrees it W&8 probably H.
(Endoraed by D.)
From H.'s note-book, .December 9th, 1888 :-" I waa sitting alone thiB
evening in a partly darkened room, with a book X. had given me on my
lap, and had let my thoughts wander away. I started up Buddenly, and
called X.'B name two or three times,-ahe must have heard me, I am
afraid, and I have disturbed and perhaps worried her unnec888&l"ily. The
time must have been about 9.30 or, may be, rather later." 1
(20) December 31st. D. had a letter from H. this morning dated yester-
day, aaking, "Ia X. playing now 1 (5.45)" In fact I tea.! playing, though
the hour WI\8 unusual. D. waa not well, and had been indoora all day,
and I played before instead of after dinner for the sake of change for her.
(Endoraed by D.)
From H.'B note-book, December 30th. 5.50 (p.m.) X. haa juat begun
to play.
*(21) DecemlJfr 31st. This evening I played from 8.30 to 9.30 . • .
One thing I believe haa made itself heard which I played for H. Perhaps
I shall know. (Endoraed by D.)
January 2nd, 1889. Letter from H., dated January lat, says, "You
played to· me laat night and I thank you,-you helped me."
1 It may be worth mentioning that twice subsequently, both times in the middle of
the day, H. notes a strong impulse, which she however suppressed, to call my name in
moments of anxiety, hut I was not aware of any corresponding impression.
2 c
Digitized by Google
390 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
(22) January 7th. Letter to D. from H. dated 6th, "I heard X. playing
(i.e., last night). Did she leave off about 9.15-20 1" Do's note-book,
January 5th, shows: .. X. played 8.30-9.20."
In connection with H.'8 impressions at the time concerninlf me, the following-
entry in her diary for January llth,l889, is worth mentioning :_u 8.l5(a.m.} Some-
thing wrong with X. and D. I 8hall know 8OOn." Within about an hour she received
a telegram desiring her to meet me at the station the same Idternoon; the fact being
that I, then visiting in a distant county, had, IIOOn after eight the same morning,
received bad news which necessitatl><i my immediate return,-when D., unable to
IICClOmp&ny me, had at once conceived the notion of asking H. to meet and otherwise
&88ist me.
(23) JIJtmary 15th. H. arranged to go out witll me if pOBBible this
morning at 11 o'clock-was not sure if she could leave home so early. At
10.201 was so lure she had atarted that 1 at once dreBBed for walking,
and was ready when ahe arrived at 10.30, half an hour before her time. (H.
endorses this.)
(24) April 15tll. This morning D. and H. agreed to fetch me at
one o'clock. I WIUI ready a few minutes before, and was starting to
meet them when 1 felt impelled to walk in the direction contrary to that
from which they would naturally come. After a few paces, 1 heard H.
hurrying after me. She said that she and D. had [without my knowledge]
made plans for the morning which would have resulted in their joining me
from the direction I had taken, but at the la.st moment D. had been obliged
to go elsewhere. (H. endorses this.)
(25) May 17th. This morning 1 wa.s ready before the time when H. was
to come for me, and so sat down to the piano, to try to make her hear me. 1
had hardly played five minutes wlu'n H. came in saying, "You began that
just as I turned the corner three minutes ago, 1 heard the opening bars."
[I know from experiment that it is not possible to hear my piano outside the
houae, even when standing immedistely below the drawing-room windows.]
[H.'s note-book gives a similar account but places it on tho 16th instead
of the 17th. Probably the error is mine.]
*(26) August 20th. "Saw" H. 'a umbrella on my chest of drawers at
6.30 this morning. Has she found it 1 [Premonition:] She will meet me
at B. station to-day.
[R. had a few days before lost an umbrella ahe particularly valued. I
was going to pay a visit at her houso, and B. was three stations before the
end of my journey.]
E1Ieni"!J of saine day. (1) H. says she woke at 6.30. Saw it was raining
and feared 1 should not come. (2) She came to B. station (not a likely
thing to do) just as my train was leaving, but saw me and got into another
carriage.
(27) NO'lJllmbel' 2nd. 1 went to viait D. this afternoon. [When
approaching the house] 1 saw H. standing inside the gate, six yards from me,
dre8Sed in a costume which I have not seen since last winter. 1 was not
thinking of her at the time. 1 knew she was ill in bed and therefore was not.
surprised to find that no one was inside the gate nor anyone near. 1 said at
once to D., "Notice the time, something has happened to H." It was 4.20
(p.m.). At six we went together to inquire after H., and asked her what she
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 391
had been doing or thinking of at 4.20. We wero disappointed when she
owned to not having thought of me, or of anything of consequence-nothing
in fact except that she hoped to be well enough to bring B. to see D. on
Monday, and that as this would be her first time of going out she must
put on her winter clothing [in which I had seen the figure]. (D. and H.
endorse this.)
*(28) NUt~ 5th, 5.15 p.m. I was wondering just now whether H.
had been well enough to go out, when I saw in the silver stand of the lamp
the view from the nursery window at D.'s, with H. and B. in the l"Oftd.
Nm:ember 6th. At tea yesterday C. told D. she had seen H. and B. walk-
ing slowly by. D. writes: .. I remember this, and that X. showed us the
above entry in her note-book immediately after."
*(29) May 31'd, 1888. 2 p.m. Here is a premonition! Mrs. Y. will call.
I keep "hearing" her carriage, which has a jingle peculiar to itself. On
the whole it seems unlikely, as not only did I tell her I should be away this
week, but I hear she is away too. We shall see.
4.45. Heard her jingling horses stop at the door five minutes ago,-
heard no ring-looked out-nothing visible.
5.30. Enter M. Sorry to call so late, waited on purpose .. till Mrs. Y.
had had time to go." Explains-Mrs. Y.lunched with her and said then she
would come to me at tea-time. Mrs. Y. expressed her intention while at
lunch. I first heard her bells at about 1.45. However, here she isn't.
May 4th. Wrote to Mrs. Y. to ask where she was yesterday between
four and five, and if she thought of me.
May 7th. She writes, "Yes, I thought of you on Thursday, but earlier
than the time mentioned. I had hoped to come and see you but found
after all I could not manage it."
(30) May 11th. I read a question ofrV.'s mind to.day aud wrote down the
anlwer before she had spoken it [the answer is preserved]. I was writing and
felt irritable enough-when she began slowly, "Do-you-know1"-to present
rather a cross face when I looked up. This or something else made her
stop and I saw the question coming and Iv.lribbled down 1442 before saying
"Go on," when she asked, "What is tho date of the invention of printing 1"
V. was reading ill a magazine. There was nothing to lead up to this.
(31) May 16UI. In the light of a letter from R.F. received this morn-
ing I copy the following from my private diary:-
Thursday, January 12th. I wonder if anything is wrong at-1 I have
been worried all day about N.F. without knowing why. I don't think
lowe her a letter and don't like to write with no better excuse than my own
fidget. Nothing has occurred to suggest the thought of her, which makes
me the more uneasy.
Janusry 14th. N.F. in my mind again. Wonder why 1
January 25th. Thought constantly of N.F. Hope all is well with all
of them.
The letter referred to, dated May 13th, from a sister of this friend, tells
mo that N.F. has been very seriously,ill, aud was during January "between
life and death." [Further inquiries show that her most critical condition
was "about the middle of the month."]
*(32) June ut, 1888. I am haunted to-day with tho~ghta of T.R., an
2 c'2
Digitized by Google
392 .A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
uninteresting member of an uni~teresting family. Nothing has happened to
put him into my head, but all sorta of trifling circUDIstances about him have
been recurring to my memory all day. I don't owe the R.'s a call, so there
is no reason why they should be on my mind, and though I respect them
highly, I have neither aJl'ection for nor interest in anyone of them. Mon-
day is their "at home" day, and I will make a point of calling nllxt week to
aee if anything has happened to T.
Saturday, JUlie 211d. Not long to wait. A letter from V. this morn-
ing, asking for my congratulations for her sister engaged yesterday to
T.R. Never more surprised in my liIe!
*(33) JUlie 9tll. 6 to 7 p.m., at intervah. Haunted this evening by a
smell of sweetbriar, so much so that I was about to exclaim, how strong tho
scent was after the rain, when I remembered we hadn't had any-nor, as it
happens. any scented Howers. . . . It is strong enough to impress me
strongly, and no one else observes it. [This was never explained.]
(34) JlIne 12th. I had been thinking a good deal of Mrs. T., and
hoping to see her soon though not consciously calling upon her to come
[See p. 364]. About 4.30 I heard the click of her silver-handled umbrella
as it was laid on the table outside the door, and the rustle of a parcel laid
beside it, and wondered I had not heard the door-bell. Nothing further
happened till about 10 minutes later when the bell rang, I heard the door
opened, and the same sounds followed, though not more vividly than before,
and Mrs. T. entered saying, "You ought to want something important this
time,-my husband has rheumatic gout and my coming was most incon-
venient."
*(35) June 19th. " 10.5 a.m. J. is shouting, 'Powler.' Cat found 1"
These words I scrawled in a pocket-book just as I was going out, the very
minute the impression occurred. J.'s pet cat, whom we all valued, had been
lost for more than a week, nnd we were all in some anxiety as to his fate.
Yelling the cat's name at him is a frequent habit of his master's. About
two o'clock a telegram arrived to say the cat had come home. This I gather
was about one o'clock. [So my impression was premature. I find on inquiry
that J.'s meeting with the cat did occur, in fact, about one o'clock, though
it had returned home some hours earlier.]
*(36) June 21st. I had a very strong impreBHion [not visual] this
morning that N. was present with me, and the sensation has renewed itself
very strongly just now, 3 (p.m.). With a notion she may want some help
of me I have writt.en her a note (on an indi1l'erent matter) requiring an
answer, so as to give her a ready opportunity of telling me, if she will,
what is in her mind.
Jldy 1st. N. has been here this evening,-tells me she half decided to
come to me on Thursday, 21st, in reference to a matter which required
immediate decision, but had not time to do so.
*(37) Jmie 21st. " Saw" K. to-day in a hansom, which proved on
nearer approach to be empty. Spoke of it to D.
JUlie 22nd. E.K. mentioned incidentally'that K. had arrived to-day and
that she heard of this sudden and somewhat inconvenient movement yester-
day morning by telegram.
(38) J1dy lltl~. My doctor has been' anxious that I should spend part of
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 393
the autumn at [a Gemlan Bath], but so many practical difficulties presented
themselves that I had almost given up the idea. By what seemed a fortunate
coincidence I have received from a lady with whom I am but recently
acquainted, an unexpected invitation to pay her a long visit at the very place
my doctor suggests. I promised her an early roply, with every intention of
sending a grateful acceptance. Though my friends have consented to the
plan, my mind iusisted on framing aentencea in which to refuse the tempting
offer, and in spite of inclination I found myself incapable of producing any
letter which should not decline the l)ropoaition, and this letter, on July 6th,
I finally despatched. On July 7th I received a visit from the friend through
whom I had made the acquaintance of the lady who sent me the invitation,
and for the first time leanlt certain facts conceming her which, though
not in themaelves discreditable, would, had I known of them earlier, have
been quite sufficient to deter me from identifying myself with her movements.
*(39) July 9t1~. It stmck me this morning that S.T. might as well do
my busineB8 in-and Bave me a jounley, and alao that as his mother ia coming
to lunch to-morrow he is very likely to fetch henway, and I can apeak to him
about it then. Since then my mind has been clictating what seems a fairly
sensaleM note, so persistently, that I write it down to aee what happena.
"You'd much better come to tea with me than go to see J. to-morrow,
for two good reasons :-(1) I shall be in and I want you, and (2) J. will be
out, and he doesn't."
I have no reason to auppose that S.T. is going to J.'a to-morrow, and I
have good reason for believing that J. will be at home, as I understood that
D. was going to lunch at his house.
JUly 10th. Mrs. T. announced, as BOOn as ahe arrived to-day, that she
could atay all day to help me with something, for on retuming home after
BOme early ahoppillg this moming she found that S. had gone out leaving
word that he was going to aee J. and should not be in to lunch. D. also
called early to Bay she had changed her plana, having heard from J. that
he was obliged to go out for the day. (D. endorses this.)
*(40) ..4tlg1~ 5th. I had some papers I particularly wanted to deliver in
person to Mrs. M., and for this purpose went by train [to the place, three
miles away, in which she lives]. As I was tuming out of the atation, I had
a so distinct, though but momentary, vision of her in my own neighbourhood,
that feeling it to be useleBB to call at her house, I nearly tumed aside to
pay another visit. However, I thought I might as well dispose of my parcel,
and clid BO. She was out, but baa not called here. I am often able to follow
her movements at a distance and am disappointed this baa failed. [She
appeared to be atanding near a floriat'a shop in the main road, 1\8 if about
to tum in the direction of our house. She wore a white dreBS, and I
distinctly BaW the background of flowers.] The next day I received from
her a note, which I now quote :-" I have been in your neighbourhood to-day
about the time you were in mine,-[ahopping] at G.'a and "early called on
you."
[G.'a shop is exactly opposite that near which, in my vision, she appeared
to be standing, and I have ascertained that she was wearing a white dreBB.]
(41) ..411g111t 9th. This moming I was on the balcony, when I heard A.
calling my name in an impatient manner. Knowing that she was in the
Digitized by Google
394 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25,
room behind the drawing-room, and that I could not [as haa since been
proved by experiment] roally have huard her, I was tempted to diamiss the
sound as fancy. On again hearing my name, I returned into the house, but
not till I reached the landing beyond the drawing-room did I find that she
was really calling me. She had dropped the stick without which ahe cannot
walk, and was a priaoner till someone should come to her help.
(42) Augllst 9th. 8.30 p.m. A few minutes aince, I was watering some
flowers on the landing. and was about to replace the water-can in my
room when, hearing the maid preparing it for the night, closing the window,
drawing the curtaina, &c., &c., I waited below till she ahould come down.
To my surprise she came upstairs directly after, followed by a new house-
maid. I suggested that someone had already done my room, but she
declared I was mistaken. She had but just before been telling the new
n18id, in detail, what there was to do, and had come upstairs to see it done.
I was so convinood by the sounda I had heard that I went with them to see,
but of course found the window still open, and the room in ita usual day-time
condition.
(43) Aug1lst 10th. I am leaving town to-morrow and so am very
busy. A new maid happened to be answering the door, and when I said I
did not want to aee anyone who might call, unle88 it were M., she 118turally
asked II what sort of a lady" M. was. I was about to describe her as tall,
fair, &c., when a vision of N. came so vividly before me that I had to say
., small, dark, dreBBed in black." [I was. ape,'\king to the nl8id in the hall. As I
8tood on the bottom step of the atairs, t he figure of N. appeared to be
standing behind the nl8id as if ahe had just entered the houso.] I waa
wondel'ing what the result would be, whether M. would be sent away or N.
announced as M., when N. herself appeared to pay a hurried visit on a
matter of aomeconsequence, and she said more than once, "I WaB so afraid I
ahould not find you at home," &C. [Honesty obliges me to add that N.,
for the first and last time in my 15 years' experience of her, was dressed in
white /]
(44) A"J,,,t 26th. I WI\8 walking alone this morning and wandered
into the cricket field. While resting on one I)f the seats it occurred to my
mind that a brother who went abroad 14 years ago h4d been a member of
the club that owned this ground. Then I tried to recall his appearance, but
my memory refused to supply the required picture, ill spite of diligent con-
juring up of suitablo backgrounds, our old home, the garden, or the atables.
At last I took to my book and aoon forgot all else. Suddenly I felt that
someone was near, and looked up, somewhat startled. A man atood facing
me, at a distance of perhaps 12 feet. A aecond glance showed me that it
was the very brother whose image I had in vain tried to recall. The figure
"1\'1\8 very distinct, so much so that I feel it will remain in my memory as a
particularly vivid portrait. The shock made me involuntarily close my eyes,
-when I looked again, there was nothing.
*(45) October 11th. 12.30. I have just had a momentary but very distinct
vision of Z. I was writing-not thinking of anything which could in any
way suggest the thought of her,-paused for want of a word and was ataring
at nothing,-when, for an instant, I found her great sad eyes fixed upon me.
Almost before I cOllBCiously recognised her, the face had vanished. She
Digitized by Google
1889.] and otJter Experiences. 395
bas always had bad health,--Is she dead 1 If so, why should she appear to
me 1 It is months since 1 heard from any of the family.
5 o'clock p.m. This is [perhaps] in some sort explained more cheerfully
than my mind had suggested. Z. 's mother has just left the house. She and
her two elder daughters have come here on busineas leaving Z. at home.
[I have had no opportunity of finding out what Z. was doing.]
*(46) October 31&t. Heard that a matter of great importance to M.
is to be decided to-day. 1 declined to lunch with another friend because 1
thought the perception of M.'s distreas and anxiety would (according to
custom when she is in trouble, whatever the distance between us) so occupy
my sympathies 88 to unfit me for other occupations. On the contrary, it bas
required an effort to keep her in mind at all continuously, and I cannot help
wondering whether something may perhaps ha~e occurred to delay the
decision.
Norember 3rd. Letter from M. "The question will not be decided upon
for some weeks."
*(47) Norember 24th. Spent yesterday afternoon with D. and H., but was
80 causelessly diBlt'aite that they sent me to the piano to soothe myself.
After playing in the darkened room for some time, 1 stopped aud said to D.,
.. It is M.,- but it is not bad news,l am glad now." I then stopped and
-went home.
D. endorsea this. H. writes, "I did not hear x.'s remark to D., but X.
repeated it to DIe a few minutes later when 1 W88 drivinlf home with her."
November 27th. Letter from M. this morning. The matter W88 settled
on Friday, 23rd. She says, " Settled 88 I wished," and speaks of being much
relieved in mind.
*(48) NOI'ember 29th. 1 was sitting reading, about six o'clock this morn-
ing, holding a pencil in my right hand. Suddenly my hand began to write.
I diverted my attention by thll first device which presented itself-counting
the curtain rings. This was not e88Y, and before I had finished my hand
stopped. I had written, without stops or capitals-
"Not to be thought of think of your mother unfillial (sic) too far not to
be thought of."
I could think of nothing to which these remarks seemed in any degree to
apply, except to the fact of which I had heard this afternooD that S. B. had
received an excellent appoiutment in a distant country and was to sail
shortly. However, 88 his mother W88 particularly pleased about it, there
can be nothing unfilial in his conduct. My instinct applies the words to
S. B., but they are so unsuitable that it is perhaps altogether a mere
accident.
(49) Jalllla-ry 8th, 1889. Htard sad news of the 1088 of S. B.'s veasel.
Is this connected with my overwhelming but unexplained depression on
Wednesday and Thursday (2nd and 3rd)-climax Thursday afternoon, 3 to
to 5 o'clock 1
*(50) February 17th. This morning about 11.30-40 88 D. and I. were
walking,-speaking of mattel"B in no way connected with M.,-I was so
strongly impresaed by the sense of her at that moment wanting me that 1
spoke of it to D., saying that if I did but know her address 1 would write to
her. [She was then travelling abroad.]
Digitized by Google
396 A Record of Telepathic [Oct. 25.
February 19th. Letter from M. this morning, written on the 17th, begging
me to send her news of myself at once, (lr if ill to get D. to do so.
Note added ten days Jater :-" M. says mine was one of several letters
written on the 17th between 10 and lunch.
(51) June 14th. I was on my way to see L. this afternoon and wondering
a little anxiously whether she would be at home. Looking up, I saw on the
opposite side of the road, walking towardll me, B., looking straight at me and
laughing, but showing no consciousness of my presence. I stopped, thinking
he would cross and would tell me if L. were at home, and so save me perhaps
a useless walk, having probably come from her house. A carriage passed
and when I looked acrOS8 again there was 110 one visible. The road is quite
IItraight and no one could have had time to getout of sight. When I reached
L.'s house, the maid said at once, "They ha,-e all gone away to Mr. B.'s
wedding." I had not heard of this.
*(52) A"guilt 2ml. Before going downstairs to breakfast and to receive
my letters I note a dream, very trifling in its character, but which, having
OCCUlTed twice, has impressed me strongly.
I was very sleepless and, as usual, a trifle started up to worry me, the
fact that lowed Mrs. C. 2s. 6d. Every time I got in the least sleepy I woke
up with the burden of my annoyance at having forgotten it. At last I got up,
and, to comfort my conscience, took 2s.6d. out of my purse and laid it on the
table to remind me of my debt. I woke out of my first sleep with the vague
sense of having done wrong, but remembering I had done all I could to repair
it, went to sleep again and dreamt that a letter was in my hand from
Mrs. C., and that I knew it was to tell me I did not owe her anything. When
I woke it was light, and after reading for some time I went to sleep again and
dreamt I opened Mrs. C.'s envelope and a postal order dropped out, and that
I said to her maid, "So you see it was she who owed me money after all."
It was very vivid.
10 o'clock. Mrs. C. writes to say, Will I make a further purchase for her,
and encloses 58. order which, with my 2s. 6d., will be right!
(53) Septembef" 7th. I expected N. to-day, but as she did not arrive by
the train she mentioned I gave her up, and went for a walk. I was
returning down a steep hill, when I saw [the figure of] N. at the bottom,
moving, rather than walking, along the road which crossed my path at
Tight angles [and at perhaps 40 yards distance]. I saw only the upper
part of her figure, but that appeared with sufficient distinctness for me to
notice that she wore a brown dress with a black cape, and black bonnet. I
waved my handkerchief, but she disappeared. On reaching the bottom of the
hill I found a hansom cab, in which N. was seated, waiting at the comer.
On reaching home I asked her at once to write down what had happened,
and I quote from her account. .. My immediate question as X. joined me in
the cab was, How did you know I was in the hansom 1 You could not
possibly have seen me through the window. The path which X. was descend-
ing WaR at right angles to the road, along which the cab was driving at a
smart pace, and through the side-window I caught only a glimpse of a
figure waving a handkerchief, which from the signal I guessed to be hers,
,md so stopped the cab. I was dressed in a dark brown dress, black bonnet,
and black cape."
Digitized by Google
1889.] and other Experiences. 397
[I 8hould add that the figure 88 I saw it W88 apparently much nearer to
me than W88 her actual presence, also that though I aaw her against a dark,
moving background probably 8Uggested by the hanaom, a cab was a very
frequent object on the road, which was that direct from the station.]
*(54) October 14th. S.T. constantly in my mind to-day. Spoke of
it to D. Nothing to 8Uggest this. Perhaps Mrs. T. is in the neighbour.
hood and is coming to see me.
October 15th. Letter from Mrs. T. written yesterday. We do not
profess to correspond, but [she writes to tell me BOrne good news of S.].
(55) October 25th. Went to a meeting. Asked N. to meet me
there, but she wrote to say she should not have time. While the
meeting was going on I aaw her to our right, several roW8 in front,
apparently 8tanding between the seats, facing us and staring at me,
but when I tried to catch her eye she showed no recognition. and
when I pointed her out to the friend who was with me she could not 8ee
her. I afterwards found that she was sitting behind U8 and had come in late
just before I saw her.
[The friend who was with me write8 : "X. twice drew my attention to the
place where N. wam't; 8he was sitting by the door quite at the back, and
we didn't see her till we went out, when we spoke of this to her." N.
endorses this.]
The task of arranging this record of experiences brings to my view,
even more forcibly than before, their evidential deficiency. For the
most part, it may be said that the incidents which are well attested
are trivial, and that those which in themselves look striking lack
corroboration. This is almost inevitable in the case of one who
has but lately interested herself in the observation of such phenomena
in any but their personal relation, recording them only when they
affected the interests of herself or of those around her. As, however, I
cannot suppose them to be of rare occurrence, I shall feel that this
paper has served its purpose if it should suggest to others to record,
with more accuracy and continuity, phenomena of a similar kind.
Lives more varied and eventful will no doubt afford experiences extend-
ing to a further horizon, and ranging over a wider field.
Digitized by Google
