{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__oliver___signs_and_symbols.pdf","mytitle":"Signs And Symbols","mylang":"de"}
SIGNS AND SYMBOLS
ILLUSTRATED AND EXPLAINED,
IN A COURSE OF
TWELVE LECTURES
ON
FREEMASONRY.
BY THE REV. GEORGE QLIVER, D.D.
VJCAR OP' 8COPWJCK; INCUMBENT OP' THF. COLL!!!OJATK CHURCH, WOLVJ:RHAMPTOH j PRO·
. VINCIAL DKtUTY ORAND MASTER FOR LINCoLNf'HIRB; DOMB8TIC CH.o\PLAIN'
TO THE RIOHT HONOUR.ABL& LORD KIN81YOTON.
:- .....
"WhatisMasonry?'* •:::. •:: ••
" A beautiful System of Morantf, ~Ieirii).•An~t).·: !::!/
and illustrated by SYMBOLS." ! •• • • •. • ••• : : ; ·.
:··: ::.~-.: =··
---------'-· ....· ·:
:..!(~j:~·..\ [./~....
LONDON:
SHERWOOD, GILBERT, AND PIPER,
PATERNOSTER ROW.
MDCCCXXX~I.
.·
(
. \ •·
)
'
~~__,If'
~. · - ~· I
igitized by Go 1 ·
..... ·~
.... .·.·. : ·.... : .:::~
·..:..: : : ·: ·: ·: .....
:! :: ... .....•:
···! ::..:: :··:
.. .... . .
.. ......
..·.... .....~: :
·.::·.: :·.. ·..~:··:! ..:
·: : ::......
PJlfNTIID BY WILl.TAll \l"JLCOCitiOM, ROLLS BUJLDIKGe.
o1git1zed by Coogle
TO
IDS ROYAL IDGHNESS
PRINCE AUGUSTUS FREDERICK,
DUKE OF SUSSEX;
EARL OF INVERNESS; BARON OF ARKLOW;
KNIGHT OF THE MOST NOBLE ORDER OF THE GARTER;
PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY FOB THE ENCOUBAGEliiENT OF ABT81
IIANUFACTUBES1 AND COIUlEBCE; COLONEL OF THE
HONOURABLE ARTILLERY COMPANY;
MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND MASTER OF MASON~;
ETC. ETC. ETC.
THESE LECTURES
:: :;... . . ~
ARE (BY PERMISSION)ilftC~·lJED/(: i::;..·
. ' ...... ' .
:J::;:··.; ••• ··~.
WITH SENTIMENTS OF ~m.:;'•
;.: :; '
. .. . .... "' ·..
MOST PROFOUND RESPECT ANri· .~i,;~~~M~j••• ;'
' ~ -.. . :
BY HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS'S
OBLIGED
AND MOST DEVOTED HUMBLE SERVANT,
GEORGE OLIVER, D.D.
Digitized by Coogle
• • • • t •• ,"
..... " .~
:·:...; ·....·.
. ... . . ..
.. : :-:::! :!.:
:......~:; v;
. .
; . . .. . .
f ,t : e f: e.,. 'I
f ••• e le =
_
.::: ;·.·.: :. ~. • o ',
.. ·.·= .·.·,.
...
o,gitized by Coogle
PREFACE
LECTURE I.
LECTURE II.
LECTURE III.
LECTURE IV.
LECTURE v.
LECTURE VI.
LECTURE VII.
LECTURE VIII.
LECTURE IX.
LECTURE X.
LECTURE XI.
LECTURE XII.
CONTENTS.
PAOB
Vll
On the Hieroglyphical System of the
Ancients 1
On the All-Seeing Eye 23
On the Serpent 40
On the Cherubim 61
On the Deluge 81
On the Mysterious Darkness of the
Third Degree I09
On the Three Pillars, Wisdom,
Strength, and Beauty • 130
On the Masonic Ladder 147
On the Point within a Circle
On the Masonic Apron
On the Government of the Lodge
Conclusion of the Course
169
192
• 209
224
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
PREFACE.
IMPRESSED with a due sense of the high degree of respon-
sibility which is incurred by an attempt to illustrate the
Science of Masonry, I submit the following sheets to my
Brethren, in the confidence of hope, that I have succeeded .
in placing the Light in so luminous a point of view, that,
like the glorious J>illar which conducted the children of
Israel safely out of Egypt, it will enlighten the true Mason,
without affording a single ray to assist the forbidden investi-
gations of those who have a desire to penetrate the arcana
of Masonry, without submitting to the legitimate process of
initiation. With pure intentions I have used my utmost
endeavours to conceal from the prying eyes of uninitiated
c:uriosity, those essential points which have constituted Ma-
sonry into an exclusive system, and will remain an impene-
trable barrier between its professors and the world to the
end of time. Some passages may be found whose ultimate
sense will even be unintelligible to the ordinary Mason, and
known only to him who has been exalted to the Royal Arch.
It is hoped that the assiduous Brother, by the perusal of
these pages will be able to add considerably to his stock of
knowledge on this comprehensive subject. He will find, in
the high antiquity of those Emblems, where all the beauties
of Masonry lie concealed, new reasons for admiring the
Digitized by Coogle
viii PREFACE.
judiciousmechanism, and the refined morality ofthe Science;
and will conduct his researches with renewed alacrity and
spirit on discovering that the very same Symbols have been
used for a similar purpose by every nation and people, and
in all the secret institutions which have existed from the
creation to the present time.
In tracing the antiquity of these significant Emblems, we
are necessarily plunged deeply into the MYSTERn:s of an-
cient nations, which though founded on the principles of
primitive Masonry, and using the same symbolical imagery,
were not productive of the same results; because there ex-
isted a radical defect in their formation, which blighted every
genial principle, and counteracted the efficacy of em-
blematical instruction, which has an express tendency to
soften the manners and humanize the heart. They were
established for the purpose of placing a secret and uncon-
trollable power in the hands of the hicrophants and mysta.-
gogues, and hence every means was resorted to which 1-night
extend their influe_nce or increase their popularity. These
purposes being foreign to the primitive design, innovation
followed innovation, each succeeding change being a retro-
[ade movement from original purity, until, instead of a mild
and benevolent religion, thus renounced by gradual steps to
make room for superstitions more splendid and imposing,
their rites of divine worship became fierce and bloody, im-
placable and severe ; and this produced a corresponding
change in the disposition of the heart. Instead of the cheer-
ing ray of Hope, from which comfort and consolation were
derived by the ancient professors of pure Masonry, under
the pressure of adversity; the degenerate race were bowed
down with sadness and despair. The place of pure devo-
tion was usurped by obscene l'ites and ceremonial observances.
Digitized by Coogle
PREFACE. ix
In a word, LIGHT was rejected, and an unfathomable
Darkness had taken possession of the Soul. Hence severe
penances were instituted, which the wretched sufferers were
taught to believe would propitiate the wrath of heaven ; and
hence arose also, united with the perverted meaning of an
ancient prophecy, the horrid custom of sanguinary sacrifices,
in which the polluted altars of the gods were stained with
human gore.
The mysteries of Egypt contained all the secrets of their
religion and politics; and inspired dread and terror through-
out the world. By the uninitiated they were regarded as
vehicles of knowledge more than human ; and the dispensers
of them were reputed to possess some high and peculiar
attributes of the divinity. The initiated themselves were
struck with a sacred horror, at the recollection of that awful
solemnity which attended their own initiation; and dared
not even to name, or refer to them in familiar conversation,
lest their indiscretion should elicit the summary vengeance
of the justly offended deities.•
When Grecian philosophy began to prevail, the mysteries
were applied by wise men to the purpose of enquiring more
particularly after the nature and attributes of the Deity,
which though a legitimate pursuit of primitive Masonry,
had yielded to the introduction of popular innovations,
until the truth was obscured under a mass of absurdity and
fable. Their bold disquisitions varied from the monotony
of ancient practice, and differed essentially from each other;
whence many distinctive varieties were introduced into the
Lodges or Schools, which never before existed ; and the
doctrines were diversified according to the speculative
* Horap. 1. ii. od. 3.-Liv. 1. xxxi.
Digitized by Coogle
PBEFACB.
opinions of each Principal Superintendent. The.e Schools
bore every character of Masonry, except that one grand
and distinguished characteristic, which confers life and
vigour on all its proceedings, the true knowledge and worship
of the Deity. It is hi~hly probable that these philosophers
had some faint knowleJge of the true God, but they did
not worship him as God, preferring the creature to the
Creator; and in the lesser mysteries they substituted a rabble
of false deities to his total exclusion. In taking a brief view
of this succedaneum for Masonry, as it existed in every
nation of the world before the comiog of Jesus Christ, we
may see to what a skeleton of dry bones it was reduced
when forsaken by the spirit.
After Pythagoras had newly modelled the Mysteries;
and different sects of Masons, or Philosophers, (for Pytha-
goras gave the name of Philosophy as well as Mesouraneo
to our Science,•) began to entertain new and irreconcilable
opinions on the subject of research; their ~culations were
carried on in each Lodge with eager avidity, but without
adopting a selfish system of exclusion. Each body was in
the highest degree communicative; its members were ever
ready to instruct others in their peculiar dogmas; and all
united in the common pursuit ofsearching after truth. They
had very indistinct notions of the true God, though his name
was not unknown to them ; and entertaining gross and sen-
sual ideas of his nature, it is no wonder that Vice became
deifie.d, and that the commission of every unnatural lust,
was not only permitted, but even made a testof reverence
to the Deity.t Mercy was by one converted into a vice ;t by
* Cic. Tuscul. qurest. 5.-Valer. Maxim.
t Lucian de Dea Syr. ~ Laert. in vit. Zen.
Digitized by Coogle
PREFACE. xi
another, adultery was sanctified;• and fomicationt and
suicide:j: were the common practice of all. Thus the purity
of Masonry fled from these institutions as they retrograded
from the true worship of God ; and this purity it was that
they in yain endeavoured to recover. ·They practised vice;
but then they thought that it was virtue; they practised the
worship of (alse gods or d~mon..c;; but they verily thought,
until the later ages, when a few sects dissented from the
belief, that they were performing a service acceptable to
God, by practising the rites of true religion through the in-
tervention of mediators. And hence it is easy to demon-
strate, not only that Masonry as practised by Jews and
Christians, but also, that every resemblance of it in all parts
of the world, was professedly, if not practically devoted to
the perfecting of man's mental powers, that h~ might pa8s
through a life of virtue here, to the full enjoyment of it in a
future state.
Under what denomination soever our Science has been
known in the world; under what form soever it may have
been practised from the fall of man to the present time, it
has always been understood to have a distinct reference
to the worship of God, and the moral culture of man.
Whether it were received under the appellation of Pbos,
Lux, Synagoge, Mystery, Philosophy, Mesouraneo, or
Masonry;-whether practised by the antediluvians, the
Patriarchs, the Idolaters, the Jews, the Essenes, or the
Christians ;. in all ages and among all people it possessed
the same reference to the prominent truths of religion.
The idolatrous mysteries which were the most perfect imi-
tation of Masonry that could be practised by those who had
*Herod. t Laert. de Demet. : Laert. de Arist.
Digitized by Coogle
xu PREFACE.
renounced its distinguishing principles along with the true
worship of God, were founded to preserve amongst mankind
the nominal practice of religion, although the incense might
be offered to dremons on an idolatrous altar; and they were
usually celebrated in conjunction with the rites of divine
worship. Thus were they generally applied to the purpose
of perpetuating a knowledge of the divinity, and the doctrine
of a future state of rewards and punishments; as well as to
fix in the minds of the uninitiated vulgar, a deep and solemn
rev~rence for the duties of religion.• It is scarcely neces-
sary to enlarge on this point, because the fact is universally
notorious; nor shall I discuss the unessential difference in
each of theM! Mysteries, as that would involve many useless
repetitions, for their nature and object were universally the
same. The characteristic propensities of a people, the state
of their progress from barbarism to civilization; their intel-
lectual attainments, the character of their government, or
their intercourse with other bations, might and did create
some distinction in the ceremonial, but the great essentials,
broadly struck out by the Cabiric priests, did never vary.
The same primary doctrines remained in the reign of The-
odosius which were inculcated by the founders, though the
ceremonial had become polluted with every species of abo- ·
ruination and uncleanness. If Masonry, or its idolatrous
substitute, be considered under the worst and most forbid-
ding forms, it invariably preserved the moral dogmas and
institutes of each national religion. It is true that false
religion produced false Masom·y ; and the latter, faithful
to the principles by which it was supported, proceeded no
farther than an idolatrous won~hip would sanction. In a
* Strab. Georgr. I. i.
Digitized by Coogle
PREFACE. xiii
worJ, the Mysteries were the only vehicles of religion
throughout the whole idolatrous world ; and it is probable
th~t the very name of religion might have been obliterated
from amongst them, but for the support it received by the
periodical celebrations, which preserved all the forms and
ceremonies, rites and practices of divine worship; and the
varieties of custom in this pa~ticular, constituted the sole
difference betwixt the Masonry (shall I so call it?) ofdifferent
nations. Wheresoever the Mysteries were introduced, they
retained their primitive form, adapted to the customs and
usages of the national religion; and if varied in some unim-
portant points, it was to commemorate certain extraordinary
performances of the tutelary deities, or to perpetuate some
remarkable circumstance attending their first institution in
a particular country. Hence the same, or similar ceremo-
nies, which were applied to Osiris and Isis in Egypt, the
greatsourceof secret and mysterious rites,,. were celebrated
in Greece, in honour of Bacchus and Rhea; at FJeusis, they
were applied to Ceres and Proserpine; in Tyre and Cyprus,
to Adonis and Venus; in Persia, to Mithras and Mithra;
in India, to Maha Deva and Sita; in Britain, to Hu and
Ceridwen; in Scandinavia, to Odin and Frea; and in Mex-
ico, to Tlaloc and the Great Mother ; for these appear to
be but different names for the same deities, and most.proba-
bly referred to Noah and the Ark. They were all originally
the same System, founded on primitive Masonry; but being
deteriorated by false worship, bore a very imperfect resem-
blance to the divine pattern. They all however preserved
a disguised tradition of the creation and fall of man, and the
universal deluge; they used as most significant emblems, the
* Lucian de Dea Syr.
o,g,tized by Coogle
xiv PRBPACS.
Theological Ladder; the triple support of the universal
Lodge, called by masons, Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty ;
the Point within a Circle, and many other legitimate em-
blems of Masonry; they used the same form of Government;
the same system ofsecrecy, allegory, and symbolical Instruc-
tion ; all tending to the same point, the practice of moral
virtue. None were admitted without previous probation
and initiation; the candidates were bound by solemn oaths;
united by invisible ties; taught by Symbols ; distinguished
by Signs and Tokens; and, impelled by a conscientious
adherence to the rules of the order, they professed to prac-
tise the most rigid morality; justice towards men, and piety
to the gods.
In treating on all the points connected with these Sym-
bols, I trust it will be acknowledged that in this Course of
Lectures I have not removed the veil which conceals a
single forbidden secret; that I have not exposed to the public
gaze a single wor~ letter, or character, which may tend
to excite sensations of alarm ~ the ·bosom of the most rigid
and tenacious Mason; but that I have endeavoured modestly
to illustrate such points and symbols as may show the beauty
of the System, and convince mankind at large that Masonry
is really what it professes to be, an Order of Peace, Har-
mony, and Brotherly Love.
I have been scrupulously careful about the admission of a ,
single sentencefrom thepeculiar Lectures of Masonry which
has not already apJieared in a printed form in one or other
of our legitimate publications. It is true, the following
pages contain much genuine Masonry; but it is not marked
by the use of a distinguishing type, and is distributed with
so much precaution as to render fruitless the attempt of an
uninitiated person to determine where it is concealed; while
Digitized by Coogle
PREFACE. XV
to the assiduaus Mason's view it lies open and exposed. To
him it is like a burning and a shining Light, elevated on a
lofty candlestick, and darting its pure ·and perfect rays to
enlighten and invigorate the Soul.
I conclude this Preface in the words of Brother Wellins
Calcot, who published some disquisitions on Freemasonry in
1769. " However anxious and restless the busy and invi-
dious may be, and whatever attempts they may· make to
traduce our Institution or discover our mysteries, all their
endeavours will prove ineffectual. They will still find that
the only means to attain to the knowledge of our mysteries
are abilities, integrity, firmness, and a due and constant
perseverance in the great duties of moral and social life, in
principles of religion and virtue, and whatever is commend-
able and praiseworthy. These are the steps, and this the
clue, that will lead and direct the practisers of such excel-
lencies to the heights of Freemasonry, and while they adhere
to them, will effectually secure them favour and esteem from
every able and faithful Brother, andthe warmest approbation
and satisfaction from their own hearts."
Digitized by Coogle
_· I
Digitized by Coogle
SIGNS AND SYMBOLS.
LECTURE I.
ON THE HIEROGLYPHICAL SYSTEM OF THE ANCIENTS.
" Wben first the golden morn aloft,
With maiden breezes whispering soft, .
Sprung from the East with rosy wing,
To kiss the heavenly first born spring;
JEHOVAH then from hallowed earth
Gave Masonry immortal birth." Masonic Ode.
"Study eagerly the meaning of the hieroglyphics and emblems which the
Order lays before thee. Even nature ·does not always unveil her secrets;
she must be observed, compared, and frequently watched with attention in
.I her operations." Masonic Exhortation~~, from the German.
IT has long been my opinion that the most beneficial
results would ensue to the Science of Freemasonry,
were the Masters of Lodges to devote some portion
of their time to the delivery of explanatory Lectures
on subjects of general interest connected with the
Institution. Such a practice might be the means of
elucidating many points, on which our customary
Lectures leave us entirely in the dark. Some years
ago, a law, emanating from theM. W. G. M. passed
the Grand Lodge,• empowering every Master to
* December 1st, 1619.
B
Digitized by Coogle
2 LOO'J'URB J.
deliver his Lectures, " in a language suited to the
character of the Lodge over which he presides," with.~ ·.
this only proviso. that the established Landma.rks 00..···
.·
not removed. ··, ~
This liberal regulation leaves the local discussions of·{
our Lodges open to considerable improvement ; and :,.
relieves us from the shackles of a constituted forni, } . ·
whose unvarying features, beautiful as they are, ~r .~ ·.
a few years' habitual repetition, become, to a certain ·'·
extent, uninteresting; for every human composition, .\.
how superior soever it may be, palls on the mind when· .·¢· .
the charm of novelty has faded away; and, at a still. t '".'·:
more distant period, its salutary impression ceases alto- ·~ :.··
gether. But a provision, like that I have just referred l.
to, constituoos a Masonic Lodge into a Literary Society, ..:
where every member is at liberty to ·add to the general .\ .
stock of knowledge, by promulgating the results of his
own enquiries, and disseminating among the Brethren,
the fruits of his researches in our ancient and scientific ..
Institution.
Masonry contains many points to which such en-
quiries may be usefully directed; I shallsuggest a few,
in the course of these Lectures, and state how far ~y
own observations have extended.
One important question, which appears to have been
almost wholly neglected by ·Masonic writers, is:-
whether Freemasonry be a servile imitation of certain
ceremonies in the ancient idolatrous Mysteries, as .is .
asserted by some writers; or whether it be the great·
Digitized by Coogle
LEC11JRE I. 3
original from which the Mysteries themselves were
derived. On this .enquiry · I have bestowed much
deliberate consideration; for I found it impossible to be
satisfied with practising a science derived from the pol-
luted dregs of idolatry. To iDvestigate this important
point fully and impartially, I have consulted most of the
principal mythological writers,both ancientandmodern,
whose works are accessible and possess either ·interest
or authority. I have examined, with the greatest atten-
tion, the mysterious establishments ofall nations in the
world; and have bestowed infinite pains in collecting,
from the institutions of antiquity, the peculiar ceremo-
nies of initiation; as well as the date of their origin,
their doctrines, usages and customs, in the hope of
elucidating this most abstruse point, and detecting the ·
fallacy of those pretensions to originality, which were
exhibited in the practice of idolatrous rites, in various
heathen nations. The result of this investigation has
introduced into my mind a firm persuasion that Free-
masonry is not, as so~e authors seem to think,• a scion
snatched with a violent hand from the ancientmysteries;
but, in reality, the original institution from which aU
the mysteries were derived; because, from their agree-·
ment in certain essential points which could only be
obtained from a system of puritY and truth, we derive
* Fab. Pag. Idol. b. v. c. 6.-Clinch. in Anthol. Hibern. 1794.<.- London
Magazine, Jan.lS~.-Robison's Proofs of a Conspiracy, p. 20.
B~
Digitized by Coogle
4 LECTURE I.
ample testimony to establish the fact, that the mys-
teries of all nations were originally the same, and
diversified only by the accidental circumstances of
local situation and political economy. I admit, without
}lesitation, that Masonry and the Mysteries bear many
characteristics in common, which point out a common
origination ; but by tracing the latter to their source,
separating the component parts with a careful hand,
and minutely analyzing every occult rite and inystic
ceremony, it will clearly appear that they owe their
origin to the pure science which we now practice
under the designation of Freemasonry. The true
system·of divine worship had its accompanying institu-
tion of mystery, which was coeval with religion, and
essential to its support. This arrangement was copied
by the idolaters; whose newly established plans of
worship were always accompanied by corresponding
systems of mystery, formed on the same basis, and
embracing the same principles as the pure system
which was attached to the primitive religion. As,
therefore, the tru£; preceded the false religion, so
the Institution now called Masonry was anterior to
the establishment of the mysteries.
It is true many impediments exist to prevent a clear
and satisfactory elucidation of the institutions of
antiquity. The greater portion of the ancient authors,
who mention them, appear to have been under the
high restraint of that awful secresy which the initiated
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE J. 5
were bound to observe;• and consequently many of the
secrets and usages remain undiscovered. Enough;
however, may be collected to convince us of their
common origination ; and certain ceremonies and
symbols, which bear a striking resemblance to the rites
of Freemasonry, may be traced in these institutions,
amidst the heterogeneous mass of profaneness and
impiety, which rendered the celebration at once dis-
graceful and obscene.
' The rites of that Science which is now received
under the appellation of Freemasonry, were exercised
in the antediluvian world; revived by Noah after the
flood ; practised by mankind at the building of Babel,
conveniences for which were undoubtedly contrived
in the interior of that celebrated edifice ; .and at
the dispersion spread with every settlement, already
deteriorated by the gradual innovations of the Cabiric
:Priests,t and modelled into a form, the great outlines
---------- - - -
* Diod. Sic. p. 32.-Horap. I. 2. Andoc. de Myst. p. 7. Meurs. Eleus. c.
JilQ. "The betrayers of the Mysteries, (says Warburton,) were punished
capitally and with merciless severity. Diagoras the Melian had revealed
·the Orphic and Eleusinian Mysteries; on which account he passed with
~he people for an Atheist. He likewise dissuaded his friends from being
initiated into these Rites; the consequence of which was, that the city of
Athens proscribed him, and set ll price upon his head. Ancl the poet
Eschylus had like to have been tom in pieces by the people on the mere
suspicion, that, in one of his Scenes, he had given a hint of something in
the Mysteries." Div. Leg. b. ii. s. 4.
t "The Mysteries of the Cabiric Rites," says Sammes, in his Britannia, p.
55, "were accounted so sacred and powerful, that whosoever was initiated
in them, immediately received, as they thought, some extraordinary gifts of
holiness, and that in all their dangers they had a present remedy and
Digitized by Coogle
6 LECTURE I.
of which are distinctly to be traced in the mysterie.
of every heathen nation, exhibiting the shattered
remains of one true System whence they were all
derived.
The rites of idolatry were indeed strikingly similar,
and generally deduced from parallel practices, pre·
viously used by the true Masons ; for idolatry was an
imitative system, and all its ceremonies and doctrines
were founded on the general principles of the pa,.
triarchal religion. If the patriarch united in his own
person the three offices of king, priest, and prophet;
the secret assemblies of idolatry were also governed
by a Triad, consisting of three supreme officers : if
primitive Masonry was a system of Light, the initiated
heathen equally paid divine honours to the Sun, as
the source of light, by circumambulating in the cowrae
of that luminary, during the ceremony of initiation.
The uniformity of practice which attended the progress
oferror in different nations is truly astonishing. They
equally used the Ambrosire Petrre, as vehicles of
regeneration ; they shrouded their rites under the
impenetrable mask of secresy; they possessed the same
mode of conveying instruction by symbols, allegory,
and fable; the same repugnance to committing their
expedient about them to deliver and rescue them ; but that which moat
affected the Phenicians was a confidence they had, that those religious
ceremoniea preserved them from dangers by sea. Therefore it is no wonder
that, arriving in Britain, they taught the inhabitants that worship, to which
they held themselves most obliged for their safety."
o;9;ti"zed by Coogle
U:CTIJRE 1.· 7
abstruse secrets to writing; the same system of
·morality ; the same attaclunent to amulets, talismans,
and perhaps magic; and equally inculcated the im-
mortality of the soul, and a future state of rewards
and punishments, which were alike pantomimically
exhibited during the initiations.•
The departure from Freemasonry was indeed, at
its original" corruption but slightly marked. The ob.
ject was changed by the substitution of surreptitious
deities, but the ceremonial remained nearly the same.
It waa only by successive, and in some instances,
very remote innovations, that the system at length
assumed a di1ferent character ; and even at its last
and most corrupted change, many striking points of
resemblance may be traced, which unequivocally denote
a. common origination. Hence, however the mysteries
of different nations might vary in ceremonial ob-
servances, they contain certain arbitrary landmarks,
which are unquestionable evidences that they were
derived from some true and ·primitive system; for
they were nothing but Masonry or Lux, gradually per-
verted to the corrupt purposes of a false and spurious
.worship.
* BorL Comw. p. 11•. Fab. Cab. c. 10.-Warb. Div. Leg. b. ii. s. 4.-
Apul. Metam. 2.-Dav. Celt. Res. p. 2ti9.-Cesar. cle bel. Gal. I. 6. 13.-
Porph. de Abstin. I. 4. s. ~-Kempf. Japan. b. iii. c. 4.-&contala, Sir
W. Jones's works, vol. vi.-Dav. Druids, p. 277.-Warb. Div. Leg. b. iv.
s. 4.-Brand's Pop. Ant. voL ii. p. 376.-0rig. con. Cels. L 8.
Digitized by Coogle
8 LECTURE J.
·The system of hieroglyphics or symbols,• which is
proposed for illustration in these Lectures, was adopted
into every mysterious institution, for the purpose of
concealing the most sublime secrets of religion from
the prying curiosity of the vulgar ; to whom nothing
was exposed but the beauties of their morality.t ·
" The old Asiatic style so highly figurative, see~
by what we find of its remains in the prophetic
language of the sacred writers, to have been evidently
fashioned to the mode of the ancient hieroglyphics;
for as in hieroglyphic writing, the sun, moon, and
stars were used to represent states and empires, kings,
queens, and nobility: their eclipse and extinction,
temporary disasters, or entire overthrow; fire and
flood, desolation by war and famine; plants or animals,
the qualities of particular persons, &c. So, in like
manner, the holy prophets call kings and empires, by
* Hieroglyphics are emblems or signs of divine, BBered, or supernatural
things, by which they are distinguished from common symbols, which are
signs of sensible or natural things. Hermes Trismegistus is commonly
esteemed the inventor of hieroglyphics; he first introduced them into the
Heathen theology, fr9JD whence they have been transplanted into the Jewiah
and Christian. Sacred things,saysHippoerates should only be communicated
to BSered persons. The Egyptisns communicated to none but their kings
and priests, and those who were to succeed to the priesthood and the crown,
the secrets of nature and the mysteries of their morality and history; and
this they did by a kind ofCabala, which, at the same time that it instructed
them, only amused the rest of the people. Hence the use of hieroglyphiea
or mystic figures to veil their morality, politics, &c. from profane eyes.-
Spon.
t Ramsay's Travels of Cyrus, b. iii.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE r. , 9
the names of the heavenly luminaries; their misfor-
tunes and overthrow are represented by eclipses and
extinction ; stars falling from the firmament are em-
ployed to denote the destruction of the nobility ;
thunder and tempestuous winds, hostile invasions ;-
lions, bears, leopards, goats,· or high trees, leaders
of armies, conquerors, and founders of empires: royal
dignity is described by purple or a crown ; iniquity
by spotted garments ; error and misery by an in-
toxicating draught ; a warrior by a sword or bow ;
a powerful man by a gigantic stature ; and a judge
by balance, weights, and measures. In a word, the
prophetic style seems to be a speaking hierogly-
phic."•
The whole mystical system of Pythagoras was ex-
pressed by signs and symbols, which the initiated
understood, while the rest of the world, though in
the midst of light, remained for ever enveloped in
the impenetrable shades of darkness.t His secrets
were forbidden to be committed to writing, and were
delivered orally from one to another as ineffable mys-
teries. The Pythagoreans, so famous for their silence,
cor ersed with each other chiefly by signs ; a practice
which was adopted, not only as an universal language,
but to conceal from the vulgar their peculiar doctrines
and modes ofthinking. Symbolical instruction, which
was found so useful in impressing on the mind the most
* Warb. Div. Leg. b. iv. s. (.. t Jamb!. c. 34.
Digitized by Coogle
JO LBCTUBE I.
dilated and comprehensive truths, that it had been
adopted from Masonry into all the mys~ries, wae in
high esteem with Pythagoras ;• for he aaid, in treating
of all things divine and human, the vastness of such
a complicated subject demanded short symbols to help
and assist the memory.+ This system was attended
with other very important advantages. The method of
communicating ideas by signs and symbols, had in all
ages given its possessors a decided advantage over the
rest of the world; for, "as generals use watchwords to
distinguish their soldiers from others, so it is very
advantageous to communicate to friends and brothers,
some peculiar signs and symbols as distinctive marks
of a society. These amongst the Pythagoreans were
a chain of indissoluble love."t
The Druids also possessed a profound system of
hieroglyphics, the principles of which were com-
municated with great reluctance, even to the Epoptm
*"The moat ancient," says Stanley, (Hiat. Phil. YoL s. part 1. p.lli.)
"and such as were cotemporary with, and disciples to Pythagoras, did not
compose their writings intelligible, in a common vulgar style, familiar to
every one, as if they endeavoured to dictate things readily perceptible by the
bearer, but consonant to the silence decreed by Pythagol"llll, concerning
divine mysteries, which it is not lawful to speak of before those who were
not initiated ; and therefore clouded both their mutual disco11r1es and
writings by symbols; which,if not expounded by those thatpropo&ed them,
by a regular interpretation appear to the hearers like old wives' proverbs,
trivial and foolish; but being rightly explained, and instead ofdark rendered
lucid and conspicuous to the vulgar, they discover an admirable sense, no
lesa than the divine oracles of Pytbi:m Apollo; and give a divine inspiration
to the Philologists that understand ~em."
t Laert. vit. Pyth. ::\ Stanley's Life of Pyth. b. iv. c. I.
\
( o,g,tized by Coogle
·' ·
LECTURE I. ll
themselves. The characters of this species·oi symbol
were borrowed from the appearance of natural objects,
and chiefly from the vegetable creation. " Thus, of a
man who possessed an expanded mind, it would be said,
he i.s an Oak; of another, who was liable to be in-
timidated, was irresolute and wavering, he is an Aspen
leaf; or of a third who was hollow and deceitful, he is
a Reed."• .The knowledge of these symbols was pro-
perly denominated mystery ; and the initiated were
strictly forbad to commit any portion of it to writing.t
This method of concentrating the secrets of their
order, and fixing them permanently in the recol-
lection by means of visible images, was adopted to
prevent the uninitiatedt from acquiring improperly
any insight into their occult rites and disquisitions.
Whatever was valuable in the system of Druidism, was
embodied in some visible and picturesque object,
which thus became a depository of important truths.
Hence, almost every object they saw could read them
a Lecture on morality; and hence inanimate matter
was said to speak with the lips of knowledge ; and
contemplation was assisted and enforced in every
r-- .
* Davies Celt. Res. p. ~7. t Vesar de bel. Gal. I. 6. 18.
::: The ignorant Britons were easily impressed with superstitious re-
verence for these profound secrets; for at the period of the Roman invasion
under Cesar, they were still extremely rude in their diet and mode of life.
{Strabo. I. 4o. Diod. Sic. I. 4o.) some went entirely naked, (Xiphil.l. 21.)
others were clothed in the skins of beasts, (Cesar.J.s..c. 14.) and the state
in which they were found induced the Romans to style them barbarians.
Herodian. 1. 3. Pomp. Mela. I. 3. c. 6.
Digitized by Coogle
12 LECJ'URE I.
situation, by the actual presence of those silent, yet
eloquent teachers of wisdom.
Geometrical. figures, as lines, angles, squares, and
perpendiculars, were ranked amongst the symbols of
Druidism. " As the Druids had no enclosed temples,
thinking them inconsistent with the majesty of the
gods, so neither had they any carved images to repre-
sent them, and for the same reason ; but instead
thereof, rude stones were erected in their places of
worship at some mystic, significant distance, and in
some emblematic number, situation, and plan; some-
times in right lines, sometimes in squares, sometimes
in triangles, sometimes in both ; now single and fifty
paces distant or more from the circles; or eminently
· taller than the rest in the circular line, and making a
part of it like portals, not only to shape the entrance,
but also to hallow those that entered : it appearing by
many monuments, that the Druids attributed great
virtue to these passages between rocks."•
This custom was practised in its greatest perfection,
and consequently with the most triumphant success in
Egypt, the land of allegory as well as superstition.
Those astonishing specimens of human art and in-
genuity, which still remain in that country to excite
our wonder and admiration; (not to mention the
sphinges, the obelisks, the catacombs, and other
minor, though stupendous masses of architecture) the
* BorL Corn. b. ii. c. 17.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE I. 13
gigantic pyramids, one of which, say the Copts, was
erected by Ham, and another by Shem, are generally
regarded either as having been intended for tombs,
or repositories for hidden treasure in times of pub~c
agitation. Some, indeed, have conjectured that they
were buildings appropriated to the occult purpose of
practising magical arts, and the construction of talis-
mans and charms. The truth however is, that they
were places principally used for the celebration of the
mysteries, which were of great importance in Egypt,
and derived additional celebrity from the splendour,
solidity, or costliness of the place which was devoted to
their solemnization. Now the quadrangular Pyramid
contained many mysterious and symbolical references.
It was supposed to allegorize the soul, or the principle
of immortality. And this opinion was not peculiar to
Egypt, but was admitted by the Indians, the Chinese,
and in the extremest regions of the West ; for the
high Altar ofVitzliputzli, in Mexico, was Pyramidal ;
as was also the celebrated Temple at Nankin. Sphinges
were erected in the front of temples and places of
initiation, as we are informed by Clement, of Alex-
andria,• to denote that all sacred truth is enfolded in
enigmatical fables and allegories.t
* Lib.S. c."-
t In India a secret language ')V&s used in the mysteries, which was
called Devanagari, a word compounded of Deva, divine, and Nagari, a
city, and this language was boldly asserted to have been revealed to them
by the Deity himself.-Maur. Ind. Ant. vol. 3. p. 896.
o1git1zed by Coogle
14 LECTURE r;
In their initiations, the Egyptians informed the
candidate, as an ineffable secret, that the mysteries
were received from father Adam, Seth, and Enoch;
and in the chief degree the perfectly initiated as-
pirant was termed, from the name of the Deity, AL-
OM-JAH; pronounced Allhawmiyah. After the
initiation was fully completed, figs and honey were
presented to the candidate, accompanied by this maxim1
TRUTH is sweet.
The characteristic property of these mysteries was
SEcRESY: Hence /sprang the innumerable Emblems
and hieroglyphical Symbols with which they abounded;
-hence the great personification of Silence or Taci-
turnity so frequently recurring on all their sculptured
monuments; and hence their incessant reference to
Darkness, which was ali emblem expressive of the
profound secresy under which the initiated were bound ·
by solemn obligations, enforced by denunciations of
rigorous penalties. The Symbol of this darkness,
resembled a Mason's Trowel.• -
The reason assigned for this jealousy has been
revealed to us by Apuleius. He says, that in a
subsequent part of his own initiation, the hierophant
produced certain mysterious writings, or Tracing
Boards which contained Symbols explanatory of the
whole System, expressed by figures of animals, and
. secret marks, interwoven with apparent intricacy; now
* Ahmed ben Washih.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTtJltE I~ 15
revolviug like a wheel ; now turned inwards and
crowded together, that the hidden meaning might be
effectualJy concealedfrom the pT!Jing cwriosity ofthe
unittitiated.• The symbolical instruction of Egypt waa
of unlimited extent: every·thing in nature; every thing
mysterious ; every branch of science ; each technical
phraae, .and each component part ofthe mysteries, were
expressed by a significant and appropriate Symbol.
Hence arose the complicated inscriptions on tombs,
obelisks, and temples; which are generally mere
historical records, pointing out the name of the builder,
with the addition of such moral precepts as the genius
of the founder might suggest, and bearing a reference
to the circumstances which occasioned the construction
of the Edifice.
" If they wished to express a powerful, brave,
cunning, and avaricious King, they painted the figure
ofa man with the head of a lion, pointing with one of
his fingers tO a fox before him. If they wished to
express.the attributes of understanding, sagacity, and
wisdom, they represented a man with the head of an
elephant, pointing with one of his fingers to a sitting
ape. If they wished to give him the attributes of
justice, generosity, and liberality, they drew a man
with a bird's head, and before him a balance, a sun,
and a moon. If they meant to represent him cruel,
faithless, and ignorant, they gave him a dog's, ass's, or
* Metam. L2.
Digitized by Coogle
16 LECTURE I.
boar's head, with a pot of fire and a swo.rd before
him.
'' A man of perfect wisdom and understanding,
accomplished in all his ways, and without the least
blame, was painted with a beautiful face, with wings
like an angel, holding in his hands a book, in which he
looked, a sword and a balance, and behind him two
vases,. one of them full of water and the other of
blazing fire, under his right foot a ball with a crab
painted on it, and ·under his left a deep pot full of
serpents, scorpions, and different reptiles, the covering
of which had the shape of an eagle's head."•
Thus every thing was enveloped in mystery, the key
of which was initiation. The hidden meaning of the
Egyptian hieroglyphics is now pretty well known, and
appears to be as follows: The world, governed by the
providence of God, was symbolized by a circle, with a
hawkheaded serpent in its centre~ The sun, by a man
or child enthroned upon the lotos or water lily.
Honour and victory, by a palm-tree; power and
authority, by a rod or staff; secresy, by a grasshopper;
knowledge, by an ant; fecundity, by a goat; aversion,
by a wolf; instability, by a hyena; malice, by a
crocodile; destruction by a mouse; and deformity by
a bear. Plenty was represented by the right hand
with the fingers open; and protection, by the left hand
closed. Ignorance was depicted by a light spot in
* Aben Washih's HierogL
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE I. 17
the midst of a darkened surface. H the omnipresence
of God was dilated on, the idea was comprehended
under the form of an infinitely extended circle, whose
centre is every where, but whose circumference is no
where. His omnipotence was designated by a human
foot; and his b9undless mercy by a cherub. Did the
initiated refer to the four elements? They were pour-
trayed by certain prismatic colours. W!tite repre-
sented the air; Blue the water; Purple the earth ;
and Crimson the fire. Again, the visible characters
used to represent the elements were these ; ® Air.
1\/W\J\Water. I Earth. ~Fire. ~
The Four Elements.
Did they contemplate the creation of the world? It
was fixed in their minds under the idea of the supreme
Serpent god Cneph, ejecting from his mouth an egg.
Did they embody in their imagination the hero god
Osiris? He was ever present under the form of a
bull, which was considered an incarnation of the god,
and a symbol of the sun. If his mystical death and
subsequent reviviscency were the subject of their devout
-thoughts, these fundamental points were figured under
a butterfly, and the physioal changes which distinguish
that remarkable insect. If they contemplated the
same mythological personage in the character of the
sovereign of the universe, he was designated by a
sceptre and an eye; if under the form of the sun, he
was symbolized by a frog; or, of the Great Father
c
Digitized by Coogle
18
rising regenerated from the waters of the deluge, th~
symbol was the same reptile emerging from the lotos.
The Zodiac was considered as the Great Assembly of
the twelve gods, the Sun being supreme, and the
Planets his attendants. The human soul was depicted
by a hawk, and the universe by a beetle. Life by this
figure ~ It was also represented by that celebrated
symbol, the Crux Ansata 9.• ~ represented
Death; ~ Sin; ~ Angel; and :::tDevil~
If immortality were the subject of their contemplation,
it was engrafted on their minds by the idea of a. Se~t­
pent annually casting and renewing his skin. And if
their hearts were exalted to the eternal God, seated on
his throne in heaven, he was figured as an august
Being 9f a purple colour, shadowed ~th beams of
glory.t
Such is an outline of the hieroglyphical system of
Egypt, which formed the actuating principle of their
scheme of politics as well as religion; but it was stained
with licentiousness and obscenity, which ultimately
brought upon it the execration of the wise and good.
* This sign, says Sir Archibald Edmonstone, (.Tourney to the Two Oases
of Upper Egypt, p. 109.) "originally signifying Life, would appear to be
adopted as ,a c~ristian emblem, either from its similiarity to the shape of the
cross, or from its being considered the symbol of a stateof future existence."
tHor. Apol. HierogL-Apul. Metam.-Ahmed ben Washih.-Plut.-
Jambl. de Myst.-Plut. de Isid. et Osir.-Porph. vit. Pyth.-Diod. Sic. Bib!.
-Philo. Byblius arud Euseb. de prep. evan.-Clem. Alex. &c.
Digitized by Coogle
LE<n:lJRE I. JD
Jmuat not omit to mention, however, that this people
eontrived to embody the whole of their symbols in one -
mystical diagram, which was esteemed a constellation
of the secrets perpetuated in the mysteries. I subjoin
the emblem, but leave the explana~on of it to yol,ll'
own ingenuity and research. -- .
The system of symbolical instruction, in all oth~r
mysteries was commensurate with this. The emblems
which Masons now make use of as the secret repo-
sitories of their treasures of morality, were adopted by
the ancients in very early times, as signs and symbols;
and were even substituted for alphabetical characters.•
Thus, in the ancient alphabet of the Virgin, the
Square was used to express the letter S; in the alpha-
* Diod. Sic. L3. r.I.
c2
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE f.
bet of Socrates, it stood for Z or th ; and as an hiero-
glyphic it denoted equally a Building and a Learned
Man, according to the different situations in which it
was placed. A circle supported by two perpendicula't'
parallel line&, denoted Will and pleasure; and in the
Lunar alphabet, the same character represented the'
letter Y .l In the alphabet of Tauras, a point within a
circle stood for R ; in the Lunar alphabet for H ; in
the Solar alphabet for B; in Aristotles alphabet for W
and U; in that of Hermes for A; and in the Egyptian
hieroglyphics, it represented a Star. ,
The Triangle, now called a Trowel, was an emblem
of very extensive application, and was much revered
be ancient nations as containing the greatest and most
abstruse mysteries. It signified equally the Deity,
Creation, and Fire; in the alphabet of the Moon,' it
represented the letter S; and in the hieroglyphics of
Egypt, we sometimes see the suppliant presenting a
triangle to his god. The Mallet was a symbol of Thor,
the northern god of thunder. In the alphabet of
Belinos, it was used to express the letter M ; in that
of Plato, L; in that of Hermes, B; in the Indian
alphabet A; in the alphabet of Hermes Abootat, the
Mallet united with a Pickaxe, denoted R ; in that of
Jupiter, N; and in the Berrabian alphabet, Z. In
the alphabet of Pythagoras, the Compasses stood for
S; in that ofDiosmos the Egyptian, for F; and in the
oldest Chaldean alphabet, the Square and Compasses
united as they are in our Third Degree of Masonry,
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE r. 21
was a character used to represent the letter H. In the
alphabet ofSaturn, the Plumb stood for S; and a Skull
for T; in that of India, a Ghissel stood for A ; in that
of Hermes, a double cross supporting a circle Eo3
for S H R; and two parallel lines for Y; and in the
Solar alphabet, a Sun represented the first letter A.•
We have here a fund of }>leasant research offered for
our investigation, which c3.nnot fail to repay the active
Mason for any extent of labour he may be induced to
bestow upon it. And I must recommend you to apply
yourselves assiduously to this curious and amusing -
study. In the prosecution of such an useful and in-
structive pursuit, do not sutfer yourselfto be abstracted
by the idiot laugh of ridicule, or the cynical sneer of
contempt; but proceed in an undeviating course to the
investigation of truth, assured that the beautiful results
will amply reward your labours. If you practise Ma-
sonry for ·the sake of its convivialities alone, it will
soon pall on your mind ; for these are introduced into
the System, only to cheer and relieve nature after its
painful and unwearied researches into the hidden stores
of Masonic knowledge ;' but if your mind embrace the
great principles of Masonry as the chief source of
gratification, and use its lighter shades of enjoyment as
merely temporary relaxations when the hour of graver
labour has expired ; you will then enjoy every benefit
* Vid. Hammer's Translation of Ancient Alphabets from Ahmad Bin
Abubeki Bin Waahih.
Digitized by Coogle
22 LEcTuRE I.
the science can impart; your expanding genius will
soon be imbued with all the vigour of a healthy inteJ..
lect, matured and ripened by a rich increase ofscientific:.
and religious knowledge ; and your mind rapidly ad-
vancing to perfection, will ultimately be prepared for
the full irradiations ofcomplete and never fading glory
when time shall be no more.
Digitized by Coogle
r .
·23
LECTURE II.
ON THE ALL-SEEING EYE.
tc That sacred place where Three in One,
Comprised thy comprehensive NAME;
And where the bright meridian Sun,
Was soon thy glory to proclaim.
Thy watchful En, a length of time,
The wondrous circle did attend;
The Glory and the Power be thine,
Which shall from age to age descend."
· " May the sublime idea that thou walkest before the Eyu of the Om-
nipruent, strengthen and support thee."
MtUOtdc &Aortatiom,from tie German.
WHEN we look round on the wonderful works of
God, as displayed in the formation of this globe which
we inhabit ; when we extend our view to the immense
arch of heaven, and behold the amazing orbs of light,
'burning with perpetual refulgence, and illuminating
every part of the vast and boundless expanse ; when
we contemplate the wonderful productions of Nature;
from the stupendous ocean to its minutest inhabitants,
from the majestic lion that prowls in the desert, to
the most insignificant reptile that hides its diminutive
form beneath the surface of the earth ;-we can
scarcely resist the impression which such an em~
ployment 'will naturally produce in the mind, that,
the origin of these mighty phenomena, which exhibit
Digitized by Coogle
24 LECTURE II.
such a wonderful mechanism in their structure, and
such a regularity in their motions, must have been
the work of an invisible and all powerful Architect..
Do we enquire how came the human frame by all
those mysterious properties which sustain and pre-
l!erve its uniformity of action from one generation t()
another ;-how came man by the reasoning faculty
which elevates him so much above the level of the
animal creation ? This could not be merely fortuitous,
for accident seldom produces two inanimate forms
that bear any degree of resemblance to each other ;
and the human body, so complicated, so uniform, so
perfect in all its parts and faculties, cou~d, least of
all, be the effect of chance, and therefore must be the
work of some superior Being; and he who could form
the wonderful machine, and furnish it with reason,
must be divine.
The existence·and truth of this omnipresent Being;
are the first steps of Masonry, and ought to be the
principal objects of our contemplation. As Masons
we are directed to rem~mber that wherever we are,
or whatever we are about to·do, his All Seeing Eye
observes us ; and whilst we continue to act in con-
formity with the established usages and customs of
our Order, we are under an obligation to discharge
every moral and social duty, with fervency and zeal.
The emblem now before us, if rightly considered,
is of infinite importance both to our present and
future welfare.. It encourages and enforces an habi-
tual obedience to those moral precepts, which form the
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE II.
beauty and excellence of our system, and iinpresses
the mind with an awful sense of the perpetual inspec-
tion and scrutiny, which every thought, word, and
action, must inevitably sustain from an infinitely good
. and perfect Being. The All-Seeing Eye o~ God is
every where present. He is equally in the Lodge
room and in the closet ; in the broad expanse of
heaven, and in the secret recesses of caverns, vaults
and dungeons. He observes every action ; he hears
every address, whether of sacred prayer, or af impious
blasphemy.
The ground of a Lodge is said to be holy, in
reference to a certain hill in Judea, where the Deity
frequently condescended to communicate with man.
First with Enoch, whence he was translated to heaven
without passing the gates of death; then with Abra-
ham, when he obeyed the divine command, and ac-
tually bound his son Isaac, in whom all the promises
centred, for the purpose of sacrifice, but was arrested
by a voice from on high ; next with King David,
when he offered up that acceptable sacrifice which
was approved by a supernatural fire from heaven ;
and lastly, with King Solomon, at the Dedication of
the Temple. And on this spot the divine Sbekinah
dwelt until the Babylonish Captivity. But, however
our Lodges may be hallowed by a reference to these
striking events, and hence be esteemed blessed with
the continual presence of the divinity ; there is no
place however secret, or however barred from human
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE U.
observation, but God is equally and substantially pre-·
sent. The universe, extended beyond the reach of
human ideas, where worlds are piled on worlds in-
numerable, widely distant from the smallest speck in
that superb vault of studded lights, which human in-
genuity, with all its implements of science can trace,
is the solemn temple of the Lord ; and here and every
where His All-Seeing Eye is always present. Here,
in the open Arch of heave:r., the divine finger may be
seen; that glittering canopy, where every orb of light
chants forth a song of praise. Here the contemplative
l\{ason lifts up his heart to his maker, assured that in
whatever circumstances he may be placed, if he be the
friend of Virtue, he still enjoys the sunshine of God's
almighty protection. Should he, like Joseph the son
of Jacob, be confined to the solitary cell of a dungeon,
His All-Seeing Eye is there; or should he unhappily,
visit the haunts of debauchery and licentiousness, He
is there also. Whether the Mason practice virtue or
vice ; whether he be an ornament to his profession,
or disgrace it by acts of fraud and violence, he cannot
rid himself of that All-Seeing Eye which is upon him
wherever he goes; which follows him into his most
secret retirements, and beholds the hidden thoughts
and practices of the heart. If in the spirit of Masonic
philanthropy, he present his mite in secret to the
worthy distrest, his reward is not lost ; for God has
beheld the transaction, and shall return it openly in
seven fold blessings. And He is equally present
Digitized by Coogle
· LECTURE lt.
where injustice and Wrong are committed~ He hears
the cry of the virtuous oppressed, and will assuredly
·interpose at the . most convenient season. These
considerations have something so awful in their nature
and tendency, that they can scarcely fail to produce a
salutary impression. You must feel confounded when
you are about to commit an evil action, if for a
moment you call to mind your Masonic lessons, and
reflect that the All-Seeing Eye is upon you ; thal
invisible Eye whose power could prevent the greatest
enormities ; and not only strike you with instant death,
but destroy both soul and body for ever.
The ancient idolators in all their various systems of
worship, had some faint ideas of an Eternal and Om-
nipresent God, which must necessarily have been
derived from the true religion; and was undoubtedly
preserved in the mysteries, along with the doctrine of
a future state. Pausanius informs us that they wor-
shiped a God who is eternal. His words are remark-
able. ZEVt ~"' z•.;, fitln, Zt~!l ltrtrETa,. Orpheus said, God
is ONE, he is of himself alone, all things are born
of him, and he is the governor of the world.• Pytha-
goras also, to the same effect, says, there is but one
God, who created all things.t Plato adds, God is the
·parent ofall things.t Euripides,§ Sophocles,II Lucan,,
and other Greek and Latin poets and philosophers say
* Cyr. cont. Jul. p. 26.
§ Suppl. Act. 3. v. 73-f..
t Ibid. p. 85. tIn Tim. p. IO·t-7.
ll <Edip. Tyran. 4tr I. 9:·v. 566.
Digitized by Coogle
28 LECTURE If.
the same thing. The great Cudworth has efFectually
shown that the Egyptian Mystagogue taught to the
initiated, the unity and omnipresence of the godhead.
The altar at Athens is an indirect testimony to the
same truth; for amongst the numerous deities with
which their pantheon was crowded, they believed in
one superior god, of whose precise nature and proper.
ties they publicly professed their utter ignorance,•
although they admitted his eternity, omnipotence, and
omnipresence.t But we are furnished with unquee.-
tionable evidence, that, notwithstanding their profes.
sions, they did actually know something of the true
and only God. The inspired writings inform us that
the deity was known in idolatrous nations, under his
own proper and significant appellation of JEHOVAH.
Saint Paul says,t that they knew God, though they
glorified him not as God, neither were thankful ; but
worshipped the creature rather than the Creator.
And God himself tells us that they possessed the
TETRAGRAMMATON, Tetractys, or Sacred Name, which
amongst the Jews was JAH; for he says, "from the
rising of the sun, even unto the going down of the
same, my Name shall be (or Is, according to the
translation of Cudworth,) great among the p;entiles.§
* Pausan. Attic.
t The definition given by Pythagoras of the omnipresent God, is curious,
" A mind which commeatethand is diffused through everypart ofthe world,
and through all nature from whom all animals that are produced receive
life.'' (Lactant.)
:Rom, i. 21. §Mal. i. 11.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE n.
And they superstitiously believed that this Name was
of such sovereign efficacy, as to enable the possessor to
cure diseases, work miracles, and foretel future events.
One of the uncanonical books of our scriptures asserts,
that the heathen gave this great and incommunicable
Narne to their idols.• They considered the chief god
as 7Tr~>.v,/,11Vpov, or, he that hath many names. Accord..
ingly he was known by a great variety of appellations,
all signifying the same Being, whose EYE is in every
place, beholding the evil and the good; for the numer..
ous tribe of inferior gods were merely worshiped as
mediators. Thus Hesiod says, " there are thirty thou-
sand deities inhabiting the earth, who are subjects to
Jupiter; and guardians ofmen."t
The Great Narne of the Deity, which is termed by
Josephus, incommunicable, is said to be preserved in
the system of Freemasonry. Calmet observes, " when
we pronounce Jehovah, we follow the crowd; for we
do not know distinctly the manner wherein this pro-
per and incommunicable Nam~ of God should be
pronounced, which is written with Iod, Hi, Van,
Hi, and comes from the verb haiah, he bas been.
The ancients have expressed it differently. Sanchon-
iathon writes Jevo; Diodorus the Sicilian, Macrobius,
St. Clemens Alexandrinus, St. Jerom, and Origen,
pronounce lao ; Epiphanius, Theodoret, and the
Samaritans, Jabe or Jave; we find likewise in ancients,
* Wisd. xiv. 21. t Oper. et Dier. I. 1. v. ~0.
Digitized by Coogle
80 LBCTURB n;
Jahoh, Javo, Jaou, Jaod. Lewis Capellus is for Javol
Drusius for Jave, Mercer for Jehevah; Hottinger for
Jevah. The Moors call their god Juba, whom some
believe to be the same as J~hovah. The Latins, in
all probability, took their Jovis, or Jovis Pater from
Jehovah. It is certain that the four Letters which
we pronounce Jehovah, may likewise be expressed
by Javo, Jaho, Jaon, Jevo, Jave, Jehvah, &c. and
that the ancient Hebrews were not unacquainted with
the pronunciation of it, since they recited it in their
prayers, and in the reading of their sacred books.
But the Jews, after the captivity of Babylon, out of
an excessive and superstitious respect for this Holy
Name, left off the custom of pronouncing it, and
forgot the true pronunciation of it.•
The Tetragrammaton was preserved and transmitted
by the Essenes. It was always· communicated in a
whisper,t and under such a disguised form, that while
its component parts were universally known, the
connected whole was an incommunicable mystery.
They used, in common with the whole Jewish nation,
the ancient and significant symbol by which this Name
was designated, viz. three jods, with the point kametz
placed underneath them, thus, (J) to ,express the
equality of the three Persons of which they believed the
godhead to be composed. This Holy Name they held ·
* Calm. Diet. vol. i. p. 749, with authorities.
t R. Tarphon, apud. Ten. Idol. p. 39S.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE 11: 31
ln the utmost veneration. Camlet says, they believed
the Name of God to include all things. " He who
pronounces it, say they, shakes heaven and earth, and
inspires the very angels with astonishment and terror.
There is a sovereign authority in this name; it governs
the world by its power. The other names and sur:
names of the deity, are ranged about it like officers and
soldiers, about their sovereigns and generals; from thi!i!
KING-NAME they receive their orders and· obey."• . .
Another celebrated Symbol of this august Name,
was the disposal of the three points in a radiated form;
s~ as 'to represent an imperial diadem. \iJ This let.
ter Scbin too, w, was adopted as a mysterious embleiJ?.
to designate the Tetragrammaton; and hence thi~
letter was supposed to comprehend many valuabl~
qualities. It was, therefore, deeply engraven by the
Jews on their phylacteries, both before and behind, to
induce the protection of the omnipresent deity it repr~­
sented. Another Symbol was an equilateral triangle
illuminated with a single Jod. A This initial letter
Jod, "denotes the thought, the idea of God. It is a
Ray of Light, say the enraptured cabbalists, which
darts a lustre too transcendant to be contemplated by
mortal eye ; it is a point at which thought pauses,
and imagination itself grows giddy and confounded.
Man, says M. Basnage, citing the·rabbies, may law-
* Calm. Diet. vol. i. p. 7~1.
Digitized by Coogle
c
LECTURB U;
fully roll his thoughts from one end of heaven to the
other ; but they cannot approach that inaccessible
Light, that primitive existence contained in the letter
Jod."•
The chiefvarieties of this sacred Name amongst the
inhabitants of different nations, were Jah, and Bel or
Baal, and On or Om. The :first of these, as we have
just seen, had many fluctuations. Jupiter, Jove, Evohe,
&c. were but corruptions of Jab or Jehovah.t lao,
was pronounced by the Oracle of Apollo, to be the first
and greatest of the deities.+ " The name of Jupiter
Sabazius, as Selden justly remarks, is clearly derived
from Jehovah Sabaoth, a term perpetually applied to
the Most High in the page of revelation, and that the
celebrated Tetragrammaton, the incommunicable name
mnt wa.S well known to the Greeks, appears abundantly
from the writings of Clemens. Alexandrinus and Dio-
dorus Siculus."§ The Tetragrammaton is said to have
been the pass-word amongst the Egyptians, to the
• Maur. Ind. Ant, vol. iv.
t The numerous speculations which have been submitted to the world
respecting this sacred name are curious. One author says, from Jehovah
came lEs, or Esus, a god of the Celts, and As, a god of the Goths. Another
says, Esus or Hesus was a corruption of the Celtic Dhia a name for the
Supreme Being, and the same with the Hebrew Jab; and from the same
word the Latin Deua was derived. A third asserts that the name Hesus,
a corruption, as above, of Dhia or Jab, comes from the Syrian Hizzus or
Haziz, signifying strong and powerful in war ; from which word the Phe-
niciana had their name of Mars, as out of Jamblicus, Julian the Apostate
shows in his oration of the Sun. This was the triad. HESus-TnAa.uns
-BELEMES, unua tantummodo deus.
~ 1\lacrob. Saturn. I. 18. § Fab. Hor. Mos. p. i, s. 1. c. !i!.
Digitized by Coogle
..
LECTURE II. 33
secret chambers ofinitiation. Amongst the Apalachites
of Florida, the priests of the Sun were called by the
remarkable name of Jaovas;• which was also the name
of the deity. The modem Jews say that this word rMM•
was engraven on the Rod of Moses, and thus he was
enabled to work his miracles; and they add, that Jesus
Christ stole the same word out of the Temple, and
inserted it in his thigh, between the skin and the flesh,
and by its sovereign potency performed all his wonders
in Judea.t
The compounds of the second name Bel, are of
great variety. Bel-us was used by the Chaldeans;
and the deity was known amongst the ancient Celtre,
by the name of Bel or Bel-enus,t which title, by the
modern authors, is identified with Apollo. The pri-
mitive name of Britain, was Vel ynys, the island of
Bel; and the fires lighted up on May-day, were in
honour of this deity, and called Bel's fire.§ The
• Ten. Idol. c. 4.. t Calm. Diet. vol. i. p. 150.
t Many towers in England derive their names from this deity, for Belenua
was no other than the sun, according to Elias Schediua ; who imagines, in
his book De diia Germanorum, that he found in the name Belenua the 365
days of the year, in like manner as the Baailideans formerly found them in
those of Abraxas and Mithras. For this purpose Schediua writes f'YJXE~o,
with an "' that he may perfect that number, thus;
B H A EN 0 S
2, 8, 30, 5, 50, 70, 200 =365.
Montf. Ant. vol. ii. p. 267.
§ These fires were originally lighted on theeves of the first ofMay and the
first of November; perhaps because the latter of those days was turned into
mourning; for tradition, and some chroniclessay, that the British Chiefswen
treacherously slain at Stonehenge on that day.-Owen'aDiet. v. Coelcerth.
D
Digitized by Coogle
34 LEC'MIRE U.
inhabitants made use of a word, known only to them-
selves, to express the unutterable name of the Deity,
of which the letters 0. I. W. were a sacred symbol.
In this they resembled the Jews, who always said
Adonai, when the name of Jehovah occurred.• An-
other variation was Bal or Baal, as Bal-rama, used by
the Indians; Bal-der, by the Goths; Baal and Baal-
zebub; by the Sidonians ; Baal-berith, the god ofthe
Shoohemites; Baal-peor or Baal-reem, of the Moabites;
Baal-tis, of the Phamicians ; and Baal-zephon, of the
Egyptians. Baal waa the most ancient god of the
Canaanites and was referred to the Sun. ·Manasseh
raised altars to this deity, and worshipped him in all
the pomp of heathen superstition; and when these
altars were destroyed by Josiah, the worship of Baal
ia identified with that of the Sun.t
The third variation was On. Under this appellation
tha deity, was worshipped by the Egyptians ; and they
professed to believe that he waa eternal, and the foun-
tain of light a.nd life ; but, according to their gross
conceptions, being necessarily visible, the· Sun was
adored as his representative, and was, most probably
the same· as Osiris. They knew the general purport
of the name and little more. If they believed On to
be the living and eternal God, they allowed the same
attributes to the Sun, which they undoubtedly wor-
* lntrod. to Meyrick's Cardigan.
t 2 Chron. xxxili. 36.-9 Kings xxiii. 6, 11.
Digitized by Coogle
LBCTURE·u.
shipped as·the LOrd of the creation. Oannes was the:
god of the Chaldeans; and Dag-On of the Philistines,
both of which are derivations of the same name. On,
was evidently the·same deity as the Hebrew Jehovah;
and was introduced amongst the Greeks by Plato, who
acknowledges his eternity and incomprehensibility in
these remarkable words ; " Tell me of the God On •
which Is, and never knew beginning."• And the same
name was used by the early Christians for the true
God; for St. John in the Apocalypse,t has this
expression ; o Ov, ""' o""' ~eac oepxofLevo-r, which is tran~
lated in our authorized version of the scriptures, by,
" HIM, which is, and which was, and which is to
come."
The same word with a small variation, was one of
. the names ·of· the Supreme Deity in India ; and a
devout meditation on it was considered capable of
conveying the highest degree of perfection. In the
Ordinances of Menu, we are informed how this sacred
word was produced. " Brahma milked out, as it were,
from the three Vedas, the letter A, the letter U, and
the letter M ; which form, by their coalitiou, the
triliteral monosyllable, together with three mysterious
words, bhur, bhuvah, swer i or, earth, sky, heaven."t
These three letters, which are pronounced OM, refer
to the deity in his triple capacity of Creator, Preserver,
*In Timreo. v. iii. p. 27. t i. 4.
~ Sir W. Jones' Wor~, voL iii. p. 98.
D2
Digitized by Coogle
36 LECTURE IJ,
and Destroyer. The method of using it is given in
the same code. " Three suppressions of breath, made
according to the divine rule, accompanied with the
triverbal phrase, bhurbhuvahswah and the triliteral
syllable OM, may be considered as the highest devotion
of a Brahmen."• Mr. Colebrooke informs us that
" a Brahmana, beginning and ending a Lecture of the
Veda, or the recital of any holy str~, must always
pronounce to himself the syllable OM ; for unless the
syllable OM precede, his learning will slip away from
him ; and unless it follow, nothing will be retained ; or
that syllable being prefixed to the several names of
worldst are manifestations of the power, signified by
that syllable."+
· From what has been said, we may reasonably infer,
that together with the name, the idolaters preserved
in their mysteries some indistinct knowledge of the
godhead, derived from the true system which preceded
them ; and accompanied with an acknowledgment
that he possessed the attribute of omnipresence ; the
Symbol of which was the same as that used in the
Science ·of Freemasonry; viz. an EYE, which was said
to be equally in every place, for the purpose of taking
a strict and impartial cognizance of human actions.
Fix your eyes, then, on that part of the Lodge,
where this expressive Emblem is delineated. It will
*Sir W. Jones' Works, vol. iii. p. i!S. .
t Vide Infra, Lect. viii. l: Asiat. Rea. vol. v. p. 86i.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE II. 37
remind you that .the Deity is watching over us, and
will weigh, in the balance of Truth, every action,
every word, every thought. As Masons, you are fully
impressed with this important consideration, because
it is fundamental to the Science you profess. It is
inculcated upon you in all our illustrations, and can
never be banished from your recollection. You are
conscious of the presence of that great and glorious
Being ;-you are conscious that at this very moment
he is employed in examining your hearts. They are
open to his inspection. But are they pure-are they
impressed with the never-failing virtues ofFaith, Hope,
and Charity-are they the abode of ·Temperance,
Fortitude, Prudence and Justice, those splendid Car-
dinal virtues, by which your Masonry professes to be
distinguished-does Brotherly Love bum brightly
there-do they prompt you to exercise the first, best
gift of heaven to your destitute Brethren, Relief-and
does Truth hold her seat in your bosoms? If you are
Masons in reality ; Masons in the strictest acceptance
of the term, your hearts are the seat of every moral
and social virtue ; and will not shrink from the close
inspection of the All-Seeing Eye of God. But we
cannot emulate absolute perfection ; and therefore our
hearts neither are, nor perhaps should be the abode
of celestial purity, unalloyed by human weakness or
hereditary contamination. Hence, whether as Masons
or as men, we cannot but entertain some feelings of
dread, under the reflection that we are subjected to the
Digitized by Coogle
88 ~Elf.
constant and perpetual superintendence of the AD-
Seeing Eye. And this is not a sensation either im-
proper or peculiar to ourselves. The best and most
virtuous Masons the world ever produced, as well as
wicked men, have entertained the same feelings.
When Adam fell from his primitive state of Innocence;
in the first agitation of remorse, he attempted to hide
himselffrom the presence of God,• because he dreaded
the consequences of His fearful inspection. Cain beard
his tremendous voice, and shrunk into himself with
terror.t Jacob saw the Lord in a vision, and when he
awoke from his sleep, he was afraid, and said, How
dreadful is this placel This is none other but the
house ofGod, and the gate of heavenIt Moses, under
the impression ofGod's presence, trembled exceedingly,
and confessed his very great apprehension.§ David
was horribly afraid under similar circumstances.U And
many instances occur of individuals being struck with
instant death, for their presumption in the immediate
presence of God. Uzzah but touched the Ark of the
Covenant over which the Lord dwelt, and was struck
dead in a moment.f And the Almighty smote and
slew fifty thousand men of Bethshesh, because they
irreverently looked into the ark.• •
These instances are amply sufficient to convince you,
not merely of the universal presence of the Deity, but
*Gen. iii. 8. t Gen. iv. IS. ~Gen. xxviii. 11. SHeb. xii. 21.
112 Sam. 'ri. 9.~Paahn v. 7. liJ 2 Sam. vi. 6. - 1 Sam. vi.l9.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE 11. 39
of his decided abhorrence of all impurity and careless-
ness ofliving. If therefore, as Masons, you are willing
to be the Objects of his fatherly superintendence, let
these reflections accompany all your labours, all your
recreations ;-and when the business ofthe day is about
to be closed; let us with all humility and reverence
return our grateful acknowledgments to the great
Architect of the Universe, for favours already received,
and supplicate his support on our endeavours to adorn
and cement our lives and actions, with every moral
and social virtue.
Digitized by Coogle
40
LECTURE III.
ON THE SERPENT.
"So spake the enemy of mankind, enclose<l
In SERPENT inmate bad, and towards Eve
Addreaa'd hie way, not with indented wave,
Prone on the ground, as since, but on hia rear
Circular base of rising folds, that tower'd
Fold above fold, a surging maze, hie head
Created aloft, and carbuncle his eyes,
With burnished neck of verdant gold, erect
Amidst hia circling spires, that on the grass
Floated abundant; pleasing was his shape
And lovely." Milton.
THE Serpent is universally esteemed a legitimate
Symbol of Freemasonry ; yet though commonly intro-
duced into all the groups of emblematical characters,
which the fancy of ingenious Brethren may have de-
signed, either for amusement or instruction, its origin
and secret reference are not satisfactorily accounted
for in the peculiar Lectures of Masonry. The subject
may be involved in some uncertainty, but an attention
to the general principles on which our Science has
been founded, may do much towards unravelling the
mystery; and may chance to produce a genuine illus-
tration. One great result of the enquiry will cer-
tainly be, that the emblematical Serpent will be found
to have had a place in the most ancient systems of
primitive Masonry, and was a Symbol almost coequal
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IU. 41
with its institution on this globe, by the first created
man.
You are not ignorant that the Serpent has an
established place amongst our emblems; although its
true allegorical reference is not given in our accustomed
disquisitions. It may be urged that this animal is the
Symbol of Wisdom, as the Dove is of Innocence,
because our Saviour connects these qualities with the
same creatures.• But this is to be satisfied wlth a
very contracted explanation of a significant emblem,
which certainly represents our fall in Adam, and our
restoration in Christ; a subject of no ordinary import-
ance; but one· which embraces a comprehensive
scheme, framed by the divine hand ; and conveying
the blessing of eternal happiness in a future state.
When our first parents were placed in the garden of
Eden, as the abode of purity and peace, with angels
for associates, and honoured with the peculiar presence
of the Deity ; their tenure was secured by the observ-
ance ofone single condition, which was imposed merely
as a test of their obedience;-they were forbidden to
eat of the fruit which grew upon the Tree of Know-
ledge. How simple soever this prohibition may
appear, they were induced by the flattering wiles of
the Devil, who assumed the form of A SERPENT for
this specific purpose, to forego, or at least, to render
precarious all the actual felicity they enjoyed, for the
* Matt. x. 16.
Digitized by Coogle
LBcroRE m.
dOOeitful hope ofsome greater acquisition ofknowledge
or power, which was promised by the tempter, as the
certain result of violating the divine·command.
Various have been the opinions advanced by theo-
rists on this knotty question ; by what kind of animal
was our great mother betrayed ? I shall lay before you
a few of the most remarkable speculations of learned
men, because they bear upon the subject under our
notice, and may engage your attention or curiosity.
" Some believe that the Serpent had then the use of
speech, and conversed familiarly with the woman;
without her conceiving any distrust of him ; and that
God, to punish the malice with which he abused Eve,
deprived him of the use of speech. Others believe
that the Devil transformed himself into a Serpent, and
spoke to Eve under the.figure of this animal. Others
maintain that a real and common Serpent having eaten
ofthe forbidden fruit, Eve from thence concluded that
she too mig~t eat of it without danger ; that in e1fect
she did eat of it, and incurred the displeasure of God
by her disobedience. This, say these authors, is the
plain matter of fact, which Moses would relate under
the allegorical representation of the Serpent conversing
with Eve. Cajetan will have this whole story, as it is
related by Moses in the way of dialogue between the
woman and the serpent, to be figurative only, to sig-
nify the inward suggestions of the Devil, and the
woman's weak resistance. Others· affirm that the
Serpent's speech was nothing but hissing; and that Eve
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE UI,
understanding all creatures by their voices, appre-
hended what this animal had to say to her by·the noise
it made. Lyranus reportS the opinion of some to be,
that the Serpent put on the face of a beautiful young
woman to tempt Eve. And some Rabbins believe that
Samael, prince of devils, came in person to tempt ETe,
mounted on a Serpent as large as a Came\t"• Eugubi-
nus thinks the animal was a basilisk;t and to crown
this mass of absurdity, Dr. Adam Clarke, gravely tella
his readers that the tempter was not a Serpent, but
an apet!I :j:
However this may be, and perhaps I may oft'er a sug-
gestion to clear the difficulty before I conclude, it is
certain that our first parents iost their innocence, and
instead of the expected good, gained in return the cer-
'tainty only that they had forfeited the protectiou ofGod,
and were in reality blind and miser.able, naked and in
despair. Driven now accursed into a world oftroubles
and calamities, the unhappy consequences of their
want of faith, their eyes were indeed opened, but it
was to a bitter sense of misery and shame ; they were
become liable to sin and sorrow, sickness and deaths
they beheld with deep remorse the dying agonies of
those animals which were slain for sacrifice, pursuant
to the divine command, certain that their own dissolu-
tion must follow, attended probably with similar pangs;
*Calm. Plct. vol. i. p. 37. t Brown's Vulg. Err. p. v. c. 4-.
: Family Bible. Note on Gen. iii. I.
Digitized by Coogle
44 LECTURE m;
and with broken hearts and uplifted hands; they cried
to their offended God for mercy. The Deity listened
to the humble petition of his fallen creatures, because
he saw that their repentance was sincere ; and gave
them a revelation, that the ~ft'ects of their sin should
be wiped away, and their posterity restored to his
favour. He promised that the woman's seed should
bruise the serpent's head; which was so exhilarating
to our common mother, that, at the birth of Cain, her
eldest son, she entertained a belief that in him the
promise was fulfilled, whi?h would restore to her the
joys she had forfeited ; and in an ecstasy of delirious
joy she exclaimed, " I have gotten a man, even the
Lord Jehovah;'' for such is the true meaning of the
original Hebrew in Gen. IV. 1. The vices of Cain
would speedily convince her that this was not the
promised seed ; and she acquiesced with silence and
submission in the dispensations of Providence. The
prophecy, however, was triumphantly fulfilled in the
Messiah, who came to destroy, and did, even in his
human character, ·gain a ~ecisive victory over the
Serpent, the adversary of God and man.
The great scheme of this Evil Spirit was to rob man
of the happiness he enjoyed in paradise, and by that
means to counteract the design of God in the creation.
He succeeded in the first i~stance, but the main part
of his plan was defeated by Jesus Christ, who has
reconciled man to God; and by the efficaey ofhis birth,
life, death, resurrection, and ascension, typified by the
Digitized by Coogle
LRlTURB III.
Five Grand Pillars of Masonry, he has utterly de-
stroyed the works of that old serpent, the devil,•
circumscribed his power, and bound him in everlasting
chains and darkness unto the judgment of the last
day.t
Hence this emblem amongst Masons has an un-
doubted reference to the establishment of christianity,
which gave a death blow to the power of the Evil
Spirit. The Serpent had engrossed the worship of all
mankind; and by his oracles+ had enslaved their
minds in the fetters of superstition and overwhelming
darkness. But the incarnation of Christ, by striking
his oracles dumb,§ relieved his deluded votaries from
* Rev. XL 2. t Jude 6.
~ Potter (Archmol Grl!!c. L 2. c. 9.) gives a fearful account of the con-
nection between serpents and oracles. He says that " under the tripos where
the Pythia delivered her responses, sometimes appeared a dragon that
returned answers; and that the Pytbig. was once killed by him. And
Eusebius reports ~pa~eovTa 1repl '{OP Tpt7ro~a, that a serpent rolled him-
self about the tripod." How potent soever might be the spirit which com-
municated inspiration to the Pythia, many instances are on record where the
priestesa refused t.o yield obedience to his injunctions. Bribes have been
·accepted by several of the Pythi~e ; who, for a stipulated remuneration, did
f/>i').,,.,..,.{tetv, or deliver their oracles at the dictation of their employers;
and Nero dared the vengeance of the spirits of the sacred cavern by openly
polluting it with the blood of men slain at the cavern's mouth. But when
ba.rbariilm gave way to civilization, these Oracles certainly began to fail;
and at the appearance of Jesus Christ to show mankind their fallacy and
guide them by the light of truth under the high sanction of revelation, they
became wholly silent and were heard, no more. (Plut. de orac. defec.) Juve-
nal in his sixth Satire says, Delphia oracula cessant. And Strabo (L 7.)
aays that in the time of Augustus Ceasar the oracle at Dodona ceased to give
responses.
. S Strabo. l. vii.
Digitized by Coogle
46 LBCTURB 01.
the effects·of his potent agency. And he himself wa.S
reluct&ntly compelled to announce his degradation; for
when Augustus consulted the oracle at Delphi, it
answered that a child was born in Judea, who, being
the Supreme God, had commanded him to depart, and
he durst not disobey.•
You may deem it something more than accidental,
that there should exist a tradition of the Messiah
bruising the Serpent's head, and the Serpent bruising·
his heel, equally in the east and in the west ; amongst
the Indians, the Greeks, and the Goths ofScandinavia.
And yet it is an indisputable fact, that each of these·
nations preserved in their respectiye systems ofreligion,
this very remarkable prophecy.t In the former coun-
try the Brahmins have in their temples, some sculptured
figures, which are unquestionably descriptive of this
event. One of them represents· their middle god
Vishnu or Kreeshna with his foot on the Serpent's
head ; and another has the same god encompassed in
the folds of a serpent, which is in the act of biting his
* Suid. in voe. Delphi.
t How extraordinary thatevery remarkable event which aetnally occured
in the infllncy of the world, was accurately preserved by idolatrous nations,
how widely soever they had departed from that peculiar people to whom
the conservation of the antediluvian history.was committed. A Son of the
first man was violently aaaaulted and slain by his brother, as we are told by
Moses. Accordingly other nations have a corresponding tradition. San-
choniatho has recorded that a Son of Uranaa was killed by his brothers. In
Diodorus we find Hesperion meets a similar fate; and the Persian annals re-
present Siameck the son of Cai-Amurath, the first king of Persia, as being
killed by giants. Howard'a Thoughta on the Structure ofthe Globe, P• i!i!9.
Digitized by Coogle
LBCTURE nl.' 47
heel.• .In the same mythology, a monster compounded
of a ma.n and an eagle, called Ga.ruda, is represented
as being placed at the eastern portal of the garden of
Eden, to prevent the intrusion qf Serpents ; to which
animals he was supposed to bear a decided antipathy.
After a long conflict, however, he destroyed them all
except one, which he slung round his neck as a
trophy.t This fable evidently refers to the expulsion
of Adam from Paradise, the cherubim placed to exclude
his contaminated race; and the ultimate destruction of
them all, except the Patriarch Noah.
The Greek mythology furnishes us with another
instance of this primitive doctrine, in its fable of the
garden of Hesperides. Here existed a tree which
bore golden apples; but it was guarded from violation
by a serpent, whose folds encircled the trunk of the
sacred tree. Hercules successfully engaged the ser-
pent, and having slain him, took away the precious
fruit. This event being deemed of sufficient import-
ance to be perpetuated, was introduced into the Celestial
Sphere, where Hercules is represented as trampling
on the Serpent's head.
In Scandinavia, Thor, who is worshipped as a medi-
ator, is said to have bruised the head of the great Ser-
pent with his club;t and in a final engagement with the
monster, it is predicted that he shall overcome and slay
•· Vid. Maurice's Hist. of Hindostan, Plates, vol. ii. p. 290.
t Moor's Hind. Panth. p. 336. : Edda. Fab. 27.
Digitized by Coogle
48 LECTURE Ill.
him; though himself shfL)l perish from the poisonous
exhalations which proceed out of his mouth during the
terrible encounter.•
Thus far the application of this Symbol is exceed-
ingly satisfactory; and worthy of an introduction into
a system which was instituted to keep alive in our
hearts a veneration for the Supreme Being, and an
unmixed love of virtue and pure morality. But we
must now extend our views to distant regions, and
mark in what manner, and for what purposes this same
Symbol was introduced into other institutions, bearing
the character of Freemasonry, until the absolute wor-
ship ofthe Serpent became a superstition prevalent
throughout the whole world.
Justin Martyr tells .us,t that among all the things
which were accounted sacred amongst the Greeks, the
Serpent was particularly considered as a very mysterious
emblem. It is indeed most singular that Serpents
should be either real or symbolical objects of devotion,
in almost every known system offalse religion. They
were universal emblems of life and·health ; received
the appellation of the beneficient dremon, and were
visible representatives of the god of creation and
providence. And it is still more remarkable that
there was always attached to the Serpent, an undefined
idea of some restoration to the divine favour, which was
expected to be accomplished by a gratuitous sacrifice.
* E1lda. Fab. 32. t Apol. i. p. 60.
Digitized by Coogle
49
If you will accompAny me in my progress from one
country to another, we will endeavour to produce a
complete illustration of this Symbol founded on the
facts which I have already laid before you. Egypt
was the great conservator of ancient idolatry ; and
here we will commence our researches. In Egypt the
Serpent forJiled a Symbol of the most awful images in
existence.• Cneph was the serpent god of this people;
he was the second person of the sacred Triad, and said
to be the Creator of the· world.t He was usually
represented by ·a hooded snake, sometimes called
Basiliscus, or the Royal Serpent. The Egyptian
temples were full of representations of this god.t
Eternity was ever present to the mind of the devout
worshipper, under the similitude of a Serpent with its
tail in its mouth, or an endless Serpent enclosing
an Eye ; and Wisdom was represented by the same
animal extended at length. Did he meditate on the
mysterious Tri-Une deity, Eicton-Cneph-Phtha, he was
presented to the worshipper's recollection, by the
figure of a Globe and a Winged Serpent ; the Globe
symbolized the Supreme and Eternal God, the Serpent,
the animating principle, and the Wings, the hovering
Spirit of God, which moved on the face of the waters
at the creation of the world.
Bend we now our course towards the farthest bounds
* Kirch. in <Edip. syn. 18. p. 508. Herod in Euterp.
t Euseb. prep. evan. 1. iii. c. 11.
:): Vid. Belzoni's Researches in Egypt, Plates.
E
Digitized by Coogle
;)0 LECTuftE IJI,
of the East, to learn what the Persians, the Indians,
and the Chinese believed about this noxious reptile•.
In the former country, the Serpent was worshipped,•
and considered an emblem of the Sun, which was
esteemed the supernal habitation of their great god
Mithras.t And the visible Symbol, was, the deity
enveloped in the folds of an enormous snake.+ In
India, the Serpent was elevated into an object of
adoration;§ and the splendid temples at Elora, contain
many specimens of Serpent deities. In the second
story of Teen Tal, at the south end of the veranda is
a very large figure of Sey Deo, or more commonly
Seyhudea, the immortal Serpent.ll In the temple
of Jagnat, innumerable figures of Serpents are in-
scribed on the walls,, which display the antiquity
and prevalence of this degraded worship in the vast
regions of Hindostan. Vishna and Siva are equally
represented as encompassed by curling Serpents, ·to
denote their divine original.
In China, we again find this loathsome reptile raised
to divine honours and worshipped. A Ring supported
by two Serpents, was an awful symbol amongst the
Chinese, emblematical of the World protected by the
power and governed by the wisdom of the Creator.
This people were indeed most superstitiously attached
to the worship of dragons or serpents. The sixty-four
--------------------·--- --- -
------
* Euseb. prep. evan.l. i. c. 10.
:1: Montf. Ant. vol. ii. p. 368.
II Seeley's Elora, p. 175.
t Strabo. I. xv. Suid. in voc.
§ Maurice's Indian Ant. vol. v. p. IOU.
11" Ibid. p. 216.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Ill. 51
Symbols of the god Fo-Hi,, who is·said to have had the
body of a Serpent,• · were revealed by this animal
emerging from the bottom of a sacred lake. And
thunder or rain, fair and foul weather, are equally
attributed to the influence of the Serpent.t
From the East proceed we to the West, making a
short excursion to New Zealand, as we traverse the
vast ocean which separates China and Japan from the
continent of America. These savages have no 'writte.n
records, and yet from oral tradition alone they know
that the Serpent once spake with the human voice ;
and hence they adore him as a superior being. But
he is their god of sorrow. They believe also that man
was first created, and that woman was formed out of
one of his ribs, separated from his side. by the Deity
himself, to be his companion .and friend, while as yet
there existed no mortal but himself.+
In the savage regions of America we find abundant
traces of this superstition. The two parents of the
human race, were said by the Mexicans, to have been
preserved from the effects of the deluge, by means of
Serpents; which induced the adoration of this animal.
The visible symbol ofthat preservation, was a Rainbow,
with a Serpent suspended from each end of it. The
temples of their·bloody and vindictive deities, were
* CoupleL Praef'. ad Tab. Cbron. p. 3. in Fab. Pag. Idol. vol. i. p. 453.
t Du Halde's China, voL i. p. 270.
+Marsden in Christ. Obeerv. 1810, Nov. p. 724.
E'l
Digitized by Coogle
52 LECTURE Ill.
covered with representations of Serpents,• in all their
terrible varieties ; and their high god Vitzliputzli was
pourtrayed in the shape of a man, whose hideou!J
countenance was rendered truly horrible anddisgusting,
by certain black lines drawn across his forehead and
his nose. He was seated on a Globe, which was a
symbol of his universal power, over a lofty altar
supported by four long poles, each end of which was
ornamented with a serpent's head. His right hand
grasped a serpent, and his left a buckler ·with arrows,
all charged with emblematical devices, each conveying
some mysterious signification, and inculcating some
useful lesson known only to the initiated.t
This general veneration of so filthy a reptile, is
somewhat astonishing, but you may rely on iny accu-·
racy and fidelity. I have spared no pains in the
research; and if I had not honestly believed it was
in my power to add to your stock of Masonic know-
ledge, as well as to interest and amuse your ~inds,"
I should not have offered these Lectures to your
notice. I have however, still more extraordinary facts
to relate.
Returning to our own quarter of the globe, we find ·
Serpent worship so very prevalent in the early ages of
the world, as to impose a distinguishing appellation
on the whole continent ; for Europe is said to have
*Gage'& Surv. of the West [ndies, p. 117.
t Purch. Pilgr. b. viii. c. 11. p. 796.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Ill. 53
'derived its name from the worship of Eur- Op, the
serpent of the Sun.•
The inhabitants of ancient Scandinavia accounted
·living Serpents sacred, and fed them daily with milk.t
The Serpent formed a constituent part of their sacred
Triad. The priests practised augury by its assistance,
because they considered it endued with some portion
of celestial prescience. By virtue of certain incanta-
tions they tempted the Serpents from their hiding
places; and offered them choice provisions. If they
came freely and partook of what was set before them,
it was accounted a good omen ; but if they exhibited
any appearance of reluctance, and lurked about, or
returned to their holes without accepting the proffered
food, the omen was deemed unpropitious, and portended
some fatal disaster. In the most barbarous districts,
it is said that the remains of this superstition exists at
the present day.
In Gaul Serpents were emblem\tical of wisdom and
truth. A curious statue representing the goddess of
Truth, has been discovered amongst the ruins of the
ancient temple of Montmorillon in Poictou, and Mont-
faucon has given a plate of it.:t: " The goddess is quite
naked; and two serpents, (emblems of wisdom) twined
round her legs and body, are embraced by both her
hands to show the harmony, connection, and insepar-
.
* Fab. Cabir. vol. i. p. 180. t Olaus Magnus. Hist. Septentr. L xxi. c. 30.
:f: Mont. Supplem. tom. ii. p. 221.
Digitized by Coogle
54 .LECTURE UJ.
able union between wisdom and truth ; the heads of
both these serpents are applied to the breasts of the
goddess, to show that wisdom draws all her support
from truth ; they are clasped fast and directed to the
seat of nourishment, to show that truth readily yields
her choicest treasures, her most amiable beauties to
the .searches. of the wise and studious."•
We Will close our enquiries in the country where we
live, for our predecessors, the ancient Britons, carried
this superstition to as great an extent as the inhabitants
of any other nation. The Druids had a high venera-
tion for the Serpent. Their great god Hu was
typified by that reptile ; and he is represented by the
Bards, as " the wonderful chief Dragon, the sovereign
ofheaven."t Dr. Stukeley says, that "the stupendous
temple at Abury in Wiltshire, is the picture of the
Deity; and more particularly of the Trinity; but most
particularly what they anciently called the Father and
the Word, who created all things; this figure you will
find on the tops of all the obelisks ; being equivalent
to the Hebrew Tetragrammaton. A snakeproceeding
.from a circle, is the internal procession of the Son
from the First Cause. The Egyptians frequently
added Wings to it, then it was the Trinity properly ;
but our ancestors judged, I suppose, that they could ·
not represent the wings well in stone work, so omitted
them. The Egyptians called this figure, Hemptha ;
* Borl. Ant. of Com. p. 103. t Davies' Druids, p. 1~, 121.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Ill. 55
the Greeks, in abbreviated writing used it for Daimon~
or the good genius ; the Brachmans, in the East Indies
use it ; the Chinese, the ancient Persians, with whom
it still remains at Persepolis; the Americans, otiD
Britons ; this shows it was extremely ancient ; but o_f
all nations, our ancestors have had the greatest vene_,
ration for it, that they have expanded it in so laborious
a picture, three miles long."•
The most potent symbol or amulet ofDruidism wa.S
the Anguinum or Glain-neidr, which derived its sole
efficacy from its connection with the Serpent. It was
attended by a serpent, which had entwined itselfround
the centre of the amulet, as the conservator of its
virtues; and signified the superintending care which
an eternal Being affords to his creatures. The an-
guinum was said to be produced from the Saliva of a
large ball ofSerpents closely interwoven together; and.
being impelled into the air by the hissing of the
serpents, was received by a horseman in a pure white
cloth, who was obliged to retire precipitately from the
spot, to escape the fury of the serpents, who usually
pursued the fugitive until they were impeded by a river
which they were unable to cross.t
The Serpent with its tail in its mouth, was an em-
blem of Eternity with the Druids ; and it read to
the initiated a .strikinglesson on the certainty ofdeath;
* Letter from Dr. Stukeley to Mr. G.Ue, Stamford, June 25, 1730.
+Vid. Antiq. of Masonry, p. 122, note.
o,g,tized by Coogle
56 LECTURE Ul.
teaching them the universal fiat of nature, that every
one who is born into the world must return to the place
from whence be came, and be resolved into his original
dust.
• The reason to be assigned for the general worship
of the Serpent, may, with some probability, be as fol-
lows. Man, having brought himself under the domi-
nation of Satan, not only by listening to his suggestions
in the garden, but by a subsequent renunciation of the
primitive worship ; and feeling that he was accursed
without possessing in himself the means of restoration
to the divine favour, was willing to propitiate the being
to whom all his misery was to be attributed, and whc;>
was hence esteemed the arbiter of his fate, by offering
for his acceptance the rites of divine worship. Hence
we find that in ·every system of idolatry, the chief
. deities were said to have taken up their abode in the
bodies ofserpents; and a serpent attached to the statue
of.a god in any part of the world, was considered an
unequivocal mark of his divinity; from which belief,
the devil, in holy Scripture, is usually denominated a
Serpent or Dragon.•
The antiquity of Serpent worship cann<?t be safely
asserted ; but it might commence very soon after. the
institution of idolatry, for Taut or Thoth was esteemed
by the Phrenicians as the first person who introduced
the worship of serpents amongst mankind;t and Thoth
* Rev. xii. 9. xiii. 4. t Euseb. praep. evan. I. i. c. 10.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Ill. 57
or Pathrusim was the great grandson of Noah. It
may be reasonably conjectured however, that the vene-
ration of this animal might date its original even from
Paradise; for it is an.ancient opinion,• that the angels
of heaven who conversed with Adam before his un-
happy fall, assumed the bright form of winged serpents.
On any other principle, it will be difficult to conceive
how our great mother should so familiarly admit the
approaches of an animal, which, she would otherwise
be certain, could neither speak nor act rationally.
But if the angels associated with Adam in this specific
form, the difficulty vanishes, for our grand adversary,
by assuming a shape which would elude suspicion,
might reasonably expect to succeed in accomplishing
his perfidious purposes. And hence it should appear
that this animal, which, from the splendour of its
colours, and the geometrical exactness of the figures
which nature has painted on the outer surface of its
skin, is possessed of great external beauty, was, before
the fall, an object of unmixed admiration and delight
unequalled by any other created animal. It was sub-
sequently to that melancholy deviation from God's
commands, that the serpent became an object ofhorror
and loathing to mankind, and was unquestionably
worshipped by the first idolaters in the way of propi-
tiation.
It must here be observed, that in the mythology of
* Vid. Tenison's Idolatry, c. u.
Digitized by Coogle
58 LECTURE Ill.
heathen nations, two kinds of serpents were introduced,
endowed with different and contrary attributes. The
one was malignant, a symbol of the evil principle, and
accounted instrumental in producing the universal
deluge ; the other beneficent, and supposed to possess
every good and estimable quality. And these powers
are represented as engaged in acts of continued
hostility.
In the ages immediately subsequent to the flood,
the sons of Noah would propagate amongst their
posterity, the fact, that the knowledge of good and
evil was acquired by the original parents of mankind,
through the intervention of a Serpent, endowed with
Speech, Wisdom, and Foresight. Such a represen-
tation proceeding from authority, would naturally
induce a high degree of respect and veneration for an
animal possessing these extraordinary attributes ;
which would soon degenerate into actual worship, when
the true God was entirely forsaken. This may be
assumed as the true cause of Serpent worship; and it is
highly probable that both Jews and Christians, as well
as acknowledged idolaters, have adored this animal on
precisely the same principle.
Amongst the nations contiguous to the Jews, it
might have a further reference to the Seraphim or
ministering Angels of that people; for Saraph signifies
equally a fiery Serpent,• and an Angel.t And the
.,. Numb. xxi. 6, 8. t Isaiah vi•
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Ill. 59
miraculous cures effected by the Brazen Serpent would
give an additional impulse to the practice; particularly
when we consider that at a subsequent period, the
Israelites themselves elevated this very symbol into an
object of idolatrous worship.• And I may add, with
a learned mythologist, often quoted, that " since the
fiery and flitting appearance of the Seraphim stationed
before the garden of Eden, would bear a considerable
resemblanee to that of the fiery flying Serpent ; and
sin~ the very same appellation was employed to de-
signate each of them, it was not unnatural to conclude,
that the form of the flying Serpent entered into the
composition of the Seraphic or Cherubic emblems.
We have no warrant indeed from Scripture to suppose
that this was really the case ; yet the notion itself,
however erroneous, seems to have been of very great
antiquity ; and the existence of such a notion would
obviously cause the serpent, particularly the winged
serpent, to be viewed as a fit symbol of the Agatho-
dremon."t
Before I conclude this account of Serpent worship,
I cannot omit to lay before you a veiJ curious and
extraordinary account of the same superstition, as
practised by a sect ofChristians who were denominated
Ophitre, " both from the veneration they had for the
Serpent that tempted Eve, and the worship they paid
to a real Serpent. They pretended that the Serpent
* 2 Kings xvili. 4. t Fab. Pag. Idol. p. ii. c. 1.
Digitized by Coogle
60 LECTURE Ill.
was Jesus C4rist, and that he taught men the know;.
ledge of good and evil. They distinguished between
.JestU and Christ : Jesus, they said was born of the
Virgin, but Christ came down from heaven to be united
;with him; Jesus was crucified, but Christ had left him
to return to heaven. They had a live Serpent which
they kept in a kind of cage ; at certain times they
opened the cage-door, and called the serpent: the
animal <'..&me out and mounting upon the table, twined
itselfabout some loaves ofbread: this bread they broke,
and distributed it to the company, who all kissed the
t~erpent in turn. This they called their Eucharist!"•
. Thus have I exhibited for your consideration, a very
comprehensiv~ account of the origin and uses of this
emblem in every nation of the ancient world. Amongst
Masons, as I have already observed, it serves to remind
us of our fall in Adam and our restoration in Christ ;
who has not only bruised the Serpent's head, but has
restricted his power, and frustrated his malevolent
intentions, by revealing to mankind the conditions of
salvation, purchased by his own sufferings and death.
* Encyc. Perth. in voc. Ophites.
Digitized by Coogle
61
LECTURE .JV.
ON THE CHERUBIM.
~ Forth rush'd with whirlwind sound
'fhe chariot of paternal deity,
Flashing thick flames, wheel within wheel indrawn,
Itself instinct with spirit, but convoy'd
By four CuEBUBIC shapes: four faces each
Had wondrous; as with stars their bodies all,
And wings were set with eyes; with eyes the wheels
Of beryl, and careering fires between."
Milton.
EvERY branch of science is progressive. In the
First Degree of Masonry, we are taught the several
duties of our station, whether tO God, our neighbour,
or ourselves ;-the practice of the Theological and
Cardinal Virtues, and every moral and social work.·
In the Second Degree we are admitted to a participation·
in the mysteries ofhuman science ; and catch a glimpse
of celestial glory. But in the Third Degree, the veil
is removed ; we are admitted to the Holy of Holies ;
we view the Cherubim in all their brightness; and are
blessed with a foretaste of heaven, through the resurrec-·
tion of the dead. And if we pass on to the Royal
Arch, we receive a wonderful accession of knowledge,
andfind every thing. made perfect ; for this is the ,ne
Digitized by Coogle
62 LECTURE IV.
plus ultra of Masonry, and can never be exceeded by
any human Institution.
In the peculiar Lectures of Masonry, much import-
ance is attached to that great symbol of the glory of
God, the Cherubim. It is a subject which adds much
to the dignity and authority of our Science; inasmuch
as its illustration has formed an important part of
Speculative Masonry, from the moment that it flamed
in awful grandeur on the Eastern portal of the garden
of Eden to the present time.
It is a curious phenomenon in the worship ofheathen
nations, that their ideas of the Deity, as comprehended
under.a visible form, were invariably derived from the
Symbols .f the Patriarchal or the Jewish religion, and
principally from the system used by the former, which
was the grand trunk or root, from which the religious
institutions of every nation and people, shot forth their
luxuriant branches. The great symbol of the Deity,
used both by the Patriarchlil and their legitimate suc-
cessors the Jews, was the Cherubim ofGlory, expressive
of the wisdom and power of Jehovah ; and this in-
vested these pure systems of worship with a distinctive
character of holiness and truth, which the gentiles in
vain strove to emulate, by an adoption of the consti-
tuent parts of the symbol, as real and acknowledged
objects of genuine and rational devotion. In the pre-
sent Lecture, I shall endeavour to illustrate this Che-
rubic Symbol, which in all ages has constituted one of
tho secrets of legitimate Masonry ; and if we find that
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IV.
it has been actually adopted into the mysterious institu..,
tions of every system of false religion known amongst'
men; this fact will be amply sufficient to warrant a con-·
elusion, that they all emanated from the same source.
This .sublime symbol was vouchsafed to man at the~
fall ; and.was placed over the East Gate of the garden
of Eden upon an Ark, overshadowed by the divine
glory or Shekinah. Here it remained, a permanent
token of the divine presence, until the accumulated
sins of men provoked the Almighty to withdraw
his glory, and substitute a deluge of waters, which
swept the apostate .race from off the earth. It was
renewed at the deliverance of God's chosen people from
the tyranny ofEgypt, and was again lost at the destruc-
tion ofthe temple by Nebuchadnezzar; but was revealed
to Ezekiel, when the rebuij.ding of that celebrated
editice demanded a divine communication to impart the
true form of the glorious Symbol, by which God had
graciously manifested himself to his favourite peoplein
ancient times, and which might probably have been
lost, or inaccurately preserved during the calamities
and privations attending a long and oppressive captivity
in a foreign land.
This glorious appearance was exhibited to the pro-
phet's enraptured view in a splendid and incomparable
vision; and is described by him• as consisting of an
animal with the body of an Ox, invested with four
*Chap. i.
Digitized by Coogle
64 LECTlTRE JV.
distinct heads ofa Lion, an Ox, an Eagle, and a Man.
The three first bore a striking resemblance to the
Trinity ; and the fourth head was that of a man, to
denote that He, who, in his infinite mercy conde-
scended to work out our salvation, should be clothed
with humanity to accomplish the undertaking, and
execute the great design as a created being. The
whole compound figure was an apt symbol of all the
Redeemed, thus placed under the visible protection of
the Deity, manifested in the Shekinah, which extended
its gracious influence over the Mercy Seat, on which
the Cherubim were placed.
It was shadowed forth in the camp of the Israelites.
The standard of Judah was emblazoned with the figure
of a Lion, and hence the king of Judah was emble-
matically denominated a ~ion ;• that of Ephraim, with
an Ox ; that of Reuben, with a man ; and that of
Dan, with an Eagle.t The Cabalists to identify these
banners with the Deity, used to inscribe each of them
with a letter of the Tetragrammaton, or sacred name
of God; and the banners of the whole twelve tribes,
were made symbols of the circle of the Zodiac, and
represented the twelve months of the year ; the solsti-
* Ezekiel xix. S.
t " Diodorus Siculua adduces a corres~nding custom in Egypt ; ami
among the Greeks, we observe that the shield of Agamemnon bore a LioN's
HEAD, that of Alcibiades, a SERPENT, that of Cadmus, a Da.&ooN, and that
of Ulysr.es, a DoLPHIN." Wait's Antiq. vol. i. p. 149. More anciently the
distinguishing symbols were placed upon the helmet. Thus the Crest of
Osiris was a hawk, of Horus, a Lion, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTtiRE IV. 65
tial and equinoctial points being symbolized by the four
great banners of Judah, Ephraim, Reuben, and Dan.•
It pointed out the nature of Angels. The repre-
sentation of a Man, a Lion, an Ox, and an Eagle
referred to their understanding, their power, their
patient ministration, their swiftness in executing the
commands of the Most High.t The Ox being the
symbol of Fire ; the Lion, of Light, from the rays
which were supposed to dart from his eyes ; and the
Eagle, from his rapid excursions into that element,
being the symbol of Air; the union of Fire, Light, and
Air or Spirit, were not only emblematical of the nature
ofministering angels about the throne of God; but were
the act,ual vehicles by which the Deity himself had
condescended personally to communicate with man.t
Calmet thinks that "the figure of the Cherubim was
not always uniform, since they are differently described
in the shape of men, eagles, oxen, and lions, and in a
composition of all these figures put together. Moses
likewise calls those symbolical or hieroglyphical repre-
sentations which were· represented in embroideries
upon the Veils of the Tabernacle, Cherubims of costly
work. Such were the symbolical figures which the Eyp-
tians placed at the gates oftheir temples, and the images
of the generality of their gods, which were nothirig com- ·
monly but Statues composed of men and animals."§
*Brown's Vulg. Err. b. v. c. 10. t Tremel. in Ezekiel i.
t Heb. xii. 29.-Psalm xxvii. I.-John viii. 12. and iv. 24-, &c.
§ Calmet's Diet. in voc. Cherubim.
F
Digitized by Coogle
66 LECTURE IV.
Do you enquire for what particular purpose the
Cherubim were designed? On this mysterious subject
I fear we must be contented to remain in ignorance.
To attempt to elucidate their u~e or application among
the Patriarchs and Idolaters, in the Tabernacle or in
the Temple, would only involve the subject in additional
difficulty and obscurity. An enlightened Jewish Ra.bbi
(Bechai)"ha.s observed, that God was declared to have
been seated above them, lest any person should imagine
that such was the form of God himself, who alone is
to be worshipped. He further avers that their wings
were stretched upwards to show that they were only
appointed to receive the divine influence coming on
them from God above.• Itis indeed eVident that they
could not be the form of the Deity himself, because they
are described,t as constantly employed in paying ho-
mage to Him that sat on the Throne ; which is the
unquestionable quality of an inferior being.
"The Ark of the Covenant," says Archbishop
Tenison, " considered in all the appendages of it,
God vouchsafed to the Jews in place of all the Statues
or Creatures, or appearances of Dmmons, which their
fancy was apt to adore, and in which Dmmons did
already, or might afterwards coanterfeit some shows of
the Glorious Shekinah of God. The whdle of the Ark
seems to some, the triumphant chariot of God moved
by Angels, set forth by the form of beasts who drew
*Wait's Antiq. vol i. p. 166. t Rev. iv. 8.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE IV. 67
the chariots of the eastern kings ; whose pomp the
poets exalted into heaven in the chariots of their gods.
This of the true God is represented as moving by
angels in the clouds, not as any fixed Throne in itself;
the power and providence of God, whose chariot hath
wheels with eyes, making all the world its circle; though
often it took its way to the Tabernacle and Temple.
Why Cherubims were added, the cause hath been often
intimated already ; to wit, by reason that the Logos
appearing as God's Shekinah, was attended with angels
and especially with Cherubim."•
To Adam and his posterity this symbol was familiar,.
for it was continually before their eyes. And though
withdrawn at the flood, its application was not forgotten
by the sons ·of Noah. Sheni and a certain portion of
his descendants tra.Rsferred it, along with the Science
which they alone preserved in its original purity.
Ham and Japheth were also acquainted with this sub-
lime emblem; and in the mysteries established by tbenl
on the broad foundation ofMasonry, and disseminated
by their posterity, it was consequently adopted, but
with an erroneous reference. The results were such
as might be anticipated. When the true invisible
God was renounced and forgotten, this symbol fur-
nished mankind with plausible substitutes; and hence
in almost all the heathen nations of which we have
any account, the Supreme Being was worshipped un.der
* Teuison'sldolatry, p. S39, !40.
F2
68 LECTURE IV.
the corporeal form of one or other of its component
parts ; and they all ultimately referred to the Sun, as
the visible likeness of that divine Shekinah by which
the Mercy Seat had been overshadowed ; and hence
this luniinary, in connection with the Cherubic animals
became a chief object of gentile worship throughout
the world.
The Ox was adored in Egypt, India, and Britain ;
China and Japan ; Persia, Greece, and Peru ;• his
head being considered the representation of the Solar
Orb ; the eyes referring to the Fire, and the horns to
those rays of Light and Glory which are usually pour-
trayed as proceeding from a celestial object; for Fire
and Light were esteemed the general appearances by
which God had always chose to manifest himself to his
creatures. Hence not only Osiris and Isis,t Ammon
and Bacchus,+ not only Alexander and Atila,§ but even
Moses himself, the prophet and messenger of the true
God, is represented with horns or rays of glory en-
circling his head, as an unequivocal indication of his
sacred and supernal character.
As the Ox was the predominating figure in the
Cherubim, so it was the most universal symbol of
idolatry, and was frequently worshipped in a compound
- -- --- ---- ----- - - --- ---- -- - - -- -
'* Plio. Nat. Hist. I. viii. c. 4-6.-Asiat. Research. vol. i. p. 250.-Dav.
Druids. p. 128.-CoupL prref. ad Tab. Chron. p. s.-Krempf. Hist. Jap.
p. 4.18.-Bryant's Anal. vol. ii. p. 4-25.-Nonni Dion.l. i.-Purch. Pilgr.
b. ix. c. 10.
t Vid. Serv. En. 8. ~ Ov. Ep. Saph. Eurip. in Bacch.
§ Brown's Vulg. Err. b. v. c. 9.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IV. 69
·form. It is probable that the fabled bulls with brazen
feet, which breathed fire from their nostrils, and were
the guardians of Jason's golden fleece,• were taken
from the bovine Cherubim. The Ox was an emblem
of the great father or Noah ; and the Ark was called
Ken- Tauros, the stimulator of the Bull.t He was
worshipped with splendid Rites, at that season of the
year particularly when the Sun was in Taurus.
In India, the Bull was held in high veneration ; and
honoured with diurnal worship in conjunction with the
Linga or Phallus, as an united emblem of justice and
prolific power. The Ammonitish idol Moloch was
depicted with the head of a Bull, as was also" the
Egyptian Apis; and the goddess Astarte, as well as
Isis, was represented with the horns of the same ani-
·mal.:t: The Persian Dive or Evil genius Arzshenk,
had a human body with the head of a Bull.§ A Bull
was also the well known symbol of Bacchus; who is
styled in the Orphic Hymns, "the deity with two
horns, having the head of a Bull.''ll The veneration
for this animal was carried to such an extent, that- in
Egypt the blood of a Bull was considered an abomina-
tion; and the Indian idolaters of the present day,
have the greatest aversion, not. 1!-Dmixed with horror,
to the custom of using the flesh of'an ox for food.
The LION was adored in the east and the west, by
* Ovid. :Met. I..vii. . t Bryant. Anal. vol. ii. p. UO.
+Sanch. in Euseb. prrep. evan. I. i. c. 10. ·
§ Richardson's l>issert. on East. Nat. p. 171. II Hymn 29.
Digitized by Coogle
70 LECroRE 1\t,
the Egyptians and the Mexicans as a most powerful
divinity.• The chief Druid in Britain was styled a
Lion ;t whence it waa certain that this animal was an
object of worship with our remote ancestors, because
the High Priest had frequently assigned to him the
title of the deity. The same animal was enblematical
of the Sun in Tartary and Persia ;t the head, sur-
rounded with a glittering mane, being the represent.
tive object of the divine light ; and hence, on the na-
tional banner of Persia, a Lion was emblazoned with
the Sun rising from his back.§
In every country where the Lion was known, he
would be esteemed the lord of· the creation, if not
superior to a created being. His eyes which sparkle
fire; his shaggy mane which encircles the whole coun-
tenance, were likened to the splendid irradiations of
the Deity ; and his strength and firmness, were sym.
bolical of the oppressive power of the Sun, in those
torrid regions where he darts his rays of perpendicular
heat, with resistless e1fulgence on the heads of· his
devout worshippers. The Egyptian astronomers taught
* Diod. Sic. Bib!. 1. i. c. 6. t Gododin. Song, ~ ~ Hesych.
§ " The Sovereigns of Persia have for many centuries preserved as the
peculiar arms of their country, the sign or figure of Sol in the consteDation
Leo; and this device, whieh exhibits a Lion eow:bant and the Sun rising
at his back, has notoply been sculptured upon their palaces, and embroidered
upon their banner( but has been converted into an order, which in the fonn
of gold and F.itver medals, has been given to those who have distinguished
them~w.lves against the enemies of their country." Sir John Malcolm's Hist.
of i'ers.. c. xxv. These modern customs have emanated from the ancien\
superstitions of Persia, in which the Lion bo~ a prominent characta-.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE JV. 71
that the creation of the world took place at the precise
period of time when the Sun rose in Leo ; which sign
was hence esteemed.the peculiar habitation of the Sun;
and this belief gave an additional stimulus to the
veneration which mankind entertained for the king of
animals.•
The EAGLE was sacred to the Sun in many coun-
tries, particularly in some parts of Egypt,t Greece,t
and Persia.§ In our scriptures the king .of Babylon
is termed an eagle.ll It was reputed to have fed Ju-
piter with nectar in the Cretan cave, and was certainly
an emblem of his dominion. With the British Druids
it formed a symbol of their supreme god;~ it was
embroidered on the consecrated standard of the Mexi-
can princes ; •• and the common ensign of the Roman
Legions was a golden eagle. Indeed the peculiar
property which this noble bird possesses of beholding
with impunity the undiminished vigour the Sun's me-
ridian rays, would naturally procure for it an emble-
matical distinction.
The MAN, or idol in human shape, was worshipped
* Mr. Bryant obserYes in reference to this superstition; " as the .chief
increase of the Nile was when the Sun was passing through Leo, the Egyp-
tians made the Lion a type of an inundation. All effusions of water were
specified by ~is charaeteriltie. And from hen~ baa been the CWitorn of
making the water which proceeds from cisterns and reservoirs, as well as
spouts from the roofs of buildings, come through the mouth of a Lion...
Bryant's Plag.tes of Egypt, p. 86, note.
t Diod. Bib!. p. 78. :t Ovid. Metam. 1. x.
II Ezekiel xvii. 3.
§ Montf. Ant. vol. ii. p. 368.
41 Dav. Druids, p. 119. ** Pureh. Pilgr. b. viii. c. 10.
Digitized by Coogle
72 LECTURE IV.
all over the world ; for which custom this reason has
been assigned by Porphyry, when charged with wor-
shipping God under the figure of a man. He allowed
the deity to be invisible, but thought him well repre-
sented in that form ; not because he is like him in
external shape, but because that which is divine is
rational.• But Tenison says " this was not the com-
mon cause, but an inclination to a sensible object,
and an apprehension of human figure as that which
was most excellent, and which belongeth to a king and
governor, under which notion, in the grosser idea of it,
their reverence of earthly potentates had pictured .God
in their heads."t
The confined limits of a single Lecture preclude a.
more extended disquisition on these particular heads.
·Enough, however, has been said to render the conjec-
ture extremely probable, that the worship of these
symbols by heathen nations, had been adopted from a
tradition of the divine presence connected with the
. Cherubim, perverted from its original purpose ; the
visible image being substituted for the supreme but
invisible God, represented in the Shekinah which
overshadowed this glorious symbol. A probability
which is increased by the consideration, that these ani-
mals were not only worshipped separately, but, in imi-
tation of the prototype, they were adored in absolute
union, Clement of Alexandria conjectures that the
* Porpb. in. Euseb. de prrep. evari. I. iii. c. 1. t Ten. Idol. p. 74.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IV. 73
Egyptian Sphynx and other compound hieroglyphics
were borrowed from them ;• and an extraordinary
proof of this derivation is in that famous deity of Or-
pheus, which Damasoius, quoted by Cudworth,t tells
us was a winged Serpent, with the three heads of a
Man, a Bull, and a Lion. This divinity could have
no reference but to the Jewish Cherubim.
I am very much inclined to think that the Lion
Avater of Hindostan, may also be referred to the same
source. !n· this manifestation, a primeval Indian
Monarch, named Hirinakassap, having violated the
commands of God, and cast off his allegiance to that
great being, ·was destroyed by the divinity in the form
of a compound animal, consisting of a Man with the
head of a Lion, from whose mouth issued flames of
devouring fire. The Cherubim which expelled Adam
from Paradise assumed two forms, and wielded a sword
of fire, says the sacred historian, which turned every
way to keep the Tree of Life ;:t: or in other words to
prevent our apostate progenitor from attaining the
privilege of immortality, which would have closed the
avenues to the divine favour, and condemned him to
exist for ever in a state of wickedness and sin. It is,
in fact, probable, that every one of the Indian Avaters
were derived from recollections of traditional accounts
of this glorious symbol of the Deity. The tenth is
* Strom. I. v. t Intel. Syst. b. i. c. 4.. t Gen. iii. ~4..
Digitized by Coogle
74 LECTURE IV.
most certainly a mythological representation of the
second coming of our Saviour Jesus Christ.•
In the celebration of the mysteries, 88 we are told
by Proclus, the candidates beheld many objects of MUL-
TIFORM .sHAPES, which prefigured thejir1t generation
ofthe Godl.t The Persian fire worshippers dedicated
each month to a protecting angel, in whose honour
certain ceremonies were instituted, all of which had a
distinct connection with the Cberubim.t The bull..
man of the Zend Avesta, was represented in the com.
pound form of a. man, a bull, and a horse. And the
Persian Dive Munberas, in his first encounter with
Sohrab the son of Rostam, is depicted with the head
of a hog ; and in the next as a bifrO'TU, one side
resembling the bead of a lion, the other tba.t of a wild
boar.§ Even the Israelites in the wilderness, not con-
tent with the pure and sober worship 88 instituted by
God himself, sighed after the splendid superstitions of
the neighbouring nations,II and it has been conjectured
that they adored the Tabernacle as a compO'IJITIIJ form.
of the Deity; the tabernacle itself being worshipped as
Moloch, the cherubim as Apis, and the Shekinah as
Remphan.
In a word, all the multiform animals which we view
in connection with idolatry, derive their origin from
* Vid. Maur. Hist. Hind.-Asiat. Rea. vol. i. p. 286.
t Wait's Ant. vol. i. p. 108. :1: In Plat. Thol. I. i. c. S.
§ Richardson'• Jlissert. on Eaet. Nat. p. 171. II Amoa v, i8, 26.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTllRE IV. 7!;
the same source. They were misrepresentat~ons of
the dootrines of the mysteries ; in which, legends of
these overshadowers of the Mercy Seat, were certainly
retained. What were the Satyrs, the Centaurs, the
Sphinges, the ChiiiUBne, Garuda., and others ? They
have deformed every system of pagan theology, and
certainly originated from the hallowed, yet misunder..
stood remembrance of these Hebraic Symbols.•
In all the ancient mysteries which attended the
religious practice of every· region in the idolatrous
world, one principal secret consisted of deaertationt
on the form and worship of God, as the best incentive
to the practice of moral virtue. In these Lectures the
component parts of the cherubic symbol formed promi-
nent subjects of disquisition ; perverted indeed and
gradually receding from the truth, as they were con·
veyed by uncertain tradition from the apostate sons of
Noah do\vn to the extirpation of idolatory. The
practice was derived from a similar usage amongst the
faithful worshippers of the true God, who transmitted
the sublime science of Lux; and it has descended to
our times pure and unadulterated. In the Lectures
of Masonry this glorious emblem is copiously illus-
trated, and placed before the imigination, arrayed in
awful splendours, and surrounded with unfading
beauties, as the scriptural representation of the glory
of that great Being,t who is the universal Father of
*Wait's Antiq. vol. i. p. U9. t Ezekiel i. ~8.
Digitized by Coogle
76 LEC'JURE IV.
'mankind, and into whose presence good Masons and
virtuous men, hope equally to be admitted at the final
consummation of all sublunary things.
Confine your attention steadily tothis symbol, which
is the pride and ornament of Masonry, and·you cannot
surely deviate from the practice of pure morality. We
are told that Moses made two Cherubim, and fixed
them permanently to the Mercy Seat, which was the
sacred cover or lid of the Ark of the Covenant ;• and
that Solomon constructed two larger ones, which stood
upright in the Sanctum Sanctorum on each side of
the Ark, and stretched their expanded wings over it,
to improve.the general appearance of the Most Holy
Place, and render the hallowed repository of the Ark
more beautiful and sublime.t Their wings formed a
seat or throne over the Ark, in which God did not
disdain perpetually to reside ; and hence he is said to
dwell between the Cherubim.+ This magnificent idea
is happily expressed by Sternhold, in his version of
the eighteenth Psalm.
The Lord descended from above,
And bow'd the heavens high,
And underneath his feet he cast
The darkness of the sky.
On cherubs and on cherubims,
Full royally he rode,
And on the wings of mighty winds,
Came Hying all abroad.
* Exod. xxv. 18-22. t 1 Kings vi. 23--5!8.
t Psalm lxxx. I. and xcix. I.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IV. 77
Every posture of the Cherubim has a moral refer-
ence which is exceedingly profitable and worthy of our
serious consideration. They hid their faces with their
wings to express an innate dread of the divine majesty
of God. Their wings stretched out denoted a readi-
ness to execute celestial commissions. They ·were
"full of eyes," to denote God's all-seeing providence;
the wheels intersecting each other at right angles,•
expressed the revolutions of God's providence, regular
and uniform, though apparently intricate and compli-
cated. When they moved it was in a direct course, to
represent their steadiness in performing the divine will.
The spirit was in the wheels,t that they might be .
capable of yielding instant obedience. Their faces
placed towards each other, were an emblem of unity
and concord; and they overshadowed the Mercy Seat
with their wings, as a sign of the protection afforded
by the Deity to the invaluable contents of the Ark ;
the chief of which was the Sacred Law of God, written
by inspiration, and deposited here as a place of perfect
security, worthy of such a treasure. This treasure,
we possess, with an inestimable addition, where those
truths are plainly revealed, of which, even the Jews,
favoured as they undoubtedly were in being the
authorized keepers of the Oracles of God, had no
absolute certainty ;-truths, which point the way, not
merely to peace and comfort in the present life, but to
*Ezekiel x. 11. t Ezekiel i. 21, 22.
Digitized by Coogle
78 LBCTURE IV.
eternal happiness in the life to come. This perfect
volume is not now bid in an Ark ;-it lies open on
our pedestal for every body to read ; and is almost
universally disseminated throughout the christian
world. A written revelation 1s a public blessing ;
because it excludes all doubts and fears about the terms
of aalvation ; and is subject to none of the defects of
oral tradition. Immured within the tyled recesses of
the Lodge, we spread forth the leaves of this holy
book with confidence and hope ; and looking on each
other as Brethren cemented by the most endearing ties,
we consider the open Lodge as the abode of peace, and
no unfit emblem, surrounded as we are by every
incentive to virtue, of the celestial mansion of bliss.
We are told from very high authority, and I insist
on it here, because it is peculiarly satisfactory to us as
christians to know and understand, that " it was the
Logos, or Jesus Christ himself, whose glory shone on
the Ark, as appears by the many places of scripture
which speak no otherwise of the Ark than as of the
type of God incarnate. Christ before his incarnation
sitting on the Propitiatory as his Throne, with the Ark
and Law at his feet ; for that holy vessel is in scrip-
ture called his footstool,• seemeth to show himself
beforehand in the Offices of King, and Prophet, and
Priest. As King, whilst he sits on his Golden Throne;
and exhibiteth the Law ; as Prophet, whilst he answer-
* Psalm xcix. S. and cxxxii. 7.-IIIIiah lx. IS.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE IV. 79
eth when consulted from between the Cherubim J and
as Priest, establishing his seat as a Propitiatory or
Mercy Seat."• This is the opinion of Archbishop
Tenison, and it appea.rs to receive the sanction of
scripture ; for the .divine Shekinah vouchsafed to the
prophet Isaiah,t is declared by St. John tO be the
actual glory of Jesus Christ the Saviour of mankind.t
And we must consider further, that the human body
of Jesus Christ is the Ark of the Christian Covenant;
over which the Shekinah appeared in the ca.ve at
Bethlehem, in the form of a supernatural Star in the
East, which hence is placed in the centre ofour Lodges ;
again at his baptism by John the Baptist, as a celestial
Dove surrounded by a shining cloud of glory ; and
again at his transfiguration and ascension, in the
ancient form of a cloud; which at length received
him ; and, overshadowed by this Shekinah, he returned
to his legitimate seat in heaven, there to remain as
our intercessor till the day of judgment, when he shall
again appear in a cloud to pass the final sentence on
all mankind.
Such are the peaceful investigations of .Masonry :-
such are the objects which engage .our attention in
open Lodge. Let those who have no relish for these
intellectual pursuits seek for pleasure and gratification
amidst other scenes, where they fancy happiness may
be found; we, meanwhile, will be satisfied with the
* Ten•.Idol. p. 342. t Isaiah vi. I, i. t John xii. 41.
Digitized by Coogle
80 LECTURE IV.
enjoyments we possess; peace, harmony, and bro-
therly love, joined with the study and practice of
moral virtue ; and employ our leisure in humble at-
tempts to illustrate the attributes and perfections of a
Deity in whom we implicitly believe, and the nature
and reality of those expressive symbols by which his
glory has been manifested to his creatures. And we
will prize our immaculate science, symbolized by the
purity of our clothing, which leads to results that
cannot fail to be highly beneficial to every true and
faithful Brother, if received with fideliiy, and practised
uniformly and conscientiously in every circumstance
and situation of life.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V.
ON THE DELUGE.
« - - - Far the rest above,
Of ghaatly llature, and enormous size,
One fonn aasaults my sight, and chills my blood,
And shakes my frame. Ofone departed world
I aee the mighty ahadKJw: oozy wreath
And dismal sea-weed crown her: o'er her urn
Reclined, she weeps her desolated realms,
And bloated sons, and weeping, prophesies
Another dissolution, soon, in flames." Young.
WE have now arrived by a systematic gradation, at
that terrible event which almost annihilated the human
race ; and though the subject rather belongs to a
collateral Degree than to genuine Masonry; yet as the
Ark of Noah, the Rainbow, and the Dove and Olive
Branch have been introduced amongst our legitimate
emblems, a Lecture on the subject may not be impro-
perly introduced, as the Deluge forms a prominent
feature in all the ancient mysteries ; and a tradition
of this signal judgment was universally prevalent in
every region of the world.
In the concluding period of the antediluvian world,
human wickedness, originating in the apostacy ofCain,
had been increasing for many centuries. New modes
ofoutrage were daily invented, which tended to alienate
G
Digitized by Coogle
82 LECTURE V.
man still farther from original purity, until at length
the world became universally corrupt, and the unlimited
vengeance of God, was poured out on the whole crea-
tion. This judgment had been denounced by a
succession of holy men without producing the desired
effect; and it has been observed, that in the age
immediately preceding the deluge, the wickedness and
presumption of mankind exceeded the impiety and
corruption of any succeeding age. Noah was deputed
to give these sinners a final warning, which, as usual,
they rejected, and made the holy man a bye-word and
a reproach. An Ark was therefore directed to be built
for the preservation of Noah and his house; but the
workmen who constructed this stupendous vessel
perished in the :flood. "While Noah was employed
about the building the wicked rallied him saying, to
what purpose is a vessel made in the open plain at
such a distance from the water ? Others said to him
in the way of ridicule, which has passed into a proverb,
you have made a ship, now therefore bring the water to
it. Others again insulted him, telling him, that after
having practised for a long time the trade of a husband-
man, he was at last reduced to that of a carpenter.
But his answer to them was, I shall have my turn, and
you will learn at your expense, who it is that punishes
the wicked in this world, and reserves chastisements
for them hereafter in another."•
* Calmet, Hist. Die. vol. i. p. 192.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 83
The form of the Ark, like that of a Mason's Lodge,
was an oblong square ; so long, says Calmet, that few
European Churches exceed it. In this Ark were saved
Noah, his three sons and wives; in all eight persons.
Some say that they embarked near the place where
Babylon was afterwards built ; others tell us that they
embarked in the· Indies ; and during the time they
continued in the Ark, they compassed the whole
world.''•
And now the fountains of the great deep were
broken up and the rain descended in overwhelming
torrents. The roaring of the elements, the gushing
of the mighty waters, and the universal confusion of
nature's works struck the inhabitants of the earth with
compunction and horror. But it was too late. What
was the pitiless situation of the mockers and un-
believers, when they saw the waters bursting with
irresistible violence from the caverns of the earth, and
from the fountains of the deep ? What were their
sensations when they beheld the inundating torrents
of rain incessantly pouring from the heavens for the
space of forty days and nights ? With what dismay
must they have been covered, if it be true, as is con-
jectured from the second chapter of Genesis and the
fifth and sixth verses, tha~ there was no rain before
the flood, and that consequently this was the first
instance of the kind they had ever witnessed? An
* .Calmet, vol. i. p. 192.
G2
Digitized by Coogle
84 LECTURE V.
awful display of the tremendous wrath of God upon
obdurate sinners ! " How were they amazed at the
strangeness of Noah's preservation, so far beyond all
that they looked for. Repenting and groaning for
anguish of spirit, they said within themselves, this was ·
he whom we had sometime in derision, and a proverb
of reproach. We, fools, accounted his life madness,
and his end to be without honour. How is he
numbered among the children of God, and his lot is
among the saints !"•
It is quite unnecessary that I should enlarge on a
subject so well known. Suffice it to say, that when
the waters had subsided, the Ark rested on Ararat, a
high three peaked mountain in Armenia, and Noah
with his family descended into the open plain to supply
the wants of nature, and to re-people the renovated
world. The precise time of Noah's egress from the
Ark, has been a subject ofcontroversy with the learned;
but it appears now to be generally understood that
this event happened early in the month of May, pro-
bably on May Day, because commem<lrative dilu~an
rites were amiually celebrated on that day, by almost
every ancient nation. That learned antiquary and
mythologist, Mr. Faber, pronounces this to have been
the day of Noah's deliverance. "May Eve running
into May Day, was very generally adopted as the
season of the Great Father's principal festival.; and
* Wisd. v. 3, 4-, 5.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 85
India, Babylonia, Britain, and Ireland have agreed in
celebrating at that time the orgies of their chiefdivinity.
The reason of this choice I take to have been that
Noah then quitted the Ark."• And a great naturalist,
Woodward, declarest " among all the remains of the
antediluVian world, I have found such a u.niformity
and general consent, that I was able to discover at what
time of the year it was that the deluge began. Th&
whole tenor of these bodies, thus preserved, clearly
pointing forth the month of May."t I shall not trouble·-
you with an abstract of the different and contradictory
theories, which philosophers have advanced, to account
for the geological alterations which the earth sustained
at that calamitous period, because the subject does not
properly come within my design ; but I shall take the
account of the deluge precisely as it is related by
Moses ; and enquire in what manner it has been
preserved or corrupted in the different mysteries of the
idolatrous world.
In this enquiry, wheresoever we find a system of
mysterious initiation there we are sure to find also a
tradition of the deluge, often obscure indeed, and not
unfrequently fantastical, but possessing sufficient marks
of a common original~ to satisfy the most sceptical
mind, that the deluge of Noah, and no other event, is
intended to be perpetuated amidst the adventitious
* Fab. Pag. Idol. b. v. c. 6. s. 8.
1 Miln. Physico-Theological Lect. apud Hale's Chrou. vol. i. p. 337.
Digitized by Coogle
86 IJECTURB V.
embellishments which the genius or ignorance of a
people may have thrown around it.
The events which attended this great convulsion of
nature, were engrafted by designing men, on the pure
system which was practised by the pious patriarchs of
the antediluvian world ; and constituted the chief line
of distinction between ancient Masonry, and the sur-
reptitious mysteries which were formed on its model
and enjoyed the triumph of superior veneration for
many succeeding centuries. The former directed its
undivided attention to the One invisible God, the
Creator and Governor of the world, including the
rites of worship offered to that omnipotent Being,
according to principles instituted by himself; while
the latter, at the greatest extent of its departure from
the truth, acknowledged a multiplicity of deities, the
chief of which were indeed capable of a resolution into
Jhe patriarch Noah,• as an incarnation of the divinity,
and his three sons as a triplication of himself, who
were therefore elevated into objects of divine worship,
in contempt and consequent rejection of the true and
* Almost all the deities of heathen nations have been deduced by late
mythologists to Noah or the Sun, and his symbolical consort the Ark or
Moon, for "when eolonies made any where a settlement, they engrafted
&heir antecedent history upon the subsequent events of the place. And as
in thoae days they could carry up the genealogy of their princes to the very
source of all, it will be found, that, under whatever title he may come, the
first king in every eountry was Noah. For as he was mentioned first in
the genealogy of their princes, he was in after times looked upon as a real
monarch ; and represented as a great traveller, a mighty conqueror, and
sovereign of the whole carth."-Preface to Bryant'aAnalyai8.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 87
only God. Hence, in most nations, the superior deities
were represented as seated on a lotos leaf, as upon a
throne consecrated by its symbolical reference to the
Ark, which bore them safely on the surface of the
troubled waters, while the rest of mankind were in-
volved in one common destruction. And the reasons
which were deemed ofsufficient weight to decree divine
honours to Noah, were at least, plausible and very
attractive~ God had always been represented as the
Great Father of the human race. Noah was esteemed,
and actually was, according to the flesh, · the great
father of mankind. God is said to have hovered over
the face of the waters at the creation; and Noah ac-
tually floated on the face of the waters at the deluge,
which ·was universally accounted a Lew creation. The
Lord Jehovah was to be the seed of woman and the
produce of a pure virgin; and Noah, the universal
iather, was at once the seed of a woman, and born of
the virgin Ark, without the intervention of any human
creature. Hence Noah was elevated into an object of
idolatrous worship, and became the chief deity of the
gentile world.
The mysteries were, most of them, conservators of
this tradition ; for their great founders, the Cabiri; could
not carry their votaries beyond the period of the deluge,
without involving a question, which, in those early
ages, wou!d probably have been fatal to their own
private views. And thus, though they actually taught
the doctrine of an endless succession of worlds, of which
Digitized by Coogle
88 LECTURE V.
the Phoonix was made a significant emblem, yet the
deluge was pronounced the creation of the present
world, and as such it was described and perpetuated
in the diluvian mysteries. And not only were the
Deluge, the Ark, and the Ogdoad the main objects of
these secret celebrations; but they also constituted the
chief reference in all the astronomical as well as reli-
gious speculations of the whole heathen world. The
learned and elaborate Bryant tells us, that " the Ark
was looked on as a kind of Temple, a place of residence
of the Deity, in the compass of Eight Persons."• And
again, "The Egyptians did, in reality, make the
history of the Ogdoas, the chief subject ofthe 1phere.
They esteemed the Ark an emblem of the system of
the heavens. And when they began to distinguish
the stars in the firmament, and to reduce them to
particular constellations, ihere is reason to think,
that most of the asterisms were formed with the like
reference."t Hence we find that as the lower apart-
ments of the Tower of Babel were dedicated to the
purpose of initiation into the mysteries, so the upper-
most tier were appropriated solely to astronomical
researches; for the first arrangement of the fixed stars
into constellations, was effected before the dispersion of
our brethren from the plains of Shinar ; and Nimrod
was placed in the heavens under the name of Orion.
The consequences of an open renunciatio~ of the
• Anal. vol. ii. p. 233. t Anal. vol. il. p. i4.4..
Digitized by Coogle
LBCTURE V. 89
Deity, which was the probable cause of the general
deluge, were however, concealed by the crafty founders
of idolatry, under the same veil which obscured the
Great First Cause ; and every·thing relating to that
event, though transmitted with unequivocal exactness,
was studiously enveloped in a web ofmystery, calculated
tolead the enquirer astray. Hence the jargon about
Deucalion, the Atlantians, Typhon and Osiris, the
Argonauts, and all the various fables with which
different nations have been equally amused and misled.
The truth was concealed with great art under imposing
ceremonies and fearful denunciations. Solemn oaths
were administered to .restrain the enquiry within
certain prescribed limits; and the dictatorial hier-
ophant, invested with uncontrollable authority, could
draw the line with his magic wand, and say, even to
the initiated, " this is the boundary of your knowledge;
thus far shall ye come, and no farther." And this
accounts for the comparative ignorance of the adept
himself ; for the ineffable secrets were entrusted to
none but kings and priests ; and were conveyed, almost
solely, by oral communication. Thus an extraordinary
ceremony, referring to the deluge, was used in the
initiations, which shows how mysteriously that event
was preserved and transmitted. The violent death of
some unhappy individual was here celebrated, whose
body they affected to have lost ; and much time was
expended and many ceremonies used in the search;
even the aspirant himself was made figuratively to die
Digitized by Coogle
90 LECTURE V.
and to descend into the infernal regions, for the purpose
of ascertaining the fate of him, whose disappearance
they ceased not to deplore. This part of the ceremony
was performed in darkness; and was accompanied with
loud and ceaseless wailings and lamentations. The
body at length being found, the aspirant was passed
through the regenerating medium, and thus was said
to be raised from the dead and born again. 'rhis was
the commencement of joy and gladness; and the
initiated was invested with his symbols amidst universal
rejoicing and acclamation.
Such is the pattern on which all the mysteries were
formed ; and it may be needless to repeat that the
ceremony bears an evident reference, amongst other
remarkable occurrences, to the descent of Noah into
the darkness of the Ark, which was his emblematical
Coffin,• where he was figuratively said to have been in a
state resembling death ;t and his egress thence con-
sidered as a new birth, and a restoration to the blessings
• Or Hell, according to the Scandinavian system; for "Helle signifies
sepulchrurn. It is derived from Helan, to cover or conceal, and therefore
properly expresses the Grave, that common covering or concealment of
. mankind.-(Farmer'B WorBhip of Human Spirits, p. 866, note n.) Ac-
cording to Faber, (Pag. Idol. vol. i. p. 37'7.) Hell was the invisible world of
departed spirits, whether good or bad; and in this sense corresponded
equally with the Hela of the Goths, and the El-ysium of classical antiquity.
t A passage of an ancient writer, preserved by Stobams, contains the
following remarkable words. " The mind is affected in DEATH, just as h
is in the INITIATION into the mysteries. And word answers to word, as well
as thing to thing j for 'TE:\.cvTav is, TO DIE j and 7£:\.£tcr(Jat, TO BE INITIATED,"
Warb. Div. Leg. b. ii. s. 4o.
Digitized by Coogle
Lli:CTURE V. 91
of life and liberty. The door of the ark represented
the medium of regeneration, and the passage of Noah
through it into the renewed world, was imitated in the
initiations by passing the candidate through certain
ambrosire petrre or consecrated stones, which were
supposed to convey a title to the favour of the godsp
and an assurance of their continual protection.
I now proceed to notice a few traditions which have
been preserved in the mysteries of different nations ;
and transmitted, in some instances, down to the present
time. In the prosecution of this part of the subjec4
I shall not detain you by reciting the Egyptian legend
of Osiris taking refuge in an Ark to escape the rage
of Typhon, (the sea) which overflowed his dominions;
or the Greek fable of Deucalion ; or the Chaldean
account·of the preservation of Xisuthrus, which are all
too well known to need repetition. I shall rather
choose to repeat a few of the most rare and curious
traditions which we find recorded concerning this signal
judgment.
The Brahmins of India, preserved an account of the
deluge with some degree of accuracy; and united with
it a description of the primitive peace and happiness
of a former world. Men, say they, in the very first
ages enjoyed full perfection, and conversed familiarly
with the gods. Piety, truth, and every other virtue
:Hourished amongst them uncontaminated by the ma-
lignant influence of any unholy passion. The ground
produced its fruits spontaneously, .and men were not
constrained by the wants of nature, to endure the pains
Digitized by Coogle
92 LECTURE V.
and privations, necessarily resulting from toil and
labour. This state of universal repose, at length
produced discontent, which was soon followed by active
rebellion, and the commission ofevery species of crime.
Such a state of depravity elicited the summary ven-
geance ofthe offended gods. The ground was deprived
of a large portion of its fecundity, and men were con-
demned to labour in order to supply their increasing
necessities. The wickedness of mankind at length
rendered their utter destruction inevitable. To purify
the earth from the pollutions thus heaped upon it, the
two regenerating elements fire and water were used.
First a torrent of fire was sent upon the earth, which
melted all mineral and vegetable matter, and consumed
every thing in its progress. Then followed a deluge
of water, which covered the whole face of the earth,
that its pristine purity might. be restored by a general
ablution. During the prevalence of the waters, the
god Vishnu stretched at length, slept beneath the sur-
face on the bosom of Devi, who for that purpose had
assumed the shape of a monstrous serpent, whosefolds
were coiled up in theform f!f a boat. A lotos plan$
issued from his navel, and ascending to the surface,
spread its leaves and flowers on the expanse, and pro-
duced the god Brahma; who, seated in state upon its
calix, claimed to be the first born of men and gods.•
·. • At the death of Brahma, says Moor, (Hind. Panth. p. 103,) the world
is deluged with water, and Vishnu places himself on the lotos as a little
child with the toe of his right foot in hjs mouth, as an emblem of eternity.
When the deluge is about to subside, a lotos springs from his navel as
before, from which Brahma is reborn.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 93
When the waters had subsided, the navicular Serpent
Devi was grounded on Mount Meru ; Vishnu was
seen gloriously arrayed as the Rainbow; and Devi
flew away in the form of a Dove.•
You will smile, when I relate the tradition, as it
was preserved in China; but I have good authority to
bear me out, and will therefore hazard the conse- ·
quences ofexcitingyour mirth. The inhabitants of the
island Maurigasima, says the legend, becoming en-
riched by successful traffic, grew irreligious, neglected
the rites of divine worship, and held the gods in iOVe-
reign contempt. These slighted beings therefore to
revenge themselves on such an impious race, revealed
to the king, who was a just and virtuous monarch,
that whenever he should observe the faces of the two
idols, which stood before the temple to turn red, be
should immediately, with all his family and substance
escape from the island, to avoid the impending de-
struction of its inhabitants. This vision be made
known to his subjects, that they might profit by the
.communication. But they ridiculed the good king ;
and a short time afterwards, one of them, in the deli-
rium of unbellef, daubed the faces of these idols with
red paint. The king beholding the portent, lost no
time in escaping from the devoted island with his family
and friends, amidst the ridicule of all who were con-
* Vid. Maur. Ind. Antiq.-Moor's Hind. Panth.-Fab. Pag. ldol-
W'Uf. on Mt. Cauc, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
-- 94 LECTURE V.
cemed in the imposition. No sooner however was he
departed, than the island was swallowed up by the
waters, and all the inhabitants were droWned. The
king arrived ·safe in China, where his escape is still
commemorated by an annual festival.•
In the remotest times, before the Moon accompanied
the earth, according to the mythology of the Muysca
or Mozca Indians, the inhabitants of the plain of
Bogota lived like barbarians, naked, without agricul-
ture, without any form of laws or worship. Suddenly
appeared among them an old man, who came from the
plains situate on the east 'of the Cordillera ofChingasa,
and who appeared to be of a race unlike that of the na-
tives, having a long and bushybeard. He was known by
three distinct appellations, Bochica, Nemquetheba, and
Zuhe. This old man, instructed men how to clothe
themselves, build huts, till the ground, and form them-
selves into communities. He brought with him a
woman, to whom also tradition gives three names, Chia,
Yubecayguaya, and Huythaca. This woman, extremely
beautiful, and no less malignant, thwarted every enter.
prise of her husband for the happiness of mankind.
By her skill in magic, she swelled the river of Funzha
and inundated the valley of Bogota. The greater part
of the inhabitants perished in this deluge ; a few only
found refuge on the summits of the neighbouring
mountains. The old man, in anger, drove the beau-
* Kempfer's Japan, Append. p. 13.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 95
tiful Huythaca far from the earth, and she became the
Moon, which began from that epocha to enlighten our
planet during the night. Bochica, moved with com-
passion for those who were dispersed over the moun-
tains, broke with his powerful arm the rocks that
enclosed the valley, on the side of Canoas and Tequen-
dama. By this outlet he drained the waters of the
lake of Bogota; he built towns, introduced the worship
of the Sun, named two chiefs, between whom he divided
the civil and ecclesiastical authority, and then withdrew
himself, under the name of Idacanzas, into the holy
valley of Iraca, near Tunja, where he lived in the
exercise of the most austere penitence for the space
of two thousand years.•
The Indians of Cholula have a similiar tradition,
but they extend it to the general dispersion of mankind•.
All those who did not perish in the inundation, say
they, were transformed into fishes, save seven, who fled
into caverns. When the waters subsided, one of these
called Xelhua, surnamed the architect, went to Cho-
lollan ; where, as a memorial of the mountain Tlaloc,
which had served for an asylum to himself and his six
brethren, he built an artificial hill in form of a pyra-
mid. He ordered bricks to be made in the province of
Tlamanalco, at the foot of the Sierra of Cocotl, and to
convey them to Cholula, he placed a file of men, who
passed them from hand to hand. The gods beheld
with wrath this edifice, the top of which was to reach
* Humboldt's Researches in America, vol. i. p. a.
Digitized by Coogle
96 LPCI'URE V.
the clouds. Irritated at the daring attempt of Xelhua,
they hurled fire on the pyramid. Numbers of the
workmen perished ~ the work was discontinued, and
the monument was afterwards dedicated to Quetzalcotl,
the god of the air.•
The Savages ofSouth America, believed that a priest
called Tezpi, was saved from a general inundation, by
retiring with his wife and children into a box made of
wood, in which he had also gathered together a many
animals, and excellent seeds of all sorts; and that after
the retreat of the waters he let :Hy a bird called Aura,
which returned not back ; and successively several
others which also came not back ; but that the least
of those birds, that which the Indians esteemed the
most, soon appeared again with the branch ~fa tree in
·its mouth.t These accounts, preserved by men in
almost a savage state ; in a quarter of the globe un-
known in ancient times, and certainly debarred by
nature from any communication with the inhabitants
of the eastern continent, approximate very nearly to
those of Moses.
Enquire we now what was the belief of the British
Druids in this particular; for, on every subject, I
studiously bring before your notice the creed and
practice ofour ancestors,t because their opinions cannot
fail to be peculiarly interesting.
*Mexican MS. in the Vatican.-Humb. Resear. in America.
t Howard's Thoughts on the Structure of the Globe, p. 120.
;: The ancient Scandinavians taught that the world was produced from
the breath of the giant Ymer; that a man and a woman proceeded from
Digitized by Coogle
~-_...!
LECTURE V-
. 91
In th~ mysteries of Britain, a tradition of the deluge
was undoubtedly preserved, perverted indeed and lo-
calized like those of other nations, but .bearing cha-
racteristic marks of the same event. In the time of
the great god Hu, mankind were involved in an uni-
versal profligacy of manners. A communication was
therefore made from heaven that the corruptions of
the world should be purified by fire and water ; that
the Lake J..lion should burst, and overflowing its banks,
the torrent of water, with irresistible violence, should
deluge the land, and destroy all its inhabitants. In
consequence of this revelation, a vessel was constructed
without sails, in which were preserved a male and fe-
male of every species of animals, and also a man and
a woman named Dwivan and Dwyvach. When these
were safely enclosed within the womb of the vessel; a
pestilential wind arose, replete with poisonous ingre-
dients, which spread devastation and death throughout
the land. Then followed a fiery deluge, which melted
the rocks, and split the earth asunder. After this the
Lake Llion burst forth,• inundated the earth, and de-
stroyed the whole creation of men and animals, except
his side during his sleep ; that a deluge afterwards destroyed all mankind
except one family, who succeeded in keeping a boat floating on the surface
of the waters; and that the world was repeopled by the descendants of this
family. The Deity was represented as being invisible, and residing in the
lonely solitude of sequestered forests; that he punished the sins of men by
divers plagues; but that his anger might be appesse<l by prayer and
repentance. .
* Dav. Celt. Res. p. 157.
u
Digitized by Coogle
98 LECTURE V.
the favoured few who had sought protection in the
sacred vessel. And thus the world was purified by
fire and water from the pollutions which the sins of
men had accumulated upon it. When the destruction
was complete, the Avanc or Beaver, a symbo1 of the
floating Ark, was drawn to land by the oxen of Hu
Gadarn; Gwidion (the British Mercury) formed the
Rainbow, as a fair attendant on the Sun; and an as-
surance was given to the man and woman, by whom
the world was to be repeopled, that the Lake should
burst no more.•
In all these several legends, we have sufficient traits
of similarity to enable us to detect their origin in the
deluge of Noah. The bursting of the Lake evidently
refers to the true account contained in the seventh
chapter of Genesis, where it is said that the fountains
ctf the great deep were broken up. And this was a
much more rational belief than was entertained by some
other nations. In the Hindoo mythology, the disrup-
tion is referred to the act of quitting the Ark after the
~ waters had subsided. The body of Sita, the wife of
Maha Deva is said to have burst, and the hero gods,
or Noah and his sons are violently thrown from her
womb.t In the parallel superstition of Scandinavia,
the giant Ymer is represented as slain, and t'b.e blood
bursting from the wound, formed a deluge which
drowned all the families of the giants, except one who
- - - - - -- - ----·-- - --·
* Dav. Druids, p. 95. t Asiat. Research.' vol. vi. p. 4.77.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 99
saved himself in his bark.• And in Egypt the "burst-
ing'' was applied to an Egg, broken by Typhon during
his contest with Osiris. But the bursting of a lake
was the most prevalent belief.
In tracing the mysterious institutions of different
nations, we are surprised with a wonderful variety of
fables, all bearing a reference to this same transaction.
Thus in one system the deity is said to have remained
for a specific period in the belly of a fish ; in another
to have sailed over the sea in a golden cup; in a third
to have been enthroned on the broad leaf of the lotos.
Again, he was believed to have been saved from drown-
ing by a princess, who humanely used for that purpose,
a rope made of her own hair.; and many other tra-
ditions ofa similar nature were taught, equally alluding
to the salvation of Noah.t And, whether the deity
were fabled to have been preserved from the effects of
a general destruction in a vessel without sails, on the
back of a crocodile, in a navel, in a cup, upon a mare,
by a dove, or by a rainbow ;-whether be were said to
be hom from a cavern, a cloud, or a door ; hewn out
of a rock, produced from the side of a virgin without
..
the co-operation of a father, from an egg, a cow, or the
moon, the reference is undoubtedly the same. All
these legends owe their origin to Noah and the Ark;
* Voluspa.
t Asiat. Research. vol. vi. p. 479.-·Apollod. Bib!. I. ii. c. S.-Jambl. de
Mysls. 7. ·
Digitized by Coogle
]00 LECTURE V.
for. the foundation of every known system of idolatry
was the worship of the Great Father and the Great
Mother, symbolized by the sun and moon.•
But the great father and mother were often con-
founded, and made to represent the same person ; for
the deity, in all the countries which practised an idola,..
trous worship, was considered as possessing both sexes
in common.t This being the case, the worship of the
great father was probably introduced with some refer-
ence to the first prophecy of the Messiah, for Noah
was considered an incarnation of the divinity. And
there is nothing very repugnant to the principles of
sound analogy in the ultimate reference to the Sun,
Moon, ~d Planets, which soon became objects of divine
worship. Zvery principle of false religion rested on
some foundation of truth, either direct or implied; and
the worship of the host of heaven might be derived
from the highly figurative language by which the true
God was usually described by the early patriarchs.
Some remarkable specimens of this style are found in
our sacred writings. Baalam describes him under the
title of A STAR;:!: David calls him A suN;§ and so does
Malachi.!! If then Noah, or the Great Father was
worshipped as the Sun, his consort and the rest of the
* Fragm. Stesich. in Fab. Cab. c. vii.-Asiat. Research. vol. vi. p. 521.-
Hyg. Fab. G2.-Just. Mart. dial. cum Tryph. p. 168, &c.
t Cudw. Int. Syst.l. i. c. 4.-0rdin. of Menu. Sir W. Jones's Works,
vol. iii. p. 70.
+Numb. xxiv. 17. §Psalm lxxxiv. 11. I! Mal. iv. 2.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 101
Ogdoad would be assimilated with the Seven Planets,
of which the Moon was the chief.
Not a few of these nations unite in blending the
Creation and Deluge so il'ltimately, that the fable will
aptly apply to either event ; and it is probable that
from this confusion has arisen the various applications
which have been emblematically made to the mundane
Egg,• which, as an universal symbol, is another great
and unerring testimony to the fact of a common origi-
nation. The figurative meaning of this expressive
emblem may be traced to the creation of the world ;
for the Spirit of God is truly represented at that period
as hovering over the face of the waters, .in the,same
manner as a bird broods or flutters over her eggs; an
idea which is most beautifully expressed by Milton.
"-------Taou---
-----with mighty wings outspread,
Dove-like sat'st brooding o'er the vast abysa,
And mad'st it pregnant."t
This truth was conveyed through the antediluvian
world, and introduced by Noah and his family amongst
the new race of men who peopled the earth after the
* The egg which contains the rudiments of life, and was hence esteemed
no unimportant symbol of the resurrection, was no other than the Ark, and
the reference in the text corresponds exactly with the belief of all nations.
Dionusus was fabled by the Greeks to be born from an egg, ( Orph. Hymn
v.) and he and Noah were the same person; therefore the birth of Dionu-
sus, or Brahma, or any other hero god from an Egg, was nothing more than
the egress of Noah from the Ark.-Vid. Fab. Pug. Idol. b. i. c. 4.
t Paradise Lost, b. i. I. 20.
o,g,tized by Coogle
102 LECTURE V.
flood, amongst whom the Egg soon became (P. significant
and universal symbol. Thus in the Ordinances of
Menu, the origin of all things is ascribed to an Egg.
" He (the Creator) having willed to produce various
beings from his own divine substance; first, with a
thought created the waters, and placed in them a pro-
ductive seed; that seed became an Egg, as bright as
gold, blazing like the luminary with a thousand beams;
and in that Egg he was born himself, in the form of
Brahma, the great forefather of aU spirits."• In China
it is believed that Puoncu, the first man, was born out
l!fan Egg. The heavens were formed from the shell,
the atmosphere from the white, and the earth from the
yolk.
In the Orphic Mysteries, the doctrine was pro-
mulgated that the sun was produced from an Egg,
which, floating on the ocean was tossed about by the
waves, until he burst forth in full splendour, endowed
with power to triplicate himself by his own unassisted
energies. Here is a direct reference to Noah and .his
three sons ; as well as to the three appearances of the
Sun ; in his rising, southing, and setting. In the
Hymns attributed to Orpheus, at one time Venus, the
universal parent of gods and men, is said to have
been born from an Egg ;t and at another Cupid is
produced from the same Symbol.t In both these
instances, the Egg represents the Ark of Noah, which,
*Sir W. Jones's Worlts, vol. iii.J'· 66. t Hymn 2. +Hymns.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. l03
while floating on the abyss, contained every living
creature, and was in e:ffect, a world in itself. And
this reference. was not attended with any violent or
improbable stretch of conjecture, for it was a tenet
even to the Jewish creed that the earth was founded on
the floods,• and as it was known to the gentile world
that the Ark had floated on the waters of the deluge,
the Earth and the Ark were frequently mistaken for
each other, and the Egg was a symbol common to
both. To corroborate this explanation; in one system,
Cupid, thus said to be born of an Egg, is represented
as seated on a Rainbow; and in another, the Dove,
the bird of Venus, is seated on an Egg.t
Thus it appears that with the migrating descendants
of Noah, the Egg had an undoubted referenct:l to the
Ark ; and in this acceptation it bore a prominent
feature in all .the diluvian mysteries ; for the Ark
when floating on the waters was a world in miniature;
as it not only contained all living creatures, but was
the sole visible substance remaining of the terrestrial
creation. Hence, if Brahma, or Bacchus, or the
corresponding god of any other nation was fabled to
be born of an Egg, the symbol applied to the Ark of
Noah. In truth, the Egg was the foundation of all
the symbolical machinery of idolatry. The world was
formed from an Egg ; it was subsequontly <Wstroyed ;
and as destruction was considered but as a prelude to
*Psalm xxiv. 2. t Ampd.c. 2.
Digitized by Coogle
104 LECTURB V.
reproduction, the same symbol was again resorted to as.
an emblem of a new creation. For it was an universal
belief, that at the conclusion of certain stated periods,
the world was to be destroyed either by fire or water,
or both ; that the same progenitors appeared on the
stage in each successive creation ; and that the same
race of men, were re-born and acted the same parts on
the great theatre of the world, as they had before done
in a former state.• And from this belief doubtless
originated the doctrine of the Metempsychosis.
It remains that I elucidate the Symbols attached to
this subject ; which will bring the whole matter to a
conclusion. These are the Ark and Anchor; the
Dove and Olive Branch; and the Rainbow.
The Ark and Anchorare emblems of a well grounded
hope and a well spent life. They are emblematical of
that divine Ark which triumphantly bears us over this
tempestuous sea of troubles ; and that Anchor which
shall safely moor us in a peaceful harbour, where the
wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.t
The Dove with an Olive Branch in its mouth is an
emblem of peace, and in connection with the Rainbow,
points out to desponding mortals that divine justice is
satisfied, and mercy extends her golden sceptre to a
guilty world. The Dove, when liberated by Noah,
brought back iB. its mouth, say the Jewish Rabbins, a
Branch of Olive plucked from the Groves of Eden~
* Desatir. Book of Abad. t Star in the East, p. 135.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE V. 105
near which the Ark most probably rested. Thus the
Dove and Olive Branch became a permanent symbol
of peace ; and implied the removal of a calamity and
the substitution of a benefit. In remembrance of this
wonderful escape, the token of union on the plains of
Shinar, was, a broad Banner, on which a Dove bearing
the Branch of Olive in its mouth, encircled by a
Rainbow, were curiously embroidered. Dr. Owen, in
his natural history of Serpents,• says that "Semiramis,
~ing conquered by Staurobates, antiquity feigned she
was changed by the gods into a Dove, the bird of
Venus, which is the reason why the Dove was wor-
shipped by the Babylonians, and wh!J the!J gave it
in their Ensign." This is erroneous, for the banner
doubtless proceeded from a recollection of the benefits
derived from Noah's Dove; and it was actually used
by Semiramis herself before and during her unfortunate
expedition into India ; for the Dove was the favourite
bird of this empress, and hence she was figuratively
said to have been nourished in her infancy by doves in .
the wilderness.t
This bird being universally held in high veneration,
was said to have conveyed the Mysteries to many
different nations. From the information which it gave
to Noah while he was confined within the gloomy
recesses of the ark, it was accounted an interpreter of
the Divine will; and hence the priests and prophets of
idolatry were frequently styled doves.
* p. 3. c. vi. t Diod. Sic. Bibl. I. ii. c. I.
Digitized by Coogle
106 Lr.cTURE V.
The Rainbow was an emblem common to every
species of religious mystery ; and was probably derived
from an old arkite tradition, that the divinity was
clothed in a Rainbow. For thus is he represented by
Ezekiel the prophet. " As the appearance of the bow'
that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the
appearance of the brightness round about. This was
the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the
Lord."• St. John saw in a vision, the throne of God
encompassed by a rainbow.t A Rainbow was, in fact,
the usual emblem of a diVine Saviour throughout the
world. Some christians, " from the irradiation of the
sun upon a cloud, apprehend the mystery of the Sun
of Righteousness in the obscurity of flesh ;-by the
colours green and red, the two destructions of the
world by water and fire; or by the colour of blood
and water, the mysteries of baptism, and the holy
eucharist."+
In India the Rainbow was an emblem of peace, and
in the Third Avater of Vishnu, it is .represented as
issuing from the troubled waters of the deluge. It
was esteemed the principal instrument used tD compose
the agitation of the elements, which produced and
attended that awful event. In the British mysteries it
was an emblem of protection; figuratively said tD
surround the aspirant, when delivered from his con-
finement iJI the Pastos or Ark ; and hence he 'was
called the offspring of the Rainbow. The Bards
- ----
- -- - ------ - ------- - - - - -
·lt Ezekiel i. 28. t Rev. iv. 3. t Brown'~ Vul. Err. b. vii. c. 4..
Digitized by Coogle
LECTlJRE V. 107
frequently introduced this symbol, which is compared
to "a stream of light, which scares away Violence from
the earth, and causes the bane of its former state round
the circle of the world to subside."•
I shall conclude with a few practical comments
on the awful event which has formed the subject of
this Lecture. And do not imagine that I am deviat-
ing from the pure principles of our Order, when I
· endeavour to apply the truths inculcated by Free-
masonry to a higher object than present felicity, for
the connection between Masonry and Religion is
absolute, and cannot be destroyed. Masonry con-
tributes to p,roduce the social happiness of mankind in
this world by the practice of moral virtue. Religion
gives us happiness in a future state, emanating partly
from the same cause, but rendered perfect by the
atonement of Christ. Hence Masonry must be con-
sidered as the handmaid of Religion, because the
practice of moral virtue, though it cannot absolutely
save, is an essential condition of salvation. With this
illustration in view, I shall endeavour to incite you to
christian morality, that the peace you derive from
your Masonic pursuits, may be contemplated by the
practice of religion, and produce its final and lasting
reward at the resurrection of the dead.
You have seen how the whole world was destroyed,
and the race of men almost exterminated for a rejection
* Chair of Ceridwen.
o,g,tized by Coogle
108 LECTURE V.
of the very morality which Masonry recommends.
Divine Revelation informs you that it shall undergo
a second destruction for the same cause ; when a
different agent shall be employed to consume and burn
up this earth with all that it contains. Do not then
like the profane antediluvians, scoff at the terms of
salvation, and say, the threatened punishment will
never be inflicted. Do not, like them say, we will eat,
drink, and be merry, and all will yet be well ; for you
may be assured that nothing but practical righteous-
ness founded on faith in the atoning Mediator, can
bear you up in that day when the ripened iniquities
of men shall bring on the long suspended deluge of
fire, which shall drown the wicked in everlasting de.
struction. The Ark in which you and all mankind
must be saved from this fiery purgation is inscribed
with three important words, REPENTANCE, FAITH, and
OBEDIENCE, which like a brilliant Rainbow surround
and overshadow the vehicle of your preservation ; and
with an efficacy more significant than the Dove and
Olive Branch, proclaim your everlasting peace.
Digitized by Coogle
109
· LECTURE VI.
..
ON THE MYSTERIOUS DARKNESS OF THE THIRD DEGREE.
" The pale beam struggled through the shade
That black'd the cavern's womb;
And in the deepest nook betray'd,
An altar and a tomb.
Around the tomb in mystic lore,
'Vere fonns of various mien ;
And efts, and foul-wing'd serpents, bore
The altar's base obscene."
Mickle.
BY the dispensations of an All-·wise Providence it is
ordained, that a state of Darkness resembling death,
shall precede the attainment of all the different degrees
of perfection. Thus the dense vacuum of chaos intro-
duced the formation of the world as it came from the
hand of its Maker pure and perfect. Thus the whole
creation annually sinks into itself; the trees are stripped
of their leafy covering, the waters are locked up in the
frosts of winter, and nature seems consigned to the
embraces of darkness and death. But this dreary
pause is only a fit preparation for the revival of the
new year, when the earth again displays her charms,
and cheers us··with all th~ animation and glory o~ a
revived existence. Thus also man, the nobler work of
Digitized by Coogle
110 LBCTUBB VI.
the Deity, is subject every day to an oblivion of sense
and reflection, which, however, serves but to invigorate
his faculties, and restore to reason all its energy and
force. And thus, even death itself, though terrible in
prospect, is but the prelude to our ,restoration in a.
more improvedt state, when eternity shall burst upon
us in full effulgence, and all the glories of absolute
perfection encircle us for ever.
In like manner the emblematical darkness of Ma-
sonry is but the precursor of superior illumination ;
and hence our science is aptly denominated Lux or·
Light, because it removes the mists of error and pre-
judice from the understanding, and leaves the soul
open to impressions which awaken all the energies of
Faith, and Hope, and Charity. This Light is partly
communicated by the assistance of hieroglyphical em-
blems; for Masonry, correctly defined, is "a beautiful
system of morality, veiled in allegory and illustrated
by symbols." Thus if we wish to recommend justice
and morality, we point to the Square, which is the
emblem of these virtues; if equality be our theme, the
Level is displayed ; if integrity, the Plumb. Do we
wish to illustrate oar respective duties to God and
man, the 'Three Great Lights are on the Pedestal,
and are easily brought before the active Mason's view;
and the Three Lesser Lights point out the excellent
scheme of government adopted by our ~cient brethren,
and still practised in our Lodges. Do we enlarge
upon a life well spent in acts of piety and devotion, the
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Vl~ Ill
Perfect Ashler is the elucidating emblem; if we refer
to the comfort and perfection of God's revealed wordf
it is done through the medium of the Tracing Board;
if the pure and perfect road to Heaven be the subject
of our Lect~, we have a Ladder composed of staves
or rounds innumerable, each pointing out some m()ral
or theological virtue ; and even when elevating our
thoughts to the Deity himself, our eyes involuntarily
rest on the Glory in the Centre; then, with hearts
overfiowing with gratitude and love, we bow reveren-
tially before the All-Seeing-Eye ofGod, which the sun,
moon, and stars obey; conscious that it pervades their·
inmost recesses, and tries our thoughts, words, and
actions by the unerring touchstone of truth and eternal
justice.
In the ancient mysteries, the Epoptes, or perfectly
initiated aspirants, were reputed to· have attained a
state of pure and ine:ffable Light, and pronounced safe_
under the protection of the celestial gods ;"" while the
unhappy multitude who had ~ot undergone the puri-
fying ceremonies, were declared reprobate ; said to
wander in all the obscurity of Darkness, to be deprived
of the divine favour, and doomed to a perpetual resi-
dence in the infernal regions, amidst a cheerless and
overwhelming contamination.t
~~--------- - - ·
* Diod. Sic. Bibl.l. v. c. 3.
' t Plato Phredone.-Arist. Eleusinia, et apud Stobeum. Serm. 119, &c.-
Schol. Arist. Ranis.-Diog. Laert. in vita Cog. Cynici. apud Warb. Div.
Leg. b. ii. s. 4.
Digitized by Coogle
112 LECTURE VI.
During the Persian initiations, this doctrine was
enforced ex cathedra. The Archimagus informed the
candidate at the moment of illumination, that the Di-
vine Light1• were displayed before him ; and after
explaining the nature and purport of the mysteries in
general, he taught that the universe was governed by
a good and evil power who were perpetually engaged
in contest with each other, and as each in tum prevailed,
the world was characterized by a corresponding suc-
cession of happiness and misery ; that uninitiated and
immoral men were votaries of the evil power, and the
virtuous initiated of the good; and at the end of the
world, each, with his followers will go into a separate
abode; the latter with Yazdan shall ascend by means
qfa Ladder to a state of eternal LIGHT, wher~ exists
unalloyed happiness and the purest pleasures ; the
former with Ahriman shall be plunged into an abode
of DARKNEss, where they shall suffer an eternity of
disquietude and misery, in a desolate place of punish-
ment situated on the shore of a stinking river, the
waters of which are black as pitch and cold as ice.
Here the souls ofthe uninitiated eternally float. Dark
columns of smoke ascend from this stream, the inside
of which is full of serpents, scorpions, and venomous
reptiles.t
The multitude, being thus amused with fables, and
* Psell. in Schol. in Orac. Zoroast.
t Hyde. de relig. vet. Pers. p. 399.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VI.
terrified with denunciations, were effectually involved
in uncertainty, and directed to paths where error only
could be found'; for every proceeding was mysterious,
and every mythological doctrine shrouded under a
corresponding symbol. These allegorical fables be-
coming popular, the simple rites of primitive worship
soon assumed a new and more imposing form; and
religion was at length enveloped in a veil so thick and
impervious, as to render the interpretation of their
symbolical imagery extremely difficult and uncertain.
The slender thread of truth being intimately blended
and confused with an incongruous mass of error, the
elucidation was a task so complicated and forbidding,
that few had the courage to undertake it ; and men
were rather inclined to bow implicitly to popular tra-
dition, than be at the pains to reconcile truth with itself,
and separate, with a nice and delieate hand, the par-
ticles of genuine knowledge from the cumbrous web of
allegory and superstition, in which they were inter-
woven.
The Darkness of Masonry is invested with a more
pure and dignified reference, because it is attached to
a system of truth. It places before the mind a series
of the most awful and impressive images. It points to
the darkness of death and the obscurity of the grave,""
as the forerunners of a more brilliant and never-fading
* Job x. 21, 22.
1
Digitized by Coogle
IH LBCTURB VI.
Light which follows at the resurrection of the just.
Figure to yourselves the beauty and strict propriety of
this reference, ye who have been raised to the Third
Degree of Masonry. Was your mind enveloped in
the shades of that darkness? So shall you again be
involved in the darkness of the grave, when death has
drawn his sable curtain round you. Did you rise to
a splendid scene of intellectual brightness? So, if you
are obedient to the precepts of Masonry and the dic-
tates of Religion, shall you rejoice, on the resurrection
morn, when the clouds of error and imperfection are
separated from your mind, and you behold with un-
veiled eye the glories which issue from the expanse of
heaven, the everlasting splendours of the throne of
God!
It is an extraordinary fact, that there is scarcely a
single ceremony in Freemasonry, but we find its
corresponding rite in one or other of the idolatrous
mysteries; and the coincidence can only be accounted
for by supposing that these mysteries were derived
from Masonry. Yet however they might-assimilate in
ceremonial observances, an essential difference existed
in the fundamental principles of the respective insti-
tutions. The primitive veneration for Light ac-
companied the career of Masonry from the creation to
the present day, and will attend its course until time
expires in eternity; but in the mysteries of idolatry,
this veneration soon yielded its empire over men's
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VI. 115
minds, and fell before the claims of Darkness ; for a
false worship W<>uld naturally be productive of impure
feelings and vicious propensities. It is true indeed
that the first Egyptians worshipped ON as the chief
deity, who was supposed to be the eternal Light; and
hence he was referred to the Sun as its great source and
emanation. Thus it was said that God dwelt in the
Light, his Virtue in the Sun, and his Wisdom in the
Moon. But this worship was soon debased by super-
stitious practices. The idolaters degenerated into an
adoration of serpents and scorpions, and other re-
presentatives of the evil spirit; and, amidst the same
professions of a profound reverence for Light, became
most unaccountably enamoured of Darkness ; and a
temple near Memphis was dedicated to Hecate Scotia,*
which was styled the Lord of the Creation, and in some
respects deemed oracular. Hence we deduce the
strict propriety of the ninth plague inflicted by
A~mighty vengeance on that infatuated people ; in
which it is most remarkable to observe that the same
terrific sights were exhibited before their affrighted.
senses; the same unearthly noises sounded in their
ears, as usually attended the rites of initiation into the
Egyptian Mysteries.t
With the same reference in view, the Almighty,
many centuries afterwards, denounces his vengeance
...on Pharaoh and the Egyptians.
* Diod. Sic. I. i. c. 7. t Viq. Book of Wisdom, c. xvii.
I~
Digitized by Coogle
JIG LECTURE VI.
" I will cover the heavens when I quench thee,
And I will clothe the stsrs thereof with black ;
I will cover the sun with a cloud,
And the moon shall not give her light.
All the shining lights of the heavens will I clothe with
black over thee,
And will set DARKNESS upon thy land,
Saith the Lord Jehovah.''*
This superstition, which assigned divine honours to
Darkness, was not peculiar to Egypt, but spread, by a
kind of fatality, throughout the idolatrous world; and
was justified on the principle that Darkness or Night,
which had an existence in Chaos long before the
creation 'Of Light, was hence of superior antiquity.t
Thus in their calculations they gave precedence to the
Night ; and to signify one full revolution of the earth
on its axis, they used the phrase, a night and a day,
which the Greeks expressed by the word Nucltthe-
meron. Even the Jews began their calculations from
the evening, because God is said by Moses to have
'Created Light out of Darkness.+ A~d they beheld
the Darkness itself with the most awful sensations,
and considered it as the incomprehensible veil·of the
Deity.§ They thought the greatest mystery of religion
was expressed by adumbration, viz. the Cherubim
shadowing the Mercy Seat. Life was considered but
the shadow of death ; and souls departed but the
*Ezekiel xxxii. 7, 8. Bp. Lowth's Translation.
t Plut. Sym. I. iv. +Genesis i. 2, 3.
S Vid. I Kings viii. 12.-2 Chron. vi. I.-Psalm xviii. 9, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURB VI. 117
shadow of the living; the sun itself but the dark
simulachrum: and Light but the shadow of God.•
The honours thus conferred on Darkness, are plainly
set forth in the Orphic Fragments, where Night is
celebrated as the parent of gods and men, and the
origin of all things.t And hence in the initiations,
Darkness was always hailed with thr~e distinct accla-
mations or cheers, (Tpts Kat ToVTo e?rt1»J,utt"ovTes.):t: For th•se
united causes, Jesus Christ says, that in his time, at
the extreme point of degeneracy which mankind were
suffered to attain, " men loved Darkness rather than
Light, because their deeds were evil."§ And speaking
of the implacable and revengeful spirit inculcated by
idolatry, 'st. John, the beloved disciple of Christ says;
"he that hateth his brother, is in Darkness, and
walketh in Darkness, and knoweth not whither he
goeth, because that Darkness hath blinded his eyes."U
The same reference is abundant in all St. Paul's
Epistles which are addressed to the heathen converts.
From these observations, the customs that follow
may be satisfactorily accounted for.
In all the ancient mysteries, before an aspirant
could claim to participate in the higher secrets of the
institution, he was placed within the Pastos, or Bed,
or Coffin ; or in other words, was subjected to a solitary
confinement for a prescribed period of time, that he
*Brown's Gard. of Cyrus, c. iv. t Euseb. de prrep. evan. 1. iii. c. 9.
::: Damascius, in Bryant's Plagues of Egypt, p. 170.
§John iii. 19. II Ephesiaru; ii. 11.
Digitized by Coogle
118 LECTURE VL
might reflect seriously, in seclusion and Jnrkness, on
what he was about to undertake ; and be reduced to a
proper sta~ of mind for the reception of great and
important truths, by a course of fasting and mortifi•
cation. This WD.$ the symbolicaldeath ofthe mysteries,
and his deliverance from confinement was the act of
regeneration or being born again ; or, as it was also
termed, being raised from the dead.• " Clement of
Alexandria tells us, that in the formulary used by one
who had been initiated he was taught to say, I have
descended into the bed chamber. The ceremony here
alluded to was doubtless the same as the descent into
Hades ; and I am inclined to think, that when the
aspirant entered into the mystic cell, !te was directed
to lay himselfdown upon the bed, which shadowed out
the tomb or cojfin oftlte Great Father. This·process
was equivalent to his entering into tho infernal ship;
and while stretched upon the holy couch, in imitation
ofhisfigwrative deceased prototype, he was said to be
wrapped in the deep sleep of death. His resurrection
from the bed was his restoration to life, or his regene-
ration into a new world ; and it was virtually the same
as his return from Hades, or his emerging from the
gloomy cavern, or his liberation from the womb of the
ship-goddess."t
The candidate was made to undergo these changes
* Vid. Bryant's Anal. vol. ii. p. fl$7.
· t Fab. Pag. Idol. b. v. c. 1.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VI. 119
in scenic representation ; and was placed under the
Pastos in perfect Darkness, generally for the space of
three days and nights. The time of this solitary con-
finement however varied in different nations. In
Britain nine days and nights was the specified period;•
in Greece three times nine days ;t while in Persia it
extended to fifty days and nights of darkness, want of
rest, and fasting! :j: To explain the nature of these
places of penance and mortification, I need not carry
you to distant shores ; the remains in our country are
both numerous and open to public inspection ; for I
have no doubt but the British Cromlech was the
identical vehicle of preparation for the druidical
mysteries.
A celebrated piece of antiquity was recently standing
near Maidstone, called Kit's Cotti House. This was
a dark chamber of probation ; for Kit is no other than
Ked, or Ceridwen, the British Ceres; and Cotti or
Cetti meant an Ark or Chest ; hence the compound
word referred to the Ark of the diluvian god Noah,
whose mysterious Rites were celebrated in Britain; and
Ceridwen was either the consort of Noah, or the Ark
itself; symbolically the great mother of mankind.
The peculiar names which these monuments still retain
throughout the kingdom, are a decisive proof that they
were appropriated, almost exclusively, to this purpose.
• W. Arch. Tri. SO apud Dav. Druids, p. 4-0i.
t Porph. vit. l'yth. t Porph. de abstin. c. vi. s. 18.
Digitized by Coogle
J20 LECTURE VI.
Had they been commonly used for Altars, some marks
of the operation of fire would still have been visible on
their upper surface, which is not the case. Were
they merely sepulchral monuments, the remains of
interred: bodies would be discovered under all of them
without exception ; and such interments have been
very rarely found.
To establish this point more satisfactorily, I "ill
enumerate a few of them. At a village in Somerset-
shire called Stanton Drew, or Druid Stones, we find a
specimen of this structure, which consisted originally of
three circles of stones and a Pastos or adytum. Another
in Cardiganshire, called Llech y Gowres, tlteflat Stone
oftlte Giantess. (Ceridwen.) At the village of Shap
in Westmoreland, is another termed Carl Loft, a name
also applicable to the .Pastos. The Phallus was the
gross symbol under which Noah, or the Great Father
of the mysteries was worshipped; and it was usually
represented by a pyramidal stone. Now in some of
the most ancient dialects of Britain, Kal signified the
Phallus, and Llyv, the Deluge; and hence according
to this etymology, Kal-Llyv, modernizedintoCarl-Loft,
simply meant, the Phallus or memorial of the Deluge.
The list might be increased almost indefinitely.
Coincidences like these are too striking to be over- .
looked; particularly when we consider that the initia-
tions formed a most important and essential part ,of
religious worship; and no person could hold any dig-
nified appointment as a priest, or legislator, without
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE ' VI. 121 ·
passing through these forms, which included, as an
indispensable preliminary rite, the solitary confinement
of the darkened Pastos. Warburton says that the
Pagans appear to have thought initiation as necessary
as the Christians did baptism.• The initiations were
therefore very numerous, and the places where they
were performed not only abounded in every part of the
island, but were invested with a high degree of imagi-
nary sanctity ; particularly the adytum, which was
represented as being the peculiar abode of spirits and
guarded by a vindictive divinity, armed with the sword
of justice. A devotional feeling for these consecrated
places would descend from father to son for many
generations after the knowledge of their particular use
(which was known only to the initiated) had been lost,
or obscured by time, or the prevalence of the Christian
Religion, whose complete success was involved in con-
signing to oblivion, every vestige of th~se ceremonial
rites which might tend to keep alive in the mind, the
object of every mystical celebration. Hence from the
inhumation of the aspirant, which was esteemed equiva-
lent with an actual interment, the Cromlech was said
to be sepulchral ; but this conjecture, after many re-
volving ages, having fallen into disrepute from the ill
success of antiquarian research, which was almost
universally disappointed in its attempts to discover the
crumbling remains of decayed bodies within the area of
* Div. Leg. b. ii. s. 4.
Digitized by Coogle
122 L£CTURE VI.
its inclosure ; it was then assumed that these monu-
ments must necessarily have been altars for sacrifice;
for the notion of their being sanctified appendages to
Religion was never lost·; and it was not supposed that
they could be applied to any other purpose in the rites
of divine worship.•
The emblems here offered to your notice are the
Coffin with the Skull and Cross Bones; the Hour
Glass, the Scythe, the Beehive, and the Sprig of
Acacia. The Coffin, Skull, and Cross Bones are
emblems of mortality, and cry out with a voice almost
more than mortal, prepare to meet th9 God. " The
Hour-glass is an emblem of human life. .We cannot
without astonishment behold the little particles which
are contained in this machine, pass away almost im-
perceptibly, and yet, to our surprize, in the short
space of an hour all are exhausted. Thus wastes
human life. At the end of man's short hour, death
strikes the blow, .and hurries him oft' the stage to his
long and darksome resting place."t
" The Scythe is an emblem of time, which cuts the
brittle thread of life and launches us into eternity.
What havoc does the Scythe of Time make among the
human race I If by chance we escape the numerous
evils incident to childhood and youth, and arrive in
perfect health and strength at the years, of vigorous
manhood ; yet decrepid old age will soon follow, and
* Vid. Dav. Druids, p. 391-410. t Star in the East, p. 136.
Digitized by Coogle
~ ~-·
..
LECTURE VI. 123
we mUst be cut down by the all-devouring scythe of
time, and· be gathered into the land where our fathers
are gone before us."•
The Beehive is an emblem of industry, and recom-
mends the practice of that virtue to all created beings,
from the highest seraph in heaven to the lowest reptile
in the dust. It teaches us that as we came into the
world rational and intelligent beings, so we should ever
be industrious ones; never sitting down contented
while our fellow creatures around us are in want, when
it is in our power to relieve them without inconvenience
to ourselves.
This was a famous symbol in the Orphic mysteries,
into which it had been introduced with a mysterious
reference well worthy of our consideration. " We
learn from one of the ancient Oracles collected by
Opsop~us, that Honey was used in the sacrifices to
Bacchus and the Nymphs; and Sophocles informs us,
that libations of honey and water were made in honour
of the Erinnues, which tremendous deities were in
reality, arkite deities. According to Porphyry, honey
was introduced into the mysteries a1 a symbol ofdeath,
on which account it was offered to the infernal. gods.
This notion will show us the reason why the Chal-
deans, who were deeply versed in the Cabiric orgies,
were accustomed to embalm their dead with honey.
The death, however, celebrated in the mysteries, of
* Star in the East, p. 138.
Digitized by Coogle
124 LEC'ruRE VI.
which honey was the symbol, was not, I apprehend~
a literal, but merely an allegorical death ; the death,
in short of Bacchus, Adonis, and Osiris ; or, in other
words, the confinement of Noah within his Ark or
Coffin ; such a death as this, therefore, was very
naturally described as being sweet, for it was, in fact,
a preservation from danger.• In allusion to the sym-
bolical honey, Samothrace, the grand seat of the Cabiric
superstition, was once denominated Melita ; and for
precisely the same reason, Jupiter was sometimes
feigned to have been fed, during his infancy, by a
swarm of bees. These bees, as we learn from Por-
phyry, were nothing more than the mystic priestesses
of the infernal Ceres, who were called Melissre, or
Melittre, a name, which according to a custom familiar
to the Pagans, they seem to have assumed from the
deity whom they served. Ceres, Venus, or Astarte,
was styled by the Babylonians, Mylitta, or the goddess
of generation ; and as the Cabiric priests assumed the
title of Cabiri, Curetes, or Corybantes, so the priest-
esses of Mylitta called themselves Melissre or Melittre.
The name was afterwards extended to Bees, which
animals, from their great vigour, activity, and liveliness,
* Honey was universally used as a symbol of death. The ancients made
libations to the dead of honey, wine, and blood. Funeral cakes were
placed by the Greek11 in the mouth of deceased persons, to appease the
wrath of Cerberus. Thus Virgil ; Melle sopocatam et medicatis frugibus
offam. llo?rttva, or round, broad, and thin salt cakes, with honey, made
a part of the funeral offerings to Hecate or the Moon.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VI. 1~5
were thought to be proper emblems of what the Epoptre
termed, new born souls. Porphyry concludes his re-
marks upon the Beeg of the mysteries by observing
that the Epoptre did not consider them emblematical
of all souls in general, but only of the just. The
reason why this distinction was made is evident; the
bees symbolized only thejust man and his piousfamily,
not the incorrigible' race which perished beneath the
waves of the deluge."•
The Sprig of Acacia points to that state of moral
obscurity to which the world was reduced previously
to the appearance of Christ upon the earth ; when the
reverence and adoration due to the divinity was buried
in the filth and rubbish of the w?rld, when religion sat
mourning in Israel in sackcloth and ashes, and mo-
rality was scattered to the four winds of heaven. In
order that mankind might be preserved from this de-
plorable state of darkness and destruction, and as the
old law was dead and become rottenness, a new doc-
trine and new precepts were wanting to give the key
to salvation, in the language of which we might touch
the ear of an offended deity, and bring forth hope for
eternity. True religion was fled; those who sought
her through the wisdom of the ancients were not able
to raise her ; she eluded the grasp, and their polluted
hands were stretched forth in vain for her restoration.
Those who sought her by the old law were frustrated,
* Fab. Mys. Cab. c. x. with authorities.
Digitized by Coogle
126 LECTURE VI.
for death had stepped between, and corruption had
defiled the embrace ; sin had beset her steps, and the
vices of the world had overwhelmed her. The Great
Father of all, commiserating the miseries of the world,
sent his only Son, who was innocence (acacia) itself,
to teach the doctrines of salvation; by whom man was
raised from the death of sin unto a life of righteous-
ness; from the tomb of corruption unto the chambers
of hope ; from the darkness of despair to the celestial
beams of faith ; and not only working for us this re-
demption, but making with us the covenant of regene-
ration whence we become the children of God, and
inheritors of the realms of heaven.•
I cannot conclude this Lecture without adding a few
words by way of application on the Darkness of Death
which will as certainly precede your resurrection, as it
did figuratively when your Masonry was completed.
Are you rich, and blessed with an abundant superfluity
of earthly possessions? To you the approach of death
will be bitter indeed, if it find you unprepared, because
it will deprive you ofall your temporal comforts, without
the promise of an equivalent in eternity. Are you
poor ? Still the apprehension of this event conveys a
portion of dismay, which it is difficult entirely to re-
move. We anticipate with a strong feeling of horror,
those bitter agonies, those dreadful pangs, which pre-
cede and accompany dissolution. We behold with
*Star in the East, p. 141.-Hutch. Sp. of Mas. p. 159. Ed. 1775•
.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VI. 127
terror the angel of death approach our dwelling ; and
when he lays hold on us to hasten our struggling na-
ture away, we shrink from ~is grasp, and cling to the
world with a delirious embrace, as if all our hopes and
wishes were centred in its riches and gratifications.
We do not reflect with sensations of pleasure on that
event which excludes us from the light of heaven, and
consigns us to the damps and darkness of the grave, in
which our body must eventually be deposited to be
food for wornis, and to encounter corruption and decay.
We shudder at the thought of being placed in the earth
and covered over with mould ; and when the green
sod is laid upon our grave, to have taken a last, an
eternal farewell of the world and its inhabitants. Bu~
we have a. still greater dread of this event when we
reflect on the eternal destruction of the soul. We
know it must be separated from the body ; we know
that its doom, once pronounced, is irrevocable ; and
we recoil from the prospect of the second death, with
consternation and horror. A few brief instructions
how to subdue these feelings, may be neither improper
nor unacceptable at the conclusion of this Lecture.
Fear God and keep his commandments, says a certain
Degree of Masonry, after king Solomon, for this is the
whole duty of man.• I would recommend to you the
practice of Temperance, not so much tf:> preserve your
* Eccles. xii. 13.
Digitized by Coogle
128 LECTURE VJ.
constitution untainted, as to prepare for its final dis-
solution. I would recommend the practice of the
. golden rule, do unto others lU you would have them do
toyou, not so much to preserve the peace and order of
civil society, (which notwithstanding it cannot fail to
do,) as to inspire in your own bosoms a love of virtue
and good will to man. I would recommend Benevo-
lence and Charity, not merely to provide for the
necessities of indigence, but to introduce into your soul
the fine feelings of humanity, and an extended philan-
throphy which may embrace in the bonds of love the
whole human race. In a word, I would press upon
you the practice of Virtue, and not so much for its
own sake, as in obedience to the divine command; and
in humble imitation of Jesus Christ, whose beneficence
was extended to his most obdurate enemies ; and who
has promised everlasting happiness to all who follow
his pure and holy example. If then to your faith you
add the virt~es of a good life; if you do justly, love
mercy, and walk humbly with you~ God, you have a
protection against the fear of death, which nothing
earthly can remove or take away ; for you have the
promise of scripture, that in this case, your latter end
shall be in peace.• Death is divested of his sting; and
as your pulse advances to its dying throb, you will
serenely await the awful moment when the soul takes
* Psalm xxxvii. 37. 7
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE VI. 129
wing into the boundless and unexplored expanse ; and
in silent meditation you will reflect, I have fought the
good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the
faith ; henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge
shall give me at that day.•
* 2 Timothy iv. 7, 8.
.K
Digitized by Coogle
1:30
LECTURE VII.
ON THE THREE PILLARS, WISDOM, STRENGTH, ANI> BEAUTY.
"\Vhen orient \VIsDOM beam'd serene,
And pillar'd STRENGTH arose;
When BEAUTY tinged the glowing scene,
And Faith her mansion chose;
Exulting bands the fabric view'd,
Mysterious powers adored,
And high the TRIPLE union stood,
That gave the mystic W oao."
Stanfield.
Ta:E emblematical foundation of a Mason's Lodge
is Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty. These three noble
Pillars give it a stability which no exertion of art or
ingenuity can subvert, no forct; can overthrow. They
were thus named in allusion to the perfection with
which our system has been endowed by the Almighty
Architect ; because without Wisdom to contrive,
Strength to support, and Beauty to adorn, no struc-
ture can be perfect. And this is illustrated by are-
ference to the most splendid and awful images which
can be presented to the human mind. The universe
is the temple of the Deity whom we serve ; Wisdom,
Strength, and Beauty are about his Throne as Pillars
of his work ; for his wisdom is infinite, his strength
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VII. 131
is omnipotence, and his beauty shines forth through all
his creation in symmetry and order. He hath stretched
forth the heavens as a canopy, the earth he hath planted
as hi!i footstool ; he hath crowned this superb temple
with stars as with adiadem, and in his hand he ex-
tendeth the power and the glory ; the sun and moon
are messengers ofhis will, and all his laws are concord.•
This universal harmony of nature and nature's works,
emblematical of the peace and unity which subsists in
a Mason's Lodge, is produced from the union of those
sublime qualities by which our fabric is supported,
Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty.
The first Pillars used by the primitive inhabitants
of the earth, were merely trunks of trees, placed up-
right on stones to elevate them above the damp, apd
covered at the top with a flat stone to keep off the rain.
On these the roofs of their huts were placed, covered
with reeds and plastered with clay to resist the effects
of tempestuous weather. From such simple elements
sprang the noble Orders of Architecture. But Pillars
were not confined to this use alone.· In primitive times
they were appropriated to the purpose of perpetuating
remarkable events ; and were erected .as monuments
of gratitude to divine Providence for favours conferred,
or for dangers avoided. By the idolatrous race who
first seceded from the true worship of God, Pillars
were dedicated to the Host qfHeaven. Of this nature
* Hutch. Sp. of Mas. p. 93.
K2
Digitized by Coogle
132 LEC'WRE VII.
were the Pillars set up by Hypsouranios, and Ousous
to Fire and Air before the Flood, which were termed
fltUTvX,a.• Osiris set up Pillars in commemoration of
his conquests, on which were hieroglyphical inscrip-
tions, importing the degree of resistance made by the
inhabitants ofthose countries which he subdued. The
ancient kings of Egypt followed this example, and
usually engraved records of their conquests, power,
and magnificence, on obelisks or pillars.t Sesostris, in
his military progress through the nations he had van-
quished, erected pillars, on which hieroglyphical in-
scriptions were engraven, accompanied by certain
emblematical devices, expressive of the bravery or
pusillanimity of the conquered people.+ And, if I;lro-
clus may be believed, all extraordinary events, singular
transactions, and new inventions, were recorded by the
Egyptians on stone pillars. Hiram, king of Tyre,
according to Menander, dedicated a pillar of gold to
Jupiter, on the grand junction he had formed between
Eurichorus and Tyre.§
' This custom was also in use amongst the descend-
ants of Seth and Shem ; who ,erected Pillars to the
honour of the true God, the creator and pteserver of
all things. Enoch erected two Pillars, in order to
transmit his knowledge to posterity, by inscriptions
engraven on such materials as were calculated to resist
* Sanch. iu Euseh. de prep. evan. I. i. c. 10.
t Diod. Sic. I. i. c• .f..
t Diod. Strabo. &c.
§ los. con. Apion.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTLRE VII. )33
the element by which the world was to be deE~troyed.
The Pillar of Jacob at Bethel,• was constructed to
commemorate his most extraordinary vision and cove-
nant with God. On this pillar he poured oil, whence
arose the custom amongst the heathens of consecrating
their idols by anointing them with oil. A similar mo-
nument was erected by the same patriarch at Galeed,
to perpetuate the treatyofamity with his uncle Laban ;t
by Joshua at Gilgal, on his miraculous passage over
the river Jordan;+ and by Samuel, between Mizpeh
and Shen, on a remarkable defeat of the Philistines.§
Absalom erected a Pillar in honour of himself,II which,
as we are told by modern travellers, remains to this
day; but Dr. Lloyd says that the passers by throw
stones at it in detestation of his memory. And Solo-
mon·set up two Pillars at the entrance of the Porch of
the Temple, to remind the Jews of their dependance
.upon God for every thing they possessed; evidenced
by their escape from Egypt, and their miraculous wan-
dering and preservation in the wilderness for a period
of forty years.,
* Genesis xxviii. 18. t Genesis xxxi. 45. t Joshua iv. 20.
§ 1 Samuel vii. 12. II 2 Samuel xviii. 18.
11' "The pillars erected at the porch of the temple," says Hutchinson, in
his Spirit of :Masonry, published under the sanction of the Graml LOdge,
"were not only ornamental, but also carried with them an emblematical
import in their names. Boaz being in its literal translation, in thee is
strength; and Jachin, it alw.U be established; which by a very natural
transposition may be put thus: 0 Lord, thou art mighty, and thy power
is established from everlasting to everlasting. Or, otherwio~e, they might
jmply, as Boaz was the father of David, the house of David shall be
Digitized by Coogle
134 LECTURE VII.
It is needless to add that commemorative Columns
were used by every nation of the world ; and never
with more propriety and effect than in our own country
at the present day.
The particular Pillars which are the subject of this
Lecture, are emblematical of three great Masonic cha-
racters, whose united abilities rendered an essential
service to true religion, by the construction of a primi-
tive Temple, then first dedicated to the exclusive pur-
pose of religious worship ; for they jointly possessed
the essential properties which characterize the three
great sustaining Pillars of our Lodge ;· the one had
Wisdom to contrive; another had Strength to support;•
and the third possessedgenius and ability to adorn the
edificewith unexampledBeauty. The resultof this union
was "a building which highly transcended all that we
are capable to imagine, and has ever been esteemed
established for ever. I am justified in this latter application by the express
words of Nathan the Prophet unto David, inspired by the vision of the
Lord, (2 Sam. vii. 12, 13, 16.) And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou
ahalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall
proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish thy kingdom. He shall
build an house for my name, an<! I will establish the throne of his kingdom
for ever. And thine houae and thy kingdom aha// be establiahedfor ever
before thee; thy throne ahall be eatabliahedfor e1Jer."
* " Tatian, in his Book against the Greeks, relates, that amongst the
Phamicians flourished three ancient historians, Theodotus, Hysicrates, and
Mochus, who all of them delivered in their histories, an account of the league
and friendship between Solomon and Hiram, when Hirsm gave his daughter
to Solomon, and furnished him with timber for building the Temple. The
· same is affinned by Menander of I•ergamus."-Sir laaac Newton'a Chron.
p.lU. .
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VII. 135
the finest piece of masonry upon earth, before or
since."• " This magnificent work was begun in Mount
Moriah, on Monday the second day of the month Zif,
which answers to. the twenty-first of our April, being
the second month of the sacred year ; and was carried
on with such speed, that it was finished in all its parts
in a little more than seven years, which happened on
the _
eighth day of the month Bul, which answers to the
twenty-third of our October, being the seventh month
of the sacred year, and the eleventh of king Solomon.
What is still more astonishing, is, that every piece of
it, whether timber, stone, or metal, was brought ready
cut, framed, and polished to Jerusalem ; so that no
other tools were wanted nor heard, than what were
necessary to join the several parts together. All the
noise of axe, hammer, and saw, was confined to Leba-
non, and the quarries and plains of Zeredathah, that
nothing might be heard among the masons of Sion,
save harmony and peace."t
These Pillars refer further to the three governors
of the Lodge. The pillar of Wisdom represents the
W. M. whose business is to exert his judgment and
penetration, in contriving the most proper and efficient
means of completing the intended work, of what nature
soever it may be. The pillar of Strength refers to the
S. W. whose duty is to support the authority, and
facilitate the designs of the Master with all his in-
- - - - - - -- - --- ----- - - - - ------- - - -
* Noorth. Const. p. 26. t Nuorth. Con~t. p. 2S.
Digitized by Coogle
136 LBCTURE VU.
fluence amongst the Brethren, and to see that his com-
mands are carried into full and permanenteffect. The
·pillar of Beauty is the J. W. whose duty it is to adorn
the work with all his powers of genius and active in-
dustry ; to promote regularity amongst the Brethren
by the sanction of his own good example, the persuasive
eloquence of "precept, and a discriminative encourage-
ment of merit. Thus by the united energies of these
three presiding Officers, the system is adorned and
established firm as a rock in the midst of the ocean,
braving the malignant shafts of envy and detraction ;
its summit gilded with the rays of the meridian sun,
though stormy winds and waves beat eternally on its
basis.
In the British and other mysteries, these three
Pillars represented the great emblematical Triad of
Deity, as with us they refer to the three principal
officers of the Lodge. We shall find however that
the symbolical meaning was the same in both. It is
a fact, that in Britain, the Ad!Jtum or Lodge was
aduall!J supported by three stones or pillars, which
were supposed to convey a regenerating purity to
the aspirant, after having endured the ceremony of
initiation in all its accustomed formalities. The de-
livery from between them was termed a new birth.•
The corresponding Pillars of the Hindu mythology
were also known by the names of Wisdom, Strength,
* Hanea Taliesin. c. iii.-Dav. DruitlH, p. 230.
Digitized by Coogle
t.ECTURE VII. 137
and Beauty, and placed in the east, west, and south,
crowned with three human heads. They jointly
referred to the Creator, who was said to have planned
the Great Work by his infinite Wisdom ; executed it
by his Strength; and to have adorned it with all its
Beauty and usefulness for the benefit of man. These
united powers were not overlooked in the mysteries,
for we find them represented in the solemn ceremony
of initiation by the three presiding Brahmins or
Hierophants. The chief Brahmin sat in the east, high
exalted on a brilliant throne, clad in a flowing robe of
azure, thickly sparkled with golden stars, and hearing
in his hand a magical rod ; thus symbolizing Brahma,
the creator of the world. His two compeers, clad
in robes of equal magnificence, oecupied correspond-
ing situations of distinction. The representative of
Vishnu, the setting sun, was placed on an exalted
throne in the west; and he who personated Siva, the
meridian sun, occupied a splendid throne in the south.
The Masonic Lodge, hounded only by the extreme
points of the compass, the highest heavens, and the
lowest depth ofthe cent~al abyss, is said to he supported
by Three Pillars, Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty. In
like manner the Persians, who termed their em-
blematical Mithratic Cave or Lodge, the Empyrean,
feigned it to be supported by Three Intelligences,
Ormisda, Mithra, and Mithras, who were usually
denominated irom certain characteristics which they
o,g,tized by Coogle
138 LECTURE VII.
were supposed individually to possess, Eternity, Fe-
cundity, and Authoritg.• Similar to this were the
forms of the Egyptian deity, designated by the at-
tributes of Wisdom, Power, and Goodness;t and the
Sovereign Good, Intellect, and Energy of the Pla-
tonists which were also regarded as the respective
properties of the divine Triad.t
It is remarkable that every mysterious system prac-
tised on the habitable globe, contained this Triad of
Deity, which some writers refer to the Trinity; and
others to the triple offspring of Noah. The Oracle
in Damascius asserts that " throughGut the world a
Triad shines forth, which resolves itself into a Mo-
nad;"§ and the uniform symbol of this threefold deity
was, an equilateral triangle; the precise form occupied
by our pillars of Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty. In
the mysteries of India, Brahma.- VishnU-Siva, were
considered as a tri-une god, distinguished by the sig-
* Vid. Ramsay's Travels of Cyrus, and Dissertation thereto annexed.
t Plut. de lsid. antl Osir. p. 373. +Plat. in Timreo.
§ It is probable that the idea of Unity was not merely attached to the true
God, but to the personification of Adam and Noah, who were equally wor-
shipped in India under the name of Brahma, or the Creattve power, because
the parent of mankintl; for Brahma was confeasedly only a created being.
If he represented Adam or Noah, the triad Brahma-Vishnu-Siva, was
either Abel-Seth--Cain, or Shem-Japheth-Ham; and there exists con-
siderable doubt, after all, whether the being to whom the rites of Hindoo
adoration are still devoutly paid, be any thing more than a mere deified
mortal. See Faber'a Pagan ldolatory, (b. i.e. 2.) where many powerful
arguments are used. to this effect.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VU. 139
nificant appellation of Tri-murti.• Brahma wa,s said
to be the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Siva the
Judge or Destroyer. In the East, as the pillar of
Wisdom, this deity was called Brahma; in the West,
as the pillar of Strength, Vishnu ; and in the South,
as the pillar of Beauty, Siva; and hence, in the Indian
initiations, as we have just observed, the representative
of Brahma was seated in the East; that of Vishnu in
the West ; and that of Siva in the South. A very
remarkable coincidence with the practice of ancient
Masonry.
Mr. Faber offers the following reasonable conjecture
on the origin of these idolatrous Triads. " Adam was
born from the virgin earth ; Noah was produced from
his allegorical mother the Ark, without the co-operation
of a father. Each was a preacher of righteousness;
each dwelt upon the paradisiacal mount of God ; each
was a universal parent. If Adam introduced one
world, Noah destroyed that world and introduced
another ; and as the actual circumstance of two
successive worlds led to the doctrine of an endless
mundane succession, each patriarch was alike received
as a Creator, a Preserver, and a Destroyer."t Sir
William Jones very strongly reprobates the principle
*"The word MURTI or FORli, is exactly synonymous with lti3
w>.ov;
and in a secondary sense means an image; but in its primary acceptation it
denotes any shape or appearance assumed by a celestial being."-Wilford
in Asiat. Res. vol. iii. p. 359.
t Fab. Pag. Idol. b. vi. c. 6.
Digitized by Coogle
140 LECTURE VII.
which would resolve these triads, into the doctrine of
the Trinity. In his essay on the gods of Italy, Greece,
and India,• he says, "Very respectable natives have
assured me, that one or two missionaries have been
absurd enough, in their zeal for the conversion of the
gentiles, to urge, that the Hindus were even now
almost Christians, because their Brahma, Vishnu, and
Mahesa, (Siva) we're no other than the Christian
Trinity ; a sentence in which we can only doubt
whether folly, ignorance, or impiety predominates.
The three powers, creative, preservative,· and de-
structive, which the Hindus express by the triliteral
word OM, were grossly ascribed by the first idolaters
to the heat, lt"ght, and.flame of their mistaken divinity
the Sun ; and their wiser successors in the East, who
perceived that the sun was only a created thing,
applied those powers to its Creatcr; but the Indian
Triad and that of Plato, which he calls the Supreme
Good, the Reason, and the Soul, are infinitely removed
from the holiness and sublimity of the doctrine which
pious Christians have deduced from texts in the
gospel." "In another point of view," says Captain
Wilford,t " Brahma corresponds with the Chronos or
Time of the Greek mythologists; Vishnu represents
Water, or the humid principle ; and Iswara (another
name of Siva) Fire, which recreates or destroys as it
is differently employed."
* Asiat. Research. vol. i. p. 272. t Asiat. Reaearch. vol. iii. p. 369.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE Vll. 141
It seems not altogether improbable, however, but
these Triads which are quaintly termed by Purchas,
"an apish imitation of the Trinity, brought in by the
devil ;"• might originate from a tradition of the Holy
Trinity, revealed to Adam, and propagated by his
des~endants through the antediluvian world. Known
consequently to Noah and his family, this doctrine
would spread with every migration of their posterity ;
and as it certainly formed a part of that original system
which is now termed Masonry, so it was introduced
into every perversion of that system, until the doctrine
of a divine Triad resolvable into a monad, was univer-
sally disseminated in every nation, and was admitted
by every people in the world. In successive ages the
true purport became lost or misunderstood, but the
principle remained, though its application ceased to be
made to the true God and Father of all, and was gene-
rally transferred to the three sons of Noah, as a
triplication of the mortal Father of the human race.t
* Purch. Pilgr. b. ix. c. 10.
t "Nearly all the Pagan nations of antiquity, in their various theological
systems, acknowledged a kind of Trinity in the' divine nature, has been
fully evinced by those learned men, who have made the heathen mythology
the I!Ubject of their elaborate enquiries. The almost univeraal prevalence
of this doctrine in the gentile kingdoms must be considered as a strong
argument in favour of its truth. The doctrine itself bears such striking
internal marks of a Divine original, and is so very unlikely to have been
the invention of mere human reason, that there is no way of accounting for
the general adoption of so singular a belief, but by supposing that it was
revealed by God to the early patriarchs, and that it was transmitted by them
to their posterity. In its progress, indeed, to remote countries, and to dis-
tant generations, this belief became depraved and corrupted in the highest
Digitized by Coogle
142 LECTURE Vlt
The Grecian Triad consisted of Jupiter-Neptune
-Pluto;• the Orphic of Phanes-Uranus-Chro-
nus ; the Platonic of Tagathon-Nous-Psyche; the
Eleusinian of Bacchus-Proserpine-Ceres;t the
Egyptian of Trismegistus or Osiris-Isis-Horus,
perhaps of Eicton-Cneph-Phtha; the Persian of the
triplasian Mithras or Ormisda-Mithra- MithJ;as ;
the Phenician of Ashtaroth-Milcom-Chemosh ;t the
Tyrian of Belus- Venus-Thammuz; the Celtic of
Hu-Ceridwen-Creirwy; the Gothic of Woden-
degree; and He alone 'who brought life and immortality to light,' could
restore it to its original simplicity and purity. The discovery of the ex-
istence of this doctrine in the early ages, among the nations whose records
have been the best preserved, has been of great service to the cause of
Christianity, and completely refutes the assertion of infidels and ~ceptics,
that the sublime and mysterious doctrine of the Trinity owes its origin to
the philosophers of Greece. ' If we extend,' says :Mr. 1\Iaurice, 'our eye
through the remote region of antiquity, we shall find this very doctrine,
which the primitive Christians are said to have borrowed from the Platonic
school, universally and immemorially flourishing in all those countries,
where history and tradition have united to fix those virtuous ancestors of
the human race, who, for their distinguished attainments in piety, were
admitted to a familiar intercourse with Jehovah and the Angels, the Divine
heralds of his commands."'-Bp. Tomline'a Theol.
* In this triad it is worthy of remark, that Jupiter is distinguished by
the three-forked lightning; Neptune by the trident; and Pluto by Cerberus
the three-headed dog.
t In a temple mentioned by Pausanias, {Attic. p. 6.) Baechus, Ceres,
and Proserpine were worshipped together. In another temple Ceres, Pro-
serpine, Minerva, and Apollo ; and in a third the West Wind, Ceres,
Proserpine, Minerva, and Neptune were united objects of adoration.-Jul.
Firm. de Error. Prof. Rei. p. 89, 91.
:;: This was the form of that abominable Triad worshipped by King
Solomon in his dotage, on the three peaks of Mount Olivet.-2 Kings ·
xxiii. 13.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VII• 143
.
Friga-Thor;• the Peruvian of Tangatanga, or Three
in One and One in Three; and the Mexican of Vitz-
liputzli-Tlaloc-Tescalipuca.t
In our own country the Triad was usually represented
by THREE PILLARS; and many monuments remain
which show to what an extent this system of devotion
was carried by the British Druids. These pillars
were not always uniform either in dimensions or situ-
ation, but were differently placed, either triangularly
or in a right line ; and were certainly 9bjects of
adoration to the superstitious natives.t The celebrated
Pillars at Boroughbridge were of this nature. They
consist of three colossal, upright stones placed at about
two hundred feet distant from each other ; and stand
about twenty-two feet above the surface of the ground,
measuring on an average sixteen feet in circumference.
They are termed by the country people, The Devil's
Arrows, which corroborates the opinion that they were
British deities; for it is a singular fact, that every
monument which has this name attached to it, is
supposed to have been peculiarly sacred.§ Leland
* Olaus Magnus, in his history of the Goths, tells us that the Lithuanians
worshipped a Triad consisting of Fire, Wood, and Serpents.
t The tenets of religion amongst our ancestors were founded on thru
fundamental articles, viz. reverence for the Deity-abstaining from evil-
behaving valiantly in battle; and the triad rule for the preservation of
health was, cheerfulness-temperance-exercise.-(Smith. Gael. Ant. p.
80.) Aristotle and Plutarch say that the number three was held mysterious
because it comprehended the beginning-middle-end.
:): Pennant's Tour from Alston Moor to Harrogate, p. 96.
§ The reasons for this belief are fully discussed in my " Antiquities of
Grimsby," p. S9, 60.
Digitized by Coogle
144 LECTURE Vn.
tells us• that there were originallyfour Pillars, and that
one of them has ·been destroyed.t This might have
been of still more extensive m3nanitude, and designed
to express the triad completed in a monad. The
three+ stones which formed one of the Adyta in the
stupendous Druid Temple at Abury in Wiltshire, said
by Gough in Camden, to have served for a Chapel, are
called by Aubrey, The Devil's Quoits. A Kist-vaen
in Clatford bottom in the same county, is also com-
posed of three upright stones, and is called, The Devil's
Den. In the parish of Llan Rhwy-Drus, in that
grand depository of Druidical superstition, Anglesey,
are the remains of this species of idol. Gibson in
Camden informa us that they are placed triangularly;
one is eleven feet, and the others ten and nine feet in
height. On a mountain near Kil y ma.en lhwyd in
Caermarthenshire, is another specimen of this kind of
monument, placed near a circular temple. In Penrith
church-yard, in the county of Cumberland, still re-
main Three Pillal:'s placed triangularly, and erected on
other stones to avoid the supposed contamination of
the earth. Two of them are about twelve feet, and
the third about six feet in height. The two former
enclose a space of ground which is traditionally
denominated the Giant's Grave; and the latter is
It Itin. v. 8. t Vid. also Drake's Hist. of York, p. 27.
t The Druids had an extraordinary veneration for the number three;
and on this principle, says Vallancey, it was, that the misletoe was held so
eacred by them, since not only its berries, but its leaves also, grow in
clusters of three united on one stalk.
Digitized by Google
LECTURE VU. 145
The Giant's Thumb. Now the British deities were
all esteemed giants; and the tradition in this instance
corresponds with the fact. Besides, the Pastos, or
symbolical grave, in which the candidate suffered a
mythological interment, was said to be guarded by the
gigantic deity Buanwr, and if these three pillars formed
constituent parts of an adytum, which is highly pro-
bable, the name it now retains is perfectly consistent
with the pure principles of British mythology. Much
has been written on the subject of these Pillars by all
our best antiquaries, who seem to agree that they were
of British erection, though they puzzled to account for
their being inscribed with a CRoss. But this.doubtless
arose from the anxiety uniformly displayed by the first
christian missionaries to transfer the devotional attach-
ment of the natives from a lifeless image to the eternal
God, by assuming the great emblem qf christianity,
which had indeed been previously used by the Druids,
but with a different allusion. And this conjecture is
strikingly exemplified by the fact, that a christian
church was erected within the actual bounds of this
sanctuary of idolatry.
Such were the representatives of Hu-Ceridwe~­
Creirwy, the principal deities of the ancient inhabitants
of this island, or their substitutes the three presiding
officers of the British mysteries, who were denominated
Cadeiriath, Goronwy, and F1eidwr Flam, seated in the
east, west, and south. Before these senseless blocks
of unhewn stone, the more senseless inhabitants of
L
Digitized by Coogle
tECTURE VII.
Britain prostrated themselves daily in humble adora-
tion ; firmly persuaded that their prosperity in every
undertaking, nay, even the preservation of their lives
and liberties was dependant on the beneficent agency
of these shapeless idols!
I shall conclude the present Lecture with a brief
consideration ofthe ultimate reference which the Three
Masonic Pillars bear to your moral and religious du-
ties. As the Doric, the Ionic, and the Corinthian
Orders of Architecture are said to support your Lodge,
so let ·your conduct be governed by the qualities they
represent. Let Wisdom guide your .steps to that
fountain of knowledge, and source of truth, the Holy
Bible. There shall you find rules for the government
of your actions; and the path that leads to eternity.
Even the science you profess instructs you, that if you·
be conversant in the doctrines of this Holy Book, and
strictly adherent to its precepts, it will conduct you to
a building not made with hands, eternally in the hea-
vens. Proceed in this career armed with the Strength
of faith and hope, assured that if your faith in the
Deity be securely founded, your constancy can never
fail; so shall your charity shine forth in all the Beaut!J
of holiness ; your acts of piety and virtue shall emit a
brilliancy like the Sun pursuing his daily course in the
heavens, and finally secure you a place in the Grand
Lodge above, where Peace, Order, and Harmony
eternally abide.
Digitized by Coogle
147
LECTURE VIII.
ON THE MASONIC LADDER.
" - - - - Far distant he deacrys,
Ascending by Degree1 magnificent
Up to the wall of heaven, a structure high,
At top whereof, but far more rich, appear'd
The work as of a kingly palace gate.
* * * * *
The Stairt were such as whereon Jacob saw
Angela ascending and descending."
Milton.
WE have now contemplated the great object of our
FAITH and HoPE; we have beheld the unlimited power
exhibited in the expulsion of our first parents from the
garden of Eden, and the subsequent destruction of the
antediluvian world ; events which have been uniformly
grafted into all the mysteries ofheathen nations. And
we have considered with feelings ofsurprise and.regret,
how mankind renounced the true and living God in
conjunction with LIGHT, and devoted themselves to
imaginary deities, who were worshipped in union·with
Darkness; which elicited the vengeance of insulted
Purity in a series of scourges inflicted on them by war,
pestilence, and famine. But in the midst of justice He
always remembered mercy. After the first great dis-
L2
Digitized by Coogle
148 LECTURE VIII.
play of power in the general destruction of mankind,
this gracious Being placed his bow in the clouds, as a
divine token that mercy should now prevail ; and that
be would no more destroy the earth by a fl.ood of
waters. And when mankind had degenerated to the
lowest point of human depravity, he sent his Son to
make atonement for them, that lost purity might be
restored, faith and hope placed on a firm foundation,
and his fallen creatures readmitted within. the sphere
of his favour and protection. Thus the dark clouds
of divine wrath are dissipated, the heavens are opened;
and we enjoy a ray of his glory in the celestial cover-
ing of the Lodge. And more than this ; the same
divine Being bas taught lis how to attain the sum-
mit of the same, by means which are emblematically
depicted by a ladder consisting of three principal
RouNDS or STAVES,' which point to the three Theo-
logical Virtues, FAITH, HoPE, and CHARITY. We
are now to consider the origin and application of this
Symbol, by which a communication is opened between
the creature and his Creator, with the gracious design
of restoring to man that supreme happiness which was
forfeited by Adam's transgression.
The application of this emblem is said to be derived
from the vision of Jacob. When the Patriarch, to
avoid the wrath of his · b:rother Esau, fl.ed tO Pa-
danaram ; benighted and asleep, with the earth for his
bed, a stone for his pillow, and the cloudy canopy of
heaven for his covering, he beheld a LADDER, whose
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VIII. 149
foot W4J.S placed on the spot where he lay, and its
summit l~t in the subtile ether. On this ~der,
angels contin~ally ascended and descende4, to receive
commUbicatioJis from the Most High, who visibly
appeared above the uppermost round·of the Ladder ;
and to disseminate their ·divine commisions over the
face of the earth. Here God graciously condescended
to enter into a specific covenant with the sleeping
Patriarch ; who was hence so impressed with the
feelings of gratitude and devotion, that when he avvoke,
he pronounced this consecrated spot, " the bouse of
God, and the gate of heaven.''•
The history ofan event ofsuch imp,ortance, connected
with a very significant emblem, which was probably a
.square pyramid with steps on every side, might with
unequivocal effect, be introduced by Jacob into the
system of Masonry which be taught to his children,t
and from ·them be transplanted into the mysteries of
Egypt, whence it might spread into other COUJ\tries,
·until .the symbol became com:mon to the mysteries of
all. I rather incline to the opinion however, that its
origin may be ascribed to a much earlier period ; even
to the first institution of Masonry in Paradise, when
the communication between God and man, was imme-
·diately and unrestrainedly practised by the common
.parents of mankind.. The ascent to the summit of the
paradisiacal mount of God, by means of a pyramid
·*Genesis xxviii. 17. t Vid. Antiq. of Masonry, p. 204.
o,g,tized by Coogle
150 LECTUAB VUI.
consisting of seven steps, was an old notion, certainly
entertained before the vision of Jacob; for it prevailed
amongst the Mexican Savages ;• and the original
settlers on the vast contine~t of America could have
no knowledge of this vision, either by tradition or per-
sonal experience. The Jewish Cabalists entertained a
belief that the paradisiacal mount was the place of re-
sidence chosen by the children of Seth, while the con-
taminated descendants of Cain resided in the plains
below; and its altitude was said to be so great, that
from its summit might be heard, th~ angels of heaven
singing their celestial anthems before the throne of
God!
In ancient Masonry, the Ladder was figuratively
said to rest on the Holy Bible, and to consist of three
principal staves, although the general number was
indefinite, pointing to Faith, Hope, and Charity, as
the fundamental virtues which exalt mankind from
earth to heaven. But in subsequent ages, the Essenes
increased the number to seven, and subsequently to ten
principalsteps, which were denominated the Sepltiroth.
• In the midst of a thick forest, says M. Humboldt, called Tajin, near
the gulf of Mexico, rises the pyramid of Papantla. It had BJIVEN.Storiea;
waa built of hewn atone, and was very beautifully and regularly shaped.
TBRBE stair caaea led to the top. The covering of ita steps was decorated
with hieroglyphical sculpture and small niches, which were arranged with
great symmetry. The number of these niches seems to allude to the three
hundred and eighteen aimple and compound signs of the days of the Com-
pohualilhuitl, or civil calender of the Toltecks.-Rueai'CMB..in America,
vol. i. p. S6.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VJII, 151
· In the emblematical .representation of these divine
splendours, we find the three great hypostases of the
godhead surmounting the seven steps of the Ladder,
and by regular gradations ascending to the celestial
abodes. The names of the Seven Sephiroth were,
Strlmf(tlt, Mercy, Beauty, Victory or Eternity, Glory,
the Foundation, and the Kingdom. Initiation was
considered absolutely necessary to intitle the candidate ·
to a participation in these divine splendours; which
communicated with each other by progressive stages ;
until, from the summit of the Ladder, the three
hypostases ofthe divine nature were attained whose con-.
.summation was a crown ofglory and the throne of God.
)52 LECTURE VIII.
Amongst the heathen this Ladder always consisted
of seven steps or gradations ; probably as a memorial
of the seven magnificent Stories of the Tower of Babel;
or it might have been derived from a tradition re•
specting the establishment of the Sabbath, in.comme.
moration of the great day of rest 'which followed the
~reation and received the peculiar benediction of the
Most High.• This division of time and consecration
of the seventh day was known to the sons of Noah, as
we may gather from our own scriptures, for it was
practically enforced by the patriarch while he con-
tinued in the Ark.t Hence the sacred nature of the
seventh day was universally acknowledged by all
nations of their posterity ;:J: and consequently many
mysterious properties were ascribed to the nuritber
itself.§ The extreme probability that the · number
seven was applied to the Theological Ladder with this
reference, may be deduced from the fact, that each
gradation was appropriated to a day in the ·week, ·and
also to a particular planet; and it is observable that
the seven days, and the seven planets, were made to
'*Genesis ii. s. t Genesis viii. 10, 12.
t Ilion. Cass. 1. xxxiii. Acosta an1l Humboldt are of opinion that no
nation of the New Continent was acquainted with the week or cycle of
seveh days. But Garcilasso, Bailly, and Lalande unite in believing that the
natiVes of America did compute their time by this cycle like the inhabitants
of the Old World.
§ The Druids assigned to man seven senses. Thus Taliesin says, " of
seven faculties, one is what I know ·by instinct; with the second I tOuch;
with the third I call ; with the fourth I taste ; with the fifth I see j with
the sixth I hear; with the seventh I smell,"-Owen'H Diet. v. Rhtpiiaw.
LECTURE VIII. 153
correspond in almost every country in the world. Our
own names of both may be referred to as a corrobo-
ration of the system Thus Sunday is so called from
the Sun ; Monday, from the Moon ; Tuesday and
Wednesday, from Tuisco· and Woden, the Gothic
Mercury and Mars; Thursday, from Thor, the Jupiter
of the same people ;• Friday, from the goddess Friga,
w}_lo amongst the Getre corresponds with the Grecian
Venus ; and Saturday, from the idol Seater, who re-
presented Saturn amongst the nothern nations of
Europe.t
The Ladder with seven steps was used in the Indian
mysteries to designate the approach of the Soul to per-
fection. The steps were usually denominated gates.
The meaning is 'undoubtedly the same; for it is
observable that Jacob, in reference to the lower stave
of his Ladder, exclaimed, " this is the house of God,
and the gate of heaven." Here we find the notion of
ascen~g to heaven by means of the practice of moral
virtue, depicted by the Hebrew Patriarchs and by a
.remote idolatrous nation under the idea of a Ladder;
which we may hence conclude was a Masonic symbol
* There exists some degree of confusion relative to the appropriation of
th~ days. Tuisco may be more properly assimilated with the Roman
Mercury, and Woden with Mars. But Tertullian says (Apol. c. ix.) that
Thqr was the same as Mercury; and Brady tells us that (Clav. Calend. vol.
i. p. 117.) "the Romans dedicated Wednesday to Mercury, from which
cause it was called Dies Mercurii, feria quarta ; and the Roman Mercury
and the Saxon Odin have from thence, and in despite of the Roman Idol
not having been a warrior, usually been regarded as the same deity."
t Verst. Rest. of Dec. Intell. c. iii-Brady's Clav. Calend.
Digitized by Coogle
154 LECTURE VJII.
much earlier than the time of Jacob. These gates
were said to be composed of different metals of gra-
dually increasing purity; each being dignified with the
name of its protecting planet. The first and lowest
was composed of lead, and dedicated to Saturn ; the
second of quicksilver, sacred to Mercury ; the third of
copper under the protection of Venus ; the fourth of
tin, typical of Jupiter ; the fifth ·of iron, sacred to
.Mars; the sixth of silver, dedicated to the Moon; and
the uppermost stave, which constituted the summit
of perfection, and opened a way to the residence of
celestial deities, was composed of the pure and im-
perishable substance of gold, and was under the pro-
tection of their Most High God, the Sun.
In these mysteries, during the ceremony of initia-
tion, the candidate was passed successively through
seven dark and winding caverns ;• which progress was
• In every country under heaven the initiations were performed in ca-
nma either natural or artificial. Several of the former are atill in existence
in thia country. There is a rem~kable one in Somersetshire, called Wokey
hole; which is described as a very dark and dismal cavern coruiating of
variou1 apartments, amongst which one is now called a hall, another the
kitchen, others the ball room, cellar, &c. There are also reaemblances of
a man's head, a monument or tombstone, a dog, the statue of a woman (in
white stone), called the old witch, a table, and many other artificial things
in the natural rock. There are two ci1terns always full of clear water,
which tricklesfrom the top qf the rock, but never runs over in great quall-
titiea. A huge stone, which when lifted from, and let fall to the ground,
maku a noise like the report ofa cannon, has for that reason got the ap-
pellation of the great gun. There are also two rivulets abounding in trout
and et>ls, which run through this cave making a tremendous noise; one of
them tums several mills after it is out. The inside of this cave is rocky
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VIII. · 155
mystically denominated, the ascent of the Ladder.
Each cavern terminated ·in a narrow stone orifice,
which formed an entrance into its successor. Through
these gates of purification, the mortified aspirant was
compelled to squeeze his body with considerable labour;
and wlien he had attained the summit, ·he was said to
have passed through the transmigration of the spheres,
t.o have accomplished the ascent of the soul, and to
merit the favour of the celestial deities. These seven
stages·of initiation, emblematical of the seven worlds,
are thus explained. " The place where all beings
whether fixed or moveable exist, is called earth, which
is the First World. That in which beings exist a se-
cond time, but without sensation, again to become sen-
sible at the close of the periOd appointed for the duration
of the present universe, is the World of Be-existence.
The abode of the good, where cold, heat, and light are
perpetually produced, is named Heaven. The inter-
mediate.region between the upper and lower worlds, is
denominated the Middle World. The heaven, where
animals, destroyed in a general conflagration, at the
close of the appointed.period, are bon1 again, is thence
called the World of Birt!ts. That, in which Sanaca
and uneven, the surface ascending and descending, as is the case in m011t
· other subterraneous places. It is in some places, eight fathoms, or forty-
eight feet, high, and in others not above six. Its length is computed to be
about six hundred and forty feet; in some parts the water dropping from
the rock, hangs down like icicles, which has a very beautiful effect. The
rock inside is of different colours, being in some parts of a silvery hue,
while in others it glitters like diamonds.
Digitized by Coogle
156 LECTURE VIII.
and other sons of Brahma, justified by austere devotion,
reside exempt from all dominion, is thence named the
Mansion of,the Blessed, Truth, the Seventh World,
and the abode of Brahma,• is placed on the summit
above other worlds. It is attained by true knowledge,
by the regular discharge of duties, and by veracity :
once attained it is never lost. Truth is indeed the
seventh world, therefore called the sublime abode."t
In the Persian mysteries, the candidate, by a similar
process, was passed through seven spacious caverns,
connected by winding passages, each opening With a.
narrow portal, and each the scene of some perilous
adventure to try his courage and fortitude before he
was admitted into the splendid Sacellum, which being
illuminated with a thousand torches, reflected every
shade ofcolour from rich gems and amulets, with which
the walls were copiously bedecked. The dangerous
progress was denominated ascending the Ladder of
perfection.
*This being was identified with LIGHT, for the Brahmins say," be~ause
the being who shines with seven rays, assuming the fonns of time and fire;
matures productions; is resplendent; illuminates, and finally destroys the
universe; thereforehe who naturally shines with seven rays is called Light,
or the effulgent power." (Colebrook. Aaiat. Rea. vol. S. p. 350.) Thus
Brahm is Light; and Light is the principle of life in every created thing.
" Light and darkness are esteemed the world's eternal ways; he who
walketh in the fonner path, returneth not, i, e. he goeth immediately to
bliss; whilst he who walk,th in the latter, cometh back again upon the
earth," or is subjected to further tedious transmigrations.-Bhagvat. Geeta.
p. 76.
t Colebrooke, in Asiat. Research. vol. 5. p. 351.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE VIII. 157
From this doctrine has arisen the tale of Rustam,
who .was the Persian Hercules, and Dive Sepid, or the
White Giant.•
" Cai-Caus, the successor of Cai~Cobab, the first
monarch of the Caianian dynasty, is instigated by the
song of a minstrel to attempt the conquest of Ma-
zenderaim, which is celebrated as a perfect earthly
Paradise."
This celestial abode refers to the splendid sacellurn
of the Persian Epoptre, which was an emblematical
representation of heaven.
" It lies in the regions of Aspruz, at the foot of
which, with respect to Persia, the Sun sets·; and in
literal geography it is deteril.linoo to be a province
bordering on the Caspian Sea. Hence it is part of
that high tract of country denominated the Tabaric or
Gordyean range, within the limits of which the groves
Of.Eden were planted, and the Ark rested after the
Deluge. Cai-Caus fails in his enterprise ; for the
sacre.d country is guarded by the White Giant, who
.m1itu him and a!J his troops w#h blindness, and makes
them his prisoners."
This ia a literal aecount ofth~ first stage of initiation,
which,.in the mysteri~s, always commenced with Dark-
.ne&l~ . In those of Britain the candidate is designated
.as a bli.nd man. He is. c~mmandoo to .prepare the
Cauldron of Ceridwen, three drops of whose contents,
* Fab. Pag. Idol. vol. iii. p. 3~~
Digitized by Coogle
1:)8 LECTURE VJU.
properly concocted, were said to possess the faculty
of restoring the sight,. and infusing a knowledge of
futurity. Being unsuccessful, Ceridwen (the giantess)
strikes the unfortunate aspirant a violent blow over
·his head with an Oar, and causes one of his eyeballs
to fall from the socket.• And the captivity of Cai-
Caus and his Persians in the Cavern, under the rigid
guardianship of the Dive, is but a figurative represen-
tation of the candidate's inclosure under the Pastos ;
and this place of penance in the Celtic Mysteries,
which had many ceremonies in common with those of
Persia,t was said to be guarded by the gigantic deity
Buanwr, armed with a drawn sword, who is represented
as a most powerful and vindictive being, capable in his
fury ofmaking heaven, earth, and hell, to tremble.+ In
the Gothic mysteries, the same place of captivity and
penance -is fabled to be guarded by Heimdall, whose
trumpet emits so loud a blast, that the sound is heard
through all the worlds.§
" In this emergency the king sends a messenger to
Zaul, the father of the hero Rustam, begging his im-
mediate assistance. For the greater dispatch, Rustam
takes the shorter, though more dangerous road, and
departs alone, mounted on his charger Rakesh."
Here Rustam enters upon the dreadful and danger-
ous business of initiation, mounted, says the legend,
* Hanes Taliesin. apud Dav. Druids, p. 218, i29.
t Borl. Ant. of Com. b. ii. c. i2.
~ Dav. Notes on Taliesin'a Cad Goddeu. SEdda Fab. IS.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE Vlfi. }59
upon the charger Rakesh, or more properly Rakshi.
This was a horrible winged animal, whose common
food is said to have been serpents and dragons. Now
these reptiles, together with monsters compounded of
two or more animals, were the ordinary machinery
used in the mysteries to prove the courage and fortitude
of the aspirant, during his progress through the seven
stages of regeneration.
" The course which he chooses is styled, THE RoAD
OF THE SEVEN STAGES ; and at each of the first six he
meets with a different adventure by which his perse-
vering courage is severely tried."
At each of the seven stages the candidate really
encountered many dangers ; and vanquished a multi-
tude of dives, dragons, and enchanters who in suc-
cession opposed his progress to perfection.• Being
pantomimically enacted during the process of initiation,
and the reiterated attacks prosecuted with unrelent-
ing severity, instances have occurred where the poor
affrighted wretch has absolutely expired through excess
-of fear.
" Having at length however fought his way to the
seventh, he discovers his prince and the captive Per-
sians ; when he learns from Cai-Caus, that nothing
will restore his sight but the application of three drops
ofblood from the heart of the White Giant."
The symbolical three drops of blood, had its coun-
* Shah name, in Richardson's Dissert. East. Nat.
Digitized by Coogle
..
160 LBCTURE VIII.
terpart· in all the mysteries of the ancient world ; for
the number three was ineffable, and the conservator of
many virtues. In Britain, the emblem was three drops
of water ; in Mexico, as in this legend, three drops of
blood; in India, it was a Belt composed of three
triple threads ; in China, the three strokes of the
letter Y, &c. &c. .
" Upon this, he attacks his formidable enemy in the .
Davern where be was accustomed to dwell; and having
torn out his heart, after an obstinate combat, he infuses
the prescribed three drops into the eyes of Cai-Caus,
wlto immediately regains his powers f!f?Jision."
· In this tale we have the theological Ladder con-
nected with the system of Persian initiation transferred
from mythology to romance ; an~ the coincidence is
sufficiently striking to impress the most ordinary ob-
server with the strict propriety of the application.
The candidate comes off conqueror and is regularly
restored to light, after having given full proof of his
courage and fortitude, by surmounting all opposing
dangers. Father Angelo, who went out as a mission-
ary into the East about 1663, says, that in the midst
of a vast plain between Shiraz and Shuster, he saw a
quaillrangutar monument of stupendous size, which
was said to have been erected in memory of this great
enterprise of the hero Rustam. The fact is, that this
quadrangular inclosure was an ancient place of initia-
tion ; and from a confused remembrance of the scenes
of mimic adventure which were represented within its
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VUI. 161
seven secret ca'Derns, the fabulous labours of Rustam
bad doubtless their origin.
It is not the least singular part of this enquiry, that
the followers of Mahomet still use the same form of
expression to convey an idea of the progressive state of
tonnent in the infernal regions. This is only a con-
tinuation of the doctrine of the mysteries, which taught,
that the initiation ofcandidates was in reality a repre-
sentation of the descent of the soul into Hades, and of
its passage through the seven stages of purification
preparatory to its admission into the abode of light and
purity. They say that Hell bas Seven Gates, each
containing a different degree of punishment. The
first and least severe they call Gehenn.em, which. is
prepared for all mussulmen who are sinners. The
second called Ladha, is for the Christians. The third
is the Jewish Hell, and called Hothama. Sair, the
fourth, is for Sabians ; and Sacar, the fifth for Ma-
gians. Pagans and Idolaters occupy the sixth, which
they call Gehim ; and the lowest and most horrible
depth of hell they ~sign to hypocrites, who pretend to
more religion than their neighbours, and set themselves
up as patterns of perfection, while inwardly they are
full of all kinds of wickedness and impiety. This
dreadful gate, or place of eternal punishment is called
HaofJiath.•
You will much wonder at these very extraordinary
* ~aim. Hist. Diet.
M
•
Digitized by Coogle
162 LECTURB VIII.
coincidences, which are exceedingly valuable, because
undesigned ; and render the conjecture highly probable
that they were but an imitation of the Masonic Ladder,
as used in our sciencebefore the mysteries had a being.
But I have yet to introduce to your notice a coincidence
still more remarkable, because proceeding from a coun-
try where such a tradition could scarcely be expected
to exist. Yet it is no less true that distinct traces of
this Ladder, attended by the very same references,
are found in the inhospitable regions of Scandinavia,
which have been indubitably preserved in the Gothic
mysteries, though the application is somewhat more
obscure.
The court of the gods, says the Edda, is ordinarily
kept under a great Ash Tree called·Ydrasil, where
they distribute justice. This Ash is the greatest of
• all trees ; its branches cover the surface of the earth ;
its top reaches to the highest heavens ; and it is sup-
ported by three vast root3, one of which extends to the
ninth world, or hell. An eagle, whose piercing eye
discovers all things, perches upon its uppermost
branches. A squirrel is continually running up and
down to bring news ; while a parcel of serpents,
fastened to the trunk, endeavour to destroy him. The
serpent Nidhogger continually gnaws at its root.
From under one of the roots runs a fountain, wherein
wisdom lies concealed. From a neighbouring spring,
(the fountain of past things,) three virgins are con-
tinually drawing a precious water, with which they
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE VIU.
irrigate the Ash Tree; this water keeps up the beauty
of its foliage; and after having refreshed its leaves,
falls back again to the earth, where it forms the dew
of which the bees make their honey.•
Mr. Mallet ofFers no conjecture on this mysterious
tree, and Mr. Cottle fairly gives it up. ·I pronounce
it however to have been the Theological Ladder of the
Gothic mysteries. Mr. Cottle in the preface to his
interesting version of the Edda ofSaemund, says, " the
symbolical purport of this Tree is inexplicable amidst
the dearth ofinformation res~ting the ancient religion
of Scandinavia." And without a reference to the va-
rious systems of initiation into the religious mysteries
of other nations, I should incline to that gentleman's
opinion. But by comparing the qualities and charac-
teristics of this sacred Tree with the Ladder of the
mysteries, the difficulty vanishes, and the solution
appears at once simple and natural.
The ba.Sis of Ydrasil, like that of Jacob's Ladder,
was the earth, where it was firmly established by three
vast roots; one of which extended to the _central abyss.
These roots evidently referred to the three lower gates,
or chambers of initiation; the last of which was Hades,
or the region of the dead. Its branches covered the
earth and its top reached to the. heavens, where sat
enthroned, an eagle, the representative of the supreme
God. The court·of the inferior gods was said to be
* Mall. North. Ant. Yol. i. e. 6.
Digitized by Coogle
164 LECTURE VIII.
under this tree; and Jacob said of the place where
the foot of his ladder was situated, this is. the house of
God and the gate of heaven. On its summit sat the
emblematical eagle, as Jehovah appeared on the ladder
of Jacob, or on the paradisiacal mountain; and this
bird, as we have already seen, was actually a compo-
nent part of the visible symbol of the true God, as
exhibited in the Jewish Cherubim; .and the universal
representation of the deity in almost every nation under
heaven. A squirrel, or messenger, continually ascended
and descended to carry eelestial commissions from the
eagle-deity, to the council ofinferior gods seated below;
whence they were supposed to be disseminated over the
face of the earth. And the same subordinate deities
were said to take cognizance of the actions of mortals,
and to convey an impartial account thereof by the
fquirrel to the deity seated on the summit of the Tree;
which was also the office of the angelic messengers on
Jacob's Ladder. A par.cel of serpents,·symbols of the
evil power, unceasingly endeavoured to intercept the
communication between God and man, by the destruc-
tion of the ~essenger. The monstrous serpent Nm-
HOGGER, who is the representation of the prince of
darlmess himself, we are further told,• continually
gnaws its root for the same purpose, willing to sever
the .connection between the Creator and his fallen
creatures, by the total demolition of the medium
·* Elida. l<'ab. viii;
Digitized by Coogle
CECTUllE VIII. 165
through which the 'benevolent communication. is car-
ried on. In the Hindu mythology, the prince of the
evil dremons is represented as a large serpent, whose
name is NA'tA. And the Hebrew name for the tempter
of Eve in Paradise, translated in our version of the
Bible, " the serpent," was NAcHASH. These were
both. the Nidhogger of the Gothic mysteries.. In the
Essenian mysteries, the. Holy Bible was figuratively
said to be the consecrated foundation of .Jacob's Lad-
der, because the covenants and promises of God are
permanently recorded in that sacred book ; and this
basis the old serpent who deceived Eve, is continually
endeavouring to destroy, by subverting the faith of .
mankind in its contents.
The three roots are emblems of Faith, Hope, and
Charity) because it is by the exercise of these virtues
alone, that man can enjoy a well grounded expectation •
of ascending from earth to heaven. Three Virgins,
symbols of Past, Present, and Future, continually
watered this Tree from thefountain of Past Things ;
which is expressive of the solemn truth, that the deeds
of men shall be kept in perpetual remembrance until
the last day, when they shall be rewarded or punished
according to their works. From the surplus of this
water which fell to the el!-rth after having refreshed
the leaves of the Ash, the bees made their honey. In
all the ancient mysteries, Honey was an acknowledged
symbol of death ; and is said in this case to have been
produced from the rifuse of the water; which, being
Digitized by Coogle
J6G LECTURE VIII.
rejected by the sacred Tree, referred unquestionably
to the evil deeds contained in the water of Past Things,
(the good actions having been absorbed by the Ash,
and consequently accepted by the supreme•Being, per-
sonified in the eagle ;) and hence the honey which was
concocted from it, was emblematical of that seco;nd
death, which forms the eternal punishment of sin.
In illustration of the contents of this Lecture, I here
introduce the following Table, which will exhibit the
SEVEN STEPPED LADDER of the mysteries in all its va-
rious and extensive application.
Digitized by Coogle
0
~
N.
~
~
(')
0
~
~
•
NO., METALS. ICOLOURS.,
I IGOTHIC I DAYS OF I IEJ,EMENTS., JEWISH I INDIAN
STONES. IPLANETS. DEITIES. THE WEEK. VIRTUEs. SEPBIBOTH. WORLDS.
I IYellow. )
I
I I
I Kingdom. I
'1 Gold. 'fopaz.
I Sol. Sun. Sunday. Charity. Light. Truth. I
I
6 ISilver. lWhite. I PearL
I Luna. IMoon., Monday. Hope. Water. Foundation IMansion of
· the Blessed.
5. I Iron.
I Red.
I
Ruby. ·I Mars. lTuisco. iTuesday. Faith. Fire.
I Glory.
I
World or
I Births.
4 I Tin. Blue. 1 Sapphire. 1 Jupiter. I Thor. IThursday. I Justice. Air.
t
Victory. I Middle
I World.
3 ICopper., Green. I Emerald. I Venus.
I Friga.
I
Friday. IFortitude I Life.
I Beauty.
I Heaven.
2 IQuick-
silver.
Purple. Amethyst., Mercury. IWoden., Wednesday Temper- IThunder-
ance. Bolt. Mercy. I World of
Re-existence.
lj Lead. Black. Diamond. J Saturn. 1~ater, ISaturday., Prudence. Earth. Strength. IFirst World.
168 LECTURE VIII.
You have here a most extraordinary coincidence of
custom with respect to the Masonic Ladder, existing •
in every region of the world, and all equally applicable
to a gradual ascent to heaven by the practice of moral
virtue. Amongst us this practice is founded on the
strong basis of FAITH, which .is the first step of the
Ladder resting on the word of God. It produces a
well grounded HoPE of sharing the promises recorded
in that Sacred Volume; and this is the second step of
the Masonic Ladder. The third or more perfect step
is CHARITY, by which we attain the summit of the
Ladder ; metaphorically speaking, the dominion of
bliss, and the mansion of pure and permanent delight.
Digitized by Coogle
169
LECTURE IX.
ON THE POINT WITHIN A CIRCLE.
" But though past all dUfused, without a!bore
His eaence; local ia his Throne, as meet ·
To gather the dispersed, as Standards call
The listed from afar; to fix a point,
A ctmtral point, collective of his sons,
Since finite every nature but his own.
* * * * * *
If earth's whole orb by some dire distant eye
Were seen at once, her towering Alps would sink
And levell'd Atlas leave an even sphere.
Thus earth and all that earthly minds admire,
I& awallow'd in Eternity's va8t rqund,"
Young.
THE progress of error is rapid and uniform, when
the restraints imposed on man's depravity by a pve
and peaceable religion, are exchanged for the .wild
drea~ns and enthusiastic figments of human invention;
and like a spherical body precipitatedwith violence from
the summit of an inclined plane, acquires additional
force and velocity at every revolution, until its progress
is irresistible. An illustration of this principle will be
contained in the present Lecture on that most im-
portant emblem of Masonry-A PoiNT WITHIN A
CIRCLE.
Whether we regard this symbol in the purity of its
Digitized by Coogle
170 LECTURE IX.
legitimate interpretation ; or consider the unlimited
corruption which it sustained in its progress through
the mysteries of idolatry, the general principle will
be found equally significant. It was originally the
conservator of a genuine moral precept founded on a
fundamental religious truth; but innovation followed
innovation, until this degraded symbol became the
dreadful depository of obscenity and lust.
The use of this emblem is coeval with the first
created man. A primary idea which would suggest
itself to the mind of Adam, when engaged in reflections
on his own situation, the form of the universe, and the
nature of all the objects presented to his view, would
be, that the creation was a circle and himselfthe centre.
This figure, implanted without an effort, would be ever
present in all his contemplations, and would influence
his judgment to a certain extent, while attempting to
decide on the mysterious phenomena which were con-
tinft.ally before him. To persons unacquainted with
the intricate philosophy of nature, as we may fairly
presume Adam was, this is the plain idea conveyed to
the senses.by a superficial view ofnature's works. Ask
an unletter.ed hind of the present day, and he will tell
you that the earth is a circular plane; and perhaps he
will have some indistinct notion that the expanse above
his head is spherical, but he will assuredly look upon
himselfas the common centre ofall. This is consistent
with the general appearance of things; for if he look
around, he finds the horizon, unle&s intercepted by
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE JX. 171
the intervention ofsensible objects, equally distant from
the point of vision in all its parts. And the experiment
uniformly producing the same results whether made by
night or day, he relies on the evidence of his senses,
and pronounces his own judgment correct and irre·
futable. So the first created man. Himself the centre
of the system, he would regard Paradise as the limit of
the habitable earth, and the expanse as the eternal
residence of the omnipresent Deity. A little reflection
however would soon bring him nearer to the· truth.
The garden of Eden was of a circular form, and th~
Tree of life was placed in the centre ;• now,:as the
fruit of this tree was reputed to convey the privilege
of immortality, the centre would hence be esteemed the
most honourable situation, and be ultimately assigned
to the Deity, who alone enjoys the attributes of immor.
tality and eternity ; for Adam, in his progress to
different parts ofthis happy abode, would soon conclude,
that, however he might be deceived by appearances, he
himself could not be a permanent centre, because he
was constantly changing his position.
To this august Circle, the two forbidden Trees were
the accompanying perpendicular parallel lines,t point-
* Genesis ii. 9.
t Bishop Newcombe, in his Notes on the Prophet Ezekiel, giveR an
exemplification of these perpendicular parallel lines. In that prophet's
description of the Cherubim, the following pauage occurs, " they turned
not when they went; they went every one straight forward ;" {Ez. i. 9.)
on which the learned prelate thus remarks. " The wheels and horses of
chariots bend and make a circuit in turning ; but this divine machine, ac-
o,g,tized by Coogle
172 LECTURB IX.
ing out GOd's equal justice, and mercy. When Adam
had violated the divine command, and eaten of the tree
of knowledge, justice demanded that the threatened
penalty should be paid. But here mercy interposed,
and be was expelled from the abode of purity and peace,
now violated by transgression, " lest he should put
forth his band and take also of the tree of life, and
live for ever''• in a state of wickedness and sin. Hence
arose the Masonic Emblem of a Point within a Circle.
....-This emblem, united with the Masonic Ladder, was
reduced to practice very soon after the universal
deluge ; and made the basis of a stupendous design
which was intended to render man independent of his
God, and prevent the misery of being dispersed and
scattered abroad in private companies over the face of
, the earth.t In a former publication,+ I quoted a
passage from Noorthouck's Constitutions, which assigns
a square form to the celebrated Tower of Babel; but on
more mature consideration, I am inclined to think that
the opinion is erroneous. The first buts built for the
tuated by one spirit, moved uniformly together; the same line being alway11
preserved between the oorresponding cherubs and wheels, the Bides of the
rectangle limiting the whole, being always parallel, and the same faces of
each cherub always looking onward in the same direction with the face of
the charioteer. This proceeding directly on, in the same undeviating, in-
flexible position, see'!na to show their steadineBII in performing the Divine
will, which advances to its destined goal right onwards." And again,
(v.l7.) "the axis of the former wheels was always parallel to that of the
latter. The wheels are supposed to express the revolutions of God's pro-
vidence; which are regular, though they appear intricate."
* Genesis iii. 22. t Genesis xi. 4. l Ant. of Freemas. p. 136.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 173
habitation of man, are supposed by Vitruvius to have
been erected on a circular base, as we know the cabins
of the primitive Britons were, with a post in the centre
to support .the roof. This disposition is in perfect
accordance with the principle referred to above ; and
the form might not sustain any material alteration be-
fore the flood ; for the first colonisers of every country
after the dispersion, used, with one consent, the same
plan in the construction oftheir domestic edifices. The
Tower of Babel may be supposed therefore to have
partaken of this figure not only from common usage,
but also from its similiarity to the spiral flame; for it
was dedicated to the sun, as the great agent, according
to the belief of these impious architects, employed in
drying up the waters of the deluge. Verstegan has
given a plate of this ·edifice in the Title Page to his
Restitution of Decayed Intelligence in Antiquities;
and it is there represented as the frustum of a cone
with seven gradations. Calmet has followed this author,
and has given also an engraving with the same design.
And indeed this was the most convenient form for the
construction of such a stupendous work. According
to Verstegan, "the passage to mount vp, was very wyd
and great, and went wynding about on the outsyd : the
middle and inward parte for the more strength being all
massie ; and by carte, camels, dromedaries, horses,
asses, and mules, the carriages were borne and drawn
vp : and by the way were many logings and hosterie$
both for man and beast. And some authors reporte
Digitized by Coogle
174 LBCTURE IX.
the space for going vp to haue bin soo exceeding wyd;
that there were feildes made all along besydes the
common passage or highway, for the nuriture of cattel
and bringing foorth of grain, but how-euer it were, an
almost incredible great woork, may it well be thought
to haue bin."•
Here then we have a superb specimen of the Point
within a Circle, supporting the Seven Stepped Ladder,
delineated in characters which cannot be mistaken ;
acknowledged by the whole race of men, and occupy-
ing their united and undivided energies, to confer
upon it the indisputable qualities of magnificence and
durability.
/ The primitive explanation of this mysterious emblem
amongst the gentiles, did not widely differ from the
elucidation still used in the Lectures of Masonry. The
Circle referred to eternity, and the central Point to
time, to show that time was only a point compared with
eternity, and equidistant from all parts of its infinitely
extended circumference ; because eternity occupied the
same indefinite space before the creation of the world
in which we live, as it will do when this world is re-
duced to its primitive nothing.
When mankind had transferred their adoration
from the Creator to his works, they advanced specious
reasons to justify a devotion to spheres and circles.
Every thing great and sublime which was continually
* Rest. Dec. Int. p. 4o. ·
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 175
· presented to their inspection, partook of this form.
The Sun, the unequivocal source of light and heat,
was a primary object of attention, and became their
chief deity. The earth, the planets, and fixed stars,
proceeding in all their majestic regularity, excited
admiration, and implanted devout feelings in their
hearts. These were all spherical; as was also the
arch of heaven, illuminated with their unfading lustre.
The next progressive observations of mankind would
be extended to the unassisted efforts of nature in the
production of plants and trees ; and these were found
to exhibit, for the most part, the same uniform appear-
ances. From the simple stalk of com, to the bole of
the gigantic lord of the forest, the cylinder and cone,
and consequently the circle were the most common
forms assumed by the vegetable creation. Every fruit he
plucked, every root he dug from the earth for food,
was either globular, cylindrical, or conical, each
partaking of the nature of a circle. If a tree were
divi'ded horizontally, the section uniformly exhibited
the appearance of a Point within a succession of con-
centric Cireles. The same will be true of an onion,
a carrot, and many other vegetables. Similar results
would be produced from an inspection of animal bodies.
The trunk is a cylinder ; and the intestines, so often
critically examined for the purposes of augury, pre-
sented to the curious enquirer, little variation from
the general principle. Hence statues bearing these
fqrms were subsequently dedicated to the Olympic
Digitized by Coogle
J76 LECTURE IX.
Gods; a Cylinder to the Earth, and a Cone to the
Sun.•
In this figure, Nature, in her most sportive mood,
appeared exclusively to delight. If a bubble were ex-
cited on the water, it was spherical; and if any solid
body were cast upon the surface, the ripple formed
itself into innumerable concentric circles rapidly suc-
ceeding each other, of which the body, or moving cause
was the common centre. If water were cast into the
air they found · that the drops invariably arranged
themselves into a globular form. This uniformity was
soon observed, and thought to be a preternatural indi-
cation ofdivinity; for if Nature assumed one unvarying
character in all her works, that character must be an
unquestionable symbol of the God ofNature. Hence the
Circle with its centre distinctly marked, became a most
sacred emblem with every nation of idolaters ; adopted
perhaps from the same symbol used by their forefathers
on the plain of Shinah ; referring primarily to the
immeasurable expanse occupied by infinite space ; a
proper type of eternity, but now justified by a reference
to the works of Nature. This was the general belief,
though the expression varied in different ages, and
amongst the inhabitants of different nations.
The tribes contiguous to Judea, placed a Jod (')in
the centre of a Circle, as a symbol of the deity sur.
rounded by Eternity, of which he was said to be the
· * Porph. apud. Euseb. de p.r~p. ev;ln. 1. iii. c. 7.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 177
inscrutable author, the ornament and the support. The
Samothracians had a great veneration for the Circle,
which they considered as consecrated by the universal
presence of the deity; and hence Rings were dis-
tributed to the initiated, as amulets possessed of the
power ofaverting danger.• The Chinese used a symbol
which bore a great resemblance to that which is the
subject of this Lecture. The Circle was bounded
north and south by two serpents, (equivalent to the two
perpendicular parallel lines of the Masonic symbol ;)
and was emblematical of the Universe protected and
supported equally by the Power and Wisdom of the
Creator. The Hindus believed that the supreme Being
was correctly represented by a perfect sphere, without
beginning and without end.t The first settlers in
Egypt transmitted to their posterity an exact copy of
our Point within a Circle, expressed in emblematical
language. The widely extended Universe was repre-
sented as a Circle of boundless light, in the centre of
which the deity was said to dwell ; or in other words,
the circle was symbolical of his eternity ; and the per-
pendicular parallel lines by which it is bounded, were
the two great luminaries of heaven, the Sun and
Moon ; the former denoting his virtue, the latter his
wisdom. And this idea was generally expressed by a
hawk's head .in the centre of a circle, or an endless
serpent inclosing an eye.
* Plin. Nat. Hist.l. xxxiii. c. 1. t Holwel. Hist. Events.
N
Digitized by Coogle
178 LECTURE IX.
But the most expressive symbol to this effect used
by any people who had renounced the true religion,
was the famous emblem of Pythagoras, who contrived
not only to express the only One God residing in the
midst of eternity, but united with it an idea of the
divine Triad, and blended. emblems of regeneration,
morality, and science. For this purpose he added to
the central Jod, nine other Jods disposed about the
centre in the form of an equilateral triangle, each side
consisting of the number FOUR. .Th~ disciples of
Pythagoras denominated this symbol Trigonon-mys-
ticwm, because it was the conservator of many awful
and important truths.•
I. The Monad, or active principle.
2. The Duad, or passive principle.
8. The ~riad, or world proceeding from their union.
4. The sacredQuaternary,involvingthe liberalSciences,
Physics, Morality, &c. &c.
Of this remarkable Emblem, a full explanation may
be equally interesting and instructive.
The symbol of all things, according to Pythagoras, ·
was one and two. One added to two make three; and
once the square of two make FOUR, which is the perfect
Tetractys; and 1+2+3+4=10 the consummation of
all things; and therefore the amount of the points con-
tained within the Pythagorean Circle, is exactly Ten.
Hence, because the first four digits added into each
other made up the number ten, this philosopher called
* J~nnings. Jew. Ant. b. i. c. 12.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 179
the number four 7r&.,Ta &ptB,.,)w, all number, or the whole
number; and used it as the symbol of universality.•
To ascertain, however, the entire meaning of this
symbol, it will be necessary to take the numbers in-
cluded within the Circle in their natural order, and
hear what hidden mystery the philosophy of Pythagoras
attached to each.
The number ONE was the point within the circle,
and denoted the central fire, or God, because it is the
beginning and ending; the first and "the last. It sig-
nified also love, concord, piety, and friendship, because
it is so connected that it cannot be divided into parts.
Two meant darkness, fortitude, harmony, ,and justice,
because of its equal parts ; and the moon, because she
is forked_:_ THREE referred to harmony, friendship,
peace, concord, and temperance. All these, and many
other virtues depended on this number and proceeded
from it. FouR referred to the deity, for it was con-
sidered the number of numbers. It is the first solid
figure; a point being 1, a line 2, a superficies 3, and a
solid 4. It was also the Tetractys; a Woan sacred
amongst the Pythagorean~, and used as a most solemn ·
* The aum of all the principles of Pythagoras is this. " The Monad is
the principle of all things. From the Monad came the indeterminate
Duad, as matter subjected to the cause Monad; from tlte Monad and the
indeterminate Duad, numbers; from,t&umbera,pointa; from points, linea;
from linu, mpe'lfo;iea; from auperjiciea, aolida; from these solid"bodies,
wh011e elements are four, Fire, Water, Air, Earth; ofall which transmu-
tated, and totally changed, the World consiets."-Stanley. Hiat. Phil. vol.
3. pp. 1, 100.
Nfl
o,g,tized by Coogle
180 LECTURE IX.
oath, beca~se they considered it the root and principle,
the cause and maker of all things. Plutarch interprets
'this word differently. He says it is called Koa,uos, the
world, and therefore refers to the number Thirty-six,
which consists of the first four odd numbers, added
into the first four even ones, thus ;
1 + ~= 3
8 + 4 - 7
5 + 6 - 11
7 + 8 - 15
36
The Tetractys of Pythagoras, however, was doubtless,
represented by the number Four, because this was the
number of perfection, the divine· mind, the image of
God, &c ; and the Tetractys was no other than the
glorious Tetragrammaton or the Jews.
The number FivE,• was Light, nature, marriage,
&c. Six, health. SEVEN, was said to be worthy of
veneration, because it referred to the creation of the
world. EIGHT, was the first cube, and signified friend-
ship, council, prudence, and justice.. NINE, was called
'TEMtos, because a perfect human being undergoes nine
* The Druids applied this number to the elements. " Five elements
there .are; that is to say, Earth, Water, Fire, Air, and the Heavens; and
out of the four first comes every inanimate matter; and out of the heaven
God, and all of Jive and living; and from the conjunction of these five
came all things, or animate or inanimate they be."-Owen'1 Diet. v. Nev.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 181
month's gestation ,in the womb;. and TEN, was denomi-
nated Heaven, because it was the perfection of all
things.•
The Point within the Circle~ afterwards became an
universal emblem to denote the temple of the Deity,
ancl was referred to the Planetary Circle, in the centre
of which was fixed the Sun, as the universal god and
father of nature ; for the whole circle of heaven was
called God.t Pythagoras esteemed the central fire the
supernal mansion of Jove ;t and he called it Meaovpaveo
. because the most excellent body ought to have the
most excellent place ; i e. the centre.§ And Servius
tells us it was believed that the centre of a temple was
the peculiar residence of the Deity; the exterior de-
corations being ·merely ornamental.II Hence the as-
tronomical character used to denote or represent the
Sun, is a Point within a Circle ; because that figure is
the symbol ofperfection. The most perfect metal gold,
is also designated in chymistry by the same character.
With ·this reference the Point within a Circle was
an emblem of great importance amongst the British·
Druids. Their temples were circular ; many of them
with a single stone erected in the centre; their solemn
processions were all arranged in the same form ; their
* Jambl. vit. Pyth. c. xxviii.-Macrob. in Somn. Scip. 1. 6.-Porph. vit
Pyth. p. 32.-Plut. Plac. Phil. I. i.-Nicom. Arith. p. 7.-Diog. Laert. \'it
Pyth. &c. &c.
t Cicero de nat. deor. 1.
§ Plut. Simplic.
~ Stob. Phys.-Aristot. de C~rlo. Lii.
II Serv. Georg. 3.
Digitized by Coogle
182 LECTURE IX.
weaponS of war, the circular shield with a central boss, ·
the spear with a hollow globe at its end, &c. all par-
taking of this general principle ; and without a circle
it was thought impossible to obtain the favour of the
gods. ~e rites of divination could not be securely
and successfully performed unless the operator were
protected within the consecrated periphery of a magi-
cal circle. The plant vervain was supposed to possess
the virtue of preventing the effects of fascination, if
gathered ritually with an iron instrument, at the rising
of the dog-star, accompanied with the essential cere- .
mony of describing a circle on tiLe turf, tlte circum-
ference ofwhich shall be equally distantfrom the plant,
before it be taken up.•
Specimens of British temples founded on the prin•
ciple of a point within a circle are still in existence to
demonstrate the truth of the theory. "There are in
Pembrokeshire several circular stone monuments,-
but the most remarkable is that which is called Y
Gromlech, in Nevern parish, where are several rude
stones pitched on end, in a circular order ; and in the
midst ofthe circle, a vast 'rude stone placed ~n several
pillars."t Near Keswick in Cumberland, is another
specimen of this druidical symbol. On a hill, stands
a circle of forty blocks of stone placed perpendicularly,
of about five feet and a half in height ; and one stone
in the centre of greater altitude. But the most stu-
* Borl. Ant. Corn. p. 91, from Pliny. t Gibson's Camd. CoL 635.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURB IX. 183
pendous circular temples were those of Stonehenge and
Abury, the latter being three miles in length.• The
body of the temple at Classerniss, in the island of
Lewis, sacred to the Sun and the Elements, will also
illustrate the principle before us. This curious Celtic
temple was constructed on geometrical andastronomical
principles, in the form of a Cross and a Circle. The
circle consisted of twelve upright stones, in allusion to
the solar year, or the twelve signs of the Zodiac ; the
east, west, and south are marked by three stones each,
placed without the circle, in direct lines, pointing to
each of those quarters ; and towards the north, is a
double row of twice nineteen stones,forming two per-
. pendicular parallel lines, with a single elevated stone
at the entrance. In the centre of the circle, stands,
high exalted above the rest, the gigantic representative
of the Deity, to which the adoration of his worshippers
was peculiarly directed.t
Thi~ extraordinary symbol was also used by the an-
cient inhabitants ofScandinavia; and had an undoubted
reference to the Hall of Odin, or the Zodiac; which,
the Edda informs us,i contained twelve seats disposed
in theform ofa circle, for the principal gods, besides
an elevated throne in the centre for Odin, as the re-
presentative of the Great Father. One important
* Stukeley's Letter to Gale.
t Olaus Magnus, apud Borl. Ant. of Corn. p. 193.-Toland. Druids,
vol. i. p. 90. ·
~ Fab. vii.
Digitized by Coogle
184 LECTURE IX.
purpose to which the circular monuments of this people
were appropriated, was, the election of the Gothic
sovereign chieftains. They were usnally compos~ of
twelve unhewn stones, placed on end. in a cirCular
form, with one taller and more ma.Ssive th:m the rest,
pitched in the centre as a seat or throne for the object
of their choice. The upper ~urface· of these stones was
usually flat and broad; for it was from thence that the
Drottes or Priests harangued the people, congregated
around the inclosure, on the comparative merits of the
respective candidates for this exalted office. The
suffrages being taken, the fortunate chieftain was
elevated on high, and publicly exhibited to the view of
his assembled subjects. This was the probable origin
of our custom of chairing newly elected Members of
Parliament. Three of these rude monuments remain
to this .day ; one near Lunden in Scania.; anotlier at
Lethra in Zealand ; and a third near Vir~urg in
Jutland.•
It is remarkable that in all the ancient systems of
mythology, the Great Father, or the male generative
principle was uniformly symbolized by a Point within
a Circle. This emblem was placed by the Scandina,.
vian priests and poets, on the central summit of a
Rainbow, which was fabled to be a bridge leading
from earth to heaven ; the emblem therefore repre-
sented Valhall, or the supernal palace of the chief
* Vid. Mall. North. Ant. vol. i. c. 8.
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 185
celestial deity• .. It is said in the Edda,• that this
bridge " is an on fire; for the giants of the mountains
would clinib up to heaven by it, if it were easy for every
one to walk over it." The palace thus elevated, was
no other than the celestial system, illuminated by a
central Sun, whose representative on earth was Thor,
a god depicted by Verstegant with a crowned head
placed in the centre of twelve bright stars, expres.
sive of the Sun's annual course through the Zodiacal
Signs.
But however this emblem might have a general
reference to the Deity or his ~mples; in the later
ages of idolatry it bore a more. immediate relation to
the generative principle .of. nature, symbolized by the
union of the sexes. I am ashamed to stainmy page with ·
the discussion which this parfof iny subject necessarily
introduces ; but it cannot .be wholly avoided, as the
point within a circle, with an .unequivocai allusion to
the Phallic worship, was the principal object of de.
votion with every people in the world. In India, the
adytum or most holy place in the temples of the deity,
always contained the Linga or Phallus, which had a
prominent situation assigned to it, amongst the innu.
merable emblems with which the walls were covered.t
In Eygypt, the same practice was observed.§ Behoni
says of the temple at Tentyra; "The shafts of the
* Fab.-vlli. t Rest. of Dec. Int. p. 74.
t Maur. Ind. Ant. vol. ii. p. 245. § Diod. Sic. I. i. c. 6.
Digitized by Coogle
186 LBC'nJRE IX.
columns are covered with hieroglyphics and figures in
the front and lateral walls.-On all the walls, columns,
ceilings, or architraves, there is no where a space of
two feet that is not covered with some figures of human
beings, animals, plants, emblems of agriculture, or of
religious ceremony."• Amongst these the Phallus is
a conspicuous emblem. The places of initiation in
Chaldea were precisely of the same nature. Ezekiel
thus describes them : " The Spirit of God brought me
to the door of the court, and when I looked, behold, 'a
hole in the wall. Then said he untQ me, Son of man,
dig now in the wall; and when I had digged in the
wall, behold, a door. And he said unto me, go in, and
behold the wicked abominations that they do here. So
I went in and saw ; and behold, every form of creeping
things, and abominable beasts, and all the idols ofthe
house ofIsrael, portrayed upon the wall round about."t
In Greece, the Phallus was an universal amulet. It
was thought to prevent every species of calamity ; and
was accordingly hung at the doors of houses, offices,
and workshops. It was visible in every situation, and
was even suspended from the necks of children to pre.
serve them from the effects offascination.t " The same
indecencies," says Faber, "were practisedin the rites of
the Cabiric Ceres, as in those of Bacchus, Osiris, and
Maha.-Deva. Her deluded votaries vied with each
* Belz. Refiearches in Egypt, p. 34.. t Ezekiel viii. 7-10.
+Varro. J. vi.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 1~7
other in a studied obscenity of language, and her noc-
turnal orgies were contaminated with the grossest
lasciviousness.• And Diodorus the Sicilian,t says that
such language was used under the impression that it
was pleasing and acceptable to the goddess.+ Even the
Israelites themselres were not entirely free from the
contamination of such abominable practices ; for the
Linga of the Hindus, the Phallus and the Priapus of
t~e Greeks and Romans, and the Baal-Peor of the
idolatrous Israelites, was one and the same mon-
strous emblem, which was equally represented by a
point within a circle. Jerom says,§ that the idols
worshipped by the latter, were most of them dedicated ,
to Baal-Peor, who was portrayed in a gross and inde- .
cent attitude. · Denique interpretantur, Beelphegor
idolum tentiginis, habens in ore, id est, summitate
pellem, ut turpitudinem membri virilis ostenderet.
This deity was chiefly. honoured by female votaries.
The good king Asa saw and lamented the wide spread-
ing abomination, which was even practised under the
regal sanction ;. for his mother Maacha had herself
actually erected an altar to this unnatural divinity.ll
This worship was the last and lowest stage of human
* Fab. Mys. Cab. vol. ii. p. 93. t Bibl. I. v. c. I.
:;: It may be here remarked, as creditable to the ancient Druids, that ob-
scene and imp,roper language was disallowed in their mysteries. The can-
didates were for ever disgraced if they " uttered one word of unseemly
import." Song of Hywell, in tbc W. Archaiol. translated by Mr. Davies,
Druids, p. 285.
§ In Osee. c. ix. Ill Kings xv. 13.
o,g,tized by Coogle
188 LECTURE IX.
deba,sement ; and evinces the strict propriety of those
scripture phrases which refer to the universal de-
pravity of mankind when given up to the defilements
of idolatry.•
Mr. Maurice thinks this disgraceful emblem was
derived from Egypt; for Diodorust deduces its origin
from the search instituted by Isis for the body of her
husband, which had been divided by Typhon into
fourteen parts, and distributed over the face of the
whole earth. For a long time the disconsolate widow
could not succeed in finding the genitals of her dis-
membered husband, which had been committed to the
waters of the Nile by.his murderer. Being at length
discovered, they were buried with great solemnity; and
a commemorative festivalwas·instituted, in which long
poles, with fi.gures of this emblem attached to the sum-
mit, were carried about in procession ; and a legend
to the same purpose, was recited during the initiations.+
Captain Wilford,§ gives another account ofits origin.
This gentlemap. says, it was believed in India, that at
the general deluge, every thing was involved in the
common destruction, except the male andfemale prin-
ciples, or organs of generation, which were destined to
produce a new race, and to re-people the earth when
* Vid. Leviticus xviii. xix. and xx.-Deuteronomy xii. Sl.-Patrick on
I Kings xiv. 24..-Romans i. IS, ad fin. &c.
tl.i.c.2. '
~ Psellus, ap. Taylor's Dissert. in Pamphleteer, vol. viii• .
§ On Mount Cauc. Asiat. Res. vol. vi.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 189
the waters had subsided from its surface. The female
principle, symbolized by the Moon, aasumed the form
of a lunette or crescent ; while the male principle, sym-
bolized by the Sun, assuming the form of the Linga,
placed himself erect in the centre of the lUIWtte, like
the mast of the Ship. ·The two principles, in this
unitedform, floated on the surface of the waters during
the period of their prevalence on the earth ; and thus
became the progenitors of a new race of men. Hence
they were received as objects of adoration under the
imposing names of the Great Father and Mother of
mankind ; and the acknowledged symbol of this mys-
terious union was, a Point within a Circle.
The true origin of this infamous worship, may,
perhaps, be more correctly derived from the sin of
Ham, who discovered and exposed his father's naked-
ness ; and the use of the degrading symbol might pro-
ceed from the curse inflicted on his posterity, who were
thus reduced below the level of their species.
Such were theabsurd and dangerous systems, founded
however in truth, which deformed the religion of
heathen nations, and degraded celestial reason to a
level with brutal instinct. To the true Mason, on the
contrary, this emblem points out the most useful and·
invaluable lessons ; and while he keeps his wishes and
hopes bounded by the rules . and ordinances o~ the
Sacred Code, he may be assured that his character
will be venerated amongst men, and the fragrance of
his virtue will ascend to the throne of his father who
Digitized by Coogle
190 LECTURE IX.
is in heaven like an evening sacrifice. And when the
shades of age and imbecility shall have damped those
energies which were once employed in the ardour of
active virtue; his d~clining strength shall be .cheered
by the retrospect of what his benevolence effected while
health and vigour remained, 'and by the prospect of the
bright reward which lies before him ; and while he
considers this life but as the very beginning of his
existence, he looks forward to that smiling worid be is
about to enter ; and anticipates, with inexpressible
gratification, the cheering welcome he will receive from
saints and angels, and the spirits of just men made
perfect.
If you would enjoy such happy anticipations when
advanced in years, and your bosom is becoming dead
to the fascinations of life, you must circumscribe your
t~oughts and actions by the instruction of this signifi-
cant emblem. Even your reputation amongst mankind,
is principally dependent on the rectitude of your moral
conduct. If you wish for the commendation of the
wise and good ; and, what is still of greater importance,
the favourable testimony of your conscience, you must
be honest and true, faithful and sincere, and practice
· all the virtues enjoined equally by Masonry and
Christianity. You must keep within the compass,
and act upon the square with all mankind ; for your
Masonry is but a dead letter if you do not habitually
perform its reiterated injunctions. You may boast of
its beauties; (and you have just reason to do so,) you
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE IX. 191
may attend its Lectures ; you may be an enthusiast in
its forms and ceremonies ; but unless you reduce it to
practice ; unless its incitements be brought to bear
upon your moral conduct, you can enjoy no advantage
over those who are still in darkness, and the benefits
of Masonry have been extended to you in vain. Cir-
cumscribe your actions then within the ~undary line
of your duty to God and man, and convince the world.
that the System of Masonry is something more than a
name.
o,g,tized by Coogle
19'2
LECTURE X.
ON THE MASONIC APRON.
" We know thee by thy Apron white,
An architect to be;
We know thee by thy trowel bright,
Well skill'd in Masonry."
Solomon'I Temple, an Oratorio.
THE ~hiefbusiness of Masonry is to direct and guide
the judgment to the practice of virtue ; for it is chiefly
by being able to distinguish between right and wrong,
that depravity is avoided, and purity of mind cherished
and ensured. The understanding is the parent of
virtue; and by gradually nurturing the genius, and
improving the intellect ; the brightest fruits of a good
life may be reasonably anticipated ; for though worldly
wisdom may exist in the absence of virtue, the instances
are of very rare occurrence where virtue is found in a
heart occupied by selfish prejudices, and contracted by
sloth and habitual indolence.
In advancing through the different Degrees of
Masonry, your stock of information is progressively
increased, and the practice of virtue is enforced by a
reference to the symbols in which Masonic knowledge
lies imbedded. With this illustration in view, a
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X.
primary ceremony of the First Degree is, the in-
vestiture of the Apron, an unequivocal.symbol, which
accompanies every step of your progress. And lest
any misunderstanding should give an improper bias to
the mind respecting its moral application, the candi-.
date is told that it is an emblem of innocence, of high
antiquity and unequalled honour.
The great design of the Apron is to point out a
figurative division of the human body into two distinct
parts; separating the noble portion which contains the
head and the heart, as the seat of reason and the affec-
tions, from the more base and corporeal. parts, which
are merely intended to perform the carnal functions of
nature ; and while the spiritual man stands erect and
open to the view, the natural man is veiled in ob~curity~
that no impediment may interrupt the speculative avo-
cations and pursuits of Masonry. . The Freemason
thus clothed is a striking emblem of truth, innocence,
and integrity ; for the parts only which are the conser-
vators of these virtues are supposed to be in operation,
while exploring the hidden mysteries of the science, in
the tiled recesses of the Lodge.
Hence the Apron or Girdle, in ancient times was
an universally received emblem of Truth and Passive
Duty. The Israelites, when preparing to effect their
escape from Egyptian captivity, were enjoined to eat the
Passover with their loins girded.• Job is commanded
* Exodus xii, U.
0
Digitized by Coogle
194 LECTURE X.
to gird up his loins like a man,• when the Almighty
is about to reward his patience and constancy. At
the consecration of Aaron, he is invested with this
symbolical article of apparel.t And ·the prophets, on
all occasions, before they performed any remarkable
act of duty, carefully complied with this important
ceremony.+ When Samuel was received into the mi-
nistry, though but a child, he was girded with a linen
ephod.§ David, in the height of his exultation on the
recovery of the Ark, danced before it, invested with
the same garment.ll Elijah the Tishbite and John
the Baptist, w~re both girded with an Apron of (white)
leather.~ It was said of Jesus Christ, that his Girdle
should represent equally Righteousness and Fidelity...
And in conformity with these authorities his principal
disciples exhorted the Christian converts to gird up
the loins oftheir mind, to be sober, and hope to the
end ;tt and to stand firm in the faith, having their
loins girt about with Truth.tt
Amongst the primitive Masons, this badge received
a characteristic distinction from its peculj.ar colour
and material ; and was indeed an unequivocal mark
of superior dignity. The investiture of the Apron
formed an essential part of the ceremony of initiation,
and was attended with rites equally significant and
* xxxviii. 3.-xl. 7. t Leviticus viii. 7,
+ 2 Kings iv. 29.-ix. I.-Jeremiah i.l7. § 1 Samuel ii. 18.
II 2 Samuel vi. 14. 1T 2 Kings i. 8.-Matt. ill. 4.
** Isaiah xi. 5. tt 1 Peter i. 13. ++Ephesians vi. a.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X. 195
impressive. With the Essenian Masons, it was accom-
.plished by a process bearing a similar tendency, and
accompanied by illustrations not less imposipg and
satisfactory to the newly initiated enquirer. He was
clothed in a long WHITE robe, which reached to the
ground, bordered with a fringe of blue ribbon• to in-
cite personal holiness ; and fastened tightly round the
waist with a girdle or zone, to separate the heart from
the lower and more impure parts of the body. With
feet hare and head uncovered, he was considered a per-
sonification of modesty, humility, and the fear of God.
It was the firm opinion of the Essenes, that internal
purity and rectitude of conduct, were most strikingly
evidenced by a person's outward appearance. This
belief was probably derived from that famous precept
of king Solomon, who had constantly the same em-
blematical reference on his lips ; " Let thy garments
he olwatgs WHITE.''t . At his investiture the candidate
was exhorted to the practice of moral virtue from the
incentive, not merely of happiness in this world, but
of an expected recompense in a future state. This e:x:..
hortation, enforced by the resistless efficacy of good ex-
ample, produced in the initiated, a practical righteous.
ness, whieh was " worthy of admiration above aH
others that pretended to virtue; for they were, in their
manners and course of life, the very best of men."t '
*Numbers xv. 38, 39. t Eeclesiastea ix. s.
t Jos. Ant. I. xviii. c. t.
0~
Digitized by Coogle
L
)96 LECTURE X.
Their chief employment was to learn to rule and
govern their passions, to keep a tongue of good report,
and to practise secrecy united with universal charity
and benevolence. Hence their deviations from moral
rectitude were not frequent. But if an instance did
.occur, in which the purity of the White Garment was
sullied by intemperance or excess, the offender was
formally excluded from all social intercourse with his
former brethren, and declared unworthy of the Robe
which he had disgraced by violated vows and shameless
profligacy. This exclusion was considered a punish-.
ment of. such a dreadful nature, that Josephus says,
it was commonly followed by a lamentable death.•
Thus also in the institutions of heathen nations, th&
aspirant was honoured with a similar investiture; and
shared in all the benefits and privileges which were
accessible to the wearer of this widely celebrated badge
of innocence. The garments of initiation were uni-.
fonnly White, and they bore a common reference to
innocence of conduct and purity of heart. When a
candidate was initiated into the ancient mysteries, he
was esteemed regenerate ; for these institutions were
the sole vehicles of regeneration amongst idolaters ;.
and he was invested with a White Garment and Apron,
as a symbol of his newly attained purity. White
victims were offered in sacrifice to the gods ; for the
heathens were of opinion, that they could do nothing
* Jos. de bel. Jud. I. ii. c. I.
Digitized by Coogle
I.ECTURE X. 197
more agreeable to the Supreme Being, than to serve
him in White. But as for the infernal deities, they
imagined them to be wicked to the last degree, and to
take pleasure in the misfortunes of mankind ; and as
they lived in everl~ting Darkness;· they must doubt-
less be of a sad and gloomy complexion ; so they paid
them such adoration as they imagined suitable to their
tempers ; and for that purpose clothed themselves in
BLACK.•
Amongst the Greeks, the garment of initiation was
:white, because, says Cicero, white is a colour most
acceptable to the gods. This Robe was accounted
sacred, and a never-failing source of protection in
every emergency. As an invaluable relic, it was used
by the fortunate possessor until resolved to rags ; and
when no longer fit for use, his children were invested
with the tattered remnants, as undoubted preservatives
against the malign effects of all diseases to which they
were by nature exposed.t
ln Persia, the investiture was exceedingly splendid,
and succeeded to the communication of Light. · The
candidate after having entered into the usual engage-
ments for keeping secret the mysteries of Mithras, was
ceremonially invested with the insignia of the Order ;
the Girdle, on which were depicted the Twelve Signs
of the Zodiac, with a golden Leo in the centre ; the
Tiara, or lofty crown,:): the White Apron, and the
* Disaert. on ReJ. 'Vorship, p. 6. t Varro.I. vi.
:;: Vid. Ezekiel xxiii. IS.
Digitized by Coogle
198 LECTURE X.
Purple Tunic. The latter being thickly studded with
stars of burnished gold, and flowing loosely from his
shoulders, gave a splendid appearance to the initiated,
and conferred an unequivocal mark of the distinction
which he had just attained. He was now passed
through the sacred petne as a general purgation from
all his former defilements ; and installed by proclama..
tion, a Lion of Mithras. A sort of baptism was ad-
ministered to him, which referred to that universal
lustration by which the world was washed from its
pollutions at the deluge ,; and was consequently ex-
pressive of his newly acquired purity. symbolised by
the renovated earth emerging from the transparent
bosom of the purifying wave.• A Crosier or Pastoral
StafF was given, and a Crown presented to him on the
}>oint of a sword, bearing this inscription, Mithras is
my Crown. And as a concluding ceremony, he was
investtld with the sacred Cros1, which being a symbol
of the Ark, was " a badge of innocence on the one
hand, and of life on the other."t
In·Hindustan, the aspirant, with similar ceremonies,
was solemnly invested with the consecrated Sash or
Girdle, which being inserted over his left shoulder,
descended on the right side, and hung as low as the
extremity of the fingers could reach. This Girdle he
was directed to wear next his skin. It consisted of a
cord composed of three times three threads twisted
* Vid. 1 Peter ill. 20, 21.
t Faber's Mys. Cab.-Hyde de rei. vet. Pers.-Bryant's Anai.-Faber's
Pag. ldol.-Dow's Hind.-~utir. &c.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X. 199
together, and fastened at the end with a knot. It was
manufactured with many mysterious ceremonies, and
said ~ possess the power of preserving the wearer
from personal danger. The Arch Brahmin, with
solemn dignity, then presented the candidate with the
consecrated Chaplet, endowed with the virtue of neu-
tralizing the evil machinations of malignant dremons.
This charmed wreath was compo~ed of magical herbs,
particularly the cusa and darbhha, gathered under
some fortunate aspect of the planets. It possessed
also a most wonderful sanative power; and was an
antidote against the poison of serpents. He was also
invested with the Kowsteke-Men, which was a magical
Jewel, to be worn on the breast; streaming with ray1
ofLight in the midst ofdarkness, and endowed with
the secret properties of averting calamities. And as a
last, invaluable present, a charmed label was firmly
bound on his left arm, in which the most powerful
talismanic words were inscribed. This amulet was
believed to endow the fortunate possessor with wisdom,
strength, beauty, health, and riches; and from its
influence, every private suggestion of the heart was
gratified, by the immediate agency of the god to whom
it was consecrated.•
Proceeding in our course still farther to the East,
we find the Japanese using rites and ceremonies cor-
• Asiat. Res.-Sir W. Jones's Works.-Maurice's Ind. Ant.-Faber's
Pag. Idol. and Myst. Cab.-Bryant's Anal.-Moor's Hind. Panth.
o,g,tizedbyGoogle ,
200 LECTURE X.
responding essentially with those already specified.
The initiations were performed with the utmost secrecy.
All probationers were carefully excluded, though their
unanimous consent was necessary before the ceremo-
nies could legally commence. The candidate was then
strictly examined ; his bodily purity was rigidly inves-
tigated ; and his mental perfections ascertained by a
philosophical scrutiny. If approved, he was clothed
in the Garments of ceremony, which consisted of a
loose tunic and White Apron bound round the loins
with a zone or girdle, and initiated ceremonially into
the two first degrees. When pronounced competent
to receive the last and highest dignity of the Order,
it was conferred with solemn pomp, and concluded by
a public festival.•
In the extreme West, we are at no loss to find these
rites existing in their full vigour. The mysteries of
Scandinavia were exclusively of a military cast, and
therefore we find a shield substituted for the apron ;
but its colour and emblematical reference were the
same with the civil decoration of other more peaceable
nations. Immediately after the obligation, which was
sealed by drinking mead out of a human skull, the
candidate was invested with a sword and shield. This
piece of defensive armour was White, and termed
., the shield of expectation." A specific period was
assigned .for his probation ; and if he failed to dis-
- - ---- - -- -r - ------~- - --- ----
* Krempfer's .Japan.- Univl·rsc Displayed.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X. 201
tinguish himself in battle before the expiration of his
noviciate, the phrase Niding was applied to him,
equivalent to '·'a gvod-for-nothing fellow ;"• and he
was studiously shunned hy all his former associates.
This however, did not often happen. When he had
performed any distinguished martial achieYement, he
was permitted to have a design painted or engraven on
his shield, as a public testimony of his prowess ; and
was solemnly invested \\ith the insignia of the Order,
declared equal to the toil of combat, and left by his
parents to the independent gratification of hunting and
providing for his own subsistence.t
And lastly, in our own country, the Druids were
not behind other nations in the use of emblematical
garments, which were of different colours, appropri-
ately adapted to the nature of each Degree. • In the
first degree, the aspirant was clad in a Robe, striped
alternately with the three sacred colours of Druidism,
white, sky-blue, and green. "\\'nite, was the symbol
of Light ; Blue, of Truth ; and Green, of Hope ; all
highly figurative of the expected attainments which
the eager novice anxiously anticipated. When the
rites of initiation into this degree were completed, the
striped robe was exchanged for a vestment of Green.
In the second degree he was clothed in Blue ; and
having fearlessly surmounted all the difficulties and
* l\lal. North. Ant. Tol. i. p. 218.
t Mallet's North. Ant.-The Eddas of Snorro and Saemund.-Runic
Odes, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X.
actual dangers of the third, or degree of perfection,
the aspirant was received triumphantly on May-day,.
by the Archdruid and his companions, who invested
him with a red tiara, and a flowing robe of the purest
White, ornamented with amulets and gems of gold, as
badges of the highest order that could be conferred ;•
for none were admitted to the honour of this clothing,
but such as were deemed ahsolu,tely cleansedfrom all
impurities both of body and mind, which could only be
eftected by the process of' initiation.t
Such, in all nations, has been the importance at-
tached to investitttre, as a significant completion of the
formula of initiation. To detail the ceremonies in use
amongst us, would be equally presumptuous and un-
necessary; I return therefore to the Masonic Apron
itself, and shall endeavour to illustrate its several pro-
perties, by considering their symbolical application.
The Apron is made of a Lamb's Skin; its colour,
WMte. These are understood amongst us as joint
emblems of Innocence; by which we are properly and
constantly reminded, that while clothed in that dis-
tinguishing badge, our conduct should be uniformly
marked by the corresponding duties of innocence and
• These ornaments consisted of chains of gold and amber beada, as
magical amulets; and many little gold, amber, and ivory trinkets, each
poeaeaaing some mystical property, or some protecting influence, which
conveyed a sacred character to the wearer, that rendered hia person
inviolate.
t Owen's Dict.-Davies's Druids.-Uorlaae'a ComwaU.-Maurice's Ind•
.Ant. vol. vi.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X. 203
integrity. The lamb was always esteemed an emblem of
the purest innocence ; and hence the Redeemer ofman·
kind received the significant appellation of " the Lamb
of God," because he was immaculate, and without spot
or blemish.• And the colour White,t as an unequiTO·
cal symbol of Light and Purity, has been honoured
and venerated in all ages, by every nation and every
people since the creation of light out of darkness.
Even the primitive christians adopted a custom so uni.
versally prevalent, so consonant with reason, sanctioned
by the usage of all antiquity, and. authorized by the
solemn ordinances of a religion which .had been insti.
tuted by the Deity himself; for not only did the Jewish
Prophets symbolize purity+ and impeccability§ by this
colour ; but the spotless Author of our religion is said
to have been clad in raiment White as Light at his
transfiguration,ll and White as snow after 'bis resur.
*John i. 29.-1 Peter i. 19.
t A white robe, emblematic of truth and holiness, was the distinguishing
dress of a Druid. The exterior ceremonies of a system must appear to
strangers as the most prominent part of it; thus ancient authors, occul.ou-
ally touching on bardism, have chiefly recognized the Druid observing
eome of his most superficial trappings, and now and then some faint glim-
mering& of the groundwork of hie principles. But the Bardie system is
attested to have kept extremely clear from superstition; and what little it
did aequire, must have adhered wholly to the Druidic character; for he
being the residentiary pastor amongst the people, would, from interest and
policy, endeavour tl> gain influence amongst those under his care; but he
must have exerted JllUCh caution, as the whole of his principles were uni-
versally diffused in the Gorsezau.-Owen'a Diet. v. Den.og•.
~Daniel xi. 35.-xii. 10. S Isaiah i. 18. II Matthew xvii. 2.
Digitized by Coogle
204 LECTURE X.
rection.• And the angelic messenger who appeared to
the holy women at the sepulchre, was invested with a
garment of the same colour.t Many years after this,
the divinity condescended to promise that every chris-
tian·who should overcome the temptations of the world,
should be rewarded with a WHITE STONE,+ as an un-
deniable passport into the paradise of God. In are-
gion blest with everlasting perfection, this colour
receives its final and most exalted mark of distinction.
The glorified inheritors of those heavenly mansions,
after being washed and purffied in the blood of the
LAMB,§ shall be clothed in White Raiment,ll ride on
White horses,, and be seated on White thrones•• for
ever and ever.
Supported and encouraged by these animating au-
thorities, the early followers of Jesus Christ, invested
the catechumens with a White Robe, like that worn by
the heavenly vision which encouraged Judas Maccabeus
to purge his country of its impurities,tt accompanied
by this solemn charge ; " Receive the White and un-
defiled Garment, and produce it without spot before
the tribunal of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you may
obtain eternal life."++ In like manner Freemasons,
when they invest a candidate with this distinguishing
• Matthew xxviii. 3. t Mark xvi. S. l Revelations ii. 17.
§ Revelations vii. J.t.. II Ibid iii. 5.-vi. 11. 1!1 Ibid xix. }4..
**Ibid iii. 21 compared with xx. 11. tt 2 Maccabees xi. 8.
l:J: Star in the Ea&t, p. 154-.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X.
badge of their profession, tell him that it is the most
exalted dignity that can be conferred ; and exhort
him not to disgrace it by actions which may reflect
discredit on the Order into which he has had the honour
to be admitted.
The Masonic Apron is said to be more ancient than
the badge of any other honourable institution.. It was
used before the Greeks or Romans had a name. The
Argonautic expedition is now generally believed to be
only·a figurative account of the Deluge ; and the Apron
is unquestionably more ancient than that event ; it was
therefore worn before the establishment of ·the idola-
trous mysteries. We are certain, from undeniable
authority, that the Apron was the first species of
clothing with which .mankind were acquainted, and
was adopted before the expulsion of our great pro-
genitors from the garden of Eden. When they had
violated the original compact, their eyes were opened
to a sense of guilt and shame, and they saw that they
were naked. Decency suggested the necessary expe-
dient of covering themselves with Aprons.•
The Apron worn by -the Levitical Priesthood, was
composed of the three Masonic colours, blue, purple,
and crimson.t And all the ancient statues ofthe heathen
gods, which have been discovered in Egypt or Greece,
Persia, Hindustan, or America, are uniformly deco-
* Gene~s iii. 1. t Exodus xxxix. 1,
Digitized by Coogle
206 LECTURE X.
rated with superb Aprons.• Hence is deduced the
antiquity of this article of apparel.
It is further declared to be "more honourable, &c."
The Apron appears ro have been, in ancient times, an
honorary badge ofdistinction. In the Jewish economy,
none but the superior orders of the priesthood were
permitted to adorn-themselves with ornamental Girdles,
which were made of blue, purple, and crimson, deco-
rated with gold upon a ground of fine white linen ;t
while the inferior priest wore only plain white. The
Indian, the Persian, the Jewish, the Ethiopian, and
the Egyptian Aprons, though equally superb, all bore
a character distinct from each other. Some were plain
white, others striped with blue, purple, and crimson ;
some were of wrought gold, others adorned and de-
corated with superb tassels and fringes.+ In a word,
though the principal honour of the Apron may consist
in its reference to innocence of conduct and purity of
heart, yet it certainly appears, through all ages, to have
been a most exalted badge of distinction. In primitive
times it was rather an ecclesiastical tha:n a civil deco-
ration, although in some caseg the Apron was elevated
to great superiority as a national trophy. The Royal
Standard of Persia, (Durufsh-e-Kawanee,) was on-
-------- ---·--------------------- -
* Vid. the Plates to Belzoni's Operations and Discoveries in Egypt-
Humboldt's Researches in America, vol. i. p. 133; &c.
t Exodus xxvili. s. t Vid. Belzoni, ut supra.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE X. 207
ginally an Apron in form and dimensions.• At this
day it is connected with ecclesiastical honours ; for the
chief dignitaries of the Christian Church; wherever a
legitimate establishment, with the necessary degrees· of
rank and subordination is formed, are invested with
Aprons, as a peculiar badge of distinction; which is
a collateral proof of the fact, that Masonry was origi-
nally incorporated with the various systems of divine
worship used by every people in the ancient world.
Masonry retains the symbol or shadow, it cannot have
renounced the reality or substance.
To vou, Brethren, who are clothed in this exalted
.,
badge, I need not recommend a systematic adherence
to the virtues which it represents. At your initiation
you were taught that innocence of conduct and purity
of heart, were expected to be your peculiar charac-
teristics from the moment of your investiture with tho
Apron. Is it necessary for me to add that Masonry
expects from you an obedience to her precepts, if you
are ambitious to share in her peculiar benefits? If
any one of you should fail to become a peifect Ma~.ter
in the mysteries' of Masonry, (which is the lot of but
few,) you still cannot be at a loss to understand the
value of her moral precepts ;-if you cannot fathom
her deep and abstruse secrets, you may practise the
benevolence and good will, the innocence and purity,
which she recommends. It is not expected that every
*Malcolm's Hist. P~>r. vol. i. p. 174.
Digitized by Coogle
208 LECTURE X;
Mason should be perfectly versed in all her occult
mysteries, but it is imperiously required that he prac~
tise the great and prominent virtues of Faith, Hope,-
and Charity, Temperance, Fortitude, Prudence, and
Justice ; that he may attain the reputation of a good
and worthy Mason upon earth, and the reward of it in
another and a better world. This is the perfection of
the system. Your Faith and Hope must be made per-
fect by Charity, or all your attainments will be nothing.
You may speak with the tongues of men and angels ;
you may have all wisdom and knowledge, but if your
Masonry, though founded on Faith and Hope, be not
animated by Charity, it is only a worthless skeleton,
and adds no brilliancy to your moral reputation.
While your body then, is girded with the Masonic
Apron, let ·your so-ql .be clothed with innocence ; let
your thoughts be pure, your desires holy, your wishes
sanctified ; assured that health and true ·pleasure de~
pend solely on temperance; and that.the privations of .
abstinence bear no proportion to the pain and misery:
arising from sloth, voluptuousness, or habitual intoxi-
cation.
Digitized by Coogle
209
LECTURE XI.
ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE I.ODOE.
«Order ia heaven's first law, and this confest,
Some are, and mast be, greater than the rest."
Pope.
IN the article of government and discipline, Masonry
stands high. We find in the earliest times, that all
government was threefold; though until the time of the
Jewish dispensation, the high offices of King, Priest,
and Prophet, were united in one person. In Masonry
however a distinction was made much earlier ; for at
the Hood Noah, Shem, and Japheth, were the presiding
Officers of our Order ; and the same disposition has
continued unaltered and unimpaired down to the pre-
sent day.
The Wisdom, the Strength, and the Beauty, of this
arrangement may be estimated, by considering that a
similar form of government was dictated by the divinity
for the observance of the Jewish and Christian
..
Churches ; the former being governed by the High
Priest, the Priests and Levites ; and the latter by
Bishops, Priests, and DeacQns.
p
Digitized by Coogle
210 LECTURE XI.
If we turn to the idolatrous mysteries, we find the
same Wivarying traces. of government, which were
doubtless derived from the mysteries of Noah, or in
other words, from the science of Freemasonry. In the
mysteries of Greece, the principal Officers were Three.
The chief person was the Hierophant, or revealer of
holy things ; the next in rank and importance was the
Daduchus, or Torch-Bearer, so named from t,he custody
of the Great and Sacred Lights, which were placed
under his superintending care; the duty of the third, de-
nominated Ceryx, was to proclaim, in a public manner,
the will and pleasure of the Hierophant. There was
also another important personage in these mysteries,
who, without any portion of supreme authority, WRI$
usually employed about the Altar, and called Oepiboma.
The three principal Officers were supposed to represent
the Sun, the Moon, and Mercury. The inferior
Officers appointed to superintend the less important
departments of the mysteries, and to assist the chief
governors in the execution of their respective duties,
werefour; and usually denominated Epimeletes.•
The principal directors or superintendents of the
Persian mysteries were also three in number ; the
Priest or Archimagus, the Archpresule, and the P:esulej
because the number three was esteeiiJ.ed perfect, and
included many extraordinary virtues ; and it is Sa.id in
the reputed Oracles of Zoroaster, "The mind of the
* Potter's .\reb. Grec. b. ii. c. iO.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XI. 211
Father decreed .that all things should be divided into
THREE."
We have already seen that the same arrangement
prevailed in Indio,• the chief Officer being placed in
the East to represent Brahms.; or the rising Sun; his
two colleagues in the West and South, representing
Vishnu and Siva, as the setting and meridian Sun.
The attendant Mystagogues clad in sacred vestments,
having their heads covered, each with a pyramidal cap,
emblematical of the spiral flame, or the .solar ray, were
seated around in respectful silence. Thus disposed in
solemn guise, the well known signal from the holy bell,
summoned the aspirant irito the centre of this august
assembly; and the initiation commenced with an anthem
to the great god of nature, whether as the Creator,
Preserver, or Destroyer.
The three superior orders of men under whose presi-
dency the Gothic mysteries were placed, called the
Drottes, the Scalds, and the Diviners, were believed
to possess many supernatural endowments, which in-
vested the mysteries with a distinguished celebrity, that
~ade every candidate for military fame anxious to par-
ticipate in their privileges.
The presiding oftlcers in the Druidical mysteries
were also three, and named Cadeiriaith, the Principal,
stationed in the East; Goronwy, who represented the
Moon, occupied a place in the West ; and Fleidwr
*Page 137.
Digitized by Coogle
212 I..BCTURE XI.
Flam, the meridian Sun, stationed in the South.
Other subordinate officers were necessary to the due
celebration of the mysteries. Amongst these were
principally Sywedydd the mystagogue, who assisted
the Archdruid in illustration ; and Ys yw wedydd, a
Revealer of Secrets, who communicated to the initiated
aspirant the mysterious tokens of the Order. The two
great Lights of heaven were of some importance in
these rites. The Sw1 was a symbol of the superior
god Hu, because he is the great source of Light, and
the Ruler of the day. The mild sovereign ofthe night
typified the supreme goddess Kyd or Ceridwen, in
whose sacred cauldron were involved all the mysteries
of this complicated superstition. In fact, " the Caul,..
dron" was a technical term comprising the entire
system, whether considered under the denomination
of doctrine or discipline, philosophy, legislation, or
morality, of which these mysteries were composedr
Hence, tlte Sun, the Moon, and Cadeiriaith or the
Archdruid, formed indispensable and constituent parts
of Druidism ; the two former as patrons, and the
latter as the authorized dispenser of the contents of
the sacred cauldron.
It may be wmecessary to enumerate any other
instances in detail; suffice it to say, that the govern..
ment of all the mysterious institutions known in the
world has been invariably the same.
The government of a Mason's Lodge in like manner
is vested in Three Superior Officers who are seated in
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XI. 213
the Ea.St, West, and South to represent the nsmg,
setting, and meridian Sun. They are distinguished
by significant Jewels which are highly embleniatical of
their respective duties ; and depicted by Three Lesser
Lights which symbolize the Sun, the Moon, and the
Master ; to intimate that as the Sun rules the day,
and the Moon the night with undeviating regularity,
so ought the Master to rule with equal precision; that
order and harmony may be as visibly displayed in a
Mason's Lodge, as in the uniform movements of the
celestial system. Hence we find that the Master's
authority in the Lodge, is despotic as the Sun in the
firmament, which was placed there by the Creator,
never to deviate from its accustomed course till the
declaration is promulgated that time shall be no more.
To this purpose, the old Regulations of Masonry
provide that " the Rulers and Governors, supreme and
subordinate of the ancient Lodge, are to he obeyed in
their respective stations by all the brethren, according
to the old charges and regulations, with all humility,
reverence, love, and alacrity." And in the same code,
directions are given to the brethren as follows: " You
are not to hold private Committees, or separate con-
versation, without leave from the master, nor to talk
of any thing impertinently or unseemly, nor interrupt
the Master or Wardens, or any other brother speaking
to the Master: nor behave yourself ludicrously or
jestingly while the Lodge is engaged in what is serious
and solemn; nor use any unbecoming language on any
Digitized by Coogle
214 LECTURE XI.
pretence whatsoever; hut to pay due reverence to !JOU/r
Master, Wardens, aml Fellows, and put them to
worship."
Towards the well governing of a Lodge of Masons,
I would recommend moderation in the superior Offi.
cers, and subordination in the Brethren ; for without
mutual good-will, equanimity of temper, and reciprocal
forbearance, the superstructure will crumble to decay,
and the Lodge, sooner or later, be inevitably dissolved.
Be scrupulously cautious in the choice of candidates ;
for the admission of one improper person may bring
discredit on Masonry, cause confusion amongst bra.
thren, introduce disputes and needless controversies
into the Lodge, and finally banish from your Society
many worthy and excellent associates. Let none be
initiated into Masonry but those who are literally
" good men ~d true, free born, and of mature and
discreet age, no bondmen, no immoral or scandalous
men, but of good report." Let the requisitions of the
Grand Lodge on this point be stri~tly adhered to.
Mr. Hutchinson very judiciously says, " The princi.
pies which alone should attend a candidate for initia-
tion into our society, are pathetically represented in
the fifteenth Psalm."• I subjoin for your considera-
* Sp. of Mas. p. 192. Ed. 117S.
PSALM XV.
1 Lord, who ahall dwell in thy tabernacle ; or who shall rest upon thy
holy hill?
· i Even he, that leadeth an uneorrupt life : and doeth the thing which ia
right, and apeaketh the truth from bia ~eart.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XI. 215
tion, the judicious remarks of Brother Noorthouck on
this important subject, as worthy of being written in
letters of gold.
" It is to be lamented that the indulgence subjoin.ed
to this wholesome injunction. (no Lodge shall ever
make a Mason without due enquiry into his character)
should weaken the regard seriously due to it ; for as
no man will build his house upon a bog or a quicksand,
a man of suspicious integrity will be found equally
unfit to sustain the character of a true Mason: and if
some corresponding regard to worldly circumstances
were included, it would operate more for the welfare
and credit of the Society.-Charity is a leading feature
in the Masonic character; we deem ourselves bound
to assist a distressed brother to the utmost of our
power ; but surely this humane obligation does not
extend to receiving men amongst us, whose imprudence
and precarious circumstances obviously tend to reduce
them to be objects of charity. Nothing is more com-
mon than for giddy young men just entering into life,
to join the society with the mere sinister view of ex-
tending their connections : such men dissipate their.
3 He that hath used no deceit in his tongue, nor done evil to his neigh-
bour: and hath not slandered his neighbour.
4 He that setteth not by himself, but is lowly in his own eyes: and
maketh much of them that fear the Lord.
li He that sweareth unto his neighbour, and disappointeth him not:
though it were to his own hindrance.
6 He that hath not given his money upon usury : nor taken reward
against the innocent.
7 Whoso doeth these things shall never fall.
Digitized by Coogle
216 LBCTURB XI.
time, money, and attention, in running about from one
Lodge to another, where they rather aim to distinguish
themselves in the licentious character of jolly com·
panions, than in the.more discreet one of steady, good
Masons ; and finally close their Masonic ca;reer by
loading the table in the Committee Room with peti.
tions for charityr The number of these applications
reduces our benefactions to such scanty portions, that
instead of being of effectual service in extricating men
from the occasional difficulties of life, they seldom
amount to more than the instant supply of pressing
necessities, without reaching the cause of those neces.
sities ; whereas, were the brethren,more select, fewer
distresses would come before them, those which did
~ome would be more deserving of relief, and might
obtain it from a more liberal hand.
" Once more ; the fraternity of Masons being every
where distinguished by their kind reception and friendly
assistance of strange brethren on journies, or, on their
arrival to settle among them, gives rise to another
abuse, teeming with evil effects. A man on the point of
removing to a distant country, recollects that the certi-
ficate of being a Mason, will be a convenient general
letter of recommendation. He accordingly gets him-
self proposed through a second, third, or fourth hand,
and must be hurried through all the degrees in one
evening, because be is to set off early the next morning.
Thus, by trusting to a vague recommendation, a Lodge
prostitutes the institution for a paltry fee ; vests an
Digitized by Coogle
l-ECTURE XI. 217
utter stranger with a character be knows nothing of,
and furnishes him with a credential, empowering him,
should be be basely disposed, to abuse· the generous
confidence of the brethren wherever he goes ; to the
injury of worthy men who may qfterwards travel the
same road."•
As a fundamental recommendation, let both Officers
and Brethren be, on all occasions, strictly observant of
the immutable Rules of Masonry, and the ordinances
of the Grand Lodge. Without ari uniform attention
to discipline, no society can expect to be permanently
successful ; and discipline can only be supported in all
its beauty, and all its efficacy, by pursuing, in an un-
deviating course, that line of conduct marked out by
the wisdom of our superior governors ; and laid down,
in broad characters, in the Book of Constitutions.
Subordination to lawfully constituted powers is the law
of nature. It may be traced in every civil institution
which divine or human wisdom has established for t:tie
common good of man. The primitive patriarch was
the legitimate head of his fann1y; and he officiated,
by divine command~ as king and priest. Every na-
tional scheme of government is invigorated with a
supreme ruler, either elective or hereditary, to whose
authority all.the members are necessaJi.ly subordinate.
In domestic life, children are placed by nature under
the control.of their p3.l'ents; the brethren of the Lodge
* Noorth. Const. p. 893, note.
Digitized by Coogle
218 LECTURE XI.
in like manner, are under the domination of its Master;
who, in his turn, though supreme in his own Lodge,
is amenable to the Grand Lodge for every undue and
improper exertion of power. The laws and ordinances
promulgated by the Grand Lodge, being the source and
fountain of our protection, are entitled to the utmost
reverence and · respect from every denomination of
Masons. " A Lodge is a place where Masons assem-
ble and work ; hence an assembly, or duly organized
society of Masons, is called a Lodge: and every brother
ought to belong to one, and ought .to be subject to its
bye-laws, and the general regulations. All the tools in
working shall be approved by the Grand Lodge, &c."*
There are many minor points necessary to be ob-
served towards ruling and governing a Lodge of Masons
with complete success. The Master and Officers
should always be punctual in their attendance, and
observe the hour of meeting with scrupulous exactness;
for correct conduct in Officers will invariably produce
a corresponding accuracy in the brethren. I know
nothing which tends more to disgust and sour the mind
than the unprofitable employment of waiting impatiently
for the attendance of the superior Officers, with a pro-
bable expectation of being disappointed at last. If
there be not an absolute certainty that the Lodge will
be opened at the proper hour, it must be expected that
the members will visibly relax in point of punctuality,
«· Ancient Charge.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XI. 219
and in the end fall away altogether. If the system is.
to be kept vigorous and healthy; activity and address,
perseverance and energy are required on the part of its
principal functionaries; for if once they allow the body,
of which they are the hea4, to become lax and feeble;
decay and dissolution are the inevitable consequences.
Let the three superior Officers diligently and conscien-
tiously perform their duty, ·and then there will be little
fear of irregularity or defection on the part of the
inferior members.
The same policy will dictate the impropriety of ex-
ceeding the prescribed time of closing the Lodge.
Late hours are always objectionable, but they are more
particularly so when applied to Masonry. The insti-
tution being founded in secrecy, a natural prejudice
arises and is cherished in the bosom of our families,
which can be softened and nullified only by early hours
and correct conduct in all our Masonic transactions.
But bow are those suspicious prejudices nourished by
an untimely return to our homes, after a meeting,
protracted perhaps by intemperate discussions, in·which
hostile and unbrotherly passions have prevailed, wholly
dissonant with the benign principles of the order we
professedly meet to illustrate and enforce. The usual
routine of business may always be performed within
the proper limits. And I would recommend to all
Masters, never so far to lose sight of the best interests
of Masonry, as to suffer any cause to interfere with the
judicious regulations enforced in the Bye-Laws respect-
Digitized by Coogle
LECTl'ltE XI.
ing the very important duty of closing the Lodge·at·
the prescribed hour. This is of vital consequence to
the reputation of the craft; for, as a body of Masons,
we ought assiduously to cultivate, by strict regularity
and decorum in our proceedings, the commendation of
the worthy and the good amongst whom we live. The
public have no·cognizance of what passes in the tyled
recesses of the Lodge, except through the indiscretion
of unworthy brethren ; but the hour of departure is .
most carefully marked ; and if it be uniformly pro-
tracted beyond a seasona\¥e time of night, the character
of Masonry will suffer a depreciation commensurate
with the imprudence of the erring brethren. And this
is wholly chargeable on the Master, for it is to him
alone that the hour of dismission is entrusted. If he
be weak enough to allow the brethren a latitude in this
point, he betrays the interests committed to his charge,
and is unworthy to retain a distinguished office in this
ancient and honourable fraternity.
Let the Master be very cautious about expulsions.
If a brother grossly misconduct himself, let him be
admonished privately ; try every gentle means to con-
vince him of his errors ; probe the wound with a
delicate hand, and use every mild expedient to work
his reform. Perhaps he may save his brother, and
give to society a renewed and valuable member. lf
this fail of its effect, and he remain incorrigible, the
Master will grieve to use stronger means ; but rather
than the reputation of Masonry should suffer, these
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XI. 221
must be resorted to : and at the final extremity of
expulsion, let him show his brother, when he is bidding
him a last farewell in that character, that it is for the
benefit of the order alone, and not from any vindictive
motive of private resentment, that the ultimate measure
has been determined on, by the deliberate and unani-
mous sentence of the whole Lodge.
One other caution I would offer, against a practice
teeming with fatal consequences. Let the Master of
a Lodge, discourage, on all occasions, that itching pro-
pensity which incites a brother to make motions on
indifferent or trifling subjects. Any motion, on which
the Lodge is divided, must be to a certain extent in-
jurious, amongst so many various habits, views, and
propensities, as usually constitute a Lodge of Masons :
but there are times and subjects when this is unavoida-
ble, and if circumscribed within the proper limits, the
evil effects may be counteracted by policy; but if a
Master once gives way to a habit of debate ; and
members, fond of displaying their rhetorical powers,
meet with encouragement from the chair, the growing
evil carries ruin in its train ; division disunites the
brethren; parties are formed by a systematic canvass
to carry improper motions into effect, and distrust are
the mildest consequences to be expected ; for every
division leaves a certain portion of the members dis-
contented ; in the warmth of debate, strong and ob-
jectionable phrases and reflections may be indiscreetly
used, which leave a thorn rankling in the bosom of
those at whom they are levelled ; and in the end, the
Digitized by Coogle
LECTUR~ XI.
minority are certain to relax in their attendance, if not
to withdraw themselves altogether from an institution
where their counsels are rejected and their opinions
treated with contempt.
Let not these hints be despised, or deemed useless
and impertinent. They are the result of long expe-
rience in the art ofgoverning a Lodge; which is a much
more difficult task than unskilful brethren are willing
to admit. Something more is necessary to constitute
a perfect Master than the mere competency to repeat
certain forms of opening, closing, qualifications, and
lectures. These, though absolutely essential, are but
the technical trappings ofa ruler in ~asonry. Sterling
good sense, accomplished manners, long experience, a
perfect knowledge of men and things, calmness and
command of temper, prudence and foresight added to
a graceful and natural flow of eloquence, are unitedly
necessary to form a governor of the Craft; and he who
assumes this high and most important office without
possessing the greater part of these essentials, is in
danger of exposing himself to the animadversion, if not
to the ridicule of his brethren.
I subjoin by way of Note, a few further observations on the important sub-
ject of the above Lecture. The posaesaion and exerciae of authority ia a
matter of honourable and proper ambition in every Brother who really prizes
the institution into which he has been initiated, and who wishes to render hia
Masonry productive of its legitimate fruits, the moral improvement of hia
mental faculties. It ia to be regretted, however, that thia ambition, 10
praiseworthy when exercised within its due bounds, ia too frequently in-
dulged, even to an unlimitted extent, by brethren who, though in other
~ worthy, do not poaea the requisite talent or industry to confer
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XI. 223
distinction. Or, in other words, the ambition is more frequently for the
office, than for the qualification to execute it with credit to themselves, or
benefit to the community over which they have been called on to preside.
If the superior officers of a Lodge be unacquainted with the principles of
the institution it can scarcely be expected to prosper. Should the Master
be ignorant of his work, the brethren will soon learn to despise his autho-
rity. To speak in the technical language of Masonry; if he be unpossessed
of the art of drawing designs, how are the Fellow Crafts to execute, or the
Apprentices to be instructed? In the discharge of his momentous duties,
he is expected to rule and govern his Lodge with the same precision and
effect as the sun rules the day, and the moon the night; else how can he
beconsistently classed with those two grand luminaries? Why is he stationed-
in the east, but because, as the east is a place of light, it is his duty to en-
lighten the understanding of his brethren? And how can he discharge this
paramount obligation, unless he himself is fully imbued with the true prin-
ciples of Light? To maintain his authority, the Master of a Lodge must
possess talent-moral virtue-and courtesy blended with firmness. He
must teach both by precept and example, Faith the most lively, Hope the
most pure, Charity the most unfeigned. He must inculcate Temperance
unmoved except by the delights of science; Fortitude unshaken alike by
prosperity and adversity; Prudence united with inflexible Justice; and he
is bound to instruct the brethren in the development of that mysterious and
important fact, that man was not created to promote the selfish purposes of
his own interest alone, but to use his best endeavours to advance the welfare
of others; and above all, to elucidate that leading secret of Freemasonry-
ihe_ absolute necessity of acquiring a practic:al knowledge of ourselves.
If, then, it be the Master's province to instruct others, he must be con-
scious that ignorance in himself is totally inexcusable. He cannot enforce
on the younger brethren the ne~ty of ruling and governing their pas-
sions-of keeping a tongue of good report-of practising all the duties of
morality and social order-unless he exhibit an example of these virtues in
his own person. If he be insincere, his praise of Truth will stand for
nothing; if he be not charitable, he cannot consistently recommend the
practice of relief; nor if he be factious, can he dilate, with any effect, on
the exercise of the most beautiful feature in the Masonic system, Brotherly
Love or Charity ; that glorious emanation of the Deity, divested of which,
Freemasonry would be unworthy of attention. Withcut these essential
9-ualifications, the Chair will be bereft of its influence; the Master's autho-
rity will be disregarded by the brethren; and disorder and disunion, though
delayed, will not be the less certain to ensue.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XII.
CONCLUSION OF THE COURSE.
- - - - VIRTUE thus
Sets forth and magnifies herself, thus feeds
A calm, a beautiful, a silent fire
From the incumbrances of mortal life,
F1om error-disappointment-nay from guilt,
And sometimes, so relenting Justice wills,
From palpable oppressions of despair."
Wordaworth.
HAVING now anived at the conclusion of my labours,
I flatter myself that the results of the whole investiga-
tion will be apparent an4 intelligible. The antiquity
of Freemasonry may be deduced from the similarity of
our rites to those of the mysteries ; and we can only
account for the resemblance which the ceremonies .and
doctrines of distant nations bear to each other, by sup-
posing that they were all derived from some great
primitive system which was practised when mankind
lived together as a single family. It is morally im-
possible on any other principle, that the same events,
perpetuated by the same ceremonies and symbols, and
the same secret system of communication, could subsist
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XU. 225
in nations so widely separated as to preclude all possi-
bility of intercourse between the inhabitants.
But the antiquity of these mysterious institutions
falls before the superior claims of Masonry, as the idols
of Memphis were precipitated from their pedestals at
the appearance of the infant Saviour.• The deductions
of reason produce.a result absolutely asserted in the
sacred volume, that all modes offalse worship emanated
from Shinar, where genuine Masonry was originally
practised by the descendants of Noah. The reasons of
that variety which diversified the practice of religion
amongst different nations may be reduced within a
very narrow compass. The apostacy began on these
extensive plains, and the seed of every new religion
was here scattered. Each ambi~ous and enterprising
individual, whoseabilities enabled him to collect a party,
would set off with his followers, east, or west, as his
inclinations might lead, and forming a colony at no
· great distance from the place of departure, would, as
its ostensible king and priest, deliver, ex cathedra, his
own speculative opinions on the subject of religion,
which would of course be adopted as the system of the
newly planted tribe. When the population of a colony
thus formed became too abundant for the settlement,
_ new migrations would take place, moving to a greater
distance from Shinar, each family under its respective
leader, whose religious tenets would doubtless possess
* Vid. A prophecy of this remarkable event in Isaiah xix. 1.
Q
Digitized by Coogle
226 LBOTURB XII.
some peculiarity. Thus the sentimentS of mankind as
they separated more widely from each other, would
diverge by insensible degrees from the true mode of
worship until at length, great nations would be formed
in every part of the world by the union of many small
tribes, as policy or conquest might prevail, each prac-
~ising a religion of its own, which, though differing
essentially from the rest of the.world, would still retain
many characteristic marks which unequivocally point
out a common derivation.
·The great and important truths which I have col~
lected in these Lectures, necessarily proceeded from a
system of theology more ancient, and were derived from
a source of greater purity than the mysteries in which
they were preserved. In point of fact they could
scarcely be obliterated, as they were fundamental prin-
ciples from which all religious obedience radiated, and
naturally refer to the patriarchal mode of worship in~
stituted by God himself, to preserve men from the
paths of error in this world, and to produce their eter~
nal salvation in the next. With this pure system of
truth our science .was coeval, and in these primitive
times was usually identified. But human reason was
too weak to retain just impressions of the sublime truths
revealed by the divinity, when that revelation was either
doubted or finally rejected ; and therefore, though the
vifi!ible symbols were retained in every mysterious in-
stitution which fiourished throughout the h~then
world, the true interpretation was entirely lost.
Digitized by Coogle
1.BC'I'UU xu. 2-27
The idolatrous mysteries, then, emanated from that
pure fountain ·of Light, which is now denominated
Freemasonry ; because they contain innumerable re..
ferences to some system more ancient than idolatry
itself, which could be nothing but an institution of un-
equivocal purity attached to the true and only accept-
able mode of paying divine worship to the supreme and
invisible God.
I rejoice however in the hope that I have accom..
plished a still more uselul object than merely proving
the antiquity of Freemasonry. I have drawn forth and
illustrated some of the moral beauties of our science,
which may shed a lustre over it in the estimation of the
uninitiated ; and also tend to make my brethren wiser
masons and better men. This has occupied my most
anxious attention, and if I have been unsuccessful, the
failure must not be attributed to a want ofdiligence and
assiduity in the pursuit to which some portion of my
leisure has been for many years devoted.
Before I take a final leave, however, I will offer a
few brief observations on some of the ceremonies,
emblems, and jewels, which have not been compre-
hended within the genera! design of these· Lectures ;
and by so doing I hope to famish an epitome of the
science, which, though wholly incomprehensible to the
uninitiated, may be useful to the young mason, while
grounding himself in the mysteries of symbolical
knowledge.
The institution of Freemasonry is founded on silence,
and the mind is instructed and improved by meditating
Q.Q
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XU.
on a variety of visible objects. They are all invested
with a moral reference, and read him a lecture by which
he is made a wiser and consequently a better man.
The true Mason, wherever he may be, finds himself
always surrounded by objects which forcibly draw his
attention to the science into which he has been ini-
tiated. If he survey the heavens, the' sun in his appa-
rent motion majestically rolling through the expanse;
the moon and the planets performing their accustomed
courses with order and regularity, the golden stars
thickly studded in the blue vault of liquid ether, all
are included in his system of Freemasonry, whence he
is directed by his speculation on the glorious works of
nature up to the Great First Ca~se, the bountiful
Creator of immeasurable space and all that it contains.
If he take a view of the productions of nature and art
on the face of the planet which we inhabit, the same
result follows.
All is Freemasonry, all is replete with the divine
principles of the Order. There is not a mountain or
valley; a tree, a shrub, or a blade of grass, there is
not a magnificent structure of polished marble rich in
the splendid decorations of gorgeous architecture, or a
refuse stone rejected from the quarry, there is not an
object, animate or inanimate in unh·ersal nature, but
it is instinct with the genius of Freemasonry ; and the
learned brother may find an instructive Masonic lecture
in the wing of a moth as well as in the motions of the
august lights of heaven.
As the Deity is the first and ~ost important object
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XII. 2'29
of our attention, I shall commence this interesting
disquisition with a few observations on the custom of
uncovering the ·feet and bending the knee while offer
ing up devotions to this august and beneficent Being~ .
In the early ages of the world, one important indi-
cation of pure worship consisted in taking offthe shoes
when about to enter a temple dedicated to God. This
custom was of very a{.cient observance, as we may infer
from the interview with which Moses was favoured at
the burning bush. The heathen nations used the same
method of expressing the humility of their devoti~n.
~ot only did the wise and judicious Pythagoras com-
mand his disciples to worship with bare feet,• as an
expressive symbol of humility and contrition of the
heart ; but even the grosser worship of the Greeks and
Romans enjoined the same practice. In public re-
ligious processions, the priests walked barefooted ; the
high-born Roman ladies did not dare to enter the
temple ofVesta with covered feet; and in Greece, the
female votaries walked barefooted in the processions
of Ceres. The same usage prevailed equally in India,
and the islands to the west of Europe ; and even the
American savages thought that uncovering the feet
while in the act of devotion, was a sublime method of
paying honour to the deity. Going barefoot, says
Killet,t was a sign of much sorrow ; assumed by David
to express his woeful expulsion from his own country
* Jambl. vit. Pyth. c. xxviii. t Tricren. p. 38.
Digitized by Coogle
230 L~B XU.
by his rebellious son ;• and distressed captives used
it in their bondage in another country.t
Allied to this reasonable practice, we find another
custom which appears to have been enforced in ancient
times. The devout worshipper was obliged to enter
his temple with the right foot placed .first over the
threshold; and Vitruvius, in merence to this cere-
mony, tells us, that the steps which lead to any
hallowed fane should be composed of an odd rmmber;
that the right foot, being used for the first step, might
necessarily first enter the building. ·
Genuflection, W&.$ used in the infancy of the world,
as an act of devout homage to God ; for it is in reality
a just expression of humility and reverence from a
created mortal to the Great Author of his existence.
Pliny says,+ that " in the knees of man there is reposed
a certain religious reverence, observed even in all the
nations of the world. For humble suppliants creep
and crouch to the knees of their superiors ; their knees
they touch, to their knees they reach forth their hands ;
their knees they worship and adore as religiously as
the very altars of the gods."
In the system of christianity, this custom is univer-
sally prevalent in obedience to the repeated injunctions
of Christ and his Apostles.§ Here it is described as
a proper and approved act of devotion ; and one of the
* i Samuel xv. 30. t Isaiah xx. 21 3, 4- +Nat. Hist. L xi. c. 4o5,
§ Luke xxii. 4-I.-Philippians ii. 10.-Romans xiv. U.-Bphesians iii.
a .-Acts ix. ~, &e. &c.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XII. l31
Father_s of the Church has conferred a still higher
character upon it. He says, "when we bow the
knee, it represents our fall in Adam ; and when we
rise, having received the benefit of prayer addressed
to the throne of grace, it is a type of our restoration in
.Christ by the grare of God, through whom we are able
to lift up our hearts to heaven." The candidate for
Masonry is directed to bend his knee with a similar
reference. He is in a state of intellectual darkness,
as far as regards the science into which he is about to
receive initiation. His mind unenlightened with the
bright ray_s of Masonic knowledge, bends before the
.divine illuminator, in the humble hope that his under-
standing may be opened and his mental faculties im-
proved by the process of initiation, commenced with a
devout supplication to, and a firm reliance on, that
Great Being whose favour alone can convey protection
and assistance in every difficulty and danger he may be
called on to sustain, as a trial of his patience, fortitude,
and zeal.
While thus engaged, he is placed with his face
towards the east. For this custom, Masonry affords
many substantial reasons. The ancients thought the
east peculiarly sacred, because the Sun, the source of
light and life, commenced his daily career in that
quarter.• The practice may perhaps be more correctly
* This elucidation, strictly speaking, may be erroneoll8; for iD reality
the east and west points are but imaginary, and stand on very doubtful
ground when compared with the daima of north and south ; for the north
Digitized by Coogle
~32 LECTURE XII.
deduced from some or all of the following considera-
tions, accounting those points for east and west, which
are commonly received in that acceptation. The camp
of Judea was placed by Moses in the east as a mark of
honorary distinction. The first public temple dedi-
cated to the exclusive service of God, was the Taber-
nacle of Moses, which was placed due east and west;
and in the east our holy religion was first promulgated
to mankind. This custom was not peculiar to any
nation or people, but was practised throughout the
world. The Egyptian and Mexican pyramids were
erected according to the four cardinal points; and the
idolaters usually built their temples due east and west,
that when a sacrifice was offered on the altar, the peo-
ple might conveniently direct their devotions to the
east and thus adore the rising Sun.• Virgil says,
Illi ad surgentem conversi lumina solem,
Dant frugea mauibU& sallaa.
En. xii. 173.
Christian Churches and Masonic Lodges are built
and south poles are the invariable' terms of that axis whereon the heavens
move; and are therefore incommunicable and fixed points, whereof the one
is not apprehensible in the other. But with the east and west it is quite
otherwise; for the revolution of the orbs being made upon the poles of
north and south, all other point& about the axis are mutable; and whereso-
ever therein the east point be determined, by succession of parts in one
revolution every point becomes the east. And so, if, where the Sun rises,
that point be termed the east; every habitation differing in longitude, will
have this point also different; inasmuch as the Sun successively rises unto
every one. Viq. more of this in Brown's Vulgar Errors, b. vi. c. 7.
* Vid. Ezekiel viii. 16.
Digitized by Coogle
Lt:CTURB Xtl. 233
due east and west, and the most holy place is in the
east. Tertullian informs us,• that the early christians
prayed with their faces turned to the east, in imitation
of a like practice observed by St. John the Evangelist.t
The reason assigned for it is, that when placed in this
posture, we should refiect on the creation of the world,
and the crucifixion of Christ ; because the garden of
Eden, an emblem of that celestial paradise which is
the object of all our hopes and wishes in this world,
was placed in the east; and Christ being crucified with
his face to the west; it follows, that when we turn to
the east, we behold, as it were, the Saviour suspended
on the cross, working out the salvation of sinners by
the sacrifice of himself. An opinion anciently pre-
vailed, founded perhaps on the sixty-eighth Psalm and
the thirty-third verse, that the visible glory of Christ
was situated in the eastern part of the heavens. The
passage as translated by the Seventy, runs thus, "Sing
unto God, who ascendeth above the heaven of heavens
on the east." It was indeed a. generally received
opinion ofthe early christians, that God was worshipped
towards the east, and Satan renounced towards the
west.+ When consigned to our last retreat, the corpse
is laid in the grave due east and west, with its feet to
the former quarter ; that at the resurrection the re-
novated man. may at once behold the bright vision of
* Apologet. c. xvi. t Prochor. vit. S. Job. c. v.
t Hierom. ad c. vi. Amos.-Damascen. de fid. Orth. 4. 13.-Jlion. Areop.
de bier, eccles. c. ii..&c. &c.
Digitized by Coogle
234 LBCTURB XII.
judgment; for we are certain, from the express decla-
ration of Christ himself, that at the last day he shall
appear in the east,• seated on the clouds of heaven
with power and great glory.t
Hence we deduce the propriety of the custom which
is used in many of our peculiar ceremonies. The can-
didate in each degree is placed with his face to the
east for the purpose of receiving instruction. During
the Lectures, the brethren necessarily face the east.
Should a brother desire to address the Lodge, he must
still turn towards the east; and even during our social
refreshments we uniformly observe the same practice.
For these united causes, I have been somewhat parti-
cular in enumerating a few of those reasons which in-
duced our ancient brethren to adopt a custom equally
rational and consistent with the primitive rites of
genuine religion.
It was an ancient custom to use Circumambulation
during the performance of religious ceremonies. In
Greece, while the sacrifice was in the act of consuming,
the priests and people walked in procession round the .
altar thrice, singing the sacred hymn, which was
divided into three parts, the Strophe, the Anti.$trophe,
and the Epode. While the first part was ehanted,
they circumambulated in a direction from east to west,
emblematical of the apparent motion of.the heavenly
bodies; at the commencement of the second part, they
* Matt. xx.iv. 27. t Jbid. xxiv. so.
Digitized by Coogle
LEC'roRE .XU. 235
changed their course and proceeded from west to east;
pointing out their real motion ; and during the perM
formance of the Epode, they remained stationary round
the altar, a symbol of the stability of the earth, waiting
for some propitious omen which might announce the
divine acceptan~ of the sacrifice.
In Britain the devotional exercises of the insular
sanctuary were conducted on a similar principle.
Ceremonial processions moved round it, regulated by
the mystical numbers, and observing the course of the
Sun ; somatimes moving slowly and with solemn gra-
vity, chanting the sacred hymn to Hu; at others, the
devotees advanced with great rapidity, using im~
sioned gestures, .and saluting each other with secret
signs. This was termed, " the mystical dance of the
Druids."* The circular movement was intended to
symbolize the motion of the earth, and to give an idea
of God's immensity which fills the universe.
The foundation stone of ·every magnificent edifice
was usually laid in the nrwth east ; which accounts in
a rational manner for the general disposition of a newly
initiated candidate when enlightened but uninstructed,
* Or the Deaaiul. " In the Highlands of Scotland," says Smith, (Gal.
Ant. p. ss.)'" women with child perform the DefJII'iul thrice round &ODle
claapela to proeure an easy delivery. Sick persona do the RaDle round some
eaima, to charm back health. The phrase. is still more used in conversa-
tion than the ceremony is in practice. If the milk or meat which a child
swallows, come but a little against the breath, ita nurse is immediately
alanoed lest it may go ttu~.'l, and pronouneea the wonl deas.'iul, to give it
the same direction. On numberleaa other occasion• this '!Word is used in
·the same manner."
Digitized by Coogle
236 LECTURE XII.
he is accounted to be in the most superficial part of
Masonry. This stone to which some portion of secret
Influence was formerly attributed, is directed in Alet's
Ritual to be " solid, angular, of about a foot square,
and laid in tlte north east."
Behold these instruments of labour, the Square, the
Compasses, and the Twenty-four Inch Rule. When
I hold up the Square, what virtues are presented to
your view I As an appendage to an operative mason,•
it is indeed used merely to try and adjust all irregular
angles, and to assist in bringing rude matter into due
form. But as a speculative mason'g jewel, it teaches
morality and justice; it shows the beauty of order and
sobriety, and displays the advantages arising from a
mutual communication of benefits. In a word, we are
instructed by this instrument, to act upon the square
with all mankind, by doing to others, as in similar
circumstances we would have them do to us. The
obvious use of the Compasses is for the formation of
plans and designs from which all noble works of art
are completed in their just and elegant proportions.
In Masonry however they have a reference to something
* Our excellent Brother Hutchinson says, " I am induced to believe the
name of ~v:cuon hsa its derivation from a language, in which it implies some
atrong indication, or distinction of the nature of the Society; and that it
baa not any relation to architects. The French word mai#on signifies a
family, or particular race of people. It aeems aa if the name was com-
pounded of Maw-l:wav, quero 1alwm; and the title of Masonry no more
than a corruption of MecrovpavEw, 8Um in medio coeli, or Mat"ovvoofl,
1igna creleatia, (Job xxxvili. 32.) which conjecture is strengthened by our
symbols."
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XU. 237
more than this. They admonish us to walk righteously
and soberly amongst our brethren ; to avoid every de-
gree of intemperance which may degrade the man into
the brute, and to render to every one his due, tribute
to whom tribute is due, fear to whom fear, honour to
whom honour. Lastly, the Twentyf'our Inclt Rule,
whose apparent use is merely to measure lines and
distances ; amongst Masons, refers more particularly
to the twenty-four hours of the day, and points out the
necessity of a regular distribution of Time, one portion
of which must be applied to labour, another to rest
and refreshment, and a third to prayer and meditation.
Thus that excellent monarch and Grand Master of
Masons, Alfred the Great, made a regular and judi-
cious appropriation of his hours, after he. had van•
quished all his enemies, and sat in :Peace on the throne
of his hereditary dominions. It is indeed of primary
consequence to ascertain the progress of time. Time
does not appear to move. Look at the hour index of
your watch. It stands still ; you cannot see the pro-
cess by which time is divided; and yet hour after hour
passes on ; the index still moves round, and is as ac-
tually advancing as if it were visible to your eye. In
like manner the Sun in the firmament measures days,
and weeks, and months, and years ; and yet, how
attentively soever it is observed, you have not the least
visible perception ~f its course. It rises in the east,
and you behold it in the purple morn ; it attains its
meridian in the south, still imperceptibly to the human
Digitized by Coogle
238 LBCI'URB m.
eye, and you know that half the day is gone. It moves
majestically towards the end of its daily course, and
when setting in the west, you perceive that you are
another day nearer to that event which must ultimately
close all your connections with this world, and introduce
you to another where the division of time will cease,
and an endless eternity be open to your view. Let
this consideration be the spur and incentive to virtuous
pursuits, that your admission into eternity may be
glorious, and full of peace and joy unspeakable.
Contemplate"the boundless extent ofa Mason's Lodge.
High as the heavens, deep as the central abyss, its right
hand stretching to the east, and its left to the utmost
limits of the west; what can all this signify? It points
to brethren in every clime, and companions diversified
with every tint of complexion, from the delicacy of
European beauty, to the swarthy blackness of the
African savage. It shows also the universal character
of Masonry, and the unbounded influence of its rules
and orders, and points out that comprehensive benevo-
lence and goodwill, which Masons usually display to-
wards their worthy brethren in distress. It is not
however by pecuniary bounty alone that the precept is
fulfilled, for this is not in every one's power. Acts of
kindness and commiseration may sometimes heal the
breaking heart; and these are within the reach of the
most indigent of our species. Benevolence and charity
must be .discriminative to be beneficial ; for relief to
the common vagrants who daily haunt our doors is
Digitized by Coogle
L'ICTURE XII.
charity misapplied, and only adds strength and per-
manency to vicious habits, which a firm and uniform
resistance of their claims might eifectually correct, and
even induce their return to virtue. The universal
benevolence of a Mason, recommended from a conside-
ration of the extent of his Lodge, consists f(enerally in
unaffected courtesy, and uniform affability and gentle-
ness of manners. These qualities will always convey
the mild feeling of brotherly love, and induce relief
and charity to every worthy and destitute object within
their reach. The pleasing effects of courtesy and
kindness can never fail. They will pour balm, and oil,
and wine, into the bleeding heart, and leave behind a
load of gratitude which can never be obliterated.
I will now call your attention to a Board with a few
lines, angles, and perpendiculars designed upon its
surface. This is the Tracing Board ; and though it
may appear rough and of little use, is yet an immove-
able jewel, and contains a lesson of inestimable value.
This board is for the Master to draw his plans on, for
the direction of his workmen; but its mystic reference
is to the great charter of our religious privileges,
which, in all our open Lodges is displayed on the
Master's Pedestal with its leaves unfolded as the visi-
ble standard of our Faith, subscribed with the hand of
the divinity ; the very ground and pillar of Truth.
You have now before you an unhewn block of marble,
rough as when taken from the quarry. This is another
immoveable jewel, which points to the infant mind,
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XU.
rough and uncultivated as this stone ; and as the
marble can alone be brought into a definite and useful
form by the skill and judicious management of the
expert workman ; so the mind can only be trained to
the practice of virtue by the sedulous care, and insi-
duous instruction of parents, guardians, and teachers.
Thus the ripening man becomes fitted for his station
iu society, and qualified to act his part with the appro-
bation of his fellow men. These reflections lead us to
contemplate this stone in another and a more perfect
form. It has been under the chissel of the expert
workman, and now assumes the shape of a true die
square, polished according to art, which can only be
tried by the nice application of the square and com-
pass. The mind of man, after its previous cultivation,
and progress through the chequered scenes of good and
evil with which this life abounds, is here represented.
He has attained a good old age, and his time has been
spent in acts of piety and devotion; the blessing of the
fatherless is upon him, and he has caused the widow's
heart to sing for joy. His soul therefore ripened f~r
glory, may be aptly compared to this superb stone, for
it can now only be tried by the square of God's holy
word, and the compass of his own conscience.
Cast your eyes downwards and contemplate the
pavement on which you tread. It is Mosaic, che-
quered with black and white, emblematical. of good
and evil fortune ; like the life of man, sometimes fa-
voured by prosperity, sometimes bending before the
Digitized by Coogle
LBCTURB XII. 241
blasts of adversity; now elevated on the billows ()f
hope, and now plunged in the depths ofdespair. 'This
is a most merciful dispensation of our All Wise Crea-
tor; for a continued course of prosperity would tend to
deprive a man of those ideas of dependence on a supe-
rior Being which are natural to him in his present
state of mortality; and thus forgetting his allegiance,
he might advance to atheism, and work for himself a
portion of misery and pain. Adversity prevents this
degeneracy, and places man in his proper situation, as
an inferior and dependent being. But perhaps you
will say, that afB.iction is so galling to the soul, and
comes upon us so suddenly, and with such tragical at-
tendants, that its uses can scarcely be pronounced
sweet and salutary. You are however mistaken. God
is the benignant author of unmingled good, and if he
brings adversity upon the soul, it is for some beneficial
purpose ; it serves to correct the exuberance of vice,
and to promote the operation of virtue; it reproves the
pernicious consequences of perpetual ease and comfort,
and prepares the mind for the return of smiling hap-
piness to cheer and relieve mankind while journeying
on the road to heaven. Take a retrospective view of
your past life, and you will find that in the article of
happiness and misery, the former has very largely
preponderated. If you have been sometimes hungry,
you have been more frequently full ; if you have been
sometimes in want, you have often enjoyedthe blessing
ofplenty; you have had some sickness, butmore health;
R
o,g,tized by Coogle
242 LECTURE XU.
a beloved child may have been snatched. from you un-
timely by the hand of death, but perhaps you h~ve
several surviving children who are a comfort to your
declining years. Besides, if you look round amongst
mankind, you will find great numbers whose a.tllictions
exceed the whole aggregate of yours in va.St proportion.
Let these considerations induce you to receive with the
cheerfulness of gratitude every calamity which may
befal you. Prosperity is but a fading flower ; and
tho\lgh to-day you have health, and friends, and
riches, and honours; to-morrow your friends may prove
false, your health may be changed into sickness, and
your riches and honours may vanish like a dream.
Such is man in every station of life, whether crowned
with a royal diadem, or enduring the lot of a scourged
slave. But the time will come when all will be on a
level ; death will destroy all distinctions, and the dust
of the rich and poor shall be blended in one indis-
criminate mass. The superiority of an after state will
be that of virtue. Let us then endeavour while on
this side the grave to copy that bright pattern of every
excellence which is set before us in the gospels ; and,
as far as we are able, let us act according to the ·dic-
tates of right re8son; and cultivate harmony, maintain
charity, and live in unity and brotherly love.
One of the most insignificant objects, in its external
appearance, though not perhaps the most useless,'
which has been adopted by our ancient·brethren, is
the Rod or Wand; and I shall conclude this course
Digitized by Coogle
LECTUREXtL 243
of lectures with .a brief sketch of its history and sym-
bolical application.
The earliest mention ofthis appendage is traditional.
It is said that when our first parents, by transgression
fell from their original state of innocence ; and were
expelled from paradise into a world of woe ; Adam,
bending under the oppression of guilt, supported his
weary limbs by taking in his hand a branch .of that
fatal tree which occasioned his disgrace. The Al-
:p~ighty forseeing the miserable consequences of sin,
and the necessity of divine interference for counteract-
ing its effects, not only permitted Adam to take with
hj111 this rod, but afterwards miraculously pre8erved it!
by natural means, for his own purposes. By Adam it
was bequeathed to Methusaleh the son of Enoch; who,
in like manner, left it to Noah, by whom it was pre-
served in the ark. After the death of Noah, it passed
to his grandson Mizraim, who founded the city of
Memphis; he deposited it in the celebrated college
there, and it remained under the guardianship of
the priests for many generations; until the time when
Jethro, a tutor of Moses was consecrated, and sent
from this college to be a priest of Midian ; and he
conveyed away the rod by stealth. He did not how-
ever profit by it in the slightest degree; for shortly after
his arrival in Midian, when walking in his garden, he
struck the lower end of the rod deep in the earth ;
from which situation he was never able to remove it.
While wrapt in wonder and astonishment at this ex-
. R2
Digitized by Coogle
244 LECTURE XII.
traordinary circumstance, he received a supernatural
indication that the rod should remain immoveable until
the Deity himself should commission a certain indi-
vidual to take it away, in whose hands it should be a
symbol ofhis power andglory. It happened therefore
that Moses, when he had slain the tyrannical Egyptian,
fied for concealment and safety to Jethro; and as they
were walking together in the garden, and employed in
earnest conversation on the Rhject of his flight, by
accident Moses laid his hand upon this rod, and without
any exertion drew it out of the ground. Jethro im-
mediately acquainted Moses with every circumstance
relating to this divine staff; and he, considering it as
an assurance of the favour ofheaven, immediately took
the rod into his own possession, which proved not only
a symbol of his authority, but the agent by which all
the miracles were performed that preceded and accom-
panied the great deliverance of the children of Israel
from their Egyptian bondage ; and its extraordinary·
powers were brought into requisition at the BuRNING
BusH, to convince him of his holy mission, and the
certain protection which would be extended to him
by the omnipotent I AM. The stupendous miracles
which wrought out the emancipation of his brethren,
were performed by the agency of this rod.
The imitations effected by Pharoh's magicians were
produced by natural causes only. They were in pos-
session of a secret to tame serpents and render them
innoxious. A little dexterity was therefore only ne-
Digitized by Coogle
LECTUIW Xli. ·245
~ssary to substitute real serpents, and conceal the r.ods
under their long garments. Frogs might be procured
in any numbers, for they swarmed throughout the land
of Egypt; and the art ofchanging the colour ofdifferent
substances was then known in the eastern countries ;
so that water might be easily tinged with a red colour,
to give it the appearance of blood.
Some learned men are of opinion that these rods
were actually converted into serpents, and the other
two miracles performed by the power of God ; that " the
Egyptians had no reason to think their incantations
would produce serpents; but they would try all experi-
ments in order to judge further of the matter ; and
upon their attemptingit, God was pleased in some cases
to give au ~expected success to their endeavours in
.order to serve and carry on his own purposes and
designs by it." But the passage does not appear to
favour this conjecture, for these serpents are said to be
produced by enchantmentsi that is, by certain ceremo-
nies and forms of words muttered between the teeth,•
after the manner of our modern jugglers; subsequently
to which, each magician threw down his serpent before
Pharoh and his court. For it is repugnant to our ideas
of God's attributes to suppose that he would lend his
assistance to such gross deceptions. Besides, the in-
capacity of these jugglers would have been better dis-
played, ifnoappearance ofa miracle had been produced;
• Isaiah viii. 9.
o,g,tized by Coogle
246 LECTURE XII.
nor would they have been induced to attempt the
performance of a miracle with the vengeance of Amen-
ophis before them, who appears to have possessed little
government of his passions, without some certain
prospect of success ; for it was a custom of the eastern
kings to destroy those magicians who failed to perform
a miracle dictated from the throne.• But Moses
actually knew the real state of the case from his
Egyptian education, and therefore his serpent devoured
theirs. The sorcerers too in the third plague confessed
that Moses wrought his miracles by the finger of God;
which amounts to an acknowledgement that theirs were
works of sleight, done by the power or dexterity of
man ; and not by any interference on the part of God.t
* Dan. ii. 18. Herod. Clio,
t The works of art now in common use, would in ancient times, have
been referred to the power of magic. StufFed birdsare made to fty through
the air with great velocity ; wooden images to perform upon several kinds
of musical instruments ; and to draw landscapes with great correctness and
dispatch, by means ofan ingenious complication ofmachinery. Archimedes
waa esteemed a powerful magician, for he performed works, which though
now perfectly understood, were in those ages esteemed 11Upernatural, and
beyond the attainment of unassisted human abilities. Archytas the
Pythagorean made a wooden dove to fty; and Boetiua made brazen serpents
to hiss, and birds of brass to sing ; and they were hence accounted Magi-
cians.
The moat inexplicable doubts were however entertained by the wiser
heathens about the power of magicians to invoke evil spirits and make uee
of their agency. Eusebius* quotes an epistle from Porphyry to Anebonus
the Egyptian, in which he proposes nine doubts on this subject. How can
it be reconciled to common sense, says he, that magicians invoke spirits aa
their superiors, and afterwards command them as inferiors? Why do the
spirits refufMl.to answer the calls of any but men of strict virtue; and yet will
lend their assistance to the commission of any wickedness? Why will they
• Euaeb. de pnrp enn. I. 5,c. 6.
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XII. 247
St. Jerome says, signa qum faciebat Moses imitabantur
signa lEgyptiorum, sed non erant in veritate. And
this observation is doubtless correct, for the rod of
Moses devoured the serpents substituted fm- the rods
ofthe magicians; and therefore they were real serpents;
and not an illusion as is the opinion of many.
The magicians themselves, might consider that
Moses and Aaron produced these effects from natural
causes like themselves; and therefore boldly opposed
sleight against sleight, or miracle against miracle; and
hence the king, regarding Moses and Aaron only as ex·
pert magicians, refused to comply with their demands.
But when their dexterity failed in its effect, they gave
up the contest, and acknowledged that Moses was an
agent in the hands of God.
Before this time, however, the staff was an emblem
of rule and authority; for Jaoob, when he had received
· the blessing of royalty for himself and his descendants,
was sent into the land of Padanaran with his staft' only,
not hear the sorcerer unless be abstain from venery; and afterwards inflame
him to unnatural lust ? Why do they prescribe fasting, and yet delight in
the smell of sacrifices? Why do they forbid the magician during the rites
of incantation to touch any dead body, when some magieal ceremonies are
performed with parts of a dead body ? Why do they endeavour to terrify
the spirits with threats, who are represented as not afraid of them ? Why
do they address the spirits with invocations and prayers like these-Thou
w~o art engendered from the slime of the earth; thou wh011e throne isin the
waters; thou who camt 8811\lme new shapes at pleasure, appear and aid ual
when these kind ofprayers are little regarded by them ? Why do they use
barbarous and strange words, as if the spi.Jits understood only the Scythian,
or some other language equally barbarous ? And as the spirits are imma•
terial1 bow carr they be tempted by sensible and mater.ia.l things?
Digitized by Coogle
248 .LECTU'RB XII.
as the visible symbol of his high character.• It was
exhibited to ltis numerous posterity at his death; when,
as the patriarch of his race, he blessed the sons of
Joseph, who had become the ruler over all the land of
Egypt. It was the subject of Balaam's prophecy
respecting the regal dignity to be enjoyed by his de-
scendants ;t and afterwarqs referred to as a token of
royalty,+ and an agent of national punishment;§ and
the utter destruction of a kingdom is expressed by the
metaphor of a broken sta.ff;ll which denoted the an-
nihilation of power, and a state of absolute slavery.
The rod was a symbol of the authority of Moses and
Aaron at the deliverance, and the subsequent wander-
ings of the Israelites ; and was denominated the rod
of God;~ as displayed in numerous instances,•• but
particularly in that remarkable case when'the princes
of Israel disputed this authority, and it was confirmed
by a miracle; for the rods of the twelve tribes being
placed in the tabernacle to await a display of the divine
will and pleasure; the rodofAaron "brought forth buds
and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds."tt David
* Gen. xxxii. 10 t lb. xlix. 10. : Jer. x. 16. Rev. ii. 27.
§ Job. xxi. 9. Isaiah x. 2,, 26. II Isaiah xiv. 6.
4!1" Exod. iv. 20.-xvii. 9. To the same efFect the Psalmist says, " thy
throne 0 God, is for ever and ever; the sceptre of thy kingdom ia a right
sceptre." (Psahn xlv. 6.) The EtsfF or emblem of power, was sometimes
put for the oracle or power itself. (Hosea, iv. 12.)
** Exod. viii. 5-xiv. 16-xvii. 11.
tt Exoct. xvii. 8. 'l'hia rod wu iu such esteem with the celebratedJacob
Behmen, that he incorporated ibi type iuto the significant emblem which he
had ensraven and ueed on alloccasionsu his private seal. The device ..._
o,g,tized by Coogle
LECTOJlB XU. 249
uses the same instrument in a beautiful metaphor to
express the consolations which he derived from the
grace of God. "Though I walk," said this pious
man, and excellent brother, " through the valley of
the shadow of death, I will fear no evil ; for thou art
with me. Thy rod and thy staif, they comfort me."•
Rhabdomancy, or divination by the use of a rod,
was practised by the Israelites ; and is termed by the
prophet Hosea an abomination. It was performedt by
setting up two sticks, which from the efficacy ofa charm
were supposed to be supernaturally directed in their
fall to the right hand or to the left ; and were thus
accounted lucky or unlucky. Nebuchadnezzar, when
consulting the Gods about the invasion of Judea, used
either the above, or divination by shooting an arrow
into the air, and marking the direction in which it
fell ; by which means .he determined whether to make
the expedition, or to defer it to a more favourable
opportunity.+
Throughout the whole ancient and modern world,
the symbol of power, was always a staff or sceptre. In
Egypt., Omnipotence was denoted by a sceptre crowned
" a band reached out from heaven with a stalk of full blown lilies, being
the Raptum Magicum, (pa{3ao~, 11irga) the rod ofAaron which budded; the
idngdom of the my in the paradise of God, which ia to be manifested and
displayed in the last time, when the end shall have been brought back to
ita begim;dng, and the circle closed." (Okely'a Behmen, p. 20.)
* Paahn xxiii. 4..
t Tbeopbylact. in Hosea, iv. 12. +Vid. E:aek. xxi. 21.
Digitized by Coogle
250 LECTURE XII.
with an eye. The royal sceptre of Egypt was sur-
mounted by the head of a jackall as an emblem of
the power of Osiris. . The Tau or handled cross was
also a staff, and a sacred symbol. The same idea was
conveyed equally by the cypress sceptre of Jupiter ; the
trident of Neptune ; the thyrsis of Bacchus ; the club
of Hercules ; the caduceus of Mercury ; the mace of
Thor ; the staff of the Brahmins ; the Druid's wand,
and the Persian crosier. The magical rod used in the
mysteries of Osiris, and deposited in the temple of
Isis, was an acknowledged substitute for the rod of
Moses, which tradition said had been stolen.from the
college of Memphis. Even the golden twig or staff of
Eneas, constituted a symbol of protection in his fearful
descent into Hades ; or in other' words, his initiation
into the mysteries. During the celebration of the
Dionysiaca, "the thyrsis or rod ofBacchuswas elevated,
to perpetuate the remembrance of two remarkable
miracles which the god was reputed to have performed
with this all powerful instrument. On one occasion
he cast his rod upon the ground and it became a ser-
pent; and afterwards he struck the two rivers Orontes
and Hydaspes with it, and the waters immediately
receded, and he passed over dryshod. The assembly
which celebrated these orgies, was composed of men,
women, and children of all ranks; amongst whom,
during the continuance of the festival distinction was
unknown. This was intended to commemorate tho
Digitized by Coogle
251
manner of· Israel's· departing out of Egypt, ·a.ecom-
panied by a mixed multitude from all the neighbouring
nations."•
When mythology became converted into romance,
we find the same virtue transferred to the wand of the
magician; without which he would have been accounted
powerless, and his art vain. Even the rod of forked
hazel which, in the middle ages, was supposed, in the
hand of an adept, to be capable of discovering hidden
treasure, or detecting concealed springs of water, was
dignified with the name of Moses' Rod.
From the above collection of facts and reasonings,
we may gather whence our ancient brethren, whose
example we have copied in this particular, derived the
use of wands as ensigns of office ; for the custom un-
questionably accompanied all the genuine masonry
which we find in the purer ages of the world. It
still continues to be an emblem of authority in every
grade of civilized society, though under different
appellations. When wielded by a monarch it is termed
a sceptre; in the hands of a bishop, it is a crozier; of a
general, a baton; and the civic mace of our municipal
corporations, and the constable's staff, have precisely
and severally the same reference.
All these examples bear on the Masonic rod or
wand, which is used as an ensign of office or dignity ;
and the Director of Ceremonies in our Lodges, is dis-
* Hiat. Init. p. 2CI7, with authorities.
Digitized by Coogle
LBCTUBB XU.
tinguished by a Jewel bearing two rod1 1altire-wile.
This emblem teaches moderation to rulers, and obe.
dience to. the brethren. Subordination is the broad
and imperishable basis on which alone can rest the
stability of any institution. This has been well ex-
pressed by Dr. Hemming in his celebrated charge to
a newly initiated Brother; and it is a lesson of such
value, that every lover of the science ought to retain it
in his constant rer.ollection. " As a Mason.'' says this
important document, "there are.many excellencies of
character to which.your attention may be particularly
and forcibly directed. Among the foremost of these
are, secrecy,.fidelit!J, and obedience.
" Secrecy may be said to consist in an inviolable
adherence to the obligation you have entered into,
never improperly fo reveal any of those Masonic secrets
which have now been, or may at any future time be, in-
trusted to your keeping ; and cautiously to shun all
occasions which might inadvertently lead you so to do.
" Your fidelity must be exemplified by a strict ob-
servance of the constitutions of the Fraternity ; by
adhering to the ancient landmarks of the order ; by
never attempting to extort, or otherwise unduly obtain,
the secrets of a superi<?r degree ; and by refraining to
recommend any one to a participation of our secrets,
unless you have strong grounds to believe that, by a
similar fidelity, he will ultimately reflect honour on
our choice.
" So must your obedience be proved by a close con-
Digitized by Coogle
LECTURE XII. 253
formity to our laws a.nd regulations; by prompt atten- ·
tion to all signs and summonses ; by modest and correct
demeanour whilst in the lodge ; by abstaining from
everytopic ofreligious or political discussion; bya ready
acquiescence in all votes and resolutions duly passed
by the brethren ; and by perfect submission to the
Master and his Wardens, whilst acting in the dis-
charge of their respective offices."
To define this authority and obdience in the clearest
and most simple manner, our ancient brethren made
them the subjects of a series of general exhortations ;
which is one of the most valuable legacies, that in their
wisdom, they have bequeathed to us. I allude to the
ancient charges, which have been so judiciously in-
corporated into our book of constitutions ; and which
every Mason would do well to study with attention,
that they may be reduced to practice whenever their
assistance is needed.
These charges are sufficiently comprehensive, and
embrace an epitome of every duty which the Mason is
enjoined to perform. And as a commentary on them,
the Grand Lodge bas thought proper, in its constitu-
tions, to enumerate these various duties more minutely,
and to make the breaches of them penal ; whilst
honours and rewards are held out to those worthy
brothers who have been distinguished by regularity
and decorous conduct. By such means the proper
balance is maintained in the several grades of the
institution ; and by a happy blending of interests
Digitized by Coogle
254 LECTURB XII.
and employment, Freemasonry has existed in all ages
unimpaired by the convulsions which have shattered
States and Empires, and annihilated mighty nations.
This consideration involves an assurance that its sta-
bility can never fail, and that it will exist till time
shall be no more.
The tower sky-pointing, and the dome sublime,
Rais'd by the mystic rules and forming power,
Shall long withstand the iron tooth of time,
Yet still their fall is IJUl'e :
But Masonry,
The art sublimely free,
Founded by God himself, throt1gh time shall finn endure.
Still shall its sons their grateful voices raise.
And joyful sound their Great Grand Master's praise.
At thy shrine, 0 Masonry !
Shall admiring nations bend ;
In future times thy sons ahallsee
Thy fame from pole to pole extend.
To worlds unknown thy hcav'n born light dispense.
And systems own thy sacred influence.
Digitized by Coogle
GENERAL INDEX.
The lines in italics point out the additions.
A.
Aaron's Rod, 249.
Abury, Temple at, a picture of the deity, 54-.
Adam, happiness of, in Paradise, 4-1; expelled thence, 4-3; receives a
consoling promise, 4-4-.
Adam takes a branch ofthe forbidden tree, 2(.3.
Admonition to erring brethren, 220.
Adytum, or Lodge of the Druids, 136•
.lEa, a name qf the deity, 32 n.
Agency ofevil spirits, 246 n.
All-Seeing Eye, 23.
Al-Om-Jah, the name of the deity, preserved in the Egyptian
Mysteries, 14.
Amber beads, 202 n.
AmbitiOn, to excel, ~22 n.
Amulets, magical, 202 n.
Ancient charges, study of, recommended, 2&3.
Antiquity of Serpent worsl!ip, 56.
Apartments in caverns ofinitiation, 154- n.
Ape, said to be the tempter of Eve, 43.
Apis, the Cherubim worshipped as, 74-.
Apron, a garment of great antiquity, 193; its design, ib.; apron or
girdle worn by Job, by Aaron, by the Prophets, by Samuel, David,
Elijah, John the Baptist, Jesus Christ, and the primitive Christi&ns,
194; its symbolical reference, 202; antiquity of the, described, 205; an
· honourable badge of distinction, 206..
Ararat, Mount, Ark rests on the summit of, 84.
Ark, (Noah's,) an oblong square, 83; rests ori Ararat, 84-; quitted by
Noah on May-day. ib.
Ark of the Covenant, Uzzah slain for touching the, 38; fifty thousand
men slain for looking on the, ib.
Ark of Noah, the moon, 86 n.; symbolized by an e,qg, 101 n.
Anow, divination by an, 249.
Art, works of, 246 n.
A.,, a name ofthe Deity, 32 n.
s
Digitized by Coogle
256 INDEX.
Aaia~c Symbols, 8.
A. U. M. the mysterious name of the deity in India, 34.
Authority of the W. M. 213.
.Authority, uercile of, 222 n. ; defined, 253.
Automaton, 24.6 n.
B.
Babel, Tower of, Maeonry practised in the, 5 ; appropriated to secret
celebrations, and to astronomy, 88; built on the plan of a Point within
a Circle, 172; dedicated to the Sun, 173; contained seven stories, 17s:
Badge of innocence, 198.
Balaam'e prophecy, 248.
Banners of the Tribes of Israel, 64.
Banner, on the plains of Shinar, was inscribed with a dove and olive
branch, encircled by a rainbow, 105 ; of semiramis, ib.
Barbarian., Britone etgled, 11 n.
Bardic 81J8tem, 203 n.
Basilisk, Eve said to be tempted by a, 4.3.
Baton, 251.
Beada, gold and amber, 202 n.
B«;l, a name of the deity, 33; his fire lighted on May-day, ib.
Belenue, 33 n.
Benevolence, 238.
Blood, libatione of, 124 n.
Boa!!!, the progenitor of David, 133 n.
Brahma, death and birth of, 92 n. ; born from an egg, 101 n.; iden-
tified with light, 156 n.
Britain, ret•erence for aecrete in, 11 n.
British initiations of great importance, 120.
Britons worshipped the Serpent, 54.
Britona, receive the myateriea from the Pheniciana, 6 n.
Broken etajf, a 81Jmbol, 249.
Brotherly Love, Relief, and Truth, 37.
Brotherly love, what, 223, n.
Burning Bush, 229.
Burning Bmh, the rod ofMoaea at the, 244-.
Cabala, 8 n.
Cabaric ritea, 5 n.
c.
Cabiric Priests, the perverters of Lux or Masonry 5.
Cakea and honey, 124. n.
Camp of Judah in the East, 232.
Digitized by Coogle
1
J
I
'
'
.I
'
..!
.,
I
..
INDEX. 2.>7
I
Candidate raised from a coffin in the ancient mysteries, 90.
Candidates, at their initiation, exorted to virtue, 195; choice and
qualifications of, 'i!U.
Cardinal virtues, (the) 37.
Cardinal mrtuu to be inculcated, 5!5!3 n.
Catacombs of Egypt, 18.
Caverns ofinitiation, 154 n.
Celeatial I!JBtem, the, iB masonic, 227.
Centre, esteemed the temple of the deity, 181.
Cerberus appeaBed, 124 n.
Ceremonies, emblems and jewels illustrated, 227.
Ceremonies, exterior, what, 208 n.
Chaldea, Phallic worship in, 185.
Chaos, 109.
Charity, 238.
Charity, what,.!28 n.
Cherubim, constituted one of the secrets of Masonry in all ages 62 ;
vouchsafed at the fall, 63 ; withdrawn at the deluge, ib. ; renewed to
Moses, ib. ; lost at the destruction of the temple, ib.; revealed to Ezekiel
fn the compound form of a man, an ox, a lion, and an eagle, ib.; sym-
bolical, 64; introduced into the idolatrous mysteries, 67; their various
symbolical reference, 76.
Cherubim, wemplification of, 171 n.
Chinese, worshipped the Serpent, 50 ; used the circle and parallel
lines, l'T 1.
Circle, universal form of the, 174.
Circumambulation, 234.
Closing the Lodge, 219.
Clothing of Masonry, 80.
Club ofHercules, 250.
Coffin, emblematical, 90; a place of penance, 117; an emblematical
tomb, 118; resurrection from the, ib.
Colonies, practice of, 86 n.
Colours, mystical, of druidism, 201.
Committees, no private ones are allowed in Masonry, 213.
Compasses illustrated, 236.
Cromlech of Britain, what, 119; at Stanton Drew, 120; Llech y
Gowres, ib. ; at Shap, ib.
Constables, staff, 251.
Creation, as explained in the Gothic mgsteriu, 96 n.
Creative power, what, 138 n.
Croaie1· of Persia, 250.
o,9itized by Coogle
258 INDEX.
D.
Darkness, of the Egyptian mysteries, U; of the initiations, 90 ; of
the uninitiated, Ill ; and Light contrasted 112; of Masonry illustrated,
113 ; heathen nations partial to, 115 ; temple dedicated to, ib. ; divine
honours paid to, 116; superior antiquity of, ib.; honoured with three
cheers, 117; of death, 126.
Darknus and'Light, 156 n.
David's sacrifice, 25.
Deaaiul, or mavementfrQm east to west by the south, 235 n.
Death, represented in the mysteries, 89; of the mysteries symbolical,
117 ; aspirant raised. from~ 118.
Death, symbolized by honey, lll4. n.
Deity, triad of, symbolized by three pmars, 138; explanation of; 139;
in different nations, 142; represented by three stones, 14.3; many in-
stances of this custom produced, J.t.4.
Deluge, described, 83 ; tradition of, preserved in the mysteries of all
nations, 85; by the Brahmins of India, 91; in China, 93; in America,
94.; by the Druids of Britain, 97.
Deluge ofthe Gothic mysteries, 91 n.
Devangari, a sacred language, 13 n.
Dhiah, a name ofthe Deity, 82 n.
Dionysus born from an egg, 101 n.
Director of CeremonieB, 251.
Discipline in the Lodge, an attention to, recommended, 217.
Dispersion from Shinar, how accomplished, 225.
Divine Lights, 112.
Divination by a rod, what, 249; by an arrow, ib.;
Divisions in the Lodge to be avoided, 221.
Doctrine ofthe Trinity, prevalence of, 141 n.
Druidical Mysteries, symbols of the, 10; initiation into the, 157 ; trials
of fortitude in the, 158; dreadful process in their initiations, ib.; govern-
ment of the, 211.
Druidical ornaments, 202 n. ; character 203 n.
Druids used the Point within a Circle, 181.
Druid Temples, circular, 181; at Keswick, Stonehenge, and Abury,
182.
Duad, 178.
Duad, what, 179 n.
E.
Eagle, worshipped in various nations, 71.
E .A.P., to be instructed, 223 n.
East, tbe, peculiarly sacred, 231; the most honourable quarter, 232;
Digitized by Coogle
INDEX. 259
Camp of Judah in the, ib.; Christian Religion planted in the, 283; early
Christians prayed towards the, ib; Garden of Eden in the, ib.; visible
glory of Christ in the, ib ; Christ shall come to judgment in the, 234o;
Masonic customs connected with the, ib.
East and West, (due,) Temples, Churches, and Lodges built, 233;
graves dug, ib.
East, West, and South, 2l'l.
East, the Master's place, why, 223 n.
Egg, a aymbol ofthe resurrection, 101 n.
Egress of Noah from the Ark, symbolized by an egg, 101 n.
Egypt, Hieroglyphics of, 12; Serpent worship of, 49 ; Phallic worship
of, 18-
5.
Egypt, plaguu of, 2l6 ; royal sceptre oj, 250.
Egyptian Temples full of representations of the Serpent god, 49.
Egyptian Symbols, 15.
Egyptians used the Point within a Circle, 177.
Elements,four andfive, 180 n.
Eleusinian Mysteries, Ill , rings given in the, 177.
Elysium, 90, n.
Emblems illustrated, 122.
Emblems, what, 8 n.
Empyrean, a name of the Mithratic Cave, 137.
Enchantmenta, what, 24.5.
Enoch translated, 25.
Essenes, their initiations described, I OS.
Eaua, a name ofthe Deity, 32 n.
Europe, so named from the worship of the Serpent, b3.
Eve tempted, 4.1.
Exercise ofauthority, 222 n.
Expulsions, 220.
Expulaion from paradiae, 24.3.
Extent of the Lodge, 238.
Exterior ceremonies, what, 208 n.
F.
Faith, Hope, and Charity, 168.
Fall of Man, traditions of the, 4o6; in India, ib.; in Greece, 47; in
Scandinavia, ib.; in New Zealand, 51.
F.C., to execute, 223 n.
Feet, bare, in the initiations, 195.
Fidelity explained, 252.
Fire, bridge of, 185.
Digitized by Coogle
260 INDEX.
Firu on May Ew, aftd &tA N~, 88 n.
Fiw elemmU, the, 180 n.
Foundation Stone, where laid, 235.
Freemasonry, antiquity of, ~; more ancient than the heathen mys-
teries, ib. ; practised at Shinar, ib. ; deteriorated by idolatroua iuno't'&-
tions, 226.
Ft>eemaMmry fou:ntkd on lilenu, 227.
Genuflection, 230.
Golden Rule, 128.
Golden Twig •fEnea~~, 250.
G01'aet¥au, 'l03 n.
G.
Gothic Mysteries, government of, 211.
Government, Masonic, 209; of great antiquity, 210; of &he mysteries,
ib. ; Masonic, conducted by three principal Officers, 212.
Grand Lodge, Rules of the, to be adhered to, 217.
Graw, the, 90 n.
Grecian philo8opheN t>eputed the inwntora of the heathen mya-
teriu, 14-2 n.
Greece, Phallic worship in, 185.
Greek Mysteries, government of, 210; Circumambu1ation in &he, 284..
Greeks worshipped the Serpent, 4.8 ; worshipped ~th feet uncovered,
229.
Helle, derivation of, 90 n.
Hermaphrodite deity, 100.
H.
He8U8, a name ofthe Deity, 32 n.
Hieroglyphics, 8; Asiatic, ib. ; of Pythagoras, 9; of Druidism, 10; of
Egypt, 13.
HieroglyphiC8 inwnted by HemJU, 8 n.
Hindoo adoration, 138 n.
Hi8torical truthl peaenled by idalatera, 4.6 n.
Honey, a symbol of death, 123, 165.
Honey, a aymool ofdeath, 124. n.
Hours, of attendance, 218; of departure 219.
Jacob'a vision, 148.
Jacob'a Staff, 24.1.
Jab, 28.
I.
Digitized by Coogle
INDEX. 261
Idolatrous nations, transferred Masonry into the mysteries, 4o; derived
their ideas of God from the Patriarchs, 62.
Jehovah, known to the heathen, 27.
Jethro steals the Mystical Rod, 234,
Incommunicable Name, 28.
Indians, worshipped the Serpent, .SO ; used the Phalijc worship, 186.
Indian Mysteries, government of, 211.
Influence ofthe chair, 223 n.
Initiation, an emblem of death, 89 ; into the Druidical Mysteries
necessary, 120; into the Essenian Mysteries, 151; in Britain, ceremony
of, 156; trials of fortitude in, 157 ; dreadful process of, 158 ; dangers
encountered by the candidate in, 159; conclusion of, 160; in India, 158;
in Persia, 156; illustrated by the tale of Rustam, 157; legend in the, 188;
aprons used in, 194.; other ceremonies of, described, in India, 199; in
Japan, ib.; in Scandinavia, 200; in Britain, 201.
Initiation, communicates holiness, 5 n. ; caverns oj, 154 n.
Initiated, the, not to divulge secreta, 10 n.
Inspiration cont•eyed byagmbolll, 10 n.
Imtructiona to Officers, 223 n.
Investiture, by the Es.~ene11, 195; by the Greeks, 197; by the Persians,
ib.; by the Brahmins, 198; by the Japanese, 199; by the Druida, 201.
Invisible Deity, 91 n.
.Invocation of Spirits, 246 n.
Jod, in the Centre of a Circle, 178.
Iron tools prohibited, 185.
Isaac, offering of, 25.
Judea, Phallic worship in, 187.
K.
Keswick, temple at, 182.
Kit's Cotti House, what, 119.
Kneeling, an act of humility, 230.
L.
Ladder, a symbol common to Masonry and all the idolatrous mys-
teries, 149 ; originated in Paradise, ib.; said to rest on the Holy Bible,
150 ; consisted of seven steps, which referred equally to the Planets and
the days of the week, 151 ; used as an important symbol in the Indian
Mysteries, 152; of the Scandinavian mysteries explained, 162; repre•
sentation of, 167.
Law, Sacred, 77.
Laws, conformity to !he, essential, 253.
o,g,tized by Coogle
262 INDEX.
Libotitm~ oflwney, 12.f. n.
Light, communicated by Symbols, J10; enjoyed by the initiated, Ill ;
contrasted with Darlmea, 112.
Light, the Being with 8etlen ra!J8, 156 n.
Lights, Divine, 112.
I,inu, P.P. ememplijied, 111 n.
Lion, the, adored in various nations, 69.
Lodge, the abode of peace, 78; central Star of, 79 ; foundation of the,
130 ; governed by three Officen, 136; of the Druids, 136 ; Conn of the;
in India, 137 ; Officen of, ib. ; Masonic, extent of, ib., 238 ; of Penia,
called the Empyrean, 137 ; its supporters, 138; of masons, what, 218.
Loto., and 'Yi8hnu, 92 n.
Lux, an ancient name of Masonry, 116.
Mace of Thor, 250.
MagiCal Amulet., 202 n.
M.
Magician. of Pharaoh, 2U; boldnu• of, 24.1; yield to Mo.u, ib.
Man, an object of divine worship, 71.
Masonry, Free, not derived from the ancient Mysteries, 3; in the an-
tediluvian world, 5 ; in the time of Noah, ib. ; at Shinar, ib. ; a pro-
gressive science, 61; peaceful pursuits of, 79 ; defined, 110; enforces the
practice of virtue, 192; knowledge of, symbolical, 207 ; inculcates obe-
dience, ib.; requires ofits professors the practice ofthe Three Theological
and the Four Cardinal Virtues, 208.
MtuOnrg, whence derived, 236 n. ; permanence of, 254o.
Ma.onic gooernment, remark• on, 223 n.
Master, his authority in the Lodge, 213; qualifications of, 222.
Ma.ter, duty ofthe, 223 n.
May-day, fires in Britain, 33 ; Noah quitted the Ark on, 84.
May-Eve,jiru on, 33 n.
Members of Parliament, origin of the ceremony of chairing, 184-.
Memphis, idols of, fell from their pedestals when Jesus Christ went
down into Egypt, 225.
Mercury represented by an officer in the Mysteries, 210.
Meaovpaveo, 181.
Mexicans worshipped the Serpent, 61.
~llirack• performed, 246.
Muktoe, why e•teemed, l.f.4o n•
.Mithratic Cave, or Lodge of Persia, 137.
Moderation in Governors recommended, 214..
Moloch, H .
Digitized by Coogle
,.
Monad, 178.
_
Mcmad, what, 179 n.
INDEX.
Monstrous figures worshipped, 73.
Moon, qfferings to, 124 n•
.Moon represented by an Officer in the Mysteries, 211.
Moriah, Mount, 25.
Mosaic Pavemept, 240.
Motions, practice of making, 221.
263
Mottos to the Lectures, 1, 23, 40, 61, 81, 109, 130, 147, 169, 192,
209; 224-.
Mount of God, 149.
Mysteries, the ancient, have some characteristics in common with
Masonry, 5 ; governed by three superior -Officers, 6; of great import-
ance in Egypt, 12; were received from Adam, according to the Egyp-
tians, 14; inculcated the unity of the godhead, 27; of Persia, 112; of
India, used the Seven-stepped Ladder, 153; of Persia used the same
expressive emblem, 156 ; of Scandinavia, extraordinary symbols used
in the, 185; the vehicles of regeneration, 196; government of, 210;
emanated from Masonry, 226.
Mystical Ladder of Scandinavia explained, 162.
N.
Name, Sacred, 28.
Name, Sacred, speculaticms respecting the, 32 n.
Names oftowns, derivaticm oj, 33 n.
Names ofthe two pillars of Solomon's temple, 133 n.
Nations, planting of, 2~5.
Nature and Art, productions oj, all emanatefrom Masonry, 221.
Nature, generative principles of, 185.
New Zealanders worshipped the Serpent, 51.
Nimrod, 88.
Noah quitted the Ark on May-day, 84; an object of divine wonhip,
why, 86.
Noah, the Sun, s'6 n.
North-east, foundation stone laid in the 235.
November 5th, fires on, 33 n.
Number, 178. ·
Number, 365, 33 n.
Number Three, Mystical, 143 n.
()
Obedience explained, 252.
Digitized by Google
264 INDEX.
Obedience to theW. M. recommended, 218.
Obeliska of Egypt, 12.
Odin, Hall of, 188.
Offerings to Hecate and the Moon, 124. u.
Ojfice, qualijicationafor~ 223 n.
Officers of the Mysteries represented the Sun, the Moon, and Mer-
cury, 210.
0 . I. W., a symbol of the Deity, 34..
Om, a name of the supreme god in India, 35; how to be pro-
nounced 36.
On, a name of the Deity, 32; the living and eternal God, 84..
Ophites, 59.
Oracles and Serpents, connection between, U n.
Oracles struck dumb, 45.
OrderS' of Architecture, the three principal, 146.
Origin ofthe heathen gods, 138 n.
Ornaments, Druidical, 202 n.
Osiris, legend of, 188.
Ox, adored in various nations, 68.
P.
Paradise, e.x_eulsionfrom, 243.
Pastos or Coffin, 106; a place of penance, 117; confinement in the,
118 ; resurrection from the, ib.
Pedestal contains the Holy Bible, 78.
Penal statutes, 253.
P. P. lines, exemplification of, 171 n.
Perfect Ashier, 240.
Perpendi~ parallel lines, 171.
Persians worship the Serpent, 50.
Persian, Dive Arzshenk, 69; mysteries, 112; initiations, 166; seven-
stepped Ladder illustrated, 159; mysteries, government of the, 210.
Phallic worship, 185; origin of, 188.
Pillara oftl'e Temple, 138 n.
Pillars, Primitive, 130; idolatrous, 131 ; commemorative, 131; in-
scribed, ib.;·used by the descendants of Shem, ib, ; at Solomon's Porch,
133; emblematical, 134; in the Druidical Mysteries, 136.
Plagues ofEgypt, 246.
Planets, 100.
Planting of nations, 225.
Point, line, auperficiea, solid, 179 n.
Point within a Circle, origin of the emblem, 170; improved by Pytha-
o,g,tized by Coogle
INDEX. 265
goras, 178; referred to the Planetary System, 181; astronomical charac-
ter of, ib. ; chymical character of the, ib.
Porch of Solorrwn'a Temple, 133 n.
Power, the wand a aymbol of, 244.
Presence of God, fearful, 38.
ProtJidence, aymbolized by the wheela ofthe cherubim, 111 n.
Punctuality amongst Masons recommended, 218.
Pyramids of Egypt, intended as places of secret celebration and ini-
tiation, 13 ; mysterious, ib. ; of China and Mexico, ib. .
Pythagoras, symbols of, 9 ; silence of, ib. ; improves the emblem of a
Point within a Circle, 178; worships with feet uncovered, 229.
Pythia killed by a dragon, 45 n.
Q.
Qualification, of candidates, 214; of a W. M., ~.
Quatenary, 178.
R.
Rainbow, an emblem in various nations, 106 ; mysterious signification
of, ib.
Raya ofLight, aeven, 156 n.
Regeneration, 90.
Religion deteriorated, how, 225.
Religioua and political aubjectaforbidden, 253.
Remarka on Maaonic Government, 21!8 n.
Remphan, the Shekinah worshipped as, 74.
Resurrection symbolized by an Egg, 101 n.
Rewards instituted, 258.
Reverberations, in a cavern ofinitiation, 154- n.
Rhabdomancy, 249.
Rings given in the Eleusinian mysteries, 177.
Ritea, Cabiric, 6 n.
Rod, a aymbol, 242 ; history of the, 243 ; brought by Adam out of
Paradise, ib.; stolen by Jethro, ib.; redeemed by Moaea, 244; mira-
cles performed by the, ib.; devoura the magiciana' rod~, 24.7; at the
deliverance, 249 ; of God, ib.; ofAaron and David, ib.; divination by
the, ib.; in the temple of Iaia, 250; of Bacchua, ib.; offorked hazel,
251 ; ofMasonry, ib.
Rod of Moses, said to have had the tetragrammaton engraven on
it, 33.
·Rod~ in Saltire, 252.
Romans worshipped with bare feet, 229.
Rough Ashier, 239.
Rule, Twenty-four Inch, 236.
Digitized by Google .-'
266
Sacred language, 13 n.
Sacred Law. 77.
Sacred Name, 28.
INDEX.
s.
Sacred name, apeculatiom respecting the, 32 n.
Scandinavian Mysteries, extraordinary symbols in the, 184..
Scandinavians worshipped the Serpent, 53.
Sceptre, a symbol qfroyalty and power, 24-9.
Seasonable hours recommended, 218.
Secrecy of the ancient mysteries,.6; of the Egyptian mysteries, 14;
practised by the Essenes, 196.
Secrecy explained, 252.
Secret, a principle one in the mysteries, 75.
Secrets, reverence/or, in Britain, II n.
Semiramis, Banner of, 105.
Seraph, 58.
Serpent, a symbol of Masonry used before the ftood, 40 ; tempts Eve,
41 ; supposed to have bad the use of speech, 4-2 ; some think it was of
prodigious magnitude, 43; worshipped by the Greeks. 4-6; an emblem of
life and health, 4-8; worshipped in Egypt, 49 ; an emblem of wisdom
and eternity, ib.; worshipped in Persia, India, and China, 50; an emblem
of wisdom and power, ib.; reveals the Rixty-four symbols of Fo-Hi, 51;
worshipped in New Zealand and Mexico, ib.; in Scandinavia, 53; in
Britain 54.
Serpents and Oracles, connection between, 45 n.
Serpent worship, antiquity of, 56; cause of, 5S.
Seven, a sacred number, 152.
Seven rays oflight, 156 n.
Seven-stepped Ladder, 167.
Sbekinab, 64-.
Shield, White, 200.
Shoes taken from the feet, 229.
Silence, practised by the disciples of Pythagoras, 9.
Silence, the initiated bound to keep, IO n.; Masonry founded
on, 227.
Skull, mead drank out of, at the initiations, 200.
Solomon, King, 25.
Solomon's temple, porch of, 133 Jl.
Sphinges, 13.
Spirits invoked, 246 n.
Square illustrated, 236.
Staff, an emblem ofauthority, 247; Jacob's, ib.; Balaam'8 p1·ophecy
respecting, 248; of David, 249 ; ofthe Bmhmins, 250.
Digitized by Coogle
INDEX. ..
Standard, Royal, of Persia, was originally an Apron, 206
Star in the East, 79.
Stonehenge, Temple at, 183.
Submission to Officers recommended, 2S3.
Subordination to the Masonic Officers recommended, 213.
Sun, Moon, and Planets, ~7.
267
Sun, represented by an Officer, 210; how said to rise in the East, 231 ;
Symbol of a Serpent, 48.
Symbols, of the Mysteries resembled those of Masonry, 6; Jewish, 8;
of Pythagoras, 9; Druidical10; of Egypt, IS; of Masonry, substituted
for Alphabetical Characters, 19; the Sixty-four, of Fo-Hi, 51.
Symbols, what, 8 n.; invested with a moral reference, ~7.
T.
Tabernacle of Moses, 74; placed due East and West, 232.
Talent and industry, proiluce excellence, ~ n.
Tau, or cross iotent, 250.
Temple of Solomon, dedicated, 25 ; built, 134.
Temples, of Egypt and Chaldea, full of Symbols, 186; builtdue East
and West, 232.
Temple, two pillara of, explained, 134- n.
Temples where triads were worshipped, 14o2 n.
Tetrsctys of Pythagoras, 28.
Tetragrammaton, used by the Israelites, 28 ; true pronunciation of
the, said to be lost, 29 ; how retained by idolaters, ib. ; Symbols of the,
30 ; potency 'Of the, ib. ; a ray of Light, ib.; transmitted by the Essenes,
ib.; communicated in a whisper, ib. ; inaccessible, 32; known to the
Greeks, ib, ; was the Egyptian Pass-word, ib. ; said to have been en-
graven on the Rod of Moses, 33 ; inscribed on the Banners of the four
principal Tribes of Israel, 64-.
Tharamia, a name ofthe Deity, 32 n.
Theological Virtues, 37.
Three, a Mystical number, 143 n.
Three forked lightning, 14.2 n.
Thgraia ofBacchus, 250.
Time, division of, 236; value of, 237.
Tongue of good report, 196.
Tracing Board, of the Egyptian Mysteries, 14; of Masonry, 234.
Tradition, a, of the Fall existed in all nations, 46.
Traditions ofthe Rod, 243.
Triad, divine, Symbols of, 138.
Triads of different nations enumerated, 14.2.
Digitized by Coogle
268 INDEX.
Triads tDhom they represent, 138; antiquity of, 11.2 n.
Trident, 142 n.
Trinity ofIdolaters, U.1 n.
Trinkets, 202 n.
Tripos, 45 n.
Triamegiatus invents hieroglyphics, 8 n.
Truths preaerved in the mysteries, 46 n.
Tual, or motionfrom eaat to tDeat by the north, 285 n.
TtDig, golden of, Eneas, 250.
Yiahnu and the lotos, 92 n.
Vitzliputzli, image of, 52.
v.
Uranus killed by hia brothers, 46 n.
w.
Wand-aee rod, staff, and sceptre.
West, Christ crucified with his face towards the, 233 ; Satan renounced
towards the, ib.
Whee/a ofthe cherubim, 171 n.
White Gamients, worn by the Essenes, 195; recommended by King
Solomon, ib.; worn by the Greeks, 197 ; worn in the mysteries of
Mithras, 198.
Wnite, in high estimation, 195, Shield of Scandinavia, 200;
Stone, 204.
White robe of the Druids, 203 n.
Wiadom, Strength, and Beauty, illustrated, 130.
W. M., duties of, 223 n.
Wokey hole, 154 n.
Y.
Ymer, produces the tDorld, 96 n.
z.
Zealanders, (New) addicted to Serpent worship, 51.
Digitized by Coogle
INDEX TO THE SYMBOLS, &c.
A.
Air, 17, 65.
All-Seeing Eye, 29, Ill.
Anchor, 104.
Angel, 18.
Angles, 12.
Anguinum, 55.
Ant, 16.
Ape, 15.
Apron, 193.
Ark of the Covenant, 69, 77.
Ark of Noah, 83, 84.
Ark, 86 n.; 101 n.
Ashier, I 1I.
Ash Tree, (Ydrasil) 162.
Aspen leaf, 11.
Avaricious Monarch, 15.
Aversion, 16.
B.
Balance, 15.
Banners of the Twelve
Tribes, 64.
Basiliscus, 49.
Baton, 251.
Bear, 16.
Beehive, 123,
Beetle, 18.
Bible, 110.
Black, (colour) 197.
Blue, 17.
Bridge of Fire, 185.
British maleandfemale deity,
212.
Broken Staff, 249.
Bull, 17.
Butterfly, 17.
c.
Cakes, 124 n.
Cavern, 99.
Cauldron, 212.
Central Star, 79.
Chaos, 109.
Chaplet, 198.
Cherubim, 63.
Cherubim, 171 n.
Chisel, 20.
Circle, 174 ; and central
Serpent, 16; and parallel
lines, 20 ; of the Zodiac, 64;
supported by two Serpents,
177.
Circular movement, 235.
Club, 250.
Coffin, 90;
Colours, 17.
Compasses, 20.
Covering of the Lodge, 148.
Cow, 99.
Creation, 16.
Creation, 96 n.
Crimson, 17.
Crocodile, 99.
Crosier, 198.
Crozier, 250.
Cross, 198; double, 21.
Crown, 198.
Cruelty and ignorance, 16.
Crux Ansata, 18.
D.
Darkness, Ill.
Darkness, 156.
Death, 124 n.
Digitized by Coogle
270 INDEX TO THE SYMBOLS.
Death, 18; and resurrection,
ib.
Deformity, 16.
Deity, 117 ; sUt"rounded by
eternity, 176,
Deluge, 17, 83.
Destruction 16.
Devil, 18.
Dolphin 64.
Door, 99.
Dove, 79, 93, 99 103; and
Olive Branch, 103.
Dragon, 64 n.
Duad, 179 n.
Duty to God and man, llO.
Eagle, 71.
Earth, 17.
Egg, 101.
Egg, 101 n.
E.
Endless Serpent 49; and
central Eye, 177.
Epoptes, 125.
Equality, 110.
Equilateral T1·iangle, 31.
Etemal God, 18.
Eternity, 49, 174.
Eye, 38.
F.
Faith, Hope, and Charity,
148.
Fecundity, 16.
Fidelity, 194.
Figs, 14.
Fire, 17; pot of, 16.
Fires, 33 n.
Firmness, 11.
Foot, 17.
Four Elements, 17.
Fox, 15.
Freemasonry, 79.
Frog, 17 ; and Lotos, ib.
G.
General Symbol, 19.
Girdle, 193.
Globe, 52; and winged Ser-
pent, 49.
Glory in the centre, lll.
Goat, 16.
Golden Cup, 99.
Golden Twig, 250.
Government of Lodge, llO.
Grave, 90 n.
Grasshopper 16.
Green, (colour) 20l.
H.
Hand, right, 16; left, ib.
Hawk, 18.
Hazel Rod, 251.
Honey, 14, 123.
Honey, 124 n.
Honour, and Victory, 16.
Hope, 201.
Hooded Snake, 49.
Hour Glass, 122.
Hyena, 16.
I.
Jacob's Staff; 247.
Ignorance, 16.
Immortality, 18.
Infinite Circle, 16.
Innocence, 194.
Instability, 16.
Integrity, 110.
Inundation, 71 n.
Jod, in the centre of a circle,
176.
Jods, Three, 30.
Irresolution, 11.
Justice, llO; and Generosity,
15; and Mercy, 172.
K.
Knowledge, 16.
Kowsteke-men, 199.
Digitized by Coogle
IICDBX TO TBB 8YMBOI.8. 271
L.
Ladder, Ill, 149.
Left hand closed, 16.
Letter Y, 160. •
Level, no.
Life, 18, 198.
Light, 65, 201 ; and Glory,
68.
Light, 156 n.
Lights, three .great, no;
three lesser, tb.
Lines, right, 12.
Lines, P. P.,. 171 n.
Lion, 69.
Lion's head, 64 n.
Lotos 87' 99.
Lotos, 92 n.
Mace, 250.
Malice, 16.
Mallet, 20.
M.
Man, 71; with lion's head,
15; with elephant's head,
ib. ; with bird's head, ib.;
with do~s head, ib. ; with
ass's ana boar's head ib.
Mercy, 17; seat 77.
Misletoe, 144 n.
Monad, 179 n.
Moon, 100, 212.
Morality, no.
Motion of the Earth, 234.
Mouse, 16.
N.
Noah, 69.
Number THREE, 159.
Number, T!tree Hundred and
Sizty-jive, 33 n.
Number Three, 143 n.
o.
Oak, II.
Obedience, 77.
0. I. W., 34.
Omnipotence, 1'1.
Omnipresence, 17.
Osiris, 17 ; as sovereign of
the universe, 18.
Ox, 68.
P.
Palm Tree, 16.
Parallel lines, 20.
Perfect Ashler, 111.
Perpendiculars, 12.
Phallus, 185.
Phamix, 88.
Pickaxe, 20.
Plenty, 16.
Plumb, 21, llO.
Point, 174 ; within a Circle,
20, 169.
P. P. Lines, 171 n.
no,.ava, 124 n.
Power and authority, 16.
Power, 244.
Protection, 16, 77.
Providence, 16, 77.
Providence, 171 n.
Purity, 203.
Purple, 17.
R.
Rainbow, 93, 98, 99, 103,
184.
Reed, 11.
Righteousness, 194.
Right hand open, 16.
Right lines, 12.
Ring supported by Two
Serpents, 50.
Road to heaven, 111.
Rock, 99.
Rod or Staff, 16.
Rod, 242.
s.
Sagacity, 15.·
Sceptre, 249.
Sceptre and Eye, 17.
T
Digitized by Coogle
~72 INDEX TO TBB SYMBOLS.
Scythe, 122.
Secrecy, 16.
Sephiroth, 151.
Serpent, 40, 64 n.; and Egg,
17; casting his Skin, 18;
and Eye, 49.
Serpents, 45 n.
Serpents and Scorpions, 16.
Seven rays, 156 n.
Shekinah, 64, 79.
Shield, 200.
Sin, 18.
Skull, 21 ; and Cross Bones,
122.
Skyblue, 201.
Snake proceeding from a
Circle, 54.
Soul, 18.
Sphere 177.
Spirit, 65.
Sprig of Acacia, 126.
square, 20, 110 ; and Com-
passes, 20.
squares, angels, lines, and
perpendiculars, 12.
Staff, 247.
Star, 100.
Sun, 16, 100, 212.
Sun and Moon, 15.
Sun, Moon, andPlanets, 227.
Swarm of Bees, 124.
T.
Tau, 250.
Tetragrammaton, 28.
Three ~orked ~ightning,
142 n.
Three Points, 31; Great
Lights, 11o; Lesser Lights,
ib.; Staves, 150; Pillars,
130.
Thyrsil, 250.
Time, 174.
Tracing Board, 14, Ill.
Triad, 49, 138.
Triangle, equilateral, 31.
Trident, 142 n., 250.
Trigonon mysticum, 178.
Trowel, 14, 20. ,
Truth, 14, 194, 201. ·
Twig, 250.
Two perpendicular parallel
lines, 171.
u.
Understanding, 15.
Unity and Concord, 77.
Universe, 17; supported by
Power and Wisdom, 177.
v.
Valhall, the Scandinavian
Paradise, 183.
Wand, 250.
Water, 17.
w.
Well spent life, no.
Wheels, 171 n.
Wheels with Eyes, 77.
White, 17, 201.
White, 203 n.
Wisdom, 49; and Power, 50;
and Truth 53; andUnder-
standing, 15; Strength
and Beauty, 130.
Wolf, 16.
Y.
Y, Letter, 160.
Ydrasil, 162.
z.
Zodiac, 18.
l'JUJIIT8D BY WlLLIAJI WtLCOCKIOH, ROI.1.5 BUJLD1NH.
Digitized by Coogle
WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
Sold by Shertoood, Gilbert, ana Piper, Patemoster Row.
THE ANTIQUITIES OF FREEMASONRY, maps,
Svo. 12s.
THE STAR IN THE EAST, foolscap Svo. 5s. 6d.
THE HISTORY OF INITIATION, Svo. lOs. 6d.
The work is learned, curious, and ingenious.-Gentleman's Maga~eine.
A work, from which we do not doubt but our readers will derive both
amusement and instruction.-Imperial Mag(J,zine.
This will be a great acquisition to those who take an interest in such
studies. Even to the general reader it offers new and striking evidences
of the eccentricity of the human mind ; but the library of the Brother must
want one ofits lights, until it possesses this volume.-Weekly Review.
PRESTON'S ILLUSTRATIONS OF MASONRY,
Svo. &. Fourteenth Edition.
MASONIC SERMONS, preached before the Prov. Grand
Lodge, at Barton, Spalding, Lincoln, Sleaford, Grantham,
Boston, Horncastle, and Louth, 8vo. ls. each.
THE HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF BEVER-
LEY, 4to. £2 2s.
Dr. Oliver's History of Beverley is a topographical work of a supe~ior
order. The author has considered his subject with profound attention,
and digested his materials with the hand of a master. The arrangement
is clear and decisive, and lets you at once into the general nature ofhiSplan;
and the execution is highly credit&ble to his taste and judgment.-Theolo-
gical Quarterly Review.
We recommend this work to all lovers of Provincial Topography, and
most cordially wish that the author may reap from it all the honour and
emolument to which he is richly entitled.-Gentleman's Magazine.
THE MONUMENTAL ANTIQUITIES OF
GRIMSBY, plates, Svo. lOs. 6d.
To the lovers of Antiquarian lore, Dr. Oliver's will prove a very accept-
able volume. He bas fortunately met with a subject worthy to occupy his
researches, and has acquitted himselfofhis task in such a manner as to do
him much credit. W:e are glad to see ao able a successor has arisen to
pursue the investigations instituted by Toland, Davies, and others.-Hull
Advertiser.
THE HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF ST.
JAMES'S CHURCH, GRIMSBY, Svo. Is. 6d.
Digitized by Coogle
2
PASTORAL ADDRESSES from a Minister to his
Parishioners, 8vo. 3s. 6d.
AN ESSAY ON EDUCATION, 8vo. 2s. 6d.
THE APOSTOLICAL INSTITUTION OF THE
CHURCH EXAMINED, in Six Letters to R. M. Bever-
ley, Esq., 8vo. Is
A FAREWELL ADDRESS to the Inhabitants of
Grimsby, 12mo. 6d.
Thia a an interesting Addreal.-lkntlem.n's Mt~guiM.
AN ACCOUNT OF THE CORPUS PAGEANTS,
MIRACLE PLAYS, RELIGIOUS MYSTERIES, &:c.
which were practised at Sleaford in the fifteenth century; with
an Appendix containing the Traditions of Lincoln Heath,
Svo. 5s.
AN INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS to the Inhabitants
of Wolverhampton, 8vo. 6d.
We think the pamphlet before us is calculated to make a good impres-
aion. The language is well adapted to create the good feeling which 011ght
always to exist between parties 80 closel1 connected. We trust Dr. Oliver
will be met in a spirit strictly accordmg with the very friendly Addresa
which baa called forth these ~~ationa.-Wolverluunpton ChronW..
A SECOND PASTORAL ADDRESS to the Inhabi-
tants of Wolverhampton,, 6d. /
AN HISTORICAL AND DESCRIPTIVE AC-
COUNT OF THE'COLLEGIATE CHURCH OF
WOLVERHAMPTON. 8vo. 7s. 6d.
A work replete with local and general information.-WolverluJmpton
Chronicle.
To us, a work of this kind, 80 executed, baa peculiar worth and beauty.
It casts a golden halo about the past, and to the solemnesa of reality, adds
the dim religious light of poetry. Dr. Oliver does not lay before us the
mere dry bones of antiquity,but recommends his subject with all the graces
and refinements of a man of letters.-Freemasons' Quarterly RevillfiJ.
HINTS FOR IMPROVING SOCIETIES AND IN-
STITUTIONS CONNECTED WITH EDUCATION
AND SCIENCE, 8vo. Is.
Digitized by Coogle
