{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__anonymous___amorc_rosicrucian_art_of_absent_healing.pdf","mytitle":"Amorc Rosicrucian Art Of Absent Healing","mylang":"de"}
PERSONAL a n d PRIVATE
INSTRUCTIONS
• ♦ IN THE * .
^ R o sicru cian cA k t
OF
Absent
Healing
^Rgsicrucian cArt of cAbsent c3£ealing
. • w • .
P a r t I.
IM PORTANT PRELIM INARY INSTRUCTION
EFORE any member of the Rosicrucian Brotherhood attempts
to use the system outlined in this pamphlet, every word on
every page should be read carefully, and with concentrated
attention. Every paragraph is important, and nothing that is
has been put into this pamphlet.
The Sixth Grade of the higher Temple Monographs of our work con'
tains a complete system of healing intended for those of our members who
want to delve deeply into the uniquc Rosicrucian law's of contact healing.
This system of personal contact healing is different from any that has ever
been given by any of the oriental or occidental schools of metaphysics
except the Rosicrucians, and is especially valuable to physicians, nurses or
those healers who have had some practical experience in healing, though it is
very helpful to every member in maintaining perfect health in his family.
In some of the higher lessons various methods are presented and sug-
gestións outlined for the use of the Rosicrucian healing methods in giving
absent treatments instead of contact treatments. So many of our members
wish to co'operate with us in the giving of absent treatments, and also wish
to help their relatives, and friends who are suffering from various ailments,
that for this reason this special pamphlet has been compiled, outlining a
very thorough system of absent treatments based upon the principies con'
tained in the various grades of study. This pamphlet does not take the
place of the suggestions and instructions given on absent treatment in the
higher studies, but does enable those members in the lower grades to apply
some of these principies before reaching the higher grades.
It is necessary, therefore, that these instructions be followed very care'
fully, and that each step in the process of giving a treatment be followed
exactly as outlined herein. Reading this pamphlet several times and beconv
mg acquainted with each detail will bring a very large reward in the matter
of successful treatments.
unnecessary
W ARN ING
This little pamphlet is issued privately and exclusively to the members
of the AMORC. It is not to be sold, given or loaned to those tuho are not
members, and the matter contained in it is confidential, and comes under the
same protection given to all of our monographs.
THE N ATURE OF ABSENT TREATM ENTS
Absent treatments are those treatments given to a person at a distance,
whether that distance be a few feet, or many miles. Absent treatments may
be given to a person in an adjoining room, an adjoining building, a distant
city, or in any place or circumstance. The contact treatment referred to
previously in this pamphlet is a treatment that must be given at any time,
and in almost any circumstances. But there are very definite rules that must
be followed; and if these rules are ignored there will be a small percentage
of results obtained.
THE FIRST STEP
The first thing to remember in giving absent treatments is that the
greatest success will be obtained if the patient is anxious for some treatments
of this kind, and has as\ed for them. The patient need not know exactly
what kind of metaphysical treatment you are going to give, ñor need you
mention the fact that you are a Rosicrucian, or going to give Rosicrucian
treatments, if you do not care to do so; but the patient should know that
you are going to give metaphysical, or Divine, or Cosmic treatments; and
the patient should know that you are going to give treatments that are
based upon scientific as well as Cosmic laws, and not merely some form of
Divine treatment based exclusively upon prayers. But, whether the patient
knows anything about the kind of treatment you are going to give or not,
the patient should be willing that some form of Cosmic treatment be given
in addition to whatever other treatment he may receive from physicians,
doctors, nurses, or whomsoever. In other words, you will have less success
if you attempt to give treatments to persons who do not know that you are
going to do anything for them, or that you are going to petition the Cosmic
in their behalf. Therefore, your first step should be to ascertain whether
the person who wants your help desires some additional help to whatever
form of treatment he may be receiving. If you can cali him on the phone,
or visit him, or write to him, or someone in the family can do so and secure
an assurance that the patient will be glad to have you help with your form
of treatment, then you have made the first step that is very important.
THE SECOND STEP
If it is possible to do so, and you can arrange a period of time for your
trcatments when the patient can be in a relaxed condition to receive them,
you will have an additional feature of helpfulness that is of valué. Your
absent treatment can always be given at night when the patient is asleep,
and therefore in a relaxed condition. Such treatments can be given, of
course, without the patient arranging for any specific time. But, some addi-
tional treatments during the daytime are often necessary, and if these can
be given when the patient is sitting down or lying down in a relaxed condi-
tion for ten minutes, they will be of great valué. Therefore, if you can
arrange in most cases to have the patient lying down or sitting down in a
relaxed or quiet condition for ten minutes, say beginning at ten o’clock in
the morning, and again at three o’clock in the afternoon, or at any other
hour that is convenient to you and the patient, it will be an additional help.
If you cannot contact the patient or get in touch with him in any way to
make such an arrangement for daytime treatments, you will have to select
a period in the morning and a period in the afternoon for your treatments
when you think the patient needs them, or when it is most convenient to
you. Remember, that even when the patient is more or less active, moving
about, or thinking of other things, the Cosmic contact can be established to
almost the same degree as if the patient were sitting or lying down in a
relaxed position and mental attitude.
THE THIRD STEP
Be sure that you advise the patient and advise the relatives or friends
of the patient if you can explain anything to them about your work, that
they should not dismiss any physician, nurse, or other kind of helper who
may be aiding the patient to recover. The Rosicrucian system does not inter-
fere with anything that is being done for the patient by any system of
therapeutics, whether it is medical, physical, mental, or spiritual. In other
words, you must have it understood that you are not taking the place of the
physician they may have, ñor taking the place of any system they may be
using, but simply adding to what is being done without interfering in
any way.
You should also make it plain to everyone that what you are doing in
the way of giving absent treatments is in connection with your studies and
your work as a student of the Divine principies of life, and that you are not
posing as a professional healer (unless you are a licensed physician, nurse,
or healer of some kind) and that you are not making a business out of your
treatments, ñor charging any fees, and not trying to injure or defame the
character of any other system of healing, or any school of healing, or any
physician or healer.
EM ERGENCY TREATM EN TS
If you see persons injured in an accident or learn of a number of per-
sons who are hurt in an accident, and you wish to help them, you can use
this system by retiring somewhere, where you can be alone and unobserved,
and instantly give an absent treatment to those who need it without Consult­
ing them, or Consulting anyone else, and you will find, in most cases, that
your work has been of great valué. But, outside of such emergency cases it
is always better to ask a patient, especially if it is a friend or relative,
whether he wants the treatment from you or not. There is a Cosmic law for
this, and it is said that none of the great healers in the past, and that not even
Jesús, gave any treatments without being asked for them. When a person
asks for a treatment, or expresses a desire to have some help from any indi-
vidual, he automatically places himself in psychic and spiritual attunement
with that person, and this is very helpful.
Part II.
THE N ATURE OF THE TREATM ENTS
The system given in this pamphlet is not based upon faith treatments or
upon faith on the part of the patient. While it is true that it is helpful to
have the patient co'operate with you in relaxing and being quiet at certain
periods when you are giving the treatment, it is not necessary for him to do
anything else than put himself in a receptive mood. You do not have to build
up his faith by telling him what you are going to do, or how you are going
to do it; ñor do you need to tell him anything about the success you have
had with any other cases, or anything of this kind. You will find from
your experience in treating persons who are in co-operation with you, and
in treating persons who do not know you are treating them, that they have
the same sensations, and have the same strange realisation of your treat-
ments as do those who know that you are treating them. Of course, if a
person does not know you are treating him, he cannot be using his faith in
you to help. So, you must elimínate from your mind any idea that faith on
the part of the patient is necessary. But you must have faith in the system,
and have faith in the Cosmic to do what is right and essential! You must
not have faith in your ability as an individual, for you are not the one who
is doing the healing. God does all the healing that is done at any time, by
any system, whether medicine is used, electricity, surgery, prayer, massage,
or anything else. You are merely an instrument between the Cosmic forces
here on earth, and the patient, after having offered yourself to God and
the Cosmic to be such an instrument or channel. In fact, you are no more
the truc healer than is the delicate knife in the hands of the surgeon. His
wisdom is guiding the knife in doing certain things, and that same wisdom
that guides his hand will also guide the processes of nature in healing after
the surgical operation is ended. But just as the surgeon learns from experi'
ence to have faith in the knowledge he has obtained, and have faith in
nature’s processes to bring about certain results, so you must have absolute
faith in the system you are using, and never give a treatment with the idea
of merely seeing whether the system will work, or with a vague hope that
it will work. If you are not sure that what you are going to do for a
patient will help him, then do not give the treatment.
DIAGNOSING
Just because you are not doing the healing it is not necessary for you
to do any diagnosing. Of course you should always ask what it is that a
patient is suffering from, or what the doctors or others say it is, so that you
will know whether you are treating a brokcn bone, a toothache, an injury
to the head, a long'Standing disease, or what. But it is not necessary for
you to go into the minute details of asking how much temperature a patient
has (unless you merely want to check up on the results of your work in
reducing the fever), ñor do you have to know what the pulse is, ñor just
what symptoms in different parts of the body the patient claims, or anything
of this kind. And, for the same reason, in giving treatments you should not
attempt to determine how the cure should be made. This is the worst
blunder that any healer using Cosmic methods can make. It is equal to
trying to put yourself into the place of the Cosmic, and telling the Cosmic
just what to do for the patient. This is where nearly every other system of
healing fails, including medicine and surgery. It is impossible for the
patient, let alone a second person, to know exactly what is wrong inside of
an ill person, and exactly what should be done first, second, third, fourth,
etc., in the process of healing. If you leave the whole process to the Cosmic,
you will find that the cure is made better and more quickly than if you
attempt to visualice what should be done.
THE FIRST STEP
It is important, however, to ask some patients who have had a sudden
illness come upon them, what they have done in the days past to viólate
some of nature’s laws. If it seems that the disease or illness is due to wrong
eating, wrong living, wrong thinking, or rash acts of any kind, the patient
should be made to understand that if he, or she, continúes to viólate these
laws of nature, the illness will probably continué, regardless of any treat-
ments that are given. It is especially important to tell patients who are
suffering from an illness that has lasted many days and many weeks, or that
seems to be affecting the entire physical system, to keep in mind the fact
that hatred, jealousy, enmity, or any \ind of destructive thoughts held in
the mind of the patient toward any living being, will keep the patient from
getting well. Such is probably the cause of the illness.
In other words, the patient should be made to understand that if the
treatments are going to be helpful, the mind of the patient must be free
from all destructive mental attitudes, and the patient must discontinué any
acts of any kind that have been contrary to nature's laws. Overworking,
improper clothing in coid weather, exposure to the elements, working under
poor light, lack of exercise, overeating, or lack of nourishment, the wrong
combinations of food or drink, and many other things are violations of
nature’s laws which must be discontinued. These are the only recommenda-
tions that you should ever make to a patient.
SECOND W A RN IN G
Never prescribe any medicines, salves, tonics, drinks, pills, tablets,
diets, special foods, or anything of this kind, because according to the laws
in the various states such recommendations may be interpreted as prescrip'
tions, and you would be violating the medical laws, and placing yourself in
a serious predicament. You can tell those persons who want to know about
diet that there are many books easily secured from the library, or by writing
to various organisations, which outline diets and the proper combinations
of foods. T^ever ma\e any recommendations in writing that can be inter-
preted as a prescription, or a diagnosis, or a formula for treatment.
Recommending a glass of ordinary coid water (not any special form of
bottled water) is the only thing that you can safely recommend to a patient
without transgressing upon some law, and be sure that you, yourself, never
give this glass of water to any patient at a bedside, or elsewhere, but let
some member of the family do this for you.
THE SECOND STEP
First of all it is presumed that you are in good health at the time you
are giving treatments. If you are suffering from headaches, fatigue, or any
form of índisposition, mental or physical, you should not attempt to give
treatments while you feel in such mental or physical State. You should
always approach each treatment in a prayerful, spiritual, humble attitude.
You should be thankful of the opportunity to give a treatment, remcmber'
ing that as you serve the Cosmic in its work, the Cosmic will be willing and
ready to serve you. You should never be boastful about what you are doing,
ñor proud of your results. You should never accept a personal, individual
reward for your services, ñor allow yourself to be praised as one who has
special powers, except so far as your knowledge for treating is concerned.
Having arranged either a special period for your absent treatment, or
having selected a period that is suitable to yourself, and which may not be
known to the patient, your next step in the giving of a treatment is to sit
down where you can be quiet and alone, if possible, although such treat'
ments can be given while you are riding in a train, or even standing on
the Street.
The important thing for you to do is to cast aside your present where'
abouts, and with the concentration of your mind try to think of only two
factors— the patient who needs help, and the Cosmic powers about you who
will use your mind as a channel for the treatment. This is no place or time to
try to explain to you why the Cosmic uses your mind as a channel, for all
of this is covered in the lessons and monographs.
You need not try to visualice the patient so clearly that you can see
the patient, or feel his suífering, or anything of this kind, ñor should you
visualice the nature of his condition in minute detail, ñor attempt to visu­
alice the nature of the treatment that the Cosmic should give. You may
not even know the ñame of the patient, but merely know that it is a woman
or a man living in a certain part of the city, suífering from some general
condition that has been briefly explained to you, and whom you wish
to reach.
The Cosmic will take care of establishing the right connection if you
just think of the person who is now to receive the treatment through you,
After having established your mental attitude with these two thoughts in
mind— the patient and the Cosmic—'then you should take a very deep
breath and hold it as long as you can, and then slowly exhale it through the
nose with the mouth closed; and while you exhale you should hold the
thought that you are coming in mental and psychic contact with the patient.
Then you should offer some brief prayer to the Cosmic which you should
say mentally and silently. The prayer may be something like this: “I
humbly ask God and the Cosmic powers to send through me to the patient
the healing forces of the universe, and an awakening of the constructive,
Creative powers resident in the patient, that pain may discontinué and
normal condition return, leading to perfect health."
You can make the prayer longer if you wish, and you can repeat the
prayerful thoughts as many times as you wish, but do not attempt to tell
the Cosmic what to do in any specific form of treatment. Direct your
prayer to God and not to any individual “master”. OfFer yourself as the
channel of attunement and connection through which the treatment will
be given.
Keep repeating these mental thoughts and prayers for five or ten
minutes that you are giving the treatment. Five minutes will usually be
enough in ordinary cases of any condition, but in emergency cases where
accidents have occurred, and persons are rapidly losing blood through in-
jury, or are in intense pain, you may make the treatment of ten minutes1
duration. In such extreme cases a second treatment should follow within
an hour, and more should be given during the first twenty-four hours. In
all ordinary cases of illness a treatment during the morning, one during the
afternoon, and another one at night when the patient is aslecp will be suffi'
cient for each twenty-four hours.
THE THIRD STEP
As soon as you have finished the five to ten minute penod of concen-
tration, you should express a short prayer of thankfulness to God and the
Cosmic for this opportumty to help, and then rise from your position of
concentration and go about your affairs with an attitude of complete con-
fidence that the Cosmic is at work and continuing the constructive healing
work in the body of your patient. You should have no question or doubt
in your mind that the treatment is at work, ñor should you have any doubt
in your mind that you have reached the patient. Your mental attitude at
this point is very important, and it should be a humble attitude as well as
one of extreme confidence.
It is not necessary for you to think of the patient between the treat-
ments. Keep in mind whatever schedules you have arranged for the patient
and adhere strictly to them.
NIGHT TREATM ENTS
One of the most successful periods for night treatments is when it is
between two and three in the morning in the place where the patient lives.
If the patient is very distant from you, then the hour from two to three a.m.
where the patient lives may be three or four where you live, or one or two
where you live. The important period is between two and three a.m. in the
district where the patient lives. This is the hour when persons who are ill
are in closest Cosmic and psychic contact, and in a very special psychic
receptive condition. And it is the hour when our special workers at head-
quarters give hundreds of treatments. Whether the patient be sound asleep,
or only drowsy and quiet and relaxed, this psychic hour of the morning is
very eífective.
After several days of treatments you should have somebody report to
you the condition of the patient. Each day should show excellent improve*
ment in all ordinary cases, but in cases where the physical condition of the
patient has continued for years or many months, a longer period of treat-
ment will be necessary; in some cases it may require several weeks of daily
treatment to bring about the results that are desired.
SPECIAL IM PORTANT POINTS
Remember that any system of healing that claims that it can cure any
illness in each and every case is misrepresenting the facts. Transition is in-
evitable in the life of every person, and it is one sure thing that will come
to every human being. There comes a time in the life of every living being
when transition must take place, and that time may be in the first year of
Ufe, or in the hundredth year of life, or in any of the years intervening.
Regardless of how well and healthy the person may have been, when the
Cosmic decrees that transition is due, something will happen, and the
patient will either become ill, or have an accident, or suddenly break down
in health, or sense some strange condition. If it is the Cosmic’s decree that
transition is to occur, then nothing that any system of treatment can do
will prevent it, and any claim on the part of any physician or healer, or any
Divine School of healing, that perfect health can always be maintained, and
that the breaking down of the physical system is unnecessary, is a misrepre-
sentation, and leads to many sorrowful disappointments. Therefore, you
will occasionally have a case for treatment where nothing that you have
done, or anyone else has done, has prevented the Cosmic law being fulfilled,
and transition coming in due time.
Occasionally some illnesses are the direct result of wilfully wrong
actions on the part of the patient such as overdrinking, or drinking of
poisonous liquors, or of overeating, overworking, or of the committing of a
crime or violent outbreak of temper. Such illnesses are often decreed by
the Cosmic not as a form of punishment, but in order to teach a lesson, and
in such cases the Cosmic may be a little slower in restoring normal health,
than in other cases; and if you find that a patient is continuing to remain
ill in spite of the treatments you have asked the Cosmic to give, you should
not attempt to pass judgment. Never let anyone hear you say that the
patient’s illness is a Cosmic punishment, or a Cosmic law, or a Karmic
manifestation, for you are then attempting to be a judge and to pass sen-
tence. Simply state that you have done your utmost and that you are con-
fident that the Cosmic will do what is best for the patient, and that they
should be patient and not doubt, but wait for the ultímate results.
In treating persons who have very severo colds it should be noted that
the treatment you give them between two and three in the morning will
usually cause them to perspire very freely before six in the morning, and
you should advise such patients to keep themselves well covered in bed, and
not to throw off the covers, or attempt to get up if they are overheated or
perspiring. Such patients should remain in bed the next morning until
noontime in order to have the effects of the perspiration gradually pass
away. One such treatment will usually be sufficient to break up a coid.
You will be greatly interested in noting the manner in which the patient
perspires, and the fever and congestión are reduced. It will be helpful in
such cases, if not in nearly all cases, to tell the patient when you can that
he should drink a glass of ordinary coid water just before retiring. This
will help in the treatment that is given between two and three in the
morning.
Never attempt any contact treatments where you have to put your
hands on the patient’s body, ñor use any of the peculiar methods that some
schools use such as blowing your breath on parts of the patient's body. Stick
strictly to the system outlined here in this pamphlet.
Do not feel that as an instrument for the treatments you will absorb
or take on yourself some of the patient’s conditions through absent treat'
ments. While it may be true that in some cases your sympathetic feeling
for the patient’s suffering may cause you to sense some of his suffering, this
sensation on your part will disappear as soon as you are through the treat'
ment, and is not due to any psychic transference of the condition.
Patients who are going through an operation at the hands of some
competent surgeon in a hospital or elsewhere can be helped by you if at
the exact moment of the operation you send an absent treatment for
strength and the awakening of the Creative constructive forces in the
patient's body to keep them in action throughout the operation, and im-
mediately thereafter. If the patient happens to be unconscious at the time
of the operation through an anesthetic of some kind, he may even sense you
during the treatment, and if he is not unconscious he will know you have
been helping him, and the pain will be less severe.
Children are very sensitive to absent treatments, and so are elderly
adults. Many others do not sense you during the treatment and do not feel
that a treatment has been given, but notice the effects later on.
It is the hope of the ínstructors at the headquarters of A.M.O.R.C.
that the members of our organization will use this system, and any
other means taught in our lessons to help anyone and everyone in their
personal problems of life to the utmost degree, and thereby help us to
carry on the great work of the organization. It is the desire of the organ­
izaron to see its members become instruments in the Service of mankind so
that every member will be a potential power for good in the human brother-
hood. Do not fail to review some of the early lessons of the Neophyte
Grades wherein advice is given regarding the causes of illness, and disease,
so that you will be familiar with certain fundamental laws. Make yourself
an intelligent and eíEcient worker in the organization. W e always will be
glad to have you report to us the results of any extraordinary cases that have
been helped through the use of the Rosicrucian system.
PLEASE REMEMBER
1. Never criticize any other system of healing or surgery. A Rosi-
exudan recognizes in every known system many good points, and the
great good that has been accomplished for humanity through s\ich systems.
2. Never discuss with a patient the good or bad eífect of any pre-
vious forms of treatment given by anyone. Neither you ñor the patient
are properly qualified to understand what good has really been accomp-
lished by any other previous treatments.
3. Never encourage the discontinuance of any form of treatment
which the patient may be using for the other systems, methods, or treat­
ments may be accomplishing some good of which you know nothing, and
of which the patient knows little. You are not to supplant t.he work of
any other system, or any other physician, but to add to the good that
is being done and to give additional or extra help.
4. Never prescribe anything in the way of medicine, remedies, or
accessories by specifically mentioning the ñames of any things to be taken
inwardly, or applied externally. This is not your field, ñor your privilege,
ñor your right. Use the Rosicrucian methods entirely, and leave every-
thing else to licensed physicians to recommed or use.
11
5. Do not accept any fees for your work unless you are a licensed
or registered and recognized physician, and are charging for your time
of labor, and not for the treatments.
6. Be sure that you are well and in good health, and that you are
neat, tactful, polite, tolerant, and thankful for the opportunity to serve.
7. Keep a careful note of all of your work in a diary or some book
to which you can refer at any time in the future, and know just what
treatments you gave to each and every patient, and when, and where,
and why, and what the results were.
8. Co'operate with every Rosicrucian activity of helpfulness, espe-
cially the Sunshine Circles and Welfare Committees in your community if
there are any, and if there are none sec that you do your utmost to estabh
ish such committees of helpfulness as soon as possible by writing to the
Secretary of the Sunshine work, in care of AMORC Temple, San José,
California.
R
O
S
IC
R
U
C
IA
NB
R
O
T
H
E
R
H
O
O
D
A M é R C
SAN JO SE, CALIFORNIA
R O S I C R U C I A N P R E S S , L T D .
( P R I N T E D I N U . S . A . )
