{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__poyen___letter_to_col_william_l_stone.pdf","mytitle":"Letter To Col William L Stone","mylang":"de"}
LETTER TO COL. WM. L. STONE,
OF NEW YORK,
ON THE FACTS RELATED IN HIS
LETTER TO DR. BRIGHAl\1, •••••
AND A PLAIN
REFUTATION OF DURANT'S EXPOSITION
OF
A N I M A L M A G N E T I S 1\f , & c .
BY CHARLES~YEN. <' • -
,--..) I f 1 . '--
' I
WITH
REl\IARKS ON THE MANNER IN WHICH THE CLAil\IS OF
ANil\iAL MAGNETISM SHOULD BE MET AND
DISCUSSED.
BY A :ftiE.DIBER OF THE ..lUASSACHUSETTS BENCH.
' ~I
BOSTON:A
WEEKS, JORDAN AND COMPANY,
121 "Washington Street,
NEW YORK:-C. SHEPARD.
1837.
il
,,
~,..
•
Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1837,
By WEEKs, JoRDAN & Co.
In the Clerk's Office of the District of Massachusetts.
'ruTTLE, DENNETT & C~usHOLM.....PnxNTEns..... l7 Sc11ooL STREET.
-
ADVERTISEMENT. Ill II
THE reader will probably notice that the philo-
sophical vie\VS expressed in my letter to Col. Stone,
about the mode of mental communication between
the magnetiser and the magnetised person, some-
\Vhat resemble what Mr Durant, the late glorious
exploder of animal magnetism, calls "'his theory."
I must confess that such a resemblance exists; Mr
Durant will not fail, therefore, to charge me \vith
plagiarism; he will probably think that I have
robbed him of the "beautiful product of his genius."
But I would affirn1 here, that if any one has robbed
the " theory" at all, Mr Durant is the only robber.
What he boldly pretends to be his invention, has
been for years professed and published in every
possible shape by the German and French writers
on animal magnetism. I have myself adopted the
main parts of this theory ever since I have paid a
serious attention to the matter ; I have invariably
devoted two hours and more to explaining it to my
classes, wherever I had an opportunity of giving
my whole course of lectures. I have no doubt,
therefore, that Mr Durant has either read or heard
I
li ..,;/.i-
1
(j
.
1111
ill
IIJ
~.I
·11
·II
.II
Ill
.,, ~
'
H
,I
~I
I
f,
I
I
.I
I
I
.I
, I
I
I
I
4
about it ; but as he seems to regard every one be-
sides himself as a fool, he does not hesitate in pre-
senting~ doctrine as a " creation of his o'vn,"
persuaded_as he is that nobody \viii detect the fraud.
We intend, in some of the following pages, to offer a"-'
-lQI ~xtract from Dr Rostan's Memoir concerning this
theory. Those who have read Mr Durant will see,
on perusing that extract, what an enormous differ-
ence there is between· a truly scientific man and
an ignorant scribbler, who boldly assumes the privi-
lege of treating on rnatters so far above and be-
yond his capacity.
I will add a word more. My letter to Col. Stone
was prepared, and I had already lectured most
of its contents before my class in Salem, even
before I had heard of Mr Durant's book. Those
who have attended those lectures, may testify to
the truth of what I now advance.
C. P.
•
I .
LETTER. T 0 C 0 L. ST 0 N E .
SALEM, MASS. OCT. 9, 1837.
To Col. W. L. Stone, of New York.
SIR.-You are aware that the undersigned has been enga-
ged, for some time past, in lecturing upon the "science of
Animal Magnetism, in reference to \vhich you have lately
published an interesting narrative of facts. I trust, there-
fore, that you "viii not be surprised at the liberty I take of
thus addressing you on the san1e subject. In ..my well kno\vn
capacity as a professor of Animal Magnetism, I O\Ve it to the
cause of truth and of general information to communicate to
the reading cornmunity, the- remarks which the facts contain-
ed in your above mentioned publication have suggested to rne.
I atn, moreover, strongly induced to do it from the circum-
• stan' that you _have particularly alluded to me, and I must
confess, in no flattering terms, by any n1eans ; some of your
allusions deserve a frank auswerlit••1(ny part. Do not be- l/la_.
lieve, however, that I shall indulge i ny harsh i1npulse, and
make this letter a personal concern ! I hope, on the contrary
that you will find me cool and respectful throughout my com-
munication with you.
Feeling, as I do, a lively interest in the progress of mag-
netism in this country, looking \vith an anxious, but intpartial
eye upon every thing that is lvritten upon it, I have read with
much satisfaction your letter to Dr Brigham ; I believe it has
contributed more than any thing hitherto done, to prepare the
mind of a great many to a candid investigation of the matter;
and on that account, it will mark in the history of the deve-
I
,I
·II
f
:I
I
I
'
IJ
ij;
,,:
1.1'.
I I
I
I
:!
_.JlA
6
lopment of the '' science" in this country ! But, sir, like
every thing else that emanates fro1n man's hands, it presents,
to my mind, some defects which I beg leave to signalize here,
for enabling people to have a more clear and correct under-
standing of the matter upon which you write.
Your pamphlet is entitled, '' A Letter on Animal Magnet-
ism ;" and yet it appeared to me, on perusing it, that your plan
was not to ascertain the reality of the peculiar agent or prin-
ciple called Animal 1\fagnetism. The experiments made by
you on Miss Brackett, seen1 not to have been intended to
thro\v any light upon the interesting question, viz. "whether one
human being can exercise an influence over another, by the
sole force of his will." Such a po\ver undoubtedly exists,
and it properly constitutes what has been termed animal mag-
netism.; In the opinion of all truly philosophic men, it has
always been, and is still considered, the most profound and im-
portant point of the whole subject. It appears, sir, that you
were not aware of this fact, and I regret very much that in
your intervie\v 'vith Dr Capron's patient, you did not direct
your attention towards eliciting ·some phenomena with the
view of demonstrating the reality of the po\ver in question.
Such results, published by you, would have proved not only
gratifying to the marvellousness of your readers, but alsl use- f
ful to the science of the psychological constitution of man.
And I know, that Mit•twlaffords ample means for estab-
lishing the point allude'J to, or at least substantiating what has
already been observed. and written upon it. I have myself,
seen her twice under the influence of Dr Capron and Mr
Arne. J. Potter, of Providence ; I have found that she was
exceedingly sensible to the action of the will, and still more
so to the approach of the magnetiser's fingers towards her
hands and head, even .at the distance of several inches. The
power of the will, is in n1y opinion the best ascertained of all
the magnetic phenomena ! Out of twenty somnambulists,
eighteen at least, are submitted to it in a very remarkable de-
gree.
~7
.. • _The extraordinary phen'k~na prod~ced by that in~ue~ce
iii~\ C?Viitll\ tllemonstrate the ·existence m man, of a prmCJple
hitherto unknown, and of a force which had not yet been no-
ticed and exercised ; through then1, auin1al magnetism is rais-
ed to the rank of positive science, as well as physiology, pa-
thology and mental philosophy. 'I atn aware that you deny
this point ; it is surely because you have not yet witnessed
and carefully studied the effects produced by the \vill, or the
cerebral force of man !
Your sole object seems to have been to satisfy yourself
about the faculty of Clairvoyance, or the power of seeing,·the
eyes remaining perfectly closed, even bandaged. The expe-
riments tried by you, for that purpose, \Vere ingenious and
well condueted, considering that you had no experience at all
in the matter you \Vere investigating ; every candid reader
will acknowledge that the results obtained by you are exceed-
ingly interesting ; but again, sir, they prove n~thing so far as
the magnetic influence is concerned. The class of pheno-
mena described in your pamphlet were already known to
every \veil read man, as a characteristic feature of the ecsta-
tic state, of natural somnambulism and certain cases of cata-
lepsy and hysteria.
The '' possessed nuns" (so called) of the convent of Lou-
dun, in 1642, the French prophets or trembleurs des Ceren-
nes, the Convulsionnaires de St. 'Medard, and other ecstatic
persons ; the cataleptic patients 9f Drs Petetin, of Lyons, of
Barbier of Cantal, and a crowd of other individuals affected
with similar nervous disorders (see Rapports et discussions,
de 1'Academie de Medecine sur le Magnetisme, publies avec
des notes explicatives, par ~L P. Foissac, &c.; also, Traite
du Somnambulisme, par Alex. Bertrand) had offered innu..
merable instances ofthe faculty ofseeing even through what we
call " opaque bodies," and their eyes retnaining shut. The
same power has been, on several occasions, observed in this
country, particularly in the well known cases of the Spring-
field and Hartford somnambulist, in the cataleptic woman of
••.. '
l'l
~·.1
I
I
..
I.
(
[I
• 8~
Uxbridge, Mass., who has bee~sometime under the care offL.
Dr Robbins, and was carefully'~xamined by Dr f
1
II+ Par--- •
sons of Providence, and other distinguished indiviru;is !
There is novv in the town of Chesterfield, N. H., a natural
somnmnbulist, whose clairvoyance is truly astonishing so far
as I can judge from what I have been told by some very re-
spectable eye witnesses.
The faculty of seeing at a great distance and through unu-
sual ways, is likewise a well established fact in some parts
of Scotland, under the name of " second sight." A remark-
able instance of the kind vvas personally observed in London,
and related to me by Dr S. G. Howe, director of the In-
stitution for the Blind, whom no one acquainted ·with him,
\viii suspect of credulity.
I dp not pretend, I beg you to understand, that magnetic
or artificial somnambulists do not possess the faculty of clair-
voyance ; far from it; I am fully convinced that some of them
have it in a very extraordinary degree, although it is liable to
be irnpaired, and even entirely lost, under certain circutn-
stances, which I need not to mention here. I have seen a
number of that species of somnambulists who could see ob-
jects and read several lines through the top of their head,
their forehead, or the pit of their stomach ; there could be
no collusion or deception in the case, as the eyes were either
kept shut by the fingers of another person, or very carefully
bandaged. I have no doubt, therefore, that some of those
who are thrown into the state of somnambulism by a magne-
tic operation possess the faculty of clairvoyance ; I mean to
say only that this faculty, however remarkable it may be, does
not prove that one human being can exercise a mental in-
fluence over another through a peculiar means of communica-
tion, a fluid, if you .Please to call it so, moved and directed
by th~ will. The faculty of clairvoyance is a natural gift ; it
is spontaneous and springs fron1 certain peculiarities of organ-
ization belonging exclusively to the magnetised person ; it
cannot be given or comrnunicated by the magnetiser, how-
r
9
ever great the energy and activity of his will may be, to a
somnambulist ·who does not possess it naturally. Some au-
thors pretend that this faculty derives from a great accumula-
tion of the vital fluid in the optic nerve, ·which gives an ex-
traordinary delicacy and energy to the whole organ of sight ;
others think that it is exercised through the medium of a pe-
culiar fluid, more subtle, nice, and powerful than common
li~ht, spread throughout the universe and penetrating all bodies
of nature, however opaque they may appear to be to our or-
dinary means of vision. It is not my object to discuss here
the value of these opinions. I \viii say only that coinpara-
tively a Jew somnambulists have the gift of clairvoyance,
and that a magnetiser cannot impart it to those who have been
denied it by nature.
I now proceed to a few remarks on the character of the
A ~~ r!llated.~. i.n your letter to DI•'. Brigham. I have already·. . ~
~aid ~ry candid reader carw but find them exceedingly ' .•~
inter~; yet, I did not intendto say that they prove in a I\
conclusive manner the reality of the faculty of clairvoyance,
" so far as the power of seeing at a great distance, is concern-
ed;'' it is on the contrary, rny opinion, that l\Iiss Brackett's
ans\vers to your questions, although surprisingly correct, did
not demonstrat~ in the least, that she actually '' saw the vari-
. . ous particu:Ws described by you, ,in a place situated t\vo hun-
dred miles from her !" How can you account for the cor-
rectness of her ans\vers? will you say:~Do you suppose that
I meant to deceive ? not at all.-Do you suppose there was
connivance bet\veen us ? neither ! I am going presently to
tell you ho\v I explain all this. It is a fact \veil established
by the daily observation of all magnetisers, both of Europe
and America, that from the moment a person is put into som-
nambulism, he becomes capable of appreciating correctly and
seizing the thoughts, the \vill, and feelings, not only of his
magnetiser, but also of those \vho are put in close cominuni-
cation \vitl~im. This surprising and very interesting mode
of knowledge is doubtless imparted to the sotnnambulist
2
I
f
~!I·
lf
,I
,!Ill
'l
l/r1
•...·;
,..
n;
•"•
,
I
,I
I
II
Jl
10
through an emanation of some kind, (call it, if you please,
the spirit, the 1nagnetic or vital fluid) which springs from the
brain of the hvo parties and thus forms about thmn a peculiar
atmosphere, the fluctuations or movements of which yary ac-
cording to the direction given by the organ from 'vhich the ,
fluid originates. The brain of the 1nagnetiser or of the per-
son placed in communication, is the active instrument or ap-
paratus, every operation of which necessarily impresses a new
moven1ent and direction to the fluid, which moven1ent is more
or less clearly felt by the corresponding analogous organ, viz.
the brain of the somnatnbulist, and thus creates herein the
same modifications as those-which exist in the organ of the
other party. Such modifications constitute what \Ve call
thought, reasoning, &c. &c.
Thes.e vie,vs, sir, do not belong to me exclusively ; I have
no claim on their discovery or invention ; I adopt the1n be- ·
., cause they appear rational(nd be~r some analo~~ertain,fl
· la\vs already known of the electnc and galvanic phenomena.
I adopt thern besides, because they have been sanctioned and
openly professed by men of great intellect and high scientific
attainn1ents, as the German physiologists, Autenrieth and
Reil, the celebrated de Humbolt, and most of the eminent
\vriters on animal nwgnetisn1. I will quote here a few lines
from a distinguished author whose name cana. but have a alt
great \veight in the mind of every well i6tormed man.
After describing the manner in \vhich the nervous atmos-
phere is formed, Dr Rostan (see his Essay on Animal Mag-
netism, in the eighth volume of the Dictionnaire de Mede-
cine,) continues thus, ''The active nervous atmosphere of
the magnetiser mingles with the passive nervous atmosphere
of the magnetised person ; this one is, thereby, influenced in
such a manner that ~is power of attention is n1omentarily
abolished ; and both, the impressions which he receives in-
wardly and those that are transmitted to him by the magneti-
ser, resort to his brain through another channel.'
" The nervous agent possesses, like caloric, the faculty of
penetrating through solid bodies ; a faculty which is, doubtless,
•
11
limited ; but can satisfactorily explain how somnambulists,
mey be influenced through partitions, walls, doors, &c. also
it accounts for their perceptions of the savorous and odorous
qualities, through certain bodies, which in the natural state
c:mnot be penetrated by those particles. The innumerable
facts which prove in an ind~sputable rp.anner that the magnetic
action can be exercised through solid bodies, and that the
presenc-
e of those bodies does not prevent clairvoyance,·com-
pel us to admit that the nervous or magnetical agent must pass
through them. This is no more astonishing than light pass-
ing through diaphane or transparent substances, electricity
pas:
s,ing through the conductive bodies and caloric penetrat-
ing all sorts of bodies. The mingling of the two nervous at-
mospheres afibrds a very clear explanation of the communi-
cation of the 'wish and will, even of the thoughts of the
magn,
etis.er to the magnetised person. The wish and will,
being '' ttfltions of the brain, this organ transmits them to. the
circumference of the body through the channel of the nerves,
and 1-vhen the two nervous atmospheres happen to meet each
other, they are so Inuch identified as to form but one ; both
individuals become one only ; they feel and think together ;
but one of them (the somnambulist) is constantly under the
depe,ndence of the other, \vhile in the magnetic state~"
In the natural state we are not capab~e of feeling the fluid
above mentioned and experiencing its various movements, so
as to become conscious of it ; it is surely because in the na-
tural state the vital energy is thrown too much out\vardly ;
the life of relation is then predominant and constantly keeps
our power of attention and feeling upon external objects !
But through the profound change determined in the functions
of the nervous systen1, .during the state of somnambulism,
catalepsy, or ecstacy, 've are enabled to hold, 'vith a being or-
ganized as we are, a communication more or less perfect,
according, of course, to the respective inward organic dispo-
sitions and capacity of the t\vo parties. Indeed somnambul·
ism and ecstacy are particularly characterized by a suspension,
I
I . , ~
,
I I
1
II
1
.1
, 'I
II
. I
1'.·1
.\
)II
~~~
.u
~·.~..·j.
·.l
I
II
I
12
for the time being, of the life of relation, whereas an inward
sense, deriving from a great concentration of the vital energy,
seems to be developed.
It is not, Sir, the object of this letter to expose the philosophy
of animal n1agnetism ; I content myself \vith setting do\vn in
eneral terms, only such principles as are needed for a cor-
rect apprehension of my critical re~narks. Whether my
theory be rational or not, people will judge ! for myself, I
care but little about it ! I \Vish only to establish facts, and to
give them their proper value. Now, I hold it to be a \Veil-
authenticated fact, that the will and thought can be colnmuni-
cated ·without the aid of language or sign, whatever the medi-
urn of that communication may be ; out of fifty somnambulists,
you \viii find upwards of forty who will present this order
of phe11omena to a certain degree ! I have seen, produced
and read innumerable instances of it ; therefore, I believe it
as much as my own existence ; I believe it, also, because I
can account for it through philosophical principles, as I
have above briefly stated. On the contrary, the faculty of
seeing things that are transpiring at a great distance, "in
cities, for instance, where the sornnantbulist never was in his
life, the situation and peculiar distribution of which he does
not know and perhaps never read about," is wholly incom-
prehensible, and is not, indeed, substantiated by good author-
ity ; I have never observed nor ever read any instance of it
in the scientific authors who have written upon animal magne-
tisnl and so IJLambulisrn. I cas y conceive and am willing
to admit, that certain son1nambulists and ecstatic perso~s
have been able to see objects at a distance, but it was "in
places where they had been, and the exact situation of which
they previously knew ;" they had, thus, the means of direct-
ing their faculty of vision through the country, and take cog-
nizance of things and perS'ons rnore or less accurately, accord-
ing to the extent of this power in them. But it is totally
inconceivable, that they can see equally well in places, about
\Vhich they have no previous correct impression in their
13
mind ! Suppose yourself a somnambulist, gifted \vith a high
degree of clairvoyance. Ho\v could you distinguish one par-
ticular house or street out of the imrnense variety of streets
~~d houses which form the cities of Paris, London, New
York, &c., if you have never been in those places, or ac-
quired by reading a perfect idea of them ?
I am perfectly a\vare that numerous facts, exactly similar
to those related in your pamphlet, have been observed by
other gentlemen in the city of Providence and other places ;
hut fo~ all- of them I can account in the same 'vay ; viz.
through the faculty that somnambulists possess of compre-
hending the thoughts and feelings of those \vho are put in
clo~e communication \Vith them ; -in other \vords, of expe-
riencing in their brain the modifications existing in the same
organ of the other party. This being the most rational and
scientific m.ode for explaining the above-n1entioned pretended
phenomena of clairvoyance, I adopt it sooner than to believe
that they can see in the \Vonderful and \vholly inexplicable
manner of vvhich we have been speaking.
I \Viii presently quote a fe\v instances of the con1munication
of thought and of the influence of the will, \vhic 1 a_ e very
well calculated to illustrate the correctness of my views, -
and are not less \Vonderful and conclusive than those describ-
ed in your narrative.
'' The phenomena of the con1rr1unication of thought and of
the influence of the 'viii \vere the first that 'vere observed by
the 1\llarquis of Puysegur, 'vhen he discovered the state of
somnambulism. In the very interesting letter 'vritten by him
to some friends ..of his, immediately after \vitnessing those
singular effects in the first somnambulist he had, he says, ' I
obliged him (Victor) to move a great deal on his chair, as
though he \vas dancing by a tune, which by singing mentally
only, I caused hint to 1"epeat alotld.' "
Fournier, in his Essai on the probabilities of 1\Iagnetic
Somnambulism, d·wells principally on this phenomenon, as
being the most co1nmon and important. He says, page 48,
'l
r'
lt::
···I
11•1
l;.i
"
.
~!.:;
~.1·
~1'
,,
r•1
~II
tl'! I
h
l·r
,,,
!ill
I
.,. '
' '
I
'I'
'·I
1·11
I
.,
t:
I
14
that " he saw a somnambulist, rwhom he willed to get up
and take a hat laying on the table in the entry, and to put it
on the head of a certain person of the company." I did not
speak a word, says he, but only made a sign which traced
out the line which I wish the so1nnambulist to follow. I
must observe that he had a bandage over his eyes all the
time ; he rose from his chair, followed the direction indicated
with my finger, approached the table and took the hat lVhich
was laying on it, among many other objects, and . . . . put
it on the head of the very person I meant.
I might quote a large number of such facts from foreign
authors on magnetism, of undoubted veracity and merit ; but
I prefer to refer to some of the same description, ·which have
occurred in this country, as being probably more interesting
and trustworthy to the American reader.
. ~
At one of 1ny exhibitions in Pawtucket, some nine months
ago, a medical gentlemen fron1 Providence handed to n1e a
bit of paper, upon which this sentence was written : "Ask
ntentally to the somnambulist how far it is from Pawtucket
to Providence." I put the question to her, without either a
sign made or a ·word spoken : after some effort of attention,
she answered distinctly, "four miles from one bridge to the
other,'' which is the correct distance.
At another exhibition in Boston, I ·was requested by an
eminent gentlemen then present, to '' will the somnambulist
to rise from the sofa upon ·which she \Vas sitting, and to go
and take another seat ;" I stood about twelve feet fro1n her,
and mentally put her the command. She shook her head neg-
atively, as though she was refusirtg to do something. I then
asked her why she did shake her head so : '' You want me
to move from my seat ; I don't want to." In reference to
this fact, Mr Wil1iam Jenks of Boston, who had witnessed it,
says in an article inserted by hi1n in the Recorder of Feb. 17,
1837, " Farther and more strange to our experience, while
the eyes of the somnambule continue closely shut (the experi-
ments have been tried too with bandaged eyes,) and while no
...
15
'gestur:e or sound is used,' I saw the 'magnetiser' ask the
'rnagnetised' a question, (suggested on the spot, and secretly
by .a bystander,) and heard the ' magnetisee' answer audibly
and correctly.''
A scientific gentleman, who attended the experiments per-
fornled in Pa\vtucket by the Rev. Mr Daniel Greene, told
me that at his ·written request, Mr Greene willed " that a piece
of apple., which he held in his hand, would become a chestnut
burr for the somnambulist." He, in consequence;handed it to
her, anrl immediately she begun to scratch her hand and com-
plain that it was full of prickles. " What is the cause of it ?"
" Why, you give me a chestnut burr." Mr Greene, it is
well known, has made himself celebrated in Rhode Island for
the wonderful po\ver that he exercises by his will only upon
his patients.
Mr George W ellmarth of Taunton, related to me the fol-
lo\ving admirable instance of communication "of thought that
occurred under his own operation.. He was requested by a
\vitness to ''will his somnan1bulist to quote Byron's \veil
known song, the ' Isles of Greece.' " Mr W ellmarth 'inen-
tally pronounced the first verse, and l\fr Andros,* the som-
narnbulist, starting from the last words repeated by the mag-
netiser, recited the \vhole song. Mr W ellrnarth " willed him
again to recite another passage ; he said that he did not know
it by heart, but that he knew where it \Vas in the book, and
\Vould show it to him. Indeed, the somnambulist got up,
walked towards the library, \Vith his eyes perfectly shut, took
the volume, and after[Iooking over it a\vhile, pointed out the
precise verses that had been indicated to him."
Innumerable instances of the sarne kind might be offered.
I will mention a fe\v more ; the two following took place last
night, in presence of forty of the most respectable citizens of
the city of Salem, Mass. A young lady of the place \vas put
into;the magnetic sleep by~a men1ber of 1ny class, Dr Fisk, a
surgeon dentist. " A tumbler of \Vater ·was presented to the
*An intelligent and amiable student in medicine, at 'I'auntou, :Mass.
r
I .
il
,,,
!
16
operator, with the ' written request that he \Vould turn the
liquid into brandy for the somnarnbulist.' The tumbler \Vas,
in consequence, handed to her ; she drank so1ne o'f it ; and
being asked what it was, she exclaimed apparently in dis-
pleasure, ' it is rum,.' A moment afterwards, the magnetiser
\Vas again requested to spill a little of the water upon her
hand, \villing it to be ' hot rum.' So he did, and immedi-
ately the so1nnambulist began to move her hands and wipe
the1n against her go,vn. Being asked \vhat was the matter,
she said that some hot rum had been dropped on her
hands."
A person under my care, being in the n1agnetic sleep, a
medical gentlemen passed me ten or t\velve grains of aloes,
contained in a paper, and requested me by writing to " \Viii
it to be sugar for the somnan1bulist." Aloes is kno\Vn to be
an e.iceedingly bitter drastic. The somnambulist tasted it,
and exclaimed, " it is beautiful." I asked her what it \Vas.
'' Confectionary sugar," said she, and then swallo\ved a
tongue full of it, \vith apparently much pleasure. But soon
the medicine acted on her stomach, and she became quite
sick.
On another evening, her eyes being blindfolded, a bunch of
\vhite grapes \Vas held over her forehead by a gentleman of
the company. I asked her what it \vas. '' It is a bunch of
\vhite fruit,'' said she. "Well, what is the name of it ?"
" I do not know ; I cannot remember it." Then I looked
at her, and mentally articulated the\vord ''grape," \villing her
to repeat it. Instantly she shook her head, signifying that
she understood me, and repeated aloud, " it· is a bunch of
grapes."
The faculty of understand~ng the thoughts and will of those
who cmne in comrnunication \Vith them, was like\vise remark-
ably developed in the ecstatic somnambulists, 1st. the '' pos-
sessed nuns" of Loudun, the French Prophets or Shakers of
the Cevennes, the Convulsionnaires de St. Medard, &c.
This phenomenon was so con11non and striking, that it \vas
17
considered as the first proof of the reality of the possession,
~ ~ease of the eestatie nuns of Loudun. " They could reveal
-tli ·most secret thoughts." These are the very ·words used in
the Juridic informations concerning that celebrated affair.
Even some of the possessed persons had the extraordinary
gift of understanding all languages. Although ignorant, they
could answer correctly questions, in Latin, Greek, German,
&e. even in the dialect of some tribe, which one of the visi-
iters had learned during a residence in An1erica. This last
fact proves indisputably, that during the very peculiar state
of the nervous system, caused by religious exaltation, or the
magnetic operation, the human brain acquires the power of com-
prehending the thought and the will, in whatever language
it is expressed. I had a somnambulist under my care in this
country, who could obey my volitions, even when I mentally
expressed them in French ; although she did not know a
word of that language. Indeed, the act of thinking and ·will-
ing is perfortned every where in the same manner by the
brain, however different the languages of men are ; it is the
thought and the will that the somnambulist seizes, and not the
\Vords mental1y pronounced.
Now, Sir, from the foregoing facts, and a thousand others
of the same nature, which it would be too long to quote, I
will propose to you this question. If such a ''perfect sym-
pathy'' can be established bet\veen the brain of a somnam-
bulist and that of another individual, so as to enable the
former to receive in his own mind the impressions and ideas
which are formed in the mind of the latter, -is it not Inore
rational to think that Miss Brackett sa\v through your mental
influence, the pictures that adorn your parlor, rather than to
admit that she \Vent in spirit to Ne\v York, and saw them
there with her immaterial eye ?
\ That ·which confirms my opinion on this point is, that Miss
Brackett can be very easily influenced by the n1ind of those
3
'•
rl
I
i·
18
who are put in direct communication \Vith her. Besides
various proofs of the power of his '' \vill over this somnam-
bulist," afforded to me by Dr Capron, I will quote a striking
instance which came under my personal observation. This
fact shows that Miss Brackett is capable of apprehending the
thought, not only of her magnetiser, but also of any one else
put in cornmunication with her. One afternoon, \Vhile Miss
Brackett was under the Inagnetic influence, Mr A. Potter of
Providence, and myself stepped into the room and sat at some
distance frorn the somnambulist ; I must state that she did
not expect our arrival, and that Mr Potter had never seen her
before. After some moments had elapsed, Mr Potter asked
Dr Capron whether he had ever tried any experiments on his
patient by his will alone. The Doctor said he had not,
and did not know whether such experiments would succeed in
her cas~. Mr Potter then begged to be put in communica-
tion with the so1nnambulist, to \vhich Dr Capron readily
assented. Mr Potter seated himself near Miss Brackett,
and, without uttering a word, presented to her a small slice
of an apple. She took it \Vith both hands, as though it was
son1ething heavy, and, on tasting it, s'aid that it was a slice
of melon. Mr Potter had willed it to be so. He took
back the same piece of apple from Miss Brackett's hands,
and, without speaking a word, by a mere action of his mind,
turned it for the somnambulist into four or five different arti-
cles in the space of two minutes. There could be no decep-
tion in the case, as Mr Potter had never before seen Miss
Brackett, and as experiments of this kind had never yet be~n
tried on this sbmnambulist. . How did Miss Brackett know
the taste that Mr Potter meant to give to the slice of apple ?
She must necessarily have b~en actually influenced by the
action of his brain ; she must have apprehended his thoughts.
Such is, indeed, the clearness of a sornnambulist's mind on
some occasions, that he will seize with a wonderful accuracy
the most complicated Image or impression existing in the
'
r
I
19
mind of the person in communication.* The \Veil authenti-
cated facts I have quoted in the preceding pages, demonstrate
forcibly this point.
Now, was it more difficult for l\'Iiss Brackett to see your
pictures through the infl.ue_nce of your m~nd, than to appre-
hend so correctly, and at the very first attempt, Mr Potter's
will ? Are not both instances alike ? Are they not equally
surprising ? You must remember, indeed, that t~hose pictures
1vere engraved on your brain, and that in directing the som-
nambulist to look at them and take them down, the one after
the other, they presented themselves still more vividly and
distinctly to your mind. As you already felt some interest
in Miss Brackett, you '' wished very rnuch that she could see
them :" therefore, their impression \Vas carried forth into
your nervous atmosphere, mingled wi~h the somnambulist's
atmosphere, and thus transmitted to her brain or thinking and,
., -;--;- ..
Imagining-organ.
You \vill probably observe, that l\1iss Brackett mentioned
several particulars which had no trace at all in your mind,
t and which, on inquiry, you found to be correct. For in-
stance, in \valking through the '' College Green," she re-
marked that " there was one of the trees which was decaying,
and should be cut down and taken away." She also said,
that ''there \Vas nobody living no\V in the first \ving of the
college, that the house was empty,'' &c. I can assure you,
Sir, that these particulars were mere suggestions of Miss
Brackett's imagination, and do not prove that she actually
"saw" the objects mentioned by her. I have carefully ob-
served a large number of sotnnambulists ; I have read also a
*A writer in the Baltimore Commercial Transcript, Oct. 14, 1837, says:
c That in many cases of somnambulism (he had seen twenty, at different periods,)
the v.ery ideas, no matter how erroneous, of the magnetisers, were imbibed and
expressed by the subjects, leaving no doubt of the influence possessed by the ope-
rator, who certainly transmitted his very thoughts,- how? I cannot say, but I
know the fact. One I have seen daily for several years in that state, hardly
under the influence of the magnetiser, but still wandering to subjects that had
been for years his study, and repeating verbatim his theot·ies."
"II
I
'I !
, I
'I' i!
ifl' I
~'
(1
/l
1
.'.'11
l''
l:~l
•'
20
great deal about the peculiarities of mind during that state.
From my reading and personal observations, I have acquired
the conviction that even the most lucid somnmnbulists, are
.<;).ften dupes of their own imagination, exactly as we are, all
of us, of our dreams during the natural sleep. For this we
can easily account, when \Ve know that son1nambulists expe-
rience the same effects, both mental and physical, from a
falsehood as frotn a reality. They are liable to be so com-
pletely deluded, thas it is sometimes very difficult for the
magnetiser to make them becon1e conscious of their errors.
Being thus mentally constituted, their faculties of attention
are entirely absorbed by the object which occupies them,
whether true or not. They feel, speak, and act, and take
as anin1ated a part in a visionary scene as though it was real.
But that which characterizes the dreams or visions of som-
nambu,ists, is the perfect consistency existing between the
various parts of them. It is surprising to see how minute
they are, how careful to place each particular in its proper
place.
rrhis being the case, you understand that we should be very
attentive to distinguish, in the description and narration of a
somnambulist, what is the mere product of imagination, and
\vhat is an actual fact of clairvoyance, in regard either to ex-
ternal things upon which their attention is directed, or to in-
ternal impressions resulting from modifications of their own
system ! I now return to Miss B.'s case. Imagining or
drea1ning from the impulse she had received from your
mind, that she \Vas really walking through an avenue of trees,
she noticed, as a person ~oould do in the natural state,
that one of those trees was decaying and should be taken
away ! A somnambulist feels. indeed, that among a great
many trees forming an avenue, it would be extraordinary that
one of them at least should not be older than the otherJ and
even injured in some of its parts ; he knows that our large
cities are full of 1nischievous fellows, always ready to mar,
tear and destroy every thing they meet in the streets or on
F
21
public places. All these circumstances presented themselves
.at once to Miss Brackett's mind, connected \vith the idea of
the green. It is not surprising therefore, that she made a re-
mark. which coincided with what was " a fact." But al-
though correct, it is not sufficient to convince me that she
sa\v the trees, as her remark might have been only a "happy
guess." The same may be said of what she told concern-
ing the absence of the president of the college ; you had al-
ready observed to her that it \Vas vacation time, and she con-
sequently drew the inference that the president and his family
were gone to the country, on a visit to their friends, &c.
Every body knows, indeed, that it is customary for the offi-
cers of our-public institutions to employ the vacation time in
travelling and restoring their health, &c.
Somnambulists are generally so ingenious, consistent and
particular in their descriptions, that I would have been sur-
prised if Miss Brackett had omitte
4
d to make tlie above men-
tioned remarks. As to the pictures described by her, she
could not possibly have guessed at them, as they were
most of then1, of a very rare and peculiar character. Some
unreasonable skeptics pretend that you were fool enough to
whisper about the room, and even tell aloud to Dr Capron,
what those pictures were!-others suppose that the gentleman
who called at your house, \vith a letter of introduction from
Providence, had been sent to spy your n1ovements, and in-
vestigate the contents of your house, &c. Suc.h conjectures
are but contemptible, and I pity the poor brains and narrow
hearts from which they emanated. I do believe that Miss
Brackett becan1e aware of the existence and nature of those
pictures by her admirable somnambulic faculties ! she "saw"
them through your own mind ; although she very honestly
pretended to see them in New York. I will terminate these
rem.arks by repeating that I have, as yet, neither seen nor
read a single·fact, (not even in the notes inserted at the end
of the two first parts of Mr Hartshorn's translation of De...
leuze) which is capable, after a ma!ure exan1ination, of con-
~!, I 1
~~~
I
lj
'l'~JI'
'I
~·
'I
il·
f
I
22
• vincing n1e that a somnambulist can transport herself in spirit,
where she never was in her life, and see what is transpiring
in places about \vhich she had no previous correct idea, I do
not, however, reject the thing as utterly irnpossible ! For,
do I know all that is p~ssible ? I merely say, that such a
thing is ·wholly inexplicable and cannot be referred to any
philosophical principle whatever, like all the other rnagnet·ic
phenornena. I will, therefore, deny this n1iraculous clair-
voyance, until I have abundant and conclusive proofs of its
reality !
You 'vill ask perhaps, ·whether I believe in clairvoyance at
all? Yes, I believe that some somnambulists can see in a
very remarkable manner, their eyes being perfectly shut and
t independently irQl+l"""'a mental action of the magnetiser ! I
believe, that i0 a high state of lucidity, they can see what
is transpiring in the adjoining rooms, or even in a neighboring
to·wn, where they had previously lived or resided some time·
I had, in my practice, numerous and indisputable proofs Of
this power ; I have read also many striking instances of it
from very scientific sources. These phenomena rnoreover,
can be accounted for, either through an unusual increase of
energy and delicacy of the organ of vision, or by admitting
the existence of a peculiar fluid penetrating all bodies of na-
ture, and affecting in an equal manner the various parts of the
brain and the nerves ·which e1nanate from it. If such a fluid
exists, it appears that the human system is not always equally
susceptible of perceiving it, for the faculty of clairvoyance is
often ditninished and smnetimes entirely lost.
Such are, Sir, my views on the facts related in your letter
to Dr Brigham. I do not pretend that they are absolutely cor-
rect ; I am satisfied about them ; but others may find them
erroneous, and rnany· will probably reject them ! They will
think it just as wonderful that a somnarnbulist could read a
person's mind, as to see certain objects at a distance of rwo
hundred miles ! But let them compare the facts related in
your ·work, and those I _have mentioned in the preceding
,
23
pages; they will surely find a striking analogy between them,
and see that they can be explained in the same way, viz.
through the philosophical principles I have presented.
After aU, although your experiments with Miss Brackett
were not especially intended and calculated to ascertain wheth-
er the agent called ''Animal Magnetism" exists or not, yet
they come, for me, to the same final result ; they demon-
stra'te, in n1y opinion, that one human being can exercise an
influence over another, by the sole force of his mind, and that
the thoughts and impressions of one human brain can be
transmitted to another without the aid of language and signs.
I trust, Sir, that you will not mistake the intention of the
foregoing remarks. My object has not been to criticise only,
but to call your attention to an order of phenomena, viz.
'' the influence of the will and the comtnunication of thottght,"
which are better calculated than any other, to prove the re-
ality of Jhe animal magnetic princ,iple or £gent... I hope that
you will pursue your investigation of the subject and conduct
it in a proper manner, that you may be able, at a future pa-
riod, to crown the work you have so well commenced, by
comrn.unicating to the world the results of your further ~ob­
servations. In waiting for that moment, I now most heartily
congratulate you for what you have so far done to forward the
cause of truth. The courage and independence of mind with
\Vhich you have proclaimed your opinion in regard to a Inat-
ter, as yet, so little understood, so generally denied and ridi-
culed, are truly praiseworthy. You have proved that you
comprehend, and do not fear to practise the duties which your
profession of editor devolves upon you, viz. to be an impar-
tial observer of the manifestations of the time, and to enlight-
en the public mind about them. Animal n1agnetism will un-
doubtedly prevail, notwithstanding the furious and blind op-
position which is no\v made against it. Then your exertions
in the defence and propagation of truth shall be duly appre-
ciated, whereas your sneerers will be in their turn sneered at
and despised for their conceited ignorance and ungenerosity.
II' !
'I
jl
jl
I
;,,
I~I
1
1
.11 .11
lrll.i l
I ~ I
!1 I
I
I
I
L
I '
24
But, Sir, while you see1n to have been so earnest to do
justice to anin1al magnetism before the public, you have been,
I must confess, singularly hasty in forming an opinion, and
very careless in the 1nanner in \vhich you have expressed
yourself about the character and conduct of the man who has
been for nearly two years, struggling to introduce the subject
in this country. I read in your Jetter to Dr Brigham such a
sentence as the following ; " I pray you not to \Vrite me
down as a believer in the charlatannerie of Mes1ner and Des-
Ion, or as a disciple of Mr Poyen, or as an encourager of the
other strolling dealers in so1nnambulism, \vho traverse the
country, exhibiting their ' sleeping beauties' as lovers, not
of science, but of gain."
Thus, I am, in your opinion, a charlatan, a dealer in som-
nambulism, whose sole object is gain, &c.
•
No,v, I ask you from what source did you derive your in-
forn1ation concerni~g me. Did you believe yourself sufficient-
ly authorized from mere appearances and the Yulgar attacks
of some of your brother editors, to pronounce so decisive
apd severe a judgment upon a man with whom you had no
previous personal acquaintance, and \vhose acts never afforded
an evident ground for reproach ? Did you not feel, in \vrit-
ing do\vn this judgment, as though you \Vere doing \vrong to
a fello\v creature, and forfeiting to the fairness, soberness and
charity \vhich are becoming of a christian mind, of a philoso-
phic and earnest searcher after truth ? And, besides that,
how could you have allowed yourself, in .a publication of a
serious character, to indulge in such a sneering and trifling
way of \vriting, as is n1anifested in the word '' sleeping
beauties and others." I have never exhibited any " sleep-
ing beauty ;" and Miss Gleason, to whom you have probably
alluded, never had any pretension to be any thing of the kind;
on the contrary, she already bears on her face and whole
system the marks of the power of those unmerciful destroy-
ers of beauty ; age and sickness.
It seen1s to me, Sir, that before venturing to pronounce an
25
unfavorable judgment upon a man's intentions and conduct, it
\vould be but just and prudent to look previously for proper
information. It \vould have been easy for you to obtain
some concerning me, during your visit in Providence. I atn
pretty we11 known there. Rev Dr Wayland, Prof. Chace alld
Casvvell ; Rev ~fessrs E. E. Hall and Farley ; Dr Crocker,
have conversed \Vith me ; most of thenl have attended my
lectures. They have thus been able to form an opinion of
my character and education. They' 1night have informed
you \vhether I am, or not, moved by purely selfish motives,
whether I have or not manifested any love for science
and philanthropy. I have no\v in my portfolio a letter of in-
troduction from Dr F. Wayland, to Rev Dr Day and Prof.
Silliman of Yale College, that \vould do honor to any man..
Drs Brownell and Capron might also have furnished you ·with
the means of forming a correc.t and impartial qpinion. I had
considerable intercourse \Vith them ; they had the opportunity
of observing the tendency of my n1ind, and my \vay of treating
and propagating anirnal 1nagnetism. I might, in a word, if I
deelned it \vorth while, refer you to a great number of other
individuals belonging to the most respectable and literary
classes in N e\v ~ngland. Eut it is, sir, a painful thing to
any \Vriter of c.ommon sense and delicacy, to be compelled
to speak of himself, in the view of vindicating his character,
and it is \Vith the utmost reluctance that I have undertaken
,here, to justify myself from the offensive allusions con-
tained in your letter to Dr E. I would not have done it,
had I not considered it a duty to remove, as much as I can,
the prejudices and wrong impressions entertained of me1 for
the sake of the advancement of the itnportant subject \vhich
it has been· my lot to lecture upon in this country, and to
\vhich n1y name is particularly attached. It is in that vie\v
that I take the liberty of presenting to you the written opin-
ion of a fe,v distinguished gentlemen concerning 1ny charac-
ter and conduct.· 'These gentlen1en have seen n1e often, and
are \vell qualified, from the acquaintance they had with n1e, to
4
,,.
I
,: II!
u•
•I
II
·!I
'1\''
[:I
rl
·:
II
I·
'I
'i
l·i
,•
,I'
:,,,
r' I
,I'
26
judge of my course and intentions. A letter of introduction
given to me by Smnl. 1-I. Jenks, Esq. of Nantucket, to Thorn- -.
as G. Woodward, Esq., editor of the Connecticut Herald,
com1nences thus : "Give roe leave to introduce to your friend-
ly acquaintance Dr Ch. Poyen, for whon1 I entertain the pro-
foundest esteem and respect ; estee1n for his philanthropic
virtues ; respect for his learning and devotion to science. *
* *
.
* * * *
A 1nore inti1nate acquaintance with Dr Poyen will strength-
en your attachment to hi1n. fie has been abused by many of
our * * * * brethren, who call themselves editors."
From the above mentioned letter of President F. Wayland
to President Day and Prof. Silliman, I extract the following
lines:
'' .Pr Poyen has resided some time among us in Provi-
dence, and I have every reason to believe hin1 an intelligent,
an1iable and philanthropic gentleman..·As such I beg the favor
of introducing hin1 to your acquaintance."
In an article on animal 1nagnetism, inserted in the Boston
Recorder of February 17, 1837, by one of the most intelli-
gent and learned [gentlemen of the city, you will find these
words:
'' Ho\v disgusting is the tone some journals assume towards
Dr Poyen, and how vulgar their abuse ! Since I have known
him, he has sustained a high intellectual and n1oral character ;
and the object of these few remarks is to induce those of like
character to unite with him in classifying these phenomena,
fixing their relations to the great body of science, and fol-
lowing out and popularizing their medical and psychological
uses."
The following paragraphs .are extracted from an article in
the Providence Journal, July 20th, 1837, by Thotnas C.
Hartshorn, Esq. translator of the Deleuze :
'' Had Mr Poyen come muong us in his t1~tte appellation,
as a marquis of the old regirne, and not in poverty, he would
have found a thousand ready to fall down and worship his
27
title, and to attribute to himself all the distinguishing traits of
nobility, where he finds one no\v ·who is \villing to be pleased
vvith the truly gentlemanly feeling which is inherent in him,
and with the learning \Vhich he is not ostentatious in dis-
playing.
'' 1\fr Poyen demeaned himself in society in a modest and
unassuming manner. There was no arrogant pretension to
superior skill or po\ver. On the contrary, he expressly
stated in his lectures, that others \vho \Vere there present,
might possess it in a much higher degree. He seemed anx-
ious to impress a conviction on the minds of his auditors of
the great advantages of it as a curative process. He stood
by the bed of the sick, and instructed several gentlemen of
the faculty and others, in this and the neighboring to\vns, in
the mode of procedure, and they were mor.e successful than
himself in producing the desired results. He received no re-
compensefronl those persons \vhom he instructed, except \vhat
they may have paid for tickets of admission to his lectures.
And, finally, as a triumphant vindicati<fl of his character from
the charge of imposition, the magnetic practice in this city
bas been attended with such decisive proofs of its therapeutic
virtues, that no man of character here will venture to gainsay
the assertion, under the authority of his o\vn name.
" ~Ir Poyen's exertion in the cause, and the fact of his
being a pioneer of it in N e\v England, demand a public state-
ment of these truths, so honorable to him.''
Such is the opinion of those ·who have conversed with me,
.and observed my course and character.
You have not treated Mesner and Deslon ·with any more
justice and propriety than you have done me. Instead of
referring to the opinion of the prejudiced, superficial and time-
serving editors of periodicals and to the authors of cyclopedias,
about those distinguished men, I \Vould beg you either to
read their \vorks, if you can procure them, or to see \vhat
the virtuous, judicious and learned Deleuze says concerning
them in his '' Histoire Critique du Magnetisme animal," Vol.
I. ch. 1, and Vol. II. ch. 1 and 2.
·I :·
il: ·,,,1
I '
,,
II
f,, 1 I
jl
·I
It'"'
II
Iii "
l!l
l
28
If you desire n1ore information concerning tne, I 'JOuld beg
leave to refer you to a \vork just published, entitled '' Jlni1nal
Magnetism, in New England," in which I give a faithful ac-
count of the 1nanner in which I becmne interested in the
" science," and of the course I have pursued to establish it
in this country.
I ·will now finish this letter by a fe\v remarks on the re-
proach ·which you have addressed me, of being ''a lover not
of science, but of gain." I assure you, sir, that if I am at
all moved by the " love of gain," I am far from possessing
the art of gaining. You \Vould, yourself, ackno\vledge this
to be the fact, should you have a chance of investigating
the contents of my purse. I will even dare to affirm, that
very fe\v, nor perhaps yourself, \Vould have persevered as I
have d9ne, in the troublesome and difficult task of lecturing
upon animal magnetistn in this country for so little pecuniary
compensation.
But, when a man is accomplishing a useful object, when he
is qualified to carry it Uout faithfully and honorably, is it not
equally unjust and unp~ilosophical to charge him \vith being
moved by motives of gain ? Who will ever engage seriously
and perseveringly in any ·work of some importance, without
a strong hope that he shall be rewarded for it ? and \vhat
can this reward be, but MONEY, that is to say, the means
of supporting hitnself and enjoying the comfort of life ?
In the present age, and in this C?untry especially, \Ve
find very fe\v 'Worshippers of pure glory. No one, In
our days, is wild enough to seek fmne and glory at
the risk of \Vearing rags, living upon air, and dying in an
attic. The present generation are all thirsting for the ·wa-
ters of the golden Pactole ; money is the vital element of
society ; it is the vast and vivifying source from \Vhich the
heart dra\vs sensibility ; the brain, intellect and po\ver of
combination ;-it is the n1ighty lever by which the hand of
industry erects splendid buildings, digs up canals, con-
structs railroads, builds steamboats and packets ; finally, ac-
complishes all that is necessary for the material welfare of so-
...
'
29
ciety. God has ~visely endowed~ man with acquisitiveness ;
this faculty, when properly balanced by a due proportion of
benevolence and conscientiousness, is capable ofyielding as use-
ful and glorious results as any other passion of human na-
ture ! The extraordinary prosperity of the United States,
and their high station a1nong civilized nations, illustrate strik-
ingly this truth.
It is time, therefore, that \Ve should cease to reproach a
fe.Ilow creature with the use of a faculty inherent to the hu-
man organization, and so necessary to bring about the designs
of the Divine p~ovidence in her temporal government of so-
ciety.. The love of gain, the '' sacra fames auri," is general;
it inspires the preacher of the gospel, the healer of human
infirmities, the ruler of the people, as \vell as the humblest
mechanic and farmer. The ''priest mttst live upon the altar,"
is a proverb which is applicable to men of all professions in-
discriminately.
If you reproach me, Sir, ·with being a " dealer in somnanl-
bulism,''the same reproach might be addressed to you. In-
deed, I have heard many a one insinuate that your pamphlet
was a mere money concern ! People observe that you might
just as \veil have published your observations in t\vo or three
nurnbers of the .Journal edited by you, rather than to make
a pamphlet for sale. lVIyself, I pay no attention to such sup-
positions ; I a1n pleased to think that you have been moved
by the pure love of truth. But, supposing that you had any
pecuniary object in view, I would still thank God for having
organized you in such a manner as to c01npel you to come
forth publicly and Jearlessly, in support of a noble and im-
portant truth, for the sake of satisfying your '' acquisitive-
ness."
As far as a man seeks gain \Vithout departing from ·what is
right and honorable, he c~nnot be blamed ; but, from the mo-
ment he sacrifices truth, conscience, and h.is duties towards
his fe1lo\v creatures, to a base appetite for money and the sel-
fish gratification of his exuberant vanity, he renders himself
.....
Hll\1
•
30
contemptible and can no longer be considered as a safe mem-
ber of society. This last trait, Sir, establishes a broad differ-
ence in the mind of the well thinking part of the community,
between the talented ·writer of the '' letter to Dr Brigham,"
and the impudent, self·conceited and vulgar scribbler ·who has
just enlightened the public \vith an '' Exposition or a new the-
ory of .flnintal ~fagnetism."
I am, Sir, respectful1y, yours,
CH. POYEN.
REl\IARI(S
ON
THE CAUSES OF FAILURE
IN THE
ANIMAL MAGNETIC EXPE Rll\IENT S ;
INTENDED .AS .A
REFUTATION OF C. F. DURANT'S EXPOSITION
OF ANil\lAL lV£AGNETISl\1.
-.....-~-I~ouL D consider it a wicked vvaste of time and labor to
enter into a minute critical examination of this libellous pam-
phlet. I am satisfied that it carries its full refutation with it-
self; I vvould, indeed, challenge any person of education, of
common delicacy and power of discrimination, to read it \Vith-
out experiencing throughout its perusal, a perfect disgust for
the coarseness of the style, the vulgarity of thought and man-
ner exhibited in it. I shall not, then, for the present trouble
tny mind about it.
The object of the following remarks is particularly to re-
solve some difficulties \vhich seem, at the present moment, to
bear hard on the public mind, and vvhich are calculated, I
must confess, to r~tard the advances of magnetisn1 ·in this
country, should they not be promptly removed. If, more-
over, the explanations that I propose to give, are deemed sa-
tisfactory, ~Ir Durant's assertions and the pretended experi-
ments related in his book .......,. have no more \veight in the
eye of the reading part of th~omtnunity than the gas \Vith
\vhich he \Vas \Vont to S\Ye1l his balloons.
Let us come to the point. People say, " If animal mag-
netism is a matter of facts the reality of which can be ascer-
.
1\~
,,
II
32
tained by actual observation, \vhy do we hear so many con-
tradictory reports fro1n those who have witnessed the experi-
ments ? \vhy is there such a difference of opinion concerning
the alleged facts ?"
These are the questions which _the present state of things
requires of me to answer in a peremptory manner.
I must, in the first place call the attention of the philosophi-
cal reader to a very important point, viz. the respective
grounds upon which those who have reported in favor or
against animal n1agnetism, have based their judgment.
In looking over the history of this '' science" in Europe
and America, we are struck with the fact that all those who
have written" ex professo" in sttpport of Jlnimal Magnetisnt,
we~e, or still are MAGNETISERs. They have themselves re-
peatedly and carefully performed the operations on .a great
variety of individuals;-and what is re1narkable, none .ose
who have thus given a fair practical trial to the subject have
remained unconvinced, althottgh they were formerly decided
skeptics; none have pretended that the clai1ns of the science
\Vere not founded on reality. 'rhis is the history of all the
magnetisers of Europe and America. Now, from the rank
occupied by those individuals in society, from their education
and well known character, we cannot suppose either that they
have deceived the people, or that they have suffered them-
selves to be imposed upon. Therefore, the facts by which
they \vere convinced must have been of a positive charac-
ter, that is to say, evident enough to satisfy skeptical and en-
lightened minds.
When, on the other hand, we inquire of the motives upon
\vhich the opponents of animal magnetism have based their .
opinion, we find that none of them'say that they have them-
selves magnetised, a~d acqljir~rom personal experience,
'the conviction of the fah;ity of the doctrine. They all reject
the claims of it, either on the ground that it is contrary to the
laws of nature, &c. or because a fe\v experiments they have
seen tried on persons n'tagnet'ised by others in their presence
33
ha.ve failed ! Such is the position of the enen1ies of animal
magnetism.
The preceding remarks partly explain, iri my opinion,
why contradictory reports have always been in circulation
concerning the n1agnetic phenomena, and vvhy there is such
a difference of opinion respecting their reality. Those vvho
have vvitnessed or themselves produced conclusive effects,
are thus led to espouse the cause of the science ; those on
the contrary, who have seen failures only, deny its reality
and, vvithout looking farther into it, remain satisfied from those
failures that what they have heard about it cannot be true.
.
From what has just been said, a plain inference follows.
In order to become convinced of the truth of magnetism, it
is not sufficient to see and " scrutinize" a fe\v experiments
made by other people ; it is necessary to perform the opera-
tion oneself a number of times and on a varJety of subjects.
No one has a right to deny the reality of the phenomena and
reject the statements made by other respectable persons until
he has given this patient anq unprejudiced trial to the matter.
Indeed, I would candidly ask whether it is philosophical to
base one's judgment upon one or a few failures ? It is ad-
mitted that negative facts cannot overthrow positive ones. If
on witnessing some magnetic performanc.es, we meet with
failures only, are we sufficiently authorized to conclude that
the experiments have never been successful ? for, how could
so many intelligent persons who advocate animal magnetism,
have been satisfied of its reality and value, if they had not ob-
tained conclusive results ?
Here, another question of importance presents itself.-
Why do the magnetic experiments succeed so well at ti1nes
and fail completely at other times ? The reason is simple
enough ; because these experiments are performed under
different circurr,stances, some of which are highly favor-
able, and others contrary to their success. Thus far,
there is nothing surprising. The chemist, the natural philo-
sopher, the physician, &c. know that the experiments attempt-
5
34
ed by them often fail, and that they fail either because the
materials used were not in good order and of a proper qual-
ity, or because certain circumstances which the operator had
not foreseen and provided against, have unfortunately taken
place. Such failures are easily accounted for by the profes-
sor of the science or the physician, and people make no diffi-
culty in accepting his apology ; they say, " the experiments
have not succeeded today, for such or such reasons; but they
will probably succeed better tomorro·w, &c. All is for the
best !" People do not retire discontented ; they do not ex-
claim, imposition ! deception ! nothing in it ! &c.; because
they are perfectly aware that the chemist, or the professor
of electricity cannot concert a plan 'vith their apparatus :
they are aware that brute bodies cannot connive with any
living- being to deceive mankind. But, with respect to the
magnetic experiments, it is altogether different. If they suc-
ceed, the skeptic says, it was a plan skilfully concerted, or
if they fail, he retires indignant, considering the ·whole as a
\vicked imposition, &c. Why so ? I regret to say, it is be-
cause people are aware that the animal magnetic experiments
are perfonned on, and by, a human indi·vidual, viz., by, and
on beings that are capable of conniving together to deceive their
fellow creatures. On witnessing these experiments the pub-
lic do not reflect, and they appear not willing to grant, that
their success depends also on '' the proper state and quality
of the materials used, and on certq.in other important circum-
stances without the presence of which the required and usual
effects cannot take place.
The materials, as ·we figuratively call them, are the brain
and nervous system of the magnetiser, and the brain and ner-
vous system, of the person rnagnetised. These are the two
pieces or elements, as Georget calls them, of the magnetic
~pparatus. One of these two elements is active, the other is
passive ; the influence emanates from the former, and is re-
ceived and felt by the latter. But in order that the desired
(}ffects should be properly manifested, it is necessary, indis·
I
r
r
I
I
L
35
pensable, that a perfect equilibrium should exist bet\veen both
elements. The operator's brain and nervous system must
.exercise its action in a regular, even, and constantly strong
manner; at the same time, the brain of the person operated up-
on must find itself in a state of perfect calmness and tranquil
sensibility, in order either to feel the intended effects of the
action directed upon it, or to exhibit the phenomena ·which
may belong to the exercise of its o\vn activity and po·wer, in-
dependently from the magnetiser's influence. Every thing
therefore, that will disturb the normal order of either or of
both elements of the magnetic apparatus, will destroy the re-
qoired equilibrium, and the experiments must fail.
There is one point, in all this, \vhich I desire the reader
to bear clearly and constantly In his mind ; it is that
the hq.man brain and nervous system are not brute, inani-
m:ate objects ; they are not, for instance, like the electric
machine, the galvanic battery, &c. They are the nl~St com-
plex, nice, organized and living instruments. They are there-
fore, submitted to the action and reaction of infinitely more
numerous causes than any other object in creation. They are
(and \Ve should expect it to be so,) infinitely more suscepti- ,
ble of changes and modifications than any scientific machine
or apparatus that- can be devised and made by man's hands.
We knovv besides, that the complication, delicacy and nJodi-
fiability of organized bodies vary according to the degree
which they occupy in the scale of life. A plant is more com-
plex and modifiable than a crystal ; an animal of a lower or-
der is more complex and modifiable than a plant, &c. No\v,
how much more complicated, delicate and changeable, is the
organization of man than that of all other living beings. Be-
. sides all the physical causes that are acting continually on
him, as well as on other animals, man is submitted to another
continual source of actions, reactions and modifications,
\vhich is within himself. I n1ean his own exquisite sen-
sibility and his passions. Now, let us reflect that the brain
and the nervous system are the seat of sensibility and of pas-
36
sions; let us reflect also, that it is from the same organ that the
magnetic influence emanates, and that they are the instruments
principally used for magnetising. How then, can we be sur-
prised at the variety of results obtained, and even at the
numerous failures that are met with in the practice of animal
magnetism? If the chemical, electric, galvanic, &c. experi-
ments fail often, although the laws of electricity and chemis-
try are_ comparatively simple and few, it is but natural that
animal magnetism, the laws of which are not yet \vell appre-
ciated, and which is subjected to a great many causes of vari-
ation, should present still more numerous failures.
The circumstances either favorable or contrary to the suc-
cess of the experiments in animal magnetism must be, ofcourse
different from those attending the experiments made on and
with-inorganized bodies. They are peculiar to the nature
and capacity of the agents employed, viz. the human brain
and nervous system. Those circumstances are numerous, so
delicate and profoundly hidden that it. requires a long expe-
.rience, and the attentive reading of the best authors, united to
an acute power of observation, comparison and discrimination,
to know them all and appreciate them properly. This
constitutes, therefore, a branch of knowledge that compara-
tively very few magnetisers possess \vhen they commence
practising, especially in this country, \vhere there is an almost
absolute deficiency of books and \vritten instructions on the
subject. Being thus involved in complete darkness about the
causes that are calculated to favor or disturb the rnagnetic ac-
tion, they can but meet ·with failures whenever they venture
to expose their somnambulist and themselves to circumstances
different from those under the influence of which they have
performed successful experiments. The magnetic power
being natural to man, .and the means of using it exceedingly
plain, it becomes thus very easy to almost any one, to pro-
duce the phenomena which are known to take place under
such operatio!l· But in this case power is not science. The
person who just begins to magnetise may be able to obtain
l
37
wonderful effects, and yet be utterly incapable of understand-
ing both what he is doing, and the causes which have made
his experiments succeed. He does not perhaps suspect that
those experiments are liable to fail, and even sees not why
they should fail, as he does not yet appreciate the nature of
the agents used in the operation, and has not learned through
e~pe.rience and study that those agents are susceptible of a
great many modifications. Thence the numerous failures
which have given rise in Europe, as well as in this country,
to the contradictory reports which people have heard, and to
the difference of opinion which is existing about the reality
of the magnetic phenomena.
In order to convey a clearer idea of what I mean, I will
present a few cases of the failures to which I am alluding, as
they generally occur to those ·who commence the practice of
magnetism. Let us take for example, one of the magnetis-
ers mentioned in Mr Durant's book. I will show· how this
beginner \viii, from mere ignorance, cre·ate failures on his
way, and thus expose himself and his somnambulist to be con-
sidered as impostors by some uncharitable and equally ig-
'N)r.a'fll skeptics. I
Mr C. hears of the wonderful effects of what is called
animal magnetism and he ·wishes to obtain them himself; he,
in consequence, magnetises a person '\Veil known to him, i1~
whom he has confidence, say his friend, his sister, even per-
haps his own \vife. The success is complete; at the first
attempt, he thro'\VS the subject into the magnetic state ; he is
already in amazement at his power; he repeats the operation
and succeeds in producing the first phenomena of somnam-
bulism; his admiration and enthusaisrn are still greater. He
decides to invite a couple of friends, well known both to him-
self and to the subject of his experiments. 1\fr C. in pres-
ence of these friends feels the same confidence as he had
\vhen alone ; he is at his o\vn house, pursues his own course,
and acts from the impulse of his own mind,--the experi-
ments succeed again to the satisfaction of all present, for, so
far, the circumstances are favorable to the operation.
38
But Mr C. already wishes to convince more people, say
two or three influential persons; he invites them to see an
exhibition. They come \Vith high expectations, but unfor-
tunately the experiment fails; l\ir C. cannot even put his pa-
tient to sleep ; how, and ·why ? he cannot tell, for he does
not know that he was too anxious to succeed, and that his very
solicitudes have disturbed his nervous system and prevented
both in himself and in his patient the degree of confidence
and regularity of action necessary to produce the required
effect. Among those invited, one or more were, perhaps,
entire strangers to his subject, and Mr C. does not yet kno·w
that the presence of strangers agitates a somnambulist and
that such agitation is contrary to the success of the operation.
The persons who had been called to witness wonders, retire
disa~pointed, and say that poor 1\'Ir C. was deluded, &c.
After they are gone, l\fr C. makes a ne\V attempt and suc-
ceeds very well ; and it cannot be otherwise, for the causes
of disturbance exist no longer.
After magnetising his patient ten or twelve times, always
successfully, and in presence of severalfriends, J\1r C. again
invites son1e strangers. This time he succeeds in producing
sleep. He then pronounces the subject to be in a profound
sleep from ·which nothing, not even the discharge of a park ofar-
tillery, could arouse her. Indeed, the bystanders make noise,
shake', pinch and prick the sleeper, without producing any
apparent effect. Mr C. also pretends that she hears nobody
but him, for, in the preceding sittings he has observed that she
never answered any one else. He then tries, from his own
intpulse and according to his own fancy, a fe\v experiments to
test the power of the will. They are perfectly successful.
Another experiment, rnore complicated, of which he never
thought before, is suggested to him on a piece of paper ; he '
hesitates, doubts, feels anxious for the resttlt ; he tries, ho-,v-
ever, and of course, fails ; and it could not have been other-
wise, for this experiment did not spring spontaneously fro.m
his mind, and he did not try it tvith sufficient confidence in
...
\
I
39
hi~1uelj, therefore the aetion of his brain could not be clear
and regular enough. T·wo or three sin1ilar suggested experi-
nlents are tried again, with no more success, for the rnagne·
tiser having failed once, is afraid of failing again, and such
fea:r \Viii prevent him from succeeding. Do not we often see
a stout, robust man, knocked down by a man of feebler n1us·
cles ? Why ? because he is a coward. On ·witnessing such
failures, what will the persons invited think and say ? Some
\vill think that there was a concerted plan, others will say
that 1Vlr- C. is a visionary man.
Again, another experiment is performed on the day follow·
ing, in presence of several individuals, among whom is found
a thorough and ungenerous skeptic, who has conceived some
idea that the son1nambulist is practising deception, and has
resolved to detect the trick. This skeptic will manage an ex-
perinlent like this : he writes on a piece of paper, " Will this
pencil case to be a melon," and passes it to die magnetiser; at
/
the. same tin1e standing near the somnambulist, he will say
aloud or simply whisper, but so as to be heard, '' l\'lind what I
wrote on the paper, ·will this pencil case to become red hot
iron?" and even before the somnambulist has felt any action
at all from the magnetiser's will, (for it generally takes long·
er tb feel the will, than to hear,) she exclaims, c.' 0 h ! oh !
you burn me, &c." Indeed it unfortunately happens that this
subject is one of those whose sense of hearing, although deaf
to any other kind of noise, is open to the human voice, no
matter whose voice it is. She therefore caught the skeptic's
words, and.taking them in earnest, acted in consequence. Mr
C. is stupefied, he begins himself to think that the patient is
not asleep, and is feigning, &c. Indeed, as he had observed
that she never noticed the questions of any body besides him..
self, he candidly supposed that she could not hear, for he does
a.
ot yet know by experience or reading, that there are certain
somnambulists who, although they hear what people say, yet
imagine honestly and strongly, that they ought not to answer
any body butthe magnetiser, because they have heard ·while
awake and before they were magnetised, that somnatnbulists
40
generally speak with their magnetiser only, and \Vith no other
person, unless they are willed to. Now, if Mr C. had ex-
perience enough, and had read the best authors, he \vould
know that certain impressions, those particularly referring to
magnetism, that are made on a somnambulist's mind, and while
in the wakeful state, act ntost powerfully on their inutgination,
when in the ntagnetic sleep. But let Mr C. recollect all the
successful experiments he has privately tried on his subject,
\vithout a word spoken or a signal made, when there could be
no possibility for deception, and he \viii be co,nvinced that his
somnambulist is in earnest, and that it is not probable that she
would attempt to feign such a state ; l\'Ir C. then will infer
that a person in the magnetic sleep is not always deaf; that it
is, in consequence, necessary to be very careful not to speak
aloud about what is going on ; that every experiment with
such somnambulist should be performed without a word of
any sort uttered in their presence. l\fr C. \viii learn also
that it is very i1nportant to aseertain by proper experiments,
whether a somnambulist hears others or not, in order that he
should not positively assert before strangers that she does not .
hear at all, &c. ,
Again, having been told that after a person had been suc-
cessfully magnetised a number of times, the manipulations
usually employed in the beginning to produce the magnetic
sleep, became useless ; that a steady look, with a firm will,
\vere sufficient to cause the same state to take place, Mr C.
tries that new metho9 and with the greatest success ;-he re-
peats the experiment again and again, and always successful-
ly, even in the presence of other people ; indeed, his subject
has been so often magnetised by him, and is so completely
under his control, that she cannot help going into somnambu-
lism \vhen he wills her to. Now, among the persons present,
there is a shrewd skeptic who doubts the sincerity of the som•
nambulist. He takes Mr C. into the entry and requests him,
in a whisper, to sit and look steadily at the patient's face with-
out willing any thing at all. Agreeably to the suggestion, Mr
r
41
C. takes his position and looks at the subject ; soon she ap..
pears dro\vsy, and within three minutes she is, ~o all appear-
~n.ee, fast asleep. They try her in the usual ways and she re-
si.sts all the trials with an inconceivable courage and without
flinching once. Indeed, she is really in the so1nnambulic
s:tate~ Mr C. is surprised; he cannot account for it ; what !
i$. she feigning again ? Mr C. knows indeed, that he has not
'UJ.~Utit her to sleep ; but he is not yet aware of the wonderful
p.ower of imagination on those persons who have been repeat-
edly subjected to the action of anim,al magnetisnt. If he had
experience enough, or if he had read the best authors on this
subject, he \vould kno\v that this singular, unaccottntable and
fJtJW.erful agent wh~ch is cmnmonly called i1nagination, is ca-
p:able. of producing the same effects as the real rnagnetic in-
fluence exercised by another person. He would know, in-
.d.e.ed, that what we call imagination, is the 11lctgnetic force or
pGWer of the spirit of each individual, acting independently
from the 'Will; he would know that the 1nagnetic operation
h11s a great tendency to increase the natural activity and ener-
gy of the imagination in those upon whom it is practised, to
auch an extent that the least intpression, on those persons'
minds is sufficient to cause the state of son1nanJbulism to take
place. When lVIr C. is informed of all this, he will beware
ofacting on his subject's imagination, in order to obtain results
of a positive character, and not to expose himself to be treat-
ed as a fool, and his innocent somnambulist to be considered
as an impostor by ignorant and skeptical witnesses. If
any one inquires whether all the phenomena attributed to ani-
mal. magnetism are ·not the products of imagination, as the
above mentioned fact authorizes us to suppose, I would an-
swer that I have directed my attention particularly towards
resolving this difficulty, and that I have acquired the strongest
possible evidence that there is a power besides irnagination,
deriving from the exercise of the will of one individual over
another, and ·which is capable of producing both the magnetic
sleep and all the phenomena of somnambulis1n. This is my
6
I ~
42
experience, and it is corroborated by that of thousands of
other magnetisers, (see the Report of the Royal Academy of
Medicine of Paris, 1831 ; also the Experiments performed
by Dr Dupotet, at the Hotel Dieu, in 1820, &c.) Of the
existence of this power, Mr C. can satisfy himself at any
time, by magnetising his subject through a partition wall, and
when she is not at all aware ofwhat is going on. Most of the
magnetisers of this country have already made such experi-
ments with the most perfect success, and they have been c.on-
vinced by then1, of the reality of animal magnetism. But it
appears that they have not yet observed that intagination can
produce the same effects ; let them satisfy themselves about
this power, and they will surely come to the same conclusion
as I have, that what vve call intagination, is the genuine mag-
net{~ force, or the power of each huntan individual, acting
independently from the 'Will. The state of somnambulism
elicited under the influence of rnere imagination is not gener-
ally so regular and profound as that which is produced by the
will of the magnetiser, but it is real notwithstanding ; any one
can convince himself of it by trying the usual experiments,
such as willing various things 'vithout either a sign or a 'vord
spoken, &c. The somnambulist vvill show that she is evi-
dently affected by such mental .action. But I repeat, mag-
netisers should beware not to act on their subject's imagina-
tion before strangers who are ignorant of the matter, because
the sleep produced in that way is liable to be imperfect, and
it may happen that all the subsequent experiments will be very
unsatisfactory.
I now leave Mr C., and will finish these explanations by
extracting a few more instances of failure from the practice
of 1\fr A., another beginner, an equally ignorant and shallow
observer. Mr A~ has· made a great number of experiments on
his somnarnbulist, in whose honesty he has the greatest con-
fidence, as she is the rnost intin1ate friend of his· bosom, his
o'vn wife. He bas so far obtained wonderful results, and has
been fortunate enough to satisfy a good number of his friends.
I
43
As magnetism is a subject of general curiosty and interest,
and as his o\vn business is for the present rather poor, 1\:Ir A.
takes a notion to make a fortune by exhibiting the 1nagnetic
phenomena, for money. He kno·ws very ·well that he is ut-
terly ignorant of the science, that he can neither account for
the extraordinary effects produced, nor explain one of the
failures that may take place, &c. But the thirst for gold per-
verts his judgment and silences the cry of his conscience.
Having succeeded \veil at h01ne, he flatters hi1nself that he
\Vill SUCCeed equally \Veil in a strange city, and before a large
pro1.ll'iscuous assernbly. He does not see why he should not,
for he has not yet reflected on the nature of animal rnagne-
titrm, and i_s not, moreover, capable of understanding the pro-
perties and structure of the agents usedin the operation. He
s.tarts then, for the city of Ne\v York, anticipating the most
brilliant results. A1nong his visitors in Ne\y York, is a sel-
fish, double-tongued, vain fello'v, who, at first, conceives the
idea of associating \vith l\fr A. to make fortune in com1non,
but on perceiving the ignorance and sirnplicity of Mr A. this
shre·wd fello\v despairs to make any thing of pecuniary con-
sequence ·with him ; feeling also that in the present state of
universal and ·warm excitement existing on the matter, it
might prove more profitable to oppose, and if possible, ex_
p.lode the science than to advocate it, he boldly takes it into his
conceited brain that the ·whole is an imposition, and forms a
mighty pl?n to expose it -before the \vorld. But he avoids
telling any thing of his intentions to l\1r A. On the con-
trary, he carefully keeps hirn in the belief that he is still his
friend, and is seriously thinking of helping him along. This
malicious fello\v pretends that h~ has invented a profound
and scientific theory that \vill account for all the phenomena
of magnetism, and \Vill infallibly secure to l\fr A. a prompt
and im1nense success. Among the experiments which he
suggests, there is one, ·which if it succeeds, \vill establish
beyond all dispute and cavil the correctness of his theory,
and thereby prove the reality of ani1nal Inagnetism, and make
44
lYir A.'s fortune as certain as though he had already got it in
his purse. " This experiment," says he, " cannot but succeed,
it must succeed, for it is founded on the well known analogous
laws of nature. It consists in cutting off the magnetic cur-
rent producing so1nnambulism, by interposing a sheet of tissue
paper between the 1nagnetiser and the_ person magnetised.
This tissue paper is pretended to be a newly discovered and
very rare substance, which has the extraordinary property of
neutralizing the effects of common mineral magnetism, and as,
in the vie,vs of the ingenious fello\v, mineral and animal mag-
netisin are alike, the cerin (so called tissue paper) tnust of
course neutralize also the effect of animal magnetislJl. *
:1\'Ir A. and his wife, poor simple people, who suspect noth-
ing of the infernal and absurd trick played upon them, swal-
low the whole at once ; their imagination is full of it ; they
become infatuated \vith the new theory, and they propose to try
the experin1ent immediately ; Mrs A. sits in her rocking chair,
persuaded that no effect is going to follo·w, and wishing strong-
ly that none should be produced. The cerin or tissue paper
is placed before her face ; Mr A., sitting at some distance,
looks at his ·wife for a few moments and tries to ·will her to
go to sleep. But ho\v can he will such a thing, \vhen he so
eagerly wishes that the contrary should· take place ;-·-when he
js so profoundly impressed with the idea that his will can
have no effect in the present case ; when finally, he fears to
exercise his will, as he knows that his sweet dreams of for-
tune ·would vanish away as a bubble of soap, should any effect
be produced. Under such 1nental circt£1nstances the experi-
ment proposed by the profound and acute 'fninded fellow could
not but succeed : indeed Mrs A. could not be put to sleep.
N O\V reader, is it".not evident to you that the inventor of the ad-
nlirable theory above alluded to, has shown in the said expe-
riment his asinine ignorance, as \veil as a ridiculous vanity and
a base malice, instead of acting like a 1nan of con1mon sense
*This experiment is taken from l\lr Durant's book.
l'
'
45
and feeling. Indeed, could this fellow will hintself to sleep,
lVhen at the same ti1ne he strongly desires that sleep would
not touch his lids, for fear that a robber would introduce
himself into his room and steal away his n1oney? Could he
wi.ll hintself to ~oalk, when at the same time he wishes to stay
still, and is fearful that if he gets up he shall break his leg at
the first step ? Why then, did he so improperly act on_.Mrs
A.'s imagination ? why did he place J\tlrs A.'s brain between
ttvo opposite forces ? This theorician, who claims for so much
science, sho\vs yet that he is not even aware of the simplest
la\v of nature, viz. when two equal forces are acting in a direct-
ly opposite sense to each other, no motion is produced. This
law is applicable to moral as well as physical forces.
Again, the same fellow impresses on the mind of poor Mr
A. and Mrs A., that owing to his theory, ·which is calculated
(we must remember) to yield a large fortune to them, there is
and can be no such thing as clairvoyance or power of seeing,
the eyes being closed. Of course, 1\irs A.'s imagination be-
ing perplexed on thjs point, she cannot see when she is asleep !
She fails or gives wrong answers to ahnost every question
which is asked her. And the reason is plain enough. It is
because she imagines she cannot see ! Every sensible man
will easily conceive this. There are other reasons why Mrs
A.. and other somnambulists have failed in the experiments
made by the judicious theorician of whom we are speaking,
to test the po,ver of clairvoyance. In the first place, this fac-
ulty is known to be the most changeable and uncertain of all
the faculties of somnambulism. The least mental or physical
derangement will disturb it. It is, therefore, very rare that
it will fairly manifest itself when there are strangers in the
roon1, which is a circumstance always disagreeable to afemale
sornna1nbulist, particularly \vhen she is away from home, in a
large city like N e\V York. In the next place,. this mode of
vision is very painful ; the exercise of it is extremely fati-
guing, and soon overcomes the somnambulist's brain. It is
I
'~)
i '
i
r
r
-
'
46
the observation of all magnetisers of Europe and A meriea,
that a lucid so1nnmubulist cannot exercise his clairvoyance
on more than three or four objects at each experiment.
Therefore magnetisers should be careful not ~o ask of their
subjects more than they can do. So1nnambulists are gener-
ally vaiu. They prefer, when urged with questions, to guess
rather than to say they cannot see ! These are the facts ; they
may appear ridiculous and improbable to those who have no
experience in animal magnetism, but they are true, and we
must take them such as they are.
There is another and Inost powerful cause of disturbance
for somnambulists, which we 1nust mention here, although it
is deen1ed supremely absurd and ridiculous by the opposers
of {llagnetism. It is the wrong 1nental action exercised by
certain skeptics, present at the experiments. I divide the
skeptics into two classes. Some disbelieve the magnetic
phenomena, merely because they are new to them, because
they are wonderful, apparently miraculous, &c., but they are
honest, candid, open to conviction ; and they readily surren-
der themselves to evidence, when it is presented to them.
The other class is composed of persons naturally stubborn,
conceited and envious, who decide a priori that magnetism
is a deception, reject with the utmost con tempt the testimo-
nies of the most respectable witnesses, and affirm that the ex-
periments, the most satisfactory to other intelligent people,
were the result of a concerted plan. These prejudiced and
unjust men attend experiments for the sole purpose of detecting
the trick, and are unwilling to give to the science the only sure
and fair trial, by which they could arrive at the truth, viz : to
1nagnetise for themselves. It is particularly recomn1ended
by all the 1nost learn~d and judicious writers, as Georget,
Rostan, Deleuze, De Puysegur, &c. to avoid having such
characters present at the magnetic experiments. These
entinent intellects say that they have invariably observed that
their somnambulists always had to complain very n1uch of
those skeptics, and that their faculties were con1pletely de-
•
47
rtnged by their presence. This I know will appear ridicu·
lous to the vulgar ; but to those \vho reflect, it is rational and
perfectly philosophical, in admitting that every human being
Cct'r·ries with hi1nselj a nervous, rnagnetic o?~ 'llital atnwsphere,
thtt. if1to·v~rttents and fluctuations of which a1~e in direct conc01··
dtJflft~/Jft with the action exercised by the brain and the nervous
sr~rtem.* This atmosphere, indeed, is formed,by certain eman-
ations emitted by the nervo-cerebral organs. Now, we are
aware t~at the modifications of these organs derive from the
peculiar nature and tendencies of the mind and passions of
each individual. Thence a plain inference foll{)ws, that the
vital or magnetic atmosphere of such a living aggregate of n1al..
ice., self-conceit and impudence, as the above-mentioned cele..
brllted discoverer of the new theory, (so far as I can judge from
his deeds,) cannot be favorable to the magnetic experiments.
Let us reflect, indeed, that o·wing to the great change deter..
miued in the perceptive and sensorial faculties of the human
organization, during the state of somnambulism, the nervous
system of the person \vho finds himself in that state, is ren..
dered capable of feeling and appreciating, even at a distance,
and through very peculiar ways, the mental action of those
who approach hiD?. It is true that somnambulists feel their
magnetiser more than any other ; but however close their com-
munication \vith him may be, they are still more or less sen-
sible to the influence of those ·who stand about them. Expe-
rience has also proved that they feel n1ore persons of strong
power of determination and of great nervous activity; than
those of feeble ·will. It appears to me that the property that
the nervous system has, during somnambu1ism, of being so
n1ucb influenced by the vital emanations emitted around them,
is analogous to the property of electrometers to mark the
quantity and nature of electricity contained-in the atmosphere,
or emitted by certain electrified bodies ; it is likewise analo-
gous in some respects. to the capacity of a barometer for
marking the variations of the weather. That such a faculty
belongs to the nervous systetn of man, "\vhen placed under
*See my preceding Letter to Col. Stone, pp. 9, 10, I I.
48
peculiar circumstances, is not at all unlikely and surprising.,
when we kno':v that brute bodies, as the above-n1entioned
instruments, possess a similar one.
I have endeavored, in the foregoing pages, to dernonstrate
that the difference of opinion which exists in regard to the real-
ity of the magnetic phenomena originates from this main cause,
viz : some basing their judgment on positive facts, obtained
through experiments performed either by themselves or their
friends, are thus led to advocate magnetism ; whereas its op-
posers judge only from a few failures, which they consider at
once as evident proofs of deception or of the falsity of the
doctrine, without inquiring into the reason of those failures,
or taking the trouble of magnetising for themselves. I have
further endeavored to show, I st. that the magnetic experi-
•
ments are liable to fail ·when they are made under circum-
stances contrary to the free and proper operation of the agents
used ; 2d. that most magnetisers, being as yet ignorant of
the true nature of these various circumstances, and of the
peculiar structure and properties of these agents, are thus
often led to experiment at random and contrarily to all the
laws existing, but so far, hidden to them,. I have also ob-
served that it \Vould be extremely unphil6sophical to expect
as constant and uniform results from experiments on animal
magnetism, as from experitnents tnade on brute bodies and
with inorganized apparatus. ll)deed, the agent used in the
animal magnetic experiments is no other than the spirit
or vital principle of man, and the apparatus employed is the
human nervous systern and brain. Therefore, the favorable
or unfavorable circmnstances attending on experiments of this
kind must be of a peculiar description, viz : appropriate to the
well known properties and dispositions of the hutnan system.
"\Ve know, for instance, that if mankind are every \vhere alike
in the essential and general features of their organization, they
vastly differ in the details, both moral and physical. What a
variety in their bodily forms, color, and external appearance !
What a difference in their intellectual capacities and passions !
49
In. fact, variety and multiplicity of manifestations, seem to
be the attributes of human nature, more, at least, than of any
other species of organized beings. This is a primary fact ;
''e cannot account for it ; but it is, and \Ve must take it for-
granteil.
It would be, therefore, irrational to expect that every som-
nambulist should present the same phenomena to our obser-
vation. Indeed, their faculties and. dispositions vary a great
deal, a~d it is, I repeat, natural that it should be so. Some
ofthem can see ·while asleep, and their eyes being shut ; -
others cannot, even with the best of their efforts and wishes.
Some hear every person in the room, and can answer their
questions ; others hear, but cannot answer ; others,· finally,
bear nothing and nobody except their magnetiser, &c. · No,v,
we easily understand how important it is that magnetisers
should knO\V all these particulars, in order to __save both disap-
pointm.ent to their visiters, and injurious reports against the
innocent subjects of their experiments.
It will be said, perhaps, that if the dispositions of som-
nambulists are so various, i~ becomes very difficult to ascer-
tain \vhat is real or not. Very true ; but a plain consequence
follo\vs, it is that both the witnesses and operators should be
perfectly informed of the nature of what they are doing or
se~ing, and of all those causes of mistake. Then they would
conduct themselves in a proper way, to have positive results ;
they would not, like Mr Durant, take so much trouble to
find out an imaginary deception, by suggesting certain tests,
which, however ingenious, are not at all calculated to prove any
thing against the subject of inquiry. I affinn that such posi-
tiv.e results -can be easily obtained by following the proper
course. (I would beg leave to refer the reader to the nu-
merous facts contained in my work lately published, entitled
'' Animal Magnetism in New England," &c.)
If I am permitted to express my opinion, I would now ven-
ture to say, that to those who have attentively read the pre-
ceding considerations, there cannot be two ways of judging
7
,.
50
Mr Durant's Exposition of .B.nimal Magnetism. It is evi-
dent enough that this scientific theorician has exposed nothing
but his utter ignorance of the matter upon which he treats.
Every one of the pretended experiments which he has made
on l\'Irs Andros and others, for the purpose of showing the
intposition, can be referred to the cases of failure I have men-
tioned and explained through the same way as I have those
failures. These experiments, even supposing them to be true,
sho\v only an appearance of deception to superficial observers.
But they do not weigh a straw against the numerous positive
facts, by \vhich so 1nany distinguished individuals have been
convinced. Those individuals, it is true, did not resort to
the n1any vulgar and mean tricks used by Mr Durant ; not
because they had not wit enough to imagine them, but merely
•
because they saw at once that they could yield but negative
results, and \Vere altogether insufficient to bring forth evi-
dence enough to satisfy them. If Mr Durant believes
that the plan applied by him to detect the deception was some-
thing new, he is greatly mistaken. I assure him, that how-
ever shrewd he is (and I readily confess that he is remarka-
bly so,) there is many a Yankee fully equal to him in this
point. All the tricks played by him have been a hundred
times applied to my somnan1bulist, but always unsuccessfully,
because she cannot, like 1\frs Andros and others, hear what
is said in the room. I have ·n1yself often resorted to the
very same means, not merely to expose an imposition, but to
ascertain the peculiar dispositions and faculties of my new
subjects. MrS. H. Jenks of Nantucket, will remember how
severe were the tests, and how shre\vdly concerted \vas the
plan adopted by us to detect a person I had magnetised at
his house, and whom we suspected of deception. Yet the
result of these experiments, although still stronger than that
obtained by Mr Durant against Mrs Andros, \Vas not suffi-
cient to convince us that the girl \Vas not asleep ; for she
presented other pheno1nena, which could not possibly have
been feigned by a human creature in the natural state.
51
Now, reader, allow n1e to tell you frankly what I think of
Mr D.'s work. It is throughout the most inconceivable exhibi-
tion of self-conceit, impudence and vulgarity that ~ould perhaps
he presented to the world in the shape of a book. Read it, if
you please, and if you do not come to the same conclusion,
you must be . . . . at least, uncommonly forbearing. I do
not propose to enter into any particular examination of its
contents ; I wiH only say that the manner in which the author
treats Dr F. Wayland, president of Bro,vn University, Miss
Brackett, the Rev. Daniel Greene, and others, is extremely
contemptible, and deserves punishment. You will now ask
what was Mr Durant's object ? See the clap-trap engraved
on the cover of the book, and you wiH easily guess at it ;
the honest author thottght it his duty to rnagnetise the pttblic's
eyes in order to catch their pennies. 1-Iis object was to make
rnoney at any rate ; and I am sorry to say that he will ac-
complish it, for his favorite composition addresses too directly
the mischievous and vulgar tendencies of men, ·not to excite
the curiosity of all, and be greedily swallowed by many of
his kindred minds.
But I must warn those who desire and are candidly seeking
the truth, that they ought not kindly to rely on what Mr Du-
rant says ; for myself, I cannot,_credit any part of his narra-
tive ; he has, to my knowledge, committed too gross mis-
representations of the truth t_o be believed in any thing.
Jlb uno, noscite omn'ia, might be properly said of the \vhole
book ; the two following specimens of the author's antipathy
to truth, will clearly exernplify \vhat I mean. Speaking of
the Report rnade in June, 1831, by a Committee of the Royal
Academy of Medicine of Paris, he says :
'' The commi$sion spent five years with the most scrutinizing
experiments, and finally, in 1831, reported unfavorable to the
s.cience, but acknowledged in the report, having seen many ex-
traordinary and unaccountable facts, which was sufficient to
show their prejudice and total incnpability of judging in a science
in which the fundamental principles were above their compre-
hension.
52
" The respectability of the society which appointed the corn..
mission had some influence in retarding the rapid advances
which the science was making."
It is evident to n1y mind, that in the preceding remarks
the honest author has most daringly attempted to in1pose
upon the public. For the report to which he alludes, is al-
together favorable to the claims, even the most extraordinary,
of n1agnetism, and is justly considered as having formed a
new era in the history of the science. Those who have read
it, know this to be the fact. Among other conclusions drawn
from all the experiments related in the report, and which are
presented at the end of the volume, I will extract the fol-
lo\ving :
"A certain number of the observed phenomena appeared to us
as htving been produced by magnetism alone, and could not be
produced ·without it. These are physiological and therapeutical
phenomena ·well established.''
"Considered as an agent of physiological phenomena, or as a
therapeutical means, magnetis1n should be ranked within the
frame of medical knowledge, and consequently physicians alone
ought to have the privilege of using it, as it is already practised
in the northern countries of Europe."
" The comn1ittee have collected facts important enough to
allow it to believe that the Academy should encourage and favor
researches on rnagnetism, as being a very curious branch of psy..
chology and natural history."
Now, can we suppose that 1\'Ir Durant had not read the
said report ? To me, this supposition is inadmissible. But
if he had not, ho\V could he so boldly and pertinently speak
about it ?
Here is another specimen of his love of truth and fairness.
The fo.llowing letter was written by Dr I.... L. Miller, one of
the most eminent physicians_ of Providence, ·whom he men-
tions in his book as having been present at some experiments
tried by Mr Potter, on a respectable infirm young lady :
Por the Journal of Commerce.
Messrs Hale and Hallock,- Sirs, I have noticed in your daily
of the 20th inst. an extract from Mr Durant's book on Anin1al
Magnetism, respecting the case of Miss Ebon, (should be Miss
53
Aborn.) My name being mentioned in connexion with the case,
I cannot assent to the whole tnatter contained in the extract,
therefore, I wish you to do me the kindness to insert the follow-
ing in your paper. Miss Aborn has been a patient of mine for
two years or more. Her disease is lateral distortion of the spine,
unde.r \vhich her sufferings have been very severe, causing sleep-
less nights, loss of appetite, strength, &c. A long and strict per-
severance in medical treatment failing to relieve her, as a dernier
resort, I suggested the trial of animal magnetism, with the single
view of procuring rest. Her answer was-" I will assent to any
thing you think proper." I called upon Mr Potter to rnake trial
of anirnal magnetism. His first attempt was successful in about
thirty minutes. On visiting her next morning at 8 o'clock, I
found her sitting in the room, and she exclaimed with an ex-
pression. of the most perfect sincerity-" I have not had so
comfortable' sleep for hvo years, and feel as rnuch refreshed as I -......
ever did from my natural sleep." I advised her to try the ex-
pet•iment again. She was magnetised every night for some
weeks., and with but two or three slight exceptions, rested per-
fectly well and continues to, up to this tirne, without the aid of
any medicine whatever.
Her general health soon began to improve, and she now en-
joys all the comforts of quiet sleep, good appetite, &c.
I cannot imagine how Mr Durant arrived at the conclusion
that Miss Aborn is a " self-deceived smnnambulist,'' and much
more am I surprised that he should give so vulgar a description
of the progress of magnetising, together with his vile in-
sinuations. It is true, the tnagnetiser is seated in front of his
patient, and that in the process of manipulating, the hands are
passed over the limbs. But I assure you, there are no circum-
stances attending it, that \Vould excite such thoughts in an hon-
est heart.
The imbecile language she is made to use .in his extract, I
have never heard from her, and am assured by Mr Potter, she
never used it in his presence. I have no recollection of any other
experiments than the one willing the pencil a watermelon, and
willing her to awake in a given time, which I an1 very
happy to say are true. Ho·wever, this does not interest me so
much as the 1nanner in which the young lady is treated in
the extract by Mr Durant. Miss Aborn is well kno\vn to a
large circle of friends of the first respectability. Her charac-
ter here, does not need a rnoment's comment. She is a young
lady of good powers of mind, and a heart as hones1 and pure
as the one is vile which attempts to traduce it.
LEWIS L. 1\IILLER.
Providence, Oct. 27, 1837.
,...
54
The description given by Mr D. of the experiments per-
forn1ed on Miss Aborn, is such as to make even a soldier
blush. Any person of common sense and delicacy cannot
help being indignHnt at the gross outrage against decency, truth
and christia..~ charity contained in these libellous pages.
The reader will, perhaps, find me rather severe in my re-
marks. This may be ; but I beg his pardon, I cannot be
otherwise. I am a man, I feel like a man, and express my
feelings as they are. If I thought that ~lr Durant \Vere ca-
pable of appreciating rnildness, I would have been mild to-
wards him. If I thought that he would have considered si-
lence as a proof of perfect conten"pt rather than of fear, I
\Vould not even have said a word about him. But I am fully
conv~ced that such a vain and prejudiced character always
sees things through a distorted medium, and cannot but mis-
take the true sentiments of others either for homage or an
expression of dread of his superior skill. I would add, more-
over, that my feelings towards Mr D. are not those of anger
and revenge ; he has surely spoken of me in very harsh terms,
but I pay no attention to it ; I feel particularly indignant for
the irnpertinent and unjust manner in which he has ungrate-
fully presented before the public, so many respectable per-
sons from whom he had received only polite attentions at
Providence. The interest that I feel in those estimable per-
sons, as well as the love of trut)J have prompted me to \vrite
these pages ; God knows that I have been moved by no other
motive whatever.
In justice to l\frs Andros, the so1nnan1bulist, who has been
so unfeelingly imposed upon by l\:Ir Durant, I will say a word
more ; I have seen her twice in the magnetjc sleep, and she
gave me as \.Yell as to others \vho were present, indisputable
proofs that she was in·magnetic somnambulism. She had been
magnetised nearly three months, by Mr Arne. C. Potter, an
intelligent and amiable gentletnan of Providence, before she
,ever was magnetised by her own husband. She never had
55
any i·dea of going to Ne'v York, to appear before the public
as a somnambulist until very lately, when she was strongly ad-
vised to do it by several influential gentlemen from that city.
Mr Andros, induced by the hope of making his fortune, de-
termined to follow the plan suggested to him, and in conse-
quence \Vent to Ne\V York \vith his wife. But I must say,
that a few days before her departure, this lady told n1e that
she was very reluctant'to leave her home for such a purpose,
and that she 'vas doing it to comply \Vith her husband's wish-
es. I must also declare that I strongly disapproved of 1\fr
A.'s resolution, although I had rnyself no idea and never had
an inclination to go and lectttre in New York. I objected
to 1\'Ir A.'s plan, on the ground that he was incapable of pro-
perly managing a somnambulist, was totally ignorant of the
science, could not give a single explanation about the
effects produced, and was not at all qualified to face on
any occasion with a scientific man. I observed to him that
I kne\v from experience that in thus displacing his som-
nambulist, he would expose her to frequent failures, and
very probably throw himself and his innocent wife into
very serious troubles ; I finally assured hin1, that, should he
persist in his plan, I would publicly protest against his doings in
New York; it being my duty to do so, as I felt responsi-
ble for the success of animal magnetism in this country and
bound to secure all possible means to favor its free and
regular development. 1\:Ir A. did not take any notice of my
admonitions ; he \vent to New York, and exhibited his som-
nambulist, although every circumstance \vas unfavorable to his
experiments. I did not protest in the ne,vspapers, both out
of kindness towards 1\fr A., and for fear that he and others
·would have charged me ·with jealousy ; I thought it better
to keep silent. Mr A. acted then on his own responsibility.
'Vhether his wife ever 'contrived to practise deception or
not, I leave it to others to judge. But if she had, ·would it
be just and philosophical to dra\V the inference that all som-
56
nambulists do the same ? Can people, besides, decide any
thing concerning animal magnetisrn, from the conduct and
language of lVIr Andros, ignorant as he is of the matter ?*
C. P.
*I refer th'e reader to the appendix of the last edition of Col. W. L. Stone's
letter to Dr Brigham, where several wonderful and well authenticated proofs of
lucidity were afforded to him by this very Mrs A. whom Mr D. represents as an
infamous deceiver.
•
N. B. The reader will probably have noticed several grammatical inaccura-
cies and idiomatical phrases in the two preceding Essays. In preparin~ them
for the press, I was obliged to rely solely upon my own imperfect acquaintance
with the language. Those of my friends to whom I wished to submit the MS.
before publication, were so much engaged at the time that I hardly thought it
proper to withdraw their attention from their own affairs. I must therefore ask
the indulgence of the reader for this first edition. The next one (should there
be demand for another) will undergo a careful revision.
REMARKS
ON THE lVlANNER IN WHICH
THE
CLAIMS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM
SHOULD BE MET AND DISCUSSED.
[A long and very valuable dissertation under the above title, appeared some
months ago in the Bristol County Democrat, published at Taunton, Mass. We
at first intended to extract the whole of it, but are obliged, in order not to exceed
too rn.uch the proposed limits of this pamphlet, to leave out several parts of it.
These omissions, however, do not substantially alter the sense and connection of
the arguments.]
ANIMAL MAGNETISM seems, at this time, and in this vicinity,
to excite some public attention and interest. The number and
character of the believers in the reality of this mysterious po-wer,
are such as to entitle the subject to a candid consideration and
impartial examination. The question whether its claims, as pre-
sented by its advocates, are founded in truth, is one of consider-
able importance, and the evidence \vhich its advocates offer in
the affirmative should be subjected to a rigid, but unprejud~ced
investigation. It is not my intention, at present, if ever, to dis-
cuss that evidence, or to attempt to establish or controvert~ose
claims; but simply to make some remarks and suggestions as to
the 1nanner in which those claims should be met and discussed.
This seems to me to be a necessary preliminary to the actual
discussion; because, so far as I have noticed any published re·
marks on the subject, in this viciniJ.y, the writers appear to me
to have approached it in a manner and spirit little calculated to
]ead to correct results.
It n1ay be proper, in the first place, to state as distinctly as may
be, "vhat is to be understood by the term '' ani1nal magnetism."
The definition of the term and the description of the phenomena
produced, as given by Mr Poyen, are as follows;
8
58
" It is a peculiar state of the nervous system, during \vhich
some unusual physiological phenomena, not yet well appreciated,
present themselves- a state which is ordinarily produced in one
individual by the will of another, performing certain manual evo-
lutions for the purpose of causing it to take place."
" The phenornena produc.ed under the influence of the will and
gestures, vary according both to the disposition of the person to
receive the magnetical action, and the power of the magne-
tiser to exercise that action. Thus some individuals, especially
those ·who are strong and enjoy perfect health, feel nothing,
some others feel some heaviness of the eyelids, cephalgia, nau-
sea, much calm or great agitation. Finally, some are plunged
into a peculiar sleep, called magnetical sleep, and reach, after a
few sittings, that very singular state known under the name of
somnambulism. The magnetical sleep is characterized by a
complete suspension of the external senses. Somnambulisn1 is
the faculty of speaking during the sleep; of recognizing external
objects through unusual ways. and finally, of hearing nobody but
the magnetiser or the other person brought into relation to the
magnetised.''
Here, then, we have a definition of the alleged power or agen-
cy in question, and a statement of the phenomena said to be pro-
duced by it. The questions to be settled are, ·whether any such
state of the nervous system can be produced in the manner stated,
and if so, whether any such phenomena as are described, are
consequent on such a state? Now it is obvious that these are
simply questions of fact, and to be decided, like all other ques-
tions of fact, by the evidence. And in an inquiry of this kind,
what is the nature of the evidence which we are to expect, and
which ought to be required?
My first principle, in answer to the interrogation is, negatively,
that the facts are not to be proved or disproved by a course of
mere abstract reasoning. No fact in physical science ever was,
or ever can be, proved or disproved conclusively by reasoning
a priori. Facts are to be established, in the first place, by their
appropriate evidence- the evidence of experiment, observation
and testimony- and from the facts thus established, we may,
by reasoning, draw inferences and deduce conclusions as to the
causes and consequences of these facts. Facts are the data-
the basis- and the result of reasoning. You may, by reason·
ing from previously established analogous facts, sho\v, more or
less satisfactorily, the probability or improbability of another al-
leged fact; but such reasoning must always and necessarily be
inconclusive, and subject to be controlled by evidence having a
direct bearing on the question. Who, for example, \Vould ever
think of proving by abstract reasoning the fact of the falling of
59
meteoric stones from the atmosphere, or from regions beyond it ?
or the fact that a certain metal took fire and burnt up on being
itnmersed in pure, cold water ? Before any such facts were
kno'\vn to have occurred, one might, by reasoning analogically
fronl the l{nown properties and qualities of stones and the atmos-
J1here, in the one case, and of n1etals and cold water in the other,
have sho·wn, very clearly, the improbability, and might claim to
have proved demonstratively the impossibility that either of these
phenomena could take place consistently ·with the established
laws of nature. And yet the facts, in both cases, are proved, by
incontestible evidence, and are now admitted by all who have ex-
amined that evidence. Reason is to be employed in deciding
upon the nature, the credibility, the weight and the effect of the
evidence adduced in support of any alleged fact. But when
reason is satisfied that the evidence is appropriate, its credibility
unquestionable and effect conclusive, reason has nothing further
to do but to yield its assent to the truths thus established, how-
ever strange and mysterious they may appear.
* * * * * * *
The intrinsic improbability of miracles is, to say the least,
as .great as that of animal magnetism, and if similar evidence, or
evidence equally cogent, can be offered in support of animal
rnagnetistn, which its advocates do not set up as a miracle, but
merely as a recently discovered operation of the ordinary laws of
nature, consistency requires assent to that also. I do not say
that such evidence has been or can be adduced. I am not now
examining the question of the reality of animal magnetism, but
endeavoring to settle the principles upon which the examination
should be conducted, and the nature of the evidence which should
be required.
* * * * * * *
My second negative proposition is, that the truth of the al-
leged facts and phenomena of animal magnetism is not to be
proved or disproved by ' Revelation.' In this enlightened age
and country, I should not have deemed it necessary to announce
this principle, if I had not heard it asserted that some persons
refuse to believe in animal magnetism because· they consider it
contrary to scripture.
* * * * * *
The truths of nature rnay contradict the letter, but never
the spirit, of the scriptures. They may, in some instances, con-
tradict our previous private interpretation of the scriptures, but
no scripture is of private interpretation. There may be appar-
ent but there caunot be real contradictions or inconsistencies.
The scriptures speak of the rising and going down of the sun.
Astronomy teaches that the sun actually neither rises nor goes
60
down, but is stationary. This astronomical truth was once sup·
posed to contradict the scripture truth, and was accordingly de-
nounced as heresy; but that notion has long since been explod-
ed. More recently the truths of the science of geology were
supposed to be inconsistent with the truth of the Mosaic account
of the creation, and infidels rejoiced and some believers trem-
bled in view of the consequences of this discovery; but farther
researches and discoveries have shown that the revelations of
geology are not only reconcilable with, but furnish corroborative
proofs of the truth of the scriptural account, in its fair interpre-
tation, of the formation of the earth and its inhabitants. Very
recently, we learn, his holiness the pope lias issued his bull con-
demning the supposed truths of phrenology as heresies; but I
presume the advocates of that science, in this country at least,
'vill not be driven, by its terrors, to the abandonment of their in-
vestigations and pursuits. Neither do I believe that the inves-
tigations. of the enquirers into the claims of animal magnetism
'vill be abandoned on account of the tremulous apprehensions of
those "'ho have so little confidence in the foundations of their
own faith in christianity as to be alarmed lest they should be
overturned by the puny discoveries which may be made in natu-
ral science. There is nothing to be feared from an indulgence
of the sober spirit of inquiry into any subject. Christianjty is
founded on ' the rock of ages' and all the discoveries which man
can make in the la,vs, op;rations and phenornena of nature will
only contribute to the proof of its strength and immutability.
* * * * ~~ *
My third negative proposition is, that the questions relating
to the reality of animal magnetism are not to be settled by
the m.ere authority of names, and opinions of men however
learned, intelligent, and respectable. Facts are to be establish-
ed by evidence, and opinions are to be founded on facts. If the
opinions of others are not based on facts, they are baseless and
utterly ·without weight, by whomsoever entertained. If they are
based on facts, let them comrnunicate the facts to us, that we
may form our o'vn opinions. ' Have any of the rulers and of
the pharisees believed 1' is a question which, in substance and
spirit, though in various forms, has been repeated times innumer-
able, during, at least, the last eighteen centuries. But after all,
mere opinion as to matters of fact is, in general, utterly 'vorth-
less as evidence of truth.
* * * * * *
The question as to the reality ofanimal magnetism is not one of
science and skill, but of the existence of certain alleged facts and
phenomena; and upon this question the mere opinions of others,
ho,vever exalted,-whether popes or cardinals, clergy or laity,
physicians or patients, cashiers or designers, Inerchants or law-
r
61
yers, mechanics or farmers,-can have no legitimate authority,
and are of no use but to save the careless and indolent the trou-
ble of examining the evidence and forming opinions for them-
selves, by furnishing them ready n1ade to their hands.
Here it may not be improper to suggest, more distinctly, the
difference between the expressions of a mere opinion and the tes-
t~tfat!11i!Jl of a witness as to facts. The distinction would seem to
be sufficiently obvious, but still, I apprehend, it is sometimes con-
founded. When a credible 'vitness declares that a certain fact
ahout which he could not be mistaken, took phice within his per-
sonal observation, that is appropriate and competent evidence,
and m~y be considered as full proof of its actual occurrence,
though it may be in itself strange and improbable; but if he
merely expresses an opinion that a certain fact took place, about
which he kno,vs no more than I do ; or if he goes further and
expresses an opinion as to the unknown cause of that supposed
fact, this is evidence only of the state of his mind-of his opin-
ion-
_-and is not evidence of the correctness of that opinion. If
the fact which he believes took place appears to me to be more
probable than the contrary, and if the cause \vhich he assigns
appears to me to be adequate, I may adopt hi~ opinions on the
subject, but if not I am bound to reject them. In other words, I
ought not to adopt them without knowing and examining the
facts, the grounds, the evidence on which they are founded.
* * * * * * *
In discussing the question of the authority of names and
opinions in relation to the alleged phenomena of animal magnet-
ism, it seems to be necessary to advert to the report of the earn-
missioners, of whom Dr Franklin was one, appointed by the
king of France in 1784 to investigate the subject as it was then
presented by Mesmer. That report it is well known 1vas against
the claims and pretensions of Mesmer. So far as the question
submitted to them could be decided by their authority, it was de-
cided by that report. The public, with some few exceptions,
seemed to be satisfied, and -have ever since, until recently, im-
plicitly acquiesced in that decision, as a final ~ettlement of the
matter. I no~v propose to offer sorne remarks to sho-w that the
report of those com-
missioners is not conclusive on the principal
question no\V in debate, and that it rather encourages than p1·e-
cludes, further examination.
In the ..first place M de Jussieu, one of the c01nmissioners,
whose skill and judgment as a .man of science_ and an accurate
observer of the phen01nena of nature are well established and
extensively known, after carefully witnessing the experiments
with the others, and experimenting also by himself, pubJished
another report, in 'vhich. he had the independence and boldness
to express a contrary opinion, and to acknowledge the magnetic
influence and effects.
62
In the second place, the experiments ·witnessed by the com-
nlissioners differed materially, if not essentially,-both in the
mode of proceeding and in the phenomena produced,-from those
of the present day. The difference is so broad and striking that
. it may suggest a reasonable doubt ·whether both are produced on
the same principles or by the same agency. At any rate they
differ so ·widely that if the former experiments and phenomena
utterly failed to prove the reality of animal magnetism, it does
not follow that the latter must also necessarily fail. In the form-
er experiments there were oak boxes, iron rods, vocal and instru-
mental music, and a great parade and extensive apparatus of
complicated machinery. Now there is no parade, no machinery.
The operations of the magnetiser are few and simple, and little
calculated to impose even on the feeble minded and credulous,
or to produce " excited sensibility." In the former experiments,
some of the effects were convulsions, expectorations of viscous
and sometimes of bloody n1atter; involuntary and precipitated
motion of the li1nbs and body, quick internal mnscular move-
ments; cries, tears and im1noderate laughter. Now all is said
to be in general comparatively quiet; the patient generally re-
mains at rest, sometimes falling into an easy slumber, and occa-
sionally, but more rarely, into son1nambulism. Thus the facts
and phenomena but very slightly, if at all, resemble each other,
though the na-me has been retained. The apparent change of
aspect, if not of essential character, invites further investigation.
In the third place the pretensions and theory of Mesmer,
vvhich those commissioners \Vere appointed to examine, had a
tendency to lead their attention from the precise question now in
debate and to direct it to another and entirely distinct ·one. Mes-
mer pretended (and probably believed) that he had discovered
" a fluid universally diffused, and filling all space, being a me-
dium of reciprocal influence between the celestial bodies and the
earth, and living beings ;-it insinuated itself into the substance
of the nerves, upon which therefore it had a direct operation ; it.
was capable of being communicated from one body to other
bodies, both animate and inanimate, and that at a considerable
distance, ·without the assistance ofany intermediate subst.ance ;-.
and it exhibited, in the human body, some properties analogous
to those of lhe loadstone." In short he said, " Nature offers, in
magnetism, the universal means of curing and preserving the
lives of men."
This was Mesmer's theory ; and the attention of the com-
missioners \Vas directed to the facts principal1y in their relation
to this theory. The question was whether this theory was prov-
ed by the facts, and it is obvious, so far as I can judge by their
report, that they examined the facts and phenomena, almost ex-
clusively, in relation to this question. Now the facts and phe-
63
noroena certainly did not prove Mesmer's theory, and the com-
missioners therefore, very properly, reported against it. Finding
that .tkis tkeory was not established by the phenomena, the com-
missioners undertook to thebrize for themselves, and attempted
to account for the phenomena by imputing them to the agency
of imagination., i1nitation, and contagion or excited sensibility.
\Vhether this theory is more satisfactory than lVIesmer's, it is un-
necessary to our present purpose to decide. The present advo-
ca.tes of a power or agency to \Vhich-perhaps improperly, or at
least unfortunately-they also give the name of animal magnet-
ism, do not adopt the theory or the pretensions of Mesmer. If
therefore his theory and pretensions are utterly demolished, the
question no\V in debate is not thereby affected in the slightest dew
gree. The present advocates of what they called animal mag-
netism only insist on this single proposition, viz: that certain
specified facts and phenomena '!nay be produced by means of ce1·-
tain specified mental and manual operations_; but they do not rew
quire that these facts and phenomena should be accounted for in
any particular manner, or on any particular theory. Each one
may account for them as he best can, or leave their cause in its
original mystery and obscurity. Their vvish is. to establish and
multiply facts and not to theorize. The question ·whether the
proposition above announced is true or false, is that to which they
\vish to direct attention ; and that question is not only not decid·
ed., but not even touched, by the report of the commisioners of
1784.
I regret that I have not been able to find a copy at length, of
that report. I have relied on the accounts of it \Vhich are given
by Dr Willich, lately published in a ne·wspaper in this to\vn ; in
the Encyclopedia Americana, article ' Magnetism;' and in Bee's
Cycl@pedia, article ' Irnagination.' These articles were evident-
ly written by unbelievers in animal magnetism, in any sense of
those terms; and of course \Vould not make any misstaten1ent
favorable to its reality. From those accounts it appears that the
com.missioners gave a statement, in their report, of the facts and
phenomena upon \vhich their opinion was founded. It seems to
me that those facts and phenomena are of a character so extra-
ordinary and rernarkable as to invite further scrutiny. I have
already alluded to sorne of them, and shaH not repeat thern.
" Nothing," say the con1missioners, " can be more surprising, or
more inconceivable by those who have not witnessed it, than the
speetacle of these convulsions; all seem to be under the power
of the magnetiser ; a.·sign from him, his voice, his look, imme-
diately rouses them from a state of even apparent stupor. In
truth," they add, " it was i1npossible not to recognise, in these
cmzstant effects, a great power or agency \vhich held the patients
under its dominion, and of \vhich the 1nagnetiser appeared to be
the sole depositary:'
I
64
This is the literal language of the commissioners, in a re-
port which is generally supposed to have annihilated forever the
pretensions of animal magnetism. They witnessed certain ex-
periments. They acknowledge that certain surprising, and be-
fore inconceivable phenomena were produced ; that these phe-
nomena were the " constant effects'' of the operations performed
to produce them; and that these things prove the actual exist-
ence and influence of a " great power,'' which \Vas wielded and
directed at the will of the magnetiser ! Novv it seems to me that
these statements and acknowledgments of the commissioners go
very far toward establishing, if they do not completely establish,
so far as the authority of the commissioners can establish, all that
is essential in the reality of animal magnetism, in the present use
and acceptation of those terms; and they leave in dispute only
Mesmer's theory, the name, and some unessential phenomena
which were then unknown. But .I care not for the name or for
Mestner~s theory, or any other theory, even that of the commis-
sioners. The theories may be true or false without in the least
affecting the reality of the facts and phenomena. The name may
be inappropriate. It may lead the mind astray as to the proper
subject of inquiry in relation to the agency in question, by con-
necting it \vith Mesmer's theory of an all pervading magnetic
fluid. I think it has had some such unfavorable influence.
Some name expressive of the phenomena produced or of tbe
manner of producing them, without apparently assuming any
theory as to their causation, would unquestionably be better. The
agency may have no such resemblance, affinity or analogy to
animal magnetism as is suggested by its name. Abandon the
old narne, then, if you please, and give it one more appropriate.
Call it Animal Influence. Call it any one or all of the names
given to it by the commissioners-" imagination''-" imitation"
-"contagion,"- if you think them more expressive and less
liable to mislead. I admit all the facts stated by the commis-
sioners. I have no controversy \Vith them even about their
opinions as to the cause and origin of the phenomena, or the
name selected by them to designate the power by which they were
produced. They may be right in their views of all these things,
and yet the question now in debate ren1ains wholly unaffected by
their decision. Adopt their op~nions, theory and nomenclature, if
you choose. Then proceed in your experiments to ascertain, by
a careful induction of particulars, the extent, limits and uses of
the newly discovered functions of those long known and admit-
ted powers and faculties of man. Even in this view much re-
mains to be done, and the subject is worthy of farther investiga-
tion. It may lead to important discoveries in intellectual
philosophy, physiology and therapeutics. It certainly invites and
may reward your labors of research.
)
•
--
65
I hope I ,have no\V succeeded in my attempt to shew that the
question as to the claims of animal maguetism, as they are pre-
sented at'the present day, is not so completely settled and put at
rest, either by the facts or opinions stated in the report of the
French commissioners of 1784, as to preclude or even discourage
further examination.
* * * * * * *
I proceed to state~ as a fourth negative proposition, that the
question of the reality of animal magnetism is not to be settled
by ridicule, sarcasm and wit. These are very proper in their
place.. They serve for an amusing exercise and recreation,
'\vhich may, on this and most other occasions, be indulged with-
out harffi. I can enjoy the keenne~s of ridicule when aimed at
the follies, and foibles, and absurd opinions (as the belief in ani-
mal magnetism is by some supposed to be,) of men, without
wounding their feelings. I can smile at the corruscations and
brilliancy of wit, \Vhen it flashes and sparkles ·without scorching;
and I can excuse even the shafts of sarcasm, "Jhen hurled against
the arrogance of self-conceit, without lacerating the sensibility of
the modest and unassurning. But ridicule is not the test of
truth. The fear of it may cause the faint-hearted to shrink from
the avowal of those opinions against which it is directed, and
from an examination of the evidence in their support. But its
"\Vavering, flickering light is not the lamp of evidence. It can
never become a sure "lamp to the feet and light to the path" of
the lovers of science. It will never be a "pillar of cloud by day
and of fire by night'' to guide the wanderers in their journeyings
through the wilderness of doubt and ignorance, to the promised
land of certainty·and truth. The bare suggestion of this propo-
sition is, I trust, sufficient to teach the necessity of care to dis-
tinguish between ridicule and evidence, sarcasm and truth, wit
and wisdom.
1\l.[y fifth and last negative proposition is, that this question is
not to be settled by general and S\Veeping objections, however
oracular in their enunciations, sometimes advanced with little
thought and received with less consideration. Such objections
I have often heard of, and I now propose to examine a few of the
most prominent. If I mistake not, I can, ·with little labor, either
demonstrate their fallac.y, or sho\V that they are too loose and in·
definite to be distinctly met, and therefore unavailing. The ob-
jections are announced in conversation, and it may not be possi-
ble to state them in the precise words of the objectors, but I shall
endeavor, as far as may be, to retain their full force and
spirit.
The first objection I shall notice ur1der this head, is announced
in terms like the follo·wing. " I cannot believe in animal mag..
netism, because all theory is oppo3ed to it." Now if the objec-
tor, instead of using this general forn1 of objection, would co1;1de·
9
'·I
I I
I I
66
scend to enumerate and specify some theories which he supposes
are opposed to it, he might, perhaps, aiscover the fallacy of his
ovvn objection. At any rate, I should be better able to under-
stand and appreciate its force. What theories are against it?
There is a theory of the tides, a theory of gravitation, and one
Symmes once formed and announced a very curious theory of
the earth. Are all these or any other conceivable theories, (ex-
cept the objector's own theory on the very subject in question)
opposed to animal magnetism ? Have they any bearing upon it
or relation to it ? If so, I vvill thank the objector to point out the
bearing to it.
But \Vhat if all theory is opposed to it? What is theory ?
Johnson tells us it is "speculation; not practice; scheme; plan
or system yet subsisting only in the mind.'' Theory, then, how-
ever plausible, is not fact or evidence of fact. Facts may sustain
theory, but theory never can prove or disprove facts.
* ~ * * * * *
Another of these S\veeping objections is substantially this :
" I cannot believe in animal magnetism because it is contrary to
the laws of nature,-- a miracle." This general objection, like
the former, cannot be directly met and answered, but by a gen-
eral denial. The advocates of animal magnetism say that its
phenomena are not produced by a 'Violation, but by the operation
of the laws of nature. The objectors affirm the contrary. Here
is general assertion against general assertion- opinion against
opinion, and they leave the question in dispute precis~ly \Vhere
they found it- a question of fact to be proved or disproved by
its appropriate evidence. If the objector will point out some par-
ticular, established, admitted, universalla\v of nature, and show
distinctly how that law is violated by the alleged phenomena of
animal magnetism, the objection must prevail, but I have never
known this attempted.
* * * * * * *
Another objection - or rather declaration- vvhich has been
made by sorne persons possessing corporeal vigor and mental ac-
tivity, is of this kind : " I will not believe until some person shall
cause me to fall asleep by the magnetic influence." Whether
this specific piece of evidence ought to be more satisfactory than
any other, I shall not stop to inquire: The objection savors
strongly of the spirit of the unbelieving Thomas. He refused to
believe the concurrent, positive testimony of the other disciples,
and even went so far as to prescribe the precise nature and de-
gree of evidence to which alone he would yield his assent- the
evidence of two, at least, of his own senses. In that case the
required evidence was graciously furnished ; but accompanied
at the san1e time, with a gentle reproof for the slowness of his
belief. " Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believ-
67
ed; blessed are they \vho have not seen and yet have believed."
The fact, in that case, certainly required as strong proof as that
of animal magnetism; and the implied reproof of the unbelief of
Thomas shows the unreasonableness of rejecting the concurrent
testimony of numerous credible 'vitnesses to a fact, even of an
extraordinary character, about \vhich they could not be mistaken;
and of rejecting all evidence except that of our own senses and
personal experience. Some persons, I am told, have even gone
farther than this, and declared that they would not believe in
animal magnetism on any evidence whatever. This is a species
of monomania which, quoad hoc, deprives the objectors of the
characters and attributes of reasonable beings, and to them, there-
fore, I can make no reply.
Another objection-not so much to the truth of animal magne-
tism, as to an examination ofits evidence even -is that, " if true,
it is \Yrong and 'vicked, and ought not to be meddled \vith.''
This, I suppose, is merely a remnant of the old superstitious
feeling against magic, and sorcery, and the black art, and " sol-
emn compaction or conversing \Vith the devil by \vay of witch-
craft, conjuration and the like." It is a feeling un,vorthy of the
present enlightened age, and I presume very ljmited in its influ-
ence. We need not fear that we shall ever discover any truth
\vhich God intended to conceal from us. Our po\vers of investi-
gating and comprehending truth \Vere given us \Vith the intent
that they should be successfully exercised. Truth- all truth-
is essentially good. It is good in itself and good for man, though
he may pervert it to evil by his o\Vn \Vickedness. If the power
ascribed to animal magnetism is a reality, it is a1ready discov-
ered, and the knowledge of it cannot be annihilated. If the good
reject it and refuse to employ and direct it to benevolent objects,
the wicked may cultivate and pursue it in order to pervert it to
their O\Vn unholy purposes. I have little faith in the declaration
of some of its enthusiastic advocates, that it can be successfully
exercised only when undertaken from good motives and for be-
nevolent ends. All truth and all human power, so far as I kno\v,
may be abused as \vell as used, and I have yet seen no evidence
to satisfy me that animal magnetism, if a reality, is an exception
to the general rule. If, then, there is such a po\ver and agency
as that which is ascribed to anirnal magnetism, it is, I humbly
insist, not only the right, but the duty of the virtuous to inve~ti­
gate it thoroughly, that they tnay not only use it themselves for
purposes of benevolence, but tnay discover and apply the means
of counteracting the arts and machinations of the depraved to
pervert it to the accomplishment of their own guilty designs. If
there is evidence sufficient to raise even a ~light presumption of
its reality, \Ve should seek the light of further evidence on the
subject, and follow wherever that light may lead us, without fear
68
or faltering. I arn not so enthusiastic as to expect that any dis-
coveries which 1nay be made in relation to this power, if it is a
reality, will effec.t any great revolution in human affairs. I do
not believe that it will furnish a panacea for the cure of all mala-
dies ; a rail road conveyance to the acquisition of all knowledge;
or a remedy for all the nameless "ills that flesh is heir to." I ask
only a sober exan1ination of its evidence, its capacities and its
uses.
I have never, amongst all the objections, heard any one of the
objectors say, " I have faithfully and repeatedly tried the experi-
ment on others, and submitted to its trial on myself; I have also
\Vitnessed repeated trials of it upon and by others of different
ages, sexes and temperaments; and all \vithout success, and
without perceptible effect." Such an objection, if made, would
be entitled to grave consideration, but until made, I am not called
· upon to meet and examine it.
I now proceed to consider the last oracular objection to ·which
I shall refer under this head. It is this. "I cannot,'·' say the
object"rs, " believe the reality of animal magnetism, because its
pretensions are an assumption of the essential attributes of Jeho-
vah,- Omnipotence, Ubiquity, and Omniscience." Let rne
again ask the objector to be more specific. Which of the essen-
tial facts and phenomena of animal magnetism assumes these, or
either of these attributes of the Deity? Who claims to possess
them ? Does 'he usurp the attribute of ornnipotence, who express-
ly disclaims the power to operate, with equal efficacy, on all, and
even to produce any perceptible effect on some? Does he usurp
the attribute of ubiquity, vvho exercises the po\ver to discern
some external objects by unknown means and to a limited extent,
though the precise limits may be undefined and may vary with
varying circumstances ? Does he claim the attribute of omni-
science, who distinctly admits his utter ignorance of the nature,
essence and efficiency of rneans in the production of their
effects? -
Man, with all his ignorance, and dependence: and weak-
ness, and frailty, and folly, and sin, can do some few things by
the aid of his acknowledged, though limited and derived powers.
He can fell forests, erect palaces, build cities, level mountains,
mould the refractory rocks into forms of gracefulness and beau-
ty, guide, direct and disarm in some measure the lightning, and
subject the elements of nature to his will. He can subdue the
beasts of the field, the fowls of the air, and the leviathans of the
ocean, and compel them to minister to his necessities and plea-
sures. He has power, too, over his fellow men. There is pow..
er in the eye of man ·when it beams \Vith benevolence or burns
with indignation-.a power acknowledged and felt wherever it is
seen, and which has caused ev~n the tiger to quail and shrink
!'' ...
69
from its steady and determined gaze. There is a my~terious
and fascinating, but mighty power in the. eye of fernale beauty
-a power \vhich has charmed the ferocity of the savage, sub-
dued the strength of the valiant, softened the audacity of the
bold and unrelenting, melted the heart of the cruel, and com-
pelled the proud despot to kneel before it and sue for favor. The
conqueror has power to levy and command armies, ravage na-
tions, subject them to the s\vay of his sceptre, and bind them in
fetters of iron ahd bands of brass. Even in our O\vn boasted
land of freedom and equal rights, man exercises the power to
hold millions of his fellow men in abject slavery, to subject their
bodies,_ and, if it be his pleasure, to crush them beneath hjs heel.
All these things man has the acknowledged power to perform
and actually does perform, but if he dai1ns a power to cause a
fellow man, less vigorous than himself, to fall asleep, he arro-
gates to himself the attribute of omnipotence! !
He can harness the winds and the vapors to his ships and
his cars, con1pel then1 to do his bidding, and cause them to trans-
port his person and his \Vealth " to the uttermost parts of the
ea..rth and of the sea." He can rise from the dust, poise himself
in mid air, ride on the wings of the wind, and behold the earth
and its inhabitants rolling beneath him. With his " visual orbs''
he can penetrate the realms of space, number the stars that ap-
pear in the firmament, and call them by their names. He can
·watch the planets in their courses, weigh their masses~ measure
their distances, and foretell their places amidst the heavenly
constellations at all future periods of time. He can gaze on the
galaxy, \Vander through the \vilderness of suns that glitter
through the abysses of space, pass from Sirius to Orion; from
the Pleiades to regions beyond the uttermost visible star, and
there \Vonder and adore in the midst of the magnificence of this
immeasurable temple of the lVIost High. All these things man
has the acknowledged po\ver to perform and actually does per-
form, but if he pretends to discern by unknown means, a few ex-
ternal objects on earth, \vhich are beyond his own or others' or-
dinary ken, he usurps the attribute of ubiquity ! !
From the silence and secrecy of his closet, he can utter
without even an audible whisper, his behests of business, his ar-
dors of affection and his agonies of unrequited love ; and the
strength of the horse, the power of steam, the skill of men and
the energies of governmental agency are forth,vith \Yielded to
speed his utterings to their destined object, however remote.
From the deep recesses of his o\vn mind, he can send forth his
invisible thoughts, embodied in visible forms- his thoughts that
bt·eathe in words that burn-,the glowing emanations of wisdom
aud virtue-to enlighten, and instruct, and cheer the millions of
the civilized world. He can transmit those thoughts,-invisible,
I
, I
70
intangible, inaudible as they are-to the unborn millions of all
future nations, and ages, and kindred, and tongues. On the
\Vings of imagination he can fly bade to the source of the stream
of time-to the period \Vhen light first dawned on the infant
creation-and listen to the song of the morning stars and the
shout of the sons of God. IJe can, by the same power, summon
around him the departed spirits of the sages and patriarchs and
prophets of the ' olden time ;' behold their venerable forms and
catch the accents of holiness and inspiration flowing warm from
their lips. He can hear the indignant denunciations of Isaiah,
the tender and pathetic wailings of Jeremiah, and the melting
harmonies of the harp of David. He can pass on to the final
consummation of all things, join in the hosannas of saints and
angels in the realms of bliss, and bathe and revel in the efful-
gence of uncreated glory. All these things he can do by the aid
of his acknowledged powers,-weak, frail, dependent, sinful as
he is-but if he clahns the power of communicating a single
volitiq,n from his own mind to that of his brother in his imme-
diate presence, he is guilty of robbing ~he Almighty of his attri-
butes and usurping 01nniscience!! I have now~done with objec-
tions.
* * * * * *
In rem.oving these objections I have been led into such a
series of remarks, and have made so many suggestions relating
to the principal objects I had in view, that little remains to be
done. I shall therefore only announce as distinctly as may be,
a fe\V affirmative propositions applicable to this inquiry, and then
relieve rny readers from their wearisome task.
The first proposition as to the manner in which the claims
of animal magnetism are to be 1net and discussed, is, that it
should be done \Vith unprejudiced, impartial and candid minds,
and with a sincere love of truth. Prejudice is always a great
and sometimes an invincible obstacle to the acquisition of correct
knowledge on any subject. The mind which is prepossessed by
it, views facts and evidence through a distorting medium, and
-..veighs thern in an uneven balance. The very first requisite,
therefore, to successful investigation is impartiality, and a sin-
cere disposition to view every fact in its simplicity, and to give to
every kind and uegree of evid.ence its due \Veight and impor-
tance. Bllt this state of mind is not all that is necessary. There
must be,
Secondly. An active desire to ascertain where to learn facts,
to seek evidence, and to follow wherever, and to whatever con-
clusion that evidence may lead. A mere passi·ve state of mind,
however impartial and candid it may be, is not enough. The
maxim, that ' truth is great and will prevail,' is correct only in
a restricted sense. It is often unable to prevail over obstinate
prejudice, and it poss·esses no inherent energy and activity by
,... = a
71
'vhich it can fo1·ce its way into the passive and indolent mind.
It ttlJlst be loved and sought and \Vooed in order to be won.
Thirdly. The lovers of truth in this matter should make the
in;vestigation of it a common cause. They should therefore be
solicitous to receive and communicate, fully and freely, all the
light and evidence which they respectively possess. The insu-
lated .experiments of a few individuals, pursuing their investigaw
tiona in secrecy and silence, may do something; but if they hide
tkeiJ:r light under a bushel, and refuse to communicate or receive
aid,. their success will be comparatively small and their progress
slow.
Fourthly. The grea( object, in the present state of the in-
quiry, should be to ascertain and establish facts, in all their na-
kedness and simplicity. All theories, all preconceived opinions,
all speculations about causes, should, as far as possible, be dis-
carded.. Let FACTs, numerous facts,-facts in all their multiplied
forms and varieties, be first settled, and then let those who will,
form theories and systems to account for them. These may be
useful for some purposes, but at present \Ve are not prepared for
them. All science consists exclusively in a knowledge of facts.
We even learn the laws of nature, about \vhich we hear so much,
only from the facts ofnature. Those laws are not, in general,
revealed to us by instinct, intuition or inspiration, but by a slo\v
and careful induction of numerous particular facts. Let facts
then, at least- for the present, be the exclusive objects· of attention
and research.
These are the principal rules which I have wished to enforce
as to the manner and spirit in which the claims of animal mag-
netism should be met and examined. They are equally applica-
ble to investigations on all other questions of natura] science, and
I should not have thought it necessary to allude to such obvious
principles, had I not some reason to fear that they had been over-
looked in their application to this particular subject.
I now proceed to make a few remarks as to the nature and
sources of the evidence to be required to establish the reality of
animal1nagnetism. From the preceding observations it n1ay be
perceived thatfacts are the only sure basis of knowledge, and
should therefore be the primary objects of attention. The in-
quiry is, then, what is the nature, or what are the sources of
evidence in support of the facts and phenomena of the magnetic
influence? The answer is plain and simple. They are and can
be only the three following.
First. Our own personal experience. If \Ve have person-
ally felt and exercised the magnetic power, by being effectually
magnetised ourselves or by having rnagnetised others, under cir-
cumstances which preclude all suspicion of deception or delu-
sion, we then have evidence, irresistible and conclusive to our
own minds, of the reality of its agency. Any two persons can
72
try this experiment. If successful, it will satisfactorily establish
the affirmative of the question in debate. If unsuccessful, it \Vill
not conclusively prove the negative, because one or both of thern
may be destitute of the susceptibility or power of the magnetic
influence. There is another source of evidence.
Secondly. Personal observation of experiments upon and
by others. The effect of this kind of evidence will be propor-
tioned to the number and character of the parties and the nature
and variety of the experiments. They may be equivocal, or
they mny be such as to preclude all doubt. But our personal
experience and our opportunities of personal observation must be
lin1ited, and consequently our kno,vledge of facts, derived from
these sources may be less extensive than might be wished.
There is, then, one other source of evidence to supply this de-
ficiency. It is,
Thirdly. The testi1nony of others as to their experience
and observation. This presents an extensive field of inquiry
and if faithfully cultivated, it may yield much fruit. It is a very
important source of evidence, and means should be adopted to
enable us to reap all its benefits. This may be by conversation,
by epistolary correspondence, or by a publication, for general in-
formation, of all 'veil a:uthenticated facts and phenomena 'vhich
may be discovered. The testimony of witnesses thus obtained,
as to facts, may be as satisfactory as the evidence of our own
senses a.nd observation, and therefore should not be rejected or
disregarded, but diljgently collected and faithfully applied.
* * * * * *
I 'vould, in conclusion, recommend to those who are inter-
ested in this question, and who believe that the affirmative of it
may possibly be true, to form themselves into a class or classes
of convenient numbers, for the purpose of rnaking experiments
and keeping a record of all the facts and phenomena \Vhich may
occur. The record should c.ontain a statement of every experi-
ment \Vhich should be tnade, whether successful or unsuccessful;
of the ages, health and temperament of the parties, and of the
sitnple facts and phenomena, if any, that should occur. , The
record of these experiments and phenornena, should, from time
to time, be revised, arranged under appropriate heads, and a com-
plete synopsis of them prepared, for easy reference. The report
of the late commissioners of·the Royal Society of Medicine in
Paris on this subject,.may be recommended as a model of the
form in which such experiments should be tried and their results
stated. A correspondence with other classes or individuals en·
gaged in similar experiments might ·also be carried on with great
mutual advantage. An authentic repository of facts may thus
be formed, which '\¥ill do tnore to,vards settling the question in
debate than can be done by all the logomachy of a thousand
talkers, 'vhether objectors or advocates, in a '\vhole century.
ENQUIRER.
