{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__andrea___the_technique_of_the_disciple.pdf","mytitle":"The Technique Of The Disciple","mylang":"de"}
Cedjmtgtie of the j^isriple
By R a y m u n d A n d r e a , F. R. C.
Grand Master of the Rosicrucian Order
for Great Britain
Author of
"The Technique of the Master”
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME XVI
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
SUPREME GRAND LODGE OF AMORC
Printing and Publishing Department
FIRST EDITION
Copyright, August, 1935
By AMORC
P R I N T E D A N D B O U N D I N U • 6 . A . BY
R O S 1 C R U C I A N P R E S S , L T D .
S A N J O S E , C A L I F O R N I A
_
Dedicated with Gratitude
to
H a r v e Sp e n c e r Le w is
Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order
for T^orth and South
America
V V V
The Rosicrucian Library
v v v
Volume I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
Volume II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business.
Volume III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
Volume IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In preparation.)
Volume V. “Unto Thee I Grant.”
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
Volume VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
Volume VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
(A Vocational Guide.)
Volume VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
Volume IX. Mystics at Prayer.
Volume X. Rosicrucian Healing.
(In preparation.)
Volume XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
Volume XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
Volume XIII. The Technique of the Master.
Volume XIV. The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid.
Volume XV. The Book of Jasher.
Volume XVI. The Technique of the Disciple.
(Other volumes will be added from time to lime.
W rite for complete catalogue.)
Contents
P AGE
Introduction.....................................................................9
CH A P TER
I. The Neophyte Entering on the Path . . . 13
II. The Initial T e st ........................................... 23
III. The Neophyte and Se r v ic e ...................... 33
IV. The Neophyte and In itiat iv e ..................45
V. The W ill of the N eoph yte.......................59
VI. The Demands of Discipleship— 1. . . . 69
VII. The Demands of Discipleship—2 .. . . 85
VIII. The Demands of Discipleship—3. . . . 101
IX. The Organic Structure of the Technique..115
X. The Disciple in A c t io n ...........................133
XI. The Inquisition of F i r e ...........................149
INTRO DUCTIO N
In ray book, “The Technique of the Master,”
I outlined certain basic principles of thought and
action, and methods of esoteric discipline, which
appear to characterize the Master during the train
ing of a disciple. These principles and this dis
cipline constitute the necessary foundation upon
which a disciple has to build through graduated
development a comprehensive structure of tech
nical equipment in order to attain to high initia
tion. I tried to sketch the subject from the Mast
er's point of view. I took it for granted that read
ers accepted the fact of the existence of the Mast
ers as living personalities, actually operative on
this material plane as well as on the Cosmic plane,
having full knowledge of the activities of the
Order to which we as members are attached, and
inspiring certain advanced initiates in carrying on
those activities.
Obviously, for those who do not accept this fact
of the existence of such Masters, the technique of
the Master and of his disciple can have little signi-
f 9 ]
ficance. Rosicrucianism, in its esoteric aspect, is
grounded upon the fact of Cosmic attunement, a
personal alignment with Cosmic forces, by means
of which its disciple enters the state of super-
consciousness. The technique of the Rosicrucians
has its origin in the superconscious realm. There
fore its laws and principles must emanate from
perfected technicians who are conversant with that
realm. W e say there exists a Rosicrucian Hier
archy, a section of the Great W hite Lodge, con
sisting of Masters specially deputed to promulgate
a technique in which these laws and principles
inhere.
In its outer aspect, the Rosicrucian Order is an
organization disseminating a systematic teaching,
thoroughly practical and of approved utility in the
world; and of a deeply mystical and esoteric char
acter, in its inner aspect. It is in this latter aspect
that the operative force resides and indeed gives
direction and stability to the manifold applications
and uses in the everyday world. It is herein also
that the technique silently acts and reacts through
its chosen channels and is brought to bear with
knowledge and understanding upon the lives of
£io)
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
those who enter and work in the Order. Without
this technique, working silently and understand-
ingly from the inner fraternity of the Order in and
through the outer organization, the latter would
cease to be; and the technique, wanting this field
for its action and use would remain an isolated
and unapplied possession of its proficients.
In this work I have endeavoured to treat the
subject from the point of view of the neophyte as
he seeks to qualify from the outset of his studies,
knowing little of the path before him, or how his
new departure in life will react upon himself and
his environment. It is not an easy task to embark
upon; but I propose to write from my own ex
perience of the path and take the young aspirant
step by step along with me, until light and knowl
edge dispel doubt and hesitancy and he finds the
technique unfolding in his mind and soul and ex
pressing skilfully in his hands in the one great ser
vice to which we have dedicated ourselves, the
service of the Master.
V V V
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
[ >1 ]
C h a p t e r I.
TH E NEOPHYTE ENTERING ON
TH E PATH
M ASTER said to his pupil: “But you
have to remember that you are at a hard
school, and dealing now with a world en
tirely distinct from your own.” No better
admonition could be given to the neophyte enter
ing upon his studies. It is an admonition of warn
ing and encouragement. He is invited to remember
that he is entering upon a condition of pupilage
in which thought and action are to receive a new
direction and intention; that he is taking a path
totally different from the worldly path he has trod
den hitherto, and must be prepared to conform to
new principles none too easy to accept perhaps at
the threshold, because some of them will oppose
firmly rooted personal beliefs and opinions. But
there is great encouragement in the fact that he
is placing himself under the tuition of teachers
who know the path experimentally which he pro-
[ 1 3 ]
poses to take. They know the difficult stages of it.
Just where he will falter they have perfect con'
fidence and can lift him up. The admonition re
minds one of the impressions experienced in school
days when we were warned of the difficulties
awaiting us on passing from the junior to the
senior classrooms, and encouraged to persevere in
them. It was truly the entering into an entirely
different world, and the first steps in it were dif
ficult. Promotion to it came in the natural course
of events: it was inevitable if we were to attain
to intellectual manhood. But in the case of the
neophyte, entering upon the path is a matter of
personal choice. He elects to advance from intel
lectual to psychic and spiritual manhood. He may
do this as unconcernedly as he changed classrooms,
in which case the admonition will have far more
warning in it, but no less encouragement than in
the case of the man who passes on with the strong
resolution to make the most of a great opportunity
to equip himself with a fine and useful culture.
Whatever happens to the former type of neophyte,
the latter will find in himself the patience and per-
[ H ]
T H E TECHNIQUE O F T H E D I S C I P L E
severance which the higher school of life will de
mand of him.
Entering upon the path means a new departure
in life; in a sense, a parting of the ways. If it is
regarded by the neophyte as just another interest,
desirable because others have taken the step, that
attitude of mind may soon fail him. It cannot be
taken as a pastime with others and with indifferent
purpose. He can only make headway on his own
native strength. Exceptional strength is not re
quired in the beginning, but there must be cour
age and initiative to use that which he has. His
studies will soon demonstrate to him what measure
of strength is his. And if he wills to advance he
will apply it confidently to the new task of soul
culture and find it developing and preparing him
for the higher grades.
The first thing the neophyte has to realize is,
that his studies will initiate him into a different
world from the one he knows. The failure to
recognize this fact has caused many a neophyte
to cast aside impatiently the very knowledge and
discipline he most needed. If the studies offered
him had in view only the extended information of
£m
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
THE T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
a senior classroom, they would obviously be a
superfluous institution. But this is not so. They
comprise well tried systems of scientific teaching
and technical instruction designed to turn the neo-
phyte’s attention inward upon himself, his com
plex constitution and innate possibilities as a
spiritual and psychic being, and they necessarily
explore avenues of mental procedure excelling in
promise anything he knows and accepts in every
day life. Observe then, that the more firmly ad
justed, the more confirmed he is in his adherence,
to the worldly standard of knowledge and achieve
ment, the greater may be the initial difficulty he
will experience on his first encounter with the new
scale of values the studies will disclose to him.
Let the neophyte assure himself of this fact,
that the studies he enters upon hold the key to a
new world of progress. No matter what his sym
pathies may be with accepted standards of thought
and action, or what his achievements in any field
are, he is circumscribed within the relatively
limited frontiers of those sympathies, nor can he
extend his achievements beyond those frontiers,
until he consciously concerns himself with the soul
[ 16]
factors that remain latent, but unrecognized, in
the background of his activities.There awaits him
a new world of thought, emotion and action which
can only be possessed by giving his well known
factors of expression a subordinate position and
looking to the soul for the unfoldment of those
super-faculties which in time will enlarge the
whole mental horizon for him.
The neophyte may be a student of literature, art
or science: all the accepted canons of his branch
of study may be familiar and comprise the main
portion of his mental content and be applicable by
him in commendable demonstration, of the high
est pleasure to himself and of much utility to
others; nevertheless, through his training on the
path he will find it possible to raise all these activi
ties into a new dimension of added power and in
fluence. Art may become more expressive, en
shrining itself in more beautiful and diviner types;
literature may become a sublime pageant of the
biography of the soul, invested with secret mean
ings hitherto undreamed of; and science, instead
of being the dull record of irreconcilable facts, may
disclose an illumined avenue of approach to con-
[ 17]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
tact with invisible and magical forces. This is a
wonderful truth for the neophyte to ponder at
the threshold. The adumbrations of an unique
career on the path may fall silently upon the mind
like a celestial vision. Let him hold it fast and re-
solve to demonstrate the possibilities of it. W hat'
ever he has and prizes dearly can be re'created,
clarified and oriented in spiritual vision, and be'
come a thing of sheer beauty in the light of the
soul. Nothing of value which he brings with him
on to the path will be taken away: no ideal he
has striven for, no work he has fostered through
the years, need be renounced. These mental pos-
sessions are his present strength, and on that he
will make his way. Now, for the first time, all his
acquirements of mind and soul are to be rightly
understood and assessed and their range of ser'
vice and use in all probability increased through
an understanding of the laws of transmutation.
It will be interesting to ask, what it is that
causes the neophyte to gravitate towards and take
up the studies of the path? The answer of many
will be that it is entirely for the purpose of spir'
itual evolution. In a large percentage of cases this
[ 18]
TH E T ECH H 1SIUE OF T H E DISCIPLE
is not so. There is undoubtedly no small percent'
age who have no such object in view. A careful
observation of the lives of various neophytes and
their subsequent work and progress proves this
conclusively. If every neophyte taking the path
was bent solely upon spiritual evolution the world
would probably lose in no long time some of its
most promising and able workers and pioneers in
the realms of practical activities. At first sight this
may appear an unwarranted statement. But ex-
perience is stronger than prejudice. Many a neo-
phyte—and observe, the neophyte is not necessar-
ily a young person, but may be and often is of ma-
ture age—enters upon occult and mystical studies
for the sole purpose that his chosen profession or
life activity may be further advanced by relating
it more intimately and forcefully with the secret
source of power and revelation which those studies
unfold. The purpose is a wise one and fully justi-
hed; and if there were more in the occult ranks
with the same purpose in view the world would
be richer for their presence. The purpose is justi
fied for this reason: such a neophyte will find that
the creations of art and the discoveries of science
[ 1 9 ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
originate in the minds of exceptional men and are
the offspring of high inspiration. It is the super-
element in them which attracts the neophyte and
makes him a lifelong devotee of these master
minds. And if he ever hopes to emulate them, or
indeed to understand their work rightly, he must
approach them from a higher level than that of the
everyday world. These creators work from the
world of mystical and occult forces, whether they
know and acknowledge it or not, and to that world
the neophyte must look for a full understanding
and appreciation of them. The finest things in life
are wrought out in a hard school whose laws are
entirely distinct from those operative in the school
of the world. These laws await the neophyte’s dis
covery and application in the studies of the path;
and he is as fully justified in seeking their assist
ance to make him a greater artist or scientist, or
professional man, at the point of evolution where
he stands, as for the purpose of the highest mys
tical and spiritual research and demonstration.
I have known clever students in many lines of
activity whose complete outlook and grasp of the
truth and principles relating to their profession
[20]
TH E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
have been widened and reorganized through a
period of mystical training. The discipline was
strange to them and appeared to promise little at
the outset; but their keenness and conscientious'
ness, and the desire to be of practical use in the
world, enabled them to quickly surmount the
initial difficulties. The soul began to awaken to its
possibilities and an influx of strength from a larger
consciousness soon extended over the whole life.
There is nothing mysterious about the process of
such an unfoldment. It is as natural as the open'
ing of a flower. The neophyte enters upon the
work with a feeling of curiosity as to where it will
lead him, and in a little while it often happens that
he finds himself upon strangely familiar ground.
The seed has been sown in a former life, and in
contacting others seriously bent upon the studies,
the strong vibration of their concerted efforts,
working silently upon his life and thought, does
as much as the work itself in his hands in quicken'
ing latent growth and bringing him to a feeling of
security as a unit in the group to which he belongs.
That is a factor he must keep firmly in mind.
Although the early stages of his study may present
[ 21 ]
THE T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
him with principles foreign to his habit of thought,
the neophyte does not progress on his own unaided
strength. Directly he links himself with others on
the path he comes more and more to feel the re'
active influence of these students upon himself.
The law of mental attraction at once comes to his
assistance, and a process of attunement with many
working to the same end augments his forces and
proves to him the great value of cooperative evo'
lution as a guarantee of future advancement. In
this way he finds his place on the path, and those
who supervise his training will see that he receives
encouragement and assistance commensurate with
his need.
V V V
[22]
C h a p t e r II.
TH E INITIAL TEST
H ATEVER the particular reason may be
that attracts the neophyte to the disci'
pline of the path, the real objective should
be that of service. His aim may be new
creative ability and increased influence in his pro-
fession or other activities, or it may be, as said, en^
tirely for mystical and occult purposes: in any case
his power for service will undoubtedly be extended
and, when all is said and done, world service of
some kind should come to influence his researches
on the path. Some, we know, enter upon occultism
out of mere curiosity, and they usually quickly fall
away. My concern is not with them. I have in
mind primarily the neophyte who believes in the
existence of undiscovered powers and abilities in
himself and is resolved to awaken the sleeping self
within and follow in the footsteps of the great
teachers who stand in the forefront of evolution.
Nothing less than that will satisfy the aspiring soul
[23 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
who is aware of the perplexing conditions of
modern life, the peremptory challenges and unique
opportunities which evolution is forcing upon us,
and the great need for able men to meet and use
them.
The neophyte who recognizes this need will re'
gard himself as a volunteer to a life of discipline,
the object of which is to give him skill in service.
As a preliminary in this discipline he is to culti
vate a responsiveness of the personal self to the
soul which is to ultimately dominate all his activi
ties. He will seek to transfer the emphasis he has
placed so completely upon the objective self, to
that informing entity within which will gradually
assert its control and initiate him into new areas
of consciousness through a growing responsiveness
to subtle vibrational measures hitherto unrecog
nized. That is really the whole problem: the cen
tering of attention upon the indwelling self and
the expression of its powers in service, as distinct
from the emphasis, relatively selfish, hitherto
placed upon the objective personal self. Terms
should not confuse the neophyte here. Whether
through previous study he has come to think of
f 24]
himself as soul and body, ego and personality, or
the master within and his vehicles of expression,
the problem is the same. The divine fire is within
and acts and vibrates throughout its own subtle
apparatus, and the mortal self seeks through all
experience and self'imposed discipline to unveil
the hidden glory that it may shine forth and illu
mine the temple. The conscious ascension from
the objective plane to that of the divine self is the
path of discipline which the volunteer elects to
tread in order to qualify for service which is the
first step in the evolution of the superman. This
should be the objective of the neophyte. But even
if all neophytes recognize it, there is, as in other
spheres, a diversity of types; and while a few of
them will settle down quickly and knowingly,
with a clear conception of the work to be done
and make that kind of progress which compels
recognition, the other types, worthy of all accepts
tion, will have to ponder every step and proceed
with anxious questionings and partial assurance.
The few take the path boldly, with a feeling of
intimacy, and with the objective clearly outlined
[ 25]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
in mind. The others take it hesitantly, because
they are on unfamiliar ground.
This marked difference between the types of
neophytes is a fact of much importance for those
who supervise their work and progress. There is
nothing in this discrimination to deter or discour'
age those who are new to the path. It should
rather inspire them to the necessary effort to grasp
a great opportunity. But the swift advance of the
few over the preliminary stages of discipline is a
happy indication that they are rapidly unfolding
latent occult capacity. Among these we expect to
find those to whom the Master referred when he
said: uW e will always find volunteers to replace
the tired sentries.”
That is why a powerful occult organization is
the most wonderful institution and the most
promising in the world today, far exceeding in
reality and technical equipment the universities of
miscellaneous knowledge and influence. To such
we have to look for the flower of our present
humanity. Souls who have passed through the
fires of crucial experience, who know the strong
vibration of life and now stand at a remove from
{26}
it, not because they have renounced it but because
they understand and can impose their will upon
it, who find peace and inspiration in the silent high
places of the soul within and draw secret strength
thence, as a charge and responsibility not as a mere
personal satisfaction, and give them back in mani'
fold forms of service,—these souls stand and serve
in solid and mindful cooperation, and from them
the neophyte is sure of a ready response. To feel
themselves destined at no distant time, but possibly
within their present incarnation, to take their place
among these teachers, with the ability to exercise
an evolved technique in the lives of incoming
neophytes, should be sufficient to inspire the prom'
ising few, if not the others, with strong purpose
and levelheadedness to pursue their studies with
unusual seriousness and a sense of increasing
responsibility both to themselves and to their
fellow students.
At this point of a preliminary recognition of
his value as an awakening soul, with an expansive
vista of attainment ahead, it is as necessary for the
neophyte to exercise a reasonable restraint as to
foster the eager aspiration for advancement. In
[27]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
one form or another fanaticism usually besets this
type. On coming into his own on the path every'
thing in the economy of life calls for a new valu
ation. He is thrown a little out of focus with things
as they are. He has to adjust himself to many
subtle changes transpiring within. Life expression
in the personality does not like to be diverted from
its wonted course. Psychology furnishes a reason
for this. The mentation and action of years have
fashioned the mind and moulded the texture of
brain and body to able response and the require
ments of environment, and a growing attunement
with the soul can have but one result. The old
rhythm must give place to the new; and the more
rapid the attunement and the released force and
knowledge of latent growth into the conscious
field, the greater will be the need for alertness and
flexibility in adjusting to the personal life.
Many neophytes are acutely tried just here.
They ask for advancement and compel it, and
straightway the law of attraction brings them into
the midst of the battlefield with a host of opposing
influences confronting them. Some immediately
recognize the situation and welcome it. Others
£28]
display weakness and cry for deliverance from that
which their own efforts have invoked. But there is
the test for the volunteer. The right man will
stand his ground however circumstances turn
round upon him. He knows that this revolution
in the personal life is precisely the point at issue
and will risk anything to master it. He knows he
cannot pass up to the higher levels of conscious'
ness without meeting the exigencies of the ascent.
Even the senior classroom has a new master and a
tough curriculum, and punishment of a sterner
quality. But they mould youth into capable mam
hood. It is the same all through life. W e cannot
gain the greater things on the same terms as the
lesser. Yet that is what so many students expect
to do. They have to learn that the soft induce-
ments which enabled them to assimilate the alpha
bet do not accompany the mathematics of life. I
confess that sometimes, when I have seen a neo
phyte grappling with the initial difficulties inci
dent to the swift recovery of latent faculty stimu
lated by the forceful demand for progress, I have
momentarily doubted the kindness, but not the
wisdom, of pressing him forward. This reflection
£29 ]
T H E TECHNIQUE OF T H E DISCIPLE
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
arises from the indelible memory of one’s own ex-
periences, and a solicitude as to whether the neo
phyte will have the strength to meet what awaits
him.
Hitherto he understood himself tolerably well:
he was at peace with himself. His strength he
knew, because no unknown elements had tested it.
Confined views directed to personal ends have a
gratifying strength of their own, self-sufficient and
intolerant of interference; and when the narrow
barriers, which alone support him, are suddenly
removed through the neophyte's own efforts, the
resulting experience is often a humiliating one. He
does not altogether welcome the process of dis
illusionment. Yet this is what his discipline has in
view. It teaches a true self-awareness which leads
to attunement with higher forces; and from that
time onward the personal life must adjust as best
it can to the potencies which gradually unfold
into consciousness the biography of the spiritual
man.
The neophyte can never hope to know himself
until his strength has been sharply tried as to what
sort it is. It will be well for him if the days that
[30]
are gone have held their full portion of aspiration,
struggle and suffering on the plane of purely per
sonal forces. For a weak and timid spirit, nursed
in the soft lap of the good things of life, unexer-
cised in the cardinal virtues of patience and com
passion, and knowing nothing of the healthy an
tagonism that measures itself against opposing
forces, will have much to overcome and much to
build in that personality which has now to exert
itself. This is the crisis which quickly segregates
the different types. Once again let it be said, there
is no cause for discouragement in awakening to
the truth of things. The awakening must come.
W hy not let it come now and use the opportunity
it gives? The neophyte who is ready for it and can
bear the revelation of himself as he is, will not
falter when the Karma of the past projects itself
into the present in many mysterious shapes and
challenges his initiative and courage to deal with
it.
A word must be said about the type of neo
phyte who fails the great opportunity. He cer
tainly does exist and is well known. One some
times wonders how he came to venture upon a
£31]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
new path in life at all. The fact is, he is bound
hand and foot to his past. On no account must
a single strand of that sweet bondage to what he
knows and can do be snapped in the name of men'
tal freedom and spiritual orientation. No assur
ance or promise can endow this type with the eagle
instinct. I have known him to drop preliminary
occult study as if stung by a scorpion. The fund'
amental cause of this is—fear of the future. It
strangles the very life out of all advancement and
great work and makes a man a slave to the end of
his days. Others stand ready to help him, from
their knowledge and experience fully understand'
ing the problem that besets and hinders him, but
they can do nothing. They cannot drag a man
along the path; neither will they attempt to coerce
him. The law works here perhaps more rigorously
than anywhere else in life. The neophyte must
leave the home of the personality from free choice
if he is to traverse the kingdom of the soul. Until
he is ready to make the choice he is safer where he
is for this incarnation.
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
V V V
[ 3 2 ]
C h a p t e r III.
THE NEOPHYTE AN D SERVICE
"c/'jTT NE OF TH E reasons why the discipline
of the path has been termed a “hard
school,” is because the ordinary mo-
*^ *1 tives for action have to be reversed and
given more impersonal direction. The neophyte
has to think in terms of others as well as of
himself. He finds it difficult to accept the condi-
tion whole-heartedly of pledging himself to ser
vice as soon as he enters thoroughly upon self
development. This is not the case with the neo
phyte only; it is often so with those who have
sought advancement for many years on the path.
When it is suggested that they should throw their
influence into other lives, think wisely for them
and extend to them their knowledge, they fail to
see any connection between self-development and
interest in the development of others. I believe
this arises largely from the fact that, although they
know the Masters are spoken of as the servants of
[33]
men, they imagine the law of service does not
apply until they themselves are well advanced on
the path. They are scarcely to be blamed for this,
because many schools and systems of occult edu-
cation do not particularly stress the importance of
service, but concentrate almost exclusively upon
methods of self-development or self-importance,
with personal power as the sole objective. W ithin
certain limits this objective is quite possible. It is
also legitimate and free from objection if one is
thinking only in terms of the material plane. It is
possible to make some occult progress without any
special consideration of service to others; but only
within very narrow limits. The time comes in the
progress of a man of any commendable quality
when this kind of exclusive programme proves to
be a most unsatisfactory affair. Psychic develop
ment is quite compatible with the selfish attitude
towards life, and in some instances has been car
ried so far as to enter well within the confines of
black magic. The modern press has furnished many
instances of this in the publication of authenticated
cases; some even extending to the hellish practice
of compelling money and property from weak-
[34]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
minded persons through hypnotic influence. Soul
development is impossible on these terms. Study
well the two paths. They run very close to each
other up to a critical point, where they separate
widely for ever. Then it is seen that the true path
resolves itself into the narrow and flaming way of
service.
W hy must the neophyte learn to serve? Be'
cause the Master whom he aspires to know is per'
fected in sendee, and there can be no intimate as'
sociation with him in world work until the neo'
phyte has learned through long probation to like'
wise serve, and serve efficiently. Service is not
however necessarily of an occult character. W e
have a corroborative hint of this from the Master
when he says: “Nay, but what better cause for
reward, what better discipline, than the daily and
hourly performance of duty.” That is character'
istic of the teaching of the Master. He points the
neophyte back to first principles, to the place
where he now stands, and bids him be productive
in that place. That does not appear very inviting
to the neophyte. He looks for something im'
portant at the beginning, something different from
ran
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
the occupation of the average man, if only to have
himself remarked as a notable character.
How typical of this age is that attitude of mind,
in occultism as in other directions! It merits the
harsh criticism often dealt out to it. Our noble'
minded ancestors, of only a generation ago, were
not possessed with this provincial spirit to any the
like degree that is common around us today. And
to go further back, the Masters, who figure in my
mind as belonging to an old and classic humanity,
to whom the masks and mummeries and triumphs
of our day pass for nothing, stand as an inspiring
example of reality and durableness and self-efface-
ment which makes our little ambitions and desire
for effect unworthy of serious notice. Small
wonder is it that the Master has to wait, even
through incarnations, for us to awaken from this
sleep of the senses. Small wonder that the neo
phyte is compelled to open his own eyes just where
he is and shake off the hypnotic sleep of unreality
and false values that hang heavy about him. I be
lieve one's affection for the Master grows most as
he realizes more and more the infinite patience ex
ercised with the children of the path during this
[ « ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
awakening process. It can only be a patience
grounded upon supernal wisdom and perfect com
passion. Nothing less could exercise it.
Neophytes are sometimes of that turn of mind
that they lust for power over their fellowmen.
Their objective in this study is to win the reputa
tion of being notable characters. This attitude slays
the soul for real achievement. It is forbidden
ground, and the man who treads it is soon lost in
the swamp of illusion. He has a long way to go
before he can hope to lord it over the souls of men.
But when he can really do that on the path, the
sense of lordship loses its worldly attributes. He
then has a new definition for it—ascendancy over
others through having given himself in service for
their sakes. He will then be as careful in imposing
that supremacy abroad as in surrendering his own
personality to foreign influence. The neophyte can
lord it over others to his heart’s content on the
physical and mental planes if he has cultivated
force to that end; but not on the spiritual plane.
He requires a greater and purified force there; and
this he will gain only when the objectionable voice
of personal superiority has been made dumb
[37]
THE TECHNIQUE O F THE D I S C I P L E
through probation. So long as this speaks he is on
the mental plane, and his service will be vitiated
because of its initiation from that plane. It will
be service actuated largely by self'interest, and will
pass with others for what it is worth.
Service on the path means service because one
wants to and must serve. If that ideal carries with
it too strong a note of self-effacement, it is not
the ideal that is wrong, but the conception of the
neophyte of the work before him. There is one
aspect of life on the path which is exactly similar
to what obtains in the world: there is a price for
everything worth having. Strangely enough, many
believe this law has no place in occultism. But the
law is more exacting there than anywhere else.
The occult path is an individual one, and every
step thereon has to be cut by the neophyte’s own
hands and trodden by his own feet. This is not an
arbitrary law made by his teachers. It is an un
alterable condition in the sphere of the Masters—
that to receive he must give. It is a severe and
mortifying condition for the personality that loves
to grasp and live for itself; but because there is no
other way for one to gain even a preliminary
[38]
measure of true self-knowledge, to advance him
self only to the minor initiations of the path, ser
vice must be recognised by the neophyte as sy
nonymous with development. From the Master’s
point of view development is service, and service
means swift advancement in understanding of the
technique of the path.
The neophyte’s service is not necessarily occult
in character. One might say it is not necessarily
occult in character in the case of the advanced
man. Pause for a moment on that statement. St.
Paul's comment upon the diversities of gifts applies
here. The recognition in their fulness of his innate
gifts will determine the neophyte’s mission in life.
Years may pass in different spheres before those
gifts are recognized. And one of the most striking
results of service is the peculiar power of its dis
cipline in initiating him into the sphere of the soul
and unfolding faculties hitherto unperceived, or
but dimly recognized and partially expressed. The
process is in nature occult: the awakening of the
soul resulting from it may lead him to minister to
the sick, inspire him to some mechanical invention
of practical utility to the people, or take him into
f 39 3
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E DISCIPLE
church or city to assist youth or foster schemes of
child culture. This idea is strongly marked when
the neophyte is bidden to remember that the dis-
ciples of the Masters are just as likely to be found
engaged in political, social and economic fields, as
in spiritual and religious. There are perhaps no
examples so powerfully indicative of this as are
to be found in the history of the Rosicrucian fra-
ternity. Their influence can be traced throughout
the civilized world in literature, art and science, in
church and state, in mystical illumination and oc
cult achievements. That being so, the neophyte
should enter upon his training with an open mind
in the matter of what line of service his studies
will eventually disclose as fittest for him. As the
training goes forward one thing is certain: that
which he can best do will be brought into promh
nence and matured, and it will not be long before
he finds ways and means of applying his abilities
along lines satisfactory to himself and of value to
the world.
I fully sympathize with the neophyte who may
pause here as a shadow of disappointment settles
upon him on meeting with so emphatic an insist-
[40]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
ence upon service as the key to high development.
I know well that he enters upon his studies with
hopeful ambition for personal conquest; and the
idea of service savours too much of the religious
observance inculcated in youthful days. But he has
to remember that he is passing now within the
domain of an exact science, the technique of which
consists of inexorable laws of thought and prim
ciples of action which cannot be abrogated with
impunity. The act of service on the path releases
the power of the soul. Unfoldment is not con
tingent only upon the absorption of material
gained from the studies. The athelete is not made
by the most comprehensive study of anatomy and
reflection upon works of physical culture. He has
to translate these into the terms of muscular train
ing and scientific body building, combined with
manifold mental adjustments relative to the feats
he desires to accomplish. So with the neophyte.
The forces he seeks to know and manipulate are
resident within and existing around him. W hat he
needs is the key to enable him to tap these infinite
sources that await the call of the will to bring
them into active combination and use. Faith plays
£41 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
a far more active part in the neophyte’s unfold'
ment and use of power than he is inclined to be'
lieve. He may obtain many hints of this in times
of emergency and stress, if he is observant of his
deeper nature. The steady and continuous effort
to use himself in service in any way that circum'
stances suggest or afford the least opportunity,
will teach the neophyte far more than extended
reading in occultism. He has no idea of what he is
capable until he rises confidently in the fact of
human need and compels the response of the soul’s
innate power in meeting it. If he can force the
issue with himself and act with this confidence, the
soul aspect will be brought powerfully into prom'
inence without loss of time. Everything will de'
pend upon the type of mind the neophyte brings
to the task; but if he can summon that force of
will and clear the ground early in his novitiate for
strong and decisive effort, and make the necessary
adjustments in his life, perhaps at some personal
cost to himself, the future years will applaud his
courage and resolution and justify the past.
There is no room for the lukewarm neophyte
on the path, nor have the exigencies of life any
£42]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
room for him. On the path men of action are
needed. There are enough cults, societies and
circles in existence which will afford the lack'
adaisical ample hospitality to dream life away.
But the man we have in mind must leave these
things to those who need them, or use them him'
self as a diversion or relaxation from hard personal
effort to make himself a firstclass technician; then
he will be of some use in the world and others
will emulate his example.
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
V V V
[43 ]
C h a p t e r IV .
THE NEOPHYTE AN D INITIATIVE
HERE is one quality imperatively de-
manded in the neophyte who essays to
make good his position on the path. That
quality is initiative. It is that quality in
the character which, in itself, is almost a guaran'
tee of success in whatever direction it is judicious'
ly exercised. There is one neophyte who has it:
it is a part of his natural equipment, and he will
show it in everything he handles. There is another
who has it not: it is not a part of his natural
equipment, and he will have to labour assiduous'
ly for it. The first will quickly make the studies
his own and apply them in a personal and ingem
ious way. The other will find even the rudiments
of the science strange and revolutionary, and
every line and precept will have to be hammered
into the mind and ruminated upon again and again
before there is full acceptance and understanding.
But it should mean much to him that he is on the
[ 45 ]
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
path and started upon the conquest of difficulties
which cannot be encountered elsewhere and which
will ultimately have such momentous consequences
for him. But I pass on to consider the neophyte
with initiative.
A peculiar interest attaches to the neophyte
who displays marked initiative in his occult work.
He is not new to the path and is therefore a poten'
tial character which cannot be fully anticipated
and must be allowed a certain margin of freedom.
This does not mean that he is at liberty to over'
ride his teachers, or ignore the rules of discipline.
Nor do we expect this attitude in him, but the re'
verse. Nevertheless, the failing often observable
in this type of aspirant is an impatience for ad'
vanced work and a short cut to it. A little more
advancement in self'knowledge will rectify this.
It is as necessary for him to be scrupulously exact
in making sound the foundation for future work
as for the veriest tyro, although he may dispute
this point. But those who offer him their assist'
ance know, and ripe experience is not to be dis-
counted.
f 46 ]
In the schools of painting an implicit obedience
to the rules of the art is enjoined upon the young
student. Possessed, as he usually is, with a vivid
imagination and fired by the contemplation of the
works of the great masters, his mind runs far
ahead of his hand; the fluent execution of the per'
feet model inclines him to overlook the painstaking
novitiate during which the master in the making
compelled untutored nature to follow with slavish
exactness the ancient rules which his matured
work reveals to the seeing eye in every line. Here
is a hint for the neophyte. No matter what his
power of instant appreciation may be of the work
and service of the finished occultist, he must apply
himself humbly and with deep sincerity to the
rudiments of the science. No matter what his in
born initiative may be, it is not for him to criticise,
but to obey. A margin of freedom is permissible
to him, but not before a reasonable period of per
sonality culture, in the occult sense, and of strict
obedience to the rules of discipline has been passed.
This first cycle of basic preparation is of import
ance, if only to teach him patience and humility.
His first contemplation of the Masters and their
[47]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
easy ascendancy and manipulation of force, is
something of a revelation and not a little stagger'
ing to the ambitious mind; and consequently there
is a tendency to lose a sense of perspective and a
resolution to reach this level at a bound. There is
also sometimes a tendency to indulge a natural
slothfulness and neglect some of the stages of early
discipline. The labour required to attain exactness
is unacceptable, and the neophyte is opposed to
conquest by slow approaches to the goal. The
vivid imagination, so valuable in its place, is res'
ponsible for this mistaken attitude. It is imposed
upon by the vision of perfection and forgets the
tedious process of becoming that precedes it.
Those who lead have most faithfully followed.
Nothing is lost by bending the will to take the
preliminary stages of discipline with crucial at
tention. This may appear to leave little scope for
initiative; but even initiative is subject to the law
of growth. The failure to realize this is the reason
that students of occultism, with multifarious read'
ing to their credit, are unproductive in the way of
service. One can only teach and assist others by
knowing theoretically and practically every step
[ 48 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E DISCIPLE
of the way in his own living experience. I have
known many instances of both types of students.
The one has been encyclopaedic in occult knowl
edge, yet pessimistic and doubtful, with a pathetic
helplessness in the direction of throwing his in
fluence into other lives for unfoldment. The other
has demonstrated his painfully assimilated lesser
knowledge step by step and compelled recognition
by a well-directed application of it. That is the
beginning of real initiative, and the more advanced
stages will be taken by that student with a facility
and power in demonstration which the other
never knew.
Through obedience the neophyte develops and
accumulates force for original work. From a
solicitousness that he shall not fail in applying any
detail of discipline, definite qualifications are gain
ed. Perhaps the most important is that he learns
to trust himself. Above all things the Master re
quires that quality in a technician. The Master
will never trust the man who has not confidence
in himself. That self-trust fully established, the
work before him assumes a different aspect to the
neophyte. He is no longer only a copyist; he be-
[49]
gins to initiate. W ith a sure eye for progress, cul'
tured by a diligent survey of the studies at his
disposal, he will now have a well-filled back'
ground of the worthy examples of his teachers
upon which to reflect. He will appreciate more
truly the value of these examples through an urn
derstanding of the discipline which raised them
to eminence.
It is but a step further when, through a critical
examination of the master minds, he will uncon-
sciously express somewhat of their virtue and skill
in action in his own life. Still heedful, even to a
greater degree, of the accredited rules of discipline
which have brought him so far, he will come to
exercise a kind of authority over the rules them'
selves. He will use them with a freedom and ex'
tended application suitable to his own individual
need. Obeying the rules now unconsciously, he
will lose the sense of restraint imposed by them
and feel free to press on upon his own initiative.
He is a faithful neophyte still, but also an aspirant
who has passed successfully through the prelim'
inary cycle of development, aware of his weak
nesses, yet feeling his strength and able to serve.
[50]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
It must not be thought that this transition from
a careful and conscientious dependence upon the
rules of discipline to a conscious elevation above
and partial independence of them is to be easily
and swiftly made. The stage of progress I have
concisely depicted admits of amplification. A famil-
iarity with the rules of occult procedure is the
first period, and it necessarily comprises a thorough
understanding of the occult doctrine which it is
the object of the rules to demonstrate. It is to be
remarked that a deep and discursive reading in
occultism is not absolutely necessary for the neo
phyte. This, I do not hesitate to say, may exercise
a peculiarly hindering influence upon some types
of students. There is, for instance, the very prac-
tical type who quickly tires of doctrine, but has
a marked facility for putting every theory to the
test. It is not that he is ignorant of the value of
and the necessity for understanding thoroughly the
theoretical groundwork which must precede exper
imentation and application, but it is naturally diffi
cult for him to divorce action from study and find
satisfaction and repose in omniscient tirades on
the possibilities of man. He believes in the demon-
[51]
THE T E C H N I Q U E OF THE D I S C I P L E
stration of possibilities, instead of endless and
stupifying visualization of them. The principles
and practice of the technique grow apace in the
mind and soul of that kind of neophyte. Initiative
with him is a daily development. He is one who
approves himself in the eyes of his teachers, be'
cause he has that in him which is much sought
for by them, the ability and eagerness to work
himself into life and circumstances at every step
of the way. A hint will prove more prolific in him
of results than a library to the type lacking
initiative.
Another type, no less commendable than the
above, will have a fine aptitude for combining
extensive study with a versatile use of it. Dis-
cursive reading is a necessity to him. He feels
the need of ranging widely over a number of pre-
sentations of doctrine. He has a definite line of
application in view which the basic rules reveal,
and brings all his varied knowledge to bear posh
tively to that end. But this is contingent upon the
possession of a well-balanced mind, a power of
keen discrimination, and an ability to grasp intel
lectually many varieties of occult doctrine without
[ 5 2 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
being perplexed by the different angles of vision of
their authors, or weakening in the main line of
advance in a practical objective. In this matter the
neophyte will therefore wisely consult his peculiar
mental disposition and the guidance of his intui
tion. Whichever line he adopts, let him hold fast
to the central aim of applying the rules of disci
pline and experimentation continuously and ex-
actingly to the unfoldment of his personal powers
and the alert and energetic projection of these into
some field of labour to justify his presence on
the path.
Under this procedure he will enter upon the
second cycle of the novitiate. Through the stren
uous application of his present knowledge and per
sonal influence in his vocation and in service, his
interest in the science will bring within his pur
view the works and achievements of many Masters
of varying degrees of technique who have trodden
the path. His aim will be to gain a right perspec
tive of himself in relation to these Masters. Their
superiority and excellence will fire his imagination
to greater effort as the ideal man comes more and
more to possess it. Those perfections which he
t « ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
observes in each will gradually take shape in one
dominating idea of the Master life, and narrow
and one-sided conceptions will be displaced by a
full and rounded impression of the character he
emulates. The master minds of occultism have
their individual peculiarities and mental predilec-
tions and, as we have seen, in their statements of
doctrine and personal methods of demonstration,
there is a great deal of apparent contrariety which
has led to much useless controversy among those
of narrow outlook and limited sympathies. The
path is one; the master minds who have taken it
are many. Truth is one; but can we conceive the
truth of the great cosmos being capable of ex-
pression through one illumined soul? That is a
thought for the neophyte to ponder and allow to
influence his entire attitude of research. His ob'
jective is to become a representative of the Brother'
hood of Masters. He will find that the members
of it are exponents of a technique which is as
diverse in its tenor and application as the indi
vidual minds and personalities of the Masters
themselves. As I am writing primarily for the
Rosicrucian neophyte, we are thinking specifically
[54]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
of the Rosicrucian technique; but let him not, for
that reason, shut out the allied rays of the tech'
nique that shine down beneficently upon his path
from the one great centre of illumination. The path
is one; truth is one; the Masters are one in the
Cosmic in perception and illumination; yet each
with a perfected technique peculiarly adapted to
the mental, psychic, and spiritual constitutions of
the several authentic schools of discipline and
initiates who seek their aid for the purpose of
accomplishing their work. That is what I mean
by the elimination of a narrow, onesided concep'
tion of the truth of divine science and the com'
prehensive technique expressing through its per-
fected Masters, and the substitution of an expan'
sive and growing mind that aspires to take all
knowledge for its province and use it to the end
of a full and balanced development for the salvage
of human lives.
The third cycle of the novitiate is a culminating
one and should find the neophyte well along the
path with well-defined mental qualities indicating
that the groundwork of the technique has been
laid and is operative in his life. I say nothing
[ « ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
specifically here of his particular studies; those are
of his own choice and persuasion. I am concerned
with the technique of the path and have indicated
that phase of it which I consider of vital import'
ance in the accomplishment of practical works in
the world and which is preeminently needed today.
During the third cycle the neophyte has presum-
ably prosecuted a discriminating study of many
exponents of the technique. He will have observed
their individual peculiarities and their diverse ap'
plications of the technique in original departmental
work; and from these examples he will have
gathered to himself and combined into one com'
posite conception a compelling individual tech'
nique which allows his constitution full expression
in personal initiative. He will put himself to the
trial by a powerful endeavour to act from the alti'
tude of vision and achievement of those master
minds who have for so long been the object of
his study and emulation, until through a sympa'
thetic attunement their dignity and strength be
come his by participation and enable him to com'
mand increasing recognition from Cosmic sources
through fulfilling the law which is pledged to
[56]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
gratify the deepest aspirations of the dedicated
soul.
Some of my readers may think that I am de-
manding a measure of efficiency not to be expected
during the comparatively brief term of the novi
tiate. I can only say that I am constrained to this
view of the task because I have worked it out
steadfastly and unfailingly in my own case, and 1
impart my experience for their encouragement.
Moreover, I have always regarded the task with
the utmost seriousness and spared no pains to ful
fill in the spirit and the letter the austere demands
which confront every aspirant who essays the great
adventure. Therefore I am assuming in the neo
phyte all those basic qualities of character which,
when once he is launched upon the path, will urge
him to bring his whole life into line with Cosmic
purposes, undeterred by any personal weaknesses
or temporary failures, holding ever steadily in
mind that conception of masterhood which he has
built up in the interludes of study and contempla
tion, and compelling every power and faculty to
respond obediently to that grand conception,
f 57]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
C h a p t e r V .
TH E W ILL OF TH E NEOPHYTE
F THE neophyte complies with the rules
of discipline over the required period he
will come to recognise in himself the de'
velopment of distinct qualities in the per*
sonality. He has brought an inventive mind to his
work and sought new ways in which to apply it.
He has initiative; and at the back of initiative is
always found the developing will. The central
power to be and do drives him on to exploit him'
self; then we have the neophyte alive to his task
and already working on the side of evolution. His
service has grown purposeful and effective, and
the reactions upon himself from near and far are
carrying his unfoldment steadily forward.
The responsible factor in this cycle of advance'
ment has been the awakening will. This is the key
to all his future progress. Every faculty is related
to it; self'expression upon every plane revolves
around it. Observe how pregnantly the will is
[59}
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
referred to in the writings of the Masters. From
one aspect the life of the Master may be regarded
as organised will. From whatever aspect of his
work we regard the Master, we cannot ignore
this finely-tempered Cosmic attribute expressing
with mathematical precision the resourceful tech'
nique to which we aspire. Wisdom, compassion,
knowledge—they would lose their name without
that irresistible, directive force which gives them
form and potency. The neophyte may be assured
that, in the last analysis, it is according to his will
that he is known and valued. His development is
a spiral ascension in will consciousness.
In early years I was much impressed by the
peculiar phenomenon of genius. I quickly set
apart the favoured few who possessed it from the
brilliant and clever who did not. I paid deep
homage to these characters, although I did not
understand the source and meaning of the precious
gifts they displayed. I believed simply in inspira'
tion and knew they were the recipients of it.
Now, I regard genius as a phase of discipleship,
in most cases, of unconscious discipleship, and
rooted in the occult world of force. And I suggest
[60]
TH E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
that if the neophyte wishes for some idea of the
technician’s will in action, he should study the
world’s great characters, in whatever sphere they
have moved. I am not concerned with their vir'
tues, or vices, or eccentricities. Let him study the
awakened man in action and driving his influence
across the world; because when he becomes a
disciple, he will have to demonstrate just that
quality of the concentrated will, forced into ave-
nues of unique activity, which compels recognition
by virtue of its inspirational content and value
in evolution. Thus, in an indirect way and through
examples of imperfect because unconscious disciple'
ship, he will realise vividly what he may expect to
find coming to fruition in the technician on the
path. Through the contemplation of these char'
acters he will gradually acquire the flavour and
ultimately touch the essence of that divine inspira'
tion which is the secret of their ascendency. His
contemplation will be of the vital, energising force
in genius which has that appealing quality in it
of a new creation, untiring, initiating, and inspir'
ing others to reach up to it and surpass themselves
in the effort.
[ 6 1 ]
True, there are diversities of genius, and not
all manifest the energising and masterful quality
of action. But genius is always new, always orig'
inal, and touches with apparent ease some level
of achievement and expresses almost unconsciously
that kind of faculty which is the despair of the
merely clever and assiduous. How often it baffles
and depresses the ambitious! That is an incident
of its nature, not its aim. Its mission is to carry
the world on and lead humanity up from the
sordid and commonplace to the beautiful and noble
in nature and man. It leaves in the hearts of men
a disquieting dissatisfaction and pathetic longing
for that which in their best moments they claim
as their own but cannot reach.
Observing the effect of the magnetism of the
will of genius impressing itself irresistibly and im
differently upon the learned and illiterate alike,
it is not difficult to understand and give complete
assent to those forceful words of the Master: “He
who gets knowledge by certain intuition, lays
hands upon its various forms with supreme ra-
pidity, by fierce effort of will.” Let us revolve
that statement a little in its application to the
[62]
T H E T ECH N IQ U E OF T H E DISCIPLE
genius, apart from any particular occult signifi
cance, since it is so truly representative of him;
for in considering this worldly phenomenon of the
will in commanding and original action, the im
pression I seek to convey to the neophyte will be
enhanced. The genius by certain intuition seizes
upon the hidden secrets of mind and nature and
by fierce effort of will drags them forth to the
light of day, giving them uncommon application
and enriching some department of life in his sing
ular handling of them. There is a divine extra
vagance in the way he does this, an autocratic
procedure which fools criticize and wise men re
joice at. For the thing is good and ravishes the
appreciative eye and heart. Indeed, there is noth
ing that so truly apprizes us of the presence of
divinity in human life. W e may recall what was
said by a scholar of his reading of Homer; that his
whole form appeared to himself to be enlarged
and all nature which surrounded him diminish to
atoms. Such is the effect upon men of a divine
faculty informing a perfected and responsive per
sonality resigning itself with perfect abandon to
the overshadowing afflatus.
[63]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
So is it with the disciple who stands near to the
Master. He may not possess the fiery quality of
notable achievement. He may walk in humble
paths and remain unknown. His will may not have
that direction which attracts public attention; but
awakened it must be and demonstrating actively
in its sphere. To call a man of weak will a disciple
is a misnomer. If this is questioned, why do the
Masters lay such emphasis upon the highest de-
velopment of the will? It is the indispensable pivot
of the structure of technical training they incul'
cate. And remembering how important is the will
in the achievement of anything of value in the
world, the necessity is at once seen for its superior
education when a man begins to work upon him'
self in an interior way. The will must be brought
to that tension and glow at the heart of life which
nothing on any plane can damp or hinder.
I said that compliance with the prescribed rules
of discipline will bring to the neophyte a sense of
awareness of a forward tendency throughout the
personal economy. He has acquired the habit of
self'direction, of imposing the will upon the activi'
ties of his vehicles. He will not make the mistake
1 6 4 ]
T H E T ECH N IQ U E OF T H E DISCIPLE
of thinking he thus creates will, but that through
strong intention in study and meditation he grad'
ually organises his faculties, coordinates his ac
tivities, and so affords the omnipresent, Cosmic
force resident in the soul an opportunity of ex
pression. It is the organisation of the outer per
sonification which affords an avenue of release of
the divinity within, the energising, creative force
underlying all manifestation and which, the more
powerfully and purely we see it informing a per
sonality, the more we feel that here is great will
in calm possession and ensuring unobstructed ex
pression. And looking beyond genius to the per
fect example of the Master using his many-sided
technique with freedom and exactitude, the effect
upon the neophyte will be one of profound ven
eration and the desire to take with all possible and
legitimate speed the stages of discipleship.
He will not overlook the need of perspective in
this self-dedication and resolve. The genius, we
know, disdains to look abroad for help from
others. He is powerfully developed, usually over
developed, from the occult point of view, in one
specific area of consciousness and its use. Su-
[6?]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
premacy in his chosen field is sufficient compen
sation for him for ignorance, eccentricity, or want
of balance in other departments of his constitution.
The world thinks so, too. But the neophyte can
not afford to think so. He will quickly realise this
if he studies both intellectually and intuitionally
the fine and gentle poise, the illumined and gra
cious speech, and the exquisite application of spir
itual technique of the Master in human evolution.
As with the reader of Homer, he will find his
entire nature enlarged by the contemplation, but
nature around him will not be diminished to
atoms; it will acquire a new significance in his eyes
of beauty, rhythm and law, and he will strive un
ceasingly to express these attributes in his own
personal life.
Is it necessary to add that this fine discrimina
tion and balanced conception of the neophyte is
contingent upon his having made the third period
of the novitiate a full and productive one? This
period of study and of coordinating his knowledge
must be characterised by all the ardour and en
thusiasm of the true artist. A strong incentive of
the will does not emerge from a mere desire for it.
[66]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
Genius is indefatigable in ranging over the world
of knowledge pertaining to its personal exercise.
It has that reach of mind which draws into its
sphere everything good and useful accomplished
by its predecessors. From the queerest and most
hidden sources it brings to its hands the secret
signatures of power and wisdom with which to
measure its technique against the greatest achieve'
ments of men. It collects material with an avidity
known only to those possessed of a boundless
passion towards a fixed aim. It is not a copyist;
it scorns imitations. It does not collect for the
purpose of imitation. It discerns in its material
an unique possibility, and evolves a combination of
sterling value consistent with and only possible to
its individual technical foresight. W hat is it that
works this miracle of a new creation that some'
times suddenly surpass all the plodding labour of
generations of men? It is the vision of an aroused
soul and the commanding will, polarized stead'
fastly to its aim, congregating with dynamic in'
tensity all the ingredients necessary to the objec'
tivation of that vision.
[67}
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
Let the neophyte not be deterred by the magni'
tude of the ideal held before him. I give it this
shape with deep intent to bring him to that en'
larged and masterful view of his calling, whereby
the powers of the soul will be incited to express
themselves and ensure the needed Cosmic contacts
essential in developing his technique. He builds
upon the finished works of his predecessors on the
path. During the third period of novitiate he
makes these works his own through sympathetic
understanding, not the sympathy of fact but of
spiritual atmosphere. He rises imperceptibly into
the thought sphere of these regal minds, if so be
nature has qualified him for this classic apprecia-
tion; his life becomes saturated with the genius
of the path, permeating him with will impulses
divine and irresistible in character, and tutoring
him to that conception of beauty and simplicity
which is ever the appanage of genius and super'
eminent in the disciple of the Master.
V V V
[ 6 8 ]
C h a p t e r V I.
THE DEM ANDS OF DISCIPLESHIP— 1
N BRIEF compass the stages of novitiate
have been outlined. In the majority of
cases it is a long and exacting period of
study and preparation during which the
fundamentals of the technique have to be thor-
oughly understood by the neophyte and find prac'
tical expression in his daily life. When this ob
jective has been reached he will have the assurance
within himself, through signs clear and unmistak
able in character, that he has entered upon the
stage of discipleship. He will have brought himself
to that point of development where the Master
will be interested in his value as a factor in evolu
tion, and the Master will, unperceived and un
known perhaps to the disciple, afford him means
of knowledge and progress, through recognized
teachers on the objective plane, whereby he may
qualify for accepted pupilage in time under that
Master.
[ 6 9 ]
Many disciples there are in the various schools
of occultism who are engaged in this task of qual-
ification for personal acceptance; but compara-
tively few have undeniable proof of such accept'
ance. W hy is this—especially in view of the fact
that thousands of earnest aspirants of every con-
ceivable type of occult persuasion, some of large
and commendable mentality and equipment, are
on the path? It is because they lack certain im-
mensely important elements of technical skill in
the light of the Master’s judgment and need for
specialized work. Some who have read “The Tech
nique of the Master” have said that the book at
once inspired and discouraged because, whilst their
deepest intuition responded to its teaching which
probed to the heart of their individual problems
and gave them new strength for advancement,
there was a note of austerity in the requirements
demanded by the Masters in those who were ad
mitted to their confidence. I do not think this can
be denied. But let us look at the matter from the
everyday point of view; since if we are to have a
sound and sober conception of ourselves as occult
ists, we must constantly seek for analogies among
H o]
THE T E C H H I Z I U E O F THE D I S C I P L E
the forces and circumstances of the outer world to
rightly interpret the laws and conditions of the
world of the soul. I consider it desirable that
the neophyte should be a man before he is an
occultist. I will explain what I mean. The hall'
mark of men of light and learning, in whatever
sphere of achievement, is perfected faculty and
faultless execution within the limits of that sphere.
I do not speak merely of men of genius whose
works always shine with this twofold lustre, but
of men of lesser magnitude; men of laborious, pa'
tient and scrutinizing ability, self'denying to the
last degree in the interest of their chosen aim,
severe and implacable critics of themselves and
their work, imperturbable in the face of opposition
and criticism from circumstances and men. W hat'
ever amiable qualities they manifest to others,
whatever their kindness and consideration and
adaptability to their fellowmen, to themselves they
are hard and inflexible taskmasters. I am not
thinking of automatons, but of men who give
themselves heart and soul to great purpose and
conform their lives to serve and follow that pur'
pose. I do not speak beyond what the facts of
[ 7 1 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
such lives daily reveal, if one takes the trouble
to read their written and unwritten biographies.
The pioneer work of the world rests upon the
shoulders of such men. This being so, what are
we to expect that the Masters, who are perfected
men in the highest and noblest sense, require of
their disciples who offer themselves and aspire to
share in the most momentous task possible to man,
the culture and utilization of occult forces in the
evolution of souls? There is not the slightest doubt
that the demands of the Masters in the selection
and use of a disciple are based upon preparation
and personal demonstration in accordance with
occult laws, which are entirely outside the cate'
gories of culture and experimentation inculcated
and applied in any of the schools of ordinary
knowledge. The neophyte may assure himself of
this fact from personal observation of exponents
of the technique. He will find that these tech'
nicians and their methods of execution defy all
ordinary classification, simply because the under-
lying laws and principles have their source in a
sphere beyond the circumscribed bounds of or-
dinary knowledge and usage.
[72]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
This is why it has been said that the rules of
occultism have significance for the disciple only,
for those who take knowledge in the true and
mystical sense; that to none but those who are
disciples are they of any use or interest. The pith
of that statement is, that until the student has
thoroughly prepared himself during the period of
discipline as a neophyte, the said rules will not
convey to him their intended significance. He will
read them as a fact of science, instead of luminous
aphorisms epitomising a body of intimate spiritual
experience. So many students read in the former
sense and ask others to give them what can only
be lived. No one can give them the power to
read in the occult sense. Depth and intensity of
living alone give it. The neophyte who shrinks
from the profoundly meaningful words, depth and
intensity, had better stand back for a while. The
path of discipleship will lead him into deep waters.
Fear has held many a man back at the first glimpse
of these waters. Perhaps this is well. It is not
easy to pass on alone. It is wise to try out one’s
nerve sufficiently before stepping off the ground
he knows well. Once beyond the frontiers there
f 7 3 )
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
is no going back. In passing he will lose his hold
of many things he has grasped firmly through life.
The issue for him now is, whether he can trust the
soul to find a new path that will lead him to
something infinitely more enduring to replace what
he will lose.
The path of the neophyte merges almost insen
sibly into that of the disciple. Yet they are sharply
distinguished in discipline and purpose. There is
gentle and persuasive encouragement for the neo
phyte. He is led by an easy approach from the
way of the world to think in terms of the soul.
It is an experiment in higher culture, and he will
succeed with it according to capacity and guid
ance. But the path of the disciple is marked by a
note of severity. He has chosen a vocation for
life, and what eminence he will reach in it lies
chiefly with himself. Hence the concise declara
tion of the scripture, that the rules pertaining to
this life are of use to none but those who choose
this vocation with a clear understanding of the
nature of their choice and the demands it will
make upon them.
[74]
First, a word as to the more stringent conditions
which obtain on this path. It is the high school
which the man enters with certain definite acquire'
ments of his novitiate. He has a good deal of self'
knowledge and knows how to use the mind with
concentrated effect in study and meditation. Now
he has to compel that mind to initiate experience
in a deeper sense and upon an everwidening scale.
There is only one thing which will ensure this:
decisive action within the personality and without.
I have known students who, during their novitiate,
rejoiced exceedingly because they had found a new
peace and tranquillity through a preliminary de*
tachment from many worldly interests; and their
chief aim as they passed on to higher work was
to increase this quiescence of the personality which
they felt to be so desirable. They had yet to learn
that undisturbed tranquillity is not for the disciple.
If the disciple wants that above all things he will
do well to stay where he is until he tires of it.
He certainly will tire of it. I have also known
those who tarried so long in this first heaven of
quietude that it became a hell of unrest to them,
and they entreated to be in action. Perhaps that
[7t ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
is a sure sign that they are ready for discipleship.
Once again, I have known students who no doubt
felt much elevation because they had accomplished
so arduous a task as a short period of novitiate,
and their quiescence and profound calm have been
disconcerting. They had attained a condition of
peace and repose through mental concentration
and there they remained, self'hypnotised, waiting
the contact of a live soul to awaken them.
This is not the mark of a disciple. There are
countless business men in the city who have a
repose far deeper than this, and to some purpose.
The trouble with these students is, that they have
read the scripture literally instead of spiritually
and have made an heroic attempt to kill out am'
bition and cease from sensation before they had
measured themselves against the force of the one
or sounded the depths of the other. Their quies'
cence and peace arose from absence of experience
instead of from the knowledge and use of it. The
crime of slaying urgent ambition and denying the
insistent desire for sensation, the two most natural
forces in a powerful organisation, means one thing
— the impoverishment, not the completion, of per'
{76]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E TECHNIQUE O F T H E D I S C I P L E
sonality. It is an attempt, through perfect mis-
understanding, to do first that which remains for
conquest almost last, or at least a long way ahead
on the path of discipleship. I fear no criticism I
may incur on this theme. There are too many con
crete instances of the truth of it in living, breath
ing students who are the victims of wrong teaching
or narrow self-instruction in the canons of oc
cultism relating to it. If they could realize the
kind of force and faculty dominant ambition and
vivid response to sensation throughout the worlds
of form would breed and develop in them, they
would willingly allow the greater task to await
its proper time.
The case is somewhat different with the mature
student in whose life ambition has played a great
part and response to sensation has been versatile.
The distinction is vital and gives point to the
above comments, perhaps alone justifies them. Two
instances may be cited in explanation. A young
student of many promising talents proceeds to the
discipline of the path. It is not long before he
encounters teaching enjoining the negative doc
trine of killing out; this, with the example of ad-
[77]
vanced students devoted entirely to the work of
the path, inclines him to question the legitimate
fostering of the very faculties which alone will
make him a full man, capable of understanding and
interpreting the experience of others when he
reaches more critical stages of the path. These
emphatic teachings and personal examples psy'
chologize the young soul, and before the most
precious plants in his personal life have begun to
live, he embraces the pernicious doctrine that they
are but weeds which, if allowed to flourish, will
stifle the very soul within him. Does the aspirant
think that those gifts which he has cultivated with
such labour in the far past, whose content forms
the substratum of his mental life, the vibration of
which pulsates silently in every vehicle, expectant
of its appropriate Karmic contact—does he think
that this life-blood will willingly renounce its
force and passion and be slain at the threshold of
occult study and discipline by a mere word? If he
adopts a policy of wilful repression, let him gauge
the psychological effect of this before he goes
further, and the penalty that awaits him. If he
still doubts, let him stifle that wherein resides the
f 7 8 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
basic strength of his character and makes him a
man, and press on to discipleship. Then he may
expect one of two results, negative or positive,
contingent upon the type of man he is. He will
either take his place among those who are nothing
more than disciples in name, simply because they
are engaged upon the academical instruction of
discipleship, but in occult action and service they
are but negative in the measurement of their
values; or, in marked contrast with this, the hidden
fire in him, not dead but sleeping, will in good
time assert itself with startling intensity, overturn
all the bibles and occult maxims in creation, and
carry him back to primal sources and the voice of
God and nature within him, much to the conster'
nation of himself and his fellows. That is the
positive type.
I write in the name of the natural man; for it is
infinitely preferable to be a natural man swayed
by high ambition and responding to the sensation
of the whole living creation, than a puny, make-
believe occultist, the soul in bondage to occult
creed and dogma, lacking virility and inspiration,
and of less value to his fellowmen than an average
t 7 9 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
THE T E C H N I Q U E OF TH E D I S C I P L E
human being. The neophyte might reflect that the
time will come when he will have to encounter
strong individuals of force and character, known
of men and valued by them for the extensive ex-
perience they have acquired through great am'
bition and emotional response, and for whom the
hour has arrived for them to take knowledge of
the path. How will he meet these men, having
nothing of their power and passion in him? How
can he hope to influence or lead them? They will
have far more to teach him than he can hope to
teach them. Deep calls to deep all through life.
The disciple must have depth. He must be able to
pass to any depth in others, without being sub
merged there. He must prepare himself for that
by hard and prolonged struggle on the mental and
emotional planes and a record in his soul of the
most searching probation through contact and re
sponse in the utilization of self.
The second instance applies, in my judgment,
almost exclusively to the man who has taken
knowledge and is entering upon discipleship in the
fullest sense. Here we encounter men who are
highly mental and emotional. Their vehicles are
[80]
full andvibrant. Ambition hasdoneitsgreat work
and still has vast strength and direction in them.
In themits flam
e can be sensed as having all the
brillianceofgenius. And when tothisisaddedthe
new accession of force resulting from occult dis-
cipline, a condition of tension, through theoppos-
ingfactors of soul and personality, evolves out of
all proportion to the unexercised ambition of the
ordinaryindividual. The soul isrecognized; itsfire
isfelt; andthedivinecalldescendsuponthemental
plane and challenges the fierce fire of supremacy
there. But observe in this case the marked con-
trast with the former one. Here, ambition and
response have carried the man to the heights of
mental achievement in the past. He is no weak
ling endeavouring to kill out, paradoxically, what
does not exist, denyingresponse to that which he
has never felt. His supreme task is to transmute
that which is mature, splendid and enthrallingon
theplaneof mind, intothe greater fireof thesoul
that can no longer wait for complete union. All
here is power, force, ripe faculty, the limits of
which havebeen reached andmust nowsurrender
its form to spiritual illumination.
[81 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
In portrayingbriefly the twotypes of aspirants
essaying the definite stage of discipleship, I think
we arrive at the root of thevexed question of the
acceptance by the Master for intimate personal
work of the fewinstead of the many. It explains
the rigourousness of the demands of the Masters
pertaining to acceptance. If the material offered
has not reached maturity and strength, has not
versatility and responsivensss and fullness of ex
perienceandunderstandingupontheseveralplanes
of life; if the incipient elements of the technique
are not present as a result of the systematic culti
vation of everyaspect of theconstitution, through
secret vigil and worldly warfare and the ceaseless
wrestling of flesh and blood and Cosmic emotion
intheworldof form, ofopen-eyedencounter with
high and low and the steady ascension of the
whole lifeinwardly tothe planeof thesoul—that
does not signify defeat, is not a cause for dis
couragement, provides no basis for honest criti
cism. It means that all these factors must be
present in the subtle apparatus of the inner man
before a Master can avail himself of its use; and
the aspirant himself will be the first to realize and
[82]
TH E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
9
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
acknowledge this when the times comesto accept
the responsibility and accomplish the work which
falls to the lot of the tried and accepted disciple.
C h a p t e r V II.
THE DEMANDS OF DISCIPLESHIP—2
SAID that a man entering upon disciple-
ship has to address his mind, with such
forceandskillashisnovitiatehasequipped
him
, to the deepening and extension of
experience, and that this can be done only by
decisiveactionwithinthepersonalityandwithout.
This will carry him rapidly beyond the surface
aspect of life. He will not have to deliberately
force thisnew angle of vision; it will transpire all
too effectuallyif heisintent upon the workofhis
vocation and with a determination to attain his
goal. There isperhapsonethingmorecertain than
anything else which will initiate this cycle of ex
periencefor him
, andthat istheintensifiedthought
of the life of the Master. Just so soon as his idea
of the Master, as the goal of his aspiration and
effort, becomes a living, warm reality in con
sciousness, magnetically drawing him upwards,
then will eventuate crises in his personal experi-
[ s n
encewhichwill either bringhimtoafirmstanding
for further advance, or throwhimback upon the
worldtogainincommonwaysoflifethenecessary
strength for it. I mean, that the man with an
ampleand well organised mental background, will
be the one ready for advance and take it with
resolution and courage. If theneophytehastaken
the hint and narrowly observes genius and its ac
tion, he should not find it difficult to extend his
conception and focus veneration and affection
upon the super-genius, the Master. Imagination
andintuitionmust bethemeanstothisconception,
for the obvious reason that he cannot see the
Master face to face and witness his action in the
world of m
en. But that isoneof the testsfor the
intuition; he has to walk and live according to
the magnitude of the conception he holds of the
Master in consciousness; and how long that will
have tosuffice for himno oneknows. But hehas
the assurance that there will come to exist be
tween the vivid concept he holds and the Master
himself a bond of affinity and, in tim
e, of subtle
communication, all themorewonderfulandpotent
because physical barriers are done away.
f86]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
Thereisthereforea reneweddedication of him
.'
self to the Master by the entrant upon disciple'
ship, the result of which is that he passes within
a circle which leaves ordinary humanity outside.
There is no room for personal inflation in this
fact. It does not imply superiority, but redirec'
tionoflifeandpurpose. M
oreover, it issofraught
with doubts and misgivings that onlythe strength
and ability derived from a serious novitiate will
enable him to proceed. The personal history of
aspirants places this beyond question. It is not a
sombre theme, but a serious one; and that which
has been written upon it shows conclusively that
discipleship means keener living fromevery point
of view, a new assessment of pleasure and pain,
losses and gains in friendship, upheavals, silent or
otherwise, in environment; in a word, an entire
change of front.
One of the earliest books I remember to have
read on occultism, put thispointed question: Can
you do without human sympathy? For a student
on the threshold of life and the path that may
sound ominous and forbidding. But the writer of
it had trodden thepath; thestudent hadnot. Not
[87]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
literally has one to do without human sympathy
onthepathof discipleship, but it istruethat many
sympathieshevalues andwhich havemeant much
to him
, will be eliminated as he passes on within
theinner circle. The position, fromastrictlytech"
nical point of view, is this: the simple process of
daily concentration for mental control, the more
interior process of alignment of personality and
soul, gradually andimperceptibly weakensthedis
ciple’sinterest in many hithertostrongly objective
activities which have used or dissipated mental
energy, have served their purpose and must be
regarded as hindrances to progress. He will have
to face with open eyes the fact that a changed
attitude is creating breaches in his environment.
This is often a great surprise. His progress in
the science may be silent and hidden. He may
have a fine tact which enables him to withhold
views that he knows would jar and create opposi
tion in othersassociated with him
. Hemaythink,
wanting experience, that the presence of deeper
knowledge within, jealously guarded, not selfishly
but foreseeing that its utterance would make his
path more difficult, that the consciousness of in-
[88]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
creasing force playing within the personality, can
proceed unknown and unmolested from without
solong as reticence holds the precincts. He may
think so, but to little purpose. A disciple cannot
hide his light, strive as he may. Discipleship is a
conditionwhichwill utter itselfthough not aword
be spoken; and it is that silent and searching
vibration which stimulates for good or ill those
among whom he moves. Questioning and cross"
questioning, unexpected antagonism from those
with whom he has long lived in the bonds of
affection andfriendship, keencriticismaimedwith
direct intent to unsettle the growing assurance in
a larger life and break down the secret strength
and serenity which the world cannot understand
and consequently hates—what disciple has not
faced the insidious attacks of friend and enemy
alike when once hehas declared with the voice of
thesoul hiseternal allegiancetotheMaster?Well
might it be asked whether he can do without hu'
man sympathy! He will sometimes so crave for
the right kind of sympathy that nothing but the
consciousness that he is qualifying for a definite
missioninlifewill sustainhim. Therewill besom
e
{89]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
near to himwhowould go with himto the bitter
end if they could—but they cannot. He, too,
would take themwith him—but he cannot. He
will feel the gulf of separation between, widening
as surely as he lives onward, until hisvoice is no
longer heard by those on the other side. It is a
painful experience, but of incalculable value. He
is to minister to those who stand inert, stricken
with the grief of loss in one form or another, all
alongtheway. He must understand that loss, not
theoretically but actually; he must answer to it
with m
ind and heart and have thepower to speak
the word and do the thing that shall change the
very character of it in the eyes and heart of the
afflicted one.
That is one of the least of things the disciple
must be capable of. The force that rises within
himas the result of the conscious upward breath'
ing of the soul must flow from him as naturally
and fervently as the breath that pulsates to his
heart to do it and find avenues of expression
created only by his own initiative. That is an
inward experienceof discipleshipand symbolizesa
techniqueofaction. Readingmaybeapreliminary
[90]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
to it, far back in the past; but this I speak of
transcends the written word; nay, the disciple in
action is alien to books. The soul in its right
mood, aligned with the Master, forgets books and
teachers and believes in its own comment and ex'
pression. It exults in projecting its fire into a
neophyteandraisinghiminhisown strength. He
actsunquestioninglyunder theirresistibleemphasis
of his whole constitution. It is the genius of the
spirit which is perfect vision.
Thedisciplemust havethispower inotherlives.
He must have a congeries of faculties, a peculiar
knowledge, or adistinctiveforce, whichlesser m
en
need and will gratefully receive from him
. This
bringsustothecentral thought ofour theme: that
the occultist should stand out from the rank and
file of m
en and be good for something. Academic
occultists have been prolific for half a century;
whereastheoccult practitioner issocomparatively
rarethat heisregardedbythosewhohaveto deal
withhimaseither afanaticor aphenomenon, and
amongoccultists themselves he often passes as an
innovator or a revolutionary. Yet sensationalism
is totally foreign to the man. That is the mark of
[ 9 1 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
a small mind and never graces a disciple. There is
nothing more beautiful, or so transcendent in na'
ture, than the holy ghost inspiring a man and
takinghimheknowsnot whither. That iswhyhe
doesnot wait upon or regard theopinionsof men,
but speaks with the abandon of the Son of Man.
Ifhisdevelopment proceedsaccordingtotradition,
that is, in accordance with a discipline, searching
and arduous, and is able duringsome cycle of life
to assert himself wholly with understanding and
power, influence in other liveswill be a concom
i-
tant of that. Any wilful attempt to force himself
tosuch an issueis useless. It isa divineobsession
that transpires unbidden after certain frontiers
have been passed; he knows not when or how
until he has it. It is organised faculty and force,
sure of itself, certain in its direction, largely un'
conscious of its own influence, which is only real'
izedin the reactions, often very unexpected, from
near and far.
What is the nature of these reactions? Those
from the disciple's immediate environment have
been hinted at, and I think they are usually more
troublesome than assistant, because they arise
[92]
T H E TECHNIQUE OF THE D I S C I P L E
TH E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
chiefly from criticism based upon misunderstand
ing from those who resent anything of the nature
of a new departure in life, or anything that augers
special or secret knowledge and influence. That is
why experience of a sound and general character
is essential, a fine and ready tact, to traverse the
steady waters, a profound knowledge of human
nature, its depth and possibilities, to swiftly use
it against itself, and pass on undaunted though
wounded. The disciple is a battle-scarred warrior.
He is perpetually on the offensive, an attitude
that commonly makes for trouble anywhere in life;
but since he has entered upon an advance into
unknown territory and has to hold every vantage
point gained in the face of any odds, all the ele
ments of the true fighting spirit of the hard warrior
must be strongly in evidence. It may be said that
there are many types and not all have this quality
of aggressive advancement. I grant it; but I write
from my own experience. That alone avails for me,
not the experience of others. Let the disciple try
out his own measure of force and see what experi
ence will teach him. He may prefer to act on the
defensive only and thus save his own face and
[93 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E DISCIPLE
reputation; if so, I really do not see how he will
ever know the force of the Masters on those terms.
He may expect reactions from afar if he is
declaring himself in some definite way in service.
The work of a disciple along whatever line he may
act, should have that peculiar quality of strength
and impressiveness and usefulness which compels
recognition. It should have a value which creates
a demand for it. The resulting reactions therefore
will usually be of a favourable character. They
will come from those sources where his work
meets with proper appreciation because it is rightly
judged and assessed. That is some compensation
indeed for the inimical reactions which come upon
him near at hand. I do believe that the disciple
who works through to this point will realize within
himself, emanating from his own soul, or group,
a quickening of life and consciousness which will
gradually give him the ascendancy over all the
pain and distress which the swift outworking of
his Karma is bound to bring. If I dwell on a note
of struggle with forces of the personality hard to
be overcome, it is only because it is true in the
disciple’s experience. Many times I have found
[94]
that the written word of this experience has an'
swered to the letter the secret experience of the
solitary aspirant’s soul. Life had either done its
best to strip them of everything it gave them, ex'
cept a living heart, or placed beyond their reach
the things they were royally bom for. Yet they
were disciples, potential masters of the technique
of form, noble and patient in defeat and depriva'
tion. It was only their discipleship that held them
upright.
Just so; but what is the inestimable result of
these rapidly increasing reactions in the personal
life? Nothing less than a steady graduation in the
technique of the path. There is one truth which,
I think, may be taken for granted. The multiform
experience which will accrue to the disciple from
these reactions now taking place upon every plane
of life, will have a special significance for him,
since they have been initiated by an intenser living
incident to his treading the path. That which be'
falls him now will be reflectively related to his
status of discipleship. No longer is life a mean-
ingless jumble of haphazard events which carry
him hither and thither with no determinative sig'
[95]
T H E T E C H H I g y E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
nature upon them. It is a ritual of the soul in
which the tones of Karma are seeking their ap
propriate setting, to which the personality must
attentively listen and bring its own activities into
worshipful response. Many of these tones will not
be understood. Some will bring doubt and hesi
tation because they are new to the sensitive ear;
some will challenge, others will soothe, yet all are
to be related to the basic harmony of the individual
self, self-revealing and sympathetically revealing
the lives of his fellowmen. This will be so because
all experience is to be viewed now from a higher
level of vision and cannot be permitted to pass by
with indifference uncoordinated.
Commenting upon the valuation of experience
peculiar to discipleship, a critic once wrote: “It is
immaterial to our higher selves whether or not one
is so many millions of years ahead of another, or
merely thirty years. Nor can one assume to be in
advance of the other merely because he has under
gone experiences which to him are profound. No
minority of individuals can constitute themselves
authorities in experience.” When an occult student
can seriously write that, one can only say that
[96]
he has a right to his opinion but it is not the
opinion of a Rosicrucian. There are obviously de-
grees of hearing and understanding occult truth.
Some of us hear very partially and understand
superficially. And the only hope for this critic of
the valuation of experience is, that he gives a few
more years to careful hearing of the truth in order
to attain the experience of understanding it. One
only need ask, if there were not a minority of uv
dividuals who constitute themselves authorities in
occult experience, none other than the venerable
Brotherhood of Masters, the inspiration and guide
of every true occult student throughout the world
and the hope of struggling humanity, why waste
our time on a forlorn quest? The veriest tyro must
realize that the Masters, whose profound experi
ence in the laws and technique of occultism is
the most arresting fact in human existence, con'
stitute precisely such a minority of individuals
whose authoritative knowledge and wisdom we
can no more reasonably discount than the common
experience which enables this critic to earn his
daily bread. Moreover, there is a lesser minority
of individuals well known throughout the world
[97]
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
as disciples of these Masters, who are undoubtedly
authorities in the experience of discipleship and
who are competent to speak from the knowledge
gained from personal discipline under those Mas'
ters, whether a student is prepared to accept their
word or not.
It is a curious trait in human nature that a
student will often accept the truth of experience
of one authority and will deny and reject the
same experience, presented in a different form,
when proceeding from another. This is not true
studentship, much less the attitude of a disciple.
In fact, it is just this quick recognition of truth
under any form that distinguishes the latter. There
is only one remedy for this want of perception and
personal bias, and that is the civilization of a
responsive hearing of occult truth from divers
sources, apparently unrelated and contradictory,
perhaps revolutionary, and a personal respect for
the sincere expositions of writers of various occult
persuasions, even if one cannot accept them. This
attitude is imperative in a disciple. Let who will
belittle the relative value of his growing experience
in the laws of life, mind, and soul. If the Master
[98]
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F THE D I S C I P L E
is all things to all men, and understands man be'
cause he has all knowledge, and if the disciple
must be as his Master, and if he cannot hope to
be so unless he can show that temper of mind,
the fruit of deep study and experience, which
ensures pupilage, then the latter can only profit
a full man who has reached the limits of the per'
sonal self and waits for the Master’s guidance
because he anticipates it.
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
V V V
{9 9 ]
1
C h a p t e r VIII.
TH E DEM ANDS OF DISCIPLESHIP— 3
11
HE man who is technically known as a
disciple of the Master, is one who has
indubitable proof within himself of con'
tact with the Cosmic or occult world of
force and is applying the inspirational results of
this contact in everyday life in effective service.
A man who lives in and for himself, whatever his
academical occult knowledge may be, is totally
foreign to this definition of a disciple. Disciples
necessarily differ in calibre and in their range of
personal activity; but the status of discipleship
implies the skilful use of a scientific technique to
specific ends in the service of the Master. There
is no such condition as discipleship exercised either
for self-aggrandizement, or from motives of per
sonal ambition, wherein such ambition has for its
object prestige and advantage in the worldly sense.
There are vast fields of demonstration in which
every kind of ambition may be legitimately exer-
[ 101]
cised, and in which a man may allow himself full
and wholesome expression of his faculties. But
discipleship has its own rigorous laws which either
negate these forms of ambition or convert them
into adjuncts of power and efficiency to be used
in the interest of the general evolution of con-
sciousness. The long probation and crucial prepara'
tion incident to discipleship would be lost labour
and lacking in significance were the disciple to
become, through his training, just one more ser'
vant of ambition engaged in the competitive race
of making a name and carving it upon the pillar
of fame one niche higher than his fellows. That,
in its place, is laudable and reacts for good, but
discipleship has nothing in common with it.
The disciple seeks neither name nor prestige. He
is often an unconscious candidate for loss of name
and prestige as commonly understood, and finds
himself engaged in a single'handed combat with
prejudice and adverse influence which threaten the
very ground he stands on. Hence discipleship is
a consummation in development not devoutly to
be wished unless there is an irrestible bias in the
[ 1 0 2 ]
THE TECHNIQUE OF T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
nature toward it and the requirements necessary
for it are fully calculated and resolved upon.
Discipleship, fundamentally speaking, is the ex-
ercise of a structure of mental, psychic, and spir
itual technique founded upon organized character
and applied to specialized work under a Master.
It is the basic character organization which de
mands so much attention from the aspirant during
his novitiate. This foundation for the technique
appeals to me as so important that, while I can
well conceive a man being used as a disciple in a
special sphere of labour for which he has a peculiar
aptitude and therefore the available material can
not be overlooked by those who have decision in
these matters, at the same time discipleship in its
true form demands, in my estimation, an unusual
strength and consistency of character for the ex
ecution of its office with complete independence
and full responsibility in the work attached thereto.
It may be asked whether I am not taking upon
myself too much in demanding, and assuming an
authority unwarranted in determining, so much
excellence to be indispensably necessary for dis
cipleship. I am not demanding or determining any-
[ 103]
thing absolutely or arbitrarily. I have observed
discipleship closely; I have analysed discipleship
in the making in many; and I affirm the results of
these observations. There may be exceptions, as
above said, to meet special conditions. There have
been such exceptions, where the disciple has been
doubtful in points of character. There have been
marked idiosyncracies, erratic departures, tempera'
mental disturbances, manifest weaknesses from a
normal observer’s point of view; nevertheless, a
kind of technique has been in evidence of such
value that all deficiencies of a general nature have
proved of little hindrance, except in the disciple’s
own personal adjustment in life, and the Master
has used that technique with pronounced effect.
I am not orthodox or rigid in assessing human
character; quite the reverse. I am not happy in
the presence of immorality, or mental aberration,
or temperament defeating itself; but when I see a
man achieving a fine work in conjunction with,
or in spite of, either, my attention is fastened upon
the work, not primarily on the man. Am I then
demanding too much in expecting that an aspirant
under training for discipleship, in the course of
[ 1 0 4 ]
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
which he should be moulding and disciplining
mind and temperament and organising character,
should measure up to a commendable level of
mental and temperamental stability and force of
character to guarantee his ultimately taking his
place among those who have achieved this standard
and share in their labour?
There is one thing we have to look to today,
when occultism is overstepping its former bounds,
so to speak, and compelling us to new applications
of its technique, and that is, not to place orthodox
and exclusive interpretations upon it. Narrow
and exclusive interpretation and application of
occult truth have given it bad names in the past.
If an occultist hopes to be of any use in the
present day he will need as much to orient himself
as those he aims to teach. It has been intimated
that there is a strong forward movement among
thinkers in the world. No intelligent student can
doubt it. But exclusive interpretation is not their
watchword. They are interrogating all and every'
thing, even the occultist. W hat I appear to de'
mand and determine regarding the standing and
authority of a disciple is by no means in excess of
[ 105]
THE TECHNIQUE O F THE D I S C I P L E
what they will demand of and determine about
him. He will have to stand well in advance of
those he proposes to assist, or he will be discounted.
And rightly so. W e should not expect to gain the
ear of men of large mental growth by reiterating
homely platitudes, even occult ones, of which they
have forgotten the phraseology but have acted
upon all their lives. If my suggestions about dis-
cipleship appear too exacting, it is not that I ex
pect others to accept and conform to them, but
because I feel the necessity of sketching in bold
outline the conception I entertain of discipleship.
I could sketch a much softer outline, in half lights
and uncertain tones, but, like many other things
seen in half lights and of doubtful meaning, the
outline would for me be a false one. The truth is,
I have no soft and soothing outline for my con
ception of discipleship. On the contrary, I have
no outline bold or forceful enough for the perfect
depiction of it.
I do not say this to perplex or baffle. Perhaps
I am obsessed with the truth of a great idea and
write chiefly for those likewise obsessed and who
can bear to see its formidable contour overshadow-
[ 106]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
ing their whole life, the conception of a technique
of a thousand facets embracing the experience of
many incarnations. A conception of this kind ah
ways compels the soul to declare itself, whatever
reception it may receive. Those who have it not
are inclined to think there is a straining after effect
when they see it, a passing beyond one’s depth
and falling into exaggeration. Discerning only one
aspect of truth they interpret a full and balanced
conception as an abortion. “The history of Bee'
thoven’s life,” says one of his biographers, “is a
record of struggles, a fraction of which would
have exhausted and emptied an ordinary man.”
If the reader will substitute the word disciple for
Beethoven, he will approach my conception of the
history of discipleship. The great man himself said:
“In my instrumental music, I always have the
whole in my mind." There you have my concep
tion of the objective for the disciple. The real
leaders and teachers of men are all of that quality.
Deep down in the soul they have a gigantic grasp
of the technique of their art or science. The true
disciple should be no exception to this first magni
tude of values. In him we look for the paramount
t 107]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
soul, perceptive at the centre of a radiating and
compelling technique, observing with impartiality
every avenue of knowledge; we look for an austen
ity of thought which can withstand the onslaught
of ignorance and evil entities, whether embodied
or emanating with malicious intent from unseen
sources; we look for an emotional responsiveness,
which can answer to all that man can say and do
in the worlds of form, without losing its moral
integrity.
This is my interpretation of the canon of occult
scripture. The precise terms of it may be objected
to, but the fact is embodied in the text. “To be
able to stand, is to have confidence.” Upon that
confidence is based the Rosicrucian technique.
It is equally true in the worldly and occult sense;
but the occult significance is far removed from the
worldly significance. Each has its acknowledged
area of experience and force. Standing in confix
dence, worthy of the name, in the worldly sense,
always implies character. Occult confidence is built
on that; and I maintain that it cannot be built
upon anything but that. W e cannot impart occult
confidence unless we have that. The difference be-
r ’os]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
tween occultism proper and pseudo-occultism is
fundamentally just the difference between char
acter and the absence of it; because, true character
has insight which will not permit itself to be made
a fool of by false values. The men we are pro
posing to contact and inspire in these days will
be men who have a respect for character, and
unless we can impress them first with character
in solid form they will pass by. Evolution during
the past twenty-five years has compelled men to
respect and desire character as never before. The
European war helped to do this more effectually
than anything else. It brought the true values of
life to the fore and gave a death blow to insin
cerity and make-believe. I remember how moved
I once was when a business man of fine culture,
whose wife had been murdered abroad, asked how
he could learn to go into the silence. That is a
great moment in life and makes all the years of
endeavour infinitely worth while. That is the kind
of man we shall contact today and only the disciple
can deal with him. Character he has and confi
dence in the worldly sense; the disciple must have
confidence in the occult sense, and it must be built
[ 109 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E OF T H E D I S C I P L E
upon character that compels the respect of others
because he has the highest respect for it himself.
How marked, for instance, is this character in
Beethoven. It is an arresting fact that many of
his utterances are instinct with spiritual passion
and have a most profound occult application. The
critic will point to the want of balance and con'
trol, the tragic emotional chaos in the man, the
uncompromising, headlong driving against person
alities and through circumstances, leaving a mem
ory so keen and poignant of pathos and regret
behind him. It was so; and in these respects the
disciple cannot accept him as an exemplar. But
he said this: “The only good thing is a beautiful,
good soul, which is recognized in everything, and
in the presense of which there need be no con
cealment. One must be somebody if one wishes to
appear so. The world is bound to recognize one;
it is not always unjust. To me, however, that is
a matter of no importance; for I have a higher
aim. . . .
It may be asked why I introduce Beethoven
here? I do so, not simply because he is one of the
most eminent instances of sublime genius in the
[ no]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
world of art, and was an unconscious disciple and
working under Cosmic direction, but because he
stands out as a classic example of that greatness
of character upon which I am insisting. Nor is
this example in any way irrelevant; for the time
must come when the disciple will feel a marvelous
affinity with such men of character and vision.
Indeed, I go so far as to submit that he will never
fully understand or master occult technique until
he can glance over the field of evolution at once
and meet these characters, spirit to spirit, just
where they stand, and participate in what they
did, by virtue of a sympathetic alignment with the
same rays of Cosmic forces which animated them.
Occult exclusiveness is the one barrier to this
access to the world soul. The force of this state'
ment will have significance only for the disciple
who is taking the higher stages of his vocation.
The aspirant may well miss its value and bearing
in his life. The disciple must be aware of and
interpret understandingly the force of the Cosmic
Hierarchy using with tremendous effect characters
in the most diverse spheres of world evolution,
totally unrelated as they appear objectively to any
[ m ]
T H E TECHNIQUE OF T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
occult nomenclature. He must pass to and fro
at will sympathetically between their world of
thought and his own and feel the synchronous
vibration that underlies both. He must not stand
isolated within his own circle of light and leave
outside as foreign and unrelated activities the art,,
music, and literature which resound throughout
the universe. These are the Master’s own measured
tones of expression and blend harmonically in the
creative W ord. They are voices of the Divine to
which he must listen and respond to and inm
mensely love, until his life trembles with the full'
ness of comprehension of the whole inspirational
life of man.
The disciple creates his own temple of medita'
tion, the invisible circle within which he retires
at will to contact the master in the soul; but if
those precincts become a concrete barrier which
induces isolation and unresponsiveness to the myr'
iad expressions of technique manifesting through
the souls of the great army of master spirits, past
and present, on the broad highway of evolution,
who have lighted up the whole path to the present
hour with a splendour of character and genius so
[ 1 1 2 ]
T H E TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
noble and impressive, that we sometimes wonder
whether they were indeed men; then, not only is
the heresy of separateness, that cardinal sin that
besets every aspirant, upon us, but we pass on
blindly and oblivious of the greatest gift of the
Masters to aspiring men. It is this isolation, which
the aspirant has with pain created and in which
he seeks to remain, shielded from the intrusion of
all influences likely to disturb its serenity, yet
whose mission it is to extend his sympathies and
contacts in every possible direction, that becomes
the barrier to further progress.
During the early years of novitiate the aspirant
is prone to pride himself greatly upon the acquish
tion of new knowledge, and the temptation to
build and hold for himself is strong. I have ob'
served this attitude in many a young Rosicrucian
student. But it has been gratifying also to observe
that as he passes on to higher grades of instruction
a reaction to this attitude takes place. He finds
himself inevitably drawn gradually by the strong
vibration active within the sphere of his acquired
knowledge to seek for some way in which to
project his increasing force and influence for the
[ 113]
benefit of others. Not until this change of attitude
manifests is it possible for him to think in terms
of discipleship. The entire tendency of the life of
discipleship today is toward group cooperation and
effort. The Masters are cosmopolitan in thought,
work, and influence. There are no barriers to their
seership, comprehension and bountiful compassion.
Let the disciple attune his mind to this large and
dignified conception. ‘Th e divine give; they de'
mand that you also shall give before you can be
of their kin.”
TH E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E DISCIPLE
V V V
r ii4j
C h a p t e r IX.
TH E O RGANIC STRUCTURE OF
TH E TECH NIQ UE
E H AVE considered some of the attitudes
and discipline which enable the aspirant
in good time to successfully pass the novh
tiate and take the first steps on the path
of discipleship. W e have to consider him now in
his status of a disciple who, in the words of occult
scripture, is able to stand, able to hear, able to see,
able to speak. The experience gained during his
novitiate enables him to stand firmly and with com
fidence in his own place, to hear the voice of the
soul above the insistent and distracting voices of
the personal life and to follow it, to see the mean*
ing and purpose of his life in the light of the tech'
nical unfoldment within him, and to speak with
authority to those who seek. His mission, as a
disciple, is to be an interpreter and exponent of
the technique in the vocation of discipleship. He
cannot regard that vocation too seriously, or be
[ u s ]
imbued too deeply with the responsibility of it.
The novitiate perfects his manhood; discipleship
must unfold and demonstrate his supenmanhood.
Only upon the rock of mature manhood can the
divine superstructure be safely built. Our concept
tion of manhood for the novitiate is that which
has reference primarily to the mental life, wherein
all the various faculties have been systematically
disciplined and coordinated, are under the control
of the will, and can be applied ably and effectively
to general life activities. There is the sense of on
ganization and basic structure in the mental life
which can assume the responsibilities of larger
vision and knowledge, a groundwork of power and
ability which is subject to no possibility of losing
its integrity or proper management in the face of
emergencies, or liable to disruption from the on'
slaught of inimical influences from circumstances
or men. Those who have observed disciples in the
making and know them personally, can testify to
the presence in them of this basic structure of
mental power and ability; and those who know
what discipleship really means, know how indis'
[ H6]
TH E T ECH N IQ UE OF THE DISCIPLE
THE T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
pensably necessary is this structure for the ade
quate fulfilment of the duties of its vocation.
Upon this foundation evolved during the novi
tiate the fourfold organism of the technique of the
disciple comes into being; ability to stand, to hear,
to see, to speak. W isdom gives the ability to
stand, reverence is born of hearing, caution comes
of inward sight, integrity is necessary for speech.
It will be proper to consider this somewhat in de
tail. It should be unnecessary to affirm that the
disciple must have wisdom in order to stand in the
occult sense. If there is one thing more than all
others that compels the admiration and allegiance
of the disciple to the Master, it is the sublime and
inclusive knowledge of the latter and the mathe
matical exactitude with which he can apply any
phase of his technique generally to any situation,
and particularly in his tuition of a disciple. W e
read much of the compassion of the Master, but
it is not the sentimental emotion which some are
apt to regard it. That compassion derives from
his profound and searching knowledge of and in
sight into the mind and soul of humanity. The
personal element is not in evidence in the dealing
[ 1 1 7 ]
of the Master with his disciples. The rigorous
laws of discipline in his training should teach us
that. This is not said from underestimation of
the value of the affectional life, but to point the
truth that the higher mind and spiritual will are
the prime channels of expression and use in the
life of the Master and disciple. Through those
channels alone do we approach to the heart of
things and gain true knowledge and insight into
the sphere of causes. Contact with that subtle
atmosphere will almost invariably unfold the flow'
er of compassion in the heart. The disciple need
only penetrate deeply enough into the life of the
soul to feel all the compassion he is able to bear.
The heart and passional life are active enough in
the majority. The art of devotion is a compara'
tively easy attainment. It has considerable attem
tion during the novitiate. But devotion alone will
never comprehend and exercise the technique of
discipleship.
Wisdom therefore must be the disciple's most
powerful aid at this point; and by wisdom I mean
the essential knowing derived from specialized
study of the science of the soul. The disciple must
[118]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
\now, and be able to apply his knowledge. His
mind must be replete with principles of technical
adaptation to the infinite problems of develop-
ment that will confront him and demand his aid
during his life of service. He will never trouble
to look back and observe how far he has come, or
pride himself upon some little advancement beyond
a previous condition of relative ignorance; but
forever in his mind’s eye will stand the image of
the master mind, with its perfect equipment and
amazing resourcefulness, and the compassionate
understanding and power of assistance which the
Master has already vouchsafed to him. He will
seek by every possible avenue to augment the
principles of knowledge revealed to him, whereby
his technique may be brought nearer to perfection.
During this steady unfoldment of the technique
he will gain the ability to hear truth in the occult
sense. Impersonality here is of first importance.
This subject has been considered in a previous
book, and is now approached from a different
angle. The diversified knowledge imperative for
the disciple must be obtained from authentic
sources, from traditional sources of acknowledged
[ 1 1 9 ]
T H E T ECH H IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
value and utility. Not neglecting the discoveries
of the moderns but testing their value in his own
life, he will ground his knowledge upon the ap
proved theory and practice of the Rosicrucian
and other proficients which have stood the test
of time and are destined to enlighten all the
realms of knowledge of the future. These expo
sitions of the science will prove the great trans
forming power in his life. Through constant and
inward brooding they will become the very con
tent of his soul and awaken a deep reverence for
all teaching that proceeds from reliable seership.
I say reverence, because all the possibilities of his
advance in the technique arise from the sincere and
selfless assimilations of these transcripts of il
lumined experience set down by those who have
trodden the way and write for his guidance. Rev
erence for the universal applications of truth from
whatsoever sources of acknowledged authority is
a very special quality in the disciple; since in his
work with others he will certainly meet in time
with the most diverse applications of occult wis
dom, and he must not be wanting in due reverence
[120]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
for their personal persuasions nor lack a proper
responsiveness thereto.
Wisdom deeply assimilated, and reverence for it
in all authorities and the manifold and singular ap'
plications of it in others, will develop inward sight
into human lives; and this breadth of knowledge
and vision will confer caution in statement and
advice. How easy it is to hinder or mar through
incautious speech! It is worth an infinite amount
of pains to develop that poise of mind and pa'
tiently await the fruits of experience through
study and reflection, so that the judgment we make
and the advice we give shall be right and wise and
ensure a grateful response because we have under'
stood. A great responsibility rests upon the dis'
ciple in this. Karmic association will bring many
to him for guidance and assistance, and the long
habit of mental assimilation, of personal assump'
tion or translation of personality, must enable him
to pass selflessly into another life and understand
its limitations. The technique unfolds this power,
and it must be used with complete disinterested'
ness. The attitude of the disciple to others must
be: W hat is this soul saying to me, and how must
[ 121 ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
I respond for its enlightenment? It is not simply
what the disciple thinks of the specific problem
from his own point of view; it is what it means to
another and from what angle of vision it can
wisely be approached and resolved, that has to
be taken into consideration before advice is offered.
The disciple may exercise incaution by applying a
too advanced phase of his technique to a problem
for its solution, a grade of force quite beyond the
possibility of acceptance, as surely as he might
speak incautiously through the want of adequate
personal detachment and selflessness. The due and
attentive exercise of these latter qualities will in
evitably sharpen the sense of inward sight into
the soul life and lead in time to an instantaneous
and intuitive comprehension of the status of an
other soul and its immediate need. I consider this
one of the highest and most inspiring aspects of
the technique of the disciple.
The power of right speech demands integrity
in the disciple. I define integrity of speech here
as an entire correspondence with the concepts
of occult truth as intuitionally apprehended. The
disciple has the vision of and access to the truth
[ 122]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
of things, and from thence arises the power of
speech for the helping of others. However much
he may have dissembled before he entered the
path, perhaps in legitimate self-interest and to
avoid criticism, the technique of the disciple will
compel the truth of life to shine through him. He
must declare the truth that is in him, forgetful of
or indifferent to the opinions of others. It is the
very condition of discipleship that he has attained
a new altitude, and what he sees from that altitude
must be declared, if only for the few who need
and will profit of it. This point scarcely needs to
be enlarged upon, for the technique, in its true
form, is of that force and courage that it cannot
postpone itself. Rash or untimely speech is for
eign to it, but the quest evoked by it vibrates
across the space with dynamic purpose. It laughs
at enemies and criticism and rejoices in the possi
bilities of its own glorious service. It is satisfied
if it can coin the true word for the Master’s
thought and hallow the ether with it.
Wisdom to stand in confidence, reverence for
the truth of the science, caution in the exposition
of it, and integrity in what is uttered: this is the
[ 123 ]
basis of the fourfold organism of the disciple’s
technique. The experience which will accrue to
the disciple who acts conscientiously upon these
sound and well-tried principles of his vocation
will enable him to exercise that tolerance and
gravity which are so becoming and attractive when
faced with points of difference in the presentations
of truth issuing from many sources of authority.
If he takes the Rosicrucian path I do not think
there will be much fear of delinquency in this
respect, because, for one thing, he will be con'
versant with the history of the great characters
of the past, philosophers and scientists, schoolmen
and reformers, all followers and exponents of the
Divine Arcana, but approaching the secret science
from the most various standpoints, many of them
so markedly original and inspired and professedly
Rosicrucian in character and belief, that he will
receive the strongest incentive to take an universal
and inclusive view of all tendencies in modern
thought, scholarship and technique towards the
evolution of consciousness. This breadth of vision
is characteristic of the disciple, and it especially
marks him in these days when the clash of sects
[ 1 2 4 ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
and philosophies and religions is still holding so
many back from a Cosmic understanding and en-
lightenment. Nor is the occult field any exception
to intolerance and light-mindedness in this respect.
Occult sects fight as bitterly for their little plat'
forms of truth as the orthodox Christian bodies.
The disciple must stand above this. He must be
able to hear all, understand all, and speak to all.
He must learn to be silent in the presence of the
thinking mind struggling with the expression of its
inspired gift of Cosmic truth. He cannot afford
to ignore the voices of the messengers. They will
help him to understand himself. There are none
too many of them. And his aim must be to stand
with them upon equal terms of knowledge and
power.
The attitude of patient hearing and compre
hension of many presentations of master minds
firmly established, the disciple will develop in his
vocation the ability to approach the problems of
the path from a wide and understanding basis of
knowledge. He will thus avoid the pathetic and
discouraging attitude of those teachers who can
only speak to an aspirant from their own restricted
[ 125]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
platform of particular belief; while he approaches
them very often from a far more catholic concep'
tion of truth than their own. The disciple will not
assume to know what he does not in order to hold
a reputation for knowledge beyond his scope; but
it is expected that he will, through conscientious
and prolonged personal effort, and havingtaken the
full term of the novitiate, not be ignorant of any
general problem of development that is likely to
be presented to him. He will find that he will be
able to handle far greater work and responsibilities
connected with the path than he at first imagined
possible. The reason for this arises from a fact of
the technique itself. For the technique is not of
a fixed and stable measure, so to speak; it has a
native resilience and adaptability and discloses re'
serves of knowledge and force, under pressure of
need, of unexpected capacity. In the case of fac
ulties operating entirely upon the mental plane,
we know, as a rule, that present extent and possi'
bility of their use; we know approximately what
we can and cannot do with them. This kind of
limitation does not apply to the exercise of the
technique. And I conceive this is so because it
[ 126]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
does not originate upon the mental plane, but
fundamentally and directly in the world of occult
force. It derives from a sphere of unlimited possi-
bilities; and a disciple who has developed and is
using the technique understandingly as above out'
lined, is not subjected to more or less arbitrary
limits in the exercise of it as in the case of the
purely mental faculties within the spheres of sci-
ence, art, or learning. Under pressure of need
or emergency for service, its vibration may be so
extended and augmented, may become so inspired
and potent, that he will be truly humbled by the
Cosmic response that has been accorded to him;
and, having once responded to this exceptional
measure, beyond anything he hitherto considered
possible to him, the incentive will be firm to de
liberately work towards making this extension a
normal feature of the technique. Nor is their any
limit to such extensions. Indeed, it is such exten
sions of personal vibrations which impart unique
ness to the disciple’s experience and render it so
valuable to others. It is not that an extension in
energy simply confers ability to meet the emer
gency. It is a true unfoldment into a higher grade
{ 127]
TH E T ECH N IQ U E OF T H E DISCIPLE
of sensitivity to world vibration on every hand.
It is an advancement in individual knowing and
insight over a large field in world contact. It is an
advance in world telepathy; by which I mean, that
the disciple ensures for himself a mental radio
sensitiveness to the thought and purpose of his
compeers throughout the world. He will become
conscious of attunement with other disciples work'
ing at his own level; their thought and force will
amalgamate with his own; he will become un-
consciously at one with deeper strata of intelli
gence and illumination upon which he will draw in
his work; he will find himself assimilating uncon-
sciously the inner values of the technique used by
all disciples everywhere. Is there not more than a
hint in this conception of the rapidity and facility
with which the technique grows spontaneously,
augments itself, and becomes so amazingly inclu
sive of knowledge and projective of influence,
when once it has reached a certain momentum in
the disciple’s life? It is a divine and classic adven
ture, only possible to a great soul able to subjugate
all lesser aims and pledged to the Master life.
r ns ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OP THE DISCIPLE
Within the radius of this attained measure of
technical sensitivity and responsiveness, extending,
be it noted, from the first step of the novitiate up
to the present point of organic and instrumental
equipment, lies a vast field of possible service for
the disciple in the lives of aspirants attracted to
him by Karmic affiliation and in whose lives he is
destined to play a part. In this work he will have
an opportunity to try himself out in the most
intricate ways in correct diagnosis of individual
need. Occult diagnosis is comparable on the mental
and spiritual planes to that of the physician on the
physical, and should be no less exacting. Now,
it is a special feature of the technique when well
developed that it has an immediate perception of
the mood or truth behind the written or spoken
word. This insight is so immediate and penetrating,
that I have known a technician often to respond
not so directly to what has been spoken or written,
but to the facts unintentionally withheld or with
intent concealed and unfold the seeker’s problem
with minuteness and accuracy, much to the sur-
prise of the latter. Unusual, if not uncanny, as it
may appear to the seeker, the technician is to
[ 129]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
expect this feature of his science to become very
pronounced as he carries out his diagnoses pa'
tiently and untiringly on a wide scale, and so
enters into the very soul sphere of those contacted.
The diagnosis characteristic of the technique is not
the result of logical procedure; it is not a calcu'
lated process of mental ratiocination. Ratiocination
upon the subtle elements of human character and
conduct, their singularities and combinations,
agreements and conflicts, their involutions and
evolutions observable in many individual types,
may be a thoroughly digested subconscious con'
tent in the disciple, resulting from severe mental
training in the past; in fact, all this is a part of
this preliminary technical equipment; but the
diagnostic feature of the technique in its pure form
is nothing less than a fine spiritual sagacity which
discerns the recurring complications in students’
lives and denotes the corresponding solutions to
them, based upon successive evidences of them,
clear and luminous, in his own soul memory.
The technique of the disciple gives him direct
access to this repertoire of experienced knowledge
or reminiscence, and upon it he draws at will with
[130]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
confidence and certainty in the work of ministry
in his vocation. To be able to do this is compensa-
tion for all the pains of discipline and growth that
lie behind him. These are now forgotten in the
calm consciousness of dispensing knowledge and
healing to those still in the throes of the novitiate,
or lost for a while in the darkness of the obscure
night, crying for a word of wise assurance that the
quest is not a hopeless one, and needing the sure
touch of an understanding guidance to pilot them
over the threshold into larger life. All this and
more is within the scope of the early stages of the
technique: knowledge and influence are within
the disciple’s grasp, but never to make an exhibi
tion of, or to strike a note of superiority, or to
mark the distance between himself and the hum
blest aspirant, or for the imposition of personal
opinion rather than timely and inspiring sugges
tion. These are perilous negatives absolutely for
bidden in discipleship. It is not suggested that the
disciple’s service to others should consist of a tame
and bloodless platitudinism. The technique is in
the highest sense positive, virile and masterful. It
is the developed diagnostic element in it that tem-
f 1
3
1]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
pers and adjusts the whole technical adaptation
to the appropriate measure of expression and exer-
cise. It enables him to stand aside, to become self
less in the presence of another's difficulty, that the
conditions of it brought to him may appear in their
right setting and character, unobstructed by the
personal opinion of the disciple about them. It
is not what he thinks about the matter from his
point of evolution, but what it means in the life
and circumstances of the one who presents it to
him. That is a fine point, and the disciple is on
trial as to how he deals with it. He is to lead
and suggest, enlighten and inspire, penetrate the
hidden associations and ramifications of a diffi
culty, reveal a way of ascension over it; so much
so that he himself, or any personal predilection,
scarcely appears, but only the revealing of a
new way, a larger thought, a subtle flavour of that
blessed influence entrusted to him by the Master
for self-effacing dispensation.
V V V
THE TECHNIQUE OF T H E D I S C I P L E
[ 1 3 2 ]
C h a p t e r X.
TH E DISCIPLE IN ACTIO N
HE aspirant will have taken many im-
portant steps on the path from his em
trance upon the novitiate to the point
of conscious discipleship sketched in the
preceding chapter. It is a period requiring the
hard study and concentrated effort of many years.
I may incur the charge of repetition in dwelling
again upon this aspect of the theme. It will bear
repetition. The hypothetical aspirant I have taken
with me through these pages may be on the verge
of true discipleship, and this serious communion
between us may precipitate and bring into action
the mature faculty of past lives hitherto unreal'
ised. Let him focus all his powers of mind and
soul upon the task, confronting himself with
steady circumspection, and resolved upon a new
cycle of unfoldment. It is a task only for those
who have counted the cost, are of a settled and
determined temperament, fearless in investigation,
f
and of that quality of spirit which can wrestle
with difficulty and meet a challenge. I sound the
note of the conquering will in the domain of mind
and spirit: not the iron will, but the will of steel,
keen and bright in its native lustre, driving straight
as an arrow to its appointed goal. I must again
quote the noble Beethoven: he is so magnificently
impregnated with the supreme spirit of conquest.
“Power,” he wrote, “is the morality of men who
stand out from the rest, and it is also mine." Not
the power of a tyrant, but the conscious strength
of a soul inspired by the Spirit of God. It is that
power which, in the words of the Rosicrucian
ritual, is offered to the true initiate:—“God alone
will be your inspiration; the philosophers will be
your equals. The highest intelligence will be am'
bitious to obey your desires; the demons will not
dare to approach the place where you are; your
voice will make them tremble in the depths of the
abyss.” I commend this ideal religiously to the
disciple.
The disciple in his ministry will soon be able
to testify to the endless perplexing problems and
sufferings in human lives, to which there is neither
[ 1 3 4 ]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
answer nor hope of healing in the outside world.
They repeat themselves daily in almost monoton'
ous succession, and will continue to exercise the
same cruel tyranny and cast the same cloud of
hopelessness upon the soul in travail unless the
Karma of knowledge replaces that of ignorance or
worldliness. Let no aspirant think that, in qualify'
ing for discipleship and rising to the larger con'
ception and issues of life, these things will no
longer trouble him. Not so; discipleship will make
him aware in a keener sense than ever before of
the cross laid upon humanity. He, no matter what
his growth and knowledge, cannot escape it. He
will understand life and know how to adjust to
and live it, scientifically and wisely, and he will
reap the spiritual joy of his labour; but he can
never rest in peace and inaction; for the voices of
the world soul will strike upon his sensitive ear
with poignancy a hundred-fold greater than before
his novitiate, and he will be constrained by the
compassion active in his soul to throw himself
earnestly into the company of those who have
answered his petition only that he shall partake of
their holy service. For to deliberately work
11” ]
T H E TECHNIQUE OF T H E D I S C I P L E
through the novitiate and on to the path of dis'
cipleship, with the consequent unfolding of the
organism of the technique within the natural man,
is nothing less than projecting into the Master’s
world an evensounding, voiceless petition to live
after the laws and principles of that world. And
having attained to such a commendable exercise of
the technique as has been described is the surest
proof he can have that his petition has been heard
and answered.
“When the disciple is ready to learn, then he is
accepted, acknowledged, recognized. It must be so;
for he has lit his lamp, and it cannot be hidden.”
That is precisely where the disciple now stands.
His present technical organism is the lamp he has
lighted through the bold adventure of his dynamic
will. Its radiance shines in the Master’s presence
and is reflected back as a beam of knowledge to
enlighten the darkness of the world. That is the
simple issue to which all the storied past has led
him. He has kindled the light of the soul, and his
mission is to kindle the light in other souls. His
contact with the Master is sure: it exists, unknown
to the world, in the deeps of his wholly aspiring
[ 136]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
and dedicated life. His aura is tense and radiant
with the force and luminosity of the fire of this
contact. There can be no failure, no diminution
of that silent bond of fellowship, only expansion
and augmentation of the vital elements in it, so
long as the disciple remains true to the sacred
ritual inscribed by it in his members. It will grow
as the flower grows, but not to fade. Its many
petalled radiance will increase in glory with every
access of influence directed upon him from the in-
ner plane of ascension to strengthen his life of
service.
One of the many paradoxes in the disciple’s
life, which experience will have brought home
strongly to him, is, that although his development
must perforce acquaint him in the deepest sense
with the fact of loneliness, yet he cannot work in
isolation. His unfolding technique takes him fun
ther and further from the common worldly inter-
ests of men, in so far as personal participation in
them is concerned; but this inevitable retreat
means a corresponding advance towards coopera
tive interest and action with those of his own
plane of knowledge and purpose. The need of this
1 137]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
cooperation will be forced upon him by his grow'
ing experience, and if he is fully awake to the
possibilities of it he will not hesitate to accept it.
This is mentioned because there are some who
have been compelled by the circumstances of their
development to work so utterly alone, with no
sympathy or understanding from others in their
environment, that on reaching at length certain
objectives they have felt that the alliance of their
forces with others was a matter of more or less in-
difference. I have the greatest sympathy for one
whose circumstances of development have induced
that attitude of mind. To him who can say, “I
have trodden the winepress alone; and of the
people there was none with me"; my heart speaks
in perfect brotherhood. It is a condition of the
path; and the solitary trial of the obscure night
may just as likely as not cause him to forget that
brotherhood exists. But that trial passed, he will
discern emerging from the shadows others who
have passed and understand and await his coop
eration for momentous work. He must not fail
that call, but give his “aid to the few strong hands
[ U8]
TH E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
that hold back the powers of darkness from ob
taining complete victory.”
But is there need to sound this word of caution?
It seems to me that the kind of aspirant I have
been communing with in these pages will not need
it. To him, as to me, the path and the responsi
bilities and duties of it are very life, and only death
can put a temporary period to the assumption of
those responsibilities and the fulfilment of those
duties. He will be surprised, when the technique
comes to work smoothly within him and brings a
deeper insight into souls, and enables him to in
terpret the lives of those fellow disciples who need
his cooperation, he will be surprised beyond meas
ure to note how similar to their own has been the
long day of his trial and discipline. This is the
foundation of the co-nature existing between them.
They have all stood alone, aspired alone, fought
the secret battle alone, until the light of the soul
shone in the Master’s presence and, reflected back
into the world, attracted the vigilant eyes of those
other disciples, working each in his appointed
place. He will realize that, throughout all the
searching discipline of discipleship he has really
[ 139]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
been allied with the brethren of the spirit in the
four quarters of the earth; that he has been but
one of an invisible fraternity of aspiring souls,
selfless as himself, chanting the same litany, in
toning the same sacred word, infused with the
same vibration of revealing fire, and knowing
every soul that passes within the precincts of the
temple of their consecrated service. This is not
fantasy: it is a fact of the ascent of consciousness.
And the successive dawnings within him of what
is transpiring upon spiral after spiral of the as
cent is one of the climaxes of experience. The
awareness of this fact of the simultaneous effort
of many in comparative individual isolation to a
common level of spiritual co-partnership, brings
to the disciple a new accession of strength, cour
age and purpose. No matter in what condition of
loneliness he may live and work, the illusion of
isolation no longer overshadows him. He will now
be in a position to see how many of the things
which have held him back, and forced him on,
have been more of the nature of illusion than fact.
It was said that the laws and principles of the
technique which the disciple is learning to comply
t 140]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
with and use, emanate from perfected technicians
who function in the superconscious realm, and
that these technicians compose various sections or
groups of the Great W hite Lodge. Now anyone
who observes closely the trend of modem evolu
tionary thought cannot fail to perceive the very
conspicuous fact that this advancing thought is
expressing itself more and more noticeably and
powerfully in cooperative and group form. In
every direction is to be seen the amalgamation of
individuals, the consolidating of forces, the con
centration of knowledge through organized chan
nels for swifter and more potent results, all which
has ultimately in view a larger and more expressive
life for the individual unit—but not for him alone.
I do not refer to the masses of average human be
ings, who care for nothing beyond the day and
seek the greatest pleasure in it. I refer to those in
whom the mind is awakened, those who feel deep
ly the problems and responsibilities of existence
and are sensing somewhat of the purpose of it.
They are to be found within the occult field and
outside of it, of all kinds of belief and profession.
It is towards these thinking, progressive men and
[ 1 4 1 ]
women that the disciple gravitates in his work.
They are really seeking each other. The disciple
knows this: the others do not; and it is only a
matter of time when the attractive force of syn-
chronous vibration will unite them in work and
service. But this can only transpire, or it will
transpire much sooner than otherwise it would,
through the synchronous and high-powered vibra
tion of disciples working in cooperation. I write
from personal experience of this all-important
truth; but confirmation of it may be found in
many of the writings of the initiates. “Let us
establish," it is written, “our relations towards
Rosicrucians, masons and other organizations,
where the general good is approached. Many
Mahatmas have participated in them. And when
we remember the altruistic principles of the foun
dation of these organizations, we must not deny
them. When it concerns sincere motives then all
workers for the general good must unite. Especial
ly when the spirit is developed and the conscious
ness does not sleep." This is a direct call and peti
tion to the technicians of the schools of occultism
for the amalgamation of forces, the sharing of
[ 142]
TH E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E DISCIPLE
knowledge and experience, the surmounting of
personal inclinations and mental and emotional
differences, and the united concentration and pro
jection of esoteric force, and every ability which
the unfolding technique has awakened into activ
ity, into appropriate channels of expression that
will reach and invite the progressive mind of the
age. Recondite and ideal as this may appear at
the first glance, there is nothing so eminently prac
tical and sure of response as the united force of
discipleship. Subjective as it is in its technique
and unusual methods of application, amalgamated
and enlightened esoteric force possesses an ir-
restible potency and is responsible, under the direc
tion of Masters, for the masterly advancement of
the thinking mind to the conception of a new life
in this exceptional cycle.
That is one aspect of the need of cooperative
work by the disciple. It indicates a special duty he
has towards the progressive thinkers of the world
who are not actually within but are approaching
the occult field of thought. But he will observe
that if these thinkers are to be inclined to an ac
ceptance of occult thought and experimentation,
r 14? ]
they must be impressed with the weight of evi-
dence of truth and the unimpeachable technique
of those who proclaim this thought and by the ap
peal of the experimental work done by them. The
disciple working alone will not accomplish this.
He will undoubtedly be powerful in his own place
and within a very limited sphere; but the impres
sion of evidence needed of the truth declared and
demonstration achieved, must emanate from the
strong and irresistible cooperative forces of dis
cipleship. The progressive mind of today has a
range of knowledge and a personal prestige, and
in many directions is of that self-centered opinion-
ativeness and self-sufficiency along its own lines,
that it is not very susceptible of change or open
to the appeal of isolated evidence. It has that
settled personal persuasion which can only be in
fluenced through the amalgamated knowledge and
forces emanating from the sphere of cooperative
discipleship. If we look back to the early cycles
of the Rosicrucian activities, we find this coopera
tive idea strongly in evidence. The initiates of the
various periods worked in the closest secret con
tact in all parts of the world. And whatever the
[ 144]
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
particular work each did for humanity, it bore the
mark, the strength and character, the immortal
seal, of the united influence of the fraternity to
which he belonged. Some of them laboured under
the most difficult conditions and in circumstances
of imminent peril: they were in danger of being
apprehended by the authorities of church and
state as charlatans and a menace to society. And
today remnants of this peril survive, not indeed
from church or state, but from some sections of
society which appear to be veritable reincarnations
of the spirit which actuated those authorities in
the past times. And then, as now, to these evil
tendencies, ever vigilant to thwart the progress of
man towards spiritual freedom, the initiates would
have succumbed had they not been closely knit
with their compeers in many places, and, support'
ed and inspired by psychic contact and conversa'
tion in the spiritual domain, lived and worked, as
it were, invisibly, and passed their noble treasures
of thought into the stream of general learning, to
be seised upon and honourably used by the few
progressive thinkers of the time; but in the main
hidden, even in the open light of day, for those
[ H5 ]
THE T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
T H E T E C H N I Q U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
who should come after them. History repeats it
self here, as elsewhere; but in each succeeding
period a new spiral is achieved, and these forces
of evil, so far as physical plane encroachments are
concerned, are sensibly diminished.
The group activities to cultural ends of all kinds
prevalent around him should be a powerful visible
inducement to the disciple in this cycle to heed the
call to cooperative effort. But a greater induce
ment, and of paramount importance to him, is the
fact of the corporate character of all sections of
the Brotherhood of Masters to which he has given
his allegiance. There is no ancient tradition so
jealously guarded as that which comprises the laws
and principles, the rules and procedures, of the
one Great Lodge. The disciple should honour that
tradition. It has an imposing gravity and wisdom,
because it derives from those elders of the ages
who sustain in collective understanding and with
unsearchable responsibility the all-knowledge of
human evolution. As above, so below. The Mas
ters will have the corporate idea become a work
ing factor in the disciple’s life if he would know
that tradition as a living organism of light, inspira-
[ 146]
T H E T E C H H I & U E O F T H E D I S C I P L E
tion and power. The Masters are not interested
primarily in his personal development for himself
alone, but in centres of esoteric force consisting of
efficient units working in harmonious combination
and alignment. Such centres of skilled occult tech'
nicians have been the secret of accomplishment in
all the fraternities of occultism of the past. This
law of corporate demonstration holds good on the
high plane of hierarchical activity, on the inter'
planes of Masters and initiates, and among dis'
ciples engaged in physical plane action. It is
through this close interrelationship and amalgama'
tion of centres of esoteric force that the Brother'
hood of Masters wields its great influence and af'
fords the disciple who is ready an unique oppor'
tunity of qualifying for higher service.
V V V
[ 1 4 7 ]
C h a p t e r XI.
THE INQ UISITIO N OF FIRE
HE stages of the path and the requirements
for discipleship have teen set out again
and again in the text books. There is a
_____ good deal of similarity between them; so
much so, that they appear to be mainly paraphrases
one of another. The requirements usually resolve
themselves into the well known cardinal qualifica'
tions of a mental and moral character; and while
these qualifications are undoubtedly necessary and
must be regarded as foundational principles in dis-
cipleship, they nevertheless impress one as a formal
structure which lacks the living content of in'
dividual experience. W hy is this? Not, presunv
ably, because the compilers of textbooks on dis-
cipleship are without experience of it, unless they
choose to adopt the role of copyists. If they write
from knowledge they must have experience of the
technical training involved in discipleship. Per'
haps some of them felt that this experience was
[ H9]
not suitable for publication. This is understand'
able, because the actual experience precipitated
while under training is of so searching and inti-
mate a character, that there may be a disinclina'
tion to impart it, or no feeling of necessity to do
so, or indeed, the very nature of the experience,
subtle in texture and more like fleeting reminis'
cence than the luminous conceptions of objective
consciousness, may elude the conscious grasp of
thought and refuse embodiment in formal langu'
age.
In my opinion, the embodiment of this peculiar'
ly intimate, individual experience in formal langu'
age is of the highest value to the neophyte. It will
enable him to interpret the unfolding of his own
soul life and realize that the technique is a living
and very personal matter. This particular value I
have had in mind from first to last in these books
on the technique. I have written without reserve
and from deep conviction, what this development
means to me. I have not sought to depreciate the
value of genuine textbooks, or the views of others.
I have been constrained to unfold my own mental
and spiritual conception of the truth of this devel'
[n o ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
opment as experienced in my own life. And I have
found, through its reactions upon others, that this
is a true way of service and one which is much
needed and appreciated.
No one more values traditional teaching and
method than I do. There is nothing we need to
be so much reminded of, if we are ever in danger
of forgetting it, in the present day, when innova
tions of every description crowd upon us, threat
ening the dignity and stability of life and action,
and inviting us to compete in the questionable race
for this and that dubious material conquest, which
will no more satisfy the soul than the swinish life
of the prodigal son. This is not a digression, for
the aspirant will need to make discrimination in
this respect, or the temptation to divert his ener
gies to a quest unworthy of his original purpose
may prove too strong for him and valuable time
will be wasted. The important thing is, that tradi
tion shall not blind him to the necessities of the
hour. Bacon said: “W ith regard to authority, it
is the greatest weakness to attribute infinite credit
to particular authors, and to refuse his own pre
rogative to time, the author of all authors, and,
[ m ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
therefore, of all authority. For truth is rightly
esteemed the daughter of time, not of authority.
It is not wonderful, therefore, if the bonds of
antiquity, authority, and unanimity, have so en-
chained the power of man, that he is unable, as if
bewitched, to become familiar with things them'
selves.” The day is yet remote when the authorita
tive word of Bacon will lose its value. True to the
Rosicrucian tradition, he has written for all time;
and these words of his are apt to my theme. The
textbooks on discipleship have given us the skele
ton outline of the necessary qualifications for it:
the skeleton requires the vital body of living ex
perience of the disciple to render it of utility to
the aspirant.
“The real order of experience,” says Bacon, “be
gins by setting up a light, and then shows the road
by it, commencing with a regulated and digested,
not a misplaced and vague course of experiment,
and thence deducing axioms, and from those
axioms new experiments.” “For as in ordinary
life every person’s disposition, and the concealed
feelings of the mind and passions are most drawn
out when they are disturbed—so the secrets of
{ 152]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
nature betray themselves more readily when tor'
mented by art than when left to their own
course.” These acute aphorisms afford a basis for
my concluding remarks on the disciple and his
technique.
W e respect traditional occult teaching and
method because they have stood the test of time.
There is not a working disciple who is not indebt'
ed to them. He can no more deny their influence
in his development and work than the author can
repudiate the influence of literary tradition upon
the language in which he creates. Tradition has
this of good in it, that it comes to the student’s
hand with the impress of countless master minds
upon it since the time of its original and spontan'
eous birth. These minds have assimilated it, re'
taining yet adapting it, to the various cycles in
which they lived and taught. It has never been
lost sight of, no matter what the particular adapta'
tion of it in any cycle has been, but has continued
to be a basis of intellectual security, a corrector
of personal aberration, a guide for honest en-
deavour, and the very hope and guarantee of
future discovery. It has taught us the amenities
t i” ]
of intellectual conduct and opened the book of
universal knowledge for all succeeding generations.
It is the initial means by which the student gathers
to himself a body of attested truth about his
science. Were the tradition an isolated and soli'
tary one it would not have this unassailable
authority and importance, or merit the reverence
of generations of thinkers. But in occultism there
is a multiplication of traditions converging in one
body of accepted doctrine, and the reason why the
disciple must respect it is because the imprimatur
of the Great Brotherhood is upon it.
But the cycles of the present differ from those
of the past in this respect: the unparalleled pro-
gress of the thinking mind compels the vision of
new processes and unexpected adaptations of the
knowledge transmitted to us. W e stand today be-
fore the advent of a new instauration, of far great'
er importance, to us, than that majestic instaura'
tion magisterially proclaimed by Bacon. The broad
bases of knowledge and method laid down by him
remain a luminous guide in the present cycle in
the unveiling of the heart of things. If ever man
had a perfected form of technique, Bacon had it.
[ 1T4]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF TH E DISCIPLE
“The real order of experience begins by setting up
a light." Note the application of this axiom: the
disciple must kindle his own light and unfold by
means of it his own order of experience, which
alone is a real guide for him; and that light will
show him the way, commencing with a regulated
and digested groundwork of laws and principles
of occult tradition, thence to a deduction of
axioms of personal development, thence to an ap-
plication of experiments for the demonstration
thereof.
Bacon, writing from profound knowledge of the
human constitution and its behaviour, says that a
person’s disposition and the concealed feelings and
passions of the mind are truly revealed under the
pressure of unusual conditions. Now the tech
nique constitutes a recurring initiation into unusual
conditions of mind. The training of the disciple
sets up a powerful interaction between the per
sonality and the soul, and when alignment is
established the mind and brain are recipient of an
increasing influx of the force of the soul. The
mind receives new accessions of knowledge from
the soul, the brain areas are stimulated by the
rifn
TH E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
heightening vibration to respond thereto, and the
field of cognition is sensibly enlarged. This process
creates that disturbance referred to by Bacon. The
emotional life is accentuated, the mental life is
awakened to unexpected strength and venture,
and both in conjunction militate at times against
the soul which has brought them to trial. And it
is no inconsiderable part of the technical training
of the disciple to make this alignment a stable and
wholly praiseworthy one in the conduct of life,
and to subdue and overcome those unavoidable
tendencies incident to the process which constitute
a veritable inner battle between the hitherto domi'
nant personal self and the spiritual man who is
rising in the ascendant.
This unveiling of the real nature of the disciple
is of surpassing importance and comprises a major
portion of his training. The purpose of it is
summed up in the words of the Master: “It is not
enough to know thoroughly what a pupil is cap'
able of doing or not doing at the time and under
the circumstances during the period of probation.
W e have to know of what he may become capable
under different and every kind of opportunities.”
[ 156 ]
How is this to be discerned? By the way in which
a disciple conducts himself in relationship with
other disciples to whom he is Karmically attached
in group work, by his motive, speech and action
in relationship with those who pass within his
sphere of occult service, and by the selfish or im
personal use he makes of the knowledge and force
automatically passing within his control as a con
sequence of his fully conscious dedication of him
self to the Masters. It will be obvious that a dis
ciple working in comparative isolation cannot be
put fully upon trial in this way. He can only be
brought to know himself through a most searching
inquisition of his emotional and mental life; and
this can only take place within a sphere of active
occult service in which this life is urged to ex
pression in ordinary and exceptional circumstances
of relationship with and adjustment to others.
The Master’s word is very plain on this point:
“of what he may become capable under different
and every kind of opportunities.” The aspirant
may think he knows full well what he is or will be
capable of when opportunities present themselves:
but no trust is so perilous as new force in new
[ H7 ]
THE TECHNIQUE O F TH E DISCIPLE
hands. When once the door to the Master’s world
is opened, to but a slight degree, influx of force to
the personality is the consequence; and this force
can destroy as easily as it can build up. It can
demoralize the disciple as easily as it can add to
his human nature another Christ-like quality. It
is impersonal in action and descends upon him
from within, in response to his reiterated petition,
to search and test the strength and weakness of
his constitution, indifferent whether he stand or
fall. The issue rests absolutely with the disciple.
If he has chastened himself aforetime in mind and
heart, cultured his emotions, developed his ana
lytical faculties, sharpened his intuition to a point
of instant seizure of implicated motive and sug
gestion, the tension of a fiery force released in his
economy, accentuating these developments, will
cause no unpropitious reactions, because the op
portunities which it opens to the disciple in his re
lationships will have been largely anticipated dur
ing the period of technical discipline. He will
stand firm as a rock in his own place, discerning
the possibility of ignominious failure veiled within
the fair form of insidious temptation which sud-
ri«i
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
THE T ECH N IQ UE OF THE DISCIPLE
denly rises before him as a ministering angel, in
viting him, in the name of friendship and sym
pathy, to abate for a season the stern aspect of
moral rectitude and unwelcome impersonality,
even to a forgetting of his common manhood. The
fire will descend and stimulate latent ambition to
an astonishing degree. The single path to the
Master will become twain, leading as surely back
to worldly prestige and exploitations, as onward to
Other-worldliness; and if the disciple has not al
ready definitely made his choice, there will be
cause for long delay, until the call of the soul
emerges clear and dominant over the alluring
voices of personal desire. Yet again, the descend
ing fire, wonderful and clarifying in its motion,
will invest the personality with something of its
own arresting magnetism and show the disciple
ways and means, unlooked for and intriguing, to
exploit the little ones who are weak and helpless
before its masterful influence. Never let it be that
the disciple will so use it. He will find no greater
hell, and no swifter fall into it.
The history of discipleship is not without its
record of failures. Power has sometimes been
[ 1 5 9 ]
sought in the name of the Master and for his ser-
vice, but the inquisition of it has proved too strong
for a faulty mechanism, and the disciple has fallen
in his own weakness before the portal of initia
tion. The tempter may be vanity; it may be sexual
gratification; it may be intellectual pride; it may
be other manifest weaknesses, only brought out
and emphasized under the inquisition of fire, and
which the Master in his compassion cannot con
done. Prevalent as these failings are in the world
of men, even adding influence to some in the com
mon way of life, in the disciple they appear as sor
rowful aberrations which disfigure and thwart the
whole purpose of his ministry. He may think
otherwise because of the veil of illusion which the
form of the temptation casts upon him. The cir
cumstances surrounding it may appear to have so
lawfully and unavoidably led to it, the setting in
which it appears may so effectually metamorphose
the deleterious aspects of it, that the issues are
confused in the disciple’s heart and the personal
dictate triumps. Nevertheless, there is the test,
and the novitiate proposes the exact training
whereby the heart shall know itself by the patient
[ 160]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
scrutiny of motives and the mind become appre-
hensive of the causes and effects of these through
the multiform intricacies of the technique unfolded
by discriminating experience in human contacts.
In my previous book on the technique I said
that I did not believe in the killing of ambition, as
generally understood by aspirants; that the idea
of slaying that which is the finished product of
past fervent ambition did not appeal to me. In its
connection with the theme then under con sider
tion I adhere to that statement. But in the present
view of the technique there is another aspect of
the matter to be mentioned. When the disciple
has worked his way to the point of recognition and
acceptance and enters upon what I have called
the cooperative group work of discipleship, he will
have to make a decisive choice between living over
again for his own personal satisfaction the ripe
product of past ambition which is now so power
fully influential in his consciousness, and re
nouncing this for the higher and impersonal work
to which his group affiliations invite him. I have
spoken of this as one of the most poignant stages
encountered during graduation in the technique.
[ 161 ]
And so I consider it. No sooner is the alignment
of the soul and personality established than the
hidden culture and ability of the past begins to
enter vigorously into the mind consciousness and
emphatically demands recognition. There is ample
data available among disciples to testify to the
truth of this fact. The two paths open to the
vision: the one, brilliant and inviting, from the
past to the present, revealing what has been hero
ically sought and hardly won in the realm of
mental achievement; the other, dimly sensed ahead,
the only guide thereon the disciple’s own light set
up, leading to a surrender or conversion of all to
the service of the Master. The swift play of the
two-edged sword of the inquisition of the descend
ing fire, divides the storied and speaking past from
the untrodden and virgin future that promises
technical comprehension and use of super-experi
ence. The disciple stands alone at this midway
point. Both paths are seen: the one offering per
sonal power and enviable reputation in the eyes
of men; the other, a passing selflessly into the hid
denness of subjective activity and a surrendering of
all powers and faculties to the silent leading of the
[ 162]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
divine voice that breathes forth from the deep re'
cesses of the flame. Once again, the aspirant may
think, in the access of his enkindled enthusiasm,
that a right choice would present no difficulty to
him. But the fire of the soul will test him to a
degree unknown to the unperturbed and reasoning
mind. It is a far different matter to remain in calm
possession of power and ability, to be exercised
and enjoyed freely to our own personal advantage
in any way we elect, without question or hind'
ranee, and, on the other hand, to have that pos'
session, not questioned or condemned, but the ex'
ercise and enjoyment of it diverted almost exclu'
sively to the service of others in world work. The
fire, working energetically in a powerful organiza'
tion, will make the choice not an easy one. I do
not say that a true disciple will fail to make a right
choice and without loss of time. The choice, I be'
lieve, will be made immediately it is presented:
but while the soul unhesitatingly takes the onward
path, the mind will dispute the justice of the re'
nunciation it is compelled to make. It will demand
to add further laurels to its past achievements, be'
cause they are seen to be so easily within reach.
C 1 6 3 ]
T H E T E C H n i^ JJE OF T H E DISCIPLE
It will protest that its personal satisfaction for
greater expression is surely allowable in conjunct
tion with its speculation into the unknown. And
the fuller the man, the more comprehensive the
experience that has been accumulated and is now
being released into consciousness through the pro-
cess of alignment, the more insistent will be this
demand and the protest almost pitiful in its in-
tensity.
I am not dealing here with theories, with in-
tellectual abstractions, but with the actual opera'
tion of the technique within the mind and heart
of the disciple. He is brought to trial before the
bar of the soul. The life of discipleship is at stake.
There are no advocates on either side. The dis
ciple stands alone before an invisible tribunal. It
is the inquisition of fire. If he can bear it and
pass on, it will be only upon the accumulated
knowledge and strength he has brought with him.
The portals of the temple remain hidden behind
the flame. He may even doubt their existence and
demand proof of them. There is no response, only
silence, from which his own voice must arise. “W e
have to know of what he may be capable":
[ 1 6 4 ]
TH E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
whether he will hold fast to the coveted flower of
the mind and add to its beauty and luxuriance
with intellectual pride and self'gratulation, or pass
on within the temple with ambition stilled by the
peace of devotion and with empty hands, that the
Master may place in them such instruments as he
sees fittest for the greater work before him. W hat'
ever the disciple thinks about having to make this
choice, however he may question with himself the
justice of it, a little reflection will reveal the per'
feet wisdom of it. The mind will continue to be
the greatest instrument in any work to be done,
but in dealing with phases of the technique in
others the ordinary faculties of the mind will prove
totally inadequate. It is only by making a right
choice to follow the call of the soul that extensions
of these faculties can be entrusted to the disciple.
These extensions open out new ranges of cognition
and enable him to sense vibrations and register
rhythms entirely outside the ordinary mental
level. He can never perfect the technique on that
level, nor attain to Masterhood upon it. The
technique is of the soul and spirit. The Master’s
inspiration derives from the superphysical. W hy
[ 16f ]
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
then should the disciple hesitate to pass on from
that with which he is familiar and a complete
master of, yet so relative in character, to that
divine tuition to which his whole training has
prompted him and which only the Master can im-
part? Blessed indeed is the disciple to whom the
inquisition comes in all its intensity and subtle
challenges in response to his consistent and sus-
tained petition. It is the Master’s solemn offer of
acceptance.
The choice is made. The disciple has proved his
impersonality and power of self' effacement. The
inquisition of fire has not slain ambition: it has re-
vealed a more excellent way to apply the fruits of
it. The fire of the mind no longer agitates and
craves for further conquests to hold as an isolated
possession for self-aggrandizement and worldly re
putation. The fire of the spirit permeates the
whole economy of the mortal man, bathing, tran
quillizing and healing the grieving nerves, stilling
the discordant voices of desire and transmuting
every adjunct of culture into a spiritual force for
its service. This is a major conquest of the tech
nique and surpasses anything hitherto achieved,
[ 166}
T H E T ECH N IQ UE O F T H E DISCIPLE
T H E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
for it places the disciple in a dominant position on
the spiritual plane. He has yet to prove his
strength in maintaining that position. The forms
of temptation he has stripped of their illusion and
mastered on the objective plane have been the
means by which he has attained this ascendency.
They reappear now to test him in a far more subtle
form. As a dominant and self-constituted spiritual
force working for evolution, he is a menace to
those psychic entities who are so interested in his
advance as to desire his defeat, and spare no means
to secure it. He will be subjected again and again
to psychic impulsion from the dark side of unseen
forces. They will endeavour to turn the disciple
aside from his chosen path by most ingenious de
vices of glamour and illusion. So insidious are
these attempts at any cost to thwart the disciple’s
progress through personalities and circumstances,
that he will need all the circumspection and wis
dom inculcated by his training in order to dis
criminate between deception and reality. This
point need not be elaborated here. It is true in the
experience of discipleship and merits special inves
tigation. One-pointed devotion and the power of
[ 167]
TH E T ECH N IQ UE OF T H E DISCIPLE
fearless challenge against all odds give the magical
key to the situation. The disciple will remember
the promise of the ritual: “The demons will not
dare to approach the place where you are; your
voice will make them tremble in the depths of the
abyss.” It is for the disciple to now demonstrate
all the fine technical qualities which, by the grace
of the Master, have been conferred upon him and,
through steadfast and patient onward living, evoke
the whole force of the soul to transcend every
hindrance and counteract every opposing influence
and initiate him into the presence of the Master.
V V V
[ 168]
Explanatory
TH E RO SICRUCIAN ORDER
V
^ ^ N T IC IP A T IN G questions which may be asked by
the readers of this book, the publishers wish to
announce that there is but one universal Rosicrucian Order
existing in the world today, united in its various juris-
dictions, and having one Supreme Council in accordance
with the original plan of the ancient Rosicrucian mani
festoes.
This international organization retains the ancient tra
ditions, teachings, principles, and practical helpfulness
of the Brotherhood as founded centuries ago. It is known
as the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, which name
is abbreviated for popular use into AMORC. The North
and South American jurisdiction of this Order maintains
National Headquarters at San Jose, California, with
branches distributed throughout the United States, Canada,
and Mexico. Those interested in knowing more of the
history and present day offerings of the Rosicrucians may
have a free copy of the book entitled, “The Secret Herit
age,” by sending a definite request to Fr ia r F. M. B.,
AMORC Temple, Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California.
[ 169]
V V V
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described
in the following pages, and which may be
purchased from the
RO SICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
Sa n Jo se , Ca l if o r n ia .
V V V
[ no]
V o l u m e I.
Rosicrucian Questions and A nsw ers
W ith Com plete History
of the Order
By Dr . H. Sp e n c e r Le w i s , F. R. C.
HIS volume contains the first complete, authentic history
of the Rosicrucian Order from ancient times to the present
day. The history is divided into two sections, dealing with the
traditional facts and the established historical facts, and is replete
with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and fascinating
incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference
and guide book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding
many mystical and occult subjects are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the
Rosicrucians were closed against any eyes but the high initiates.
Even editors of great encyclopedias were unable to secure the
weird, fascinating facts of the Rosicrucian activities in all parts
of the world. Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like
a story from the land of the “Arabian Nights,”
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions
dealing with the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes
of the Rosicrucian fraternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound
in silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
V
[ 171 ]
V o l u m e II.
Rosicrucian Principles for the
Home and Business
By Dr . H. Sp e n c e r Lew is. F. R. C.
V
THIS volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian
teachings as are applicable to the solution of the every-day
problems of life in business and in the affairs of the home. It
deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill health, the curing
of many of the common ailments, and the attainment of peace
and happiness as well as the building up of the affairs of life
that deal with financial conditions. The book is filled with
hundreds of practical points dealing especially with the problems
of the average business man or person in business employ. It
points out the wrong and right way for the use of metaphysical
and mystical principles in attracting business, increasing one’s
income, promoting business propositions, starting and bringing
into realization new plans and ideas, and the attainment of the
highest ambitions in life.
“Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business” is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its fourth edition,
having had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not
only among members of the organization, who have voluntarily
stated that they have greatly improved their lives through the
application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons
outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by busi
ness organizations and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk
cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
[ 172]
V o l u m e III.
The M ystical Life of Jesus
B y D r . H . Sp e n c e r Le w i s , F. R. C.
V
THIS is the book that thousands have waited for—the real
Jesus revealed at last! It was in preparation for a number
of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt to secure a
verification of the strange facts contained in the ancient Rosicru-
cian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities
in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts
relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion,
resurrection, and ascension will astound and inspire you. The
book contains many mystical symbols, fully explained, original
photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hunded pages with seventeen large
chapters, beautifully printed, bounded in purple silk, and stamped
in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every
student of mysticism and religion. It is one of the most talked-
about books ever written on the subject. Read it and be pre
pared for the discussion of it that you will hear among men and
women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.2?.
[ 173]
V o l u m e V.
“U n to Thee I G ran t . .
Revised by Sr i. Ra ma t h er io
V
'HIS is one of the rarest Oriental mystery books known. It
is translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and
Disciples of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago,
and was hidden in manuscript form from the eyes of the world
and given only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to
study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book con
taining the rarest writings and teachings known to man with
the exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been written
about the teachings and practices of the Masters of the Far East
and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever contained
the secret teachings found in this book. This book is divided
into many parts, each part containing a large number of sections
or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weak
nesses, sins, strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. AH are
treated in detail with illuminating simplicity'. The book is beau
tifully printed and bound with stiff cover, and contains also the
strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to secure this
marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
[
A T h o u san d T e ars of Y esterd ay s
By D r . H. Sp e n c e r Le w i s . F. R. C.
V
HERE is a book that wiil tell you more about the real (acts of
reincarnation than anything that was ever written. It is a
story of the soul, and explains in detail how the soul enters the
body and how it leaves, where it goes to and when it comes
back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Far East
and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into book form
as a story before this book was printed. Th at is why the book has
been translated into so many foreign languages and endorsed by
the mystics and adepts of India, Persia, Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — A lluring •
— Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to leave
it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic
principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to reincarnation
as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the incarnations
of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound with stiff cover, and worthy of
a place in anyone's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 8? cents.
V o l u m e V I.
t 1’ 5]
V o l u m e VII.
Se lf M ast e ry an d Fat e w ith the
Cy cles of Life
B y D r . H. Sp e n c e r L e w i s , F. R. C.
V
'HIS book is entirely different from any ever issued in
A America dealing with the secret periods in the life of each
man and woman wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain
periods to bring success, happiness, health, and prosperity into
our lives, and it likewise points out those periods which are not
favorable for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does
not deal with astrology or any system of fortune telling, but
presents a system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental
lands and which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One
reading of the book with its charts and tables will enable the
reader to see the course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone
to eliminate “chance” and “luck," to cast aside “ fate,” and
replace these with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs
throughout the years. There is no magic in its system, but it
opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a remark
able manner.
W ell printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to
match other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage
prepaid. $2.00.
[ 176]
V o l u m e VIII.
R o sicru cian M an u al
By D r . H. Sp e n c e r Le w i s , F. R. C.
V
HIS practical book contains not only extracts from the
Constitution of the Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete
outline and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and termi
nology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations of
the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects
taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of the
principles of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of
important characters connected with the work. There are also
special articles on the Great W hite Lodge and its existence, how
to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian Code of Life with
thirty laws and regulations, and a number of portraits of prom
inent mystics including Master K. H., the Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred
or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of Rosi
crucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary it con
tains.
The “Rosicrucian Manual’’ is of large size, well printed,
beautifully bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The
fifth edition has been enlarged and improved in many ways.
Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
[ 1 7 7 ]
V o l u m e IX.
M y stics at Pray er
By Ma n y Cih l a r , F. R. C., Austrian Philosopher and Mystic
V
T
HE first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the
renowned mystics and adepts of all ages.
The book, “Mystics at Prayer," explains in simple language
the reason of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws involved.
You come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and its full beauty
dawns upon you. W hatever your religious beliefs, this book
makes your prayers the application not of words, but of helpful,
divine principles. You will learn the infinite power of prayer.
Prayer is man's rightful heritage. It is the direct means of man's
communion with the infinite force of divinity.
“Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed
on art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages,
sent anywhere, postpaid, $1.00.
[ 178]
M ansions of the Soul
The Cosmic Conception
By Dr . H. Sp e n c e r Le w i s , F. R. C.
V
R
EINCARNATIO N ! The world's greatest disputed doctrine.
The belief in reincarnation has had millions of intelligent,
learned, and tolerant followers throughout the ages. Ringing
through the minds and hearts of students, mystics, and thinkers
have always been the words: “W hy Are W e Here?" Reincar
nation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred
literature and without verification. This book reveals, however,
in an astounding manner the many facts to support reincarnation.
Quotations from eminent authorities, from Biblical and Sacred
works substantiate reincarnation. This volume PROVES reincar
nation. It places it high above mere speculation. This book is
without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring, enlightening
book ever written on this subject. It is not a fiction story but a
step by step revelation of profound mystical laws. Look at some
of these fascinating, intriguing subjects:
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul; Does
Personality Survive Transition?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma
and Personal Evolution; Religion and Biblical View-points;
Christian References; Between Incarnations; Souls of Animals
and the "Unborn"; Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully
printed, neatly bound, stamped in gold; it is a valuable asset to
your library, economically priced. Price, per copy, postage pre
paid, only $2.00.
V o l u m e XI.
[ 179]
V o l u m e XII.
Lem uria — The Lost Continent
of the Pacific
B y W i s h a r S. C e r v e
V
BENEATH the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of for-
gotten civilizations. Swept by the tides, half buried in the
sands, worn away by terrific pressure, are the remnants of a
culture little known to our age of today. Where the mighty
Pacific now rolls in a majestic sweep of thousands of miles, there
was once a vast continent. This land was known as Lemuria, and
its people as Lemurians.
W e pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and
developments of today. W e call them modern, but these ancient
and long-forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of as
future possibilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science has
gradually pieced together the evidences of this lost race, and in
this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling chapters
the face of th . rvivors who have living
descendants today, is explained. Illustrations and explanations of
their mystic symbols, maps of the continent, and many ancient
truths and laws are contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird—
read this book. Remember, however, this book is not f ic t io n , but
based on facts, the result of extensive research. Does civilization
reach a certain height, and then retrograde? Is the culture and
progress of mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then
returning to start over again? These questions and many more
are answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living
descendants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at
the bottom of the Pacific. In the minds of these descendants
is the knowledge of the principles which in by-gone centuries
made their forbears builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, “Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is
beautifully bound, well printed, and contains many, many illus
trations. It is economically priced at $2.20, postpaid.
you have ever came to be swept from
[ 180]
The Technique of the M aster
The W ay of Cosmic Preparation
By Ra y m u n d An d r ea , F. R. C.
V
A
GUIDE to inner unfoldment! The newest and simplest
explanation for attaining the state of Cosmic Consciousness.
To those who have felt the throb of a vital power within, and
whose inner vision has at times glimpsed infinite peace and
happiness, this book is offered. It converts the intangible whispers
of self into forceful actions that bring real joys and accomplish
ments in life. It is a masterful work on psychic unfoldment.
It is well bound in cloth, with deckled and tinted edged paper.
Secure this treasure for yourself. Economically priced, postage
prepaid, at $1.85.
V o l u m e XIII.
[ 181 ]
V o l u m e XIV .
T h e M ystery an d Prophecy of
T h e Great Py ram id
By C h a r l e s S. Kn ig h t , D. D.
V
HERE is a book that will fascinate and astound you with its
vivid portrayal of one of the greatest mysteries of the ages—
The Great Pyramid. Its scientific construction, mystical symbol
ism, prophetic value, and the strangeness of its origin are so
admirably discussed and explained by the author. Dr. Charles S.
Knight, D. D., lecturer and theologian, that it easily enables one
to penetrate the cloud of mystery enveloping this miracle in stone.
For centuries, the pyramid, a man-made mountain, has stood as
a sentinel guarding the secret purposes of its builders. For years,
modern savants debated—was it a mighty tomb to aggrandize a
vain pharaoh, as were the lesser pyramids, or was it a temple of
learning, a silent tribute in unspoken eloquence of a wisdom long
since forgotten? Recent discoveries have confirmed the latter
opinion, and the ancient sciences stand revealed in their pro
fundity. Interpretation of the pyramid symbolism has revealed
with startling exactitude many of the prophecies contained in the
Christian Bible. You will be astonished as its mystical numerical
code prophesies great events to occur in the future.
Your library is incomplete without this exceptional book offer.
It has two hundred pages, illustrated with essential drawings and
charts, and is well-printed and bound with hard cover.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
[ 18 2 }
V o l u m e XV.
The Boo\ of Jasher
The Sacred Book Withheld
V
BY WHAT RIGHT has man been denied the words of the
prophets? Who dared expurge from the Holy Bible one of
its inspired messages? For centuries man has labored under the
illusion that there has been preserved for him the collected books
of the great teachers and disciples—yet one had been withheld—
“The Book of Jasher.”
Within the hallowed pages of the great Bible itself are ref-
erences to this lost book which have puzzled the devout and
students for centuries. As if by Divine decree, the Bible appears
to cry out to mankind that its sanctity had been violated, its truth
veiled, for we find these two passages exclaiming: "Is not this
written in the ‘Book of Jasher'—Joshua XIII;" “Behold, it is
written in the 'Book of Jasher'-—Samuel 1-18.”
Alcuin discovered this great lost book of the Bible written by
Jasher. He translated it into English in 800 A. D. Later it was
suppressed and then rediscovered in 1829, and once again sup
pressed.
But now we bring to you an actual Photographic Reproduction
of this magnificent work, page for page, line for line, unex
purgated. This enlightening work, bound in its original style, is
priced at only $2.00 per copy, postage paid.
[ 183 ]
HOW TO ORDER BOOKS
If your regular book dealer does not have these books
in stock, and you do not care to wait until he secures
them for you, you may save time by sending your order
direct, with remittance or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
Ro sic r u c ia n Pa r k , Sa n Jo se , Ca l if o r n ia , U. S. A.
[ 184]
