{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__smith___the_book_of_mormon_kirtland.pdf","mytitle":"The Book Of Mormon Kirtland","mylang":"de"}
BOOK OF MORMON:
AX ACCOUNT WRITTEN BY THE HAND OF MOR­
MON, UPON PLATES TAKEN FROM
Wherefore it is an abridgment of the record of the people of
Nephi, anil also ofthe Lamanites; written to the Lanutnitea,
who area remnant of the house of Israel', and also to Jew
and Gentile: written by way of commandment, and also by
the spirit of prophecy and of revelation. Written, and seal­
ed up, and hid up unto the L ord, that they might not be de­
stroyed; to come, forth by the gift and power of Goo unto the
interpretation thereof: sealed by the hand of Moroni, and
hid tip unto the L oro, to come forth in due time by the w ay
of Gentile; the interpretation thereof by the gift of Gon:
An abridgment taken from the book of Ether: also, which is a
record of the people of Jared; who were scattered at the time
the L ori* confounded the language of the people when they
were building a tower to get to heaven: which is to shew un­
to the remnant of the house of Israel what great things the
L ord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the
covenants ot the L ord, that they are not cast offforever, and
also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jest's is
the C h rist, the E ternal G od, manifesting himself unto all
nations. And now if there are faults, they are the mistakes
of men; wherefore condemn not the things of Gop, that ye
may be found spotless at the judgment seat"of C h rist.
THE PLATES OF NEPHI.
TRANSLATED BY
JOSEPH SMITH, Jr.
KIRTLA1VD, OHIO!
PRINTED BY 0. COWDERY & CO. FOR
F. F. PRATT AND J. OOODSON.
Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 195®,
by J oseph S mith, Jr., in the Clerk’s Office of the Northern
District of New York.
P R E F A C E .
T he publishers of the following volumes hav­
ing obtained leave to issue five thousand cop­
ies of the same, from those holding the copy­
rights, would respectfully notice a few items
for the benefit of the reader.
The 1830 edition of the book of Mormon
having some time since been distributed, the
pressing calls for the same, as well as the book
of Doctrine and Covenants, and the vast impor­
tance attached to their contents, have induced
the undersigned to seek the privilege of sup­
plying those calls by presenting, in one vol­
ume, both books, in a condensed form, render­
ing greater convenience to elders, and others,
who convey the same to different parts.
Individuals acquainted with book printing,
are aware of the numerous typographical er­
rors which always occur in manuscript edi­
tions. It is only necessary to say, that the
whole has been carefully re-examined and
compared with the original manuscripts, by
elder Joseph Smith, Jr. the translator of the
book of Mormon, assisted by the present print­
er, brother O. Cowdery, who formerly wrote the
greatest portion of the same, as dictated by
brother Smith.
Expecting, as we have reason to, that this
book will be conveyed to places which circum­
stances will render it impossible for us to visits
VI
and bo perused by thousands whose faces we
may never see on this* side of eternity, we can­
not consistently let the opportunity pass, with­
out expressing our sincere conviction of its
truth, and the great and glorious purposes it
must eflcct, in the restoration of the house of
Israel, and the ushering in of that blessed day
when the knowledge of God will cover the
earth, and one universal peace pervade ali
people.
PARLEY P. PRATT,
JOHN GOODSON.
Kirti.and, Ohio, 1837.
THE FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI:
HIS REIGN AND MINISTRY.
CHAPTER 1.
An account of Lehi and his■
wife Sariah, and his four
sons, being coiled, (beginning at tiie eldest,) Laman,
Lemuel, Haiti, and Nephi. The Lord warns Lehi to
depart out of the Land of Jerusalem, because he proph-
esicth unto the people concerning their iniipiity; and
they seek to destroy his life. He tahetk three day’s
journey into the wilderness with his family. Nephi
tahetk his brethren and returns to the land of Jerusa­
lem after the record of the Jews. The account of their
sufferings. They tuke the daughters of ishmael to
wife. They take their families and depart into the
wilderness. Their sufferings and afflictions in the
wilderness. The course of their travels. They come
to the large waters. Nephi’s brethren rebelleth against
him. He confoundtlk them, and buildeth a s/iip.—
They call the place Bountiful. They cross the large
waters into the promised laud, fa. This is according
to the account of Nephi; or, in other words, 1 Nephi
wrote this record.
I, N e ph i, having been bora of goodly parents, there­
fore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my
lather; and have seen many afflictions in the course
of nvy days—nevertheless, having been highly favored
of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a great
knowledge ol the goodness and the mysteries of God,
therefore I make a record of my proceedings in my
days; yea, I make a record in the language of my
father, which consists of the learning of the Jews and
the language of the Egyptians. And 1 know that the
record which I make is true; and I make it with mine
own hand; and I make it according to my knowledge.
For it came to pass, in the commencement of the
first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah,
(my father Lehi having dwelt at Jerusalem in all his
days;) and in that same year there came many proph- I
,
*
*
*
5
'
ets, prophesying unto the people, that they must re­
pent, or the great city Jerusalem must be destroyed.
8 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
Wherefore it came to pass, that my father Lehi, as he
went forth, prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all
his heart, in behalf ofhis people.
And it came to pass, as he prayed unto the Lord,
there came a pillar ol fire and dwelt upon a rock before
him; and he saw and heard much; and because of the
things which he saw and heard, he did quake and
tremble exceedingly.
And it came to pass that he returned to his own
house at Jerusalem; and he cast himself upon his bed,
being overcome with the spirit and the things which
he had seen; and being thus overcome with the spirit,
he was carried away in a vision, even that lie saw the
heavens open, and lie thought he saw God sitting up­
on his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses
of angels in the attitude of singing and praising their
God.
And it came to pass that he saw one descending oul of
the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his lustre was
above that of the sun at noon-day; and he also saw
twelve others following him, and their brightness did ex­
ceed that of the stars in the firmament; and they came
down and went forth upon the face of the earth; and
the first came and stood before my father, and gave
unto him a book, and bade him tliut he should read.
And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled
with the spirit of the Lord, and he read, saying, Wo,
wo unto Jerusalem! for I have seen thine abomina­
tions; yea, and many tilings did my father read con­
cerning Jerusalem—that it should be destroyed, and
the inhabitants thereof, many should perish by the
sword, and many should be carried aw ay captive into
Babylon.
Ar.d it came to pass that when my father had read
and saw many great and marvellous things, he did ex­
claim many things unto the Lord; such as, great and
marvellous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty!
Thy throne is high in the heavens, and thy power, and
goodness, and mercy are overall the inhabitants of the
earth; and because thou art merciful, thou wilt not
suffer those who comeunto thee that they shall perish!
And after this manner was the language of my father
in the praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and
his whole heart was filled, because of the things which
he had seen; yea, which the Lord had shewn unto
him. And now I, Nephi, do not tnake,& full account
of the things which my father hath written, for he
FIRST BOOK OF NKFHI. 9
lath written many things which he saw in visions and
in dreams; and he also hath written many things
which he prophesied and spake unto his children, of
which I shall not make a full account; but I shall make
an account of my proceedings in ray days—
-Behold I
make an abridgement of the record of ray father, upon
plates which 2 have made with mine own hands;
wherefore, after I have abridged the record of my fath­
er, then will I make an account of mine own life.
Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after
the Lord had shewn so many marvellous things unto
my father Lehi, yea, concerning the destruction of Je­
rusalem, behold he went forth among the people, and
began to prophesy and to declare unto them concern­
ing the things which he had both seen and heard.
And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him be­
cause of the things which he testified of them; for he
truly testified of their wickednes and their abomina­
tions; and he testified that the things which he saw
and heard, and aJso the things which he read in the
book, manifested plainly of tne coming of a Messiah,
and also the redemption of the world.
And when the Jews heard these things, they were
angry with him; yea, even as with the prophets of
old, whom they had cast out and stoned and slain;
and they also sought his life, that they might take it
away. But behold, I, Nephi, will shew unto you that
the tender mercies of the Lord are over all those whom
he hath chosen, because of their faith, to make them
mighty even unto the power of deliverance.
For behold it came to pass that the Lord spake unto
my father, yea, even in a dream, and said unto him,
blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things which
thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful
and declared unto this people the things which I com­
manded thee, behold they seek to take away thy life.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my
father, even in a dream, that he Bhould take his family
and depart inJo the wilderness. And it came to pass
that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord, where­
fore he did as the Lord commanded him.
And it came to pass that he departed into the wild­
erness. And he left his house, and the land of his iiv
heritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his pre­
cious things, and tomenothing with him saveit were his
family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into
the wilderness; and he came down by the borders*near
10 FIRST BOOK OF H FPH I.
the shore of the Red Sea: and he travelled in the
wilderness in the borders which are nearer the Red
Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness with his fam­
ily, which consisted of my mother, Sariah, and my
elder brothers, who were Laman, Lemuel and Sam.
And it came to pass that when he had travelled
three days in the wilderness, he pitched his tent in a
valley by the side of a river of water. And it came to
pass that lie built an altar of stones, and made an of­
fering unto the Lord, and gave thanks onto the Loid
our God. And it came to pass that lie called the name
of the river Laman, and it emptied into the Ked Sea;
and the valley was in the borders near the mouth
thereof.
And when my father saw that the waters of the riv­
er emptied into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake
unto Laman, saying, O that thou inightest be like un­
to this river, continually running into the fountain of
all righteousness. And he also spake unto Lemuel:
O that thou inightest be like unto this valley, firm,
and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the command­
ments of the Lord. Now this he spake because of the
stiffneckednoss of Laman and Lemuel; for behold they
did murmur in many things against their lather, be­
cause he was a visionary man, and had led them out
of the land of Jerusalem, to leave the land of their in­
heritance, and their gold, and their silver, and their
precious things, to perish in the wilderness. And
this they said he had done because of the loolish im­
aginations of his heart. And thus Laman and Lem­
uel, being the eldest, did murmur against their father.
And they did murmur because they knew not the deal­
ings of that God who had created them. Neither did
they believe that Jerusalem, that great city, could be
destroyed according to the words of the prophets.—
And they were like unto the Jews, who were at Jeru­
salem, who sought to take away the life of my father.
And it came to pass that my father did speak unto
them in the valley of Lemuel, with power, being filled
with the spirit, until their frames did shake before him.
And he did confound them, that they durst not utter
against him; wherefore they did as he commanded
them. And iny father dwelt in a tent.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceeding
young, nevertheless being large in stature, and also
having great desires to know of the mysteries of God,
wherefore I did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did
FIRST BOOK OF KEPH I. 11
visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all r
the words which had been spoken by my father; where­
fore 1did not rebel against him like unto my broth­
ers. And I spake unto Sam, making known unto him
the tilings which the Lord had manifested unto me by
his Holy Spirit.
And it came to pass that he believed in my words;
but behold Hainan and Lemuel would not hearken un­
to my words: And being grieved because of the hard­
ness of their hearts, 1 cried unto tiie Lord for them.
And it came to pass tiiat the Lord spake unto me,
saying: blessed art thou, Nephi, because of thy faith,
for thou hast sought me diligently, with lowliness of
heart. And inasmuch as ye shall keep my command­
ments, ye shall prosper, and shall be led to a land of
promise; yea, even a land which 1 have prepared for
you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands.
And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel against thee,
they shall be cut oft’ from the presence of the Lord.
And inasmuch as thou slialt keep my commandments,
thou shall he made a ruler and a teacher over thy
brethren. For heboid, in that day that they shall re­
bel against me, 1 will curse them even with a sore
curse, and they shall have no power over thy seed, ex­
cept they shall rebel against me also. And if it so be
that they rebel against me, they shall be a scourge unto
thy seed, to stir them up in the ways of remembrance.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from
speaking with the Lord, to the tent of my father.—
And it came to pass that he spake unto me, saying:
Behold I have dreamed a dream, in the which the Lord
hath commanded me that thou and thy brethren shall
return to Jerusalem. For behold, Laban hath the re­
cord of the Jews, and also a genealogy of thy forefa­
thers, and they are engraven upon plates of brass*—
Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me that thou
and thy brothers should go unto the house of Laban,
and seek the records, and bring them down hither in­
to the wilderness. And now, behold, thy brothers
murmur, saying,' it is a hard thing which I have re­
quired of them; but behold I have not required it of
them, but it is a commandment of the Lord. There­
fore go my son, and thou slialt be favored of the Lord,
because thou hast not murmured. s
. r
, And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my
father, I will go and do the things which the Lotd
hath commanded, for 1 know that the Lord giveth no
12 FIRST ROOK OF NEPHI.
commandments unto the children of men, save he shall
prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the
thing which he commandeth them.
And it came to pass that when my father had heard
these words, he was exceeding glad, for he knew that
I had been blessed of the Lord. And I, Nephi, and
my brethren, took our journey in the wilderness with
our tents, to go up to the land of Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that when we had come up to
the land of Jerusalem, I and my brethren did consult
one with another; and we cast lots who of us should
go in unto the house of Laban. And it came to pass
that the lot fell upon Laman; and Laman went in un­
to the house of Laban, and he talked with him as he
sat in his house. And he desired of Laban the re­
cords which were engraven upon the plates of brass,
which contained the genealogy of my father.
And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry,
and thrust him out from his presence; and he would
not that he should have the records. Wherefore he
said unto him, behold thou art a robber, and I will
slay thee. But Laman fled out ol his presence, and
told the things which Laban had done, unto us. And
we began to be exceeding sorrowful, and my brethren
were about to return unto my father in the wilderness.
But behold 1 said unto them, that as the Lord liveth,
and as we live, we will not go down unto our father in
the wilderness, until we have accomplished the thing
which the Lord hath commanded us. Wherefore let
us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the
Lord; therefore let us go down to the land of our fath­
er’s inheritance, for behold he left gold and silver,
and all manner of riches. And all this he hath done, be­
cause of the commandments of the Lord: for lie know­
ing that Jerusalem must be destroyed, because of the
wickedness of the people.
For behold, they have rejected the words of the
prophets. Wherefore if my rather should dwell in the
land after he hath been commanded to flee out of the
land, behold he would also perish. Wherefore it must
needs be that he flee out of the land. And behold it
is wisdom in God that we should obtain these records,
that we may preserve unto our children the language of
our fathers; and also that we may preserve unto them
the words which have been spoken by the mouth of
all the holy prophets, which have been delivered unto
FIRST BOOS OF NEFHI> 13
them by the spirit and power of God, since the world
began, even down unto this present time.
And it came to pass that after this manner of lan­
guage did I persuade my brethren, that they might be
faithful in keeping the commandments of God. And
it came to pass that we went down to the land of our
inheritance, and we did gather together our gold, and
our silver, and our precious things. And after we had
gathered these things together, we went up again unto
the house of Laban.
And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban,
and desired him that he would give unto us the re­
cords which were engraven upon the plates of brass,
for which we would give unto him our gold, and our
silver, and all our precious things.
And it came to pass that when Laban saw our prop­
erty, and that it was exceeding great, he did lust after
it, insomuch that he thrust us out, and sent his serv­
ants to slay us, that he might obtain our property.
And it came to pass that we did flee before the serv­
ants of Laban, and we were obliged to leave behind
our property, and it fell into the hands of Laban.
And it came to pass that we fled into the wilder­
ness. and the servants of Laban did not overtake us,
and we hid ourselves in the cavity of a rock. And it
came to pass that Loman was angry with me, and al­
so with my father; and also was Lemuel; for he
hearkened unto the words of Laman. Wherefore La-
man and Lemuel did speak many hard words unto us,
their younger brothers, and they did smite us even
with a rod.
And it came to pass as they smote us with a rod,
behoid an angel of the Lord came and stood before
them, and he spake unto them, saying, why do ye
smite your younger brother with a rod? Know ye
not that the Lord hath chosen him to be a ruler over
you, and this because of your iniquities? Behold ye
shall go up to Jerusalem again, and the Lord will de­
liver Laban into your hands. And after the angel had
spoken unto us, be departed. And after the angel
had departed, Laman and Lemuel again began to mur­
mur, saying, how is it possible that the Lord will de­
liver Laban into our hands? Behold he is a mighty
man, and he can command fifty, yea, even he can slay
fifty; then why not us?
And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren,
saying, let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us
14 KIKST HOOK OK NKPH1>
be faitliful in keeping the commandments of the Lord;
for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why
not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than
his tens of thousands. Therefore let us go up; let us
be strong like unto Moses: for he truly spake unto the
waters of the lied Sea, and they divided hither and
thither, and our fathers came through out of captivity
on dr}' ground, and the armies of Pharaoh did follow
and were drowned in the waters of the Red Sea. Now
behold ye know that this is true; and ye also know
that au'angcl hath spoken unto you, wherefore ran ye
doubt'! Let us go up; the Lord is able to deliver us,
even as our fathers, and to destroy Laban, even as the
Egyptians.
Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet
wroth, and did still continue to murmur; nevertheless
they did follow me up until we came without the walls
of Jerusalem. Ami it was by night; and I caused that
they should hide themselves without the walls, And
after they had hid themselves, I, Nephi, crept into
the city ami went forth towards the house of Laban.
And I was led by the spirit, not knowing beforehand
the things which 1 should do. Nevertheless 1 went
forth, and as I came near unto the house of Laban, I
beheld a man, ami he had fallen to the earth before me,
for he was drunken with wine, And when I came to
him, I found that it was Laban. And I beheld his
sword, and I drew it forth from the sheath thereof, and
the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the workman­
ship thereof was exceeding tine; and 1saw that the
blade thereof was of the most precious steel.
And it came to pass that 1 was constrained by the
spirit that 1 should kill Laban; but 1 said in my heart,
never at, any time have 1shed the blood of man, and I
shrunk and would that 1 might not slay him. And
the spirit said unto me again, behold the Lord hath
delivered him into thy hands; yea, and I also knew
that he had sought to take away mine own life; yea,
and lie would not hearken unto the commandments of
the Lord; and he also had taken away our property.'
And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me
again, slay him, for the Lord hath delivered him into
thy hands. Behold the Lord slayeth the wicked to
bring forth his righteous purposes; It is better that
one man should perish, than that a nation should
dwindle and perish in unbelief. •n
* >•. n.-£ •
. <;/ o? e... s-r.
FIRST BOOK OF N EPH I. 15
And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I
remembered the words of the Lord which he spake un­
to me in the wilderness, saying, that inasmuch as thy
seed shall keep my commandments, they shall prosper
in the land of promise. Yea, and I also thought that
they could not keep the commandments of the Lord
according to the law of Moses, save they should have
the law. And I also knew that the law was engraven
upon the plates of brass. And again—I knew that
the Lord had delivered Laban into my hands'for this
cause, that I might obtain the records according to his
commandments. Therefore I did obey the voice oi
the spirit, and took Laban by the hair of the head, and
I smote off his head with his own sword.
And after I had smitten off his head with his own
sword, I took the garments of Laban and put them
upon mine own body; yea, even every whit; and I
did gird on his armor about my loins. And after I
had done this, I went forth unto the treasury of La­
ban. And as 1went forth towards the treasury of Laban,
behold 1 saw the servant of Laban who bad the keys
of the treasury. And I commanded him in the voice
of Laban, that be should go with me into the treasu­
ry; and he supposed ine to be his master, Laban, for
he beheld the garments, and also the sword girded
about my loins. And he spake unto me concerning
the elders of the Jews, he knowing that his master
Laban had been out by night among them. And I
spake unto him as if it had been Laban. And I also
spake unto him that 1 should carry the engravings
which were upon the plates of brass, to my elder breth­
ren, who were without the walls. And 1 also bade
him that he should follow me. And he supposing that
I spake of the brethren of the church, and that I was
truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did
follow me. And he spake unto me many times con­
cerning the elders of the Jews, as I went forth unto
my brethren, who were without the walls.
And it came to pass that when Laman saw me, he
was exceedingly frightened, and also Lemuel and
Sam. And they fled from before my presence; for
they supposed it was Laban, and that he had slain me,
and had sought to take away their lives also.
Aud it came to pass that I called after them, and
they did hear me; wherefore they did cease to flee
from my presence. And it came to pass that when
the sevant of Laban beheld my brethren, he began to
16 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
tremble, and was about to flee from before me and re­
turn to the city of Jerusalem.
And now 1, Nephi, being a man large in stature,
and also having received much strength of the Lord,
therefore I did*seize upon the servart of Laban, and
held him, that he should not flee.
And it came to pass that I spake with him, that if
he would hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth
and as 1 live, even so that if he would hearken unto
our words, we would spare his life. And I spake un­
to him, even with an oath, that he need not fear; that
he should be a free man like unto us, if he would go
down in the wilderness with us. And I also spake
unto him, saying, surely the Lord hath commanded
us to do this thing, and shall we not be diligent in
keeping the commandments of the Lord? Therefore,
if thou wilt go down into the wilderness to my father,
thou shalt have place with us.
And it came to pass that Zoram did lake courage at
the words which 1 spake. Now Zoram was the name
of the servant; and he promised that he would go
down into the wilderness unto my father. And he al­
so made an oath unto us, that he would tarry with us
from that time forth. Now we were desirous that he
should tarry with us for this cause, that the Jews
might not know concerning our flight into the wilder­
ness, lest they should pursue us and destroy us.
And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an
oath unto us, our fears did cease concerning him.—
And it came to pass that we took the plates of brass
and the servant of Laban, and departed into the wild­
erness, and journeyed unto the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that after we had came down
into the wilderness unto our father, behold he was fill­
ed with joy, and also my mother, Sariah, was exceed­
ing glad, for she truly had mourned because of us; for
she had supposed that we had perished in the wilder­
ness; and Bhe also had complained against my father,
telling him that he was a visionary man; saying, be­
hold thou hast led us forth from the land of our inher­
itance, and my eons are no more, and we perish in
the wilderness. And after this manner of language
had my mother complained against my father.
And it had came to pass that my father spake onto
her saying, I know that I am a visionary man; for if
I had not seen the things of God in a vision, I should
not have known the goodness of God, but had tarried
FlftSl iitJUK OF JiEl’Hl. 17
at Jerusalem and had perished with my brethren. But
behold, 1have ootained a land of promise, in the which
things I do rejoice; yea, and I know that the Lord will
deliver my sons out of the hands^of Laban, and bring
them down again unto us in the wilderness. And a£
ter this manner of language did my father Lein com­
fort my mother Sariah, concerning us, while v.e jour-
nied in the wilderness up to the land of Jerusalem, to
obtain the record of the Jews.
And when we had returned to the tent of my father,
behold their joy was full, and my mother was com­
forted; and she spake, saying, now I know of a surety
that the Lord hath commanded my husband to flee in­
to the wilderness; yea, and I also know of a surely
that the Lord hath protected my sons and delivered
them out of the hands of Laban, and gave them power
whereby they could accomplish the thing which the
Lord hath commanded them. And after this manner
of language did she speak.
And it came to pass that they did rejoice exceeding­
ly, and did offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto the
Lord; and they gave thanks unto the God of Israel.
And after they had given thanks unto the God of Is­
rael, my father Lehi took the records which were en­
graven upon the plates of brass, and he did search
them from the beginning. Ami he beheld that they
did contain the five books of Moses, which gave an
account of-the creation of the world, and also of Adam
and Eve, who were our first parents; and also a record
of the Jews from therbcginning, even down to the
commencement of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Ju­
dah; and also the prophecies of the holy prophets,
from the beginning, even down to the commencement
of the reign of Zedekiah; and also many prophecies
which have been spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah.
And it came to pass that my father Lehi also found
upon the plates of brass, a genealogy of his fathers;
wherefore he knew that he was a descendant of Joseph;
yea, even that Joseph who was the son of Jacob, who
was sold into Egypt, and who was preserved by the
hand of the Lord, that he might preserve his father
Jacob and all his household fi^m perishing with fam­
ine. And they were also led out of captivity and out
of the land of Egypt, by that same God who had pre­
served them. And thus my lather Lehi did discover
the genealogy of his fathers. And Laban ako was a
18 FIRST BOOK OF KEPH l.
descendant of Joseph, wherefore he and his fathers had
kept the records.
And now when my father saw ail these things, he
was filled with the spirit, and began to prophesy con­
cerning his seed; that these plates of brass should go
forth unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people
who were of his seed. Wherefore he said that these
plates of brass should never perish; neither should they
be dimmed any more by time. And he prophesied
many tilings concerning his seed.
And it came to pass that thus far I and my father
had kept the commandments wherewith the Lord had
commanded us. And we had obtained the record
which the Lord had commanded us, and searched them
and found that they were desirable; yea, even of great
worth unto us, insomuch that we could preserve the
commandments ofthe Lord unto our children. Where-
fore’it was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry
them with us, as we journied in the wilderness to­
wards the land of promise.
CHAPTER II.
A nd now I, N’plii, do not give the genealogy of my
fathers in this part of my record; neither at any lime
shall I give it alter upon these plates which I am wri­
ting; for it is given in the record which has been kept
by my father; wherefore 1donot write it in this work.
For it sufliceth me to say, that we are a descendant of
Joseph. And it niattereth not to me that 1 arn par­
ticular to give a full account of all the things of my
father, for they cannot be written upon these plates,
for I desire the room that I may write of the tilings of
God. For the fullness of mine intent is that I may
persuade men to come unto the God of Abraham, and
the God of Isaac, a.id the God of Jacob, and be saved.
Wherefore the things which are pleasing unto the
world, I do not write, hut the things which are pleas­
ing unto God and unto those who are not of the world.
Wherefore I shall give commandment unto my seed,
tiiat they shall not occupy these plates with things
which are not of worth unto the children of men.
FIRST BOOK OF NEPH I.
And now I would that ye might know, that after
my father Lehi had made an end of prophesying con­
cerning his seed, it came to pass that the Lord spake
unto him again, sayjng, that it was not meet for him,
Lehi, that he should take his family into the wilder­
ness alone; but that his sons should take daughters to
wife, that they might raise up seed unto the Lord in
the land of promise.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him
that I, Nephi, and my brethren, should again return
unto the land of Jerusalem, and bring down Ishmael
and his family into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did again, with
my brethren, go forth into the wilderness to go up to
Jerusalem. And it came to pass that we went up un­
to the house of Ishmael, and we did gain favor in the
sight of Ishmael, insomuch that we did speak unto
him the words of the Lord.
And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the
heart of Ishmael, and also his household, insomuch
that they took their journey with us down into the
wilderness to the tent of our father. And it came to
pass that as we journied in the wilderness, behold,
Laman and Lemuel, and two of the daughters of Ish­
mael, and the two sons of Ishmael, and their families,
did rebel against us; yea, against I, Nephi, and Sam,
and their father Ishmael, and his wife, and his three
other daughters.
And it came to pass in the which rebellion, they
were desirous to*, return unto the land of Jerusalem.
And now I, Nephi, being grieved for the hardness of
their hearts, therefore I spake unto them, saying; yea,
even unto Laman and unto Lemuel, behold' thou art
mine elder brethren; and how is it that ye are so hard
in your hearts, and so blind in your minds, that ye have
need that I, your younger brother, should speak unto
you, yea, and set an example for you? How is it that
ye have not hearkened unto the word of the Lord?
How is it that ye have forgotten that ye have seen an
angel of the Lord? Yea, and how is it that ye have
forgotten what great things the Lord hath done for us,
in delivering us out of the hands of Laban, and also
that we should obtain the record? Yea, and how, is it
that ye have forgotten that the Lord is able to do all
things, according to his will, for the children of men, j
if it so he that they exercise faith in him: wherefore
let us be faithful to him; And if it so be that we are
19
20 f ir s t b o o k or k e f h i .
faithful to him, we shall obtain the land of promise;
and ye shall know at some hiture period, that the
word of the Lord shall be fulfilled, concerning the de­
struction of Jerusalem; for all things which the Lord
hath spoken concerning the destruction of Jerusalem,
must be fulfilled. For behold, the spirit of the Lord
ceaseth soon to strive with them; for behoid, they have
rejected the prophets, and Jeremiah have they cast in­
to prison. And they have sought to take away the
life of my father, insomuch that they have driven him
out of the land.
Now behold, I say unto you, that if ye will return
unto Jerusalem, ye shall also perish with them. And
now, if ye have choice, go up to the land, and remem­
ber the words which I speak unto you, that if ye go,
ye will also perish; for thus the spirit of the Lord eon-
straineth me that I should speak.
And it came to pass that when I, Nephi, had spoken
these words unto my brethren, they were angry with
me. And it came to pass that they did lay their hands
upon me—for behold, they were exceeding wroth—
and they did bind me with cords, for they sought to
take away my life, that they might leave me in the
wilderness, to be devoured by wild beasts.
But it came to pass that 1 prayed unto the Lord,
saying, O Lord, according to my faith which is in thee,
wilt thou deliver me from the hands of my brethren;
yea, even give me strength that I may burst these
bands with which I am bound.
And it came to pass that when I had said these
words, behold, the bands wore loosed from off my
hands and feet, and I stood before my brethren, and I
spake unto them again. And it came to pass that they
were angry with me again, and sought to lay hands
upon me; but behold, one of the daughters of Ishmael,
yea, and also her mother, and one of the sons of Ish­
mael, did plead with my brethren, insomuch that they
did soften their hearts; and they did cease striving to
take away my life. *
And it came to pass that they were sorrowful, be­
cause of their wickedness, insomuch that they did bow
down before me, and did plead with me, that I would
forgive them of the thing that they had done against
me.
And it came to pass that I did frankly forgive them
all that they had done, and I did exhort them that they
would pray unto the Lord their God, for forgiveness.
FIRST BOOK OF S E P H I. 21
And it came to pass that they did so. And after they
had done praying unto the Lord, we did again travel
on our journey toward the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that we did come down unto
the tent of our father. And after 1 and my brethren,
and all the house oflshmael, had come down unto the
tent of my father, they did give thanks unto the Lord
their God: and they did offer sacrifice and burnt offer­
ings unto him.
And it came to pass that we had gathered together
all manner of seeds of every kind; both oi grain and of
every kind, and also of the seeds of fruits of every
kind. And it came to pass that while my father tarried
in the wilderness, he spake unto us, saying, behold, I
have dreamed a dream; or, in other words, lliave seen
a vision. And behold, because of the thing which 1
have seen, I have reason to rejoice in the Lord because
of Nephi, and also of Sam; for I have reason to sup­
pose that they, and also many of their seed, will be
saved. But behold, Laman and Lemuel, I fear ex­
ceedingly because of you: for behold, me thought I
saw in my dream, a dark and dreary wilderness.
And it came to pass that I saw a man, and he was
dressed in a white robe: and he came and stood before
me. And it came to pass that he spake unto me, and
bade me follow him. And it came to pass that as I
followed him I beheld myself that I was in a dark and
dreary waste. And after I had travelled for the space
of many hours in darkness, I began to pray unto the
Lord, that he would have mercy on me, according to
the multitude of his tender mercies.
And it came to pass after I had prayed unto the
Lord, I beheld a large and spacious field. And it came
to pass that I beheld a tree, whose fruit was desirable,
to make one happy.
And it came toipass that I did go forth, and partake
of the fruit thereof: and I beheld that it was most
sweet, above all that I ever before tasted. Yea, and I
beheld that the fruit thereofS
was white, to exceed all
the whiteness that I had ever seen. And as I partook
of the fruit thereof, it filled my soul with exceeding
great joy; wherefore, I began to be desirous that my
family should partake of it also; for I knew that it was
desirable above all other fruit. And as I cast my eyes
round about, that perhaps I might discover my fhmily
also, I beheld a river of water; and it ran along, and it
was near the tree of whieh I was partaking the fruit.
22 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
And I looked to behold from whence it came; and I
saw the head thereof a little way off; and at the head
thereof, I beheld your mother Bariah, and Sam, and
Nephi; and they stood as if they knew not whither
they should go.
And it came to pass that I beckoned unto them; and
I also did say unto them, with a loud voice, that they
should come unto me, and partake of the fruit, which
was desirable above all other fruit.
And it came to pass that they did come unto me,
and partake of the fruit also. And it came to pass
that 1 was desirous that Laman and Lemuel should
come and partake of the fruit also; wherefore, I cast
mine eyes towards the head of the river, that perhaps
I might see them.
And it came to pass that I saw them, but they would
not come unto me. And 1 beheld a rod of iron; and
it extended along the bank of the river, and led to the
tree by which I stood. And I also beheld a straight
and narrow path, which came along by the rod of iron,
even to lire tree by which I stood; and it also led by
the hekd of the fountain, nnto a large and spacious
field, as if it had been a world; and 1 saw numberless
concourses of people; many of whom were pressing
forward, that they might obtain the path which led
unto the tree by which I stood.
And it came to pass that they did come forth, and
commence in the path which led to the tree. And it
came to pass that there arose a mist of darkness; yea,
even an exceeding great mist of darnness, insomuch
that they who had commenced in the path, did lose
their way, that they wandered off and were lost.
And it came to pass that I beheld others pressing
forward; and they came forth, and caught hold of the
end of the rod of iron; and they did press forward
through the mist of darkness, clinging to the rod of
iron, even until they did come forth and partake of the
fruit of the tree. And after they had partaken of the
fruit of the tree, they did cast their eyes about as if
they were ashamed. And I also cast my eyes round
about, and beheld, on the other side of the river of wa­
ter, a great and spacious building; and it stood as it
were in the air,' high above the earth; and it was filled
with people, both old and young, both male and fe­
male; and their manner of dress was exceeding fine;
f and they were in the attitude ofmocking and pointing
v their fingers towards those who had come at, and were
FIRST BOOR OF R B PH I. 23
partaking of the fruit. And after they had tasted of
the fruit, they were ashamed, because of those that
were scoffing at them; and they fell away into forbid­
den paths and were lost.
And now I, Nephi, do not speak all the words ofmy
father. But to be short in writing, behold, he saw
other multitudes pressing forward; and they came and
caught hold of the end of the rod of iron; and they
did press their way forward, continually holding fast
to the rod of iron, until they came forth and fell down
and partook of the fruit of the tree. And he also saw
other multitudes, feeling their way towards that great
and spacious building.
And it came to pass that many were drowned in the
depths of the fountain; and many were lost from his
view, wandering in strange roads. And great was the
multitude that did enter into that strange building.—
And after they did enter into that building, they did
point the finger of scorn at me, and those that were
partaking of the fruit also; but we heeded them not.
These are the words of my father: For as many as
heeded them, had fallen away. And Lamanand Lem­
uel partook not of the fruit, said my father.
And it came to pass after my father had spoken all
the words of his dream or vision, which were many, he
said unto us, because of these things which he saw in
a vision, he.exceedingly feared for Latnan and Lem­
uel; yea, he feared lest they should be cast off from
the presence of the Lord; and he did exhort them then
with all the feeling of a tender parent, that they would
hearken to his words, that, perhaps the Lord would
be merciful to them, and not cast them off; yea, my
father did preach unto them.
And after he had preached unto them, and also -
prophesied unto them of many things, he bade them'**
to keep the commandments of the Lord; and he did *
cease speaking unto them. And all these things did
my father see, and hear, and speak, as he dwelt in a
tent, in the valley of Lemuel; and also a great many
more things, which cannot be written upon these plates.
And now, as I have spoken concerning these plates,
behold, they are not the plates upon which I make a
full account of the history of my people; for the plates
upon which I make a full account ofmy people, I have
given the ‘name of Nephi; wherefore, they are called
the plates of Nephi, after mine own name; and thess
plates also, are called the plates ofNepfci,
24 FIRST BOOK OF SK PB I.
Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of
the Lord, that I should make these plates, for the spe­
cial purpose that there should be an account engraven
of the ministry of my oeople. Upon the other plates
should be engraven an account of the reign of the
kings, -and the wars and contentions of my people;
wherefore, these plates are for the more part of the
ministry; and the other plates are for the more part of
the reign of the kings, and the Tars, and contentions
of my people. Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded
me to make these plates, for a wise purpose in him;
which purpose I know not. But the Lord knoweth
all things from the beginning; wherefore, he prepareth
a way to accomplish all his works among the children
of men; for behold, he hath all power unto the fulfil­
ling of all his words. And thus it is. Amen.
CHAPTER III.
And now I, Ncphi, proceed to give an account upon
these plates, of m3
' proceedings, ami my reign and
ministry; wherefore, to proceed with mine account, I
must speak somewhat of the things of my father, and
also of my brethren. ■
>
*
For behold, it came to pass after my father had made
an end of speaking the words of his dream, and also of
exhorting them to all dilligence, he spake unto theta
concerning the Jews, that after they should be destroy­
ed, even that great city Jerusalem, and many be car­
ried away captive into Babylon, according to the own
, due time of the Lord, they should return again; yea,
even be brought back out of captivity; and after they
should be brought back out of captivity they should
possess again the land of their inheritance.
Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my
father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the lord God
raise up among the Jews; even a Messiah; or, in oth­
er words, a Savior of the world. And he also spake
concerning the prophets, how great a number had tes­
tified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of
whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world.
"Wherefore, all mankind were in a lost and in a fallen
' ' *
FIRST BOOK OF tTEPHI. 2 5
state, and ever would be, save they should rely on this
Redeemer. _
And he spake also, concerning a prophet, who should
come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the
Lord; yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wil­
derness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his
paths straight; for there standeth one among you
whom ye know not; and he is mightier than I, whose
shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And much
Bpake my father concerning this thing.
And my father said he should baptise in Bethabary,
beyond Jordan; and he also said he should baptise with
water; even that he should baptise the Messiah with
water. And after he had baptised the Messiah with
water, he should behold and bear record, that he had
baptised the Lamb of God, who should take away the
sins of the world.
And it came to pass after my father had spoken
these words, he spake unto my brethren concerning
the gospel which should be preached among the Jews;
and also concerning the dwindling of the Jews in un­
belief. And after they had slain the Messiah who
should come, and after he had been slain, he should
rise from the dead, and should make himself manifest,
by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles.
Yea, even my father spake much concerning the
Gentiles, and also concerning the house of Israel, that
they should be compared like unto an olive tree, whose
branches should be broken off, and should be scattered
upon all the face of the earth. Wherefore, he said it
must needs be that we should be led with one accord,
into the land of promise unto the fulfilling of the word
of the Lord, that we should be scattered upon all the
face of the earth. And after the house of Israel should
be scattered, they should be gathered together again;
or, in fine, after the Gentiles had received the fulness
of the gospel, the natural branches of the olive tree,
or the remnants of the house of Israel, should be graft­
ed in, or come to the knowledge of the true Messiah,
their Lord and their Redeemer. And after this man­
ner of language did my father prophesy and speak un­
to my brethren; and also many more things, which I
do not write in this book; for I have written as many
of them as were expedient for me in mine other book.
And all these things of which I have spoken, were
26 FIRST BOOK OF KEFHI.
done as my father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of
Lemuel.
And it came to pase after T, Nephi, having heard all
the words ol my father, concerning the things which
he saw in a vision; and also the things which he spake
by the power of the Holy Ghost; which power he re­
ceived by faith on the Son of God; and the Son of God
was the Messiah, who should come. I, Nephi, was de­
sirous also, that I might see, and hear, and know of
these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost, which
is the gift of Hod unto all those who diligently seek
him, as well in times of old as in the time that he
should manifest himself unto the children of men; for
he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the
way is prepared from the foundation of the world, if it
so be that they repent and come unto him; for he that
diligently seeketh, shall find; and the mysteries ofGod
shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy
Ghost, as well in these times as in limes of old; and
as well in times of old as in limes to come; wherefore,
the course of the Lord is one eternal round. There­
fore, remember, O man, for all thy doings, thou shalt
be brought into judgment. Wherefore, if yc have
sought to do wickedly in the days of your probation,
then ye are found unclean before the judgment seat of
God; and no unclean tiling can dwell 'with, God;
wherefore, ye must be cast off forever. And the Holy
Ghost giveth authority that I should speak these tilings
and deny them not.
For it came to pass after I had desired to know the
things that my father had seen, and believing that the
Lord was able to make them known unto me, as I sat
pondering in mine heart, I was caught away in the
Spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceeding high moun­
tain, which I never had before seen, and upon which
I never had before sat my foot. And the spirit said
unto me, behold, what desirest thou? And I said, I
desire to behold the things which my father saw. And
the spirit said unto me, believest thou that thy father
saw the tree ot which he hath spoken? Ancl I said
yea, thou knowest that I believe all the words of my
father.
And when I had spoken these words, the spirit cri­
ed with a loud voice, saying, hosanna to the^Lord,'the
most high God; for he is God over all the earth, yea,
even above all: And blessed art thou, Nephi, because
thou believest in the Son of the mosthigh God; where­
f ir s t b o o k o f k e p h i . 27
fore, thou shalt behold the things which thou hast de­
sired. And behold, this thing shall be given unto thee
for a sign, that after thou hast beheld the tree which
bore the fruit which thy father tasted, thou shalt also
behold a man descending out of heaven, and him shall
ye witness; and after ye have witnessed him, ye shall
bear record that it is the Son of God. -
And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me
look! and I looked and beheld a tree; and it was like
unto the tree which my father had seen; and the beau­
ty thereof was far beyond, yea, exceeding of all beau­
ty; and the whiteness thereofdid exceed the whiteness
of the driven snow. i .
And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said
unto the spirit, I behold, thou hast shewn unto me the
tree which is precious above all. And lie said unto
me, what desirest thou? And I said unto him, to
know the interpretation thereof; for 1spake unto him
as a man speaketh; for 1 beheld that he was in the
form of a man; yet, nevertheless, I knew that it was
the spirit of the Lord; and he spake unto me as a man
speaketh with another.
And it came to pass that he said unto me lookl and
I looked as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for
he had gone from before my presence.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the
great city of Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I
beheld the city of Nazareth: and in the city of Naza­
reth I beheld a virgin, and she was exceedingly fair
and white.
And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open;
and an angel came down and stood before me; and he
said unto me, Nephi, what beholdest thou? And I
said unto him, a virgin, most beautiful and fair above
all other virgins. And he said unto me, knowest thou
the condescension of God? And I said unto him, I
know that he loveth his children; nevertheless, I do
not know the meaning of all things. And he said un­
to me, behold, the virgin whom thou seest, is the
mother of the J3on of God, after the manner of the
flesh.
And it came to pass that I beheld that she was car­
ried away in the spirit; and after she had been carried
away in the spirit for the space of a time, the angel
spake unto me, saying, lookl And I looked and be-
held flae virgin again, beating a child in her arm?.—
And the angel said.unto me, behold thelgtmb of God,
28 FIRST BOOK OF NEPH1.
yea, even the Son ofthe Eternal Father! Knowest thou
the meaning ofthe tree which thy father saw? And I
answered him, saying, yea, it is the love of God, which
sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of
men; wherefore, it is the most desirable above all
things. And he spake unto me, saying, yea, and the
most joyous to the soul. And after he had said these
words, he said unto me, look! And I looked, and I
beheld the Son of God going forth among the children
of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and wor­
ship him.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of
iron which my father had seen, was the word of God,
which led to the fountain of living waters, or to the
tree of life; which waters are a representation of the
love of God; and I also beheld that the tree of life was
a representation of the love of God. And the angel
said unto me again, look and behold the condescension
of God! And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of
the world, of whom my father had spoken; and I also
beheld the prophet, who should prepaie the way be­
fore him. And the Lamb of God went forth and was
baptised of him; and after he was baptised, I beheld
the heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out
of heaven and abode upon him in the form of a dove.—
And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the
people, in power and great glory; and the multitudes
were gathered together to hear him; and 1beheld that
they caBt him out from among them. And I also be­
held twelve others following him.
And it came to pass that they u ere carried away in
the spirit, from before my face and I saw them not.—
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto meagain,
saying, look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens
open again, and I saw angels descending upon the
children of men; and they aid minister unto them.—
And he spake unto me again, saying, lookl And I
looked, and I beheld the Lamb of God going forth
among the children of men. And I beheld multitudes
of people who.were sick, and who were afflicted with
all manner of diseases, and with devils, and unclean
spirits; and the angel spake, and shewed all these
things unto me. And they were healed by the power
of the Lamb of God; and the devils and the unclean
spiritswere cast out.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me
again, saying, look! And I looked and beheld the
%
FIRST BOOK OF NEPH I. 29
Lamb of God, that he waa taken by the people; yea,
the Son ofthe everlasting God waajudged ofthe world;
and I Baw and bear record. And I, Nephi, saw that he
was lifted up upon the cross, and slain for the sins of
the world. And after he was slain I saw the multitudes
of the earth, that they were gathered together to fight
against the apostles of the Lamb; for thus were the
twelve called by the angel of the Lord. And the mul­
titude of the earth was gathered together; and I be­
held that they were in a large and spacious building,
like unto the building which my father saw! And the
angel of the Lord spake unto me again, saying, behold
the world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold, the
house of Israel hath gathered together, to fight against
the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And it came to pasB that I saw and bear record, that
the great and spacious building was the pride of the
world; and it fell; and the fall thereof was exceeding
great. And the angel ofthe Lord spake unto me again,
saying, thus shall be the destruction of all nations,
kindreds, tongues and people, that shall fight against
the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And it came to pass that the angel said unto me
look, and behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy
brethren! And I looked and beheld the land of prom­
ise; and I beheld multitudes of people, yea, even as it
were in number, as many as the sand of the sea.
And it came to pass that I belieId multitudes gath­
ered together to battle, one against the other; and I
beheld wars, and rumors of wars, and great slaughters
with the sword among my people.
And it came to pass that I beheld many generations
pass away, after the manner of wars and contentions
in the land; and I beheld many cities, yea, even that
I did not number them.
And it came to pass that I saw a mist of darkness
on the face of the land of promise; and I saw light­
nings, and I heard thundermgs, and earthquakes, and
all manner of tumultuous noises; and I saw the earth
and the rocks that they rent; and I saw mountains
tumbling into pieces; and I saw the plains of the earth,
that they were broken up; and I saw many cities, that
they were sunk; and I saw many that they were burn­
ed with fire; and I saw many that did tumble to the
earth, because of the quaking thereof.
And it came to pass after I Baw these things, I saw
<tbe vapor of darkness, that it passed from off the face
30 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
of the earth; and behold, I saw multitudes who had
fallen, because of the great and terrible judgments of
the Lord. And I saw the heavens open, and the Lamb
of God descending out of heaven; and he came down
and shewed himself unto them. And I also saw and
bear record, that the Holy Ghost fell upon twelve oth­
ers; and they were ordained ofGod, and chosen.
And the angel spake unto me saying, behold the
twelve disciples of the Lamb, who are chosen to min­
ister unto thy seed. And he said unto me, thou re-
memberelh the twelve apostles of the Lamb'! Behold
they are they who shall judge the twelve tribes of Is­
rael; wherefore, the twcdve ministers of thy seed, shall
be judged of them; for ye are of the house of Israel;
and these twelve ministers whom thou beholdest, shall
judge thy seed. And behold they are righteous forev­
er; for because of their faith in the Lainbof God, their
garments are made white in his blood.
And the angel said unto me, look! And l looked
and beheld three generations pass away in righteous­
ness; and their garments were white, even like unto
the Lamb of God. And the angel said unto me, these
are made white in the blood of the Lamb, because of
their faith in him. And 1, Kephi, also saw many of
the fourth generation, who passed away in righteous­
ness.
And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes of the
earth gathered together. And the angel said unto me,
behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren!—
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the peo­
ple of my seed gathered together in multitudes against
the seed of my brethren; and they were gathered to­
gether to battle.
And >
the angel spake unto me, saying, behold the
fountain of filthy water wiiich thy lather saw; yea,
even the river of which he spake; ami the depths there­
of are the depths ofhell; and the mists of darkness are
the temptations of the devil, which blindeth the eyes,
and hardeneth the hearts of the children of men, and
leadeth them away into broad roads, that they may
perish, and are lost; and the large and spacious build­
ing which thy lather saw, is vain imaginations and the
pride of the children of men. And a great and a terri-^
ble gulf divideth them; yea, even the word of the jus­
tice of the eternal God, and the Messiah who is the
Lamb of God, of whom the Holy Ghost beareth rec­
ord, from the beginning of the world until this time,
FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 31
and from this time henceforth and forever. And while
the ana-el spake these words, I beheld and saw that the
seed of my brethren did contend against my seed, ac­
cording to the word of the angel; and because of the
pride of my seed, and the temptations of the devil, I
beheld that the seed of my brethren did overpower the
people ofmy seed.
And it came to pass that I beheld and saw the peo­
ple of theseedof my brethren, that they had overcome
my seed; and they went forth in multitudes upon the
face of the land. And I saw them gathered together
in multitudes; and I saw wars and rumors ot wars
among them; and in wars, and rumors of wars, 1saw
many generations pass away. And the angel said un­
to me, behold, these shall dwindle in unbelief.
And it came to pass that I beheld after they had
dwindled in unbelief, they became a dark and loath­
some, and a filthy people, full of idleness and all man­
ner of abominations.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me
saying, look! And I looked and beheld many nations
and kingdoms. And the angel said unto me, what be-
holdest thou? And I said I behold many nations and, ,
kingdoms. And he said unto me, these are the nijj^.
tions and kingdoms of the Gentiles. ?
And it came to pass that I saw among the nations of
the Gentiles the foundation of a great church. And
the angel said unto me, behold rthe foundation of a
church, which is most abominable above all other
churches, which slayeth the saints of God, yea, and
lortureth them and hindeth them down, and yoketh
them with a yoke of iron, and bringeth them down in­
to captivity.
And it came to pass that I beheld this great and
abominable church; and I saw the devil that he was
the foundation of it. And I also saw gold, and silver,
and silks, and scarlets, and fine twined linen, and all
manner of precious clothing; and I saw many harlots.
And the angel spake unto me, saying, behold the gold,
and the silver, and the silks, and the scarlets, and the
fine twined linen, and the precious clothing, and the
harlots, are the desires of this great and abominable
church: and also for the praise of the world, do they
destroy the saints of God, and bring them down into
captivity. . i
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many
waters; and they divided the Gentiles from the seed
32 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
of my brethren. And it came to pass that the angel
said unto me, behold the wrath of God is upon the
seed of thy brethren! And I looked and beheld a man
among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed
of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the
spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon
the man; and he went forth upon the many waters,
even unto the seed of ray brethren, who were in the
promised land.
And it came to pass that I beheld the spirit of God,
that it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went
forth out of captivity, upon the many waters.
And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes
of the Gentiles, upon the land of promise; and I be­
held the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of
my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gen­
tiles, and were smitten. And I beheld the spirit of the
Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles; that they did
prosper, and obtain the land for their inheritance; and
1 beheld that they were white, and exceeding fair and
beautiful, like unto my people, before they were slain.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the
Gentiles who had gone forth out of captivity, did hum­
ble themselves before the Lord; and the power of the
Lord was with them; and I beheld that their mother
Gentiles were gathered together upon the waters, and
upon the land also, to battle against them; and I be­
held that the power of God was with them; and also
that the wrath of God was upon all those that were
gathered together against them to battle. And I, Ne­
phi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of cap­
tivity, were delivered by the power of God, out of the
hands of all other nations.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that they
did prosper in the land; and I beheld a book, and it
was carried forth among them. And the angel said
unto me, knowest thou the meaning of the book?—
And I said unto him, I know not And he said, be­
hold, it proceedeth out of the mouth of a Jew: and I,
Nephi, beheld it; and he said unto me, the book that
thou beholdest, is a record ofthe Jews, which contains
the covenants of the Lord which he hath made unto
the house of Israel; and it also containeth many
of the prophecies of the holy prophets; and it is a rec­
ord like unto the engravings which are upon the plates
of brass, save there are not so many; nevertheless,
they contain the covenants of the Lora, which he hath
made unto the house oflsrael; wherefore, they are of
great worth unto the Gentile#.
And the angel of the Lord said unto me, thou hast
beheld that the book proceeded forth from the mouth
of a Jew; and when it proceeded forth from the mouth
ofa Jew, it contained the plainness of the gospel of
the Lord, of whom the twelve apostles bear record;
and they bear record according to the truth which, is
in the Lamb of God; wherefore, these things go forth
from the Jews in purity, unto the Gentiles, according
to the truth which is in God; and after they go forth
by the hand of the twelve apostles of the Lamb, from
the Jews unto the Gentiles, thou seest the foundation
of a great and abominable church, which is most abom­
inable above all other churches; for behold, they have
j taken away from the gospel of the Lamb, many parts
| which are plain and most precious; and also many
| covenants of the Lord have they taken away; and all
f this have they done, that they might pervert the right
I ways of the Lord; that they might blind the eyes and
f harden the hearts of the children of men: wherefore,
I thou seest that after the book hath gone forth through
f the hands of the great and abominable church, that
[ there are many plain and precious things taken away
from the book, which is the book of the Lamb of God;
and after these plain and precious things were taken
away, it goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gen­
tiles; and after it goeth forth unto all the nations of
the Gentiles, yea, even across the many waters which
thou hast seen with the Gentiles which have gone forth
out ofcaptivity; thou seestbecause ofthe many plain and
precious things which have been taken out of the book,
which were plain unto the understanding of the chil­
dren of men, according to the plainness which is in the
;i Lamb of God; because of these things which are taken
away out of the gospel of the Lamb, an exceeding
great many do stumble, yea, insomuch that satan hath
great power over them; nevertheless thou beholdest
\ that the Gentiles who have gone forth out of captivity,
and have been lifted up by the power of God above all
} other nations upon the face of the land, which is
choice above all other lands, which is the land that the
Lord God hath covenanted with thy father, that his
seed should have, for the land of then inheritance, will
not utterly destroy the mixture of thy seed, which are
among thy brethren; neither will he suffer that the Gen­
tiles shall destroy the seed of thy brethren; neitherwill
FIRST BOOK OF N EFH I. 33
34 rn w T b o o k o f k e p h i.
the Lord God Buffer that the Gentiles shall forever re­
main in that awful state ofblindness, which thou behold-
est they are in, because of the plain and most precious
parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept
back by that abominable church, whose formation thou
hast seen. Wherefore, saith the Lamb of God, 1 will
be merciful unto the Gentiles, unto the visiting of the
remnant ofthe house ofIsrael in great judgment.
And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake
unto me, saying, behold, sailh the Lamb of God, after
I have visited tiic remnant of the house of Israel, and
this remnant of whom I speak, is the seed of thy fa­
ther; wherefore, after I have visited them injudgment,
and smitten them by the hand of the Gentiles; and af­
ter the Gentiles do stumble exceedingly, because of
the most plain and precious parts of the gospel of the
Lamb which lias been kept back, by that abominable
church, which is the mother of harlots, saith the Lamb,
I will he merciful unto the Gentiles in that day, inso­
much that I will bring forth unto them in mine own
power, much of my gospel, which shall be plain and
precious, saith the Lamb; for behold, sailh the Lamb,
I will manifest myself unto thy seed, that they shall
write many things which I shall minister unto them,
which shall be plain and precious; and after thy gfeed
shall he destroyed and dwindle in unbelief, ana also
the seed of thy brethren; behold, these things shall be
hid up, to come forth unto the Gentiles, by the gift
and power of the Lamb; and in them shall be written
my gospel, sailh the Lamb, and my rock and my sal­
vation; and blessed are they who shall seek to bring
forth my Zion at that day, tor they shall have the gift
and the power ofthe Holy Ghost: and if they endure
unto the end; they shall he lifted up at the last day,
and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of the
Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of
great joy,' how beautiful upon the mountains shall they
be.
And it came to pass that 1 beheld the remnant of
the seed of my brethren, and also the book of the Lamb
of God, which had proceeded forth from the mouth of
the Jew, that it came forth from the Gentiles, unto
the remnant of the seed of my brethren; and after it
had comeforth unto them. I beheld other books, which
came forth by the power of the Lamb, from the Gen­
tiles unto them?' unto the convincing of the Gentiles,
and the remnant of the seed of my brethren, and also
FIRST BOOR OF NKPHI. 35
the Jews, who were scattered upon all the face of the
earth, that the records of the prophets and of the
twelve apostles of the Lamb, are true.
And the angel spake unto rae, saying, these last
records which thou hast seen among the Gentiles, shall
establish the truth of the first, which are of the twelve
apostles of the Lamb, and shall make known the plain
and precious things which have been taken away from
them; and shall make known to all kindreds, tongues
and people, that the Lamb of God is the Son of the
eternal Father, and the Savior of the world; and that,
all men must coins unto him, or they cannot be saved;
and they must come according to the words which
shall be established by the mouth of the Lamb: and
the words of the Lamb shall be made known in the rec­
ords of thy seed, as well as in the records of the twelve
apostles of the Lamb; wherefore, they both shall be
established in one; for there is one God and one Shep­
herd over all the earth; and the time coineth that he
shall manifest himself unto all nations, both unto the-
Jew.s, and also unto the Gentiles; and after he has
manifested himself unto the Jews, and also unto the
Gentiles, then he shall manifest himself unto the Gen­
tiles, and also unto the Jews, and the last shall be first,
and the first shall be last.
And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall
hearken unto the Lamb of God in that day that he-
shall manifest himself unto them in word, and also in
power, in very deed, unto the taking away of their
stumbling blocks, and harden not their hearts against
the Lamb of God, they shall be numbered among the
(seed. of.thy father; yea, they shall be numbered among
'the house of Israel; and they shall be a blessed peo­
ple' upon the promised land forever; they shall be no
more brought down into captivity; and the house of
Israel shall no more bo confounded; and that great
pit which hath been digged for them, by that great
and abominable church, which was founded by the
devil and his children, that he might lead away the
souls of men down to hell; yea, that great pit which
hath been digged for the destruction of men, shall be
filled by those who digged it, unto their utter destruc­
tion, saith the Lamb of God; not the destruction of
the soul, save it be. the casting of it into that hell
which hath no end; for behold, this is according to
the captivity of the devil, and also according to the
36 TIRST BOOK OF NBPHI.
justice of God, upon all those who will work wicked­
ness and abomination before him.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me,
Nephi, saying, thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles
repent, it shall be well with them; and thou also
knowest concerning the covenants of the Lord unto
the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard, that
whoso repenteth not, must perish; therefore, wo be
unto the Gentiles, if it so be that they harden their
hearts against the Lamb of God; for the time cometh,
saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a great and a
marvellous work among the children of men; a work
which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or
on the other: either to the convincing of them unto
peace and life eternal, or unto the deliverance of them
to the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of
their minds, unto their being brought down into cap­
tivity, and also unto destruction, both temporally and
spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of
whieh I have spoken.
And it came to pass that when the angel had spo­
ken these words, he said unto me, remember thou the
covenants of the Father unto the house of Israel? I
said unto him, yea. And it came to pass that he said
unto ime, look, and behold that great and abominable
church, which is the mother of abominations, whose
foundation is the devil. And he said unto me behold,
there are, save two churches only: the one is the
church of the Lamb of God, and the other is the church
of the devil; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the
church of the Lamb of God, belongeth to that great
church, which is the mother of abominations; and she
is the whore of all the earth.
And it came to pass that 1 looked and beheld the
whore of at! the earth, and she sat upon many waters;
and she bad dominion over all the earth, among all na­
tions, kindreds, tongues and people.
And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the
Lamb of God, and its numbers were few, because of
the wickedness and abominations of the whore who sat
upon many waters; nevertheless, I beheld that the
church of the Lamb, who were the saints of God, were
also upon all the face of the earth; and their domin­
ions upon the face of the earth were small, because of
the wickedness of the great whore whom I saw.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the great
mother of abominations did gather together multitudes
upon the face of all the earth, among all the nations
of the Gentiles, to fight against the Lamb of God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the pow­
er of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the
saints of the church of the Lamb, and upon the cove­
nant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all
the face of the earth; and they were armed with right­
eousness and with the power of God in great glory.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of
God was poured out upon the great and abominable
church, insomuch that there were wars and rumors of
wars among all the nations and kindreds of the earth,
and as there began to be wars and rumors of wars
among all the nations which belonged to the mother
of abominations, the angel spake unto me, saying, be­
hold, the wrath of God is upon the mother of harlots;
and behold, thou seest all these things: and when the
day cometh that the wrath of God is poured out upen
the mother of harlots, which is the great and abomina­
ble church of all the earth, whose foundation is the
devil, then, at that day, the work of the Father shall
commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling of
his covenants, which he hath made to his people, who
are of the house of Israel.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me,
saying, look! And I looked and beheld a man, and he
was dressed in a white robe; and the angel said unto
me, behold one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb!—
Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these
things; yea, and also many things which have been:
and he shall also write concerning the end of the world;
wherefore, the things which he shall write, are just
and true; and behold, they are written in the book
which thou beheld proceeding out of the mouth of the
Jew; and at the time they proceeded out of the mouth
of the Jew, or, at the time the book proceeded out of
the mouth of the Jew, the things which were written,
were plain and pure, and most precious, and easy to
the understanding of all men. And behold, the things
which this apostle of the Lamb shall write, are many
things which thou hast seen; and behold, the remain­
der shalt thou see; but the things which thou shalt see
hereafter, thou shalt not write; for the Lord God hath
ordained the apostle of the Lamb of God, that he
should write them. And also others who have been,
to them hath he shown all things, and they have writ­
ten them; and they are sealed up to come forth in their
FIRST BOOK OF NXPHI. 37
38 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
purity, according to the truth which is in the Lamb, in
the own due time of the Lord, unto the house of Is­
rael.
And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name
of tlie apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the
word of the angel. And behold, I, Nephi, am forbid­
den that I should write the remainder of the things
which I saw and heard; wherefore, the things which
I have written sufflceth me; and I have not written
but a small part of the things which I saw. And I
bear record, that 1 saw the things which my father
saw, and the angel of the Lord did make them known
unto me. And now I make an end of speaking con­
cerning the things which l saw, while I was carried
away in the spirit; and if all the things which I saw
are not written, the things which I have written, are
true. And thus it is. Amen,
CHAPTER IV.
A nd it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been
carried away in the spirit, and seen all these things, I
returned to the tent of my father. And it came to pass
that I beheld my brethren, and they were disputing
one with another, concerning the things which iny fa­
ther had spoken unto them; for he truly spake many
great things unto them, which were hard to be under­
stood, save a man should inquire of the Lord; sand
they being hard in their hearts, therefore they did not
look unto the Lord as they ought. And now 1, Nephi,
was grieved because of the hardness of their hearts,
and also, because of the things which I had seen, aiid
knew they must unavoidably come to pass, liecause of
the great wickedness of the children of men.
And it came to pass that I was overcome because
of my afflictions, for I considered that mine afflictions
were great above all, because of the destructions of
my people; for I had beheld their fall.
Ar.d it came to pass that after I had received strength,
I spake unto my brethren, desiring to know of them
the cause of their disputations. And they said, be­
hold, we cannot understand the words which our fa­
ther hath spoken concerning the natural branches of
FIRST BOOK OF N EFH I. 39
the olive tree, and also, concerning the Gentiles. And
I said unto them, have ye inquired of the Lord! And
they said unto me, we have not; for the Lord maketh
no such thing known unto us. Behold, I said unto
them, how is it that ye do not keep the commandments
of the Lord? How is it that ye will perish, because
of the hardness of your hearts? Do ye not remember
the things which the Lord hath said, if ye will not
harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing that
ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my com­
mandments, surely, these things shall be made known
unto you? '*
•"
Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was
compared unto an olive tree, by the spirit of the Lord
which was in our fathers; and behold, are we not bro­
ken olf from the house of Israel: and are we not a
branch ot the house of Israel? And now, the thing
which our father meaneth concerning the grafting in.
of the natural branches through the fulness of the
Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed
shall have dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of
many years, and many generations, afler the Messiah
shall be manifested in body unto the children of men,
then shall the fulness of the gospel of the Messiah
come unto the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto
the remnant of our seed; and at that day, shall the
remnant of our seed know that they are of the house
of Israel, and that they are the covenant people of the
Lord; and then shall they know and come to the know­
ledge of their forefathers, and also to the knowledge of
the gospel of their Redeemer, which was ministered
unto their fathers by him; wherefore, they shall come
to the knowledge of their Redeemer, and the very
points of his doctrine, that they may know how to
come unto him and be saved. And then at that day,
will they not rejoice and give praise unto their ever­
lasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at
that day, will they not receive the strength and nour­
ishment from the true vine? Yea, will they not come
unto the true fold of God? Behold, I say unto you,
yea; they shall be remembered again among the house
of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural
branch of the olive tree, into the true olive tree; and
this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that
it will not come to pass, until after they are scattered
by the Gentiles; and he meaneth that it shall come by
way of the Gentiles, tliat the Lord may shew his pow­
40 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
er unto the Gentiles, for tbeyery cause that he shall
be rejected of the Jews, or of the house of Israel;
wherefore, our father hath not spoken ofour seed alone,
but also of ail the house of Israel, pointing to the cov-
enant which should be fulfilled in the Tatter days;
which covenant the Lord made to our father Abraham,
saying, in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth
he blessed.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much un­
to them concerning these things; yea, I spake unto
them concerning the restoration of the Jews, in the
latter days; and I did rehearse unto them the words
of Isaiah, who spake concerning the restoration ofthe
Jews, or of the house of Israel; and after they were re­
stored, they should no more be confounded, neither
should they be scattered again. And it came to pass
that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that
they were pacified, and did humble themselves before
the Lord.
And it came to pass that they did speak unto me
again, saying, what meaneth this thing which our fa­
ther saw in a dreamt What meaneth tire tree which
he saw? And I said unto them, it was a representa­
tion of the tree of life. And they said unto me, what
meaneth the rod of iron which our father saw, that
led to the tree! And I said unto them, that it was
the word of God; and whoso would hearken unto the
word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would
never perish; neither could the temptations and the
fiery darts of the adversary, overpower them unto
blindness, to lead them away to destruction. Where­
fore, I Nephi, did exhort them to give heed unto tha
word of the Lord; yea, I did exhort them with all the
energies of my soul, and with all the faculty which I
possessed, that they would give heed to the word of
God, and remember to keep his commandments al­
ways, in all things. And they said unto me, what
meaneth the river ofwater which our father saw? And
I said unto them, that the water which my father saw,
was filthiness; and so much was his mind swallowed
up in other things, that he beheld not the filthiness of
the water; and I said unto them, that it was an awful
gulf, which separateth the wicked from the tree oflife,
and also from the saints of God. And I said unto
them, that it was a representation of that awful hell,
which the angel said unto me was prepared for the
wicked. Ana I said unto them, that our father also
FIRST BOOK OF IfXPUU 41
fiaw, that the justice of God did also divide the wicked
from the righte'ous; and the brightness thereof was
like unto the brightness of a flaming fire, which as-
cendeth up unto God forever and ever, and bath no
end.
And they said unto me, doth this thing mean the
torment of the body in the days of probation, or doth
it mean the final state of the soul after the death of
the temporal body! or doth it speak of the things
which are temporal! And it came to pass that I said
unto them, that it was a representation of things both
temporal and spiritual; for the day should coine that
they must be judged ol their works, yea, even the
works which were done by the temporal body in their
days of probation: wherefore, if they should die in
their wickedness, they must be cast off also, as to the
things which are spiritual, which are pertaining to
righteousness; wherefore, they must be brought to
stand before God, to be judged of their works; and if
their works have been filthiness, they must needs be
filthy; and if they be filthy, it must needs be that they
cannot dwell in the kingdom of God; if so, the king­
dom of God must be filthy also. But behold, I say
unto you, the kingdom of God is not filthy, and there
cannot any unclean thing enter into the kingdom of
God; wherefore there must needs be a place of filthi­
ness prepared for that which is filthy. And there is a
E
lace prepared, yea, even that awful hell of which I
ave spoken, and the devil is the foundation of it;
wherefore, the final state of the souls of men is to
dwell in the kingdom of God, or to be cast out hecause
ofthat justice of which I have spoken; wherefore, the
wicked are rejected from the righteous, and also from
that tree of life, whose fruit is most precious and most
desirable above all other fruits; yea, and it is the great­
est of all the gifts of God. And thus I spake unto my
brethren. Amen.
CHAPTER V. v»
Asd now it came to pass that after I, Nephi,- had
made an end ofspeaking to my brethren, behold, they
42 FIRST BOOK OF KEFH I.
said unto me, thou host declared unto us hard things,
more than wc are able to bear.
Ana it came to pass that I said unto them, that I
knew that I had spoken hard things against the wick­
ed, according to the truth; and the righteous have I
justified, and testified that they should be lifted up at
the last day; wherefore, the guilty taketh the truth to
be hard, for it cutteth them to the very center. And
now, my brethren, if ye were righteous, and were wil­
ling to hearken to the truth, and give heed unto it,
that ye might walk uprightly before God, then ye
would not murmur because of the truth, and say thou
speakest hard tilings against us. And it came to pass
that I, Nephi, did exhort my brethren, with all dili­
gence, to keep the commandments of the Lord. And
it came to pass that they did humble themselves be­
fore the Lord; insomuch, that I had joy and great
hopes of them, that they would walk in the paths of
righteousness. Now, all these things were said and
done, as my father dwelt in a tent in the valley which
he called Lemuel.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one of the
daughters of Ishmael to wife; and also, my brethren
took of the daughters of Ishmael to wife; and also,
Zoram took the eldest daughter of Ishmael to wife.
And thus my father had fulfilled all the command­
ments of the Lord which had been given unto him.—
And also, I, Nephi, had been blessed of the Lord ex­
ceedingly.
And it came to pass tiiat the voice of the Lord spake
unto my father, by night, and commanded him, that
on the morrow, he should take his journey into the
wilderness. And it came to pass that as my father
arose in the morning, and went forth to the tent door,
to his great astonishment, he beheld upon the ground
a round ball, of curious workmanship; and it was of
fine brass. And within the ball were two spindles;
and the one pointed the way whither we should go in­
to the wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did gather together
whatsoever things we should carry into the wilder­
ness, and all the remainder of our provisions whieh
the Lord had given unto us; and we did take seed of
every kind, that we might carry into the wilderness.
"And it came to pass that we did take our tents, and
depart into the wilderness, across the river Latnan.
And it came to pass that we travelled for the space of
FIRST BOOK OF NEPH I. 43
four day*, nearly a south, southeast direction, and we
did pitch our tents again; and we did call the name of
the place Shazer.
And it came to pass that we did take our bows and
our arrows, and go forth into the wilderness,^ to slay
food for our families; and after we had slain food for
our families, we did return again to our families in the
wilderness, to the place of Shazer. And we did go
forth again, in the wilderness, following the same di­
rection, keeping in the most fertile parts of the wild­
erness, which were in the borders near the Red Sea.
And it came to pass that we did travel for the space of
many days, slaying food by the way, with our bows
and our arrows, and our stones and our slings; and
we did follow the directions of the ball, which led us
in the more fertile parts of the wilderness. And after
we had travelled for the space of many days, we did
pitch our tents for the space of a time, that we might
again rest ourselves and obtain food for our families.
And it came to pass that as I, Nephi, went forth to
slay food, behold, I did break my bow, which was made
of fine steel; and after I did break my bow, behold,
my brethren were angry with me, because of the loss
of my bow, for we did obtain no food. And it came
to pass that we did return without food to our fami­
lies. And being much fatigued, because of their jour­
neying, they did suffer much for the want of food.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel, and
the sons of Ishmael, did begin to murmur exceedingly,
because of their sufferings and oiiiictions in the wild­
erness; and also my father began to murmur against
the Lord his God; yea, and they were all exceeding
sorrowful, even that they did murmur against the Lord.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been af­
flicted with my brethren, because of„the loss of my
bow; and their bows having lost their springs, it be­
gan to be exceeding difficult, yea, insomuch, that we
could obtain no food. And it came to pass that I,
Nephi, did speak much unto my brethren,^because they
had hardened their hearts again, even unto complain­
ing against the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make out of
wood a bow, and out of a straight stick, au arrow;
wherefore, I did arm myself with a bow and an arrow,
with a sling, and with stones. And I said onto my
father, whither shall I go, to obtain food"! And it
came to pass that he did inquire of the Lord, for they
44 r r a s T b o o k o r b e p h i .
had humbled themselves because of my word; for I
did say many things unto them in the energy of my
soul.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came
unto my father; and he was truly chastened because
of his murmuring against the Lord, insomuch that he
was brought down into the depths of sorrow. And it
came to pass that the voice of the Lord said unto him,
look upon the ball, and behold the things which are
written! And it came to pass that when my father
beheld the things which were written upon the ball,
he did fear and tremble exceedingly; and also my breth­
ren, and the sons of Islnnael, and our wives.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the point­
ers which were in the hall, that (' ' ivork accord-
i i j g w m e a u u ) w i i i u i * w v
did give unto them. And there was also written upon
them, a new writing, which was plain to be read,
which did give us understanding concerning the ways
of the Lord; and it was written and changed from
time to time, according to the faith and diligence which
we gave unto it: And thus we see, that by small
means, the Lord can bring about great things.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did go forth up into
the lop of the mountain, according to the directions
which were given upon the ball. And it came to pass
that I did slay wild beasts, insomuch that I did obtain
food for our families. And it came to pass that i did
return to our tents, bearing the beasts which I had
slam; and now, when they beheld that I had obtained
food, how great was their joy. And it came to pass
that they did humble themselves before the Lord, and
did give thanks unto him.
And it came to pass that we did again take our
journey, travelling nearly the samo. course as in the
beginning: and after we had travelled for the space ol
many days, we did pitch our tents again, that we
might tarry for the space of a time.
And it came to pass that Ishmael died, and was bu­
ried in the place which was called Nahom. And it
came to pass that the daughters of Ishmael did mourn
exceedingly, because of the loss of their father, and
because of their afflictions in the wilderness; and they
did murmur against my father, because he had brought
them out of the land of Jerusalem, saying, our father
is dead; yea, and we have wandered much in the wild­
erness, and we have suffered much affliction, hanger,
to the faith, and diligence, which we
first b o o k or h k p h i. 45
thirst, and fatigue; and after all these sufferings, we
must perish in the wilderness with hunger. And thus
they did murmur against my father, and also against
me; and they were desirous to return again to Jerusa­
lem. And Laman said unto Lemuel, and also unto
the sons of Ishmael, behold, let us slay ourfather, and
also our brother Nephi, who has taken it upon him to
be our ruler and our teacher, who are his elder breth­
ren: Now, he says that the Lord has talked with him,
and also, that angels have ministered unto him'? But
behold, we know that he lies unto us; and he tells us
these things, and he worketh many things by his cun­
ning arts, that he may deceive our eyes, thinking, per­
haps, that he may lead us away into some strange
wilderness; and after he has led us away, he has
thought to make himself a king and a ruler over us,
that he may do with us according to his will and
pleasure. And after this manner, did my brother La­
ban stir up their hearts to anger.
And it came to pass that the Lord was with us; yea,
even the voice of the Lord came and did speak many
words unto them, and did chasten them exceedingly;
and after they were chastened by the voice of the
Lord, they did turn away their anger, and did repent
of their sins, insomuch that the Lord did bless us
again with food, that we did not perish.
And it came to pass that we did again take ourjour­
ney in the wilderness; and we did travel nearly east­
ward, from that time forth. And we did travel and
wade through much affliction in the wilderness; and
our women did bear children in the wilderness. And
so great were the blessings of the Lord upon us, that
while we did live upon raw meat in the wilderness,
our women did give plenty of suck for their children,
and were strong, yea, even like unto the men; and
they began to bear their journeyings without mur-
murings. And thus we see that the commandments
of Goa must be fulfilled. And if it so be that the chil­
dren of men keep the commandments of God, he doth
nourish them, and strengthen them, and provide means
whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has
commanded them: wherefore, he did provide means
for us while we did sojourn in the; wilderness. ,And
we did sojourn for the space ofmany years, yia, even
eight years in the wilderness. And we di<£ come to
the land which we called .Bountiful, because of its
much fruit, and also wild honey; and all tbede things
46 FIRST BOOK O f HKPHI.
were prepared of the Lord, that we might not perish.
And we beheld the sea, which we called Irreantum,
which being interpreted, is, many waters.
And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by
the seashore; and notwithstanding we had suffered
many afflictions, and much difficulty, yea, even so
much that we cannot write them all, we were exceed­
ingly rejoiced when we came to the seashore; and we
called the place Bountiful, because of its much fruit.
And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in
the land of Bountiful for the space of many days, the
voice of the Lord came unto me, saying, arise, and get
thee into the mountain. And it came to pass that £
arose and went up into the mountain, and cried unto
the Lord.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me,
saying, thou shaft construct a ship, after the manner
which I shall shew thee, that I may carry thy people
across these waters. And I said, Lord, whither shall
I go, that I may find ore to molLen, that I may make
tools to construct the ship, after the manner which
thou hast shewn unto me? And it came to pass that)
the Lord told me whither I should go to find ore, that
I might make tools.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make a bel­
lows wherewith to blow the fire, of the skins of
beasts; and after 1 had made a bellows, that 1 might
have wherewith to blow the fire, I did smite two
stones together, that I might make fire; for the Lord
had not hitherto suffered that we should make much
fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; for he Baid, I
will make thy food become sweet, that ye cook it not;
and I will also be your light in the wilderness; and 1
will prepare the way before yon, if it so be that ye
shall keep my commandments; wherefore, inasmuch
as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall be led
towards the promised land; and ye shall know that it
is by me that ye are led. Yea, and the Lord said also,
that after ye have arrived to the promised land, ye
shall know that I, the Lord, am God; and that 1, the
Lord, did deliver you from destruction; yea, that 1did
bring you out of the land of Jerusalem. Where-
fore, I, Nephi, did strive to*keep the commandments
of the Lord, and I did exhort my brethren to faithful­
ness and diligence. ( mvifeft .-,*
•>
•« My >
And it came to pass that I did make tools of the ore
which I did molten out of the rook.. And' when my
FIRST BOOK o r N SFH I. 47
brethren saw that I was about to build a ship, they
began to murmur against me, saying, our brother is a
fool, for he thinketh that he can build a ship: yea, and
he also thinketh that he can cross these great waters.
And thus my brethren did complain against me, and
were desirous that they might not labor, for they did
not believe that I could build a ship; neither would
they believe that I was instructed of the Lord.
And now it came to pass that I, Nephi, was exceed­
ing sorrowful, because of the hardness of their hearts;
and now when they saw that I began to be sorrowful,
they were glad in their hearts, insomuch that they did
rejoice ovei me, saying, we knew that ye could not
construct a ship, for we knew that ye were lacking in
judgement; wherefore, thou canst not accomplish so
great a work; and thou art like unto our father, led
away by the foolish imaginations of his heart; yea, he
hath led us out of the land of Jerusalem; and we have
wandered in the wilderness for these many years; and
our women have toiled, being big with child; and
they have borne children in the wilderness, and suffered
all things, save it were death; and it would have been
better that they had died, before they came out of Je­
rusalem, than to have suffered these afflictions. Be­
hold, these many years we have suffered in the wild­
erness, which time we might have enjoyed our posses­
sions, and the land of our inheritance: yea, and we
might have been happy; and we know that the peo­
ple who were in the land of Jerusalem, were a right­
eous people; for they kept the statutes and the judge­
ments of the Lord, and atl his commandments, accord­
ing to the law of Moses; wherefore, we know that they
are a righteous people; and our father hath judged
them, and hath led us away because we would heark­
en unto his woids; yea, and our brother is like unto
him. And after this manner of language did my breth­
ren murmur and complain against us.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake unto them,
saying, do ye believe that our fathers, who were the
children of Israel, would have been led away out of
the hands of the Egyptians, if they had not hearkened
unto the words of the Lord! Tea, do ye suppose that
they would have been led out of bondage, if the Lord
had not commanded Moses that he should lead ''them
out of bondage! Now ye now that the children of Is­
rael were ih bondage; and ye know that they,were
laden withTtasks,’ which were grievous"to be borne;
48 FIRST BOOK O r HEPHI.
wherefore, ye know that it must needs be agood thing
for them, that they should be brought out oi bondage.
Now ye know that Moses was commanded of the
Lord to do that great work; and ye know that by hta
word, the waters of the Red Sea were divided hither
and thither, and they passed through on dry ground.
But ye know that the Egyptians were drowned in the
Red Sea, who were the armies of Pharaoh; and ye al­
so know that they were fed with manna in the wilder­
ness; yea, and ye also know that Mpscs, by his word,
according to the power of God which was in him,
smote the rock, and there came forth water, that the
children of Israel might quench their thirst; and not­
withstanding they being led, the Lord their God, their
Redeemer, going before them, leading them by day,
and giving light unto them by night, and doing all
things for them which were expedient for man to re­
ceive, they hardened their hearts, and blinded their
minds, and reviled against Moses and against the true
and living God-
And it came to pass that according to his word, he
did destroy them: and according to his word, he did
lead them; and according to his word, he did do all
things for them; and there was not any thing done,
save it were by his word. And after they bad crossed
the river Jordan, he did make them mighty, unto the
driving out the children of the land, yea, unto the
scattering them to destruction. And now do ye sup­
pose that the children of this land, who were in tne
land of promise, wiio were driven out by our fathers,
do ye suppose that they were righteous? Behold, I
say unto you, nay. Do ye suppose that our fathers
would have been more choice than they, if they had
been righteous? I say unto you nay; behold, the
Lord esteemeth all flesh in one: He that is righteous,
is favored of God. But behold, this people had reject­
ed every word of God, and they were ripe in iniquity;
and the fulness of the wrath of God was upon them;
and the Lord did curse the land against them, and
bless it unto our fathers; yea, he did curse it against
them unto their destruction; and he did bless it unto
our fathers, unto their obtaining power over it. Be­
hold, the Lord hath created the earth that it should be
inhabited; and he hath created his children, that they
should possess it. And he raiseth up a righteous na­
tion, and destroyeth the nations of the, wicked, Apd
he leadeth away the righteous into precious lands, and
f i r s t b o o k or n e p h i .
the wicked he destroyeth, and curseth the land unto
them fortheir sakes. He ruleth high in the heavens, for
it is his throne, and this earth is his footstool. And be
loveth those who will have him to be their God. Be­
hold, he loved our fathers; and he covenanted with
them, yea, even Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: and he
remembered the covenants which he had made; where­
fore, he did bring them out of the land of Egypt, and
he did straighten them in the wilderness with his rod,
for they hardened their hearts, even as ye have; and
the Lord straightened them because of their iniquity.
He sent fiery-flying serpents among them; and after
they were bitten, he prepared a way that they might
be healed; and the labor which they had to perform,
was to lookl and because of the simpleness of the way,
or the easiness of it, there were many who perished.
And they did harden their hearts from time to time,
and they did revile against Moses, and also against
God; nevertheless, ye know that they were led forth
by his matchless power into the land of promise. And
now, after ail these tilings, the time has come that
they have become wicked, yea, nearly unto ripeness;
and I know not but they are at this day about to be
destroyed; for I know that the day must surely come,
that they must be destroyed, save a few only, who
shall be led away into captivity; wherefore,, the Lord
commanded my father that he should depart into the
wilderness; and the Jews also sought to take away
his life; yea, and ye also have sought to take away his
life; wherefore, ye are murderers in your hearts, and
ye are like unlo them: Ye are swift to do iniquity, blit
slow to remember the Lord your God. Ye have Been
an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard
his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken un­
to you in a still, small voice, but ye were past feeling,
that ye could not feel his words; wherefore, he has
spoken unto you like unto the voice ofthunder, which did
cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide assun-
der. And ye also know, that by the power of his al­
mighty word, he can cause the earth that it shall pass
away; yea, and ye know that by his word, he can
cause the rough places to be made smooth, and smooth
places shall be broken up. O, then, why is it, that
ye can be so hard in yotir hearts? Behold, my soul is
rent with anguish because of you, and my heart is
pained: I fear lest ye shall be cast off forever. *
1Be-*
'r r
4ft
50 FIRST BOOK OF NEPH I.
hold, I am full of the spirit of God, insomuch that my
frame has no strength.
And now it came to pass that when I had spoken
these words, they were angry with me, and were de­
sirous to throw me into the depths of the sea; and as
they came forth to lay their hands upon me, I spake
unto them, saying, in the name of the Almighty God,
I command you that ye toucii me not, for 1 am filled
with tire power of God, even unto the consuming of
my flesh; and whoso shall lay their hands upon me,
shall wither even as a dried reed; and he shall be as
nought before the power of God, for God shall smite
him.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto them,
that they should murmur no more against their father;
neither should they withhold their labor from me, for
God had commanded me that I should build a ship.
And I said unto them, if God had commanded me to
do all things, I could do them. If he should command
me that l should say unto this water, be thou earth,
it should by earth; and if I should say it, it would be
done. And now, if the Lord has such great power,
and has wrought so many miracles among the children
of men, how is it that he cannot instruct me, that I
should build a ship?
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said many things
unto my brethren, insomuch that they were confound­
ed, and could not contend against me; neither durst
they lay their hands upon me, nor touch me with their
fingers even for the space of muny days. Now they
durst not do this, lest they should Wither before me,
so powerful was the spirit of God; and thus it had
wrought upon them.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me,
stretch forth thine hand again unto thy brethren, and
they shall not wither before tbee, but I will shock
them, saith the Lord and this will I do, that they may
know that I am the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that I stretched forth my hand
unto my brethren, and they did not wither before me;
but the Lord did shake them, even according to the
word which he had spoken. And now, they said, we
know of a surety, that the Lord is with thee, for we
know that it is the power of tire Lord that has shaken
us. And they fell down before me, and were about to
worship me, but I would not suffer them, saying, I am
thy brother, yea, even thy younger brother; where­
FIRST BOOK OF NEPH I. 51
fore, worship the Lord thy God, and honor thy father
and thy mother, that thy days may be long in the land
which the Lord thy God shall give thee.
And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord,
and did go forth with me; and we did work timbers of
curious workmanship. And the Lord did shew me
from time to time, after what manner I should work
the timbers of the ship. Now I, Nephi, did not work
the timbers after the manner which wa3 learned by
men, neither did I build the ship after the manner of
men; but I did build it after the manner which the
Lord had Bhewn unto me; wherefore, it was not after
the manner of men.
And I, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and I did
pray oft unto the Lord; wherefore, the Lord shewed
unto me great things.
And it came to pass that after I had finished the
ship according to the word of the Lord, my brethren
beheld that it was good, and that the workmanship
thereof was exceeding fine; wherefore, they did hum­
ble themselves again before the Lord.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came
unto my father, that we should arise and go down in­
to the ship. And it came to pass that on the morrow,
after we had prepared all things, much fruits and meat
from the wilderness, and honey in abundance, and
provisions, according to that which the Lord had com­
manded us, we did go down into the ship with all our
loading and our seeds, and whatsoever thing we had
brought with us, every one according to his age;
wherefore, we did all g» down into the ship, with our
wives and our children.
And now, my father had begat two sons, in the
wilderness: The eldest was called Jacob, and the
younger, Joseph. And it came to pass after we had
all gone down into the ship, and had taken with us
our provisions and things which had been commanded
us, we did put forth into the sea, and were driven
forth before the wind, towards the promised land; and
after we had been driven forth before the wind, for
the space of many days, behold my brethren, and the
sons of Ishmael, and also their wives, began to make
themselves merry, insomuch that they began to dance,
and to sing, and to speak with much rudeness, yea,
even that they did forget by what power they had
been brought thither; yea, they were lifted up unto
exceeding rudeness. And I, Nephi; began to fear ex­
58 FIRST BOOK OF KEPHJ.
ceedingly, lest the Lord should be angry with us, and
smite us, because of our iniquity, that we should be
swallowed up in the depths of the sea; wherefore, I,
Nephi, began to speak to them with much soberness;
but behold, they were angry with me, saying, we will
not that our younger brother shall be a ruler over us.
And it catne to pass that Laman and Lemuel did
take me and bind me with cords, and they did treat
me with much harshness; nevertheless, the Lord did
suffer it, that he might shew forth his power, unto the
fulhlling of his word wich he had spoken, concerning
the wicked.
And it came to pass that after they had bound me,
insomuch that I could not move, the compass, which
had been prepared of the Lord, did cease to. work;
wherefore, they knew not whither they should steer
the ship, insomuch, that there arose a great storm,
yea, a great and terrible tempest; and we were driv­
en back upon the waters for the space of three days;
and they began to be frightened exceedingly, lest they
should be drowned in the sea: nevertheless, they did
not loose me. And on the fourth day which we had
been driven back, the tempest began to be exceeding
sore. r
And it came to pass that we were about to be swal­
lowed up in the depths of the sea. And after we had
been driven back upon the waters for the space offour
days, my brethren began to see that the judgements of
God were upon them, and that they must perish, save
that they should repent of their iniquities; wherefore,
they came unto me and loosed the bands which were
upon my wrists, and behold, they had swollen exceed­
ingly; and also mine ancles were much swollen, and
great was the soreness thereof. Nevertheless, I did
Took unto my God, and I did praise him all the day
long; and I did not murmur against the Lord, because
of mine afflictions.
Now, my father Lehi, had said many things unto
them, and also unto the sons of Ishmaef; but behold,
they did breathe out much threutnings against any
one that should speak for me; and my parents being
stricken in years, and having suffered much grief be­
cause of their children, they were brought down, yea,
even upon their sick beds. Because of their grief, and
much sorrow, and the iniquity of my brethren, they
were brought near even to be carried out of this time,
to meet their God; yea, their, grey hairs wereabout to
FIRST BOOK OF S E P H I.
be brought down to lie low in the dust; yea, even
they were near to be cast into the watery grave. And
Jacob and Joseph also, being young,'having need of
much nourishment, were grieved because of the afflic­
tions of their mother; and also my wife, with her tears
and prayers, and also my children, did not soften the
hearts of my brethren, that they would loose me;
and there was nothing, save it were the power of God,
which threatened them with destruction, could soften
their hearts; wherefore, when they saw that they
were about to be swallowed up in the depths of the
sea, they repented of the thing which they had done,
insomuch thht they loosed me.
And it came to pass after they had loosed me, be­
hold, I took the compass, and it did work whither I
desired it. And it came to pass that I prayed unto
the Lord; and after I had prayed, the winds did cease,
and the storm did cease, and there was a great calm.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the
ship, that we sailed again towards the promised land.
And it came to pass that after we had sailed for the
space of many days, we did arrive to the promised
land; and we went forth upon the laud, and did pitch
our tents; and we did call it the promised land.
And it came to pass that we did begin to till the
earth, and we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put
all our seeds into the earth, which we had brought
from the land of Jerusalem. And it came to pass that
they did grow exceedingly; wherefore, we were bless­
ed in abundance.
And it came to pass that we did find upon the land
of promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that
there were beasts in the forests of every kind, both the
cow, and the ox, and the ass, and the horse, and the
goat, and the wild goat, and all manner of wild ani­
mals, which were for the use of men. And we did
find alt manner of ore, both of gold, and of silver, and
ofcopper.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded me,
wherefore I did make plates of ore, that I might en­
graven upon them the record of my people. And up­
on the plates which I made, I did engraven the re­
cord of my father, and also our journeyings in the
wilderness, and the prophecies of my father; and also
many of mine own prophecies have I engraven upon
them. And I knew not at the time when I made
them, that I should be commanded ;of the Lord to
S 3
54 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
make these plates; wherefore, the record of my fath­
er, and the genealogy ofhis fathers, and the more part
of all our proceedings in the wilderness, are engraven
upon those plates of which I have spoken; wherefore,
the things which transpired befoie I made these plates,
are, of a truth, more particularly made mention upon
the first plates.
And after I had made these plates by way of com­
mandment, I, Nephi, received a commandment, that
the ministry, and the prophecies, the more plain and
precious parts of them should be written upon these
plates; and that the thingswhich were written, should
be kept for the instruction of my people, who should
possess the land, and also for other wise purposes,
which purposes, are known unto the Lord; wherefore,
I, Nephi, did make a record upon the other plates,
which gives an account, or which gives a greater ac­
count of the wars, and contentions, and destructions
of my people. And this have I done, and commanded
my people what they should do, after I was gone, and
that these plates should be handed down from one gen­
eration to another, or from one prophet to another,
until further commandments of the Lord, And an
account of my making these plates shall be given
hereafter; and then, behold, I proceed according to
that which I have spoken; and this I do, that the
more sacred things may be kept for the knowledge of
my people. Nevertheless, I do not write any thing
upon plates, save it be that I think it be sacred.—
And now, if [ do err, even did they err of old. Not
that I would excuse myself because of other men, but
because of the weakness which is in me, according to
the flesh, I would excuse myself. For the things
which some men esteem to be of great worth, both to
the body and soul, others set at nought, and trample
under their feet. Yea, even the very God of Israel, do
men trample under their feet; I say, trample under
their feet: but 1 would speak in other words; They
set him at nought, and hearken not to the voice of
his counsels; and behold, he cometh according to
the words of the angel, in six hundred years from
the time my father left Jerusalem. And the world,
because of their iniquity, shall judge him to be a
thing of nought; wherefore, they scourge him, and
he suffereth it; and they smite him, and he suffereth
it. Yea, they spit upon him, and he Buffereth it, be­
cause of hiB loving kindness and his long suffering to­
MUST BOOK OF NKPHI. 65
wards the children of men. .And the God of our
fathers, who were led out ofjEgypt, out of bondage*
and also were preserved in'the wilderness by him;
yea, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, und the God
of Jacob, yieldetb himself according to the words of
the angel, as a man, into the hands of wicked men, to
be lifted up according to the words of Zenock, and to
be crucified, according to the words of Neum, and to
be buried in a sepulchre, according to the words of
Zenos, which he spake concerning the three days of
darkness, which should be a sign given of his death,
unto those who should inhabit the isles of the sea;
more especially given unto those who are of the
house of Israel. For thus spake the prophet, the
Lord God surely shall visit all the house of Israel at
that day; some with his voice, because of their right­
eousness, unto their great joy and salvation; and oth­
ers with the lliunderings and the lightnings of his
power, by tempest, by hre, and by smoke, and vapour
of darkness, and by the opening .of the earth, and by
mountains which shall be carried up; and all these
things must surely come, saith the prophet Zenos.—
And the rocks of the earth must rend; and because of
the groanings of the earth, many of the kings of the
isles of the sea shall be wrought upon by the spirit of
God, to exclaim, the God of nature sutlers. And as
for those who are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet,
shall be scourged by all people, because they crucify
the God of Israel, and turn their h<
God ot Israel; and because they turn their hearts aside,
saith the prophet, and have despised the Holy One of
Israel, they shall wander in the flesh, and perish, and
become a hiss and a by-word, and be hated among
all nations; nevertheless, when that day cometh, saith
the prophet, that they no more turn aside their hearts
against the Holy one of Israel, then will he remember
the covenants which he made to their fathers; yea,
then will he remember the isles of the sea; yea, and
all the people who are of the house of Israel, will I
gather in, saith the Lord, according to the words of
the prophet Zenos, fromthe fourquarters of the earth;
yea, and all the earth shall see the salvation of the
Lord, saith the prophet; every nation, kindred, tongue
And people, shall be blessed.
And 1, Nephi, have written these things unto my
people, that perhaps I might penuade them tint they
ing signs and wonders, and power
56 FIRST BOOK O r NEPHI.
would remember the Lord their Redeemer; wherefore*
I speak unto all the house of Israel, if it so be that
they should obtain these things. For behold, I have
workings in the spirit, which doth weary me, even
that all my joints are weak, for those who are at^Jeru­
salem: for had not the Lord been merciful, to shew
unto me concerningthem, even as he had prophets of
old, I should have perished also: and he surely did
shew unto the prophets of old, all things concerning
them; and also he did shew unto many concerning us;
wherefore, it must needs be, that we know concern­
ing them, for they are written upon the plates of brass.
CHAPTER VI.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, did teach my
brethren these things. And it came to pass that I did
read many things to them, which were engraven upon
the plates of brass, that they might know concerning
the doings of the Lord in other lands, among people of
old. And I did read many things unto them, which
were written in the book of Moses; but that I might
more fully persuade them to believe in the Lord their
Redeemer, I did read unto them that which was writ­
ten by the prophet Isaiah; for I did liken all scriptures
unto us, that it might be for our profit and learning.—
Wherefore, I spake unto them, saying, hear ye the
words of the prophet, ye who are a remnant of the
house of Israel, a branch who have been broken off;
hear ye the words of the prophet, which were written
unto all the house of Israel, and liken them unto your­
selves, that ye may have hope as well as your breth­
ren, from whom ye have been broken off. . For after
this manner has the prophet written: Hearken and
hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the
name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of
Judah, who swear by the name of the Lord, and make
mention of the God of Israel; yet they swear not in
truth, nor in righteousness. Nevertheless, they call
themselves of the Holy city, but they do not stay
themselves upon the God ofIsrael, who is the Lord of
hosts: yea, the Lord of hosts is his name. Behold, I
have declared the former things from the beginning;
SEC05D BOOK OF NEPHI. 57
and they went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed
them; 1 did shew them suddenly. And I did it be­
cause I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck was
an iron sinew, and thy brow brass; and I have,even from
the beginning, declared to thee; before it came to pas?
I shewed them thee; and I shewed them for fear lest
thou shouldst say, mine idol hath done them, and my
graven image, and my molten image, hath command­
ed them. Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will
ye not declare theml And that I have shewed thee
new things from this time, even hidden things, and
thou didst not know them. They are created now,
and not from the beginning; even before the day when
thou heardest them not, they we e declared unto thee,
lest thou shouldst say, behold, I knew them. Yea,
and thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea,
from that time thine ear was not opened: for I knew
that thou wouldst deal very treacherously, and wast
called a transgressor from the womb.
Nevertheless, for my name's sake will I defer mine
anger, and for my praise will I refrain from thee, that
I cut thee not off. For, behold, I have refined thee; I
have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. For
mine own sake, yea, for mine own sake, wiU I do this;
for I will not suiter my name to be polluted, and 1 wilt
not give my glory unto another.
Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called;
for I am he; I am the first, and I am also the last.—
-
Mine hand hath also laid the foundation of the earth,
and my right hand hath spanned the heavens: I call
unto them, and they stand up together. All ye, assem­
ble yourselves, and hear; who among them hath de­
clared these things unto them! The Lord hath loved
him: yea, and he will fulfil his word which he hath de­
clared by them; and he will do his pleasure on Bab­
ylon, and his arm shall come upon the Chaldeans.—
Also, saith the Lord: I the Lord, yea, I have spoken;
yea, I have called him, to declare, I have brought him,
and he shall make his way prosperous.
Come ye near unto me: I have not spoken in secret
from the beginning; from the time that it was declar­
ed, have I spoken; and the Lord God, and his spirit,
bath sent me. And thus saith the Lord, thy Redeem­
er, the Holy One of Israel: I have sent him, the Lord
thy God who teacheth thee to profit, who leadeth the®
by the way thou shouldst go, has done it. O that
thou hadst hearkened to my commandment I then had
68 FIRST BOOK OF K EPH I.
thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the
waves of the sea: thy seed also had been as the sand;
the offspring of Ihy bowels like the gravel thereof: his
name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from
before me.
Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans,
with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter to
the end of the earth; say ye, the Lord hath redeemed
Ins servant Jacob. And they thirsted not: he led them
through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out
of the rock for them: he clave the reck also, and the
waters gushed out. And notwithstanding he hath
done all this, and greater also, there is no peace, saith
the Lord unto the wicked.
And again: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, all ye
that are broken off and are driven out, because of the
wickedness of the pastors of my people; yea, all ye
that are broken off, that are scattered abroad, who are
of my people, O house of Israel. Listen 0 isles, unto
me; and hearken, ye people, from far; the Lord hath
called me from the womb; from the bowels of my
mother hath he made mention of my name. And he
hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shad­
ow of his hand hath he hid me, and made me a pol­
ished shaft: in his quiver hath he hid me; and said un­
to me, thou art my servant, 0 Israel, in whom I will
be glorified. Then I said, I have labored in vain, I
have spent my strength for nought, and in vain; surely,
myjudgment is with the Lord, and my work with my
And now, saith the Lord, that formed me from the
womb that I should be his servant, to bring Jacob again
to him: Though Israel be not gathered, yet shall 1 be
glorious in the eyes of the Lord, and my God shall be
my strength. And he said, it is a light thing that thou
shouldst be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob,
and to restore the preserved of Israel. I will also give
tbee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be
my salvation unto the ends ofthe earth. Thus saith the
Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to him
whom man despiseth, to him whom the nations abhor­
red!, to servant of rulers, kings shall see and arise,
princes also shall worship, because of the Lord that is
faithful. Thus saith the Lord, in an acceptable time
have I heard' thee, Q isles of the sea, and in a day of
salvation have I helped thee: and I will preserve thee,
and give thee my servant for.a covenant ofthe people,
first book of kephi. 59
to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate
heritages: that thou mayest say to the prisoners, Go
forth; to them that sit in darkness, Shew yourselves.
They shall feed in the ways, and their pastures shall
be in all high places. They shall not hunger nor
thirst, neither shall the heat nor the sun smite them:
for he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even
by the springs of water shall he guide them. And I
will make all my mountains away, and my highways
shall be exalted. And then, O house of Israel, behold,
these shall come from far; and lo, these from the north
and front the west; and these from the land of Sin-
im.
Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the
feet of those who are in the east shall be established;
and break forth into singing, O mountains: for they
shall be smitten no more: for the Lord hath comforted
his people, and will have mercy upon his afflicted.—
But, behold, Zion hath said, the Lord hath forsaken
me, and my Lord hath forgotten me; but he will shew
that he hath not. For can a woman forget her sucking
child, that she should not have compassion on the son
of her womb! Yea, they may forget, yet will I not
forget thee, 0 house of Israel. Behold, I have gra­
ven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls are
continually before me. Thy children shall make haste
against thy destroyers; and they that made thee waste,
shall go forth of thee.
Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: all these
gather themselves together, and they shall come to
thee. And as I live, saith the Lord, thou shalt surely
clothe thee with them all, as with an ornament, and
bind them on even as a bride. For thy waste and thy
desolate places, and the land of thy destruction, shall
even now be too narrow by reason of the inhabitants;
and they that swallowed thee up, shall be far away.—
The children whom thou shalt have, after thou hast
lost the first, shall again in thine ears say, the place
is too straightfor me; give place to me that I may dwell.
Then shalt thou say in thine heart, who hath begotten
me these, seeing I have lost my children, and amdeso­
late, a captive, and removing to and fro? and who
hath brought up these? Behold, I was left alone;
these, where have they been? Thus saith the Lord
God, behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles,
and set up my standard to the people: and they shall
bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall
FIRST BOOK OF N S P H I.
be carried upon their shoulders. And kings shall be
thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing
mothers: they shall bow down to thee with their face
towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet;
and thou shalt know that I am the Lord: for they
shall not be ashamed that wait for me. For shall the
prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives
delivered? But thus saith the Lord, even the captives
of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the
terrible shall be delivered; for I will contend with him
thatcontendeth with thee, and I will save thy children.
And I will feed them that oppress thee with their
own flesh; they Bhall be drunken with their own blood,
as with "sweet wine: and all flesh shall know that I
the Lord am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the migh­
ty one of Jacob.
)
m
CHAPTER VII.
Asd now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had
read these things which were engraven upon the plates
of brass, my brethren came unto me and said unto me,
what meaneth these things which ye have read! Be­
hold, are they to be understood according to things
which are spiritual, which shall come to pass accor­
ding to the spirit and not the flesh? And I, Nephi,
said unto them, behold, they were manifest unto the
prophet, by the voice of the spirit: for by the spirit
are all things made known unto the prophots, which
shall come upon the children of men according to the
flesh. Wherefore, the things of which I have read,
are things pertaining to things both temporal and spir­
itual: for it appears that the house of Israel, sooner or
later, will be scattered upon all the face of the earth,
and also among all nations, and behold there are many
who are already lost from the knowledge of those who
are at Jerusalem. Yea, the more part of all the tribes
have been led away; and they are scattered to and fro
upon the isles of the sea: ana whither they are, none
of us knoweth, save that we know that they have been
led away. And since they have been led away, these
things have been prophesied concerning them, and al­
so concerning all those who shall hereafter be scatter­
FIRST BOOK OF HKFHI. 61
ed and be confounded, because of the holy One of Is­
rael; for against him will they harden their hearts;
wherefore, they shall be scattered among all nations,
and shall be h&ted of all mem Nevertheless, after
they shall be nursed by the Gentiles, and the Lord has
lifted up his hand upon the Gentiles and set them up
for a standard,- and their children have been carried in
their arms, and their daughters have been carried upon
their shoulders, behold, these things of which are spo­
ken, are temporal: for thus is the covenants of the
Lord with our fathers; and it meaneth us in the days
to come, and also all our brethren who are of the house
of Israel. And it meaneth that the time cometh that
after all the house of Israel have been scattered and
confounded, that the Lord God will raise up a mighty
nation among the Gentiles, yea, even upon the face of
this land; and by them shall our seed be scattered.—
And after our seed is scattered, the Lord God will pro­
ceed to do a marvellous work among the Gentiles,
which shall be of great worth unto our seed; where­
fore, it is likened unto the being nourished by the
Gentiles, and being carried in their arms, and upon
their shoulders. And it shall also be of worth unto
the Gentiles; and not only unto the Gentiles, but unto
all the house of Israel, unto the making known of the
covenants of the Father of heaven unto Abraham, say­
ing, in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be
blessed. And I would, my brethren, that ye should
know that all the kindreds of the earth cannot be bles­
sed, unless he shall make bare his arm in the eyes
of the nations. Wherefore, the Lord God will pro­
ceed to make bare his arm in the eyes of all the na­
tions, in bringing about his covenants and his gospel,
unto those who are of the house of Israel. Wherefore,
he will bring them again out of caplivitj and they shall
he gathered together to the lands of their inheritance:
and they shall be brought out of obscurity, and out of
darkness; and they shall know that the Lord is their
Savior and their Redeemer, the mighty one of Israel.
And the blood of that great and abominable church,
which isthe whore ofall the earth, shall turn upon their
own heads; for they shall war among themselves, and
the sword of their own hands shall fall upon their own
heads, and they shall be drunken with their own blood.
And every nation which shall war against thee, O
house of Israel, shall be turned one against another,
and they shall fall into the pit which they, digged to
62 FIRST BOOK OF NEPH I.
ensnare the (people of the Lord. And'all that fight
against Zion, shall be destroyed. And that great
whore, who hath perverted the right ways ofthe Lord;
yea, that great and abominable church, shall tumble to
the dust, and great shall be the fall of it For behold,
saith the prophet, the time cometh speedily, that sa-
tan shall have no more power over the hearts of the
children of men: for the day soon cometh, that all the
proud and they who do wickedly, shall be as stubble;
and the day cometh that they must be burned. For
the time soon cometh, that the fulness of the wrath of
God shall be poured out upon all the children of men:
for he will not suffer that the wicked shall destroy the
righteous. Wherefore, he will preserve the righteous
by his power, even if it so be that the fulness of his
wrath must come, and the righteous be preserved, even
unto the destruction of their enemies by Sre. Where­
fore, the righteous need not fear: for thus saith the
prophet, they shall be saved, even if it so be as by fire.
Behold, my brethren, Isay unto you, that these things
must shortly come; yea, even blood, and fire, and va­
por of smoke must come; and it must needs be upon
the face of this earth; and it cometh unto men accor­
ding to the flesh, if it so be that they will harden their
hearts against the Holy One of Israel: for behold, tfce
righteous shall not perish; for the time surely must
come, that all they who fight against Zion, shall be cut
off. And the Lord will surely prepare a way for his
people, unto the fulfilling of the words of Moses, which
lie spake, saying; A prophet shall the Lord your God
raise up unto you, like unto me; him shall ye hear in
all things whatsoever he shall say unto you. And it
shall come to pass that all those who will not hear
that prophet, shall be cut off from among the people.
And now I, Nephi, declare unto you, that this proph­
et of whom Moses spake, was the Holy One of Israel;
wherefore, he shall execute judgment in righteousness;
and the righteous need not tear, for they are those who
shall not be confounded. But it is the kingdom of the
devil which shall be built up among the children of
men, which kingdom is established among them which
are in the flesh: for the time speedily shall come, that
all churches which are built up to get gain, and all
those who are built up to get power over tae flesh, and
those who are built up to become popular in the eyes
of the world, and those who seek the lnsts of the flesh
and the things of the world, and to do all maimer of
FIRST BOOK OF N E F in . 63
iniquity; yea, in fine, all those who belong to the king­
dom of the devil, are they who need fear, and tremble,
and quake; they are those who must be brought low
in the dust; they are those who must be consumed as
stubble: and this is according to the words of the
prophet. And the time cometh speedily, that the
righteous must be led up as calves of the stall, and the
Holy One of Israel must reign in dominion, and might,
and power, and great glory. And he gathereth his
children from the four quarters of the earth; and
he numberedh his’sheep, and they know him; and there
shall be one fold and one shepherd: and he shall feed
his sheep, and in him they shall find pasture. And
because of the righteousness of hiB people, satan has
no power; wherefore, he cannot be loosed for the
space of many years; for he hath no power over the;
hearts of the people, for they dwell in righteousness,
of Israel reigneth. And now be-
must come according to the flesh. But, behold, all
nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, shall dwell
safely in ihe Holy One of Israel, if it so be that they
will repent. ♦
And now I, Nephi, make an end; for I durst not
speak further as yet, concerning these things. Where­
fore, my brethren, I would that ye should consider
that the things which have been written upon the
plates of brass, are true; and they testify that a man
must be obedient to the commandments of God.—
Wherefore, ye need not suppose that I and my father
are the only ones that have testified, and also taught
them. Wherefore, if ye shall be obedient to the com­
mandments, and endure to the end, ye shall be saved
at the last day. And thus it is. Amen,
unto you, that all these things
THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
CHAPTER I.
An account of the death of Lehi. Nephi’s brethren re-
bellcth against him. The Lord warns Nephi to de~
part into the wilderness. His journeyings in the wild­
erness, <
$
’C
.
AtfD now it came to pass after I, Nephi, had made
an end of teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also
spake many things unto them, how great things the
Lord had done for them, in bringing them out of the
land of Jerusalem. And he spake unto them concern­
ing their rebellions upon the waters, and the mercies
of Godin sparing their lives, that they were not swal­
lowed up in the sea. And he also spake unto them
concerning the land of promise, which they had ob­
tained: how merciful the Lord had been in warning
us that we should flee out of the land of Jerusalem.—
For, behold, said he, I have seen a vision, in which I
know that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remain­
ed in Jerusalem, we should also have perished. But,
said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have ob­
tained aland of promise, a land which is choice above
all other lands; aland which the Lord God hath cove­
nanted with me should be a land for the inheritance
of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land
unto me, and to my children forever; and also all those
who should be led out of other countries, by the hand
of the Lord. Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according
to the workings of the spirit which is in me, that there
shall none come into this land, save they shall be
brought by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, this
land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring.—
And if it so be that they shall serve him according to
the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a
land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never
be brought down into captivity: if so, it shall be be­
cause of iniquity: for if iniquity shall abound, cursed
shall be the land for their sakes; but unto the right­
eous, it shall be blessed forever. And behold, it is
wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from the
knowledge of other nations: for behold, many nations
SECOND BOOK OF NEPK1. 65
would overrun the land, that there would be no place
for an inheritance. Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtain­
ed a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the Lord
God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep
his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face
of this lard; and they shall be kept from all other na­
tions. that they may possess this land unto themselves.
And if it so be that they shall keep his commandments,
they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and
there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away
the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safe­
ly forever. But behold, when the time cometh that
they shall dwindle in unbelief, after they have receiv­
ed so great blessings from the hand of the Lord; hav­
ing a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all
men, knowing the great and marvellous works of the
Lord from the creation of the world; having power giv­
en them to do all things by faith; having all the com­
mandments from the beginning, and having been bro't
by his infinite goodness into this precious land of prom­
ise; behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will
reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their
Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of
him that is just, shll rest upon them; yea, he will
bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto
them power, and he will take away from them the
lands of their possessions; and he will cause them to
be scattered and smitten. Yea, as one generation paB-
seth to another, there shall be bloodsheads and great
visitations among them; wherefore, my sons, I would
that ye would remember; yea, I would that ye would
hearken unt® my words. O that ye would awake;
awake from a deep sleep, yea, even from the sleep of
hell, and shake off the awful chains by which ye are
bound, which are the chains which bind the children
of men, that they are carried away captive down to
the eternal gulf of misery and wo1 Awakel and arise
from the dust, and hear the words of a trembling pa­
rent, whose limbs ye must soon lay down in the cold
and silent grave, from whence no traveller can return;
a few more days, and I go the way of all the earth.—
But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from
hell: I have beheld his glory, and I am encircled about
eternally in the arms of his love. And 1desire that
ye should remember to observe the statutes and the
judgments of the Lord: behold, this hath been the
G6 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
anxiety of my sou!, from the beginning. My heart
hath been weighed down with sorrow from time to
time: for I have feared, lest for the hardness of your
hearts, the Lord your God should come out in the ful­
ness of his wrath, upon yon, that ye be cut off and
destroyed lbrever; or, that a cursing should come up­
on you for the space of many generations; and ye are
visited by sword, and by famine, and are hated, and
are led according to the will and captivity of the devil.
O my sons, that these things might not come upon you,
but that ye might he a choice and a favored people of
the Lord. Hut, behold, his will be done: for his ways
are righteousness forever; and lie hath said, that inas­
much as ye shall keep my commandments,ye shall pros­
per in the land; but inasmuch as ye will not keepmy
commandments, ye shall he cut off from my presence,
and now that my soul might have joy in you, and that
my heart might leave this world with gladness because
of you; that I might not be brought down with grief
and sorrow to the grave, arise from the dust, my sons,
and be men, and oe determined in one mind, and in
one heart united in all things, that ye may not come
down into captivity; that ye may not be cursed with
a sore cursing; and also, that ye may not incur the
displeasure of a just God upon you, unto the destruc­
tion, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and
body. Awake, my sons: put on the armor of right­
eousness. Shake off the chains with which ye are
bound, and come forth out of obscurity, and arise from
the dust. Rebel no more against your brother, whose
views have been glorious, and who hath kept the com­
mandments from the time that we left Jerusalem, and
who hath been an instrument in the hands of God, in
bringing us forth into the land of promise: for were it
not for him, we must have perished with hunger in
the wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought to take away
his life; yea, and he hath suffered much sorrow be­
cause of you. And I exceedingly fear and tremble be­
cause of you, lest he shall suffer again: for behold, ye
have accused him that he sought power and authority
over you; but I know that he hath not sought for
power nor authority over you; but he hath sought the
glory of God, and your own eternal welfare. And ye
have murmured because he hath been plain unto you.
Te say that he hath used sharpness; ye say that he
# hath been angry with you. But behold, his sharp­
ness was the sharpness of the power of the word of
SECOND BOOK OF K EFH I, 67
God, which was in him; and that which ye call anger,
was the truth, according to that which is in God,
which he could not restrain manifesting boldly con­
cerning your iniquities. And it must needs be that
the power of God must be with him, even unto his
commanding you, that ye must obey. But behold, it
was not him, but it was the spirit of the Lord which
was in him, which opened his mouth to utterance,
that he could not shut it.
And now my son Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam,
and also my sons who are the sons of Ishmael, behold,
if ye will hearken unto the voice of Nephi, ye shall not
perish. And if ye will hearken unto him, I leave un­
to you a blessing, yea, even my first blessing. But if
ye will not hearken unto him, I take away my first
blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon
him. And now, Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold,
thou art the servant of Laban; nevertheless, thou
hast been brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and I
know that thou art a true triend unto my son Nephi,
forever. Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful,
thy seed shall be blessed with liisseed, that they dwell
in prosperity long upon the face of this land; and
nothing, save it shall be iniquity among them, shall
harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face of this
land forever. Wherefore, if ye shall keep the com­
mandments of the Lord, the Lord hath consecrated
this land for the security of thy seed with the seed of
my son. And now, Jacob, I speak unto you: Thou
art my first born in the days of my tribulation in the
wilderness. And behold, in thy childhood thou hast
suffered afflictions and much sorrow, because of the
rudeness of thy brethren. Nevertheless, Jacob, my
first born in 1he wilderness, thou knowest the great­
ness of God; and he shall consecrate thine afflictions
for thy gain. Wherefore, thy soul shall be blessed,
and thou shall dwell safely with thy brother, Nephi;
and thy <!ays.shall be spent in the service of thy God.
Wherefore, I know that thou art redeemed, because
of the righteousness of thy Redeemer: for thou hast
beheld, that in the fulness of time, he cometh to bring
salvation unto men. And thou hast beheld in thy
youth, his glory; wherefore, thou art blessed even aq
they unto whom he shall minister in the flesh: for the
spirit is the same, yesterday, to-day, and forever.—
And the way is prepared from the fallof man, and sal- •
vation is free. And men are instructed sufficiently,
6 8 SBCOHD BOOS OF NEPHI.
that they know good from evil. And the law is given
unto men. And by the law, no flesh is justified; or,
by the law, men are cut off. Yea, by the temporal
law, they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law
they perish from that which is good, and become mis­
erable forever. Wherefore, redemption cometh in and
through the holy Messiah: for he is full of grace and
truth. Behold, he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin,
to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have
a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto none
else can the ends of the law be answered. Wherefore,
how great the importance to make these things known
unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know
that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of
God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and
grace of the holy Messiah, who layeth down his life
according to the flesh, andtaketh it again by the pow­
er of the spirit, that he may bring to pass the resur­
rection of the dead, being the first that should rise.—
Wherefore, he is the first fruits unto God, inasmuch as
he shall make intercession for all the children of men;
and they that believe in him, shall be saved. And be­
cause of the intercession for all, all men come unto
God; wherefore, they stand in the presence of Him,
to be judged of Him, according to the truth and holi­
ness which is in Him. Wherefore, the ends of the law
which the Holy One hath given, unto the inflicting of
the punishment which is affixed, which punishment
that is affixed is in opposition to that of the happiness
which is affixed, to answer the ends of the atonement;
for it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all
things. If not so, my first born in the wilderness,
righteousness could not be brought to pass; neither
wickedness; neither holiness nor misery; neither good
nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a com­
pound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body, it
must needs remain as dead, having no life, neither
death nor corruption, nor incorruption, happiness nor
misery, .neither sense nor insensibility. Wherefore,
it must needs have been created for a thing of nought;
wherefore, there would have been no purpose in the
end of its creation. Wherefore, this tiling must needs
destroy the wisdom of God, and his eternal purposes;
and also, the power, and the mercy, and the justice of
God. And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall al-
* so say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin,
ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if
SECOND BOOK OF K EPH I. 69
there be no righteousness, there be no happiness.—
And if there be no righteousness nor happiness, there
be no punishment nor misery. And if these things
are not, there is no God. And if there is no God, we
are not, neither the earth: for there could have been
no creation of tilings, neither to act nor to be act­
ed upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished
away.
And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things,
for your profit and learning: for there is a God, and
he hath created all things, both the heavens and the
earth, and all things that in them is; both things to
act, and things to be acted upon; and to bring about
his eternal purposes in the end of man, after he had
created our first parents, and the beasts of the field
and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which
are created, it must needs be that there was an oppo­
sition; even the forbidden fruit in opposition to the
tree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter;
wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man, that he
should act for hitnself. Wherefore, man could not
act for himself, save it should be that he was enticed
by the one or the other.
And I, Lebi, according to the things which I have
read, must needs suppose, that an angel of God, ac­
cording to tiiat which is written, had fallen from heav­
en; wherefore he became a devil, having sought that
which was evil before God. And because he had fall­
en from heaven, and had become miserable forever, he
sought also the misery of all mankind. Wherefore, he
said unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent, who is the
devil, who is the father of all lies; wherefore he said,
partake of the forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die,
but ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil. And
after Adam and Eve had partaken of the forbidden
fruit, they weie driven out of the garden of Eden, to
till the earth. And they have brought forth children;
yea, even the family of all the earth. And the days
of the children of men were prolonged, according to
the will of God, that they might repent while in the
flesh; wherefore, their state became a slate of proba­
tion, and their time was lengthened, according to the
commandments which the Lord God gave unto the
children ofmen. For he gave commandment that all
men must repent; for he shewed unto all men that
they were lost, because of the transgression of their
parents. And now, behold, if Adam had not trans-
70 SECOND BOOK OF NEFHI.
greased, he would not have fallen; but he would have
remained in the garden of Eden. And all things
which were created, must have remained in the same
state which they were, after they were created; and
they must have remained forever, and had no end. And
they would have had no children; wherefore, they
would have remained in a state of innocence, having
no joy, for they knew no misery: doing no good, for
they knew no sin. But behold, all things have been
done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things.—
Adam fell, that men might be; and men are, that they
might have joy. And the Messiah comelh in the ful­
ness of time, that he may redeem the children of men
from the fall. And because that they are redeemed
from the fall, they have become free forever, knowing
good from evil; to act for themselves, and not to be
acted upon, save it be by the punishment of the law,
at the great and last day, according to the command­
ments which God hath given. Wherefore, men are
free according to the flesh; and all things are given
them which are expedient unto man. And they are
free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the
great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and
death, according to the captivity and power of the
devil: for he seeketh that ail men might be miserable
like unto himself.
And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to
the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great com­
mandments; and be faithful unto his words, and
choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy
Spirit, and not choose eternal death, according to the
will of the flesh and the evil which is therein, which
giveth the spirit of the devib power to captivate, to
bring you down to hell, that he may reign over you in
his own kingdom.
I have spoken these few words unto you all, my
sons, in the last days of my probation; and I have
chosen the good part, according to the words of the
prophet. And I have none other object, save it be the
everlasting welfare ofyour souls. Amen.
1
-;»A "
i< .bwJfc,;
0
SECOND BOOK OF KEPH I. 71
CHAPTER II. ' ' a.
And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my last bom.
Thou wast horn in the wilderness of mine afflictions;
yea, in the days of my greatest sorrow, did thy moth­
er bear thee. And may the Lord consecrate also unto
thee this land, which is a most precious land, tor thine
inheritance and the inheritance of thy seed with thy
brethren, for thy security forever, if it so be that yc
shall keep the commandments of the Holy One of Is­
rael. And now, Joseph, my last born, whom 1 have
brought out of the wilderness of mine afflictions, may
the Lord bless thee forever, for thy seed shall not ut­
terly be destroyed. For behold, thou art the fruit of
my loins; and 1 am a descendant of Joseph, who was
carried captive into Egypt. And great were the cov­
enants of the Lord, which he made unto Joseph;
wherefore, Joseph truly saw our day. And he ob­
tained a promise of the Lord, that out of the fruit of
his loins, the Lord God would raise up a righteous
branch unto the house of Israel; not the Messiah, but
a branch which was to be broken off; nevertheless, to
be remembered in the covenants of the Lord, that the
Messiah should be made manifest unto them in the
latter days, in the spirit of power, unto the bringing
of them out of darkness unto light; yea, out of hidden
darkness and out of captivity unto freedom. For Jo­
seph truly testified, saying: A seer shall the Lord my
God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit
of my loins. Yea, Joseph truly said, thus soith the
Lord unto me: A choice seer will I raise up out of
the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteemed highly
among the fruit of thy loins. And unto him will I
give commandment, that he shall do a work for the
fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shall be of great
worth unto them, even to the bringing of them to the
knowledge of the covenants which I have made with
thy fathers. » And I will give unto him a command­
ment, that he shall do none other work, save the work
which 1 shall command him. And I will make him
fre&t in mine eyes: for he shall do my work. And
e shall be great like unto Moses, whom I have said I
would raise up unto you,- to deliver my people, O
house of Israel. And Moses will I raise up, to deliver
thy people out of the land of Egypt. But a seer wild
I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and 'unto him
will I give power to bring forth my word unto the
72 SECOND BOOK OF K EPH I.
seed of thy loins; and not to the bringing forth my
word only, saith the Lord, but to the convincing them
of my word, which shall have already gone forth
among them. Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall
write; and the fruit of the loins of Judah shall write;
and that which shall be written by the fruit of thy
loins, and also that which shall be written by the
fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together, unto
the confounding of false doctrines, and laying down
of contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit
of thy loins, and bringing them to the knowledge of
their fathers in the latter days; and also to the know­
ledge of my covenants, saitli the Lord. And out of
weakness he shall be made strong, in that day when
my work shall commence among all my people, unto
the restoring thee, O house of Israel, saith the Lord.
And thus prophesied Joseph, saying; Behold, that
seer will the Lord bless; and they that seek to des­
troy him, shall be confounded: for this promise, of
which I have obtained of the Lord, of the fruit of thy
loins, shall be fulfilled. Behold, I am sure of the ful­
filling of this promise. And his name shall be called
after me; and it shall be after the name of his father.
And he shill be like unto me; for the thing which the
Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power of
the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation; yea,
thus prophesied Joseph, I am sure of this thing, even
as I am sure oT the promise of Moses: for the Lord
hath said unto me, I will preseive thy seed forever.
And the Lord hath said, I will raise up a Moses; and
I will give power unto him in a rod; and I will give
judgement unto him in writing. Yet I will not loose
his tongue, that he shall speak much; for I will not
make him mighty in speaking. But I will write unto
him my law, by the finger of mine own hand; and I
will make a spokesman for him. And the Lord said
unto me also, I will raise up unto the fruit of thy
loins; and I will make for him a a spokesman. And
I, behold, I will give unto him,* that he shall write
the writing of the fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of
thy loins; and the spokesman of thy loins shall de­
clare it. <
iAnd the words which he shall write, shall
be the words which are expedient in my wisdom,
should go forthbunto the fruit of thy loins. And it
shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried unto
them from the dast: ,for I know their faith. And
they shall-cry from the dust; yea* even repentance
SECOND BOOK OF B£FHI< 73
unto their brethren, even after many generations have
gone by them. And it shall eome to pass that their
cry shall go, even according to the simpleness of their
words. Because of their faith, their words shall pro­
ceed forth out of my mouth unto their brethren, who
are the fruit of thy loins; and the weakness of their
words will I make strong in their faith, unto the re­
membering of my covenant which I made unto tby
fathers.
And now, behold, my son Joseph, after this manner
did my father of old prophesy. Wherefore, because
of this covenant thou art blessed: for thy seed shall
not be destroyed, for they shall hearken unto the
words of the book. And there shall raise up one
mighty among them, who shall do much good, both
in word and in deed, being an instrument in the hands
of God, with exceeding faith, to work mighty won­
ders, and do that thing which is great in the sight of
God, unto the bringing to pass much restoration unto
the house of Israel, and unto the seed of thy brethren.
And now, blessed art thou, Joseph. Behold, thou art
little; wherefore, hearken unto the #words of thy
brother Neplii, and it shall be done unto thee, even
according to the words which I have spoken. Re­
member the words of thy dying father. Amen,
CHAPTER III. . •-. \ /
Atm now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophe­
cies of which my father hath spoken, concerning Jo­
seph, who was carried into Egypt: For behold, he
truly prophesied concerning all his seed. And the
prophecies which he wrote, there are not many greater. ,
And he prophesied concerning us, and our future gen- M
eralions; and they are written upon the plates of *\
brass. Wherefore, after my father ^had made an*endi
of speaking concerning the prophecies of Joseph, he*
called the children of Lamau, his sons, and liis daugh­
ters, and said unto them, behold, my sons, and' ray*
daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of ray
first born, I would that ye should give ear unto my
words: for the Lord God hath said, that inasmuch as
74 SECOXD BOOS o r NEFH I.
ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper
in the land; and inasmuch as ye will not keep my
commandments, ye shall be cut off from my presence.
But behold, my sons and my daughters, 1 cannot go
down to my grave, save I should leave a blessing up­
on you: For behold, I know that if ye are brought
up in the way ye should go, ye will not depart from
it. Wherefore, if ye are cursed, behold, I leave my
blessing upon you, that the cursing may be taken
from you, and be answered upon the heads of your
parents. Wherefere, because of my blessing, the
Lord God will not suffer that ye shall perish; where­
fore, he will be merciful unto you, and unto your seed
forever.
And it came to pass that after my father had made *
an end of speaking to the sons and daughters of La-
man, he caused the sons and daughters of Lemuel to
be brought before him. And he spake unto them,
saying; Behold, my sons and my daughters, who are
the sons and the daughters of my second son; behold,
I leave unto you the same blessing which I left unto
the sons and daughters of Laman; wherefore, thou
shalt not utterly he destroyed; but in the end thy
seed shall be blessed.
And it came to pass that when my father had made
an end of speaking unto them, behold, he spake unto
the sons of Ishmael, yea, and even all his household.
And after he had made an end of speaking unto them,
he spake unto Sam, saying: Blessed art thou, and thy
seed; for thou shalt inherit the land, like unto thy
brother Nephi. And thy seed shall be numbered with
his seed; and thou shalt be even like unto thy broth­
er, and thy seed like unto his seed; and thou shalt be
blessed in all thy days. *
And it came to pass after my father Lehi had spok­
en unto all his household, according to the feelings of
bis heart, and the spirit of the Lord which was in
him, he waxed old. And it came to pass tiiat he died,
and was buried.
And it came to pass that not many days after his
death, Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael,
were angry with me because of the admonitions ofthe
Lord: for I, Nephi, was constrained to speak unto
them, according to his word. For I had spake many
things unto them, and also my father, before his
death; many of which sayings, are written upon
mine other plates: for a more history part are written
SECOXD BOOK OP R S rifl.
upon mine other plates. And upon these, I write the
thing* of my soul, and many of the scriptures which
are engraven upon the plates of braes: For my soul
delightcth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth
them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit
of my children. Behold, my soul delighteth in the
things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth continu­
ally upon the things which I have seen and heard.—
Nevertheless, the great goodness of the Lord, in
shew ing me his great and marvellous works, my heart
exclaimeih, O wretched man that I am; yea, my heart
sorroweth because of my flesh. My soul grievetb be­
cause of mine iniquities. I am encompassed about
because of the temptations and the sins which doth SO
easily beset me. And when I desire to rejoice, my
heart groaneth because of my sins; nevertheless, 1
know in whom I have trusted. My God hath ■
been
my support; he hath led me through mine afflictions
in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the
waters of the great deep. He hath filled me with his
love, even unto the consuming of my flesh. He hath
confounded mine enemies, unto the causing of them
to quake before me. Behold, he hath heard my cry
by day, and he hath given me knowledge by visions in
the night time. Ana by day have I waxed bold in
mighty prayer before him; yea, my voice have I sent
up on high; and angels came down and ministered
unto me. And upon the wings of his spirit hath my
body been carried away upon exceeding high moun­
tains. And mine eyes have beheld great things; yea,
even too great for man; therefore I was bidden that I
should not write them. O then, if 1 have seen so
great tilings; if the Lord in his condescension unto
the children of men, hath visited men in so much mer­
cy, why should my heart weep, and my soul linger in
the valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and
ray strength slacken, because of mine afflictions? And
why should I yield to Bin, because of my flesh? Yea,
why should I give way to temptations, that the evil
one have place in my heart, to destroy my peace and
afflict my soul? Why am I angry because of mine
enemy? Awake, my soull No longer droop in sin.
Rejoice O my heart, and give place no more for the
enemy of my soul. Do not anger again, because of
mine enemies- Do not slacken my strength, because
of mine afflictions. Rejoice, 0 my heart, and cry un­
to the Lord, and say, 0 Lord, Xwill praise ,thee for­
76 SECOND BOOK OF NEFHI.
ever; yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God, and
the rock of my salvation. O Lord, wilt thou redeem
my soult Wilt thou deliver me out of the hands of
mine enemies? Wilt thou make me that I may shake
at the appearance of sin? May the gates of hell be
shut continually before me, because that my heart is
broken and my spirit is contrite? O Lord, wilt thou
not shut the gates of thy righteousness before me,
that I may walk in the path of the low valley, that 1
may be strict in the plain road? O Lord, wilt thou
encircle me around in the rob? of thy righteousness?
0 Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape before
mine enemies? Wilt thou make my path straight be­
fore me? Wilt thou not place a stumbling block in
my way? But that thou wouldest clear my way be­
fore me, and hedge not up my way, but the ways of
of mine enemy. O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and
1 will trust in thee forever. I will not put my trust
in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh. Yea, cursed is
lie that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh his
arm. Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him
that asketh. Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not
amiss: therefore I will lift up my voice unto thee;
yea, I will cry unto thee, my God, the rock of my
righteousness. Behold, my voice shall forever ascend
up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God.
Amen.
CHAPTER IV.
Bkhold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry
much unto the Lord my God, because of the anger of
ray brethren. But behold, their anger did increase
against me; insomuch that they did seek to take away
my life. Yea, they did murmur against me, saying:
Our younger brother thinks to rule over us; and we
have had much trial because of him; wherefore, now
let us slay him, that we may not be addicted more be­
cause of his words. For behold, we will not have
him to be our ruler; for it belongs unto us, who are
the elder brethren, to rule over this people. Now I
do not write upon these-plates, all the’words which-
they murmured against me. But it sufficeth me to
say, that they did seek to take away my life.
And it came to pass that the Lord did warn me,
that I, Nephi, should depart from them, and flee into
the wilderness, and all those who would go with me.
Wherefore, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my
family, and also Zoram and his family, and Sam,
mine elder brother, and his family, and Jacob and Jo­
seph, my younger brethren, and also my sisters, and
all those who would go with me. And all those who
would go with me, were those who believed in the
warnings and the revelations of God; wherefore, they
did hearken unto my words. And we did take our
tents and whatsoever things were possible for us, and
did journey in the wilderness for the space of many
days. And after we had journied for the space of
many days, we did pitch our tents. And my people
would that we should call the name of the place Ne­
phi; wherefore, we did call it Nephi. And all those
who were with me, did take upon them to call them­
selves the people of Nephi. And we did observe to
keep the judgments, and the statutes, and the com­
mandments ofthe Lord, in all things, according to the
law of Moses. And the Lord was with us; and we did
prosper exceedingly: for we did sow seed, and we did
reap again in abundance. And we began to raise
flocks, and herds, and animals of every kind. And 1,
Nephi, had also brought the records which were en­
graven upon the plates of brass; and also the ball, or
compass, which was prepared for my father, by the
hand of the Lord, according to that which is written.
And it came to pass that we began to prosper ex­
ceedingly, and to multiply in the land. And I, Ne­
phi, did take the sword of Laban, and after the man­
ner of it did make many swords, lest by any means
the people who were now called Lamanites, should
come upon us and destroy us; for I knew their hatred
towards me and my children, and those who were
called my people. And I did teach my people, to
build buildings; and to work in all manner of wood,
and of iron, and of copper, and of brass, and of steel,
and of gold, and ofsilver, and of precious ores, which
were in great abundance. And I, Nephi, did build a
temple; and I did construct it after the manner of the
temple of Solomon, save it were not built of so many
precious things: for they were not to be found upon
the land; wherefore, it could not be built like unto
stcoiro book or skpeti. 7 t
78 SECOND BOOK OF NBPH I.
Solomon’s temple. But the manner of the construc­
tion was like unto the temple of Solomon; and the
workmanship thereof was exceeding fine.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my
people to be industrious, and to labor with their hands.
And it came to pass that they would that I should be
their king. But I, Nephi," was desirous that they
should have no king; nevertheless, I did for them ac-
cording to that which was in my power. And be­
hold, the words of the Lord had been fulfilled unto
my brethren, which he spake concerning them, that I
should be their ruler and their teacher; wherefore, I
had been their ruler and their teacher, according to
the commandments of the Lord, until the time they
sought to take away my life. Wherefore, the word
of the Lord was fulfilled which he spake unto me,
saying: That inasmuch as they will not hearken un­
to thy words, they shall be cut off from the presence
of the Lord. And behold, they were cut off from his
presence. And he had caused the cursing to come
upon them, yea, even a sore cursing, because of their
iniquity. For behold, they had hardened their hearts
against him, that they had become like unto a flint;
wherefore, as they were white, and exceeding fair and
delightsome, that they might not be enticing unto my
people, the Lord God did cause a skin of blackness to
come upon them. And thus saith the Lord God, I
will cause that they shall be loathsome unto thy peo­
ple, save they shall repent of their iniquities. And
cursed shall be the seed of him that mixeth with their
seed: for they shall be cursed even with the same
cursing. And the Lord spake it, and it was done.—
And because of their cursing which was upon them,
they did become an idle people* full of mischief and
subtlety, and did seek in the wilderness for beasts of
prey. And the Lord God said unto me, they shall be
a scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in remem­
brance of me; and inasmuch as they will not remem­
ber me, and hearken unto my words, they shallscourge
them even unto destruction.
And it came to pass that 1, Nephi, did consecrate
Jacob and Joseph, that they should be priests and
teachers over the land of my people. And it came to
pass that we lived after the manner of happiness.—
And thirty years had passed away from the time we
left Jerusalem. And I, Nephi, had kept the records
3*'' ejff
upon my plates, which I had made of my people, thus
f»r.
And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto
me, make other plates; and thou shall engraven many
things upon them which are good in my sight, for the
profit of thy people. Wherefore, I Nephi, to be obe­
dient to the commandments of the Lord, went and
made these plates upon which 1 hare engraven these
things. And I engraved that which is pleasing unto
God. And if iny people are pleased with the things
of God, they wilt be pleased with mine engravings
which are upon these plates. And if my people de­
sire to know the more particular part of the history of
my people, they must search mine other plates. And
it sufficeth me to say, that forty years had passed
away, and we had already had wars and contentions
with our brethren.
SECOND BOOK O f N E PH I. 79
CHAPTER V.
T he words of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, which
he spake unto the people of Nephi: Behold, my be­
loved brethren, I Jacob, having been called of God,
and ordained after the manner of his holy order, and
having been consecrated by my brother, Nephi, unto
whom ye look as a king or a protector, and on whom
ye depend for safety, behold, ye know that I have
spoken unto you exceeding many things; neverthe­
less, I speak unto you again; for I am desirous for the
welfare of your souls. Yea, mine anxiety is great for
you; and ye yourselves know that it ever has been.
For I have exhorted you with all diligence; and I have
taught you the words of my father; and I have spok­
en unto you concerning all things which are written,
from the creation of the world.
And now, behold, I would speak unto you concern­
ing things which are, and which are to come; where­
fore, I will read you the words of Isaiah. And they
are the words which my brother has desired that I
should speak unto you. And I speak unto you for
your sakes, that ye may learn and glorify the name
of vour God. And now, the words which I shall
tead, are they which Isaiah spake concerning all the
8 0 SECOND BOOS OF SEP H I.
house of Israel; wherefore, they may be likened unto
you: for ye are of the house of Israel. And there are
many things which have been spoken by Isaiah,
which may be likened unto you, because ye are of the
house of Israel.
And now, these are the words: Thus saith the
Lord God: Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the
Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people; and
they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daugh­
ters shall be carried upon their shoulders. And kings
shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nurs­
ing mothers: they shall bow down to thee with their
faces towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy
feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord: for
they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.
And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat con­
cerning these words: For behold, the Lord lias shewn
me that those who were at Jerusalem, from whence
we came, have been slain and carried away captive;
nevertheless, the Lord has shewn unto me that they
should return again. And he also has shewn unto
me, that the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel,
should manifest himself unto them in the flesh; and
after he should manifest himself, they should scourge
him and crucify liim, according to the words of. tne
angel, who spake it unto me. And after they have
hardened their hearts and stiffened their necks against
the Holy One of Israel, behold, the judgments of the
Holy One of Israel shall come upon them. And the
day couielh that they shall be smitten and afflicted.
Wherefore, after they are driven to and fro, for thus
saith the angel, many shall be afflicted in the flesh
and shall not be suffered to perish, because of the
prayers of the faithful, they shall be scattered, and
smitten, and hated; nevertheless, the Lord will be
merciful unto them, that when they shall come to the
knowledge of their Redeemer, they shall be gathered
together again to the lands of their inheritance.
And blessed are the Gentiles, they of whom the
prophet has written: for behold, if it so be that they
shall repent and fight not against Zion, and do not
unite themselves to that great and abominable church,
they shall be saved: for the Lord God will fulfil his
covenants which he has made unto his children; and
for this cause the prophet has written these things.
Wherefore, they that fight against Zion and the cov­
enant people of the Lord, shall lick up the dust of their
SECOND BOOS OF V EPH I. 81
feet; and the people of the Lord shall not be ashamed.
For the people of the Lord are they who wait for him:
for they still wait for the coming of the Messiah. And
behold, according to the words of the prophet, the
Messiah will set himself again the second time, to re­
cover them; wherefore, he will manifest himself unto
them in power and great glory, unto the destruction
of their enemies, when that day cometh when they
shall believe in him; and none will he destroy that
believe in him. And they that believe not in him,
shall be destroyed, both by fire, and by tempest, and
by earthquakes, and by bloodsheds, and by pestilence,
and by famine. And they shall know that the Lord
is God, the Holy One of Israel: for shall the prey be
taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive deliver­
ed? '■
*But thus saith the Lord: Even the captives of
the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the
terrible shall be delivered; for the mighty God shall
deliver his covenant people. For thus saith the Lord:
I will contend with them that contendeth with thee,
and I will feed them that oppress thee, with their own
flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood,
as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall know that 1
the Lord am thy Savior and thy Redeemer, the
mighty One of Jacob. Yea, for thus saith the Lord:
Have I put thee away, or have 1 cast thee off forever?
For thus saith the Lord: Where is the bill of your
mother’s divorcement? To whom have 1 put thee
away, or to which of my creditors have I sold youf
Yea, to whom have I sold you? Behold, for your in­
iquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your trans­
gressions is your mother put away; wherefore, when
I came, there was no man; when I called, yea, there
was none to answer.
O House of Israel, is my hand shortened at all that
it cannot redeem, or have 1 no power to deliver? Be­
hold, at my rebuke, I dry up the sea, I make their
rivers a wilderness and their flsh to stink, because the
waters are dried up; and they die because of thirst.
I clothe the heavens with blackness,; and I make sack­
cloth their covering. The Lord God hath given me
the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to
speak a word in season unto thee, O House of Israel.
When ye are weary, he wakelh morning by morning.
He waketh mine ear to hear as the learned. The
Lord God hath appointed mine ear, and 1 was not re­
bellious, neither turned away back. I gave my back
83 SECOND BOOK O r HKPHt.
to the smiter, and my cheeks to them that plucked off
the hair. I hid not my face from shame and spitting,
for the Lord God will help me: therefore shall I not
be confounded. Therefore have I set my face like a
dint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed; and the
Lord is.near, and he justifieth me. Who will con­
tend with met let us stand together. Who is mine
adversaryt let him come near me, and I will smite him
with the strength of my mouth: for the Lord God will
help me. And all they who shall condemn me, be­
hold, all they shall wax old as a garment, and the
moth shall eat them up.
Who is amono you that feareth the Lord; that obey-
eth the voice ofTiis servant; that tvalketh in darkness,
and hath no light? Behold, all ye that kindle fire,
that compass yourselves about with sparks, walk in
the light of your fire, and in the sparks which ye
have kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand: Ye
shall lie down in sorrow. Hearken unto me, ye that
follow after righteousness: Look unto the rock from
whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit from
whence ye are digged. Look unto Abraham, your
father, and unto Sarah, she that bare you: for I call­
ed him alone, and blessed him. For the Lord shall
comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places;
and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her
desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness
shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of
melody. Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear
unto me, O my nation :ifor a law shall proceed from
me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a light
for the people. My righteousness is near; my salva­
tion is gone forth, and mine arm shall judge the peo­
ple. The isles shall wait upon me, and on mine arm
shall they trust. Lift up your eyes to the heavens,
and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens
shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax
old like a garment; and they that dwell therein, shall
die in like manner. Bui my salvation shall be forever;
and ray righteousness shall not be abolished.
Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the
people in whose heart I have written my law; fear ye
not the reproach of men; neither be ye afraid of their
revilings; for the moth shall eat them up like a gar­
ment, and the worm shall eat them like wool. But
my righteousness shall be forever; and my salvation
from generation to generation.
u c o i r o b o o k o r w s r H i . 53
Awake, awake! Pat on strength O arm of the
Lord: awake as in the ancient daya. Art thou not he
tliat hath out Rahab, and wounded the dragon! Art
thou not he who hath dried the sea, the waters of the
great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a
way for the ransomed to pass over? Therefore, the
redeemed of the Lord shall return, and come with
singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy and holiness
shall be upon their heads; and they shall obtain glad­
ness and joy: sorrow and mourning shall dee away.
I am he; yea, I am be that comforleth you: Behold,
who art thou, that thou sbouldest be afraid of man,
who shall die, and of the Son of man, who shall bo
made like unto grass; and forgetest the Lord thy ma­
ker, that hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid
the foundations of the earth; and hast feared continu­
ally every day, because of the fury of the oppressor,
as if he were ready to destroy? And where is the fu­
ry of the oppressor? The captive exile hasteneth,
that he may be loosed, and that he should not die in
the pit, nor that his bread should fail. But I am the
Lord thy God, whose waves roared: the Lord of
Hosts is my name. And I have put my words in thy
mouth, and have covered thee in the shadow of mine
hand, that I may plant the heaveni ’ 1 " J
art my people. Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusa­
lem, which hast drunk at the hand of the Lord the
cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs of the
cup of trembling rung out; and none to guide her
among all the sons she hath brought forth; neither
that taketh her by the hand, of all the sons she hath
brought up. These two sons are come unto thee;
who shall be sorry for thee: thy desolation and des­
truction, and the famine and the Bword: And by
whom shall I comfort thee? Thy sons have fainted,
save these two: they lie at the head of all the streets,
as a wild bull in a net: they are full of the fury of the
Lord, the rebuke of thy God.
Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunk­
en, and not with wine: thus sailh thy Lord, the Lord
and thy God pleadelh the cause of his people, Behold,
I have taken out of thine hand the cup of trembling,
the dregs ofthe cup of my fury; thou shall no more
drink it again. But 1 will put it into the hand *of
them that afflict thee; who have said to thy soul. Bow
down, that we may go over: and thou h u t laid thy
ations of the earth, and say unto
84 3ZC0SD BOOK 0 T HEPH I.
body as the ground, and as the street to them that
went over.
Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion; pat
on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy ci­
ty; for henceforth there shall no more come into
thee, the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake thy­
self from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem:
loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive
daughter of Zion.
CHAPTER VI.
Ahd now, my beloved brethren, I have read these
things that ye might know concerning the covenants
of the Lord; that he has covenanted with all the
house of Israel; that he has spoken unto the Jews,
by the mouth of his holy prophets, even from the be­
ginning down, from generation to generation, until
the time conies that they shall be restored to the true
church and fold of God; when they shall be gathered
home to the lands of their inheritance, and shall be es­
tablished in all their lands of promise.
Behold, my beloved brethren, I speak unto you
these things that ye may rejoice, and lift up your
heads forever, because of the blessings which the
Lord God shall bestow upon your children. For I
know that ye have searched much, many of you, to
know of things to come; wherefore I know that ye
know that our flesh must waste away and die; never­
theless, in our bodies we shall see God. Yea, I know
that ye know, that in the body he shall shew himself
unto those at Jerusalem, from whence we came; forit
is expedient that it should be among them; for it be-
hoveth the great Creator that he suffereth himself to
become subject unto man in the flesh, and die for all
men, that all men might become subject unto him.—
For as death hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the
merciful plan of the great Creator, there must needs
be a power of resurrection, and the resurrection must
needs come unto man by reason of the fall; and the
fall came by reason'of transgression; and because man
became fallen, they were cut off from the presence of
the Lord; wherefore it must needs be an ^infinite
SECOND BOOK OF HKPHI. 85
atonement; save it should be an infinite atonement,
this corruption could not put on incorruption. Where­
fore, the first judgment which came upon man, must
needs have remained to an endless duration. And if
so, this fiesh must have laid down to rot and to crum­
ble to its mother earth, to rise no more.
O the wisdom of Godl his mercy and grace! For
behold, if the flesh should rise no more, our spirits
must become subject to that angel who fell from be­
fore the presence of the eternal God, and became the
devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have be­
come like unto him, and we become devils, angels to
a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God,
and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like
unto himself; yea, to that being who beguiled our first
parents; who transformeth himself nigh unto an an­
gel of light, and stireth up the children of men unto
secret combinations of murder, and all manner of
secret works of darkness.
O how great the goodness of our God, who prepar-
eth a way for our escape from the grasp of this awful
monster; yea, that monster, death and hell, which I
call the death of the body, and also the death of the
spirit. And because of the way of deliverance of our
God, the Holy One of Israel, this death, of which I
have spoken, which is the temporal, shall deliver up
its dead; which death is the grave. And this death
of which I have spoken, which is the spiritual death,
shall deliver up its dead; which spiritual death is hell;
wherefore, death and hell must deliver up their dead,
and hell muBtdeliver up its captive spirits, andthe grave
must deliver up its captive bodies, and the bodies and
the spirits of men will be restored, one to the other:
and it is by the power of the resurrection of the Holy
One of Israel.
O how great the plan of our Godl For on the oth­
er hand, the paradise of God must deliver up the spir­
its of the righteous, and the grave deliver up the body
of the righteous; and the spirit and the body is restor­
ed to itself again, and all men become incorruptible,
and immortal, and they are living souls, having a per­
fect knowledge like unto us, in the flesh; save it be
that our knowledge shall be perfect; wherefore, we
•hall have a perfect knowledge of all our guilt, and
our uncleanness, and our nakedness; and the right-
eons shall have a, perfect knowldege of their enyoy-
;!v « e*ji •_
•*
< «
i
i
80 SECOND BOOK OF N EFH I.
merit, and their righteousness, being clothed with pu­
rity, yea, even with the robe of righteousness.
And it shall come to pass, that when all men shall
have passed from this first death unto life, insomuch
as they have become immortal, they must appear be­
fore the judgment seat of the Holy One of Israel; and
then comelh the judgment, and then must they bo
judged according to the holy judgment of God. And
assuredly, as the Lord livelh, for the Lord God hath
spoken it, and it is his eternal word, which cannnot
pass away, that they who are righteous, shall be right­
eous still, and they who are filthy, shall be filthy still;
wherefore, they who are filthy, are the devil and his
angels: and they shall go away into everlasting fire,
prepared for them; and their torment is as a lake of
fire and brimstone, whose flames ascendeth up forever
and ever, and has no end.
O the greatness and the justice of our God 1 For
he executeth all his words, and they have gone forth
out of his mouth, and his law must be fulfilled. But,
behold, the righteous, the saints of the Holy One of
Israel, they who have believed in the Holy One of Is­
rael; they who have endured the crosses of the world,
and despised the shame of it; they shall inherit the
kingdom of God, which was prepared for them from
the foundation of the world: and their joy shall be full
forever.
O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy
One of Israeli For he delivereth his saints from that
awful monster the devil, and death and hell, and that
lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.
O how great the holiness of our Godl For he
knoweth all things., and there is not any thing, save
he knows it. And he cometh into the world that he
may save all men, if they will hearken unto his voice:
for behold, he suffereth the pains of all men; yea,
the pains of every living creature, both men women
and children, who belong to the family of Adam. And
he suffereth this, that the resurrection might pass up­
on all men, that all might stand before him, at the
great and judgment day. And he commandeth all
men that they must repent, and be baptised in his
name, having perfect faith in the Holy One of Israel,
or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. And
if they will not repent and believe in, his name, and
be baptised in his name, and endure to the end, they
must be damned; for the Lord God, the Holy One of
SECOND BOOK O r NXFH1. 87 >
Israel has spoken it; wherefore he has given & law;
and where there is no law given, there is no punish­
ment; and where there is no punishment, there is‘no
condemnation; and where there is no condemnation,
the mercies of the Holy One of Israel have claim up­
on them, because of the atonement: for they are de­
livered by the power of him: for the atonement satis-
fieth the demands of his justice upon all those who
have not the law given to them, that they are deliver­
ed from that awful monster, death and hell, and the
devil, and the lake of fire and brimstone, which is end­
less torment; and they are restored to that God who
gave them breath, which is the Holy One of Israel.
But wo unto him that has the law given; yea, that
has all the commandments of God, like unto us, and
that transgresseth them, and that wasteth the days of
his probation; for awful is his state!
O that cunning plan of the evil one! O the vain­
ness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men!
When they are learned, they think they are wise, and
they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they
set it aside, supposing they know of themselves.—
wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness, and it profiteth
them not. And they shall perish.
But to be learned is good, if they hearken unto the
counsels of God. But wo unto the rich, who are rich
as to the things of the world. For because they are
rich, they despise the poor, and they persecute the
meek, and their hearts are upon their treasures: where­
fore their treasure is their God. And behold, their
treasure shall perish with them also. And wo unto
the deaf, that will not hear: for they shall perish.—
Wo unto the blind, that will not see: for they shall
perish also. Wo unto the uncircumcised of heart:
for a knowledge of their iniquities shall smite them at
the last day. Wo unto the liar; for he shall be thrust
down to hell. Wo unto the murderer, who deliber-
erately killeth: for he shall die. Wo unto them who
commit whoredoms: for they shall be thrust down to
hell. Yea, wo unto those that worship idols: for the
devil of all devils delighteth in them. And, in fine,
wo unto all those who die in their sins: for they shall
return to God, and behold his face, and remain in
their sins.
O, my beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in
transgressing against that holy God, and also the aw-
fulness of yielding to the enticings of that cunning
83 BZCOND BOOS OF MKPHI.
one. Remember, to be carnally minded, is death, and
to be spiritually minded, is life eternal.
O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words.—
Remember the greatness of the Holy One of Israel.
Do not say that I have spoken hard things against
you: for if ye do, ye will revile against the truth: for
I have spoken the words ofyour Maker. I know that
the words of truth are hard against all "'uncleanness;
but the righteous fear them not, for they love the
truth, and are not shaken,
O then, my beloved brethren, come unto the Lord,
the Holy One. Remember that his paths are right­
eous. Behold, the way for man is narrow, but it lieth
in a straight course before him, and the keeper of the
gate is the Holy One of Israel: and he employelh no
servant there; and there is none other way, save it be
by the gate, for he cannot be deceived; foi the Lord
God is his name. And whoso knocketh, to him will
he open; and the wise, and the learned, and they that
are rich, who are puffed up because of their learning,
and their wisdom, and their riches; yea, they are they,
whom he despiseth; and save they shall east these
things away, and consider themselves fools before
God, and come down in the depths of humility, he
will not open unto them. But the things of the wise
and the prudent, shall be hid from them forever; yea,
that happiness which is prepared for the saints. 0
my beloved brethren, remember my words: Behold, I
take off my garments and I shake them before you: I
pray the God of my salvation that he view me with
his All-searching eye; wherefore, ye shall know at
the last day, when all men shall be judged of their
works, that the God of Israel did witness that I shook
your iniquities from my soul, and that I stand with
brightness before him, and am rid of your blood.
O my beloved brethren, turn away from your sins;
shake off the chains of him that would bind you fast;
come unto that God who is the rock of your salvaticm.
Prepare your souls for that glorious day, when justice
shall be administered unto the righteous; even the
day of judgment, that ye may not shrink with awful
fear; that ye may not remember your awful guilt in
perfectness, and be constrained to exclaim, holy, ho­
ly are thy judgments, O Lord God Almighty. But I
know my guilt; I transgressed thy law, and my trans­
gressions are mine; and the devil had obtained»ine,
that I am a prey to his awful misery. But behold, my
SECOfTD BOOK O f MZPHI.
brethren, is it expedient the 11 should awake you to
on awful reality of these thi ogs? Would I harrow up
your souls, if your minds 'were pure? Would I be
plain unto you according to the plainness ofthe truth,
if ye were freed from sin? Behold, if ye were holy,
I would speak unto you of* holiness; but as ye are
not holy, and ye look upon me as a teacher, it must
needs be expedient that I teach you the consequences
of sin. Behold, my soul abliorreth sin, and my heart
delighteth in righteousness; and I will praise the ho­
ly name of my God. Come, my brethren, ev<*ry one
that thirsleth, come ye to the waters; and he that
hath no money, come buy and eat; yea, come buy
wine and milk without money and wilhout price.—
Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of
no worth, nor your labor for that which cannot satis­
fy. Hearken diligently unto me, and remember the
words which 1 have spoken; and come unto the Holy
One of Israel, and feast upon that which perisheth
not, neither can be corrupted, and Let your soul de­
light in fatness. Behold, my beloved brethren, re­
member the words of your God; pray unto him con­
tinually by day, and give thanks unto his holy name
by night. Let your hearts rejoice, and behold how
great the covenants of the Lord, and how great his
condescension s unto the children of men; and because
of his greatness, and his grace and mercy, he has
promised unto us that our seed shall not utterly bedes­
troyed, according to the flesh, but that he would pre­
serve them; and in future generations, they shall be­
come a righteous branch unto the house of Israel.
And now, ray brethren, I would speak unto you
more; but on the morrow I will declare unto you the
remainde r of my words. Amen. •
CHAPTER VII.
Arm now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my belov­
ed brethren, concerning this righteous branch of
which I have spoken. For behold, the promises which
we have obtained, are promises unto us according to
the flesh; wherefore, as it has been shown unto me
d2
90 SECOND SO o s: OF S E P H t.
that many of our children: shall perish in the flesh, be­
cause of unbelief, nevertheless, God will be merciful
unto many; and our children shall be restored, that
they may come to that which will give them the true
knowledge of their Redeemer. Wherefore as I said
unto you, it must needs be expedient that Christ, (for
in the last night the angel spake unto me that this
should be his name,) should come among the Jews,
among those who are the more wicked part of the
world; and they shall crucify him: For thus it be-
hooveth our God; and there is none other nation on
earth that would crucify their God. For should the
mighty miracles be wrought among other nations,
they would repent, and know that he be their God;
but because of priest-crafts and iniquities, they at Je­
rusalem will stiffen their necks against him, that he be
crucified. Wherefore, because oftheir iniquities, des­
tructions, famines, pestilences, and bloodsheds, shall
come upon them; and they who shall not be destroy­
ed, shall be scattered among all nations.
But behold, thus saith the Lord God: When the
day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am
Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that
they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, un­
to the lands of their inheritance. And it shall come
to pass that they shall be gathered in from their long
dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four
parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall
be great in the eyes of me, saith God, in carrying
them forth to the lands of their inheritance. Yea, the
kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto
them, and their queens shall become nursing mothers;
wherefore, the promises ofthe Lord are great unto the
Gentiles, for he hath spoken it, and who can dispute!
But behold, this laud, saith God, shall be a land of
thine inheritance; and the Gentiles shall be blessed
upon the land. And this land shall be a land ofliber­
ty unto the Gentiles; and there shall be no kings up­
on the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles.—
And I will fortify this land against all other nations;
and he that fighteth against Zion, shall perish, saith
God: for he that raiseth up a king against me, shall
perish. F ori the Lord, tiie king of heaven, will be
their king; and I will be a light unto them forever,
that hear my words. Wherefore, for this cause, that
my covenant* may be fulfilled, which I have made un­
SECOND BOOK OF KKPHI.
to the children of men, that I will do unto them while
they are in the flesh, 1 must needs destroy the secret
works of darkness, and of murders, and of abomina­
tions; wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion, both
Jew and Gentile, both bond and free, both male and
female, shall perish: for they are they who are the
whore of all the earth; for they who are not for me,
are against me, sailh our God. For I will fulfil my
promises which I have made unto the children of men,
that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh.—>
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, thus saith our God:
I will afflict thy seed by the hand of the Gentiles;
nevertheless, I will soften the hearts of the Gentiles,
that they shall be like unto a father to them; where­
fore, the Gentiles shall be blessed and numbered among
the house of Israel. Wherefore, I will consecrate this
land unto thy seed and they who shall be numbered
among thy seed, forever, for the land of thei# inherit­
ance: For it is a choice land, saith God unto me,
above all other lands; wherefore, I will have all men
that dwell thereon, that they shall worship me, saith
God.
And now, my beloved brethren, seeing that our
merciful God has given us so great knowledge concern­
ing these things, let us remember him, and lay aside
our sins, and not hang down our heads, for we are not
cast off; nevertheless, we have been driven out of the
land of our inheritance; but we have been led to abet­
ter land: for the Lord has made the sea our path, and
we are upon an isle of the sea. But great are the
promises of the Lord unto they who are upon the isles
of the sea; wherefore, as it says isles, there must
needs be more than this; and they are inhabited also
by our brethren. For behold, the Lord God has led
away from time to time from the house of Israel, ac­
cording to his will and pleasure. And now, behold,
the Lord remembereth all they who have been broken
oft'; wherefore, he remembereth us also. Therefore
cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are free
to act for yourselves: to choose the way of everlasting
death, or the way of eternal life. Wherefore, my be­
loved brethren, reconcile yourselves to the will of God,
and not to the will of the devil and the flesh; and re­
member after ye are reconciled unto God, that it is
only in and through the grace of God that ye are sa­
ved. Wherefore, may God raise you from death, by
W
92 SECOND BOOK OF N E PH I.
the power of the resurrection; and also from everlast­
ing death, by the power of th e atonement, that ye may
be received into the eternal kingdom of God, that ye
may praise him through grace divine. Amen.
CHAPTER VIII.
Ann now Jacob spake many more things to my peo­
ple at that time; nevertheless, only these things have
I caused to be written: for the things which I have
written, sufficeth me.
And now I, Nephi, write more of the words of
Isaiah: for my soul delighteth in his words. For I
will likeri his words unto my people; and I will send
them forth unto all my children; for he verily saw my
Redeemer, even as I have seen him. And my brother
Jacob also has seen him as 1 have seen him; where­
fore, I will send their words forth unto my children,
to prove unto them that my words are true. Where­
fore, by the words of three, God hath said, I will es­
tablish my word. Nevertheless, God sendeth more
witnesses; and he proveth all his words. Behold, my
soul delighteth in proving unto my people the truth
of the coining of Christ: for, for this end hath the law
of Moses been given; and ail things which have been
given of God from the beginning of the world, unto
man, are the typifying ot him. And also, my soul
delighteth in the covenants of the Lord which he hath
made to our fathers; yea, my soul delighteth in his
grace, and his justice, and power, and mercy, in the
great and eternal plan of deliverance from death. And
my soul delighteth in proving unto my people, that
save Christ should come, all men must perish. For if
there be no Christ, there be no God; and if there be
no God, we are not, for there could have been no cre­
ation. But there is a God, and he is Christ; and he
cometh in the fulness of his own time.
And now I write some of the words of Isaiah, that
whoso of my people shall see these words, may lift up
their hearts and rejoice for all men. Now, these are
the words; and ye may liken them unto you, and unto
all men.
SXCOKD BOOK OF KEPH I.
The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw, con-v
cerning Judah and Jerusalem: And it shall come to
pass in the last days, when the mountain of the Lord’s
house shall be established in the top of the mountains,
and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations
shall flow unto it, and many people shall go and say,
Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the
Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will
teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths:
for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of
the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among
the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they
shall beat their swords into plough-shares, and their
spears into pruning hooks: nation shall not lift up
sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more. O house of Jacob, come ye and let us walk in
the light of the Lord; yea, come, for ye have all gone
astray, every one to his wicked ways.
Therefore, O Loid, thou hast forsaken thy people,
the house of Jacob, because they be replenished from
the east, and hearken unto soothsayers like the Phil­
istines, and they please themselves in the children of
strangers. Their land also is full of silver and gold,
neither is there any end of their treasures; their land
is also full of horses, neither is there any end of their
chariots: their land also is full of idols; they worship
the work of their own hands,—that which their own
fingers have made: and the mean man boweth not
down, and the great man humbleth himself not: there­
fore forgive him not.
O ye wicked ones, enter into the rock, and hide thee
in the dust, for the fear of the Lord, and the glory of
his majesty shall smite thee. And it shall come to
pass that the lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and
the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the
Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. For the day
of the Lord of hosts soon comelh upon all nations;
yea, upon every one; yea, upon the proud and lofty,
and upon every one who is lifted up; and he shall be
brought low: yea, and the day of the Lord shall come
upon all the cedars of Lebanon, for they are high and
lifted up: and upon all the oaks of Bashan, and upon
all the high mountains, and upon all the hills, and up­
on all the nations which are lifted up, and upon every
people, and upon every high tower, and upon every
fenced wall, and upon all the ships of the sea, and up­
on all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant
93
94 SECOKD BOOK O J K EPH I.
pictures. And the loftiness of man shall be bowed
down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low:
and the Lord alone shall be exaltedin that day. And
the idols lie shall utterly abolish. And they shall go
into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the
earth, for the fear of the Lord shall come upon them;
and the glory of his majesty shall smite them, when
he ariseth to shake terribly the earth. In that day a
man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold,
which lie hath made for himself to worship, to the
moles and to the bats; to go into the clefts of the
rocks, and into the tops of the ragged rocks, for the
fear of the Lord shall come upon them, and the majes­
ty of his glory shall smile them when he ariseth to
shake terribly the earth. Cease ye from man, whose
breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be ac­
counted of!
For behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, doth take
away from Jerusalem and from Judah the slay and the
staff, the whole staff of bread, and the whole stay of
water, the mighty man, and the man of war, the judge,
and the prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient, the
captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the coun­
sellor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent or­
ator. And I will give children unto them to be their
princes, and babes shall rule over them. And the peo­
ple shall be oppressed, every one by another, and eve­
ry one by his neighbor, the child shall behave himself
proudly against the ancient, and the base against the
honorable. When a man shall take hold of his broth­
er of the house of his father, and shall say, thou hast
clothing, be thou our ruler, and let not this ruin come
under thy hand: in that day shall he swear, saying, I
will not be a healer; for in my house there is neither
bread nor clothing: make me not a ruler of the people.
For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen: because
their tongues and their doings have been against the
Lord, to provoke the eyes of his glory.
The shew of their countenance doth witness against
them, and doth declare their sin to be even as Sodom,
and they cannot hide it. Wo unto their souls! for
they have rewarded evil unto themselves. Say unto
the righteous, that it is well with them: for they shall
eat the fruit of their doings. Wo unto the wicked!
for they shall perish: for the reward of their hands
shall be upon them, . boos :
io t'.1k
: i .51iir
:. n
SKCOKD BOOK OX NKPHT. 95
And my people, children are their oppressors, and
■women rule over them. O my people, they who lead
thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy
paths. The Lord standeth up to plead, and standetn
to judge the people. The Lord will enter into judg­
ment with the ancients of his people, and the princes
thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard, and the
spoil of the poor in your houses. What mean yet—
Ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the
poor, saith the Lord God of hosts.
Moreover the Lord saith, because the daughters of
Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks
and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go,
and making a tinkling willi their feet: therefore the
Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of
the daughters of Zion, and the Lord will discover their
secret parts. In that day the Lord will take away the
bravery of their tinkling ornaments, and cauls, and
round tires like the moon, the chains and the brace­
lets, and the mufflers, the bonnets, and the ornaments
of the legs, and the head-bands, and the tablets and
the ear-rings, the rings, and nose-jewels, the changa-
ble suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples,
and the crisping-pins, the glasses, and the fine linen,
and hoods, and the vails.
And it shall come to pass, instead of sweet smell,
there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle, a rent;
and instead cf well set hair, baldness; and instead of
a stomacher, a girding of sackcloth; burning instead
of beauty. Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy
mighty m the war. And her gates shall lament and
mourn; and she shall be desolate, and shall sit upon
the ground.
And in that day, seven women shall take hold of one
man, saying, we will eat our own bread, and wear our
own apparel: only let us be called by thy name, to
take away our reproach. In that day shall the branch
of the Lord be beautiful and glorious; the fruit of the
earth excellent and comely to them that are escaped of
Israel.
And it shall come to pass, them that are left in Zi­
on, and remain in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, ev-^
ery one that is written among the living in Jerusalem:
when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the
daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of
Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit ofjudg­
ment, and by the spirit of burning. And the Lord
96 SECOND BOOK OT NXPHI.
will create upon every dwelling-place of mount Zion,
and upon lier assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day,
and the shining of a flaming fire by night: *for upon
all the* glory of Zion shall be a defence. And there
shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time
from the heat, and for a place of refuge, and a covert
from storm and from rain.
And then will I sing to my well beloved a song of
my beloved touching his vineyard. JVly well beloved
hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hiik and he fenced
it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it
with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst
ofit, and also made a wine-press therein: and he look­
ed that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought
forth wild grapes. And now, 0 inhabitants of Jeru­
salem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt
me and my vineyard. What could have been done
more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it?—
Wherefore, when 1 looked that it should bring forth
fapeB, it brought forth wild grapes. And now go to;
will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: 1 will
take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up;
and I will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be
trodden down; and I will lay it waste: it shall not be
pruned nor digged; but there shall coine up briers and
thorns: 1 will also command the clouds that they
rain no rain upon it. For the vineyard of the Lord of
hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his
S
leasant plant: and he looked for judgment, and be-
old oppression: for righteousness, but behold a cry.
Wo unto them that join house to house, till there
can be no place, that they may be placed alone in the
midst of the earth! In mine ears said the Lord of
hosts, of a truth many houses shall be desolate, and
great and fair cities without inhabitant. Yea, ten
acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of
a homer shall yield an ephah. i
Wo unto them that rise up early in llie morning,
that they may follow strong drink; that continue until
night, and wine inflame them! And the harp, and
the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine are in their
feasts; but they regard not the work of the Lord, nei­
ther consider the operation of his hands.
Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because
they have no knowledge: and their honorable men are
famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst.—
Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her
SECOND BOOK OF B E P H I. 97
mouth without measure: and their glory, and their
multitude, and>their poinp,<andhe that rejoiceth, shall
descend into it. And the mean man shall be brought
down, and the mighty man shall be humbled, and the
eyes of the lofty shall be humbled: but the Lord of
hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is ho­
ly shall be sanctified in righteousness. . Then shall
the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste pla­
ces of the fat ones shall strangers eat. Wo unto
them that draw iniquity-with cords of vanity, and sin
as it were with a cart-rope: that say,;let him make
speed, hasten his work, that we may see it: and let
the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and
come, that we may know it.
Wo unto them that call evil good, and good evil;
that put darkness for light, and light for darkness;
that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter! Wo
unto the wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their
own sight! Wo unto the mighty to drink wine, and
men of strength to mingle strong drink: who- justify
the wicked for reward, and take away the righteous­
ness of the righteous from himI Therefore as the fire
devoureth the stubble, and the flame consumeth the
chaff, their root shall be rottenness, and their blossoms
shall go upas dust: because they have cast away the
law ofthe Lord of hosts, and despised the word of the
Holy One of Israel. Therefore, is the anger of the
Lord-kindled against his people, and he hath stretched
forth his hand against tbem, and hath smitten them;
and the hills did -tremble, and their 'carcasses were
torn in the midst of the streets. • For all this his anger
is not turned away, but his hand stretched out stilk
And.he will lift up an ensign to the nations from
far, and will hiss unto them from the end of the earth;
and behold, they shall come with speed swiftly: none
shall he weary nor stumble among them; none shall
slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle pf their
loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be bro­
ken: whose arrows shall be sharp, and all their bpws
bent, and their horses’ hoofs shall be countedlike flint,
and their wheels like- a whirlwind, their roaring like a
lio n .T h ey shall roar like young'lions: yea, they
shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry
away, safe,-and none shall deliver. And in that day
they shallroar against them like the roaringof,the sea:
S
‘‘ M - •' S •' # -*
J V
,- 'ifh
Jitii dr-iv-i. I v '/
98 SECOND BOOK OF REPOT.
and if they look unto the land, behold, darkness and
sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.
*\ ’ * t.?> • -,S
p
; *
1 ,
CHAPTER IX. •
: =V ' n * c'.
Is the year that king Uzziah died, I saw also the
Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lilted up, and
his train filled the temple. Above it stood the sera*
phjms; each one had six wings; with twain he cov­
ered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and
with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another,
and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord of hosts: the
whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the
door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the
house was filled with smoke. -
Then said I, wo is unto me! for I nm undone; be­
cause I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the
midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have
seen ths King, the Lord of hosts. Then flew' one of
the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand,
which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar:
and he laid it upon my mouth, andtsaid, Lo, this has
touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away,
and thy sin purged. Also 1 heard the voice of the
Lord, saying, whom shall I send, and who will go
for us? Then I said, here am *1; send me. ,
And he said, go, and tell this people, hear ye in­
deed, but they understood not; and see ye indeed, but
they perceived not. Make the heart of this'people fat,
and make their ears heavy; and shut their eyeis;, lest
they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and
understand with their heart,-and be converted, and be
healed.4 Then said I, cLord, how long? And he said,
until the cities,be wasted without inhabitant, and the
houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate;
and the Lord,'have retnoved men far away, for there
shall be a great forsaking in the midst of the lamb,
• But yet there shall ben tenth, and they shall return,
and shall be eaten: -as a toil-tree, and as an oak wfaose
substance is in them, when they cost their leaves; so
the holy seed shall be the Bubetcmce thereof.ZhA*
And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of
Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin,
SECOND BOOK OF N EPH I. 99
king of Syria, And Pekah the sola ofiRemaliah, king of
Israel, went op towards Jerusalem to war against it,
but could not prevail against & Aud it was told tjbe
house of Davitf, saying, "Syria is confederate -with
Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of
his people, as the trees'of the wood are moved with
the wind. Then said the Lord unto Isaiah, "go forth
now to meet Ahaz, thou, and Shearjashub thy son, at
the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the high­
way of the fuller's field; and say unto him, take heed,
ana be quiet; fear not, neither be faint-hearted for,the
two tails of these smoking fire-brands, for vthe fierce
anger of Rezin with Syria, and of the son of Renhalia.
Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Rfemalia, have
taken evil counsel against thee, saying, let us go up
against Judah, and vex it, and let us make a breach
therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, yea
the son of Tabeal: thus saith the Lord God, it shall
not stand, neither shall it come to pass. For the head
of Syria is Damascus, and the bead of Damascus, Re­
zin: and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim
be broken, that it be not a people. And the head of
Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Re-
malia’s son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall
not be established. >
Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying,
ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God; ask it either m
the depths, or in the heights above. But Ahaz said I
will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord. And he
said; hear ye now, O house of David; is it a small
thing for you to weary men, but will ye weary my
God also! Therefore the Lord himself shall give you
a sign: Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and snail
bear a son, and shall oall his name Immanuel. Butter
and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse
the evil, and to choose the good. For before the
child shall know to refuse the evil and choose the good,
the land that thou abhorreat shall be forsaken of both
herkings, iv ;, *
The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon tby peo­
ple, and upon thy father’s house, days that have not
come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Ju­
dah,' the king of Assyria. And.it shall come to pass
in that day, that the Lord shall hiss for the-fly that is
in the uttermost part of Egypty and for the bee that is
i&^he landof.Assyria. Andthey shall come, andshall
1 0 0 s e c o n d No o k o f n e f h i .
rest all of them in> the desolate valleys, and-in,the
holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon all
bashes. -I« the same day shall the Lord shave with a
razor that is hired, by them beyond the river, by the
king of Assyria, the head, and the hair of the feet:
and it shall also consume the beard. And it .shall
eotne to pass in that day, a man shall nourish a young
cow, and two sheep; audit shall come to pass, for the
abundance of milk they shallgive, he shall eat butter:
for butter and honey shall every one eat that is left ip
the land. And it shall come to pass in that day, ever
ry place shall be, where there were a thousand vines
at a thousand silverlings, which shall be for briers and
thorns. With arrows and with bows shall men come
thither; because all the land shall become briers and
thorns. And all hills that shall be digged witii the mat­
tock,’there shall not come thither the fear of briersand
thorris: but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen,
and the treading of lesser cattle. i. • ■ c*
Moreover, the word of the Lord said unto me, take
thee e. great roll, and write in it with a man’s pen con­
cerning Maher-shalaJ-Lash-baz.! And I took unto me
faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest, and
Zechariab the son of Jeberechiah. And 1 went unto
the prophetess; and she conceived and bear a son.—
Then said the Lord to me, call his name Maher-shdlal-
hash*baz. -For behold, the child shall not have knowl­
edge to Cry, my father, and my mother, before the
riches ofDamascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be
taken aWay before"the king of Assyria. ,.>>
<
The Lord spake also unto me again, saying, foras­
much as this people refuseth* the waters of Shiloah
that go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Reinalia’s son;
now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth-.up upon
them the waters;of the river, strong and many, even
the king:of Assyria, and: all his glory; and‘he shall
come up over all his channels, and go over' all. his
banks: and he shall pass through Judah; he shall over­
flow and go over, he shall reach even to .the heck;
and the stretching out of his wings<shalifill the breadth
of thy land, O Immanuel, e
Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye"‘shallbe
broken in pieces^ and igive ear all ye of, far countries:
gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken hitpiecesf?gird
yourselves, andye shall be broken in pieces: -‘-
‘
Take
counsel together and it Shall come, to nought;
8KC0MD BOOK. OF KEPHI.
the word, and it ehall not stand: for God is with ub.'
For the Lordspake thus to me withva strong hand,
and instructed me that I should not walk in the way
of this people, saying, say ye not, a 'confederacy, to
all to whom this people shall say, a confederacy; nei­
ther fear ye their fear, nor be afraid- Sanctify the
Lord of hosts himself, and let‘him be your fear, and
let him be your dread. And he sliallbe fo|,a sanctua­
ry; but for a stone of stumbling, and for a rock of of*
fence to both <the'Houses of Israel, for a gin and a
snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many
among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and
be snared, and be taken. Bind up the testimony, seal
the law among my disciples. And,I .will wait upon
the Lord, that hideth his face from, the house of Ja­
cob, and I will look for him. Behold, 1 and the chil­
dren whom the Lord hath given me are for signs and
for wonders in Israel from tire Lord of hosts, which
dwelleth in mount Zion.. - i . ,
And when they shall say unto you, seek unto them
that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep,
and mutter:; should not a people seek unto, their God?
for the living to hear from the dead? to the law and
to the testimony: and if they speak not according to
this word,,it is because there is no light in them.—
And they shall pass tlirough it hardly bestead and
hungry, and it shall come to pass,, that when they
shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves, and curse
their king and their God, and look upward. And they
shall look unto the earth,; and behold trouble,,and
darkness, dimness of anguish, and shall he driven to
darkness.
4 Nevertheless the dimness shall not.be such as,was
in her vexation, when at firs! he lightly afflicted the
land of Zebultm, and the land ot\Naphtali, and after­
wards did more grievously afflict by the >
way of the
Red Sea beyond Jordan in Gaiilee.of the nations.-^
The people;that walked in darkness have seen a great;
light: they that dwell in the .land of the shadow of
death, upon them hath the light shined,: Thou, hast;
multiplied the pation, and increased the joy;, they joy
before thee according to the- joy; in harvest, and ;as
men rejoice when,they divide the spoil, For thou hast;
braked' the< yoke; ofrtiis burden, and the etaff of his,
shoulder, the> rod of his opprfissOr.t JSor eyery.Jbaftle:
of the warior withveorjf'uped noise,;end garments?ofled;
in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel of
1 0 1 f
103 SECOND BOOK OF JTEPHI.
fire. For unto' us a child ia born,-unto ua a son isgir-
en: and the government shall be upon his shoulders
and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor,
The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince
of Peace. Of the increase of government and peace
there is no end, upon the throne of David, and upon
his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judg­
ment and with justice from henceforth even forever.—
The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this.
The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath
lighted upon Israel. And all the people shall know,
even Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, that
say in the pride and stoutness of heart, the bricks are
fallen down, but we will build with hewn stones: the
sycamores are cut down, but we will change them
into cedars. Therefore the Lord shall set up the ad­
versaries of Rezin against him, and join his enemies
together; the Syrians before, and the Philistines be­
hind: and they shall devour Israel with open mouth.
For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand
is stretched out still.
For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth
them, neither do they seek the Lord of hosts. There­
fore will the Lord cut off from Israel head and tail,
branch and rush in one day. The ancient, he is the
head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the
tail. For the leaders of this peoplecause them to err;
and they that are led of them are destroyed. There­
fore the Lord shall have no joy in their young men,
neither shall have mercy on their fatherless and wid­
ows: for every one of them is a hypocrite and an evil­
doer, and every mouth speaketh folly. For all this his
anger is not turned away, but his hand stretched out
still. i
For wickedness burneth as the fire; it shall devour
the briers and thorrs, and shall kindle in the thickets
of the forests, and they shall mount up like the lift­
ing up of smoke. Through the wrath of the Lord of
hosts is the land darkened, and the people shall be as
the fuel of the fire: no man shall spare his brother.^*
And he shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry;
and he shall eat on the left hand, and they shall not'
be satisfied: they shall eat everyytfnan the flesh of his
own arm: Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manas-
seh; they together shall be against Judah: For all
this his angeris not turned away, but his hand stretch-'
ed out still, .Jr-. «.
5XCOKD BOOK OF NXPHI. 1108
Wo unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and
that write grievousness which they have prescribed;
to turn away the needy from judgment, and to take
away the right from the poor of my people, that wid­
ows may be their prey, and that they may rob thefa-
■therless! And what will ye do in the day of visita­
tion, and in the desolation which shall come from far!
to whom will ye flee for help! and where will ye leave *
your glory! Without me they shall bow down under
the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain.—
For all this his anger is not turned away, but his;hand
stretched out still. .
O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in
their hand is their indignation. I will send him against
a hypocritical nation, and against.the people of my
wrath will 1 give him a charge, to take the spoil, and
to take the prey, and to tread them down like the miro
of the streets. Ifowbeit he meaneth not so, neither
doth his heart think so; but in his heart it is to des­
troy and cut oft’nations not a few;. For he saitb, Are
not my princes altogether kings! Is not Calno as
Carchemish? Is not Hamath as Arpad! Is not Sa­
maria as Damascus? As my hand hath founded the
kingdoms of the idols, and whose graven images did
excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria: shall I not,
as I have done unto Samaria and .her idols, so do to
Jerusalem and to her idols? W herefore it shall come
to pass, that when the Lord hath performed his whole
work upon mount Zion and upon Jerusalem, L will
punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyr­
ia, and the gloiy of his high looks. For he saith, by
the strength of my hand and by my wisdom I have
done these things: for I am prudent: and I have mov­
ed the borders of the people, and have robbed their
treasures, and’l have put down the inhabitants liken
valiant man: and my hand hath found as a nest the
riches ef the people; and as one gathereth eggs that
are left, have I gal hered all the earth; and there was
none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or
peeped. Shall the axe boast itself against him that
heweth therewith? Shall the saw magnify itself
against him that shakelh it? as if the rod should shake
itself against them that lift it up, or as if the staff
should lift up itself, as if it were no wood. '*Therefore
shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his
ones leanness; and under his glory he shall*kindle a
burning like the burning of a fire. And the light of
104 SECOND BOOK OF N EPH I,
Israel ehallbefor a fire, and his Holy One for a flame,
and shall burn and shall devour his thorns and his bri­
ers in one day; and shall consume the glory ofhis for­
est, and of his fruitful field, both soul and body; and
they shall be as when a standard-bearer- fainteth.—
And the rest of the trees of his forest shall.be few, that
a child may write them. •
And.it shall come to pass in that day, that the rem­
nant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of
Jacob, shall no more again stay upon-him that smote
them; but shail stay upon the Lord, the Holy One of
Israel, in truth. The remnant shall return, yea, 'even
the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty‘God. For
though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet
a remnant of them shall return: the consumption de­
creed shall overflow with righteousness. For the Lord
God of hosts shall make a consumption, even deter­
mined, in all the land.
Therefore thus saith the Lord God of hosts, O my
people that dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the As­
syrian: he shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up
his staff against thee, after the manner of Egypt. For
yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease,
and mine anger in their destruction. And the Lord
of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according to
the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb; and as
his rod was upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after
the manner of Egypt. And it shall come to pass in
that‘day, that his burden shall be taken away from off
thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the
yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing. He
is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Mich-
mash he hath laid up his carriages: they are gone over
the passage; they have taken up their lodging at Ge-
ba; Ramath is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is fled. Lift up
the voice, O daughter of Gallim; cause it to be heard
unto Laish, O poor Anathoth. Madmen&h is remov­
ed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves to
flee. As yet shall he remain at Ivob that day; heshall
shake his hand against the mount of the daughter of
Zion, the hill of Jerusalem. Behold, the Lord, tlie
Lord of hosts shall lop the bough with terror; and the
high ones of stature shall be hewn down;, and the
haughty shall be humbled. <And he shall cut down
.the thickets k
of. the forests with iron, and Lebanon
shall fall by a mightyone. t In*
* .-jut 9 ssb/tiil
•And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem*Of
Jesse, and A branch shall grow out of his roots; and
the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit
of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel
and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of
the Lord; and shall make him of quick understanding
in the fear of the Lord: and he shall not judge after
the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing
of his ears: but with righteousness shall he judge the
poor* and reprove with equity for the meek Of the
earth: and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his
mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay
tire wicked. And righteousness shall be the girdle of
his loins, and faithfulness the girdle ofhis reins: The
wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard
shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young
lion and the falling together; and a little child shaR
lead them. And the cow and the bear shall feed;
their young ones shall lie down together; and the lion
shall eat straw like the ox. And the sucking child
shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child
shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s den. They shall
not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for the
earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the
waters cover the sea.
And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which
shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the
Gentiles seek: and his rest shall be glorious. And it
shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set
his hand again the second time to recover the remnant
of his people, which shall be left from Assyria, and
from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and
from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and
from the islands of the sea. And he shall set up an
ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts
of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah
from the four corners of the earth. The envy of Eph­
raim also shall depart, and the adversaries of Judah
shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and
Judah shall not vex Ephraim. But they shall fly up­
on the ishoulders of the Philistines toward the west;
they shall spoil them of the east together; they shall.
lav their hand upon Edom and Mo&b; and the children
or'Ammon shall obey them. And the Lord shall ut­
terly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian sea; add‘with
his mighty wind he shall shake ms hand over the riw-
er, and-shall sm iteit intheseyen streams, and make
SECOND BOOK OF KEPB1. 1 6 5
106 3XCOVD BOOK OF H E PH l.
men go over dry shod. And there shall be a highway
for the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from
Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the day that he
came up out ofthe land of Egypt. *
And in that day thou shall say, O Lord, I will praise
thee: though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is
turned away, and thou comlbrtedst me. Behold, God
is my salvation; 1 will trust, and not be afraid: for
the Lord, JEHOVAH is my strength and my song;
he also has become my salvation. Therefore with joy
shall ye draw water out of the wells of salvation.—
And in that day shall ye say, praise the Lord, call up­
on his name, declare his doings among tire people,
make mention that his name is exalted. Sing unto
the Lord; for he hath done excellent things: this is
known in all the earth. Cry out and shout, thou in­
habitant of Zion; for great is the Holy One of Israel
in the midst of thee. ,
•3
*
.
CHAPTER X.
T he burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of
Amos did see. Lift ye up a banner upon the high
mountain, exalt the voice unto them, shake the hand,
that they may"go into the get'’: the nobles. I have
commanded my so .untied ones, I have also called my
mighty ones, for mine anger is not upon them that re­
joice in my highness. The noise of the multitude in
the mountains like os of a great people; a tumultuous
noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered togethen
the Loid of hosts mustereth the hosts of the battle.—
They come from a far country, from the end of heav­
en, yea, the Lord, and the weapons of his indignation,
to destroy the whole land, - . . . .
Howl ye; for the day of the Lord is at hand: it shall
come as a destruction from the Almighty. Therefore
shall all hands be faint, every man’s heart shall melt;
and they shall be afraid; pangs and sorrows shall take
bold of them; they shall be amazed one at another)
their faces shall be as flames:. Behold, the day ofthe
Lord cornelh, cruel both .with wrath and fierce anger*
to lay the land desolate: and be .shall destroy the sii>
ner#,thereofout ofi. it. For the stars of he»yMW»b6
SECOND BOOK Of N E fH l.
the constellations thereof shall not give their light;
the sun shall be darkened in her going forth, and the
moon shall not cause her light to shine. And I tvill
punish the world for evil, and the wicked for their in­
iquity; I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease,
and will lay down the haughtiness of the terrible* ■I
will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a
man than the golden wedge of Ophir. Therefore I
will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out
of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of hosts, and in
the day of his fierce anger. And it shall be as the
chased roe, and as a .sheep that no man taketh up:
and they shall every man turn to his own people, and
flee every one into his own land. Every one that is
proud shall be thrust through; yea, and every one that
is joined to the wicked, shall fall by the sword. Their
children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes;
their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravish­
ed. Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them,
which shall not regard silver andgold, nor they shall
not delight in it. Their bows shall also dash the young
men to pieces; and they shall have no pity on the
fruit of the womb; their eyes shall not spare chil­
dren.
And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of
the Chaldees' excellency, shall be as when God over­
threw Sodom and Gomorrah. It shall never be in­
habited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to
generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there;
neither shall the shepherds make iheir fold there: but
wild beasts ofthe desert shalllie there; and their hous­
es shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall
dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there. And the
wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate
houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her
time is near to come, and her day shall not be prolong­
ed. For I will destroy her speedily; yea, for I wilt
be merciful unto my people: but the wicked shall per­
ish.
For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet
choose Israel, *and set them ift their own land: and
the strangers shall be joined with them, and they shall
cleave to the house of Jacob. And the people shall
take them, and bring them to their place;- yea, front
far unto the ends'of the earth: *and they shall return
to their lands of promise. And’the house of Israel
shall possess them, and the land of the Lord shall be
108 SECOND BOOK OK NEPH I.
for servants and handmaids; and they shall take them
captives, unto whom they were captives; and they
shall rule over their oppressors. .And it shall come to
pass in that day that the Lord shall give thee rest,
from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard
bondage wherein thou wast made to serve. ,
And it shall come to pass, in that day, that thou
shalt take up this proverb against the king of Babylon,
and say, how hath the oppressor ceased, .the golden
city ceased! The Lord hath broken the staff of the
wicked, the sceptres of the rulers. He who smote the
people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that ruled
the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hinder-
eth. The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they
break forth into singing. Yea, the fir-trees rejoice at
thee, and also the cedars of Lebanon, saying, since
thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.—
Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at
thy coming; it stirrelh up the dead for thee, even all
the chief ones of the earth: it hath raised up from
their thrones all the kings of the nations. All they
shall speak and say unto thee, art thou also become
weak as wet Art thou become like unto us! Thy
pomp is brought down to the grave; the noise of thy
viols is not heard; the worm is spread under thee,
and the worms cover thee. How art thou fallen from
heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! Art thou cut
down to the ground, which did weaken the nations!
For thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into
heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God;
- I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation,'in
the sides of the north; I will ascend above the heights
of the clouds; I will he like the Most High, Yet thou
shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of,the pit.
They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and
shall consider thee, and shall say, is this the man that
made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms,
and;made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the
csties thereof, and opened not the house of his prison­
ers! All the kings ofthe nations, yea, all of them, lie
in glory, every one of them in his own house..But
thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable
branch, and the remnant of those that are slain, thrust
through with a swerd, that go down to the stones of
the pit; as a carcass trodden under feet. Tbpu shalt
not be joined with them in burial, because.thou,l>as.t
destroyed -thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of
SECOND BOOK OF N EPH I, 109
evil-doors: shall never be renowned, ^ Prepare slaugh­
ter for his children-for the iniquities of their fathers;
that they do not rise, nor possess theland, nor fill the
faceof the word with cities. _For I will riseup against
them, saith the Lord of hosts, and cut off from Baby^
loa the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew,
saith the Lord. I will also make it a/possession for
the bittern, and pools of water; and I-will sweep it
with the besom of destruction, saith the Lord of
hosts-)' .
The Lord:of hosts hath sworn, saying, surely as I
have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as 1 have
purposed, so shall it stand: that I will bring the.As­
syrian in my land, and-upon my mountains tread him
under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them;
and his ,burden depart from oft'their shoulders. This
is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth:
and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all na­
tions. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who
shall disannul-! And his hand stretched out, and who
shall tum it back? In the year that king Ahaz died
was this burden. :
. sRejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod
of him that*smote thee:is broken: for out of the ser­
pent’s root shall eome forth a cockatrice, and his fruit
shall’be a fiery flying serpent. And the first-born of
the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in
safety:^and >
1will kill thy root with famine, and he
shall slay, thy remnant; Howl,.0 gate; cry, O city;
thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved: for there shall
come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone
in his appointed times. *W hat shall then answer the
messengers of the nations? That, the Lord hath foun­
ded .Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in it.
• •
• ••• - i n
■... - i - . v.v;',, f : vt M
U ri
m O i'-iW , ’* O W j g h t » ) : r i n i t i .1 .- ‘A i . • -
*,u h»v ■ CHAPTER; XL ... *
M
t l h.v- >vai o ve.
Now I, ■
Nephi, do epeak’somewhat concerning the
words which I have written, which have been spoken
by thdimouth oflsaiah,; For behold, Isaiah, spake
many-things which were -hard. for many of my;people
to understand: fortheyfcnow not concerning;the mam
w Ip •wsFtrMt {
e?r*l adI
1 1 0 6XCOKD BOOK OF K E PH I.
ner of prophesying among the Jews. For I, Nephi,
have not taught them many things concerning the
manner of the Jews; for their works were works of
darkness, and their doings were doings of abomina­
tions. Wherefore, I write unto my people, unto alt
those that shall receive hereafter these things which I
write, that they may know the judgments of God,,
that they come upon ull nations, according to the
word which he hath spoken. Wherefore hearken, G
my people, which are of the house of Israel, and give
ear unto my words: for because the words of Isaiah
are not plain unto you, nevertheless they are plain un­
to all those that are filled with the spirit of prophecy.
But I give unto you a prophecy, according to the spir­
it which is in me; wherefore 1 shall prophesy accord­
ing to the plainness which hath been with me from
the time that I came out from Jerusalem with my fath­
er: for behold, my soul delighteth in plainness unto
my people, that they may learn; yea, and my soul
delighteth in the words of Isaiah, for I came out from
Jerusalem, and mine eyes hath beheld the things of
the Jews, and I know that the Jews do understand
the things of the prophets, and there is none other
people that understand the things which were spoken
unto the Jews, like unto them, save it be that they
are taught after the manner of the things of the Jews.
But behold, I Nephi, have not taught my children af­
ter the manner or the Jews; but behold, I, of myself,
have dwelt at Jerusalem, wherefore I know concern­
ing the regions round about; and I have made men­
tion unto my children concerning the judgments of
God, which hath come to pass among the Jews, unto
my children, according to all that which Isaiah bath
spoken, and I do not write them. But behold, I pro­
ceed with mine own prophecy, according to my plain­
ness; in the which, I know that no man can err;
nevertheless, in the days that the prophecies of Isaiah
shall be fulfilled, men shall know of a surety, at the
times when they shall come to pass; wherefore, they
are of worth unto the children of men, and he that
supposeth that they are not, unto them will I speak
particularly, and confine the words unto mine awn
people: for I know that they shall be of great worth
unto them in the last days; for in that day shall they
understand them; wherefore, for their good haye I
written them.v And as one generation hath been dee*
troyed among the Jews, because of iniquity, even so
SECOND BOOK OF RK7B1. Ill
hare they been destroyed, from generation to genera*
tion, according to their iniquities; and never hath any
of them been destroyed, save it were foretold them by
the prophets of the Lord. Wherefore, it hath been
told them concerning the destruction which should
come upon them, immediately after my father left Je­
rusalem; nevertheless, they hardened their hearts}
and according to my prophecy, they have been des­
troyed, save it be those which are carried away cap­
tive into Babylon. And now this 1 speak because o f
the Bpirit which is in me. And notwithstanding they
have been carried away, they shall return again, and
possess the land of Jerusalem; wherefore they shall be
restored again to the land of their inheritance. But,
behold,, they shall have wars, and rumors of wars;
and when the day cometh that the only begotten of
the father, yea, even the Father of heaven and of
earth, shall manifest himself unto them in the flesh,
behold, they will reject him, because of their iniqui­
ties, and the hardness of their hearts, and the stiff­
ness of their necks. Behold they will crucify him,
and after he is laid in a sepulcher for the space of
three days, he shall rise from the dead, with healing
in his wings, and all those who shall believe on his
name, shall be saved in the kingdom of God: where
fore, my soul delighteth to prophesy concerning him,
for I have seen Ins day, and my heart doth magnify
his holy name. .1
And-behold it shall come to pass, that after the Mes­
siah hath risen from the dead, and hath manifested
himself unto his. people, unto as many as will believe
on his name, ^behold, Jerusalem shall be destroyed
again: for wo unto them that fight against God and
the people of his church. Wherefore, the Jews shall
be scattered am6ng all nations; yea, and also Babylon
shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews shall be scat­
tered by other nations; and after they have been scat­
tered, and the Lord God hath scourged them by other
nations, for the space of. many generations, yea, even
down from generation to generation, -until they shall
be persuaded to believe ia ’Christ, the Son of God,
and the atonement, which is infinite for all mankind;
and when that day shall come, that they shall believe
in Christ, and worship the Father in his name, with
pure hearts, and d ean hands, and look not forward
any more for another Messiah, then, at that time, the
day will, come,that it must needs be expedient that
they should believe these things, and the Lord will set
his hand again the second time to restore his people
from their lost and fallen state. Wherefore, he will
proceed to do a marvellous work, and a wonder among
the children of men.
Wherefore, he shall bring forth his words unto
them, which words shall judge them at the last day,
for they shall be given them for the purpose of con­
vincing them of the true Messiah, who was rejected
by them; and unto the convincing of them that they
need not look forward any more for a Messiah to
come, for there should not any come, save it should
be a false Messiah, which should deceive the people:
for there is save one Messiah spoken of by the proph­
ets, and that Messiah is he who should be rejected
of the Jews. For according to the words of the
prophets, the Messiah cometh in six hundred years
from the time that my father left Jerusalem; and ac­
cording to the words of the prophets, and also the
word of the angel of God, his name shall be Jesus
Christ, the Son of God.
And now my brethren, I have spoken plain, that ye
cannot err; and as the Lord God liveth, that brought
Israel up out of the land of Egypt, and gave unto Mo­
ses power that he should heal the nations, after they
bad been bitten by the poisonous serpents, if they
would cast their eyes unto the serpent which he did
raise up before them, and also gave him power that he
should smite the rock, and the water should come
forth; yea, behold I say unto you, that as these things
are true, and as the Lord God liveth, there is none
other name given under heaven, save it be this Jesus
Christ of which I have spoken, whereby man can be
saved. -kt
Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God prom­
ised unto me that these things which I write, shall be
kept and preserved, and handed down unto my seed,
from generation to generation1
, that, the promise may
be fulfilled unto Joseph,* that his seed should never
perish as long as the earth should stand. Wherefore,
these things shall go from generation to generation as
long as the earth shall stand; and they-shall sgo'ac-
cording to the will and pleasure of Goa; and the na­
tions who shall possess them, shall be judged of lhetn
according to the words which are written; for We la­
bor diligently to write, to persuade our1children, and
also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and toi he fee*
* #
u
113 SJSCOKD BOOK OF NEPHI.
oncile.d to God;. for we know that it is by grace that
we are saved, after all we can £o*
And notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we keep
the law of Moses,<
a.nq look forward.with steadfastness,
unto Christ, until the law shall be fulfilled; for, for
this end was the law given; wherefore, the law hath
become dead unto us, and we are made alive in Christ,
because of our faith: yet we keep the law because of
the commandments; and we talk of Christ, we rejoice
in Christ, we preach of Christ,- we prophesy of Christ,
and wa write according to our prophecies, that our
children may know to what source they may look fpr
a remission of their, sins. Wherefore, we speak con­
cerning the law, that our children may know the dead­
ness ot the law; and they, by knowing the deadness
of the law, may look forward unto that life which is
in Christ, and know for what end the law, was given.
And after the law ishullilled in Christ, that they need
not harden their hearts against him, when the law
ought to be done away.
And now behold, my people, ye are a stiffnecked
people; wherefore, I have ^spoken plain unto you,
that ye cannot misunderstand. And the words which
I have spoken, shall stand as a testimony against you:
for they are sufficient t,o. teach any man the right
way: for the right way is to believe in Christ and de­
ny him not-; for by denying him,' ye .also deny the
prophets and the law.
And now behold I say unto you, that the right way
is to believe in Christ, and deny him not; and Christ
is the lloly One of Israel: wherefore ye must bovtj,
down before him, and worship him with all your
might, mind, and strength, and your whole soul; and
if ye do this, ye shall in no wise be cast out. • And in­
asmuch as it shall be expedient, ye must keep the
performances and ordinances of God, until the law
shall be fulfilled which was given unto Moses. . .
And after Christ shall have risen from the dead, he
shall shew himself unto you, my children, and my be­
loved brethren; and the words which he shall speak
unto you, shall be the law which ye shall do. For
behold, I say unto you, that I have beheld that many
generations shall pass away, and there shall- be great
wars and contentions among my people. And after
the Messiah shall come, there shall lie signs given un­
to my people of his birth,^and also of his deaih and
H' . V,!,’ . . ■
wt-'i ■ ,;■*.( ...
SECOND BOOS. OP KEPHIv 1 1 3
resurrection; and great and terrible shall that day be
unto the wicked; for they shall perish; and they per­
ish because they cast out the prophets, and the saints,
and stone them, and slay them: wherefore the cry of
the blood of the saints shall ascend up to God from
the ground, against them. Wherefore all those who
are proud, and that do wickedly, the day that cometh
shall burn them up saith the, Lord of hosts, for they
shall be as stubble; and they that kill the prophets,
and the saints, the depths of the earth shall swallow
them up, saith the Lord of hosts; and mountains
shall cover them, and whirlwinds shall carry them
away, and buildings shall fall upon them, and crush'
them to pieces and grind them to powder; and they
shall be visited with thunderings. and lightnings, and
earthquakes, and all manner of destructions, for the
fire of the anger of the Lord shall he kindled against
them, and they shall be as stubble, and the day that
cometh shall consume them, saith the Lord of hosts.
O the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss
of the slain of my people! For I, Ncphi, hath seen
it, and it well nigh consumeth me before the presence
of the Lord; but I must cry unto my God, thy ways
are just. But behold, the righteous, that hearken un­
to the words of the prophets, and destroy them not,
but look forward unto Christ with steadfastness for
the signs which are given, notwithstanding all perse­
cutions; behold they are they which shall not perish.
But the Son of righteousness shall appear unto them;
and he shall heal them, and they shall have peace
with him, until three generations shall have passed
away, and many of the fourth generation shall have
passed away in righteousness. And when these things
have passed away, a speedy destruction cometh unto
my people; for, notwithstanding the pains of my
soul, I have seen it; wherefore, 1 know that it shall
come to pass; and they sell themselves for nought;
for, for the reward of their pride, and their foolish­
ness, they shall reap destruction; for because they-
yield unto the devil, and choose works of darkness
rather than light; therefore they must go down to
hell, for the spirit of the Lord will not always strive
with man. And when the spirit ceaseth to strive
with man, then cometh speedy destruction; and this
grieveth my soul. - ' *
And as I spake concerning the convincing of the
Jews, that Jesus is the very Christ, it must needs b%
114 SECOND BOOK OF NEPH1.
SECOND BOOK: OS' N EPH f. 115
that the Gentiles be convinced also, that Jesus is the
Christ, the eternal God; and that he manifesteth
himselfunto all those who believe in him; by the pov£-
er of the Holy Ghost; yea, unto every nation^ kind-,
red, tongue, and people, working mighty miracles,
signs and wonders, among the children of men, ac­
cording to their faith.
But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the
last days; concerning the days when the Lord God
shall bring these things forth unto, the children of
men. After my seed and the seed of ray brethren
shall have dwindled in unbelief, and shall have been
smitten by the Gentiles; yea, after the Lord God
shall have camped against them round about, and
shall have laid ssige against them with a mount, and
raised forts against them; and after they shall have
been brought down low in the dust; even that they
are not, yet the words of the righteous shall be writ­
ten, and the prayers ®fthe faithful shall be heard, and
all those who have dwindled inr unbelief, shall not be
forgotten; for those who shall be destroyed*shall
speak unto them out of the ground, and their speech
•shall be low out of the dust, and their voice shall he
as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the Lord God
will give unto him power, that he may whisper con­
cerning them, even as it-were out of the ground; and
their speech shall whisper out of the dust. For thus
saith the Lord God: They shall write the things
which shall be done among them, and they shall be
written and sealed up in a book, and those who have
dwindled in unbelief, shall not have them, for they
seek to destroy the, things of God; wherefore, as those
who have been destroyed, have been destroyed speed­
ily; and the multitude of their terrible ones, shall be
as chaff that passeth away. Yea,-thus saith the Lord
God: It shall be at an instant, suddenly.
And it shall come to pasB, that those who havedwin­
dled in unbelief, shall be smitten by the hand of the
Gentiles. And the Gentiles are lifted up in the pride
of their eyes, and have stumbled, because of the great­
ness of their stumblirig block, that they have built up
many churches; nevertheless they put down the pow­
er and the miracles of God,, and preach up unto them­
selves, their own wisdom, and their own learning,
that they may get gain, and grind upon the face of
the poor; and there are many churches built up which
cause envyings, and strifes, and malice;' and there
are also secret combinations,-even-as in times of old,
according to the combinations of the devil, for he is
the foundation of all these things; yea, the founda­
tion of) murder, and sworks of darkness; yea, and he
leadeth them by the neck with a flaxen cord, until he
bindeth them with his strong cords forever.
For behold, my beloved brethren, I say*unto you,
that the Lord God workelh not in darkness. He
doeth not any thing; save it be for the benefit of the
world; for he loveth the world, even that he layelh
down his own life, that he may -draw all men unto
him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that they
siiail not partake of his salvation. Behold, doth he
cry unto any, saying, depart from me? Behold, 1
say unto you nay; but he saith, come unto me all ye
ends of the earth, buy milk and honey, without mon­
ey, and without price. Behold, hath lie commanded
any that they should depart out of the synagogues, or
out of the houses of worship? Behold; 1 say unto
you, nay. Hath he commanded any that they should
not p&rtake of his salvation'! Behold, 1say unto you,
hay; but he hath given it free for all men; and he
hath commanded his people that they should persuade-
all men to repentance. Behold, hath the Lord com­
manded any that they should not partake of his good­
ness? Behold, I say unto you, nay; but all men are
privileged the one. like unto the other, and none are
forbidden. He commandeth that there shall be no
priest-crafts; for, behold,- priest-crafts are that men
preach ami set themselves up for a light unto the
world, that they may get gain, and piaise of the
world; but they seek not the welfare of Zion. Be­
hold, the Lora hath forbidden this thing; wherefore,
the Lord God)hath given a commandment, that all
men should have charity, which charity is love. And
except they should have charity, they were nothing:
wherefore, if they should have charity, they would'not
sufter tha laborer in Zionto perish. But the laborer
in Zion, shall labor for Zion; for if they labor for
money, they shall'perish. And, again, the Lord (Sod
hath commanded that men should not murder; that
they should not lie; that they should not steal; that
they should not take the name of the Lord their God
in vain; that they should not envy; that they .should
not have malice: that they should not contend.one
with another; tint they should not commit whore­
doms; and that they should do none of these things;
116 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.*
for whoso doeth them, shall perish; for none,of these
iniquities eome of the Lord; for he doeth that which
is good among the children of men: apd he doeth no­
thing save it be plain unto the children; of men; and
he inviteth them all to come unto him, and partake of
his goodness; and he denieth none that cOme unto
him, black and white, bond and free, male and female;
and lie rememhereth the heathen, and all are alike un- j
to God, both Jew and Gentile. But, behold, in the j
last days, or in the days of the Gentiles; vea, behold '
all the nati®ns of the Gentiles, and also the Jews,,
botli those, who shall come upon this land, and .those
who shall be upon other lands; ,yea, even .upon all J
tiie lands of the earth; behold, they will be drunken .
with iniquity, and all manner of abominations; and j
when that day shall come, they shall be visited^ of the .
Lord of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake,
and with a great noise, apd with storm and with tem-
pest, and with the flame of devouring fire; and all the 1
nations that fight against Zion, and that distressfhjer,
shall be as a dream of a night vision; yea, it sbqdi be
unto them, even as unto a hungry, man, .whicl^.dream-
eth, and behold lie. eatheth; but lie awaketh and his .
soul is empty; or like unto a thirsty man, which . ^
dreameth, and behold he drinketh, hut he awaketh,
and behold he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: yea,
even so shall the multitude of all the. nationsfbe that *
fight against mount Zion; for behold, all ye that do
iniquity, stay yourselves and wonder, for ye shall cry
out, and cry, yea, ye shall be drunken, but not with /
wine; ye shall stagger, but not with, strong drink:
for behold, the Lord hath poured out upon you, the
spirit of deep sleep. For behold, ye haye closed your
eyes, and ye have rejected the prophet^ and your ru­
lers, and the seers hath lie covered because of your
iniquity.
•And it shall' come to pass, that the Lord God shall I
bring forth unto you, the words of a book, and they j
shall be the words of them which have slumbered.-— f
And behold the book shall be sealed; and in the .hook l
shall he a revelation from God^ from the- beginnirig of '
the world, to the ending thereof. Wherefore^ .be- f
cause of the things Which are sealed up,the things
which are sealed, shall not be delivered in the day of
the wickedness and abominations of the people.—
Wherefore the book shall be kept from- them.. But
the book shall be delivered, unto a man, and he shall
SECOND BOOK OP NEPH l. 1 1 7
118 SECOND BOOK OF HEPH I.
deliver the words of the book, which are the words of
those who have slumbered in the dust; and he shall
deliver these words unto another; but the words which
are sealed, he shall not deliver, neither shall he deliv­
er the book. For the book shall be sealed by the
power of God, and the revelation which was sealed,
shall be kept in the book until the own due time of
the Lord, that they may come forth: for, behold, they
reveal all things from the foundation of the world,
unto the end thereof. And the day eometh that the
words of the book which were sealed, shall be read
upon the house-tops: and they shall be read by the
power of Christ: and all things shall be revealed unto
the children of men which ever have been among the
children of men, and which ever will be, even unto
the end of the earth. Wherefore, at that day when
the book shall be delivered unto the man of whom I
have spoken, the book shall be hid from the eyes of
the world, that the eyes of none shall behold it, save
it be that three witnesses shall behold it, by the power
of God, besides bim to whom the book shall be deliv­
ered; and they shall testify to the truth of the book,
and the things therein. And there is none other
which shall view it, save it be a few, according to the
will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto the
children of men: for the Lord God hath said, that
the words of the faithful should speak as if it were
from the dead. Wherefore, the Lord God will pro­
ceed to bring forth the words of the book: and in the
mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him good,
will he establish his word; and wo be unto him that
rejecleth the word of God.
But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God
shall say unto him to whom he shall deliver the book,
take these words which are not sealed, and deliver
them to another, that he may- shew them unto the
learned, saying: read this, I pray thee. And the
learned shall say, bring hither the book, and I will^
read them: and now, because of the glory of the
world, and to get gain, will they say this, and not for
the glory of God, And the man shall say. I cannot
bring the book, for it is sealed. Then shall the learn­
ed say, I cannot read it. Wherefore it shall come to
pass, that the Lord God will deliver again the book
and the words thereof, to him that is not learned; and
the man that is not learned, shall say, 1 am not learn­
ed. Then shall the Lord God Bay unto him, the
learned shall not read them,' for they have rejected
them, and I am able to do mine own work; where­
fore, thou shalt read the words which-1 shall give un­
to thee. Touch not the things which are sealed, for
I will bring them forth in mine own due time: for I
will shew unto the children of men, that I am able to
do mine own work. Wherefore, when thou hast read
the words which I have commanded thee, apd obtain­
ed the witnesses which I have promised unto thee,
then shalt thou seal up the book again, and hide it up
unto me, that 1 may preserve the words which thou
hast not read, until I shall see fit in mine own wis­
dom, to reveal all things unto the children of men.
For behold, I am God; and I am a God of miracles;
and I will shew unto the world that I am the same
yesterday, to-day, and forever; and 1 work not among
the children of men, save it be according to their faith.
And again it shall come to pass, that the Lord shall
say unto him that shall read the words that shall be
delivered him, forasmuch as this people draw near
unto me with their mouth, and with their lips do hon­
or me, but have removed their hearts far from me,
and their fear towards me is taught by the precepts of
men, therefore, I will proceed to do a marvellous work
among this people; yea, a marvellous work, and a
wonder: for the wisdom of their wise and learned
shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent
shall be hid. And wo unto them that seek deep to
hide their counsel from the Lord. And their works
are in^the dark; and they say, who seeth us; and
who knowelh us? And they also say, surely, your
turning of things upside down, shall be esteemed as
tire potter’s clay. But behold, 1 will shew unto them,
saith the Lord of hosts, that I know all their works.
For shall the work say of him that made it, he made
me not? Or shall the thing framed say of him that
framed it, he had no understanding? But behold,
saith the Lord of hosts, I will shew unto the children
ofmen, that it is not yet a very little while, and Leb­
anon shall be turned into a fruitful field; and the fruit­
ful field shall be esteemed as a forest. And in that
day shall the deaf hear the words of the book; and
the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and put
of darkness; and the meek also shall increase, and
their joy shall be in the Lord; and the'poor among
men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. For as­
suredly as the Lord livetb, they shall see that the ter-
*
SBCOKD BOOK OF NZPHL 119
ISO
rible one is brought to nought, and the seorner is con­
sumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off;
and they that make a man an offender lor a word, and
lay a snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and
turn aside the just for a thing of nought, 't herefore
thus saith the Lord, who redeemed Abraham, con­
cerning the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be
ashamed, neither shall his face now wax pale. But
when he seeth his children, the work of my hands, in
the midst ofi him, they shall sanctify my name, and
sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the
God of Israel, They also that erred in spirit shall
ccme to understanding, and they that murmured shall
learn doctrine. -- - > -
SECOND BOOK*OF N EPH I.
>
CHAPTER XII.
✓
And now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto
you according as, the spirit hath constrained me;
wherefore, I know that they must surely come to pass.
The things which sluili be written out of the book
shall be of great worth unto the children of men, and
especially unto our seed, which is a remnant of the
house of Israel, For it shall come to pass in that
day, that the churches which are built up, and not
unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto the other,
Behold, I, I am the Lora’s; and the other shall say,
I, I am the Lord’s. And thus shall- every one say,
that hath built up churches, and not unto the Lord;
and they shall contend one with another; and their
priests shall contend one with another; and they shall
teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost,
which giveth utterance. And they deny the power of
God, the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the
people, hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept:
for behold, there is no God to-day, for the Lord and
the Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given
his power unto men. Behold, hearken ye unto my
precept; if they shall say tjiere is a miracle wrought,
by the band of tire Lord, believe it not; for this day
he is not a God of miracles; he hath done his work.
Yea, and there shall be many^which shall say, eat.
SECOND BOOK OF KEPH I,
* . •*
drink, and be merry, for to-morrow we die: and it
shall be well with us. And there shall also be many
which shall say, eat, drink, and be merry; neverthe­
less, fear God, he will justify in committing a little
sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because
of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no
harm in this. And do all these things, for to-morrow
we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will
beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be
saved in the kingdom of God. Yea. and there shall
be many which shall teach after this manner, false,
and vain, and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up
in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their coun­
sels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the
dark; and the blood of the saints shall cry from the
ground against them. Yea, they have all gone out of
the way; they have become corrupted. Because of
pride, and because of false teachers, and false doctrine,
their churches have become corrupted; and their
churches are lifted up; because of pride, they are puff­
ed up. They rob the poor, because of their fine sanc­
tuaries; they rob the poor, because of their fine cloth­
ing; and they persecute the meek, and the poor in
heart;because in their pride, they are puffed up.—
They wear stiff necks, and high heads; yea, and be­
cause of pride, and wickedness, and abominations,
and whoredoms, they have all gone astray, save it be
a few, who are the humble followers of Christ; nev­
ertheless, they are led, that in many instances they do
err, because they are taught by the precepts of men.
O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are
puffed up in the pride of their hearts, and all those
who preach false doctrines, and all those who commit
whoredoms, and jiervert the right way of the Lord;
wo, wo, wo be unto them, saith the Lord God Al­
mighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell.
Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing
of nought, and revile against that which is good, ana
say that is of no worth: for the day shall come that
the Lord.God will speedily visit the inhabitants of the
earth; and in that day that they are fully ripe in ini­
quity, they shall perish. But behold, if 1he inhabit­
ants of the earth shall repent of their wickedness and
abominations, they shall not be destroyed, saith the
Lord of hosts. But behold, that great and abomina­
ble church, the whore ofall the earth, must tumble to
181
122 SECOKD BOOK OF H IP H I.
the earth; and great must be the fall thereof; for the
kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which
belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance,
or the devil will grasp them with Ins everlasting
chains, and they be stirred up to anger and perish;
for behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of
the children of men, and stir them up to anger against
that which is good; and others will he pacify, and lull
them away into carnal security, that they will say,
all is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well;
and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth
them away carefully down to hell. And behold, oth­
ers he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no
hell; and he saith unto them, I am no devil, for there
is none: and thus he whispereth in their ears, until
lie grasps them with his awful chains, from whence
there is no deliverance. Yea, they are grasped with
death and hell; and death, and hell, and tire devil,
and all that have been seized therewith, must stand
before the throne of God, and be judged according 1
0
their works, from whence they must go into the place
prepared for them, even a lake of fire and brimstone,
which is endless torment. Therefore, wo be unto him
that is at ease in Zion. VYo be unto him that crieth,
all is well; yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto
the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God
and the gift of the Holy Ghost. Yea, wo be unto
him that saith, we have received, and we need no
more. And in fine, wo unlo all those who tremble,
and are angry because of the truth of God. For be­
hold, he that is built upon the rock, recciveth it with
gladness; and he that is built upon a sandy founda­
tion, trembleth, lest he sliali fall.
Wo be unto him that shall say, we have received
the word of God, and we need no more of the word of
God, for we have enough. For behold, thus saith the
Lord God: I will give unto the children of men line
upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there
a little; and blessed are those who hearken unto my
precepts, and lend an carunto my counsel, for they shall
learn wisdom: for unto him that receiveth, I will give
more: and from them that shall say, we have enough,
from them shall be taken away even that which they
have. Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or
maketh flesh his arm, or shall hearken unto the pre­
cepts of men, save their precepts shall be given by the
power of the Holy Ghost. * ■ .
SECOND BOOS OB NEPHI. 133
Wo be unto the Gentiles, Faith the Lord God of
host: for notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine
arm unto them from day to day, they will deny me;
nevertheless, I will be merciful unto them, saith the
Lord God, if they will repent and come unto me: for
mine arm is lengthened out all the day long, saith the'
Lord God of hosts.
But behold, there shall he many at that day, when
I shall proceed to do a marvellous work among them,
that 1 may rememher my covenants which I have
made unto the children of men, that 1 may set my
hand again the second time to recover my people,
which are of the house of Israel; and also, that I may
remember the promises which I have made unto thee,
Nephi, and also unto thy? father, that I would remcm-
her your seed: and that the words of your seed should
proceed forth out of my mouth unto your seed. And
iny words shall hiss forth unto the ends of the earth,
for a standard unto my people, which are ofthe house
of Israel. And because iny words shall hiss forth,
many of the Gentiles shall say, a bible, a Bible, we
have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible.
But thus eaillt the Lord God: O fools, they shall
have a bible; and it shall proceed forth from the Jews,
mine ancient covenant people. And what thank
they the Jews for the bible which they receive from
them! Yea, what do the Gentiles mean? Do they
remember the travels, and the labors, and the pains of
the Jews, and their diligence unto me, in bringing
forth salvation unto the Gentiles?
O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine
ancient covenant people? nay; but ye have cursed
them, and have haled them, and have not sought to
recover them. But behold, I will return all these
things upon your own heads: for I the Lord, hath not
forgotten rny people. Thou fool, that shall say, a bi-
ble, we have got a bible, and we need no more bible.
Have ye obtained a bible, save it were by the Jews?
Know ye not that there are more nations than one?
Know ye not that I the Lord your God, have created
all men, and that I remember those who are upon the
isles of the Bca; and that I rule in the heavens above,
and in the earth beneath; and I bring forth my word
unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the na­
tions of the earth? Wherefore murmur ye, because
that ye shall receive more of m j word? Know ye not
that the testimony of two nations is a witness unto
124 SECOND BOOK OF MEPHI.
you that I am God, that I remember one nation like
unto another? Wherefore, I speak the same woids
unto one nation like unto another. And when the
two nations shall run together, the testimony of the
two nations shall run together also. And 1 do this
that 1 may prove unto many, that 1 am the same yes­
terday, to-day, and forever; and that I speak forth
my words according to mine own pleasure. And be­
cause that I have spoken one w»rd, ye need not sup­
pose that I cannot speak another; for my work is not
yet finished; neither shall it be, until the end of man;
neither from that time henceforth and forever.
Wherefore, because that ye have a bible, ye need
not suppose that it contains all my words; neither
need ye suppose that I have not caused more to be
written: for I command all men, both in the east, and
in the west, and in the north, and in the south, and in
the islands of the sea, that they shall write the words
which I speak unto them: for out of the hooks which
shall he written, 1 will judge the world, every man ac­
cording to their works, according to that which is
written. For behold, 1 shall speak unto the Jews,
and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto
the Nephites, and they shall write it; And I shall al­
so speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel,
which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I
shall also speak unto all nations of the earth, and they
shall write it.
And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have
the words ol the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have
the words of the Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews
shall have the words of the lost tribes of Israel; and
the lost tribes of Israel shall have the words of the
Nephites and the Jew's.
And it shall come to pass that my people which are
of the House of Israel, shall be gathered home unto
the lauds of their possessions; and my word also shall
be gathered in one. And I will shew unto them that
light against my w'ord and against my people, who are of
the house of Israel, that I am God, and that I covenant­
edwith Abraham that I would remember his seed forever.
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I would
speak unto you: for I, Nephi, would not suffer that
ye should suppose that ye are more righteous than
the Gentiles shall be. For behold, except ye shall
keep the commandments of God ye shall all likewise
perish; and because of the words which have been
SKCOSD BOOK OF KKPHI. 135
spoken ye need not suppose that the Gentiles are ut­
terly destroj-ed. For behold, 1 say unto you, that as
many of the Gentiles as will repent, are the covenant
people of the Lord; and as many of the Jews as will
not repent, shall be cast off: for the Lord covenanted
with none, save it he with them that repent and be­
lieve in his Son, who is the Holy One of Israel.
And now, I would prophesy somewhat more con­
cerning the Jews and the Gentiles. For after the
book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be
written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto
the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the
words which are written; and they shall-carry them
forth unto the remnant of our seed. And then shall
the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how
that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are
descendants of the Jews. And the gospel of Jesus
Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, they
shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers,
and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was
had among their fathers. And then shall they rejoice:
for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them
from the hand of God; and their scales of darkness
shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many genera­
tions shall not pass away among them, save they shall
be a white and a delightsome people.
And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are
scattered, also shall begin to believe in Christ; and
they shall b»gin to gather in upon the face of the land; *
and as many as shall believe in Christ, shall also be­
come a delightsome people.
And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall
commence his work, among all nations, kindreds,
tongues, and people, to bring about the restoration ot
his people upon the earth. And with righteousness shall
the Lord God judge the poor, and reprove with equi­
ty, for the meek of the earth. And he shall smite the
earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath
of his lips shall he slay the wicked: for the lime
speedily cometh, that the Lord God shall cause a
great division among the people; and the wicked will
he destroy; and he will spare his people, yea, even if
it so be that he must destroy the wicked by fire. And
righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faith­
fulness the girdle of liis reins. And tiien shall the
wolf dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie
down with the kid; and the calf, and the young lion,
tit'
m SECOND BOOK OF JTEPHI.
and the fat!ing, together; and a little child shall lead
them. And the cow and the bear shall feed; their
young ones shall lie down together; and the lion shall
eat straw like the ox. And the sucking child shall
play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall
put his hand on the cockatrice’s den. They shall not
hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for the
earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as
the waters cover the sea. Wherefore, the things of
all nations shall be made known; yea, all things shall
be made known unto the children of men. There is
nothing which is secret, save it shall be revealed;
there is no works of darkness, save it shall be made
manifest in the light; and there is nothing which is
sealed upon the earth, save it shall be loosed.—
Wherefore, all things which have been revealed unto
the children of men, shall at that day be revealed; and
satan shall have power over the hearts of the children
of men no more, for a long time. And now my be­
loved brethren, 1 must make an end of my sayings.
CHAPTER XIII.
And now I, Neplii, make an end of my prophesy­
ing unto you, my beloved brethren. And I cannot
write but a few things, which I know must surely
come to pass; neither can I write but a few of the
words of my brother Jacob. Wherefore the things
which I Slave written, suffieeth me, save it.be a few
words which I must speak, concerning the doctrine of
Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, ac­
cording to the plainness of my prophesying. For my
soul delighteth in plainness: for after this manner
doth the Lord God work among tire children of inen.
For the Lord God giveth light unto the understand­
ing: for he speaketh unto men according to their lan-
guage, unto their understanding. Wherefore, I would
that ye should remember that I irave spoken unto you,
concerning that prophet which the Lord showed unto
me, that should baptize the Lamb of God, which
should take away the sins of the world. ,
And now, if the Lamb of God, hebeing holy, should
have need to be baptized by water, to fulfil all right*
t" ~
SECOND BOOK O f N EPH I. m
eousness, O then, how much more need have we, be­
ing unholy, to be baptized, yea, even by water. And
now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, where­
in the Lamb of God did fulhl all righteousness in be­
ing baptized by water? Know ye not that he was
holy? But notwithstanding lie being holy, he show-
cth unto the children of men, that according to the
flesh, he humbleth himself before the Father, and wit­
nessed unto the Father that he would be obedient
unto him in keeping his commandments; wherefore,
after he w.as baptized with water, the Holy Ghost de­
scended upon him in the form of a dove. And again;
It shewelh unto the children of men the straightness
of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by which
they should enter, he having set the example before
them. And he said unto the children of men, follow
thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we
follow Jesus, save we shall he willing to keep the
commandments of the Father? And the Father said,
repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in the name of
my beloved Son. And also, the voice of the Son
came unto me saying, he that is baptized in my name,
to him will the Father give the Holy Ghost, like unto
me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things which
yo have seen me do. Wherefore, my beloved breth­
ren, I know that if ye shall follow the Son, witii full
purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy and no decep­
tion before God, but with real intent, repenting of
your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are wilL
ing to take upon you the name of Christ, hy baptism:
yea, by following your Lord and your Savior down
into the water, according to his word; behold, then
shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh
the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then
can ye speak with the longue of angels, and shout
praises unto the Holy One of Israel.
But behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the
voice of the Son unto me, saying, after ye have re­
pented of your sins, and witnessed unto the Father
that ye are willing to keep my commandments, by the
baptism of water, and have received the baptism of
fire and of the Holy Ghost, and can speak with a new
tongue, yea, even with the tongue of angels, and af­
ter this, should deny me, it would have been better for
you, that ye had not known me.
And I heard a voice from the Father, saying, yea,
the words of my beloved, are true and faithful. H
e
128 SECOND BOOK OF NEPH r.
that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved.—
And now, my beloved brethren, I know, by this, that
unless a rnan shall endure to the end, in following the
example of the Son of the living God, he cannot be
saved; wherefore, do the things which I have told
you I have seen, that your Lord and your Redeemer
should do: for, for this cause have they been shown
unto me, that ye might know the gate by which ye
should enter. For the gate by which ye should enter,
is repentance, and baptism by water; and then com*
eth a remission of your sins by fire, and by the Holy
Ghost, And then are ye in this straight and narrow
path which leads to eternal life; yea, ye have entered
in by the gate: ye have done according to the com*
mandments of the Father and the Son; and ye have
received the Holy Ghost, which witnesses of the Fa­
ther and the Son, unto the fulfilling of the promise
which he hath made, that if ye entered in by tire way,
ye should receive.
And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have got>
ten into this straight and narrow path, I #ou!d ask,
if all is done? Behold, Xsay unto you, nay; for ye
have not come thus far, save it were by the word of
Christ, with unshaken failh in him, relying wholly
upon the merits of Him who is mighty to save; where­
fore, ye must press forward with a steadfastness in
Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love
of God and of all men. Wherefore, if ye shall press for­
ward, feasting upon the word of Christ, ^and endure
to the end, behold, thus saith the Father; ye shall
have eternal life.
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the
way; and there is none other way nor name given un­
der heaven, whereby man can be saved in the kingdom
of God. And how, behold, this is the doctrine of
Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is one
God, without end. Amen.
CHAPTER XIV.
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose
that ye ponder somewhat in your hearts, concerning
SECOND BOOK OF KEPH I. 229
that which ye should do, after ye have entered in by
the way. But behold, why do ye ponder these things
in your hearts'? Do ye not remember that l said unto
yon, that after ye had received the Holy Ghost, ye
could speak with the tongue of angels? And now,
how could ye speak with the tongue of angels, save it
were by the Holy Giiostt Angels speak by the pow­
er of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the
words of Christ. Wherefore, I said unto you, feast
upon the words of Christ: for behold, the words of
Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.—
Wherefore, now after 1 have spoken these words, if
ye cannot undeistand them, it will be because ye ask
not neither do ye knock; wherefore, ye are not
brought into the light, but must perish in the dark.
For behold, again 1 say unto you, that if ye will enter
in by the way,, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will
shew unto you all things what ye should do. Behold,
this is the doctrine of Christ; and there will be no
more doctrine given, until after he shall manifest him­
self unto you m the flesh. And when he shall mani­
fest himself unto you in the flesh, the things which
he shall say unto jou, shall ye observe to do.
And now I, ftephi, cannot say more: the spirit
stoppeth mine utterance, and I am left to mourn be­
cause of the unbelief, and the wickedness, and the ig­
norance, and the stiff-neckedness of men: for they
will not eearcii knowledge, nor understand great
knowledge, when it is given unto them in plainness,
even as plain as word can be.
And now my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye
ponder still in your hearts; and it grieveth me that X
must speak concerning this thing. For if ye would
hearken unto the spirit which teacheth a man to pray,
ye would know that ye must pray: for the evil spirit
tcachetil not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he
must not pray. But behold,. I say unto you, that ye
must pray always, and not faint; that ye must not
perform any thing unto the Lord, save in the first
place ye shill pray unto the Father in the name of&ijj
Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance unto
thee, that thy performance may be for the welfare of t
thy soul.
130 SECOND BOOK OF KXPHI.
CHAPTER XV.
And now I, Nephi, cannot write nil the things
which were taught among my people; neither ana 1
mighty m writing, like unto speaking: for when a
man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost, the
power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of
the children of men. But behold, there are many that
harden their hearts against the Holy Spirit, that it
hath no place in them; Wherefore, they cast many
things away which are written, and esteem them as
things of nought. But I, Nephi, have written what 1
have written; and I esteem it as of great worth, and
especially unto my people. Fori pray continually for
them by day, and mme eyes water my pillow by night,
because of them; and J cry unto my God in faith,
and I know that he will hear my cry: and I know
that the Lord God will consecrate my prayers, for the
gain of my people. And the words which I have
written in weakness, will be made strong unto them; for
it persuadeth them to do good; it makelh known unto
them of their fathers; and it speaketh of Jesus, and
persuadeth them to believe in him, and to endure to
the end, which is life eternal. And it speaketh harsh
against sin, according to the plainness of the truth;
wherefore, no man will be angry at the words which I
have written, save he shall be of the spirit of the devil.
1 glory in plainness; 1 glory in truth: I glory in my
Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul from hell. I
have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ,
that 1 shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment
seat. I have charity for the Jew: I say Jew, because
I mean them from whence I came. 1 also have chari­
ty for the Gentiles. But behold, for none of these can
1 hope, except they shall be reconciled unto Christ,
and enter into the narrow gate, and walk in the
straight path, which leads to life, and continue in the
path until the end of the day of probation.
And now, my beloved brethren, and also Jew, and
all ye ends of the earth, hearken unto these words,
and believe in Christ; and if ye believe not in these
words, believe in Christ. Ana if ye shall believe in
Christ, ye will believe in tiiese words: for they are
the words of Christ, and he hath given them unto me;
and they teach all men that they should do good. And
if they are not the words of Christ, judge ye; for
Christ will shew unto you, with power and great glo-
rfOOZ o r JACOB* IS}
ry, that they are his words, at the last Jay; and yon
and I shall stand face to face before his bar; and ye shall
know that I have been commanded ofhim to write these
things, notwithstanding my weakness: and 1 pray the
Father in the name of Christ, that many of us, if not
all, may be saved in his kingdom, at that great and
last day.
And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are
of the house of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I
speak unto you, as the voice of one crying from the
dust: farewell until that great day shall come; and
you that will not partake of the goodness of God, and
respect the words of the Jews, and also my words,
and the words which shall proceed forth out of the
mouth of the Lamb of God, behold, 1bid you an ever­
lasting farewell, for these words shall condemn you at
the last day: for what I seal on earth, shall be brought
against yon at the judgment bar; for thus hath the
Lord commanded me, and I must obey. Amen.
THE BOOK OF JACOB, THE BROTHER OF
NEPHI.
CHAPTER I.
The words of his preaching unto his brethren. He con-
foundeth a man who secketh to overthrow the doctrine
of Christ. Afew words concerning the history of.the
people of Nephi.
For behold, it came to pass that fifty and five years
had passed away, from the lime that Lehi left Jerusa­
lem; wherefore, Nephi gave me, Jacob, a command­
ment concerning the small plates, upon which these
things are engraven. And he gave me, Jacob, a com­
mandment that I should write upon these plates, a few
of the things which 1 considered to be most precious:
that I should not touch, save it were lightly, concern­
ing the history of this people which are called the peo­
ple of Nephi. For he said that the history of his peo-
fie should be engraven upon his other plates, and that
should preserve these plates, and hand them down
132 BOOK OF JACOB.
* ^
unto my seed, from generation to generation. And if
there were preaching which was sacred, or revelation
which was great, or prophesying, that 1 should engra­
ven the heads of them upon these plates, and touch
upon them as much as it were possible, for Christ’s
sake, and for the sake of our people: for because of
faith and great anxiety, it truly had been made mani­
fest unto us concerning ourpeople, what things should
happen unto them. And we also had many revela­
tions, and the spirit of much prophecy; wherefore, we
knew' of Christ and his kingdom, which should come.
Wherefore, we labored diligently among our people,
that we might persuade them to come unto Christ,
and partake of the goodness of God, that they might
enter into his rest, lest by any means he should swear
in his wrath they should not enter in, as in the provo­
cation in the days oftemptation, while the children of
Israel were in the wilderness. Wherefore, we would
to God that we could persuade all men not to rebel
against God, to provoke him to anger, but that all
men would believe in Christ, and view his death, and
suffer his cross and bear the shame of the world;
wherefore, I, Jacob, take it upon me to fulfil the com­
mandment of my brother Nephi.
Now Nephi began to be old, and he saw that he
must soon die; wherefore, he annointed a man to be a
king and a ruler over bis people now, according to the
reigns of the kings. The people having loved Nephi
exceedingly, he having been a great protector for them,
having wielded the.sword of Laban in their defence,
and having labored in all his days for their welfare;
wherefore, the people were desirous to retain in re­
membrance his name. And whoso should reign in his
stead, were called by the people, second Nephi,'third
Nephi, &c. according to the reigns of the kings; and
thus they were called by the people, let them be of
whatever name they would.
And it came to pass that Nephi died. Now the peo­
ple which were not Lamanites, were Nephites; never­
theless, they were called Nephites, Jacobites, Joseph­
ines, Zorainites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmael-
ites. But I, Jacob, shall not hereafter distinguish j
them by these names, but I shall call them Lamanites
that seek-£to destroy the people of Nephi; and those
who are friendly to Nephi, I shall call Nephites’
, or the
people of Nephi, according to the reigns of the kings.
BOOK OF JACOB. 133
And now it came to pass that the people of Nephi,
under the reign of the second king, began to grow
hard in their hearts, and indulge themselves somewhat
in wicked practices, such as like unto David of old,
desiring many wives and concubines, and also Solo­
mon, his son: yea, and they also began to search
much gold and silver, and began to he lifted up some­
what in pride; wherefore, I, Jacob, gave unto them
these words as I taught them in the temple, having
firstly obtained mine errand from the Lord. For 1,
Jacob, and my brother Joseph, had been consecrated
priests, and teachers of this people, by the hand of
Nephi. And we did magnify our office unto the Lord,
taking upon us the responsibility, answering the sins
of the people upon our own heads, if vve did not teach
them the word of God with all diiligence; wherefore,
by laboring with our mights, their blood might not
come upon our garments; otherwise, their blood would
come upon our garments, and we would not be found
spotless at the last day.
CHAPTER II.
Thf, words which Jacob, the brother of Nephi, spake
unto the people of Nephi, after tiie death of Nephi: —
Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the
responsibility which I am under to God, to magnify
mine office with soberness, and that I might rid my
garments of your sins, I come up into the temple this
day, that I might declare unto you tiie word of God;
and ye yourselves know, that I have hitherto been
diligent m the office of my calling; but I this day am
weighed down with mu<?h more desire and anxiety for
the welfare ofyour souls, than I have hitherto been.—
For behold, as yet, ye have been obedient unto the
word of the Lord, which I have given unto you. But
behold, hearken ye unto me, and know that by the
help of the all-powerful Creator of heaven and earth,
I can tell you concerning your thoughts, how that ye
arc beginning to labor in sin, which sin appe&reth ve­
ry abominable unto me, yea, and abominable unto
God. Yea, it grieveth my soul and causetb me to
shrink with shame before thepresence ofmy Maker,that
I might testify unto you concerning the wickedness of
your hearts; and also, it grieveth me that I must use
so much boldness of speech, concerning you, before
your wives and your children, many of whose feelings
are exceeding tender, and chaste, and delicate before
God, which thing is pleasing unto God; and it suppo­
sed me that they have come up hither to hear the
pleasing word of God, yea, the word which healeth
the wounded soul.
Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul, that I should be
constrained because of the strict commandment which
I have received from God, to admonish you, according
to your crimes, to enlarge the wounds of (hose which
are already wounded, instead of consoling and healing
their wounds; and those which have not been wound­
ed, instead of feasting upon the pleasing word of God,
have daggers placed to pierce their souls, and wound
their delicate minds. But, notwithstanding the great­
ness of the task, I must do according to the strict com­
mands of God, and tell you concerning your wicked­
ness and abominations, in the presence of the pure in
heart, and the broken heart, and under the glance of
the piercing eye of the Almighty-God.
Wherefore, I must tell you the truth, according to
tire plainness of the word of God. For behold, as I
enquired of the Lord, thus came the word unto me,
saying, Jacob, get thou up into the temple on the mor­
row, and declare the word whieh I shall give thee unto
this people.
And now behold, my brethren, this is the word
which 1 declare unto you, that many of you have be­
gun to searcli for gold^ and for silver, and all manner
of precious ores, in the which this land, which is a land
of promise unto you, and to your seed, doth abound
most plentifully. And the hand of providence hath
smiled upon you most pleasingly, that you have ob­
tained many riches; and because some of you have
obtained more abundantly than that of your brethren,
ye are lifted up in the pride of your hearts, and wear
stiff necks, and high heads, because of the costliness
of your a| parel, and persecute youf brethren, because
ye suppose that ye are better than they.
And now my brethren, do ye suppose that God jus-
tifieth you in this thing? Behold, I say unto you,
nay. But he condemneth you,4and if ye persist in
these things, his judgments must speedily come unto"
you. O that he would shew you that he can pierce
134 BOOK OP JACOB. *
*
>
1 3 5
BO
O
K or JACOB.
* /
>
you, and with one glance of his eye, he can smite you
to the dust. O that he would rid you from this ini*
qaity, and abomination. And, O that ye would listen
unto the word of his commands, and let not this pride
of your hearts destroy your souls. Think of your
brethren, like unlo yourselves, and be familiar with
all, and free with your substance, that they may be
rich like unto you. But bdorc ye seek for richeB,
seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have
obtained a hope in Christ, ye shall obtain riches, if ye
seek them; and ye will seek them, for the intent to
do good; to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry,
and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to
the sick, and the-afflicted.
And now my brethren, I have spoken unto you con­
cerning pride; and those of you which have afflicted
your neighbor, and persecuted him, because ye were
proud in your hearts, of the things which God hath
given you, wimt say ye of it? Bo ye not suppose that
such things are abominable unto him, who created all
flesh? And the one being is as precious in his sight
as tiie oilier. And all flesh is of the dust; and for the
self same end hath he created them, that they should
keep his commandments, and glorify him forever.—
And now I make an end of speaking unto you con­
cerning this pride. And were it not that I must speak
unto you concerning a grosser crime, my heart would
rejoice exceedingly, because of you. But the won! of
God burthens me because of your grosser crimes. For
behold, thus saitli the Lord, this people begin to wax
in iniquity; they understand not the scriptures: for
they seek to excuse themselves in committing whore­
doms, because of the things which were Written con­
cerning David, and Solomon his son. Behold, David
and Solomon truly had many wives and concubines,
which thing was abominable before me, saitli the Lord,
wherefore, thus saith the Lord, I have led this people
forth out of the land of Jerusalem, by the power of,
mine arm, that I might raise up unto me a righteous
branch from the fruit of the loins of Joseph, where­
fore, I, the Lord God, will not suffer that this people
shall do like unlo them of old. Wherefore, r.iy breth­
ren, hear me, and hearken to the word of the Lord:
for there shall not any man among you have save it be
one wife; and concubines he shall nave none: For I,
the Lord God, delighteth in the chastity of women-
And whoredoms are an abomination before me: thus
1 3 6 BOOK OF JACOB.
saith the Lord of hosts. ,■Wherefore, this people shall
keep my commandments, eaith the Lord of hosts, or
cursed be the land for their sakes. For if 1 will, saith
the Lord of hosts, raise np seed unto me, I will com­
mand my people: otherwise, they shall hearken unto
these things. For behold, I, the Lord, have seen the
sorrow, and heard the mourning of the daughters of
my people in the land of Jerusalem; yea, and in all
the lands of my people, because of the wickedness and
abominations of their husbands. And I will not suffer,
saith the Lord of hosts, that the cries of the fair daugh­
ters of this people, which I have led out of the land of
Jerusalem, shall come up unto me, against the men of
my people, saith the Lord of hosts; for they shall not
lead away captive, the daughters of my people, because
of their tenderness, save I shall visit them with a sore
curse, even unto destruction: for they shall not com­
mit whoredoms, like unto them of old, saith the Lord
ofhosts.
And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these
commandments were given to our father Lehi; where­
fore, ye have known them before; and ye have come
unto great condemnation; for ye have, done'-these
things, which ye ought not to have done. Behold, ye
have done greater iniquities than the Lamanites, bur
brethren. Ye have broken the hearts of your tender
wives, and lost the confidence ofyour children, because
of your bad examples before them; and the sobbings
of their hearts ascend up to God against you. ' And
because of the strictness of the word of God, which
cometh down against you, many hearts died, pierced
with deep wounds.
But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you thpt
are pure in heart. Look unto God with firmness of
mind, and pray unto him with exceeding faith, and he
will console you in your afflictions, and he will plead
your cause, and send down justice upon those who
seek your destruction.
O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads
and receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon
his love; for ye may, if your minds are firm, forever.
But wo, wo, unto you that are not pure in heart; that
are filthy this day before God; for except ye repent,
the land is cursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites,
which are not filthy like unto you, (nevertheless, they
axe cursed with a sore cursing) shall scourge you even
unto destruction. And the time speedily cometh,
BOOK OF JACOB. 157
that except ye repent, they shall possess the land of
your inheritance, and the Lord God will lead away
the righteous out from among you. Behold, the La-
mnnitep var.r brethren, whom ye Late, because of their
filthiness and the cursings which hath come ttpaft
their skins, are more righteous than you; for they
have not forgotten the commandment of the Lord,
which was given unto our fathers, that they should
have, save it were one wife; and concubines they
should have none; and there should not be whoredoms
committed among them. And now this command­
ment they observe to keep; wherefore, because of this
observance in keeping this commandment, the Lord
God will not destroy them, but will be merciful unto
them; and one day they shall become a blessed people.
Behold, their husbands love their wives, and their
wives love their husbands, and their husbands and
their wives love their children: and their unbelief and
their hatred towards you, is because of the iniquity of
their fathers; wherefore, how much better are you
than they, in the sight of your great Creator1
?
O my brethren, I feaiy tliatmttless ye shall repent of
your sins, that their skins will he whiter than yours,
when ye shall be brought with them before the throne
of God. Wheiefore, a commandment I give unto
you,-which is the word of God, that ye revile no more
against them, because of the darkness of their skins;'
neither shall ye revile against them because of their
filthiness; but ye shall remember your own filthiness,
and remember that their filthiness came because of
their fathers. Wherefore, ye shall remember your
children, how that ye have grieved their hearts because
of the example that yc have set before them: and also,
remember that ye fnay, because of your filthiness,
bring your children unto destruction, and their sins be
heaped upon your heads at the last day.
O my brethren, hearken unto my word; arouse the
faculties ef your soul: shake yourselves, that ye may
awake from the slumber of death; and loose yourselves
from the pains of hell, that ye may not become angels
to the devil, to be cast into that Jake of fire and brim*
stone, which is the second death. And now I, Jacob,
spake many more things unto the people of Nephi,
watuijug ttic«« loim vatiou, auii ;ttsiivnu>neMr,
*uul #v«ty kind »t *>u, tefiutg Hnuu Um
*awfai eou»e-
<|uetu*»of tk«VM aud a huudradth part of the proceed
#: "
133
4
BOOK OF JACO B.
ings of this people, which now began to be numerous,
cannot be written upon these plates; but many of their
proceedings are written upon the larger plates, and
their wars, aiid their contentions, and the reigns of
their kings. These plates are called the plates of Ja­
cob; arid they were made by the hand of iN'ephi. And
I make an end of speaking these words.
- CHAPTER III.
Now behold, it came to pass, that I, Jacob, having
ministered much unto my people, in word, (and I can­
not write but a little of my worths, because of the dii-
.ficulty of engraving our words upon plates,) and w
e
know that the tilings which we write upon plates,
must remain; but whatsoever tilings wc write upon
any thing save it be upon plates, must perish and van­
ish away; but we can write a few words upon plates,
which will give our children, and also our beloved
brethren, a smalt degree of knowledge concerning us,
or concerning their lathers. Now in this thing we do
rejoice; and we labor diligently to engraven these
words upon plates, hoping that our beloved brethren,
and our children, will receive them .with thankful
hearts, and loci; upon them, that they may learn with
joy, and not with sorrow, neither with contempt con­
cerning their first parents: for, for this intent have we
written these things, that they may know that we
knew ofChrist, and we had a hope of his glory, many I
hundred years before his coming, and not only we, 1
ourselves, had a hope of his glory, but also all the ho­
ly prophets which were before us.
Behold, they believed in Christ, and worshiped the
Father in his name; and also, we.worship the Father
in his name. Aud for this intent, we keep the law of
Moses, it pointing our souls to him; and for this cause,
it is sanctified unto us, for righteousness, even as it
was accounted unto Abraham in the wilderness, to be
obedient unto the commands of God, in offering up
his son Isaac, which is a similitude of God and his on­
ly begotten Son. Wherefore, wesearch'the prophets;
and wchave many revelations, and the spirit of proph­
ecy; and bavingall these witnesses, weobtain a hope,
BOOK OF JACOB. 139
and our faith becometh unshaken, insomuch that we
truly can command in the name of Jesus, and the ve­
ry trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves of
the sea; nevertheless, the Lord God ehewe'.h us our
weakness, that we may know that it is by his grace,
and his great condescensions unto the children of men,
that wc have power to do these things.
Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the
Lord. Jlow unsearchable are the depths of the mys­
teries of him;,and it is impossible that man should
find out all his ways. And no man knowelh of hie
ways, save it be revealed unto him; wherefore, breth­
ren, despise not the revelations of God. For behold,
by the power of his word, man came upon the face of
the earth; which earth was created by tbe power of
his word. Wherefore, if God, being aide to speak,
and the world was; and to speak, ami man was crea­
ted, O then, why not able to command the earth, or
the workmanship of his hands upon the face of it, ac­
cording to his will and pleasure. Wherefore, brethren,
seek not to counsel the Lord, but to lake counsel
from his hand. For behold, ye yourselves know, that
he counseleth iij wisdom, and in justice, and in great
mercy, over all his works; wherefore, beloved breth­
ren, be reconciled unto hjm, ihrough tiie atonement of
Christ, his only begotten Son, and ye may,, obtain a
resurrection, according to the power of the resurrec­
tion which is in Christ, and be presented as.the first
fruits of Christ, unto God, having faith, and obtained
a good hope of glory m him, before he manifesteth
himself in the flesh.
And now, beloved-; marvel not that I tell you these
things; for why not speak of the atonement of Christ,
and attain to a perfect knowledge of him, as to attain
to the knowledge of u resurrection and the world to
come? Behold, my brethren, lie that prophesieth, let
him‘prophesy to the understanding of men; for the
spirit speaketh the truth, and lieth not. Wherefore,
it speaketh of things as they really are, and of things
as they realjy will be; wherefore, these things are
manifested unto tis plainly,, for the salvation of our
souls., ,But behold, we are, not witnesses atone in
these tilings; for God also spake them unto prophets
of old.
But behold, the Jews were a stiffnecked -people;
and they despised the words of plainness, and killed
the prophets, and sought for things, that .they could,
140 BOOK OF JACOB.
not understand. Wherefore, because of their blind­
ness, which,blindness came by looking beyond the
mark, they must needs fall: for God 3
lath taken away
his plainness from them, and delivered unto them ma­
ny things which they cannot understand, because they
desired it. And because they desired it, God hath
done it, that they may stumble.
And now I, Jacob, arn -led on by the spirit unto
prophesying: for I perceive by the workings of the
spirit which is in me, that by the stumbling of the
Jews, they will reject the stone upon which they
might build, and have safe foundation. But behold,
according to the scriptures, this stone shall become
the great., and the last, and the only sure foundation,
upon which the Jews can build. And now, rny belov­
ed, how is it possible that these, after having rejected
the sure foundation, can ever build upon it, that it
may become the head of their corner? Behold, my
beloved brethren-, I will unfold this mystery, unto you;
if I do not, by any means, get shaken from my firm­
ness in the spirit, and stumble because of my over anx­
iety for you.
Behold, my brethren, do ye not remember to have
read the words of the prophet Zenos, which spake un­
to the house of Israel, saying; hearken O ye house of
Israel, and hear the words of me, a prophet of the
Lord: for behold, thus saith the Lord, I, will liken
thee O house of Israel, like unto a tame olive tree,
which a man took and nourished in his vineyard: and
it grew, and waxed old, and began to decay. And it
came to pass that the master of the vineyard went
forth, and he saw that his olive tree began to decay:
and he said, I will prune it, and dig about it, and
nourish it, that perhaps it may shoot forth young and
tender branches, and it perish not. And it came to
pass that he pruned it, and digged about it, and nour­
ished it, according to his'word. And it came to pass
that after many days, it began to put forth somewhat
a little, young and tender branches; but behold, the
main lop thereof began to perish. And it came to
pass that the master of tin; vineyard saw it, and he
said unto his servant, it grieveth tfie that I should lose
this tree; wherefore, go and pluck the branches from
a wild olive tree, and bring them hither unto me; and
we will pluck off those main branches which are be­
ginning to wither away, and we will cast them into
the fire, that they may be burned. ' And behold, saith
the Lord of the vineyard, I take away many of these
young and tender branches, and I will graft them
whithersoever 1 will; and it mattereth not that if it so
be, that the root of this tree will perish, I may pre­
serve the fruit thereof unto myself: wherefore, I will
take these young and tender branches, and I will graft
them whithersoever I wilt. Take thou the branches
of the wild olive tree, and graft them in, -in the stead
thereof; and these which 1 have plucked oil’
, I will
cast into the fire, and burn them, that they may not
cumber the ground of my vineyard.
And it caine to pass that the servant of the Lord of
the vineyard, did according to the word of the Lord of
the vineyard, and grafted in the branches of the wild
olive tree. And the Lord of the vineyard caused that
it should be digged about, and pruned, and nourished,
saying unto his servant, it grieveth me that I should
lose this tree; wherefore, that perhaps I might pre­
serve the roots thereof that they perish not, that I
might preserve them unto myself, I have done this
thing. Wherefore, go thy way; watch the tree, and
nourish it, according to my words. And these will I
place in the nethermost part of my vineyard, whither­
soever 1 will, it mattereth not unto thee; and 1 do it,
that I may preserve unto myself the natural branches
of the tree; and also, that I-may lay up fruit thereof,
against the season, unto myself: for it grieveth mo
that I should lose this tree, and the fruit thereof.
And it came to {Kiss that the Lord of the vineyard
went his way, artd hid the natural branches of the
tame olive tree in the nethermost parts of the vine­
yard; some in one, and some in another, according to ^
his will and pleasure. And it came to pass that a
long time passed away, and the Lord of the vineyard
said unto his servant, come, let us go down into the
vineyard, that we may labor in the vineyard. s
And it came to pass that .the Lord of the vineyard,
and also the servant, went down into the vineyard to
labor. And it came to pass that the iservant said unto
his master, behold, look here; behold the tree. And
it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard looked
and beheld the tree, in the which the wild olive branch­
es had been grafted; and it had sprang forth, and be­
gan to bear fruit. And he beheld that it was good;
and the fruit thereof was like unto the natural fruit.
And he said unto the servant, behold, the branches of
the wild tree hath taken hold of the moisture of the
BOOK OF JACOB. 1 4 1
142 BOOK OF JACOB.
root thereof, that the root thereof hath brought forth
much strength; and because of the much .strength of
the root thereof, the wild branches have brought forth
tame fruit: now, if we had not grafted in these branch­
es, the tree thereof would have perished. And now,,
behold, I shall lay up much fruit, which the tree
thereof hath brought forth; and the fruit thereof I
shall lay up, against the season, unto mine own self..
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
said unto the servant, come, let us go to the nether­
most part of the vineyard, and behold if the natural
branches of the tree,hath not brought forth much fruit
also, that I may lay up of the fruit thereof, against
the season, unto mine own, self. And it came to pass
that they went forth whither the master had hid the
natural branches of the tree, and he said unto the serv­
ant, behold these: and he beheld the first, that ii had
brought forth much fruit; and he beheld also, that it
was good. And he said unto the servant, lake of the
fruit thereof, and lay it up, against the season, that I
may preserve it' unto mine, own self: for behold, said
he, this long time hav,e I nourished it, and it hath
brought forth much fruit.
And it came to’pass that the servant said unto his
master, how comest thou hither to plant this tree, or
this branch of the tree? for behold, it was the poorest
spot in all the land of thy vineyard. And the Lord of
the vineyard said unto him, counsel me not: I knew
that it was a poor spot of ground; wherefore, I said
unto thee, I have nourished it this longtime; and thou
beholdest that it hath brought forth much fruit.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
said unto his servant, look hither: behold, I have
planted another branch of the tree also; and thou
knowest that this spot of ground was poorer than the
first. But, behold the tree: I have nourished it this
long tune, atid it hath broughtforfh.much fruit; there­
fore, gather it, and lay it up, against the season, that
I may preserve it unto.niine own self. •
,
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
said again unto his servant, look hither, and behold
another branch also, which I have planted: behold
that I have nourished it also, and it hath brought forth
fruit. And he said unto the servant, look hither, and
behold the last: behold, this have I planted in a good
spot of ground; and I have nourished it this long
time, and only a part of the tree, bath broughtforth
BOOK OF JACOB. 143
«
tame fruit; and the other part of the tree hath brought
forth wild fruit: behold, I have nourished this tree
like unto the others. »
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
said unto the servant, pluck oil'the branches that have
not brought forth good fruit, and cast them into the
fire. But behold, the .servant said unto Jinn, let us
prune it, and dig about it, and nourish it a little long­
er, that perhaps it may bring forth good fruit unto
thee, that thou eanst lay it up against the season.—
And it came to .pass that the Lord of the vineyard,
and the servant of the Lord of the vineyard, did nour­
ish all the fruit oft he vineyard.
And it came to pass that a long lime had passed
away, and the Lord of the vineyard said unto his serv­
ant, come, let us go down into the vineyard, that we
may labor again in the vineyard. For behold, the
time drawetu near, and the end soon cometh: where­
fore, I must lay up fruit, against the season, unto
mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lard of the vineyard,
and the servant, went down into the vineyard; and
they came to the tree whose natural branches had been
broken oiT, and the wild branches had been grafted in;
and behold, nil sorts of fruit did cumber the tree.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
did taste yf the fruit, every sort according to its num­
ber. And the Lord of the vineyard said, behold, this
long time have we nourished this tree, and I have
laid up unto inyeslf against the season, much fruit.
But behold, this time it hath brought forth much fruit, ,<sf
and there is none of it which is good. And behold, -r
there are all kinds of bad fruit; and iLprofiteth me no­
thing, notwithstanding all our labor: and now, it
grieveth me that 1 should lose this tree. And the
Lord of the vineyard said unto, the servant, what shall
we do unto the tree, that I may preserve again good
fruit thereof unto mine own s«lfl And the servant
said unto his master, behold, because thou didst graft
in the branches of the wild olive tree, they have nour­
ished the roots, that they are alive, and th,ey have not
perished; wjterefore, thou beholdest that they are yet
.good, i j.
Aud it came to pass that the Lord of .the vineyard
said unto his servant, the tree profiteth me nothing;' |
and the roots thereof profiteth me nothing, so long as L
it shall bring forth, evil fruit. Nevertheless, I know
144 BOOK OF JACOB.
that the roots are good; and for mine own purpose I
have preserved them; and because of their much
strength, they have hitherto brought forth from the
wild branches, good frnit. But behold, the wild
branches have grown, and have overran the roots
thereof; and because that the wild branches have over­
come the roots thereof, it hath brought forth much
evil fruit; and because that it hath brought forth so
much evil fruit, thou beholdest that it bcginneth to per­
ish: and it will soon become ripened, that it may be
cast into the fire, except we should do something for
it to preserve it.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
said unto his servant, let us go down into' the nether­
most parts of the vineyard, and behold if the natural
branches have also brought forth evil fruit. And it
came to pass that they went down into the nether­
most parts of the vineyard. And it came to pass that
they beheld that the fruit of the natural branches had
become corrupt also; yea, the first, and the second,
and also the last; and they had all become corrupt.
And the wild fruit of the last, bad overcome that part
of the tree which brought forth good fruit, even that
the branch had withered away and died.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
wept, and said unto the servant, what could I have
done more for my vineyard ? Behold, I knew that all
the fruit of the vineyard, save it were these, had be­
come corrupted. And now, these which have once
brought forth good fruit, have also become corrupted.
And now, all the trees of my vineyard are good for
nothing, save it be to be hewn down and cast into the
fire. And behold, this last, whose branch hath with­
ered away, 1 did plant in a good spot of grounds yea,
even that which Was choice unto me, above all other
parts of the land of my vineyard. And thou beheld-
est that I also cut down that which cumbered this
spot of ground, that 1 might plant this tree in the
stead thereof. And thou beheldest that a part there­
of, brought forth good fruit: and a part thereof,
brought forth wild fruit.' And because I plucked
not the branches thereof, and cast them into the fire,
behold, they have overcome the good branch, that it
has withered away. And now behold, notwithstand­
ing all the care which we have taken of my vineyard,
the trees thereof have become corrupted, that they
bring forth no good fruit: and these I had hoped to
BOOK OF- JACOB. 145
preserve, to have laid up fruit thereof, against the sea­
son, unto mine own self But behold, they have be­
come like untothe’wiid olive tree; and they are of no
worth, but to be hewn down and cast into the fire:
and it grieveth me that I should lose them. But what
could i have done more in my vineyard? Have I
slackened mine hand, that I have not nourished it?
Nay; I have nourished it, and I have digged about it,
and I have pruned it, and I have dunged it; and I
have stretched lortli mine hand almost all the* day
long; and the end draweth nigh. And it grieveth me
that I should hew down all the trees of my vineyard,
and cast them into the lire,' that they should be burn­
ed. Who is it that lias corrupted my vineyard?
And it came to pass that the servant, stud unto his
master, is it not the loftiness of thy vineyard! Has
not the branches thereof overcome the roots, which
are good? And because the branches have overcome
the roots thereof, behold, they grew faster than the
strength ol Lite roots taking strength unto themselves.
Behold, I say, is not this the cause that the trees of
thy vineyard have become corrupted?
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard
said unto the servant, let us go to, and hew down the
trees of the vineyard, and cast them into tiie lire, that
they shall not cumber tbe ground of my vineyard; for
I have done all; what could I have done more for my
vineyard? But behold, the servant said unto the Lord
of the vineyard, spare it a little longer. And the
Lord said, yea, I will spare it a little longer; for it
grieveth me that I should lose the trees ot my vine­
yard. Wherefore let us take of the branches of these
which I have planted in the nethermost parts of ray
vineyaid, and let us graft them into the tree from
whence they came; and let us pluck from the tree
those branches whose fruit is most bitter, and graft in
the natural branches of the tree in the stead thereof.
And this will 1 do, that the tree may not perish, that
perhaps 1 may preserve unto myself the roots thereof
for mine own purpose. And behold, the roots of the
natural branches of the tree which 1 planted whither­
soever I would, are yet alive; wherefore, that I may
preserve them also, for mine own purpose, i will take
of the branches of this tree, and 1 will graft them in
unto them. Yea, I will graft in unto them the
branches of their mother tree, that I may preserve the
. ayes » ir>;1 >jy Q .!!•->! t '?'■
! *<;
146 BOOS OP JACOB.
roots also unto mine own self, that when they shall
be sufficiently strong, perhaps they may bring forth
good fruit unto me, and 1 may yet have glory in the
fruit of my vineyard.
And it came to pass that they took from the natural
tree which had become wild, and grafted in unto the
natural trees, which also had become wild; and they
also took of the natural trees which had become wild,
and grafted into their mother tree. And the Lord of
the vineyard said unto the servant, pluck not the
wild branches from the trees, save it be those which
arc most biller; and in them ye shall graft, according
to that which 1 have said. And we will nourish
again the trees of the vineyard, and we will trim up
the brandies thereof; and we will pluck from the trees
those branches which are ripened, that must perish,
aud east them into the fire. And this I do, that per­
haps the roots thereof may take strength, because of
their goodness; aud because of the change of the
branches, that the good may overcome the evil; and
because that I have preserved the natural branches,
.and the roots thereof; and that I have grafted in the
natural branches again, into their mother tree; and
have preserved the roots of their mother tree, that per­
haps the trees of my vineyard may bring forth again
good fruit; and that I may have joy again in the fruit
ofmy vineyard; and perhaps that 1 may rejoice ex­
ceedingly, that I have preserved the roots and the
branches of the first fruit. Wherefore, go to, and
call servants, that we may labor diligently with our
mights in the vineyard, that we may prepare the way,
that I may bring forth again the natural fruit, which
natural fruit is good, and the most precious above all
other fruit. Wherefore, let us go to, and labor with
our mights, this last time: for behold the end draweth
nigh; and this is for the last time that I shall prune
my vineyard. Graft in the branches; begin at the
last, that they may be first, and that the first may be
last, and dig about the trees, both old and young, the
first and the last, and the last and, the first, that all
may be nourished once again for the last time.—
Wherefore, dig about them, and prune them, and
dung them once more, for the last time: for the end
draweth nigh. And if it so be that these last grafts
shall grow, and bring forth the natural fruit, then
shall ye prepare the way for them,. that they may
grow; and as they begin to grow, ye shall clear away
BOOK OF JACOB. 147
*
!
■
the branches which bring forth bitter fruit, according
to the strength of the good and the size thereof; ana
ye shall not clear away the bad thereof, all at once,
lest the roots thereof should be too strong for the
graft, and the graft thereof shall perish, and 1 lose the
trees of my vineyard. For it grieveth me that I
should lose the trees of my vineyard: wherefore, ye
shall clear away the bad, according as the good shall
grow, that the root and the top may he equal in
strength, until the good shall overcome the bad, and
the bad be hewn down and cast into the fire, that they
cumber not the ground of my vineyard; and thus will
I sweep away the bird out of my vineyard. And the
branches of the natural tree, will I graft in again, into
the natural tree; and the branches of the natural tree,
will I graft into the natural branches of the tree; and
thus will I bring them together again, that they shall
bring forth the natural fruit: and they shall be one.
And the bad shall be castaway; yea, even out of all
the land of my vineyard: for behold, only this once
will 1 prune my vineyard.
And it came to pasB that the Lord of the vineyard
sent his servant; and the servant went and did as the
Lord had commanded him, and brought other serv­
ants; and they were few. And the Lord of the vine­
yard said unto them, go to, and labor in the vineyard,
with your mights. For behold, this is the last time
that l shall nourish my vineyard: for the end is nigh
at hand, and the season speedily eoineth; and if ye la­
bor with your mights with me, ye shall have joy in
the fruit which 1 shall lay up unto myself, against the
time which will soon come.
And it came to pass that the servants did go, and
labor with their mights; and the Lord of the vineyard
labored also with them: and they did obey the com­
mandments of the Lord of the vineyard, in all things.
And there began to' be the natural fruit again in the
vineyard; and the natural brandies began to grow
and thrive exceedingly; and the wild branches began
to be plucked off, and to be cast away; and they did
keep the root and the top’thereof, equal, according to
the strength thereof. And thus they labored, with all
diligence, according to the ‘commandments of the
Lord of-the vineyard, even until the bad had been
cast away out of the vineyard, and the Lord had pre­
served unto himself, that the trees had become again
the natural fruit; and they becamelike unto one body;
148 BOOK OF-iJACOB.;
bd4 the fruit were equal; and the Lord of the Tine-
yard had preserved unto himself the natural fruit,
which was most precious unto him from the begin-
ning.
And it came to pass that when the Lord of the vine­
yard saw that his fruit was good, and that his vine­
yard was no more corrupt, he called up his servants
and said unto them, behold, for this last time have we
nourished my vineyard; and thou beholdosl that I
have done according to my will; and 1 have preserved
the natural fruit, that it is good, even like as it was
in the beginning; and blessed art thou. For because
ye have been diligent in laboring with me in my vine­
yard, and have kept my commandments, and have
brought unto me again the natural fruit, that my vine­
yard is no more corrupted, and the bud is cast away,
behold, ye shall have joy with me, because of the fiuit
of my vineyard. For behold, for a long lime will I
lay up of the fruit of my vineyard unto mine own self,
against the season, which speedily comelh; and for
the last time have I nourished my vineyard, and
pruned it, and dug about it, and dunged it; wherefore
I will lay up unto mine own self of the fruit, fora
long time, according to.that which 1 have spoken.—
And when the time eometh that evil fruit shall again
come into my vineyard, then will 1 cause the good
and the bad to be gathered; and the good will I pre­
serve unto myself; and the bad will 1 cast away into
its own place. And then comelh the season and the
end; and my viueyard will I cause to be burned with
fire.
■ * > CHAPTER IV.
Asd now, behold, my hrethren, as I said unto yoo
that I would prophesy, behold, this is my prophesy:
That the things which this prophet Zenos spake, con­
cerning the house of Israel, in the which he likened
them unto a tame olive tree; roust surely come to
pass. And in the day that he shall set his hand again
the second time to recover his people, is the day, yea,
even the last time, that the servants of the Lord shall
go forth in his power, to nourish and prune his vine-
BOO I OP JACOB. 1 4 9
p
aid; and after that, the end soon comelh. And liow
leased are the/ who have labored diligently in hie
vineyard; and how curved are they who shall be c u t
out into tiieir ovrn place! And the world sJudl be
burned with lire. And how merciful is our God unto
us: for he remeinbereth the house of Isruel, both roots
and branches; and he suetches forth his hands unto
them, all the day long: and they are a stiffnecked,
and a gainsaying people: but as many as will not
harden their hearts, shall be saved in the kingdom of
God. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, 1 beseech of
you in words of soberness, that ye would repent, and
comewith lull purpose of heart, and cleave unto God
as he clcaveth unto you. And while his arm of mercy
is extended towards you in the -light of the'day, hard­
en not your hearts. .Yea, to-day if ye will hear his
voice, harden not your hearts: for why will ye die! For
behold, after ye have been nourished by the good word
of God all the day long, will ye bring forth evil fruit,
that ye must be hewn down and cast into the fire?
Behold, will ye reject these words? Will ye reject
the words of the prophets? and will ye reject all the
words which have been spoken concerning Christ, af­
ter so many have spoken concerning him? and deny
the good word of Christ, and the power, of God, and
the gift of the Holy Ghost, and quench the Holy
Spirit? and make a mock of the great plan of redemp­
tion, which hath been laid for you? Know ye not
that ifye will do these tilings, that the power of the
redemption and the resurrection which is in Christ,
will bring you to stand with shame and awful guilt be­
fore the bar of God? And according to the power of
justice, for justice cannot be denied, ye must go away
into that lake of fire and brimstone, whose flames are
unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth np forever
and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone, is endless
torment. O then, my beloved brethren, repent ye,
and'enter in at the straight gate, and continue in the
way which is narrow, until ye shall obtain eternal life.
O ba wise: what can I say more? Finally, I bid you
larewell, until I shall meet you before the pleasing bar
of God, which bar slrikcth the wicked with awful
dread and fear. Amen. .
1 . * -, .
’ * V r : . I ■’ : • ■ : -■ 1 w; ■' *;■ ■
■vn.i - , ;. -I
’ . • «
■
- " 'V f.*>. .*
r i i v <
■ ■
■
■
:■ i » sr * ; , v i* '.:p
,i 0
-t S
*V
*
-
,. *
v"
150 BOOK OF JACOB.
CHAPTER V.
Asd now it came to pass after some years had pass­
ed away, there came a man among the people of Ne-
plu, whose name was Sherem. And it came to pas*
that he began to preach among the people, and to de­
clare unto them that there should be no Christ. And
he preached many things which were flattering unto
the people; and this he did that he might overthrow
the doctrine of Christ And he labored diligently
that lie might lead away the hearts of the people, in­
somuch that he did lead away many hearts; and he
knowing that I, Jacob, had faith'in Christ who should
come, he sought much opportunity that he might
come unto me. And he was learned, that he had a
perfect knowledge of the language of the people;
wherefore, he could use much flattery, and much pow­
er of speech, according to the power of the devil. And
he had hope to shake me from the faith, notwithstand­
ing the many revelations, and the many things which
I had seen concerning these things: for I truly had
seen angels, and they had ministered unto me. And
also, I had beard the voice of the Lord spreaking unto
me in very word, from time to time; wherefore, I
could not be shaken.
And it came to pass that he came unto me; and on
this wrise did he speak unto me, saying: Brother Ja­
cob, I have sought much opportunity that I might
speak unto you: for I have heard and also know* that
thou goest about much, preaching that which ye call
the gospel, or the doctrine of Christ; and ye have led
away much of this people, that they pervert the right
way of God, and keep not the law of Moses, which is
the right way; and convert the law of Moses into the
worship of a being, which ye say shall come many
hundred years hence. And now behold, I, Sherem,
declare unto you, that this is blasphemy; for no man
knoweth of such things: for he cannot tell of things
to come. And after this manner did Sherem contend
against me. But behold, the Lord God poured in his
spirit into my soul, insomuch that I did confound him
in all his words. And I said unto him, denies! thou
the Christ who should come? And he said, if there
should be a Christ, I would not deny him; but I know
that there is no Christ, neither has been, nor ever will
be. And I said unto him, believest thou the Scrip­
tures! And he said, yea. And I said unto him, then
BOOK OF JACOB. 151
ye do not understand them; for they truly testify of
Christ. Behold, I say unto you, that none of the
prophets have written, nor prophesied, save they
have spoken concerning this Christ. ,-vArid this is not
all: it has been made manifest unto me, for I have
heard and seen; and it also has been made manifest
unto me by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore*
I know if there should be no atonement made all man­
kind must be lost.
And it came to pass that he said unto me, shew me
a sign by this power of the Holy;Ghost,in the which
ye know so much. And I said unto him, what am I,
that I should tempt God to shew unto thee a sign, in
the thing which thou knowest to be Irue'i - Yet thou
wilt deny it, because thou art of the devil. Never­
theless, not my will be done; but if God, shall smite
thee, let that be a sign unto thee that he has power,
both in heaven and in earih; and also, that Christ
shall come. And thy will, O Lord, be done, and not
mine,
And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spok­
en these words, the power of the Lord came upon
him, insomuch that he fell to the earth. And it came
to pass that he was nourished for the space of many
days. And it came to pass that he said unto the peo­
ple, gather together on the morrow, for 1 shall die;
wherefore, I desire to speak unto the people before I
shall die.
And it came to pass that on the morfow, the multi-
tude were gathered together; and he spake plainly un­
to them, and denied the things which he had taught
them; and confessed the Christ, and the power of the
Holy Ghost, and the ministering of angels. And he
spake plainly unto them, that he had been deceived
by the power of the devil. And he spake of hell, and
of eternity, and of eternal punishment. And he said,
I fear lest I have committed the unpardonable sin, for
I have lied unto God: fori denied the Christ, and
said that I believed the scriptures; and they truly tes­
tify of him. And because I have thus lied unto God,
I greatly fear lest my case shall be awful; but I con­
fess unto God.
And it came to pass that when he had said these
words, he could say no more: and he gave up the
fhost. And when the multitude had witnessed that
e spake these things as he^was about to give up the
ghost, they were astonished exceedingly; insomuch,
*
that the power of God came down upon them,^and
they were overcome, that they fell to the earth. Now,
this tiling was pleasing unto me, Jacob; for I had to
.
quested it of my Father who was in'heaven: for he
had heard my cry, and answered my prayer.
And it came to pass that peace and the love of God,
was restored again among the people; - and they
searched the scriptures, and hearkened no more to the
words of this wicked man. And it came to pass that
many moans were devised, to reclaim and restore the
Lamanites, to the knowledge of the truth; but it all
were vain: for they delighted in wars and bloodsheds;
and they iiad an eternal hatred against us, their breth­
ren. And-they sought by tbe power of their arms to
destroy us continually; wherefore, the people of Ne-
phi diii fortify against them with their armies, and
with all their might, trusting in the God and rock of
their salvation; wherefore, they became as yet, con­
querors of their enemies.
And it came to pass that I, Jacob, began to be old;
and the record of this people being kept on the other
plates of Nephi, wherefore, 1conclude this record, de­
claring that I have written according to the best of
my knowledge, by saying, that the time passed away
with us, and also our lives passed away, like as it
were unto us a dream, we being a lonesome and a
solemn people, wanderers, east out from Jerusalem;
born in tribulation, in a wilderness, and hated of our
brethren, which caused wars and contentions; where­
fore, we did mourn out our days.
And I, Jacob, saw that I must soon go down to my
grave; wherefore, I said unto my son Enos, take these
plates. And I told him the things which my brother
Nephi had commanded me; and he promised obedi­
ence unto the commands. And I make an end ofmy
writing upon these plates, which writing has been
small; and to the reader I bid farewell, hoping that
many of my brethren may read my words. Brethren,
adieu. ■
' " *
*
152 book or jacob.
•&J
'>
i fH r
. 1 • t * r l *
* r f i j f o j '**"
. $ =U **•> -? ■ * t.-si
M q s ' W
o t a
t ■
r
.<o' * 1 ^ " i I
'f’i .
THE BOOK OP ENOS.
CHAPTER I .'
Behold, it came to pas? that I, Enos, knowing my
father, that he was a just man: for he taught me in
hie language, and also in the nurture and admonition
ofthe Lord. And blessed be the name of my-God for
it. And i will tell you of the wrestle which I had be­
fore God, before I received a remission of my sins: be­
hold, I went to hunt beasts in the forest; and the
words which I had often heard my father speak, con­
cerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk
deep into my heart. And my soul hungered: and I
kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him
in mighty prayer and supplication, for mine own soul;
and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and
when the night carte, I did still raise my voice high,
that it reached the heavens. And there came a voice
unto me saying, Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and
thou shall be blessed. And 1, Enos knew that God
could not lie; wherefore, my guilt was swept away.—
And 1 said, Lord, how is it done! And he said unto
ine, because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast
never before heard nor seen. And many years pass
away, before he shall manifest himself in the flesh;
wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole.
Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these
words, I began to feel a desire for. the welfare of my
brethren, the Nephites; wherefore, 1 did pour out my
whole soul unto God for them. And while I was thus
struggling in the spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord
came into my mind again, saying, I’ will visit thy
brethren, according to their diligence in keeping n®f
commandments. I have given unto them this land;
and it is a holy land; and I curse it not, save it be for
the cause of iniquity; wherefore, I will visit thy breth­
ren, accordinga$ I have said; and their transgressions
will I bring down with sorrow upon their own heads.
And after I, Enos, had heard these words, my faith
began to be unshaken in the Lord; and I prayed unto
him with many long stragglings for my brethren, tho
Lamanites.
$
154 BOOK OX INOS.
And it came to pass, that after I had prayed, and
labored with all diligence, the Lord said unto me, I
will grant unto thee according to thy desires, because
of thy faith. And now behold, this was the desire
which I desired of him: That if it should so be, that
my people, the Nephites, should fall into transgres­
sion, and by any means be destroyed, and the Laman­
ites should not be destroyed, that the Lord God would
preserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if
it so be, by the power of his holy arm, that it might
be brought forth, at-some future day, unto the Laman-
ites, that perhaps they might be brought unto salva­
tion: for at the present^"our smugglings were vain, in
restoring them to the true faith. And they swore in
their wrath, that if it were possible, they would des­
troy our records and us; and, also, all the traditions
of our fathers.
Wherefore, I knowing that the Lord God was able
to preserve our records, I cried unto him continually;
for ho had said unto me, whatsoever thing ye shall ask
in faith, believing that ye shall receive in the name of
Christ, ye shall receive it. Ami I had faith, and I did
cry unto God, that he would preserve the records; and
he covenanted with me that he would bring them forth
unto the Lamanites, in his own due time. And I,
Enos, knew it would be according to the covenant
which he had made; wherefore, my soul did rest—
And the Lord said unto me, thy fathers have also re­
quired of me this thing; and it shall be done unto
them according to their faith, for their faith was like
unto thine.
And now it came to pass, that I, Enos, went about
among the people of Nephi, prophesying of things to
come, and testifying of the things which I had heard
and seen. And I bear record that the people of Nephi
did seek diligently to restore the Lamanites unto the
true faith in God. But our labors were vain; their
hatred was fixed, and they were led by their evil na­
ture, that they became wild, and ferocious, and a blood*
thirsty people; full of idolatry, and filthiness; feeding
upon beasts of prey, dwelling in tents, and wandering
about in the wilderness, with a short skin girdle about
their loins, and their heads shaven: and their skill was
in ;the how, and in the cymetcr, and the axe. And
many of them did eat nothing save it was raw meat;
and they weremontinually seeking to destroy us.
BOOK OK JAROM. 155
And it came to pass that the people of Nephi did till
the land, and raise all manner of grain, and of fruit,
and flocks of herds, and flocks of all manner of cattle,’
of every kind, and goats, and wild goats, and also ma­
ny horses. And there were exceeding many prophets
among us. And the people were a stiff-necked people,
hard to understand. And there was nothing save it
was exceeding harshness, preaching and prophesying
of wars, and contentions, and destructions, and con­
tinually reminding them of death, and the duration of
eternity, and the judgments and the power of God;
and all these things stirring them up continually, to
keep them in the fear of the Lord. I say there‘was
nothing short of these things, and exceeding great
plainness of speech, would keep them from going down
speedily to destruction. And after this manner do I
write concerning them. And I saw wars between the
Nephites and Lanianites, in the course of my days.
And it came to pass that I began to be old, and an
hundred and seventy and nine years had passed away
from the time that our father Lehi left Jerusalem.—
And as I saw that I must soon go down to my grave,
having been wrought upon by the power of God that
1 must preach and prophesy unto this people, and de­
clare the word according to the truth which is in
Christ. And I have declared it, in all my days, and
have rejoiced in it, above that of the world. And I
soon go to the place of my rest, which is with my Re­
deemer; for I know that in him I shall rest: and I re­
joice in the day when my mortal shall put on immor­
tality, and shall stand before him: then shall I see his
face with pleasure, and he will say unto me, come unto
me ye blessed, there is a place prepared for you in the
mansions of my Fa-
then. Amen.
THE BOOK OF JAROM.
t ,
’ CHAPTER I.
i '
Now behold; I Jarom, write a few words, according
to the commandment of my father Enos, that our gen­
ealogy may -be kept. And os these plates are small,
and as these things are written for the intent of the
156 BOOK OP JAROMt
benefit of our brethren, the Lamanites, wherefore, it
must needs be that I write a little; but I shall not
write the things of my prophesying, hor of my revela­
tions. For what could 1 write more than my fathers
hare written? For have not they revealed the plan of
salvation? I say unto you, yea; and this aufficeth
me.
Behold, it is expedient that much should be done
among this people, because of the hardness of their
hearts, and the deafness of their ears, and the blind­
ness of their minds, and the stillness of their necks;
nevertheless, God is exceeding merciful unto them,
and has not as yet swept them oft'from the face of the
land. And there are many among us who have many
revelations: for they are not all stiffnecked, And as
many as are not stiffnecked, and have faith, have com­
munion with the Holy Spirit, which maketh manifest
unto the children of men, according to their faith.
And now, behold, two hundred years had passed
away, and the people of Nephi had waxed strong in
the land. They observed to keep the law of Moses,
and the Sabbath day holy unto the Lord. And they
profaned not; neither did they blaspheme. And the
laws of the land were exceeding strict. And they
were scattered upon much of the lime of the land; and
the Lamanites also. And they were exceeding moi#
numerous than were they of the Nephites; and they
loved murder, and would drink the blood of beasts.
And it came to pass tiiat they came .many times
against us, the Nephites, to battle. But our kings
and our leaders were mighty men in the faith of tho
Lord: and they taught the people the ways of the
Lord; wherefore, we withstood the Lamanites, and
swept them away out of our lands, and began to forti­
fy our cities, or whatsoever place of our inheritance.—
And we multiplied exceedingly, and spread upon the
face of the land, and became exceeding r.ich in gold,
and in silver, and in precious tilings, and in fine work­
manship of wood, in buildings, and in machinery, and
also in iron, and copper, and brass, and steel, making
all manner of tools of every kind to till the ground,
and weapons of war; yea, the sharp pointed arrow,
and the quiver, and the dart, and the javelin, and all
preparations for war; and thus being prepared to meet
the Lamanites, they did not prosper against us. But
the word of the Lord was verified, which he spake up;
BOOK o r OMKl. 157;
to our fathers, saying, That inasmuch as ye will keep
my commandments, ye shall prosper in the land. -^ ^
And it came to pass that the prophets of the Lord
did threaten the people of Nephi, according to the
word of God, that if they did not keep the command-*
ments, but should fail into transgression, they should
be destroyed from off the face of the land; where;ore,
the prophets, and the priests, and the teachers, did la­
bor diligently, exhorting with all long suffering, the “'
people to diligence; teaching the law of Moses, and
the intent for which it was given; persuading them to
look forward unto the Messiah, and believe in him to
come, as though lie already was. And altef this man­
ner did they teach them. And it came to pass that by j
so doing, they kepi them from being destroyed upon
the face of the land: for they did prick their hearts
with the word, continually stirring them up unto re­
pentance.
And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty
and eight years had passed away, after the manner of
wars, and contentions, and dissensions, for the space
of much of the time. And I, Jaroin, do not write
more, for the plates are small. But behold, my breth­
ren, ye can go to the other plates of Nephi: for behold,
upon them the record of our wars are engraven, accor­
ding to the writings of the kings, or those which they
caused to he written. And I deliver these plates into
the hands of my son Omni, that they may be .kept ac­
cording to the commandments of my fathers.
THE BOOK OF OMNI.
CHAPTER I.
Behold, it came to pass that I, Omni, being com­
manded by my father Jaroin', that I should write some­
what upon these plates, to preserve our genealogy;
wherefore, in my days, I would that ye should know
that. I fought much with the sword, to preserve my
people, the Nephites, from falling into the hands of
their enemies, the Lamanites. But behold, I, of my­
self, am a wicked man, and I have not. kept the slat*
153 BOOK OF O X 5I.
utes and the commandments of the Lord, as I ought
to have done. *
*
And it came to pass that two hundred and seventy
and six years had passed away, and we had many sea­
sons of peace; and we had many seasons of serious
war and bloodshed. Yea, and in fine, two hundred
and eighty and two years had passed away, and I had
kept these plates according to the commandments of
my fathers; and I conferred them upon my son Ama-
ron. And I make an end.
And now 1, Amaron, write the things whatsoever
I write, which are few, in the book of my father. Be­
hold, it came to pass that three hundred and twenty
years had passed away, and the more wicked part of
the Nephites were destroyed: for the Lord would not
suffer, after he had led them out of the land of Jerusa­
lem, and kept and preserved them from felling into
the hands of their enemies; yea, he would not sutler
that the words should not be verified, which he spake
unto our fathers, saying, that inasmuch as ye will not
keep my commandments, ye shall not prosper in the
land. Wherefore, the Lord did visit them in great
judgment; nevertheless, he did spare the righteous,
that they should not perish, but did deliver them out
of the hands of their enemies. And it came to pass
that I did deliver the plates unto my brother Chemish.
Now I, Chemish, write what few things I write, in
the same book with my brother: for behold, I saw the
last which he wrote, that he wrote it with his own
hand; and he wrote it in the day that he delivered
them unto me. And after this manner we keep the
records, for it is according- to the commandments of
our fathers. And I make an end.
Behold, I, Abinadom, am the son of Chemish. Be­
hold* it came to pass that I saw much war and con­
tention between my people, the Nephites, and the La-
manites; and I, with mine own sword, have taken the
lives of many of the Lara&nites, in the defence ofmy
brethren. And behold, the record ofthis people is en­
graven upon plates wlrich is had hy the kings, accord­
ing to the generations; and I know of no revelation,
save that which has been written, neither prophecy;
wherefore, that which is sufficient; it written. And I
make an end. *
Behold, 1 am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom. i Be­
hold, I will speak unto you somewhat concerning Mo­
riah, who was made king over the land of Zaraheinla:
f
t
BOOK OS' 0X 81. 1 5 9
for behold, he being warned of the Lord that he should
flee out of the land of Nephi, and as many as would
hearken unto the voice of the Lord, should also de­
part out of the land with him, into the wilderness.—
And it came to pass that he did according as the Lord
had commanded him. And they departed out of the
land into the wilderness, as many as would heaarken
unto the voice of the Lord; and they were led by ma­
ny preachings and prophesyings. And they were ad­
monished continually by the word of God; and they
were led by the power of his arm, through the wilder­
ness, until they came down into the land which is
called the land of Zarahemla. And they discovered a
people, who were called the people of Zarahemla.—
Now, there was great rejoicing among the people of
Zarahemla; and also, Zarahemla did rejoice exceed­
ingly, because the Lord had sent the people of Mosi-
ah with the plates of brass which contained the record
of the Jews.
Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that
the people of Zarahemla, came out from Jerusalem, at
the lime that Zedekiah, king of Judah, was carried
away captive into Babylon. And they journied in
the wilderness, and were brought by the hand of the
Lord, across the great waters, into the land where
Mosiah discovered them; and they had dwelt there
from that time forth. And.at the time that Mosiah
discovered them, they had become exceeding numer­
ous. Nevertheless, they had had many wars and se­
rious contentions, and had fallen by the sword from
time to time; and their language had become corrupt­
ed; and they had brought no records with them; and
they denied the being of their Creator; and Mosiah,
nor the people of Mosiah, could understand them.
But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that'they
should be taught in his language. And it came to
pass that after they were taught in the language of
Mosiah, Zarahemla gave a genealogy of his fathers,
according to his memory; and they are written, but
not in these plates.
And it came to pass that the people of Zarahemla,
and of Mosiah, did unite together; and Mosiah was
appointed to be their king. And it came to pass in
the days of Mosiah, there was a large stone brought
unto him, with engravings on it; and Be did interpret
the engravings, by the gift and power of God.,,
160 BOOK OF OJTNI.
And they gave an account of one Coriantumr, and
the slain of his people. And Coriantuinr was discov­
ered by the people of Zarahemla; and he dwelt with
them for the space of nine moons. It also spake a
few words concerning his fathers. And his first pa­
rents came out from the tower, at the time the Lord
confounded the language of the people; and-the sever­
ity of the Lord fell upon them, according to his judg­
ments, which are just; and llieir bones lay scattered
in the land northward.
Behold, I, Amaleki, was born in the days ofMosiah;
and I have lived to sec his death; and Benjamin, his
son, reigneth in his stead. And behold, I have seen
in the days of king Benjamin, a serious war, and much
bloodshed, between the Nephites and the Lamanites.
But behold, the Ncphilcs did obtain much advantage
over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did
drive them out of the land of Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that I began to be old; and,
having no seed, and knowing king Benjamin to be a
just man before the Lord, wherefore, 1 shall deliver
up these plates unto him, exhorting all men to coma
unto God, the Holy One oflsrael, and believe in proph­
esying, and in revelations, and in the ministering of
angds, and in the gift'of speaking with tongues, and
in the gift of interpreting languages, and in all things
wiiich are good; for there is nothing which is good,
save it comes from the Lord; and that which is evil,
cotnelh from the devil.
And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ve
should come unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Is­
rael, and partake of his salvation, and the power of
his redemption. Yea, come unto him, and offer your
whole souls as an offering unto him, and continue in
fasting an.Cpraying, and endure to the end; and as
the Lord liveth, ye will be saved.
And now, I would speak somewhat concerning a
certain number who went up into the wilderness, to
return to the land of Nephi: for there was a large
number who were desirous to possess the land of their
inheritance; wherefore, they went up into the wilder­
ness. And their leader being a strong and a mighty
tnan,rand a stiffnecked man, wherefore he caused a
contention among them; and they were all slain, save
fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned again to
the land of Zarahemla. 1 ' '
WORDS OP MOR M O N .
And it came to pass that they also took others, to
a considerable number, arid took their journey agaiq
into the wilderness. And I, Amaleki,. had a brother,
who also went with them; and I hare riot since known
concerning them. And I am about to lie down in my
grave; and thes? plates are full. And I make an end
ofmy speaking.
• • A• ‘ . *
■ **
1 : V 4 - * - r • -
i o -
’ * >
■ h
t ' v
' ■
THE WORDS OF MORMON^
* —'■
*
' 1 ‘
* CHAPTER1I. i
‘ I t • f‘ - V
I And now I, Mormon, being about to de liver tip the
I record which I*have been making, into the hands of
tny son Moroni, behold; 1 have witnessed^ almost all
the destruction of my people, the Nephites. And it is
many hundred years after the coming of Christ, that
I deliver these records into the bands of my son; and
it supposeth -me"that he'will witness the entire des­
truction of my people. But may Cod grant *that he
may survive them, that he may write somewhat con­
cerning them, and somewhat concerning'Christ, that
perhaps some day it may profit themr • *
•And now, 1 speak somewhat concerning that which
I have written: for after! had‘made5an abridgment
from the plates of Nep^i, down to the reign of this
king Benjamin, of whom Amaleki spake, 1 searched
among the records which had been delivered into my
ban 's, and 1 found these plates, which contained this
small account of the prophets, from Jacob, down to
the reign of this king Benjamin; and also many of the
words of Nephi. And the things which are upon these
plates ‘pleasing me, because1of the prophecies of the
coming of,Christ; and my fathers knowing that many
of them have been fulfilled; yea, and I also-know that
as many things as have been prophesied concerning us
down to this day, have been fulfilled; and as many as
go beyond ibis day, must surely coriie to pass; 'where­
fore, i chose' these things, to finish my record1upon
them, which remainder of my record I shall take from
the plates'ofNephi; and I cannot write the hundredth
part of the things of myvpeople. *
«
*
.*
»
•; rtfhjJ *
rsv .t
161
162 WORDS OK MORMOK.
But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain
these prophesying# and revelations, and pat them with
the remainder of my record, for they are choice unto
me; and 1know they will be choice unto my brethren.
And I do this for a wise purpose for thus it whisper-
eth me, according to the workings of the Spirit of the
Lord which is in me. And now, I do not know ,all
things; but the Lord knowelh all things which are to
come; wherefore, ho workHli in me to do according
to his will. And my prayer to God, is concerning my
brethren, that they may once again come to the knowl­
edge of God; yea, the redemption of Christ; that they
may once again be a delightsome people.
And now f, Mormon, proceed to finish out my rec­
ord, which I take from the plates of Nephi; and I
make it according to the knowledge and the under­
standing which God has given me. Wherefore, it
came to pass that after Amaleki had delivered up these
plates into the hands of king Benjamin, he took them
and put them with the other plates, which contained
records which had been handed down by the kings,
from generation to generation, until the days of king
Benjamin; and they were handed down from king
Benjamin, from generation to generation, until they
have fallen into my hands. And I, Mormon, pray to
God that they may be preserved, from this time hence­
forth. And I know that they will be preserved: for
there are great things written upon them, out of which
my people and their brethren, shall be judged at the
great and last day, according to the word of God which
is written.
And now, concerning this king Benjamin: He had
somewhat contentions among his own people. And
it came to pass also, that the armies of the Lamanites
came down out of the land of Nephi, to battle against
his people. But behold, king Benjamin gathered to-
fether his armies, and he did stand against them; and
e did fight with the strength of .his own arm, with
the sword of Laban; and in the strength of the Lord
they did contend against their enemies, until they had
slain many thousands of the Lamanites, And it came
to pass that,they did contend against the Lamanites,
until they had driven them out of all the lands of their
inheritance.
And it came to pass that after there had been false
christs, and their mouths had beeh shut, and they pun*
ished according to their crimes; and after there had
BOOK o r MOSIAH. m
been false prophets, and false,preachers,and teachers
among the people, and all these having been punished
according to their crimes; and after there having been
much contentions and many dissensions, away unto
the Lamanites, behold, it came to pass that king Ben­
jamin, with the assistance of the holy prophets who
were among his people: for behold, king Benjamin
was a holy man, and he did reign over his people in
righteousness. And there were many holy men in
the land; and they did speak the word of God, with
power and with authority; and they did use much
sharpness because of the stiffneckedness of the people;
wherefore, with the help, of these, king Benjamin, by
laboring with all the might of his body and the faculty
of Jiis whole soul, and also the prophets, did once
more establish peace in the land.
I
THE BOOK OF MOSIAH,
CHAPTER I.
Av» now there was no more contention in all the
land of Zarahemla, among all the people who belong­
ed to king Benjamin, so that king Benjamin had con­
tinual peace all the remainder of his days. Audit
came to pass that h^had three sons; and. he called
their names Mosiah, and Helorum, and Helaman.—
and he caused that they should be taught in all the
language of his lathers, that thereby they might be­
come men of understanding; and that they might
know concerning the prophecies which had been spo­
ken by the mouths of their lathers; which were deliv­
ered them by the hand of the Lord. 'And lie; also
taught them concerning the records,which w.ere engra­
ven on the plates of brass, saying, my sons, 1 would
that ye should remember, that were it not for these
plates, which contain these records and these com­
mandments, we must have suffered,in,ignorance, even
at this present time, not knowing the >
mysteries of
God: for it <
weie not possible that our father Lehi
could haveremembered all these things, to have taught
them to his children, except it were for the help of
these plates: for he having been taught in the language
164 BOOK OB MOSIAH.
of the Egyptians, therefore he could read these engra­
vings, and teach them to his children, that thereby
they could teach them to their children,fand‘so fulfil­
ling the commandments of Clod, even down to this
present time. 1 say unto you, my sons, were .it not
for these things, which have been kept and preserved
by the hand of God, that we might read and under­
stand of his mysteries, and have his commandments
always before our eyes, that even our fathers would
have dwindled in unbelief, and we should have been
like unto our brethren, the Lamanites, who know
nothing concerning these things, or even do not be­
lieve them when they are taught them, because of the
traditions of their fathers, which are not correct. O
my sons, I would that ye should remember that these
sayings are true; and also, that these records are true.
And behold, also the plates of Nephi, which contain
the records and the sayings of our fathers from the
time they left Jerusalem,, until now; and they axe
true; and we can know of their surely, because we
have them before our eyes. And now, my sons, I
would that ye should remember to search them dili­
gently, that ye may profit thereby; and I would that
ye should keep ttie commandments of God, that ye
may prosper in the land, according to the promises
which the Lord made unto oar fathers. And many
more things did king Benjamin teach his sons, which
are not written in this book. <
And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had
made an end of teaching his soi|s, that he waxed old;
and he saw that lie must very soon go the way of all
the earth; therefore, he thought it expedient that he
should confer the kingdom upon one of his sons,—
Therefore, he had Mosiah brought before him: and
these are the words which he spake unto him, saying:
My son, I would that ye should make a proclamation
throughout all this land, among all this people, or the
people of Zarahemta, and the people of Mosiah .who
dwell in tire land; that thereby they may be gathered
together: for on the morrow, I shall proclaim unto
this my people, out of mine own mouth, that thou art
a king, and a ruler over this people, whom the Lord
our God hath given us. And moreover, I shall give
this people a name, that thereby they may be distin­
guished above all the people whieh-the Lord God hath
brought out of the land of Jerusalem; and this I do,
because they have been a diligent people is keeping
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 1 6 5
the commandments of the Lord, vAnd I give unto
them a name, that never shall be blotted out, except it
be through transgression. Yea, and moreover I say
unto you, that if this highly favored people of the
Lord should fall into transgression, and become a wick­
ed and an adulterous people, that the Lord will deliv­
er them up, that thereby.'they become weak, like unto
their brethren; and he will no more preserve tthem,
by his matchless and marvelous, power, as he has
hitherto preserved our fathers. For I-say unto you,
that if he had not extended his arm in the preservation
of our fathers, they must have1
fallen. intocthe hands of
the Lamanites, and become victims to their hatred.
And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had
made art end of these sayings to his son, that he gave
him charge concerning all the affairs'of the kingdom.
And moreover, he also gave him charge concerning
the records which were engraven on the plates of
brass; and also, the plates-of Nepht; and also, the
sword of Laban, and-the ball or director, which led
our lathers through the wilderness, which was prepar­
ed by the hand of the Lord, that thereby they might
be led, every one according to the heed and diligence
which,they gave unto him. Therefore, as they were
unfaithful, they did not prosper nor progress in their
journey, but were driven back, and incurred the dis­
pleasure of God upon them; and therefore,, they were
smitten with famine and sore afflictions, to stir them
up in remembrance of their duty.
And now, it,came to pass that Mo3tah went and did
as his father had commanded him, and proclaimed un­
to all the people who were in the land of Zerahem
la, that thereby they might gather themselves togeth­
er, to go up to the temple, to hear the words which
his father should speak unto them.
And it came to pass that after Mosiah had done as
his father bad commanded him, and had made a proc­
lamation thrdughout all the- land, that the people
gathered themselves together throughout all the land,
that they might go up to the temple to hear the words
which king Benjamin should speak unto them. !And
there were a great number, even so many that they
did not number them; for they had multiplied exceed­
ingly! and waxed great in the land. And they also
took of the firstlings of their flocks, that they might
offer sacrifice'and burnt offerings, according to the
law of Moses; and also, that they might give thanks
166 BOOS OF KOSIAH.
to the Lord their God, who had brought them out of
the land of Jerusalem, and who had delivered them
out of the bands of their enemies, and bad appointed
just men to be their teachers; and also, a just man to
be their king, who had established peace in the land
of Zerahemla, and who had taught them to keep the
commandments of God, that they might rejoice, and
be filled with love towards God, and all men.
And it came to pass that when they came up to the
temple, they pitched their tents round about, every
man according to' his family, consisting of his wile,
and his sons, and his daughters, and their sons, and
their daughters, from the eldest down to the youngest,
every family being separate, one from another; and
they pitched their tents round about tlie temple, every
man having his tent with the door thereof towards the
temple, that thereby they might remain in their tents,
and hear the words which king Benjamin should speak
unto them; for the multitude being so great, that
king Benjamin could not teach them all within the
walls of the temple; therefore he caused a tower to
be erected, that thereby his people might hear the
words which he should speak unto them.
And it came to pass that he began to speak to his
people from the tower; and they could not all hear
his words, because of the greatness of the multitude;
therefore, he caused that the words which he spake,
should be written' and sent forth among those that
were not under the sound of his voice, that they might
also receive his words. And these are the words
which he spake and caused to be written, saying: My
brethren, all ye that have assembled yourselves to­
gether, you that can hear my words which I shall
speak unto you -this day: fori have not commanded
you to come up hither to trifle with the'words which
1 Bhall speak, but that you should hearken unto me,
and open your ears that ye may hear, and your hearts
that ye may understand, and your minds that the
mysteries of God may be unfolded to your view. I
have not commanded you to come up hither, that ye
should fear me, or that ye should think that I, of my­
self, am more than a mortal man; but 1 am like as
yourselves, subject t* all manner of infirmities in body
and mind; yet, as I have been chosen by this, people,
and consecrated by ray father, and was suffered by the
hand of the Lord that I should be a ruler, and a king
’over this people}* and have been kepb and preserved
BOOK OB MOSIAH. 167
by his matchless power, to serve thee with all the
might, mind, and strength which the Lora hath
granted unto me; I say unto you, that as I have been
suffered to spend my days in your service, even up to
this time, and have not sought gold nor silver, nor any
manner of riches of you; neither have I suffered that*
ye should be confined in dungeons, nor that ye should
make slaves one of another, or that ye should murder,
or plunder, or steal, or commit adultery,, or even I
have not suffered that ye should commit any manner
of wickedness, and have taught you that ye should
keep the commandments of the Lord, in all things
which he hath commanded you; and even I, myself, -
have labored with mine own hands, that 1 might serve
yon, and that ye should not be laden with taxes, and’1
that there should nothing come upon you which was
grievious to be borne; and of all these things which It
have spoken, ye yourselves are witnesses this day.—
Yet, my brethren, 1 have not done these things that I
might boast, neither do I tell these things that there­
by I might accuse you; but I tell you these things,
that ye may know that 1 can answer a clear conscience
before Goa this day. Behold, I say unto you, that
because I said unto you that I had spent my days in
your service, I do not desire to boa3t, for I have only
been in the service of God. And behold, I tell you
these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may
learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow
beings, ye are only in the service of your God. Be­
hold, ye have called me your king; and if I, whom ye
call your king, do labor to serve you, then had not ye
ought to labor to serve one another? And behold, al­
so, if I, whom ye call your king, who has spent his
days in your service, ana yet has been in the service
of God, doth merit any thanks from G how had
you? my brethren, that if you should render all the
thanks and praise which your whole souls has power
to possess, to that God who has created you, and has
kept and preserved you, and has caused that ye should
rejoice, and has granted that ye should live in peace
one with another; I say unto you, that if ye should
Berve him who has created you from the beginning,
and art preserving you from day to day, by lending
you breath, that ye may live and move, and do accord­
ing to your own will, and even supporting you from
one moment to another; 'I say, if ye should serve him
you ought to thauk your heavenly I say unto
16S BOOK o r MOSIAH.
with all your whole soul, yet ye would be unprofitable
servants. And behold, all that he requires of you, is
to keep his commandments; and he has promised you
that if ye would keep his commandments, ye should
prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that
which he hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his com­
mandments, he doth bless you, and prosper you.
And now, in the first place, he hath created you,
and gianted unto you your lives, for which ye are in­
debted unto him. And secondly: He doth require
that ye should do as he hath commanded;, you, for
which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you; and
therefore, lie hath paid you. And ye are still indebted
un^o him; and are, and will be, forever and ever;
therefore, of what have ye to boast? And now I ask,
c#n ye say aught of yourselves? I answer you, nay.
Ye cannot say that ye are even as much as the dust
of the earth: yet ye were created of the dust of
the earth: but behold, it belongclh to him who cre­
ated you. And 1, even I, whomye call your king, am
no better than ye yourselves are; for 1 am also of the
dust. And ye behold that I am old, and am about
to yield up this mortal frame to its mother earth:
therefore, as I said unto you that I had served you,
walking with a clear conscience before God, even so I
at this time have caused that ye should assemble your­
selves together, that I might he found blameless, and
that your blood should not come upon me, when I
shall stand to ba judged of'.God of the things whereof
he hall) commanded me concerning you. I say unto '
you, that 1 have caused that ye should assemble your­
selves together, that ! might rid my- garmepts of your
blood, at tills period of time .when 1 am about to go
down to my grave, that I might go down in peace, and
my immortal spirit may join the choirs above in sing­
ing the praises of a just God. And moreover, I say
unto you, that I have caused that ye should assemble
yourselves together, that I might declare unto you
that I can no longer be your teacher, nor ’
'your king;
for even at this time, my whole framg doth tremble
exceedingly, white attempting to speak unto you i but
the Lord God doth support me, and hath suffered me
that I should speak unto you, and bath commanded me
that I should declare unto you this day, that my soit
Mosiah, is a king and a ruler oyer you;1
' -c 't
And now, my brethren, I.would-that ye should do
as ye have hitherto done.!" As ye have kept my cone-
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 169
mandments, and also the commandments of my father,
and have prospered, and have been kept from fulling
into the hands of your enemies, even so if ye shall
keep the commandments of my son, or the command­
ments of God, which shall be delivered unto you by
him, ye shall prosper in the land, and your enemies
shall have no power over you. But 0 my people, be­
ware lest there shall arise contentions among you, and
ye list to obey the evil spirit, which was spoken of by
my father Mosiuh. For behold, there is a wo pro­
nounced upon him who listelh to obey that spirit; for
if he listeth to obey him, and remainelh and dieth in
his sins, the same drinketh damnation to Ins own soul;
for he receivelh for his wages an everlasting punish­
ment, having transgressed the law of God, contrary to
his own knowledge. 1 say unto you, that there are
not any among you, except it be your little children,
that have not he m taught concerning these things;
bnt what knoweth that ye are eternally indebted to
your heavenly Father, to render to him all that you
tave, and are, and also have been taught, concerning -
the records which contain the prophecies which have
been spoken by the holy prophets, even down to the
time our father Lehi left Jerusalem; and also, all that
lias been spoken by our fathers, until now. And be­
hold, also, they spake that which was commanded
them of the Lord; therefore, they are just and true.
• And now, I say unto you, my brethren, that after
ye have known and have been taught all these things,
if ye should transgress, and go contrary to that which
has been spoken, that ye do withdraw yourselves from 5
the Spirit of the Lord, that it may have no place in
you to guide you in wisdom’s paths, that ye may be
blessed, prospered, and preserved. I say unto you,
that the man that doith this, the same cometh out in
open rebellion against God; therefore he listeth to obey
the evil spirit, and becometh an enemy to all right-
eousness; therefore, the Lord lias no place in him, for ^
he dweileth not in unholy temples. Therefore, if that
man rspenteth not, and remaineth and dieth an enemy ^
to God, tiie demands of divine justice doth awaken hie
immortal soul to a lively sense of his own guilt, which
doth cause him to shrink from the presence of the
Lord, and doth fill his breast with guilt, and pain, and
anguish, which is like an unquenchable fire, whose
flames ascendeth up forever and ever. And how I say
H
BOOK OF MCSIAH.
onto you, that mercy hath no claim on that man;
therefore, Ills final doom is to endure a never ending
torment.
O all ye old men, and also ye young men, and you
little children, who can understand my words, (for I
have spoken plain unto yon, that yc might understand,)
I pray that ye should awake to a remembrance of the
awful situation of those that have fallen into trans­
gression; and moreover, I would desire that ye should
consider on the blessed and happy state of those that
keep the commandments of Cod. For behold, they
are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual;
and if they Isold out faithful to the end, they are re­
ceived into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with
God in a stale of never ending happiness. O remem­
ber, remember that these things are true; for the Lord
God hath spoken it.
And again my brethren, I would call your attention,
for l have somewhat more to speak unto j'ou: for be­
hold, 1 have tilings to tell you, concerning that which
is to come; and the tilings which 1 shall tell you, arc
made known unto me, by an angel from God. And
he said unto me, awake; and 1 awoke, and behold, he
stood before me. And he said unto me, awake, and
hear the words whicli I shall tell thee: for behold, I
am come to declare unto you the glad tidings of great
joy. For the Lord hath heard thy prayers, and hath
judged of thy righteousness, anti hath sent me,to de­
clare unto thee that thou mayest rejoice; and that
thou mayesl declare unto thy people, that they may
also be filled with joy. For behold, the time uometh,
and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord Om­
nipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eter­
nity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven,
among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tab­
ernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men,
working mighty miracles, such as healing the sick,
raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind
to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing
all manner of diseases; and he shall cast out devils,
or the evil spirits which dwell in the hearts of the
children of men. And lo, he shall sutler temptations,
and pain of body, hunger, thirst, and fatigue, even
more than roan can sutler, except it be unto death:
for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so .great
shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abom­
inations of his peoDle. And he shall be called Jesus
176
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 17L
Christ, the oon of God, the Father of heaven and
earth, the creator of all things, from the beginning;
and his mother shall be called Alary. And lo, he
cometh unto his own, that salvation might come unto
the children of men, even through faith on his name;
and even after all this, they shall consider him a man,
and say that he hath a devil, and shall scourge him,
and shall crucify him. And he shall rise the third
day from the dead; and behold, he standeth to judge
the world. And behold, all these things are done, that
a righteous judgment might come upon the children of
men. For behold, and also his blood atoneth for the
sins of those who have fallen by the transgression of
Adam, who have died, not knowing the will of God
concerning them, or who have ignorantly sinned. But
wo, wo unto him who knoweth that he rebelleth
against God: for salvation cometh to none such, ex­
cept it be through repentance and faith on the Lord
Jesus Christ. And the Lord God hath sent his holy
prophets among all the children of men, to declare
these things to every kindred, nation, and tongue, that
thereby whosoever should believe that Christ should
come, the same might receive remission of their sins,
and rejoice with exceeding great joy, even as though
he had already come among them. Yet the Lord God
saw that his people were a'stiffnecked people, and he
appointed unto them a law, even the law of Moses.
And many signs, amt wonders, and types, and shad­
ows shewed he unto them, concerning his coining;
and also holy prophets spake unto them concerning
his coming; and yet they hardened their hearts, and
understood not that the law of Moses availeth no­
thing, except it were through the atonement of his
blood; and even if it were possible that little children
could sin, they could not be saved; but 1 say unto
you, they are blessed; for behold, as in Adam, or by
nature they fall, even so the blood of Christ atoneth
for their sins. And moreover, I say unto you, that
there shall be no other name given, nor any other
way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the
children of men, only in and through the name of
Christ, the Lord Omnipotent. For behold, hejudg-
eth, and his judgment is just, and the infant perisheth
not, that dieth in his infancy; but men drink damna­
tion to their own souls, except they humble them­
selves, and become as little; children, and believe that
salvation was, and is, and is to come, in and through
r
172 BOOK OF MOStAH,
the atoning blood of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent:
for the natural man is an enemy to God, and has been,
from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever;
but if he- yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit,
and putteth off the natural man, and becometh a saint,
through the atonement of Christ, the Lord, and be­
cometh as a child, submissive, meek,, humble, patient,
full of love, willing to submit to all things which the
Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth
submit to his father. And moreover, I say unto you,
that the time shall come, when the knowledge of a
Savior shall spread throughout every nation, kindred,
tongue, and people. And behold, when tiiat time
cometh, none shall be found blameless before God,
except it be little children, only through repeptance
and faith on the name of the Lord God Omnipotent;
and eve3i at this time, when thou shalt have taught
thy people the things which the Lord thy God hath
■
' commanded thee, even then are they found no more
f blameless in the sight of God, only according to the
words which I have spoken unto thee.
And now, I have spoken the words which the Lord
God hath commanded me. And thus saith the Lord;
; They shall stand as a bright testimony against this
i people, at the judgment day; whereof, they shall be
: judged, every man, according to his works, whether
they be good, or whether they be evil; and if they be
t evil, they are consigned to an awful view of their own
guilt and abominations, which doth cause them to
j shrink from the presence of the Lord, into a state of
I misery and endless torment, from whence they can no
more return; therefore, they have drunk damnation
p
, to their own souls. Therefore,'■they have drunk out
f- of the cup of the wrath of God, which justice could
^ no more deny unto them, than it could deny that Ad-
t am should fall, because of his partaking of the forbid-
I: den fruit; therefore, mercy could have,claim on them
t no more forever. And their torment is as a lake of
fe fire and brimstone, whose flames are unquenchable,
I ’ and whose smoke ascendelh up forever and ever.—
I- Thus hath the Lord commanded me. Amen.
' „ '•■
it5
.'' V
h. , ’w
-
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 173
CHAPTER II.
And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin
had made an end of speaking the words which had
been delivered unto him by the angel of the Lord, that
he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and
behold they had fallen to the earth, for the fear of the
Lord had come upon them; and they had viewed*
themselves in their own carnal state, even less than
the dust of the earth. And they all cried aloud with,
one voice, saying, O have mercy, and apply the aton­
ing blood of Christ, that we may receive forgiveness-
of our sins, and our hearts may be purified; for we
believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who created
heaven and earth, and all things, who shall come
down among the children of men.
And it came to pass that after they had spoken
these words, the spirit of the Lord came upon them,
and they were filled with joy, having received a re-,
mission of their sins, and having peace of conscience,
because of the exceeding faith which they had in Je­
sus Christ who should come, according to the words
which king Benjamin had spoken unto them. And king
Benjamin again opened his mouth, and began to
speak unto them, saying, my friends and my brethren,
my kindred and my people, I would again call your
attention, that ye may hear and understand the re­
mainder of my words which I shall speak unto you:
for behold, if the knowledge of the goodness of God at
this time, has awakened you to a sense of your no- ,
-thingness, and your worthless and fallen state; I say un- '|
to you, if ye have come to a knowledge of the goodness if
of God, and his matchless power, and his wisdom,
and his patience, and his long suffering towards the
children of men, and also, the atonement which has
been prepared from the foundation of the world, that
thereby salvation might come to him that should put
his trust in the Lord, and should be diligent in keep­
ing his commandments, and continue in the faith even jjl
unto the end of his life; I mean the life of the mortal
body; I say, that this is the man that receive!h salva­
tion, through the atonement which was prepared from *
the foundation of the world, for all mankind, which
ever were ever since the fall of Adam, or who are or
who ever shall be, even unto the end of the world;
and this is the means whereby salvation cometh. And
there is none other salvation, save this: which hath
174 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
been spoken of; neither is there any conditions where­
by man can be saved, except the conditions which I
have told yon. Believe in God; believe that he is,
and that he created all things, both in heaven and in
earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power,
both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth
not comprehend all the things which the Lord can
comprehend. And again: Believe that ye must re­
pent of your sins and forsake them, and humble your­
selves before God; and ask in sincerity of heart that
he would forgive you: and now, if you believe all
these things see that ye do them. And again I say
unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come
to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have
known of his goodness, and have tasted of Ins love,
and have received a remission of your sins, which
causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even
so I would that ye should remember, and always re­
gain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your
own nothingness, and his goodness and long suffering
towards you unworthy creatures, and humble your­
selves even in the depths of humility, calling on the
name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in
the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken
by the mouth of the angel; and behold, I say unto
you, that if ye do this, ye shall always rejoice, and
be filled with the love of God, and always retain a
remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the
knowledge of {he glory of him that created you, or in
the knowledge of that which is just and true. And
;re will not have a mind to injure one another, but to
ive peaceably, and to render to every m a n according
to that which is his due. And ye will not suffer your
children, that they go hungry, or naked; neither will
ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and
fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the dev­
il, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit
which hath been spoken of by our fathers^- he being
an enemy to all righteousness: but ye will teach them
to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will
teach them to love one another, and to serve one an­
other; and also, ye yourselves will succor.those that
stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of
your substance unto him that standetb ih need; and
ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his peti­
tion to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. Per-
BOOK OF MOS1AH. 17$
self his misery, therefore, I will stay my hand, and
will not give unto him of my food, nor imparl unto
him of iny substance, that he may not suffer, for his
punishments are just. But I say unto you, O man,
whosoever doeth this, the same hath great cause to
repent; and except he repenteth of that which he
hath done, he perisheth forever, and halh no interest
in the kingdom of God. For behold, are wc not all
beggars? Do we not all depend upon the same being,
even God, for all the substance which we have: for
both food, and raiment, and for gold, and for silver,
and for all the riches which we have of every kind?
And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling
on his name, and begging for a remission of your sins.
And has he suttered that ye have begged in vain?—
Nay; he has poured out his spirit upon you, and has
caused that your hearts should be filled with joy, and
lias caused that your mouths should be stopped, that
ye could not find utterance, so exceeding great was
your joy. And now, if God, who has created you, on
whom you arc dependant for your lives, and for all
that ye have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever
ye ask that is right, in faith, believing that shall
receive, O then, how had ye ought to impact of the
substance that ye have, one to another? Awfl if ye
judge the man who pulteth up his petition to*'you for
your substance, that lie perish not, and condemn him,
how much more just will be your condemnation, for
withholding your substance, which doth not belong
to you, but to God, to whom also, your life bclong-
eth; and yet ye put up no petition, nor repent of the
thing which thou hast done. I say unto you, wo be
unto that man, for bis substance shall perish wit.h
him; and now, I say these things unto those who are
rich, as pertaining to the things of this world. And
again, I say unto the poor, ye that have not and yet
have sufficient, that ye remain from day to day; I
mean all you that deny the beggar, because ye have
not; I would that ye say in your hearts, that 1give
not because I have not; but if I had, I would give.
And now, if ye say this in your hearts, ye remain
guiltless, otherwise ye are condemned, and your con­
demnation is just: for ye covet that which ye have
not received.
And now, for the sake of these things which I have
spoken unto you; that is, for the sake ofretaing a re­
mission of your sins from day to day, that ye may
1 7 6 BOOS OF MOSIAH.
walk guiltless before God, Twould that ye should im­
part of your substance to the poor, every man accord­
ing to that which he hath, such as feeding the hung­
ry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick, and adminis­
tering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally,
acentding to their wants, and see that all these things
are done in wisdom and order: for it is not requisite
that a man should run faster than he has strength.—
And again: Jt is expedient that he should be diligent,
that, thereby he might win the prize: therefore, all
things must he done in order. And I would that ye
should remember, that whosoever among you that
borrowed: of his neighbor, should return the thing
that he borroweth, according as he doth agree, or else
thou shall commit sin, and perhaps thou shaft cause
thy neighbor to commit sin also. And finally, I can­
not tell yon alt the things whereby ye may commit
sin: for there are divers ways and means, even so ma­
ny, that I cannot number them. Cut this much I can
tell you, that if ye do not watcli yourselves, and your
thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, and ob­
serve the commandments of God, and continue in the
faith cflLwhal ye have heard concerning the coming of
our Com, even unto the end of your lives, ye must
perish. i5ft.nd now, O man, remember, and perish not.
CHAPTER III.
Ann now. it came to pass that when king Benjamin
had thus spoken to his people, lie sent nmong them,
desiring to know of his people, if they believed the
words which lie had spoken unto them. And they all
cried with one voice, saying, Yea, we believe all the
words which thou hast spoken unto us; and also, we
know of their surety and truth, because of the Spirit
of the Lord Omnipotent, which has wrought a mighty
change in ns, or in our hearts, that we have no more
disposition to do evil, but to do good continually.—
And we, ourselves, also, through the infinite goodness
of God, and the manifestations of his Spirit, have
great views of that which is to come; and were it ex­
pedient, we could prophesy of all things. And it i*
the faith which we nave had on the things which our'
BOOK OF MQSIAH. 177
king has spoken unto us, and has brought us to this
great knowledge, whereby we do rejoice with such
exceeding great joy: and we are willing to enter into
a covenant with our God, to do his will, and to bo
obedient to his commandments in all things that he
shall command us, all the remainder of our days, that
we may not bring upon ourselves a never ending tor­
ment, as lias been spoken by the angel, that we may
not drink out of the cup of the wrath of God. t
And now, these are the words which king Benjamin
desired of them; and therefore lie said unto them, Ye
have spoken the words that I desired; and the cove­
nant which ye have made, is a righteous covenant.
And now, because of the covenant which yc have
made, ye shall be called the children of Christ, his
sons, and his daughters: for behold, this day he hath
spiritually begotten you; for ye say that your hearts
are changed through faith on his name; therefore, ye
are bom of him, and have become his sons and his
daughters. And under this head, ye are made free;
and there is no other head whereby ye can be made
free. There is no other name given, whereby salva­
tion cometh; therefore, I would that ye should take
upon you the name of Christ, all you that have enter­
ed into the covenant with God, that ye should be obe­
dient unlo the end of your lives. And it shall come
to pass that whosoever doetli this, shall be found at
the right hand of God, for lie shall know the name by
which he is called; for he shall be called by the name
of Christ.
And now, it shall come to pass that whosoever
shall not take upon them the name of Christ, must be
called by some other name; therefore, he findeth him­
self on the left hand of God. And 1 would that ye
should remember also, that this is the name that I
said 1 should give unto you, that never should be blot­
ted out, except it be through transgression; therefore,
take heed that ye do not transgress, that the name be
not blotted out of your hearts. I say unto you, I
would that ye should remember to retain the name
written always in your hearts, that ye are not found
on the left hand of God, but that ye hear and know
the voice by which ye shall be called, and also, the
name by which he shall call you: for, how knoweth a
man the master whom he has not served, and who is
a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and
intents of his heart! And again: Doth a man taka
178 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
■
i
an ass which belongeth to his neighbor, and keep him!
I say unto you, nay; he will not even suffer that ha
shall feed among his flocks, but will drive him away,
and cast him out. I say unto you, that even so shall
it be among you, if ye, know not the name by which
ye are called. Therefore, 1 would that ye should be
steadfast ami immovable, always abounding in good
works, that Christ, the Lord God Omnipotent, may
seal you his, that you may be brought to heaven, that
ye may have everlasting salvation and eternal life,
through the wisdom, and power, and justice, and
meicy of him, who created all things, in heaven and
in earth, who is God above all. Amen.
CHAPTER IV. ,
t
i And now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient,
< after having finished speaking to the people, that he
| should take the names of all those who had entered
j' into a covenant with God, to keep his command-
k meats. And it came to pass that there was not one
soul, except it were little children, but what had en-
k tered into the covenant, and had taken upon them the
| name of Christ. And again: It came to pass that
, when king Benjamin had made an end of all these
? things, and had consecrated his son Mosiah, to be a
ruler and a king over his people, and had given him
all the charges concerning the kingdom, and also had
1 appointed priests to teach the people, that thereby
i they might hear and know the commandments of God,
t and to stir them up in remembrance of the oath which
r they had made, he dismissed the multitude, and they
I returned, every one according to their families, to
[ their own houses.
f And Mosiah began to reign in his father’s stead.
J And lie began to reign in the thirtieth year of his age,
\ making in the whole, about four hundred and seventy-
} six years from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem. And
| king Benjamin lived three years, and he died. And it
came to pass that king.Mosiah did walk in the ways
of the Lord, and did observe.bis judgments, and his
statutes, and did keep his commandments in all things
whatsoever he commanded him. «
. - :t::
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 179
And king Mosiah did cause his people that they
should till the earth. And he also, himself did till the
earth, that thereby he might not become burthensome
to his people, that he might do according to that
which his rather had done, in all things. And there
was no contention among all his people, for the space
ofthree years. ^
CHAPTER V.
Axn now, it came to pass that after king Mosiah
had had continual peace, for the space of three years,
he was desirous to know concerning the people who
went up to dwell in the land of Lebi-Nephi, or in the
city of Lehi-Nephi: for his people had heard nothing
from them, from the time they left the land of Zara-
hemla; therefore, they wearied him with their teas­
ings.
And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted that
sixteen of their strong men might go up to the land
of Lehi-Nephi, to inquire concerning their brethren.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, they started
to go up, having with them one Ammon, he being a
strong and mignly man, and a descendant of Zara-
hemla; and he was also their leader. And now, they
knew not the course they should travel in the wilder,
ness, to go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi; therefore,
they wandered many days in the wilderness, even for­
ty days did they wander. And when they had wan­
dered forty days, they came to a hill, which is north
of the land of Shitoin, and there they pitched their
tents. And Ammon took three of his brethren, and
their names were Amaleki, Helem, and Hem, and
they went down into the land of Neplii; and behold,
they met the king of the people, who was in the land
of Nephi, and in the land of Shilom; and they were
surrounded by the king's guard, and were taken, and
were bound, and were committed to prison. And it
came to pass when they had been in prison two days,
they were again brought before the king, and their
bands were loosed; and they stood before the king,
and were permitted, or rather- commanded that they
should answer the 'questions which he .should ass
180 BOOK OF MOSL&B.
them. And he said unto them, behold, I am Limhi,
the son of Noah, who was the son of Zeniff, who
came up out of the land of Zarahenila to inherit this
land, which was the laud of their fathers, who was
made a king by the voice of the people. And now, I
desire to know the cause whereby ye were so bold as
to come near the walls of the city, when I, myself,
was with my guards, without the gate! And now,
lor this cause have 1 suffered that ye should be pre­
served, that I might inquire of you, or else I should
have caused that my guards should have put you to
death. Ye are permitted to speak.
And now, when Ammon saw that he was permitted
to speak, lie went forth and bowed himself before the
king; and rising again he said, O King, I am very
thankful before God ibis day, that 1 am yet alive, and
am permitted to speak; and I will endeavor to speak
with boldness: for 1 am assured that if ye had known
me, ye would not have suffered that I should have
wore these hands. For I am Ammon, and am a de­
scendant of Zarahemla, and have come up out of the
land of Zarahemla, to inquire concerning our breth­
ren, whom Zeniff brought up out of that land.
And now, it came 10 pass that after Limhi had
heard the words of Ammon, he was exceeding glad,
and said, now, I know of a surety that my brethren
who were in the land of Zarahemla, are yet alive.—
And now, I will rejoice; and on the morrow, I will
cause that my people shall rejoice also. For behold,
we are in bondage to the Lamanites, and are taxed
with a tax which is grievous to be borne. And now,
behold, our brethren will deliver us out of our bondage,
or out of the hands of the Lamanites, and we will be
their slaves: for it is better that we be slaves to the
Nephites, than to pay tribute to the king of the La­
manites.
And now, king Limhi commanded his guards that
they should no more bind Ammon, nor his brethren,
but caused that they should go to the hill which was
north of Shilom, and bring their brethren into the city,
that thereby they might eat, and drink, and rest them­
selves from the labors of their journey; for they had
suffered many things; they had suffered hunger, thirst,
and fatigue.
And now, it came to pass'on the morrow, that king
Limhi sent a proclamation among, all his people, that
thereby they might gather themselves together to the
BOOK OF M03IAH. 181
temple, to hear the words which he should speak un­
to them. And it came to pass that when they had
gathered themselves together, that he spake unto
them in this wise, saying, O ye, my people, lift up
your heads and be comforted: for behold, the time is
at hand, or is not far distant, when we shall no longer
be in subjection to our enemies, notwithstanding our
many stragglings, which have been in vain; yet I
trust there remainelh an effectual struggle to be made.
Therefore, lift up your heads, and rejoice, and put
your trust in God, in that God who was the God of
Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob; and also, that God
who brought the children of Israel out of the land of
Egypt, and caused that they should walk through the
Red Sea on dry ground, and fed them with manna,
that they might not perish in the wilderness; and
many more things did he do for them. And again:
That same God nas brought our fathers out of the
land of Jerusalem, and has kept and preserved his pco-
pel, even until now. And behold, it is because of oul*
iniquities and abominations, that has brought us into
bondage. And ye all are witnesses this day, that Zeniff,
who was made king over this people, he being over-
zeaious to inherit the land of his fathers, therefore be­
ing deceived by the cunning and craftiness of king
Laman, who having entered into a treaty with king
Zeniff, and having yielded up into his hands the pos­
sessions of a part of the land, or even the city of Lebi-
Nephi, and the city of Shilotn; and the land round
about; and all this he did, for the sole purpose of
bringing this people into subjection, or into bondage.
And behold, we at this time do pay tribute to the king
of the Lamanites, to the amount of one half of our
corn, and our barley, and even all our grain of every
kind, and one half of the increase of our flocks, and
our herds; and even one half of all we have or pos­
sess, the king of the Lamanites doth exact of us, or our
lives. And now, is not this grievous to be borne?
And is not this, our affliction great? Now behold,
how great reason have we to mourn. Yea, I say unto
you, great are the reasons which we have to mourn:
for behold, how many of our brethren have been slain,
and their blood has been spilt in vain, and all because
of iniquity. For if this people had not fallen into
transgression, the Lord would not have suffered that
this great evil should come upon them. But behold,
they would,not hearken unto his words; hut there
S
f ' *
1 8 2 b o o k o f M OSIAH.
arose contentions among them, even so much that
they did shed blood among themselves- And a proph­
et of the Lord have they slain; yea, a chosen man of
God, who told them of their wickedness and abomina­
tions, and prophesied of many things which are to
come, yea, even the coming of Christ, And because
lie said unto them, that Christ was the God, the Fa­
ther of all things, and said that he should take upon
him the image of man, and it should be the image af­
ter which man was created to the beginning; or in
other words, he said that man was created after the
image of God, and that God should come down among
the children of men, aud take upon him flesh and
blood, and go forth upon the face of the earth; and
now, because iie said this, they did put him to death;
and many more tilings did they do. which brought
down the wrath of God upon them. Therefore, who
wondereth that they are in bondage, and that they
are smitten with sore afflictions! For behold, the
Lord has said, 1 will not succor my people in the day
of their transgression; but 1 will hedge up their ways,
that they prosper not; and their doings shall be as a
stumbling block before them. And again, he saith, if
my people shall sow filthiness, they shall reap the
chaff thereof, in the whirlwind; and the effects there-
of, is poison. And again, lie saith, if my people shall
sow filthiness, they shall reap the east wind, which
bringeth immediate destruction. And now, behold,
the promise of the Lord is fulfilled; and ye are smit­
ten, and afflicted. But if ye will turn to the Lord
with full purpose of heart, and put your trust in him,
and serve him with all diligence of mind; if ye do
this, he will, according to his own will and pleasure,
deliver you out of bondage.
Aud it came to pass that after king Limhi had made
.an end of speaking to his people, for he spake many
things unto them, and only a few of them have i writ­
ten in this book, he told his people all the things con­
cerning their brethren who were in the land of Zara-
hemla: and he caused that Ammon should stand up
before the multitude, and rehearse unto them all that
had happened unto their brethren, from the time that
Zeniff went up out of the land, even until the time
that he himself came up out of the land. And be also
rehearsed unto them the last words which king Benja-
k min had taught them, and explained them to the peo-
| - pie ofking Limhi, so that they might understand all
r
BOOK OF MOS1AH. 183
the words which he spake. And it came to pass that
after he had done all this, that king Limhi dismissed
the multitude, and caused that they should return, ev­
ery one unto his own house.
And it came to pass that he caused that the plates
whicli contained the record of his people, from the
time that they left the land of Zaraltemla, should be
brought before Ammon, that he might read them.—
Now, as soon as Ammon had read the record, the
king inquired of him to know if he could interpret lan­
guages. And Ammon told him that he could not.—
And the king said unt<5 him, being grieved for the af­
flictions of my people, I caused that forty and three of
my people should take a journey into the wilderness,
that thereby they might find the land of Zarahemla;
that we might appeal unto our brethren to deliver us
out of bondage; and they were lost in the wilderness,
for the space of many days, yet they were diligent,
and foun<\ not the land of Zarahemla, but returned to
this land, having traveled in a land among many wa­
ters; having discovered a land which was covered
with bones of men, and of beasts, &c., and was also
covered with ruins of-buildings of every kind; having
discovered a land which had been peopled with a peo­
ple who were as numerous as the hosts of Israel.—
And for a testimony that the things that they have
said are true, they have brought twenty four plates,
which are filled with engravings; and they are of pure
gold. Arid behold, also, they have brought breast­
plates, whicli are large; ,and they are of brass, and of
copper, and are perfectly sound. And again, they
have brought swords, the hilts thereof have perished,
and the blades thereof were cankered with rust; and
there is no one in the land that is able to interpret the
language or the engravings that are on the plates.—
Therefore, I said unto thee, canst thou translate!—
And I say unto thee again, knowest thou of any one
that can translate? for I am desirous that these rec­
ords should be translated into our language. For,
perhaps tliey will give us a knowledge of a*remnantof
the people who have been destroyed, from whence
these records came; or, perhaps they will give us a
knowledge of this very people who have been destroy­
ed; and 1 am desirpus to know the cause of their des­
truction.
Now Ammon said unto him, I can asssuredly tell
thee, O king, ofa man that can translate the records:
184 BOOK OF MOSIAII.
for he has wherewith that he can lookt and translate
all records that are of ancient date: and it is a gift
from God. And the things are called interpreters;
and no man can look in them, except he be command­
ed, lest he should look for that tic ought not, and he
should perish. And whosoever is commanded to look
in them, the same is called seer. And behold, the
king of the people who is in the land of Zarahemla, is
the man that is commanded to do these tilings, and
who has tliis high gift from God. And the king said,
that a seer is greater than a prophet. And Ammon
said, that a seer is a revelator, and a prophet also;
and a gift which is greater, can no man have, except
he should possess the power of God, which no man
can; yet a man may have great power given him from
God. But a seer can know of things which have past,
and also of things which are to come; and by them
shall all things be revealed, or rather, shall secret
things be made manifest, and hidden things shall come
to light, and things which are not known, shall be
made known by them; and also, things shall be made
known by them, which otherwise could not be known.
Thus God has provided a means that man, through
faith, might work mighty miracles: therefore, lie be-
cometh a great benefit to his fellow beings.
And now, when Ammon had made an end of speak­
ing these words, Die king rejoiced exceedingly, and
gave thands to God, saying, doubtless, a great myste­
ry is contained within these plates; and these interpret­
ers were doubtless prepared for the purpose of unfold­
ing all such mysteries to the children of men, O how
marvelous are the works of the Lord, and how long
doth he suffer with his people; yea, and how blind
and impenetrable arc the understandings of the child­
ren of men: for they will not seek wisdom, neither do
they desire that she should rule over them. Yea, they
are as a wild flock, which flecth from the shepherd,
and scattereth, and are driven, and are devoured by
the beasts of the forest.
BOOK or MOSIAH. 185
' CHAPTER VI. '
THE RECORD OF ZENIFF.
An account of hispeople,from tkc time theyleft the land,
of Zarakcmla, until the time that' they were delivered
out of the hands of the Lumanites.
I, Zr.ntrr, having been taught in ttU the language
of the Nephites, and having had a knowledge of the
land of Nephi, or of the land of our fathers’ first inher­
itance, and having been sent as a spy among the La-
maniles, 'that 1might spy out their forces, that our ar­
my might come upon them and destroy them; but
when I saw that which was good among them, I was
desirous that they should not be destroyed: therefore,
I contended with my brethren in the wilderness: for I
would that our ruler should make a treaty with them.
But he being an austere and a blood-thirsty man, com­
manded that I should be slain; but P was rescued by
the shedding of much blood: for father fought against
father, and brother against brother, until the greatest
number of our army was destroyed in the wilderness;
and we returned, those of ua that were spared, to the
land of Zarahemla, to relate that tale to their wives,
and their children. And yet, ,1 being over zealous to
inherit the land of our fathers, collected as many as
were desirous to go up to possess the land, and start­
ed again on our journey into the wilderness, to go tip
to the land; but we were smitten with famine and sore
afflictions: for we were slow to remember the Lord
our God. Nevertheless, after many days’ wandering
in the wilderness, we pitched our tents in the place
where our brethren were slain, which was near to the
land of our fathers.
And it came to pass that I went again with four of
my'men, into the city, in unto the king, that 1 might
know of the disposition ot the king, and that I might
know if I might go in with my people, and possess the
land in peace. And i went in unto the king, and he
covenanted with me, that I might possess the land of
Lehi-Nephi, and the land of Shilom. And he also
commanded that his people should depart out of ther
land, and I and roy people went into the land, that we
might possess it, And we began to build buildings,’’
and to repair the walls of the city,, yea,’even the"walls
fc-i. - , -
b2 >
■ *
186 BOOK OF KOSIAH.
of the city of Lehi-Nephi, &hd the city of Shilotn.—
-
And we began to till the ground, yea, even with all
manner of seeds, with seeds of corn, and of wheat, and
of barley, and with neas, and with sheum, and with
seeds of all manner of fruitB; and we did begin to mul­
tiply and prosper in the laud. Now, it was the cun­
ning and the craftiness of king Laman, to bring my
people into bondage, that he yielded up the land, that
we might possess it.
Therefore, it came to pass that after we had dwelt
in the land for the space of twelve years, that king
Laman began to grow uneasy, lest by any means my
people should wax strong in,the land, and that.they
could not overpower them and bring them into bond­
age. Now, they were a lazy, and an idolatrous peo­
ple; therefore, they were desirous to bring us into
bondage, that they might glut themselves with the la­
bors of our hands; yea, that they might feast them­
selves upon the tfoclift of our fields.
Therefore, it came to pass that king Laman began
to stir up his people, that they should contend with
my people; therefore, there began to he wais and con­
tentions in the land. For, in the thirteenth year of
my reign in the land of Nephi, away on the south of
the land of Shilom, when my people were wateringand
feeding their flocks, and tilling their lands, a numer­
ous ho£t of. Lamanites came upon them, and began to
slay them, and to take off their flocks, and the corn of
tl\|0Sr fields. Yea, and it came to pass that they fled,
all that were not overtaken, even into the city ofNe*
phi, and did call upon me for protection.
And it came to pass that I did arm them with bows,
and with arrows, with swords, and with cimeters, and
with clubs, and with slings, and with all maj.ner of
weapons which we could invent, and I and my people
did go forth against the Lamanites, to battle: yea, in
the strength of the Lord did we go forth to battle
against the Lamanites: for I and my people did cry
mightily to the Lord, that he would deliver us out of
the hands of our enemies, for we were awakened to ft
remembrance of the deliverance of our fathers. And
God did hear our cries, and did answer our prayers:
and we did go forth in his might. Yea, we did go.
forth against the Lamanites; and .in one day and a
night, we did slay three thousand and forty threes we
did slay them, even until we had driven them out of
our land. And I, myselft with mine own hands, did
BOOK OF MOS1AB. 1ST
help to bury their dead. And bebold, to our great
sorrow and lamentation, two hundred and seventy nine
of our brethren were slain.
And it came to pass that we again began to estab­
lish the kingdom; and we again began to possess the
land in peace. And I caused that there should be
weapons of war made, of every kind, that thereby I
might have weapons for my people, against the time
the Lamanites should come up again to war against
my people. And I set guards roundabout the land,
that the Lamanites might not come upon us again un­
awares, and destroy us; and thus I did guard my peo­
ple, and my flocks, and keep them from falling into
the hands of our enemies.
And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of
our fathers, for many years'; yea, for the space of
twenty and two years. And I did cause that the men
Bhould till the ground, and raise all manner of grain,
and all manner of fruit, of every kind. And I did
cause that the women should spin, and toil and work,
and Work all manner of fine linen; yea, and cloth of
every kind, that we might clothe our nakedness; and
thus we did prosper in the land; thus we did have
continual peace in the land, for the space of twenty
and two years.
And it came to pass that king Laipan died, and his
son began to reign in his stead. And he began to stir
his people up in rebellion against my people; therefore,
they began to prepare for war, and to come up to bat­
tle against my people. But I had sent my spies out
round about the land ofShemlon, that I might discov­
er their preparations, that 1might guard against them,
that they might not come upon my people and destroy
them. i
And it came to pass that they came up upon the
north ofthe land of Shilom, with their numerous hosts, 5
men armed with bows, and with arrows, and with
swords, and with cimeters, and with stones, and with
slings; and they had their heads shaved, that they
were naked; and they were girded with a leathern gir­
dle about their loins.
And it came to pass that I caused that the women
and children of my people should be hid in the wilder­
ness; and 1 also caused that all my old men that could
bear arms, and also all my young men thatrwere able t
to bear arms, should gather themselves together, to go
188 BOOK OF MOSI4H.
to battle against the Lamanites; and I did place them
in, their ranks, every man according' to iiis age. ,,,.
And it came to pass that we did go up to battle
against the Lnmanites. And I, even I, in my did age,
did go up to battle against the Lamanites. And it
came to pass that we did go up in the strength of the
Lord, to battle,
Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the
Lord, nor the strength of the Lord; therefore, they
depended upon their own strength. Yet they were a
strong people, as to the strength of men: they were a
wild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty people, believ­
ing in the tradition of their fathers, which is this:—
Believing that they were driven out of the land of Je­
rusalem, because of the iniquities of their fathers, and
that they were wronged in the wilderness by their
brethren; and they were also wronged, while crossing
the sea. And again: That they were wronged while
in the land of their first inheritance, after they had
crossed the sea; and all this, because that Nephi was
more faithful in keeping the commandments of the
Lord; therefore he was favored of the Lord, for the
Lord heard his prayers and answered them, and he
took the lead of their journey in the wilderness. And
his brethren were wroth with him, because they under­
stood not the dealings of the Lord; they were also
wroth with him upon the waters, because they hard­
ened their hearts against the Lord. And again: They
were wroth with him when they had arriven to the
promised land, because they said that he had taken the
ruling of the people out of their hands; and they
sought to kill him. And again: They were wroth
with him, because he departed into the wilderness as
the Lord had commanded him, and took the records
which were engraven on the plates of brass; for they
said that he robbed them. Ami thus they have taught
their children, that they should hate them, and that
they should murder them, and that they should rob
ami plunder them, and do all they could to destroy
them; therefore, they have an eternal hatred towards
the children of Nephi. For this very cause has king
Larnan, by his cunning and lying craftiness, and his
fair promises, deceived me, that I have brought this,
my people, up into this land, that they may destroy
them; yea, end we have suffered this many years in
the land, •.-.y*
BOOK OF M0S1AH. 189
And now I, Zeniff, after having told all these things
unto my people concerning the Lamanites, I didstim*
ulate them to go to battle with their might, putting
their trust in the Lord; therefore; we did contend
with them, face to face. And it came to pass that we
did drive them again out of our land; and we slew
them with a great slaugh ter, even so many that we
did not number them. ;
And it came to pass that we returned again to our own
land, and my people again bega n to tend their flocks,
and to till their ground. And now, I being old* did i
confer the kingdom upon one of my sons; therefore, I *
say no more. And may the Lord bless my people.—
Amen.
CHAPTER VH.
And now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the
kingdom upon Noah, one of his sons; therefore Noah
began to reign in his stead; and he did not walk in
the ways of his father. For behold, he did not keep
the commandments of God, but he did walk after the
desires of his own heart. And he had many wives
and concubines. And he did cause his people to com­
mit sin, and do that which was abominable in the sight
of the Lord. Yea, and they did commit whoredoms,
and all manner of wickedness. And he laid a tax of
one fifth part of ull they possessed; a fifth part of their .
gold and of their silver, and a fifth part of their ziff, ’
and of their copper, and of their brass and their iron; .1
and a fifth part of their fallings; and also, a fifth part ’
of all their grain. And all this did betake, to support
himself, and his wives, and his concubines, and also,
his priests, and their wives, and their concubines; thus
he had changed the affairs of the kingdom. For he
Cut down all the priests that had been consecrated by '•
<
Is father, and consecrated new ones in their stead,-
such as were lifted up in the pride of their hearts.—
Yea, and thus they were supported in their laziness,
and in their idolatry, and in their whoredoms, by the
taxes which king Noah had put upon his peonle; thus *
did,the people* labor exceedingly, to support iniquity.
Yea, .ana they also became idolatrous, ,because they
100 JIOOK OF MOSIAH.
*
were deceived by the vain and flattering words of the
king and priests: for they did speak flattering things
unto them. * t
And it came to pass that king Noah built many ele­
gant and spacious buildings; and he ornamented them
with line work of wood, and of all manner of precious
things, of gold, and of Bilver, and of iron, and of brass,
and ofziff, and ofcopper; and be also built him a spa
cious palace, and a throne in the midst thereof, all of
which was of fine wood, and was ornamented with
gold, and silver, and with precious things. And he
also caused that his workmen should work all manner
of fine work within the walls of the temple, of fine
wood, andof copper, and of brass; and the seats which
were set apart for the high priests, which were above
all the other seats, he did ornament with pure gold;
and he caused a breastwork to be built before them,
that they might rest their bodies and their arms upon,
while they should speak lying and vain words to his
people.
And it came to pass that he built a tower near the
temple; yea, a very high tower, ever so high that he
could stand upon the top thereofand overlook the land
ofShilom, and also the land of Shemlon, which ,was
possessed by tire Lamanites; and he could even look
over all the land round about. ^
And it came to pass that he caused many building?
to be built in the land Shiloru: and he caused a great
tower to be built on the hill north of the land Shilom,
which had been a resort for the children of Nephi, at
the time they fled out of the land; and thus he did do
with the riches which he obtained by the taxation of
his people.1
-
And it came to pass that he -placed his heqrt upon
his riches, and he spent his time in riotous living with
his wives andhis concubines; and so did also his'priests
spend their time with harlots. And it came to pass
that he planted vineyards roundabout in the land; and
he built wine presses, and made v.dne in abundance;
and therefore lie became a wine bibber, and also his
people. t 1
And it came to pass that the Lamanites began to
come in upon liis people, upon small numbers, and to
slay them in their fields, and while they were tending
their flocks. And king Noah sentguards round about
the land to keep them off: but he did not $end a suffi­
cient number, andthe Lamanites come upon them and
BOOK OF MOS1AH. 191
■
i
kilted them,and drove many of their flocks out of the
land: thus the Lamanites began to destroy them, and
to exercise their hatred upon them.
And it came to pass that king Noah sent his armies
against them, and they were driven back, or they
drove them back for a time; therefore, they returned
rejoicing in their spoil. And now, because of this
great victory, they were lifted up id the pride of their
hearts; they did boast in their own strength, saying,
that their fifty could stand against thousands of the
Lamanites; and thus they did boast, and did'delight
in blood, and the shedding of the blood of their bretb-
ren, and this because of the wickedness of their king
and priests. >
And it came to pass that there was a man among
them, whose name was Abinadi; and he went forth
among them, and began to prophesy, saying, behold,
thus saith the Lord, and thus hath he commanded me,
saying, Go forth and say unto this people, thus saith
the Lord; wo be unto this people, for I have seen their
abominations, and their wickedness, and their whore*
dome; and except they repent, I will visit them in
mine anger. And except they repent, and turn to the
Lord their God, behold, I will deliver them into the
hands of their enemies; yea,,and they shall be brought
into bondage; and they shall be afflicted by the hand
of their enemies. And it shall come to pass that they
shall know that I am the Lord their God, and am a
jealous God, visiting the iniquities of my people.—
And it shall come to pass that except this people re­
pent, and turn unto the Lord their God, they shall be
brought into bondage: and none shall deliver them,
except it be the Lord the Almighty God. Yea, and it
shall come to pass that when they shall cry unto me,
I will be slow to hear their cries; yea, ana I will suf­
fer them that they be smitten by their enemies. And
except they repent in sackcloth and ashes, and cry
mightily to the Lord their God, I will not hear their
prayers, neither will I deliver them out of their afflic­
tions; and thus saith the Lord, and thus hath he com­
manded me. a
Now it came to pass that when Abinadi had spoken
these words unto them, they were wroth with him,'
and sought to take-away his life; but the Lord deliv­
ered him out of their hands' Now when king Noah '
had heard of the words which Abinadi had spoken un­
to the people, he was also wroth;^aad he said, who is
192 BOOK OF MOSIAH.'
Abin&di, that I and my people should be judged of
him? or who is the Lord, that shall bring upon my
people such great affliction? I command you to bring
Abinadi hither, that I may slay him: for he has said
these things, that he might stir up my people to anger,
one with another, and to raise contentions among my
people: therefore, I will slay him. Now the eyes of
the people were blinded; therefote, they hardened
their hearts against the words df Abinadi, and they
sought from that time forward to take him, -And
king Noah hardened his heart against the word of the
Lord; and he did not repent of his evil doings.
And it came to pass that after the space of two
years, that Abinadi came among them in disguise, that
they knew him not, and began to prophesy among
them, saying, thus has the Lord commanded me, say­
ing: Abinadi, go and prophesy unto this my people,
for they have hardened their hearts against my words;
they have repented not of their evil doings; therefore,
I will visit them in my anger, yea, in my fierce anger
will I visit them in their iniquities and abominations;
yea, wo be unto this generation. And the Lord said
untome, stretch forth thy hand, and prophesy, saying,
thus saith the Lord: it shall come to pass that this
generation, because of their iniquities, shall be brought
into bondage, and shall be smitten on the cheek: yea,
and shall be driven by men, and shall be slain; and
the vultures of the air, and the dogs, yea, and the wild
beasts, shall devour their flesh. '
And it shall come to pass that the life ofking Noah
shall be valued even as a garment in a hot furnace; for
he shall know that I am the Lord, and it shall come
to pass that Iwill smite this my people with sore afflic­
tions; yea, with famine and with pestilence; and I
will cause that they shall howl all the day long. Tea,
and I will cause that they shall have burdens lashed
upon their backs; and they shall be driven before* like
a dumb ass.
And it shall come to pass that I will send forth hail
among them,:and it shall smite them; and they shall
also be smitten with the east wind: and insects shall
pester their land also, and devour their grain. And
they shall be smitten with a great pestilence: and all
this will I do, because of their iniquities and abomina­
tions. |»F ' ■
And it shall come to'pass that except they repent, I
will utterly destroythem fromoff the faceof the earth;
BOOK O r MOSTAH. 193
yet they shall leave a record behind them, and I will
preserve them for other nations which shall possess
the land; yea, even this will I do, that I may discover
the abominations of this people to other nations. And
many things did Abinadi prophesy against this peo­
ple.
And it came to pass thatthey were angry with him;
ani they took him and carried him bound before the
king, and said unto the king, behold, we have brought
n man before thee who lias prophesied evil concerning
thy people, and saith that God will destroy them; and
he also prophesieth evil concerning thy life, and saith
that thy life shall bo as a garment in a furnace of fire.
And again, he saith that thou shalt be as a stalk, even
as a dry stalk of the field, which is ran over by the
be&9ts and trodden under foot. And again, he saith
thou shalt be as the blossoms of a thistle, which when
it is fully ripe, if the wind blowelh, it is driven forth
upon the face of the land; and he pretendeth the Lord
hath spoken it. And he saith all this shall'come upon
thee, except thou repent; and this because of thine
iniquities.
And now, O king, what great evil hast thou done,
or what great sins have thy people committed, that we
should be condemned of God or judged of this man?—*
And now, O king, behold, we are guiltless, and thou,
O king, hast not sinned; therefore, this man has lied
concerning you, and he has prophesied in vain. And
behold, we are strong, we shall not come into bond­
age, or be taken captive by our enemies; yea, and
thou hast prospered in the land, and thou shalt also
prosper. Behold, here is the man, we deliver him in­
to thy hands; thou mayest do with him as seemeth
thee good. ,
Ana it came to pass that king Noah caused that
Abinadi should be cast into prison; and he command­
ed that the priests should gather themselves together,
that he might hold a council with them what heshould
do with him. And it came to pass that they said un­
to the king, bring him hither, that we may question
him. And the king commanded that he should b?
brought before them. And they-began to question
him, that they might cross him, that thereby they
might have wherewith to accuse him; but he answer­
ed them boldly, and withstood all theirquestions, yea,
to their astonishment: for he did withstand them in
194 BOOK OF MOMA ll.
all their questions, and did confound them in all their
words. .
And it came to pass that one of them said unto him,
what meaneth the words which are written, and which
have been taught by our fathers, saying; how beauti­
ful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bring-
eth good tidings; that publisheth peace; that bringeth
good tidings of good; that publisheth salvation; that
saith unto Zion, thy God reigueth; thy watchmen
shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall
they sing, for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord
shall bring again Zion. Break forth intojoy; sing to­
gether |ye waste places of Jerusalem: lor the Lord
hath comforted his people; he hath redeemed Jerusa­
lem. The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the
eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth
shall see the salvation of our God. And now Abinadi
said unto them, are you priests, and pretend to leach
this people, and to understand the spirit of prophesy­
ing, and yet desire to know of me what these things
mean? I say unto you, wo be unto you for perverting
the ways of the Lord. For if ye understand these
things, ye have not taught them; therefore, ye have
perverted the ways of the Lord. Ye have not applied
your hearts to understanding; therefore, ye have not
been wise. Therefore, what teach ye this people?—
And they said, we teach the law of Moses. And
again, he said unto them, if ye teach the law of Moses,
why do ye not keep it? Why do ye set your hearts
upon riches? Why do ye commit whoredoms, and
spend your strength with harlots, yea, and cause this
people to commit sin, that the Lord has cause to send
me to prophesy against this people, yea, even a great
evil against this people? Know yc not that I speak
the truth? Yea, ye know that I speak the truth; and
you ought to tremble before God. i
And it shall come to pass that ye shall be smitten
for your iniquities: for ye have said that ye teach the
law of Moses. And what know ye concerning the
law of Moses? Doth salvation come by the law of
Moses? What say ye? And they answered and said,
that salvation did come by the law of Moses. But
now Abinadi said unto them, I know if ye keep the
oomtn&ndmenls of God, ye shall be saved; yea, if ye
Keep the commandments which the Lord delivered un­
to Moses in the mount of Sinai, saying: I am the Lord
thy God, who has brought tbee out of the land of
BOOK or MOSfAK. 196
Egypt, oat of the house of bondage. Thou sbalt have
no other God before me. Thou shaft not make unto
thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing
in heaven above, or things which ore in the earth be­
neath. Now Abinadi said unto them, have ye done
all this? I say unto you, nay, ye have not. And
have ye taught this people that they should do all these
things? I say unto you, nay, ye have not.
And now when the king had heard these words, he
said unto his priests, away with this fellow, and slay
him: for what have we to do with him, for he is mad.
And they stood forth and attempted to lay their hands
on him: but he withstood them, and said unto them,
touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your
hands upon me, for I have not delivered the message
which the Lord sent me to deliver: neither have I told
you that which ye requested that I should tell; there-
tore, God will not suffer that I shall be destroyed at
this time. But I must fulfil the commandments where­
with God has commanded me, and because I have told
you the truth, ye are angry with me. And again, be­
cause I have spoken the word of God, ye have judged
me that I am mad.
Now it came to pass after Abinadi had spoken these
words, that the people of king Noah durst not lay
their hands oh him; for the Spirit of the Lord was up­
on him; and his face shone with exceeding lustre, even
as Moses’ did while in the mount of Sinai, while
speaking with the Lord. A,nd he spake with power
and authority from God; ana he continued his words,
saying, ye see that ye have not power to slay me,
therefore I finish my message. Yea, and I perceive
that it cuts you to your hearts, because I tell you the .
truth concerning your iniquities; yea, and my words
fill you with wonder and amazement, and with anger.
But I finish my message; -and then it matters not
whither 1 go, if it so be that I am saved. But this
much I tell you: what you do with me, after this, shall
be as a type and a shadow of things which are to come.
And now I read unto you the remainder of the com­
mandments of God, for 1 perceive that they are not
written in your hearts; I perceive that ye have stud­
ied and taught iniquity the most part of your lives. ,
And now, ye remember that I said unto you, thou '
shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or aiijr*
likeness of things which are in heaven above, or which
ore in the earth beneath, or which are in the water
196 BOOK OF K 03IA H .
under the earth. And again: thou shak not how down
thyselfunto them, nor serve them: fori the Lord thy
God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquities of the
fathers upon the children, unto the third and fourth
generations of them that h&te me; and shewing met-
cy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my
commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the
Lord thy God in vain: for the Lord will not hold him
guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Remember the
sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou la­
bor, and do all thy work; but the seventh day, the
sabbath of the Lord thy God, thou shalt not do any
work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man­
servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy
stranger that ib within thy gates: for in six days the
Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea and all that
in them is; wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath
day, and hallowed it. Honor thy father and thy moth­
er, that thy days may be long upon the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill.—
Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not
steak Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy
neighbor. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house,
thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor his man­
servant, nor his 'maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass,
nor any thing that is thy neighbor’s.
CHAPTER VIII.
>
,
And it came to pass that after Abinadi had made an
end of these sayings, that he said unto them, have ye
taught this people that they should observe to do all
these things? for to keep these commandments? I say
unto you, nay; for ifye had, the Lord would not have
caused me to come forth and to prophesy evil concern­
ing this people. And now ye have said that salvation
cometh by the law of Moses. I say nnto you that it
is expedient that ye should keep the law of Moses as
yet; but I say unto you, that the time shall come
when it shall no more be expedient to keep the law of
Moses. And moreover, I say unto you, that salvation
doth not come by the law alone; and were it not for
the atonement which God himself shall make for the
BOOK o r M 05IAH. 197
sins and iniquities of his people, that they must una­
voidably perish, notwithstanding the law of Moses.—■
And now I say unto you, that it was expedient that
there should be a law given to the children of Israel,
yea, even a very strict law; for they were a stiffneck­
ed people: quick to do iniquity, and slow to remem­
ber the Lord their God; therefore there was a law giv­
en them, yea, a law of performances and of ordinan­
ces, a law which they were to observe strictly, from
day to day, to keep them m remembrance of God, and
their duty towards him. But behold, I say unto you,
that all these things were types of things to come.—
And now, did they understand the law! I say Unto
you, nay, they did not all understand the law; and
this because of the hardness of their hearts; for they
understood not that there could not any man be saved,
except it were through the redemption of God. For
behold, did not Moses prophesy unto them concerning
the coming of the Messiah, and that God should re­
deem his people, yea, and even all the prophets who
have prophesied ever since the world began? Have
they not spoken more or less concerning these things?
Have they not said that God hiuiself should come
down among the children of men, and take upon him
the form of man, and go forth in mighty power upon
the face of the earth? Yea, and have they not said
also, that he should'bring to pass the resurrection of
the dead, and that he, himself, should be oppressed
and afflicted? Yea, even doth not Isaiah say, who
hath believed our report, and to whom is the arm of
the Lord revealed? for he shall grow up before him as
a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground: he
hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see
him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.—
He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows,
and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our
face from him; he was despised, and we esteemed
him not.
Surely he has borne our griefs, and carried our sor­
rows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God,
and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgres­
sions, he was bruised for-our iniquities; thecliatise-
ment of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes
we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray;
we have turned every one to his own way; and the
Lord hath laid on him the iniquities of us all. He was >
oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his
193 BOOK OF MOSIAH?
mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and
as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he opened
not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from
judgment: and who shall declare his generation! for
he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the
transgressions of my people was he stricken. And he
made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in
his death; because he had done no evil, neither was
any deceit in his mouth.
Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him; he hath put
him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offer*
ing for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his
days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his
hand. He shall see ofthe travail of his soul, and shall
be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous ser­
vant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities.—
Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great,
and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because
he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was
numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sins
of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.
And now Abinadi said unto them, 1 would that ye
should understand that God himself shall come down
among the children of men, and shall redeem his peo­
ple; and because he dwelleth in flesh, he shall be call­
ed the Son of God: and having subjected the flesh to
the will of the Father, being the Father and the Son;
the Father, because he was conceived by the power of
God; and the Sou, because of the flesh; thus becom­
ing the Father and Son; and they are one God, yea,
the very eternal Father of heaven and of earth; and
thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the
Son to the Father, being one God, suffereth tempta­
tion, and yieldeth not to the temptation, but suffereth
himself to be mocked, and scourged, and cast out, and
disowned by his people. And after all this, after
working many mighty miracles among the children
of men, he shall be led, yea, even as Isaiah said, as a
sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his
mouth; yea, even so he sliall be led, crucified and
slain, the flesh becoming subject even unto death, the
will of the Son being swallowed up in the will of the
Father; and thus God breaketh the bands of death;
having gained the victory over death; giving the Son
power to make intercession for the chUdreo of men:
having ascended into heaven; having the bowels of
mercy; being filled with compassion toward the child-
BOOK OF MO&AH.
renof men; standing betwixt them and justice; having
broken the bands of death, taken upon himself their
iniquity and their transgressions; having redeemed
them, and satisfied the demands ofjustice. And now
I say unto you, who shall declare his generation?—
Behold, I say unto you, that when his soul has been
made an offering for sin, he shall see his seed. And
now what say ye? And who shall be his seed? Be­
hold I say unto you, that whosoever has heard the
words of the prophets, yea, all the holy prophets who
have prophesied concerning the coming of the Lord; I
say unto you, that all those who have hearkened unto
their words, and believed that the Lord would redeem
his people, arid have looked forward to that day for a
remission of their sins; I say unto you, that these are
his seed, or they are heirs of the kingdom of God: for
these are they whose sins he has borne; these are they
for whom he has died, to redeem them from their
transgressions. And now, are they not his seed?—
Yea, and are not the prophets, every one that has
opened his mouth to prophesy, that has not fallen in­
to transgression; I mean all the holy prophets ever
since the world began? I say unto you that they are
his seed; and these are they who have published peace,
who have brought good tidings of good, who have
published salvation; and said unto Zion, thy God
reigneth! And O how beautiful upon' the mountains
were their feet! And again, how beautiful upon the
mountains are the feet of those that are still publishing
peace! And again, how beautiful upon the mountains
are the feet of those who shall hereafter publish peace,
yea, from this time henceforth and forever! Arid be­
hold, I say unto you, this is not ail: For O how beau­
tiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that
bringeth good tidings, that is the founder of peace;
S
ea, even the Lord, who has redeemed his’people; yea,
im who has granted salvation unto his people: for
were it not for the redemption which he hath made
for his' people, which was prepared from the founda­
tion of the world; I say unto you, were it not for this,
all mankind must have perished. But behold, the
bands of death shall be broken, and the Son reigneth,
and hath power over the dead; therefore, he briiigeth
to pass the resurrection of the dead. And there com-
eth a resurrection, even a first resurrection;' yea, even
a resurrection of those that have been, and who are,
and who shall be, even until the resurrection of Gbriet:
m
2 0 0 BOOK OF MOSUH.
for so shall he be called. -And now, the resurrection
of all the prophets, and all those that have believed in
their words, or all those that have kept the command­
ments of God, shall come forth in the first resurrec­
tion; therefore, they are the first resurrection. They
are raised to dwell with God who hits redeemed them:
thus they have eternal life through Christ, who has
broken the hands of death. And these are those who
have part in the first resurrection; and these are they
that have died before Christ came, in their ignorance,
not having salvation declared unto them. And thus
the Lord bringeth about the restoration of these; and
they have a part in the first resurrection, or have eter­
nal life, being redeemed by the Lord. And little chil­
dren also have eternal life. But behold, and fear, and
tremble before God; for ye ought to tremble: for the
Lord redeemelh none such that rebel against him,
1 and die in their sins; yea, even all those that have
perished in their sins ever since the world began, that
have wilfully rebelled against God, that have known
the commandments of God, and would not keep them;
these are they that have no part in the first resurrec­
tion. Therefore had ye not ought to tremble? For
salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath re­
deemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem
such: for he cannot deny himself; for he cannot de­
ny justice when it has its claim.
And now I say unto you, that the time shall come
that the salvation of the Lord shall be declared to eve­
ry nation, kindred, tongue, and people. Yea, Lord,
thy watchmen shall lift up their voice; with the voice
together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye,
when the Lord shall bring again Zion. Break forth
into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem:
for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath re­
deemed Jerusalem. The Lord hath made bare his ho­
ly arm in the eyes of all the nations: and all the ends
of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
And now it came to pass that after Abinadi had spo­
ken these words, he stretched forth his hand and said,
the time shall come when all shall see the salvation of
the Lord; when every nation, kindred, tongue and
people, shall see eye to eye, and shall confess before
God that his judgments are just; and then shall the
wicked be cast out, and they shall have cause to howl,
and weep, and wail, and gnash their teeth; and this
bssaose they would not hearken unto the voice of the
BOOK OF MOS1AH. 20fc
Lord; therefore the Lord redeeraeth them not, for they
are carnal and devlish, and the devil has power over
them; yea, even that old serpent that did beguile our
first parents, which was the cause of their fall; which
was the cause ofall mankind becoming carnal, sensual,
devlish, knowing evil from good, subjecting themselves
to the devil. Thus all mankind were lost; and behold,
they would have been endlessly lost, were it not that
God redeemed his people from their lost and fallen
state. But remember, that lie that persists in his own
carnal nature, and goes on in the ways of sin and re­
bellion against God, remaineth in bis fallen state, and
the devil hath all power over him. Therefore lie is as
though there was no redemption made; being an ene­
my to God; and also is the devil an enemy to God.—
And now if Christ had not come into the world, speak­
ing of things to come, as though they had already
come, there could have been no redemption. And if
Christ had not risen from the dead, or have broken the
bands of death, that the grave should have no victory,
and that death should have no sting, there could have
been no resurrection. But there is a resurrection,
therefore the grave hath no victory, and the sling ot
death is swallowed up in Christ: He is the light and
the life of the world; yea, a light that is endless, that
can never be darkened; yea, and also a life which is
endless, that there can be no more death. Even this
mortal shall put on immortality, and this'corruption
shall put on incorruption, and shall he brought to stand
before the bar of God, to be judged of him according
to their works, whether they be good or whether they
be evil. If they be good, to the resurrection of end­
less life and happiness, and if they be evil, to the res­
urrection of endless damnation; being delivered up to
the devil, who hath subjected them, which is damna­
tion; having gone according to their own carnal wills
and desires; having never called upon the Lord while
the arms of mercy were extended towards them; for;
the arms of mercy were extended towards them, and
they would not; they being warned of their iniquities,
and yet they would not depart from them; and they
were commanded to repent, and yet they would not
repent And now had ye not ought to tremble and
repent of your sins, and remember only in and through
Christ ye can be saved1 Therefore, if ye teach the
law of Moses, also teach that it is a shadow of those
0
202 b o o k o f m o s ia h .
things which are to come; teach them that redemption
cometh through Christ the Lord, who is the very eter­
nal Father. Amen.
CHAPTER IX.
Akd now it came to pass that when Abinadi had fin­
ished these sayings, that the king commanded that the
priests should take him and cause that be should be
put to death. But there was one among them, whose
name was Alnia, he also being a descendant of Nephi.
And he was a young man, and he believed the words
which Abinadi had spoken, for he knew concerning
the iniquity which Abinadi had testified against them;
Therefore he began to plead with the king that he
would not be angry with Abinadi, but suffer that he
might depart in peace. But the king was more wroth,
and caused that Alma should be cast out from among
them, and sent his servants after him, that they might
slay him. But he fied from before them, and hid him­
self, that they found him not. And he, being conceal­
ed for many days, did write all the words which Abin­
adi bad spoken. !
-
And it came to pass that the king caused that his
guards should surround Abinadi, and take him; and
they bound him and cast him into prison. And after
three days, having counselled with his priests, he caus­
ed that he should again be brought before him. And
he said unto him, Abinadi, we have found an accusa­
tion against thee, and thou art worthy of death. For
thou lias said that God himself should come down
among the children of men; and now for this cause
thou shalt be put to death, unless thou wilt recall all
the words which thou hast spoken evil concerning me
and my people. 1
Now Abinadi said unto him: I say unto you, I will
not recall the words which I have spoken unto yon
concerning tiiis people, for they are true; and that ye
may know of their surety, I hare suffered myself that
I have fallen into your bands. Yea, and I swill suffer
even until death, and I will not recall my words, and
they shall stand as a testimony against you.'' And if
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 203
ye slay me, ye will shed innocent blood, and this shall
also stand as a testimony against you at the last day.
And now king Noah was about to release him, for
he feared his word; for he feared that the judgments
of God would come upon him, But the priests lifted
up their voices against him, and began to accuse him, -
saying: He has reviled the king. Therefore the
king was stirred up in anger against him, and he de­
livered him up, that he might be slain.
And it came to pass that they took him, and scourg­
ed his skin with fhggols, yea, even unto death. And
now when the flames began to scorch him, he cried
unto them saying: Behold, even as ye have done unto
me, so shall it come to pass that thy seed shall cause
that many shall suffer, even the pains of death, by fire;
and this because they believe in the salvation of the
Lord their God. And it will come to pass that ye
shall be afflicted with all manner of diseases, because of
your iniquities. Yea and ye shall be smitten on every
hand, and shall be driven and scattered to and fro,’even
as a wild flock is driven by wild and ferocious beasts.
And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye shall be
taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall
suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire. Thus Gcd
executeth vengeance upon those that destroy his people.
O God, receive my soul. And now when Abinadi had
said these words, he fell, having suffered death by fire;
yea, having been put to death-because he would not
deny the commandments of God: having sealed the
truth of his words by his death.
And now that it came to pass that Alina, who had
fled from the servants of king Noah, repented of his
sins and iniquities, and went about privately among
the people, and began to teach the words of Abinadi;
yea, concerning that which was to come, and also
concerning the resurrection of the dead, and the re­
demption of the people, which was to be brought'to
pass through the power, and sufferings, and death of
Christ, and his lesurrection and ascension into heaven.
And as many as would hear his word he did teach.
And he taught them privately, that it might not come
to the knowledge of the king. And many did believe
his words. And it came to pass that as many as did
believe him, did go forth to a place which was called
Mormon, having received its name from the king, be­
ing in the borders of the land having been infested,- by
times, or at seasons, by wild beasts. Now there was
204 BOOK OB HOSIAH.
in Mormon a fountain of pure water, and Alma re­
sorted thither, there being near the water a thicket of
email trees, where he did hide lumself in the day-time,
from the searches of the king. And it came to pass
that as many as believed him, went thither to bear
his words. And it came to pass after many days,
there were a goodly number gathered together to the
place of Mormon, to hear the words of Alma. Yea
all were gathered together that believed on his word,
to hear him. And he did teach them,-and did preach
unto them repentance, and redemption, and faith on
the Lord.
And it came to pass that he said unto them, behold,
here are the waters of Mormon; for thus were they
called. And now, as ye are desirous to come into the
fold of God, and to be called his people, and are will­
ing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be
light; yea, and are willing to mourn with those that
mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of
comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times,
and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in,
even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God,
and he numbered with those of the first resurrection,
that ye may have eternal life: Now I say unto you,
if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you
against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a
witness before him that ye have entered into a cove­
nant with him that ye will serve him and keep his
commandments! that lie may pour out his spirit more
abundantly upon you. And now when the people *
had heard these words, they clapped their hands for
joy, and exclaimed, tins is the desire of our hearts.
And now it came to pass that Alma took Helam,
he being one of the first, and went and stood forth in
the water, and cried, saying, O Lord, pour out thy
spirit upon thy servant, that he may do this work
with holiness of heart. And when he had said these
words, the spirit of the Lord was upon him, and he j
said, Helam, I baptize thee, having authority from the
Almighty God, as a testimony that ye have entered j
into a covenant to serve him until you are dead, as to
the mortal body; and may the spirit of the Lord be
poured out upon you; and may he grant unto you
eternal life, through the redemption of Christ, whom
he has prepared from the foundation of the world.—
And after Alma had said these words, both Alma and
Helam were buried in the water; and they aroae and
BOOK or KOSIAK. 203
came forth out of the water rejoicing, being filled with
the spirit. And again, Alma took another, and went
forth a second time into the water, and baptized him
according to the first, only he did not bury himself
again in the water. Ana after this manner he did
baptize every one that went forth to the place of Mor­
mon: and they were in number about two hundred
and four souls; yea, and they were baptized in the
waters of Mormon, and were filled with the grace of
God: and they were called the church of God, or the
church of Christ, from that time forward.
And it came to pass that whosoever was baptized
by the power and authority of God, was added to his
church.
And it came to pass that Alma, having authority
from God, ordained priests; even one priest to every
fifty of their number did he ordain to preach unto
them, and to teach them concerning the things per­
taining to the kingdom of God. And he commanded
them that they should teach nothing save it were the
things which lie had tanght, and which had been
spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets. Yea, even
he commanded them that they should preach nothing
save it were repentance and faith on the Lord, who
had redeemed liis people. And he commanded them
that there should be no contention one with another,
but that they should look forward with one eye, hav­
ing one faith and one baptism; having their hearts
knit together in unity and in love, one towards anoth­
er. And thus he commanded them to preach. And
thus they became the children of God. And he com­
manded them that they should observe the Sabbath
day, and keep it holy, and also every day they should
give thanks to the Lord their God. And he also
commanded them that the priests whom he had or­
dained should labor with their own hands for their
support; and there was one day in every week that
was set apart that they should gather themsel ves to­
gether to teach the people, and to worship the Lord
their God, and also as often as it was in their, power,
to assemble themselves together. And the priests
were not to depend upon the people for their support;
but for their labor they were to receive the grace of
God, that they might wax strong in the spirit, having
the knowledge of God, that they might teach with
power and authority from God. - And again Alma
commanded that the people of the church should im­
206 BOOK OF MOSIAK.
part of their substance, every one according to that
which he had; if he have more abundantly, lie should*
impart more abundantly; and he that had but little,
but little Bhould be required; and to him that had not
should be given. And thus they should impart of
their substance, of their own free will and good de­
sires towards God, antd to those priests that stood in
need, yea, and to every needy, naked soul. And this
he said unto them, having been commanded of God;
and they did walk uprightly before God, imparting to
one another, both temporally and spiritually, according
to their needs and their wants.
And now it came to pass that all this was done in
Mormon; yea, by the waters of Mormon, in the for­
est that was near the waters of Mormon: yea, the
place of Mormon, the waters of Mormon, the forest
of Mormon, how beautiful are they to the eyes of them
who there came to the knowledge of their Redeemer;
yea, and how blessed are they; for they shall sing to
his praise forever. And these things were done in
the borders of the land, that they might not come to
the knowledge of the king. But behold, it came to
pass that the king, having discovered a movement
among the people, sent his servants to watch them,—
Therefore on the day that they were assembling them­
selves together to hear the word of the Lord, they
were discovered unto the king. And now the king
said that Alma was stirring up the people to rebellion
against him; therefore he sent his army to destroy
them. And it came to pass that Alma, and the peo­
ple of the Lord were apprised of the coming of the
king’s army; therefore they took their tents and their
families and departed into the wilderness. And they
were in number about four hundred and fifty souls.
And it came to pass that the army of the king re­
turned, having searched in vain for the people of the
Lord. And now behold, the forces of the king were
small, having been reduced, and there began to be a
division among the remainder of the people. And the
lesser part began to breathe out threatnings against
the king, and there began to be a great contention
among them. And now there was a man among
them whose name was Gideon, and he being a strong
man, and an enemy to the king, therefore he drew his
sword and swore in his wrath, that he would slay the
king. And it came to pass that he fought with the
king; and when the king saw that he was aboutto
BOOK OF MOSIAH.
overpower him, he fled and ran and got upon the tow­
er, which was near the temple. And Gideon pursued
after him and was about to get upon the tower to slay
the king, and the king cast his eyes round about to­
wards the land of Shemlon, and behold, the army of
the Lainanites were within the borders of the land.
And now the king cried out in the anguish of his soul,
saying, Gideon, spare me, for the Lamanites are upon
us, and they will destroy them: yea, they will des­
troy my people. And now the king was not so much
concerned about his people, as he was about his own
life; nevertheless, Gideon did spare his life. And the
king commanded the people that they should flee be­
fore the Lamanites, and he himself did go before them*
and they did flee into the wilderness with their wo­
men and their children. And it came to pass that
the Lamanites did pursue them, and did overtake
them, and began to slay them.
Now it came to pass that the king commanded
them that all the men should leave their wives and
their children, and flee before the Lamanites. Now
there were many that would not leave them, but had
rather stay and perish with them. And the rest left
their wives and their children and fled.
And it came to pass that those who tarried with
their wives and their children, caused that their fair
daughters should stand forth and plead with the La-
manites, that they would not slay them. And it
came to pass Uiat the Lamanites had compassion on
them, for they-were charmed with the beauty of their
women; therefore the Lamanites did spare their lives,
and took them captives, and carried them back to the
land of Neplh, and granted unto them that they might
possess the land, under the conditions that they would
deliver up king Noah into the hands of the Lamanites,
and deliver up their property, even one halfvof all
they possessed; one half of their gold, and their sil­
ver, and all their precious things; and thus they
should pay tribute to the king of the Lamanites, from
year to year. And now there was one of the sons of
the king among those that were taken captive, whose
name was Limhi. And now Limhi was desirous that
his father should not be destroyed; nevertheless, Lim­
hi was not ignorant of the iniquities of his father, he
himself, being a just man. j ^ w
And it came to pass that Gideon sent men into the
wilderness secretly, to search for the king, and those
2071
208 BOOK OF HOS1AH.
that were with him. And it came to pass that they
met the people in the wilderness, all save the king and
his priests. Now they had sworn in their hearts that
they would return to the land of Nephi, and if their
wives and their children were slain, and also those
that had tarried with them, that they would seek re­
venge, and also perish with them. And the king
commanded them that they should not return; and
they were angry with the king, and caused that he
should suffer, even unto death by lire. And they
were about to take the priests also and put them to
death, and they fled before them.
And it came to pass that they were about to return
to the land of Nephi, and they met the men of Gid­
eon. And the men of Gideon told them of all that
had happened to their wives and their children; and
that the Lamanites had granted unto them that they
might possess the land, bv paying a tribute to the La-
manites of one half of aft they possessed. And the
people told the men of Gideon that they had slain the
king, and his priests had fled from them farther into
the wilderness. And it came to pass that alter they
had ended the ceremony, that they returned to the
land of Nephi, rejoicing, because their wives and their
children were not slain; and they told Gideon what
they had done to the king.
And it came to pass that the king of the Lainanites
made an oath unto them, that his people should not
slay them. And also Limhi, being the son of the
king, having the kingdom conferred upon him by the
people, made oath unto the king of the Lamanites,
that his people should pay tribute unto him, even one
half of all they possessed.
And it came to pass that Limhi began to establish
the kingdom, and to establish peace among his people.
And the king of the Lamanites set guards round
about the land, that he might keep the people of
Litnhl in the land, that they might notdepart into the 1
wilderness; and he did support his guards out of the
tribute which lie did receive from the Nephites. And
now king Limhi did have continual peace in his king­
dom, for the space of two years, that the Lamanites
did not molest them nor seek to destroy them.
Now there was a place in Stiemlon, where the
daughters of the Lamanites did*gather themselves to­
gether to sing, and to dance, and to make themselves
merry. Ana it came to pass that there was one day
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 200
a small number of them gathered together to sing and
to dance. And now the priests of King Noah, being
ashamed to return to the city of Nephi, yea, and also
fearing that the people would slay them, therefore
they durst not return to their wives and their chil­
dren. And having tarried in the wilderness, and hav­
ing discovered the daughters of the Lamanites, they
laid and watched then); and when there were but few
of tliem gathered together to dance, they came forth
out of their secret places, and took them and carried
them into the wilderness; yea, twenty and four of the
daughters of tire Lamanites they earned into the wild­
erness. v
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites found
that their daughters had been missing, they were an­
gry with the people of Lirnhi; for they thought it was
the people of Limbi. Therefore they sent their ar­
mies forth; yea, even the king himself went before
his people; and they went up to the land of Nephi,
to destroy the people of Lirnhi. And now Limhi had
discovered them from the tower; even all their pre­
parations for war did he discover; therefore he gath­
ered his people together, and laid wait for them in the
fields, and in the forests. And it came to pass that
when the Lamanites had come up, that the people of
Limhi began to fall upon them from their waiting
places, and began to slay them.
And it came to pass that the battle became exceed­
ing sore, for they fought like lions for their prey.—
And it came to pass that the people of Limlii began
to drive the Lamanites before them, yet they were
not half so numerous as the Lamanites. But they
fought for their lives, and for their wives, and for
their children; therefore they exerted themselves, and
like dragons did they fight.
And it came to pass that they found the king of the
Lamanites among the number of their dead; yet he
was not dead, having been wounded and led upon the
ground, so speedy was the Sight of his people. And
they took him and bound up his wounds, and brought
him before Limhi, and said, behold, here is the Hug
of the Lamanites; he having received a wound, has
fallen among their dead, and they have left him; and
behold, we nave brought him before you; and now let
us slay him. But Limhi said unto them, ye shall not
slay him, but bring him hither, that I may teet,him.
21 0 BOOK OP HOSIAH.
I
And they brought him. And Limbi said unto him,
what cause have ye to come up to war against my
people! Behold, my people have not broken the oath
that I made unto you; therefore, why should ye break
the oath which ye made unto my people! And now
the king said, i have broken the oath, because thy
people aid carry away the daughters of iny people;
therefore in my anger I did cause iny people to come
up to war against thy people. Now Limhi had heard
nothing concerning this matter: therefore he said, I
will search among my people, and whosoever has
done this thing shall perish. Therefore he caused a
search to be made among his people. Now when
Gideon had heard these things, he being the king’s
captain, he went forth and said unto the king, I pray
thee forbear, and do not search this people, and lay
ytol this thing to their charge. For do ye not remem­
ber the priests of thy father, whom this people sought
to destroy! And are they not in the wilderness! And
are not they the ones who have stolen the daughters
of the Larnanites! And now behold, and tell the
king of these things, that lie may tell his people, that
they may be pacified towards us: for behold they are
already preparing to come against us; and behold al­
so, there are but few of us. And behold, they come
with their numerous hosts; and except the king doth
pacify them towards us, we must perish. For are not
the words of Abinadi fulfilled, which he prophesied
against ns! and all this because we would not heark­
en unto the word of the Lord, and turn from our in­
iquities? And now let us pacify the king, and we
fulfil the oath which we have made unto him; for it
is better that we should be in bondage, than that we
■should lose our lives; therefore, let us put a stop to
the shedding of so much blood. And now Limhi told
the king all the things concerning his father, and the
priests that had fled into the wilderness, and attributed
the carrying away of their daughters to them.
And it came to pass that the king was pacified to­
wards his people; and he said unto them, let us go
forth to meet my people, without arms; and 1swear
unto you with an oath, that my people shall not slay
thy people. And it came to pass that they followed
the king, and went forth without arms to meet the
Larnanites. And it came to pass that they did meet
the Larnanites; and the king of'the Larnanites did
bow himself down before them, and did plead in be­
BOOK or MOStAH. 2 1 1
half erfthe people of Limbi. And when the Laman-
ites saw the people of Limhi, that they were without
arms, they had compassion on them, and were paci­
fied towards them, and returned with their king in
peace to their own land.
And it came to pass that Limhi and his people re­
turned to the city of Nephi, nnd began to dwell in the
land again in peace. And it came to pass that after
many days, the Lainauiles began again to be stii red
up in anger against the Nephites; and they began to
come into the borders of the land round about. Now
they durst not slay them, because of the oath which
their king had made unto Limhi; but they would smite
them on their cheeks, and exercise authority over them;
and began to put heavy burdens upon their backs, and
drive them as they would a dumb ass; yea, all this
was done, that the word of the Lord might befulfilled.
And now the afflictions of the Nephites were great;
and there was no way that they could deliver them­
selves out of their hands, for the Lamanites had sur­
rounded them on every side.
And it came to pass that the people began to mur­
mur with the king, because of their afflictions; and
they began to be desirous to go against them to battle.
And they did afflict the king sorely with their com­
plaints; therefore he granted unto them that they
should do according to their desires. And they gath­
ered themselves together again, and put on their ar­
mour, and went forth against the Lamanites, to drive
them out of their land. And it came to pass that the
Lamanites did beat them, and drove them back, and
slew many of them. And now there was a great
mourning and lamentation among the people of Lim­
hi; the widow mourning for her husband; the son and
the daughter mourning for their father; and the broth­
ers for their brethren. Now there were a great many
widows in the land; and they did cry mightily from
day to day, for a great fear of the Lamanites had come
upon them. And it came to pass that their continual
cries did 3tir up the remainder of the people of Limhi
to anger, against the Lamanites. And they went
again to battle; but they were driven back again, suf­
fering much loss. Yea, they went again, even the
third time, and suffered in the like manner; and those
that were not slain, returned again to the city of Ne-
phi. And they did humble themselves even to the
dust, subjecting themselves to the yoke of bondage.
b o o k o f M 0 J1 4 H .
submitting themselves to be smitten, and to be driven
to and fro, and burdened, according to the desires of
their enemies. And they did humble themselves even
in the depths of humility; and they did cry mightily
to God; yea, even all the day long did they cry unto
their God, that he would deliver them out of their af­
flictions. And now the Lord was slow to hear their
cry, because of their iniquities; nevertheless the Lord
did hear their cries, and began to soflen the hearts of
the Lanmnites, that they began to ease their burdens:
yet the Lord did not see tit to deliver them out of
bondage.
And it came to pass that they began to prosper by
degrees in the land, and began to raise grain more
abundantly, and docks, and herds, that they did not
suffer with hunger. Now there was a great number of
women more than there was of men; therefore king
Limhi commanded that every man should impart to
the support of the widows and their children, that they
might not perish with hunger; and this they did, be­
cause of the greatness of their number that had been
slain. Now the people of Limhi kept together in a
body as much as it was possible, and secure their grain,
and their docks; and the king himselfdid not trust his
person without the walls of the city, unless he took
his guards with him, fearing that he might by some
means fall into the hands of the Lanmnites. And he
caused that his people should watch the land round
about, that by some means they might take those
priests that fled into the wilderness, who had stolen
the daughters of the Lamanites, and that had caused
such a great destruction to come upon them; for they
were desirous to take them, that they might punish
them: for they had* come into the land of Nephi by
night, and carried off their grain, and many of their
precious things; therefore they laid wait for them.
And it came to pass that there was no more disturb­
ance between the Lamanites and the people of Limbi,
even until the time that Ammon and his brethren
came into the land. And the king having been with­
out the gates of the city with his guard, discovered
Ammon and his brethren; and supposing them to be
priests of Noah, therefore he caused that they should
be taken, and bound, and cast into prison. And had
they been the priests of Noah, he would have caused
that they should be put to death; but-when he found
that they were not, but that they were hisbrethren.
212
BOOK O r M031AH. 213
and had come from the land of Zarahemla, he was
filled with exceeding great joy. Now king Limbi had
sent, previous to the coining of Ammon, a small num­
ber of inen to search for the land of Zarahemla; but
they could not find it; and they were lost in the wilder­
ness. Nevertheless they did find a land which had
been peopled; yea, a land which was covered with dry
bones; yea, a land which had been peopled, and which
had been destroyed; and they having supposed it to be
the land of Zarahemla, returned to the land of Neplii,
having arrived in the borders of the land not many
days before the coming of Ammon. And they brought
a record with them, even a record of the people whose
bones they had found; and they were engraven on
plates of ore. And now Limbi was again filled with
joy, on learning from the mouth of Ammon that king
Mosiah had a gift from God, whereby he could inter­
pret such engravings; yea, and Ammon also did rejoice.
Yet Ammon and his brethren were filled with sorrow,
because so many of their brethren had been slain; and
also that king Noah and his priests bad caused the peo­
ple to commit so many sins and iniquities against God;
and they also did mourn for the death of Abinadi; and
also for the departure of Alma, and the people that
went with him, who had formed a church, of God
through the strength and power of God, and faith on
the words which had been spoken by Abinadi; yea,
they did mourn for their departure, for they knew not
whither they had fled. Now they would have gladly
joined with them, for they themselves had entered into
a covenant with God, to serve him, and keep his com­
mandments; And now since the coining of Ammon
king Limbi had also entered into a covenant with God,
and also many of lus people, to serve him, and keep
his commandments. ’
And it came to pass that king Limhi and many of
his people were desirous to be baptized; but there was
none in the land that had authority from God. And
Ammon declined doing this thing, considering himself
an unworthy servant; therefore they did not at that
time form themselves into a church, waiting upon the
spirit of the Lord. Now they were desirous to become
even as Alma and his brethren, who had fled into the
wilderness. They were desirous to be baptized, as a
witness and a testimony that they were willing to
serve God with all their hearts; nevertheless they did
prolong the time; and an account of their baptism shall
214 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
be given hereafter. And now all the study of Ammon
and his people, and king Limbi and hie people, was
to deliver themselves out of the hands of the Lam&n-
iles, and from bondage.
CHAPTER X.
Am>now it came to pass that Ammon and king Lim­
bi began to consult with the people how they should
deliver themselves out of bondage; and even they did
cause that alt the people should gather themselves to­
gether: and this they did that they might have the voice
of the people concerning the matter. And it came
to pass that they could find no* way to deliver them­
selves out of bondage, except it were to take their wo­
men and children, and their flocks, and their herds, and
their Lents, and depart into the wilderness: for the La-
manilcs being so numerous that it was impossible for
the people oi Limhi to contend with them, thinking
to deliver themselves out of bondage by the sword.
Now it came to pass that Gideon went forth and
stood before the king, and said unto him, now O king,
thou hast hitherto hearkened unto my words many
times when we have been contending with our breth­
ren, the Lamanites. And now O king, if thou hast
not found me to be an unprofitable servant, or if thou
hast hitherto listened to my words in any degree, and
they have been of service to thee, even so I desire that
thou wouldst listen to my words at this time, and I
will be thy servant, and deliver this people out of*
bondage. And the kinj* granted unto him that he might
speak. And Gideon said unto him, behold the back pass
through the back wall, on the back side of the city.
The Lamanites, or the guards of the Lamanites, by
night, are drunken; therefore let'iis send a proclama­
tion among all this people, that they gather together
their flocks and herds, that they may drive them into
the wilderness by night. And I will go according to
thy command, and pay the last tribute of wine to
the Lamanites, and they will be drunken; and we
will pass through the secret pass on the left of the
camp, when they are drunken and asleep: thus we,will
depart with our womenaud our children, our flocks
BOOK 0 7 HOS1AH. 31$
and our herds, into the wilderness; and we will travel
around the land of Shilom. And it came to pass that
the king hearkened unto the words of Gideon. And
king Limhi caused that his people should gather their
docks together; and he sent the tribute of wine to the *
Lamanites; and he also sent more wine, as a present
unto them: and they did drink freely of the wine which
Icing Limhi did send unto them. <
And it came to pass that the people of king Limhi
did depart by night into the wilderness with theirdocks
And their herds, and they went round about the land
jof Shilom in the wilderness, and bent their course to­
wards the land of Zarahemla, being led by Ammon
And his brethren. And they had taken all their gold,
And silver, and their precious things, which they could
carry; and also their provisions with them, into the
wilderness; and they pursued their journey. And af­
ter being many days in the wildesness, they arrived in
the land of Zarahemla, and joined his people, and be­
came his subjects. And it came to pass that Mosiah
feceived them with joy; and he also received their
Records, and also the records which had been found by
the people of Limhi. And now it came to pass when
the Lamanites had found that the people of Lim­
hi had departed out of the land by night, that they
sent an army into the wilderness to pursue them; and
after they had pursued them two days, they could no
longer follow their tracks; therefore they were lost in
the wilderness.
CHAPTER XI.
T
.
An account of Alma and the people of the Lord,, who
were driven into the wilderness by the people of king
Noah.
f
Now Alma, having been warned of the Lord that the
armies of king Noah would come upon them, and had
made it known to his people, therefore they gathered
together their flocks, and took of their gram, and de-
Sarted into the wilderness before the armies of king
foah. <And the Lord did strengthen them,, that the
people of king Noah could not overtake them, to de­
BOOK OF ttO SIA H .'
stroy them. And they fled eight days' journey into
the wilderness. And they came to a land, yea, even
a very beautiful and pleasant land; a.land of pure
water. And they pitched their tents, and began to
till the ground, and began to build buildings, &c.;
yea, they were industrious, and did labor exceedingly.
And the people were desirous that Alma should be
their king, for he was beloved by bis people. But he
said unto them, behold, it is not expedient that we
should have a king; for thus saith, the Lord: Ye
shall not esteem one flesh above another, or one man
shall not think himself above another; therefore I say
unto you, it is not expedient that ye should have a
king. Nevertheless, if it were possible that ye could
always have just men to be your kings, it would
be well for you to have a king. But remember the
iniquity of king Noah and his priests; and I myself
was caught in a snare, and did many things which
were abominable in the sight of the Lord, which caused
me sore repentance; nevertheless, after much tribula­
tion, the Lord didj hear my cries, and did answer
my prayers, and has made me an instrument in his
hands, in bringing so many of you to a knowledge of
his truth. Nevertheless, in this I do not glory, for I
am unworthy to glory of myself. And now I say
unto you, ye have been oppressed by king Noah, and
have been m bondage to him and his priests, and have
been brought into iniquity by them; therefore ye were
bound with the bands of iniquity. And now as ye
have been delivered, by the power of God, out of these
bonds; yea, even out of the hands of king Noah and
his people, and also from the bonds of iniquity, even
so I desire that yc should stand fast in this liberty
wherewith ye have been made free, and that ye trust
no man to be a king over you; and also trusting no one
to be your teacher nor your minister, except he be a
man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his
commandments. Thus did Alma teach his people,
that every man should love his neighbor as himself:
that there should be no contention among them. And
now Alma was their high priest, he being the founder
of their church. And it came to pass that none re­
ceived authority to preach or to teach, except it were
by him from God. Therefore he consecrated all their
priests, and all their teachers, and none were con-
secrated except they were just men. Therefore they
d
id watch over their people, and d
id nourish them
2L(5
BOOK OF MOSUH. 217
with things pertaining to righteousness. And it came
to pass that they began to prosper exceedingly in the
land; and they called the land Helam. And it came
to pass that they did multiply and prosper exceedingly
in the land of Helam; and they built a city, which
they called the city of Helam. Nevertheless the Lord
seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their
patience and their faith. Nevertheless, whosoever
puteth his tiust in him, the same shall be lifted up at
the last day. Yea, and thus it was with this people.
For behold, 1 will shew unto you that they were
brought into bondage, and none could deliver them
but the Lord their God; yea, even the God of Abra­
ham and Isaac, and of Jacob. And it came to pass
that he did deliver them, and he did shew forth his
mighty power unto them,and great were their rejoicings.
For behold, it came to pass that while they were in
the land of Helam, yea, in the city of Helam, while
tilling the land round about, behold an army of the
Lamaoites were in the borders of the land. Now it
came to pass that the brethren ofAlma fled from their
fields, and gathered themselves together into the city
of Helam; and they were much frightened because of
the appearance of the Lamanites. But Alma went
forth and stood among them, and exhorted them that
they should not be frightened, but that they should re­
member the Lord their God, and he would deliver
them; therefore they hushed their fears, and began to
cry unto the Lord, that he would soften the hearts of
the Lamanites, that they would spare them, and their
wives, and their children. And it came to pass that
the Lord did soften the hearts of the Lamanites. And
Alma and his brethren went forth and delivered them­
selves up into their hands; and the Lamanites took
possession of the land of Helam. Now the armies of
the Lamanites which had followed after the people of
king Limhi, had been lost in the wilderness lor many
days. And behold, they had found those priests of
king Noah, in a place which they called Amulon; and
they had began to possess the land of Amulon, and
had began to till the ground. Now the name of,the
leader of those priests was Amulon. And it came to
pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites; and
he also sent forth their wives, who were the daughters
of the Lamanites, „to plead with their brethren, that
they should not destroy their husbands. And the La-
. W ' I t . .t'Xi.fcV ■' . . . . . *
BOOK O F 'M O S tA B .
manitcs had compassion on^Amulon and lus brethren,
and did not destroy them, because of their wives.—
And Amulon and his brethren did join the Laraanites,
and they were traveling in the wilderness in search of
the land of Nephi, when they •discovered the land of
Helam, which was possessed by Alma and his brcth-
ren. And it came to pass that the Lamanites prom­
ised unto Alma and his brethren, that if they would
shew them the way which led to the land of Nephi,
that they would grant unto them their lives and their
liberty. But alter Alma had shewn them the way
that led to the land of Nephi, the Lamanites would
not keep® their promise; but they set guards round
about the land of Helam, over Alma and his brethren.
And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi;
and a part of them returned to the land of Helam, and
also brought with them the wives and the children of
the guards who had been left in the land. And Ihe
king of the Lamanites bad granted unto Amulon that
he should be a king and a ruler over his people, who
were in the land of Helam; nevertheless he should
have no power to do any thing contrary to the will of
the king of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in
the eyes of the king of the Lamanites; therefore the
king of the Lamanites granted unto him and his breth­
ren, that they should be appointed teachers over bis
people; yea, even over the people who were in the
land of Shemlon, and in the land of Shilom, and in
the land of Amulon: for the Lamanites had taken pos­
session of all these lands; therefore the king of the
Lamanites had appointed kings over all these lands,—
And now the name of the king of the Lamanites was
Laman, being called after the name of his father; and
♦therefore It* was called king Laman. And he was
king over a numerous people; and he appointed teach­
ers of the brethren of Amulon, in every land which
was possessed by his people; and thus the language of
Nephi beg?n to be taught among all the people ofthe
Lamanites. And they werea people friendly onewith
another; nevertheless they knew not God; neitherdid
the brethren of Ammon teach them any thing concern­
ing the Lord their God, neither the law of Moses;
nor did they teach them the words of Abin&di; hut
they taught them that they should keep their record,
«nd that they might write one.to another. And thus
the Lamanites began to increase in riches, and began
m
BOOK OP MOSLiH. 2 1 9
to trade one with another, and wax great, and began
to be a cunning and a wise people, as to the wisdom
of the world; yea, a very cunning people; delighting
in all manner of wickedness and plunder, except it
were among their own brethren.
And now it came to pass that Amulon began to ex­
ercise authority over Alma and his brethren, and be­
gan to persecute him, and cause that his children
should persecute their children: for Amulon knew Al­
ma, that he had been one of the king’s priests, and
that it was he that believed the words of Abinadi, and
was driven out before the king; and therefore he was
wroth with him, for he was subject to king Lam&n;
yet he exercised authority over them, and put tasks
upon them, and put task-masters over them. And it
came to pass that so great were their afflictions, that
they began to cry mightily to God. And Amulon
commanded them that they should stop their cries;
and he put guards over them to watch them, that who­
soever should be found calling upon God, should be
put to death. And Alma and his people did not raise
their voices to the Lord their God, but did pour out
their hearts to him; and he did know the thoughts of
their hearts.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came
to them in their afflictions, saying, lift up your heads
and be of good comfort, for I know of the covenant
which ye have made unto me; and I will covenant
with my people, and deliver them out of bondage.—
And I will also ease the burdens which are put upon,
your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon
your backs, even while you are in bondage; and this
will 1 do, that ye may stand as witnesses lor me here­
after, and that ye may know of a surety that I, the
Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions.-—
;
And now it came to pass that the burdens.which were
laid upon Alma and his brethren, were made light;
yea, the Lord did strengthen them that lhey,i could,
bear up their burdens with ease, and they did submit
cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the.
Lord. , *i-■ w . < >
. ,i t w
,
And it came to pass that so great was their faith and
their patience, that the voice of the.Lord came unto
them again, saying, be, of good comfort, forjon; the
morrow I will deliver you out of;bondage,'. A ndhe
said unto Alma, thou alia.lt go before this people,. and
•*’
»«**
* k
i
320 BOOK OF MOSTAH.
I will go with thee, and deliver this people outofbond-
age. •
•
Now it came to pass that Alma and his people in
the night lime, gathered their flocks together, and al­
so of their grain; yea. even all the night time were
they gathering their flocks together. And in the morn- i
mg the Lord caused a deep sleep to come upon the
Laniatiites, yea, and all their task-masters were in a
profound sleep. And Alma and his people departed
into the wilderness; and when they had traveled all
day, they pitched their tents in a valley, and they call­
ed the valley Alma, because lie led their way in the wil­
derness; yea, and in the valley of Alma they poured
out their thanks to God because he had been merciful
unto them, and eased their burdens, and bad delivered
them out of bondage; for they were in bondage, and
none could deliver them, except it were the Lord their
God. And they gave thanks to God, yea, all their
men, and all their women, and all their children, that
could speak, lifted their voices in the praises of their
God.
And now the Lord said unto Alma, haste thee and
get thou and this people out of this land, for the La-
nianites have awoke and do pursue thee; therefore get
thee out of this land, and I will stop the Lamanites in
this valley, that they come no further in pursuit of
tliis people. And it came to pass that they departed
out of the valley, and took their journey into the wil­
derness. And after they had been in the wilderness
twelve days, they arrived to the land of Zara hernia;
and king Mosiah did also receive them with joy. And
now king Mosiah caused that all the people should be
gathered together. Now there were not so many of
the children of Nephi, or so many of those who were
descendants of Nephi, as there were of the people of
Zarahemla, who was a descendant of Mulok, and those |
who came with him into the wilderness; and there
were not so many of the people of Nephi and of the
people of Zarahemla as there were of the Lamanitei:
yea, they were not half so numerous. And now all
the people of Nephi were assembled together, and al­
to all the people of Zarahemla, and they were gather­
ed together in two bodies.
And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caus­
ed to be read, the records of Zeniffto his people; yea,
he read the**records of the people o f,Zeniff, from the
time they left the laid of Zarahemla until they return­
BOOK OF MOStAH. m
ed again. And he also read the account of Alma and
his brethren, and all their afflictions, from the time
they left the land of Zarabemla, until the lime they
returned again. And now when Mosiah had made an
end of reading the records, liis people who tarried in
the land were struck with wonder and amazement, fbr
they knew not what to think; for when they beheld
those that had been delivered out of bondage, they
were filled with exceeding great joy. And again,
when they thought of their brethren who had been
slain by the Lamanites, they were filled with sorrow,
and even shed many tears of sorrow, and again, when
they thought of the immediate goodness of God, and
his power in delivering Alma and his brethren out of
the hands of the Lamanites, and of bondage, they did
raise their voices, and give thanks to God. And again,
when they thought upon the Lamanites, who were
their brethren, ot their sinful and polluted slate, they
were filled with pain and anguish, for the welfare of
their souls.
And it came to pass that those who were the child­
ren of Amulon and his brethren, who had taken to
wife the daughters of the Lamanites, were displeased
with the conduct of their fathers, and they would no
longer be called by the names of their fathers, therefore
they took upon themselves the name of Nephi, that
they might be called the children of Nephi, and be
numbered among those who were called Nephites.—
And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered
with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had
been conferred upon none but those who were descend­
ants ofNephi.
And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had
made an end of speaking and reading to the people, he
desired that Alma should also speak to the people.—
And Alma did speak unto them, when they were as­
sembled together in large bodies, and he went from
one body to another, preaching unto the people re­
pentance and faith on the Lora. And he did exhort
the people of Limhi and his brethren, all those that
had been delivered out of bondage, that they should
remember that it was the Lord that did deliver them.
And it came to pass that after Alma had taught the
people manythinga, and had made an end of speaking
to them, that king Limhi was desirous that,, he might
be baptized; and all his people were desirous that they
wight be baptized also, Therefore Aiwa did go forty
2 2 2 BOOK o r IIOSUH.
into the water, and didbaptize them; yea,-he did bap­
tize them after the manner he did his brethren in the
waters of Mormon; yea, and as many as he did bap­
tize did belong to the church of God; and this because
oftheir belief on the words of Alma-
And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto
Alma, that he might establish churches throughout all
the land of Zarahetnla; and gave him power to ordain
priests and teachers over every church. Now this
was done because there were so many people that they
could not all be governed by one teacher; neither
could they all hear the word of God in one assembly;
therefore they did assemble themselves together in dif­
ferent bodies, being called churches; every church
having their priests and their teachers, and every
priest preaching the word according as it was deliver­
ed to him by the mouth of Alma; and thus, notwith­
standing there being many churches, they were all
one church; yea, even the church of God: for there
was nothing preached in a'l the churches except it
were repentance and faith in God. And now there
were seven churches in the land of Zarahernla. And
it came to pass that whosoever were desirous to lake
upon them the name of Christ, or of God, they did
join the churches of God; and they were called the
people of God. And the Lord did pour out his spirit
upon them, and they were blessed, and prospered in
the land.
Now it came to pass that there were many of the
rising generation that could not understand the words
of king Benjamin, being little children at the time he
spake unto his people; and they did not believe the
tradition of their fathers. They did not believe what
had been said concerning the resurrection of the dead;
neither did they believe concerning the coming of
Christ. And now because of their unbelief, they could
not understand the word of God; and- their hearts
were hardened. :And they would not be baptized;
neither would they join the church. And they were
a separate people as to their faith, and remained so ev­
er after, even in their carnal and sinful state; for they
would not call upon the Lord their God. And now
in the reign of Mosiah,' they were not half so numer­
ous as the people of God; but because of the dissen­
sions among the brethren, they became more numer­
ous, Tor it came to pass that they did deceive many
with their flattering words,' who were in the church,,
and did cause them to commit many B in s; therefore it
became expedient that those who committed sin that
were in the church, should be admonished by the
church.
And it came to pass that they were brought before
the priests, and delivered up unto the priests by the
teachers; and the priests brought them before Alma,
who was the high priest. Now king Mosiah had giv­
en Alma the authority over the church. And it came
to pass that Alma did not know concerning them, for
there were many witnesses against them; yea, the peo­
ple stood and testified of their iniquity in abundance.
Now there had not any such thing happened before,
in the church; therefore Alma was troubled in bis
spirit, and he caused that they should he brought be­
fore the king. And he said unto the king, behold,
here are many whom we have brought before thee,
who are accused of their brethren; yea, and they have
been taken in divers iniquities. And they do not re­
pent of their iniquities; therefore we have brought
them before thee, that thou mayest judge them accor­
ding to their crimes. But king Mosiah said unto Al­
ma, behold, I judge them not; therefore I deliver them
into thy hands to be judged. And now the spirit of
Alma was again troubled; and he went and inquired
of the Lord what he should do concerning this matter,
for he feared that he should do wrong in the sight of
God.
And it came to pass that after he had poured out his
whole soul to God, the voice of the Lord came to him,
saying, blessed art thou, Alma, and blessed are they
who were baptized in the waters of Mormon. Thou
art blessed because of thy exceeding faith in the words
alone of my servant Abinadi. And blessed are they,
because ot their exceeding faith in the words alone
which thou hast spoken unto them. And blessed art
thou because thou hast established a church among
this people; and they shall be established, and they
shall be my people. Yea, blessed is this people, who
are willing to bear my name: for in my name shall
they be called; and they are mine. And because thou
bast enquired of me concerning the transgressor, thou
art blessed. Thou art my servant; and I covenant
with thee,' that thou shall have eternal life; and thou
■halt serve me, and go forth in my name, and shall
gather together my sheep. And he that will hear my
voice, shall be my sheep; and him shall ye receive in­
BOOK OW MOSIAH. 223
224 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
to the church; and him will I also receive. For be­
hold, this is my church: whosoever is baptized, shall
be baptized unto repentance. And whosoever ye re­
ceive, shall believe in my name; and him will I freely
forgive: for it is 1 that taketh upon me the sins of the
world; for it is I that hath created them; and it is I
that granteth unto him that believeth in the end, a
place at ray right hand. For behold, in my name are
they called: and if they know me, they shall come
forth, and shall have a place eternally at ray right
hand. And it shall come to pass that when the sec­
ond trump shall sound, then shall they that never knew
me come forth, and shall stand before me; and then
shall they know that I am the Lord their God, that I
am their Redeemer; but they would not be redeemed.
And then will 1 confess unto them, that 1 never knew
them; and they shall depart into everlasting fire, pre­
pared for the devil and his angels. Therefore I say
unto you, that he that will not hear my voice, the
same shall ye not receive into my church, for him I
will not receive at the last day; therefore I say unto
you, go; and whosoever transgresseth against me, him
shall ye judge according to the sins which he has com­
mitted; and if he confess his sins before thee and me,
and repenteth in the sincerity of his heart, him shall
ye forgive, and I will forgive him also; yea, and as of­
ten as my people repent, will I forgive them their tres­
passes against me. And ye shall also forgive one an­
other your trespasses: for verily I say unto you, he
that forgiveth not his neighbor’s trespasses, when he
says that he repents, the same hath brought himself
under condemnation. Now I say unto you, go; and
whosoever will not repent of his sins, the same shall
not be numbered among my people: and this shall be
observed from this time forward.
And it came to pass when Alma had heard these
words, he wrote them down, that he might have them,
and that he might judge the people of that church, ac­
cording to the commandments of God.
And it came to pass that Alnm went and judged
those that had been taken in iniquity, according to the
word of the Lord. And whosoever repented of their
sins and did confess them, them he did number among
the people of the church; and those that would not
confess their sins and repent of their iniquity, the same
were not numbered among the people of the church,
and their names were blotted out. a And it came topass
BOOK OP MOSIAH. 226
that Alma did regulate all the affairs of the church;
aud they began again to have peace and to prosper ex­
ceedingly in the affairs ofthe church; walking circum­
spectly before God; receiving many, and baptizing
many. And now all these things did Alma and his
fellow-laborers do, who were over the church; walking
in all diligence; teaching the word of God in all
things; suffering alt manner of afflictions; being per­
secuted by all those who did not belong to the church
of God. And they did admonish their brethren; and
they were also admonished, every one, by the word of
God, according to his sins, or to the sins which he had
committed; being commanded of God to pray without
ceasing, and to give thanks in all things. And now it
came to pass that the persecutions which were indicted
on thechurch by the unbelievers, became so great, that
the church began to murmur, anil complain to their
leaders concerning the matter; and they did complain
to Alma. And Alma laid the case before their king,
Mosiah. And Mosiah consulted with his priests.
And it came to pass that king Mosiah sent a procla­
mation throughout the land round about, that there
should not any unbeliever persecute any of those who
belonged to the church of God; and there was a strict
command throughout all the churches, that there
should be no persecutions among them; that there
should be an equality among all men; that they should
Jet no pride nor haughtiness disturb their peace; that
every man should esteem his neighbor as himself, la­
boring with their own hands for their support; yea,
and all their priests and teachers should labor with their
own hands for their support, in all cases save it were
in sickness, or in much want: and doing these things,
they did abound in the grace of God. And there be­
gan to be much peace again in the land; and the peo­
ple began to be very' numerous, and began to scatter
abroad upon the face of the earth; yea, on the north
and on the south, on the east and on the west, build­
ing large cities and villages in all quarters of the land.
And the Lord did visit them and prosper them, and
they became a large and a wealthy people.
Now the sons of Mosiah were numbered among the
unbelievers; and also one of the sons of Alma wai
numbered among them, be being called Alma, after
bis father; nevertheless he became a very wicked and
an idolatrous man. | And he was a man ot many
words, and ,did speak much flattery to the people;
226 BOOK OF HOSIAH.
therefore he led many of the people to do after the
manner of his iniquities. And he became a great
himlerment to the prosperity of the church of God;
stealing away the hearts of the people; causing much
dissension among the people; giving a chance for the
enemy of God to exercise his power over them.
And now it came to pass that while he was going
about to destroy the church of God: for he did go
about secretly with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to de­
stroy the church, and to lead astray the people of the
Lord, contrary to the commandments of God, or even
the king; and as I said unto you, as they were going
about rebelling against God, behold, the angel of the
Lord appeared unto them; and he descended as it were
in a cloud; and he spake as it were with a voice of
thunder, which caused the earth to shake upon which
they stood; and so great was their astonishment, that
they fell to the earth, and understood not the words
which he spake unto them. Nevertheless he cried
again, saying, Alma, arise, and stand forth, for why
persecuteth thou the church of GodT For the Lord
hath said, This is my church, and I will establish it;
and nothing shall overthrow it, save it is the transgres­
sion of my people. And again, the angel said behold,
the Lord hath heard the prayers of his people, and also
the prayers of his servant Alma, who is thy father:
for he has prayed with much faith concerning thee,
that thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the
truth; therefor® for this puroose have I come to con­
vince thee of the power and authority of God, that tha
prayers of his servants might be answered according to
their faith. And now behold, can ye dispute the pow­
er of GodT For behold, dolh not my voice shake the
earth? And can ye not also behold me before youf
And I am sent from God. Now I say unto thee, go,
and remember the captivity of thy fathers in the land
of Helam, and in the land of Nephi; and remember
how great things he has done for them: for they were
in bondage, and he has delivered them. And now
I say unto thee, Alma, go thy way, and seek to de­
stroy the church no more, that their prayers may bo
answered; and this even if thou wilt of thyself be cast
off.
And now it came to pass that these were the last
words which the,angel spake unto Alma, and he de-
Erted. And now Alma, and those that were with
n, fell again to the earth, for great was tbeir aston-
BOOK OF MOS1AH. 227
ishment: for with their own eyes they had beheld an
angel of the Lord; and his voice was os thunder, which
shook the earth; and they knew that there was noth­
ing save the power of God, that could shake the earth
and cause it to tremble, as though it would part
asunder. And now the astonishment of Alma was so
great, that he became dumb, that he could not open his
mouth; yea, and he became weak,even that he could not
move his hands; therefore he was taken by those that
were with him, and carried helpless, even until hewas
laid before his father. And they rehearsed unto hisfather
all that had happened unto them; and hisfatherrejoiced,
for he knew that it was the power ofGod. And he caus­
ed that a multitude should be gathered together, that
they might witness what the Lord had done for his son,
and also for those that were withhim. And he caused
that the priests should assemble themselves together;
and they began to fast, and to pray to the Lord their
God, that he would open the mouth of Alma, that he
might speak; and also that his limbs might receive their
strength, that the eyes ofthe people might be opened to
see and know of the goodness and glory of God,
And it came to pass after they had fasted and pray­
ed for the space of two days and two nights, the limbs
of Alma received their strength, and he stood up and
began to speak unto them, bidding them to be of good
comfort; for, said he, I have repented of my sins, and
have been redeemed of the Lord; behold, I am born of
the spirit. And the Lord said unto me, marvel not
that all mankind, yea, men, and women, all nations,
kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea,
born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen
state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of
God, becoming his sonsand daughters; and thus they
become new creatures; and unless they do this, they
can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God. I say un­
to you, unless this be the case, they must he cast off:
and this I know, because I was like to be cast off.
Nevertheless, after wandering through much tribula­
tion, repenting nigh unto death, the Lord iu mercy
hath seen fit to snatch me out of an everlasting burn­
ing, and I am born of God; my soul hath been redeem­
ed from the gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity.
I was tn the darkest abyss; but'now I behold the mar­
velous light of God. My soul was wrecked with
eternal torment; but I*?am snatched,’ and my goufi&ff
pained no more; I rejected my Redeemer, and;denied
BOOK OF MOSIAH.
■j¥
that which had been spoken of hr our fathers; but own
that they may foresee and that lie will come, and that
he remembereth every creature of his creating, he will
make himself manifest unto all; yea, every knee shall
bow, and every tongue confess before him. Yea, even
at the last day, when all men shall stand to be judged
of him, tlien shall they confess that lie is God; then
shall they confess, who live without God in the world,
that the judgment of an everlasting punishment is just
upon them; and they shall quake, and tremble, and
shrink beneath the glance of his all-searching eye.
And now it came to pass that Alma began from this
time forward, to teach the people, and those who were
with Alma at the time the angel appeared unto them;
travelling round about through all the land, publishing
to all the people the tilings which they had heard and
seen, arid preaching the word of God in much tribula­
tion, being greatly persecuted by those who were un­
believers, being smitten by many of them; but not­
withstanding all this, they did impart much consola­
tion to the church, confirming their faith, and exhort­
ing them with long suffering and much travail, to keep
the commandments of God. And four of them were
the sons of Mosiah; and their names were Ammon,
and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni: these were the
names of the sons of Mosiah. And they travelled
throughout all the land ofZarahemla, and among all the
people who were underthe reign of king Mosiah, zeal­
ously striving to repair all the injuries which they had
done to the church; confessing all their sins, and pub­
lishing all the things which they had seen, and ex­
plaining the prophecies and the scriptures to all whode­
sired to hear them: and thus they were instruments in
the hands of God, in bringing many to the knowledge
of the truth, yea, to the knowledge of1heir Redeemer.
And how blessed are they! For they did publish peace;
they did publish good tidings of good; and they did de-
elare unto the people that the Lord reignelh. :*
• ■
238
CHAPTER XII. ,
* ! ■'.* -F -Jr- ‘ -T
Now it came to pass that after the sons of Moeiah
bad done all these things, they took a small number
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 229
with them, and returned to their father, the king, and
desired of him that he would grant unto them, that
they might, with these whom they had selected, go up
to the land of Nephi, that they might preach the things
which they had heard, and that they might impart the
word of God to their brethren, the Lamanites, that
perhaps they might bring them to the knowledge of
the Lord their God, and convince them of the iniquity
of their fathers; and that perhaps they might cure
them of their haired towards the Nephites, that they
might also be brought to rejoice in the Lord their Goa,
that they might become friendly to one another, and
that there should be no more contentions in all the
land which the Lord their God had given them. Now
they were desirous that salvation should be declared
to every creature, for they could not bear that any
human soul should perish; yea, even the very thoughts
that any soul should endure endless torment, did cause
them to quake and tremble. And thus did the spirit
of the Lord work upon them, for they were the very
vilest of sinners. And the Lord saw ht in his infinite
mercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered much
anguish of soul, because of their iniquities; and suf­
fering much, fearing that they should be cast off for­
ever.
And it came to pass that they did plead with their
father many days, itiat they might go up to the land
of Nephi. And kingMosiah went and inquired of the
Lord, if he would let his sons go up among the La­
manites to preach the word. And the Lord said unto
Mosiah, let them go up, for many shall believe on their
words, and they shall have eternal life; and I will de­
liver thy sons out of the hands of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Mosiah granted that they
might go, and do according to their request;, and they
took their journey into the wilderness, to go up to
preach the word among the Lamanites: and I shall
Eive an account of their proceedings hereafter. Now
ing Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon,
for there was not any of his sons who would accept
of the kingdom; therefore he took the records which
were engraven on the plates of brass, and also the
plates of Nephi, and all the things which he had kept
and preserved, according to the commandments of
God* after having Unstated and caused to be written
the records which were on the plates of gold, which
had been found by the people of Limbi, whioh wem
230 BOOK OF KOSIXH.
delivered to him by the hand of Limhi; and this he
did, because of the great anxiety of his people, for
they were desirous beyond measure, to know con>
cerning those people who had been destroyed. And
now he translated them by the means of those two
stones which were fastened into the two rims of a bow.
Now these things were prepared from the beginning,
and were handed down from generation to generation,
for the purpose of interpreting languages; and they
have been kept and preserved by the band of the Lord,
that he should discover to every creature who should
possess the land, the iniquities and abominations of
his people; and whosoever has these things, is called
seer, after the manner of old times.
Now after Mosiah had finished translating these
records, behold, it gave an account of the people who
, were destroyed, from the time that they were destroy­
ed, back to the building of the great tower, at the time
the Lord confounded the language of the people; and
they were scattered abroad upon the face of all the
earth, yea, and even from that time until the creation
of Adam. Now this account diu cause the people of
Mosiah to mourn exceedingly; yea, they were filled
, with sorrow: nevertheless it gave them much know-
f ledge, in the which they did rejoice. And this account
I shall be written hereafter: for behold, it is expedient
that all people should know the things which are writ­
ten in this account.
' CHAPTER XIII.
Aironow, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah
had done these tilings, he took the plates of brass,
and all the things ..which he had'kept, and conferred
them upon Alma, who was the son of Alma; yea, all
the records, and also the interpreters, and conferred
them upon him, and commanded him that lie should
keep and preserve them; and also keep a record of the.
| people, handing them down.from one.generation to^
p another, even as.tbey had been handed down from the
time that Lehi left; Jerusalem. ^Now when Moriah
had done this, he sent out throughout.all the land,
f among all the people, desiring tohnow their wiU cdn*
BOOK O F ‘KOS1AH. SSI
corning who should be their king. And it came to
pass that the voice of the people came, saying, we
are desirous that Aaron, thy son, should be our king,
and our ruler. Now Aaron had gone up to the land
ofNephi, therefor*1the king could not confer the king­
dom upon him; neither would Anron lake upon him
the kingdom; neither were any of the sons of Mosiah
willing to take upon them the kingdom, therefore king
Mosiah sent again among the people, yea, even a writ­
ten word sent he among the people. And these were
the words that were written; saying: Behold, O^ye
my people, or my brethren, for I esteem you as such;
for I desire that ye should consider the cause which
ye are called to consider; for ye are desirous to have a
king. Now I declare unto you, that he to whom the
kingdom doth rightly belong, has declined, and will
not take upon him the kingdom. And now if there
should be another appointed in his stead, behold I fear
there would rise contentions among you; and who
knoweth but what my son, to whom the kingdom doth
belong, should turn to be angry, and draw away a part
of this people afLer him, which would cause wars and
contentions among you; which would be the cause of
shedding much blood, and perverting the way of the
Lord; yea, and destroy the souls of many people.
Now I say unto you, let us be wise and consider these
things, for we have no right to destroy my son, neith­
er should we have any right to destroy another, if he
should be appointed in his stead. And if my son
should turn again to his pride and vain things, he
would recall the things which he had said, and claim
his right to the kingdom, which would cause him and
also this people to commit much sin. And now let us
be wise and look forward to these things, and do that
which will make for the peace of this people. There­
fore I will be your king the remainder of my days;
nevertheless, let us appoint judges, to judge this peo­
ple according to cur law, and we will newly arrange
the affairs of this people, for we will appoint wise men
to be judges, that will judge this people according to
the commandments of God. Now it is better that a
man should be judged of God than of man, for the
judgments of God are always just, but the judgments
of man are not always just; therefore, if it were pos­
sible that ye could have just men to be your kings,
who would establish the Jaws of God, and judge this
people according to his commandments; yea, if ye
232 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
could have men for your kings, who would do even as
my father Benjamin did for this people; I say unto you,
if this could always be the case, then it would be ex­
pedient that ye should always have kings to rule over
you. And even I, myself have labored with all the
power of faculties which I have possessed, to teach you
the commandments of God, and to establish peace
throughout the land, that there should be no wars nor
contentions, no stealing, nor plundering, nor murder­
ing, nor any manner of iniquity; and whosoever has
committed iniquity, him have 1 punished according to
the law which has been given to us by our fathers.
Now I say unto you, that because all men are not
just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or
kings to rule over you. For behold, how much ini­
quity doth one wicked king cause to be committed!
yea, and what great destruction! Yea, remember
king Noah, his wickedness and his abominations; and
also the wickedness and abominations of his people.
Behold what great destruction did come upon them;
and also because of their iniquities, they were brought
into bondage. And were it not lor the interposition
of their all-wise Creator, and this because of their sin­
cere repentance, they must unavoidably remained in
bondage until now. But behold, he did deliver them
because they did humble themselves before him; and
because they cried mightily unto him, he did deliver
them out of bondage: and tiius doth the Lord work
with his power in all cases among the children of men,
extending the arm of mercy towards them that put
their trust in him. And behold, now I say unto you,
ye cannot dethrone an iniquitous king, save it be
through much contention, and the shedding of much
blood. For behold, he has his friends in iniquity, and
he keepeth his guards about him;;&nd he teareth up
the laws of those who have reigned in righteousness
before him: and he trampeleth under his feet the com­
mandments of God; and he enacteth laws, and send-
eth them forth among his people; yea, laws after the
manner of his own wickedness; and whosoever doth
not obey his laws, he causeth to be destroyed; and
whosoever doth rebel against him, he will send his ar­
mies against them to war, aud if he can, he will des­
troy them: and thus an unrighteous king doth pervert
the ways of all righteousness. And now behold I say
onto you, it is not expedient that such abominations
should come upon you;, therefore choose you by the
B O O S OF U O S U H . 233
voice of this people, judges, that ye may be judged
according to the laws which have been given you by
our fathers, which are correct, and which were given
them by the hand of the Lord. Now it is not com­
mon that the voice of the people desireth any thing
contrary to that which is right; but it is common for
the lesser part of the people to desire that which is
not right; therefore this shall ye observe, and make
it your law to do your business by the voice of the
people. And if the time comes that the voice of the
people doth choose iniquity, then is the time that the
judgments of God will come upon you; yea, then is
the lime he will visit you with great destruction, even
as he has hitherto visited this land. At.d now if ye
have judges, and they do not judge you according to
the law which has been given, ye can cause that they
may be judged of a higher judge; if your higher judg­
es do not judge righteous judgments, ye shall cause
that a small number of your lower judges should be
gathered together, and they shall judge your higher
judges, according to the voice of the people. And I
command you to do these things in the fear of the
Lord; and I command you to do these things, and
that ye have no king: that if these people commit sins
and iniquities, they shall be answered upon their oiyn .
heads. For behold I say unto you, the sin(s,of many
people have been caused by the iniquities 'of tfieif
kings; therefore their iniquities are answered upon
the heads of their kings. And now I desire1that U»f
inequality should be no more in this land, .especially
among this my people; but I desire that this land be a
land of liberty, and every man may enjoy his rights
and privileges alike, so long as the Lord sees fit, that
we may live and inherit the land; yea, even as long
as any of our posterity remains upon the face of the
land. And many more things did king Mosiah write
unto them, unfolding unto them all the trials and
troubles of a righteous king; yea, all the travails of
soul for their people, and also all the murmurings of
the people to their king; and he explained it all unto
them. And he told them that these things ought not
to be; but that the burden should come upon all the
people, that every man might bear his part. And he
also unfolded unto them all the disadvantages they la­
bored under, by having an unrighteous king to rule
over them; yea, all his iniquities and abominations,
j 2
*34 BOOK OB MOSIAH.
and all the wars, and contentions, and bloodshed, and
the stealing, and the plundering, and the committing
of whoredoms, and all manner of iniquities, which
cannot be enumerated; telling them that these things
ought not to be; that they were expressly repugnant
to the commandments of God.
And now it came to pass, after king Mosiah had
sent these things forth among the people, they were
convinced of the truth of his words; therefore they
relinquished their desires for a king, and became ex­
ceedingly anxious that every man should have an
equal chance throughout all the land; yea, and every
man expressed a willingness to answer for his own
sins. Therefore it came to pass that they assembled
themselves together in bodies throughout the land, to
cast in their voices concerning who should be their
judges, to judge them according to tiie law which had
been given them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced,
because of the liberty which had been granted unto
them. And they did wax strong in love towards Mo­
siah; yea, they did esteem him more than any other
man: for they did not look upon him as a tyrant, who
Was seeking for gain, yea, for that lucre whicli doth cor­
rupt the soul, for he had not exacted riches of them,
neither had he delighted in the shedding of blood; but
he had established |>eace in the land, and he had grant­
ed unto his people that they should be delivered from
all manner of bondage; therefore they did esteem him,
yea, exceedingly, beyond measure. And it came to
pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them,
or to judge them according to the law; and this they
did throughout all the land.
And it came to pass that Alma was appointed to be
the first chiefjudge; he being also the high priest; his
father having conferred the office upon him, and had
given him the charge concerning all the affairs of the
church. And now it came to pass that Alma did
walk in the ways of the Lord, and he did keep his
commandments, and he did judge righteous judg­
ments; and there was continual peace through the
land; and thus commenced the reign of the judges
throughout alt the land of Zarahemla, among all the
people who were called the Nephites: and Alma was
the first and chief judge. And now it came to pass
that his father died, being eighty and two years old,
having lived to fulfil the commandments of God. A
BOOK OF A U fA . 335
And it came to pass that Mosiah died also, in the
thirty and third year of his reign, .being sixty and
three years old; making in the whole, five hundred
and nine years from the time Lehi left Jerusalem; and
thus ended the reign of the kings over the people of
Nephi; and thus ended the days of Alma, who was
the founder of their church.
THE BOOK OP ALMA, , r
THE SON OF ALMA. "
CHAPTER I.
The account of Alma, who was the son of Alma the
first, and Chief Judge over the people qf Nephi, and
also the High Priest over the Church. An account of
the reign of the Judges, and die wars and eon•
teniions among the people. And also an account of
a war between the Nephites and the Lamanites, ac­
cording to the record of Alma die first, and Chief
Judge.
Now it came to pass that in the first year of tha
reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi, fbom
this time forward, king Mosiah having gone the way
of all the earth, having warred a good warfare, walk­
ing uprightly before God, leaving none to reign in his
stead; nevertheless he established laws, and they
were acknowledged by the people; therefore they were
obliged to abide by the laws which he had made.
And it came to pass that in the first year of the
reign of Alma in the judgment seat, there was a man
brought before him to be judged; a man who was
large, and was noted for his much strength; and he
baa gone about among tbe people, preaching to them
that which he termed to be the word of God, bearing
down against the church; declaring unto the people
that every priest and teacher ought to become popu­
lar; and they ought not to labor with their hands, but
that they ought to be supported' by the people; and
he also testified unto the people that all mankind
should be saved at the 'last day, and that they need
336 BOOK 0 7 ALMA,
not fear nor tremble, but that they might lift up their
heads and rejoice: for the Lord had created all men,
and had also redeemed all men; and in the end, all
men should have eternal life. And it came to pass
that he did teach these things bo much, that many did
believe on his words, even so many that they began
to support him and give him money; and he began
to be lifted up in the pride of his heart, and to wear
very costly apparel; yea, and even began to establish
a church, after the manner of his preaching.
And it came to pass as he was going to preach to
those who believed on his word, he met a man who
belonged to the church of God, yea, even one of their
teachers; and he began to contend with him sharply,
that he might lead away the people of the church;
but the man withstood him, admonishing him with
the words of God. Now the name of the man was
Gideon; and it was he who was an instrument in the
hands of God, in delivering the people of Limbi out of
bondage. Now because Gideon withstood him with
the words of God, he was wroth with Gideon, and
drew his sword and began to smite him. Now Gide­
on being stricken with many years therefore he was
not able to withstand his blows, therefore he was slain
by the sword; and the man who slew him was taken
by the people of the church, and was brought be­
fore Alma, to be judged according to the crime which
he had committed. And it came to pass that he stood
before Alma, and plead for himself with much bold­
ness. But Alma said unto him, behold, this is the
first time that priestcraft has been introduced among
this people. And behold, thou art not only guilty of
priestcraft, but hast endeavored to enforce it by the
sword; and were priestcraft to be enforced among this
people, it would prove their entire destruction. And
thou hast shed the blood of a righteous man, yea, a
man who has done much good among this people; and
were we to spare thee, his blood would come upon us
for vengeance; therefore thou art condemned to die,
according to the law which has been given us by Mo-
siah, our last king; and they have been acknowledged
by this people; therefore this people must abide by
the law. .*
And it came to pass that they took .him; and his
name was Nehor; and they carried him upon the top
of the hill Manti, and there he was caused, or rather
did acknowledge, between the heavens and the earth*
BOOS OF A lH A . 337
that what he had taught to the people was contrary to
the word of God; and there he suffered an ignomini­
ous death. Nevertheless this did not put an end to
the spreading of priestcraft through the land: for there
were many who loved the vain things of the world,
and they went forth preaching false doctrines; and
this they did for the sake of riches and honor. Nev­
ertheless they durst not lie, if it were known, for fear
of the law, for liars were punished; therefore they
pretended to preach according to their belief: and
now the law could have no power on any man for his
belief. And they durst not steal, for fear of the law;
for such were punished; neither durst they rob, nor
murder: for he that murdered was punished unto
death.
But it came to pass that whosoever did not belong
to the church of God, began to persecute those that
did belong to the church of God, and had taken upon
them the name of Christ; yea, they did persecute
them, and afflict them with all manner of words, and
this because of their humility; because they were not
proud in their own eyes, and because they did impart
the word of God, one with another, without money
and without price. Now there was a strict law among
the people of the church, that there should not any
man, belonging to the church, arise and persecute
those that did not belong to the church, and that there
should be no persecution among themselves. Never­
theless, there were many among them who began to
be proud, and began to contend warmly with their ad­
versaries, even unto blows; yea, they would smite
one another with their fists. Now this was in the
second year of the reign of Alma, and it was a cause
of much affliction to the church; yea, it was the
cause of much trial with the church; for the hearts of
many were hardened, and their names were blotted
out, that they were remembered no more among the
people of God. And also many withdrew themselves
from among them. Now this was a great trial to
those that did stand fast in the faith; nevertheless,
they were steadfast and immovable in keeping the
commandments of God, and they bore with patience
the persecution which was heaped upon them. And
when the priests left their labor, to impart the word
of God unto the people, the people also left their la­
bors to hear the word of God. And when the priest
had imparted unto them the word of God, they all w.
BOOK o r ALMA.
turned again diligently unto their labors: and the
priest, not esteeming himself above his hearers; for
the preacher was no better than the hearer, neither
was the teacher any better than the learner: and thus
they were all equal, and they did all labor, every man
according to his strength; and they did impart of their
substance every man according to that which he had,
to the poor, and the needy, and the sick, and the af­
flicted; and they did not wear costly apparel, yet they
were neat and comely: and thus they did establish
the affairs of the church: and thus they began to have
continual peace again, notwithstanding all their per­
secutions. And now because of the steadiness of the
church, they began to be exceeding rich; having
abundance of all things whatsoever they stood in need;
an abundance of flocks, and herds, and fallings of eve­
ry kind, and also abundance of grain, and of gold, and
of silver, and of precious things; and abundance of
silk and fine twined linen, and all manner of good
homely cloth. And thus in their prosperous circum­
stances they did not send away any who were naked,
or that were hungry, or that were athirst, or that
were sick, or that had not been nourished; and they
did not set their hearts upon riches; therefore they
were liberal to all, both old and young, both bond and
free, both male and female, whether out of the church
or in the church, having no respect to persons as to
those who stood in need; and thus they did prosper
and become far more wealthy, than those who did not
belong to their church. For those who did not be­
long to their church, did indulge themselves in sorcer­
ies, and in idolatry or idleness, and in bablings, and in
envyings and strife; wearing costly apparel; being
lifted up in the pride of their own eyes; lying, thiev­
ing, robbing, commiling whoredoms, and murdering,
and all manner of wickedness; nevertheless, the law
was put in force upon all those who did transgress it,
inasmuch as it were possible.
And it came to pass that by thus exercising the law
upon them, every man suffering according to that
which he had done, they became more still, and durst
not commit any wickedness, if it were known; there­
fore, there was much peace among the people of Ne-
phi, until the fifth year of the reign of the judges.-—
And it came to pass in the commencement of the fifth
year of their reign, there began to be a contention
among the people, for a certain man, being called Am-
*38
BOOK OB ALMA. 339
lici; he being a very cunning man, yea, a wise man,
a* to the wisdom of the world; he being after the or*
der of the man that slew Gideon by the sword, who
was executed according to the law. Now this Amli-
ci had, by his cunning, drawn away much people after
him; even so much that they began to be very power­
ful; and they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to
be a king over the people. Now this was alarming to
the people of the church, and also to all those who
had not been drawn away after the persuasions of Ara-
lici; for they knew that according to their law that
such things must be established by the voice of the
people; therefore, ifit were possible that Amlici should
gain the voice of the people, he being a wicked man,
would deprive them of their rights and privileges of
the church, &c: for it was his intent to destroy the
church of God.
And it came to pass that the people assembled them­
selves together throughout all the land, every man ac­
cording to his mind, whether it were for or against
Amlici, in separate bodies, having much dispute and
wonderful contentions one with another; and thus
they did assemble themselves together, to cast in their
voices concerning the matter: and they were laid be
fore the judges. And it came to pass that the voice
of the people came against Amlici, that he was not
made king over the people. Now this did cause much
joy in the hearts ot those who were against him; but
Amlici did stir up those who were in his favor, to an­
ger against those who were not in his favor.
And it came to pass that they gathered themselves
together, and did consecrate Amlici to be their king.
Now when Amlici was made king over them, he com­
manded them that they should take up arms against
their brethren; and this he did, that he might subject
them to him. Now the people of Amlici were distin­
guished by the name of Amlici, being called Amlicites;
and the remainder were called Nephites,or the people of
God: therefore the people of the Nephites were aware
of the intent of the Amlicites, and therefore they did
prepare to meet them; yea, they did arm themselves
with swords, and with cimeters, and with bows, and
with arrows, and with stones, and with slings, and
with all manner of weapons of war, of every kind/
and thus they were prepared to meet the Amlicites at
the time of their coming. And there were appointed
240 BOOK O r AUSA-
eaptains, and higher captains, and chief captains, ac­
cording to their numbers. ■
And it came to pass that Amlici did arm his men
with all manner of weapons of war, of every kind: and
he also appointed rulers and leaders over his people,
to lead them to war against their brethren. And it
came to pass that the Amliciles came upon the hill
Amniliu, which was cast of the river Sidon, which
ran by the land ofZarahemla, and there they began to
make war with the Nephites. Now Alma, being the
chief judge, and the governor of the people of Neplii,'
therefore he went up with his people, yea, with his
captains, and chief captains, yea, at the head of his
armies, against the Amlicites to battle; and they be­
gan to slay the Amlicites upon the lull east of Sidon.
And the Amlicites did contend with the Nephites with
great strength, insomuch that many of the Nephites
did fall before the Amlicites; nevertheless the Lord
did strengthen the hand of the Nephites, that they slew
the Amlicites with a great slaughter, that they began
to flee before them. And it came to pass that the Ne­
phites did pursue the Amlicites all that day, and did
slay them with much slaughter, insomuch that there
was slain of the Amlicites twelve thousand five hund­
red thirty and two souls; and there was slain of the
Nephites, six thousand five hundred sixty and two
souls.
And it came to pass that when Alma could pursue
the Amlicites no longer, he caused that his people
should pitch their tents, in the valley of Gideon,
the valley being called after that Gideon who was slain
by the hand of Nehor with the sword: and in this
valley the Nephites did pitch their tents for the night.
And Alma sent spies to follow the remnant of the Am­
licites, that he might know of their plans and their
plots, whereby he might guard himself against them,
that he might preserve his people from being destroy­
ed. Now those whom he had sent out to watch the
camp of the Amlicites, were called Zeram, and Am-
nor, and Manti, and Limber; these were they who
went out with their men to watch the camp of the
Amlicites.
And it came to pass that on the morrow they return­
ed into the camp of the Nephites, in great haste, being
greatly astonished, and struck with much fear, saying,
behold,"we followed the camp Of the Amlicites,. and to
our great astonishment, in Ine land of Minon, abort
BOOK OF ALMA. 241
the land of Zarahemla; in the course of the land of
Nephi; we saw a numerous host of the Lamanites;
and behold, the Amlicites have joined them, and they
are upon our brethren in that land; and they are flee­
ing before them with their flocks, and their wives, and
their children, towards our city; and except we make
haste, they obtain possession of our city; and our
fathers, and our wives, and our children be slain.
And it came to pass that the people of Nephi took
their tents, and departed out of the valley of Gideon
towards their city, which was the city of Zarahemls.
And behold, as they were crossing the river Si-
don, the Lamanites and the Amlicites, being as nu­
merous almost, as it were, as the sands of the sea,
came upon them to destroy them; nevertheless the
Nephites, being strengthened by the hand of the Lord,
having prayed mightly to him that he would deliver
them out of the hands of their enemies; therefore the
Lord did hear their cries, and did strengthen them,
and the Lamanites and the Amlicites did fall before
them. And it came to pass that Alma fought with
Amlici with the sword, face to face; and they did con­
tend mightily, one with another.
And it came to pass that Alma, being a man of God,
being exercised with much faith, cried, saying, OLord,
have mercy and spare my life, that I may be an instru­
ment in thy hands, to save and preserve,this people.
Now when Alina had said these words, he contended
again with Amlici; and he was strengthened, inso­
much that he slew Amlici with the sword. And he
also contended with the king of the Lamanites; but
the king of the Lamanites fled back from before Alma,
and sent his guards to contend with Alma. But Alma,
with his guards, contended with the guards of the
king of the Lamanites, until he slew and drove them
back; and thus he cleared the ground, or rather the
bank, which was on the west ofthe river Sidon, throw-
ing the bodies of the Lamanites who had been slain,
into the waters of Sidon, that thereby his people might
have room to cross and contend with the Lamanites
and the Amlicites,' on the west side of the river Sidon.
And it came to pass that when they bad all crossed
the river Sidon that the Lamanites and the Amlicites
began to flee before them, notwithstanding they were
so numerous that they could not be numbered; and
they fled before the Nephites, towards the wilderness
X. j:
242 BOOK O r ALMA.
which was west and north, away beyond the borders
of the land; ami the Nephitcs did pursue them with
their might, and did slay them; yea, they were met on
every hand, and slain, and driven, until they were scat'
tered on the west, and on the north, until they had
reached the wilderness, which was called Herinounts:
and it was that part of the wilderness which was in­
fested by wild and ravenous beasts. And it came to
pass that many died in lire wilderness oi their wounds,
and were devoured by those beasts, and also the vul­
tures of the air: and their hones have been found, and
have been heaped up on the earth.
And it came to pass that the Nephites, who were
not slain by tfie weapons of war, after having buried
those who had been slain: Now the number of the
slain were not numbered, because of the greatness of
their number; after they had finished burying their
dead, they all returned to their lands, and to their
houses, and their wives, and their children. Now
many women and children had been slain with the
sword, and also many of their flocks and their herds;
and also many of their fields of grain were destroyed,
for they were trodden down by the hosts of men.
And now as many of tbe Lamanites and the Amlieiles
who had been slain upon the bank of the river Si-
don, were cast into the waters of Sidon; and behold,
their bones are in the depths of the sea, and they are
many. And the Amlicites were distinguished from the
Nephites; for they had marked themselves with red in
their foreheads, after themanner ofthe Lamanites; nev­
ertheless they had not shorn their heads like unto the
Lamanites. Now the heads of the Lamanites were
shorn; and they were naked, save it were skin, which
was girded about their loins, and also their armour,
which was girded about them, and their bows, and their
arrows, and their stones, and their slings,&c. And the
skins ofthe Lamanites were dark,according to the mark
which wasset upon their fathers, which was a curse up­
on them because of their transgression and their rebel­
lion against their brethren, who consisted of Nephi, Ja­
cob, and Joseph, and Sam, who werejust and holy men.
And their brethren Bought to destroy them; therefore
they were cursed; and the Lord God set a mark upon
them, yea, upon Latnan and Lemuel, and also the sons
ofIshmael, andIshmaelitish women: and this was done,
that their seed, might be distinguished from the seed ot
their brethren,that thereby theLord God might preserve
BOOK OF ALMA. 243
his people, that they might noLmix and^believe in in­
correct traditions which would prove their destruction.
And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his
seed with that of the Lamunites, did bring the same
curse upon his seed: therelore whomsoever suffered
himself to be led away by the Lamanites, were called
that head, and there was a mark set upon him. And it
came to pass that whosoever would not believe in the
tradition of the Lamanites, but believed those records
which were brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and
also in the tradition oftheir fathers, which were correct,
who believed in the commandments of God, and kept
them, were called the Nepliites, or the people of Nephi,
from that time forth; and it is they who have kept the
records which are true of their people, and also of the
people ofthe Lamanites. Now we will return again to
the Amlicites, for they also bad a mark set upon them;
yea, they sot the mark upon themselves, yea, even a
mark ofred upon their foreheads. Thus the word of God
is fulfilled, for these are the words which he said to Ne­
phi: Behold, the Lamanites have I cursed; and I will
set a mark on them, that they and their seed may be
separated from thee and thy seed, from this time hence­
forth and forever, except they repent of their wicked­
ness and turn to me, that I may have mercy upon them.
And again: I wiil set a mark upon him that mingleth
his seed with thy brethren, that they may be cursed also.
And again: I will set a mark upon him that fighteth
against thee and thy seed. And again I say, he that de-
F
arteth from thee, shall no more be called thy seed; and
will bless thee, &c. and whomsoever shall be called
thy seed, henceforth and forever: and these were the
promises of the Lord unto Nephi, and to his seed. Now
the Amlicites knew not that they were fufilling the
words of God, when they began to mark themselves in
their foreheads; nevertheless they had come out in
open rebellion against God; therefore it was expedient
that the curse should fall upon them. Now I would
that ye should see that they brought upon themselves
the curse; and even so doth every man that 13cursed,
bring upon himself his own condemnation.
Now it came to pass that not many days after the
battle which was fought in the land of Zarohemla, by
the Lamanites and the Amlicites, that there was an­
other army ot the Lamanites came in upon the people
of Nephi, in the same place, where the first army met
she Amlicites. And it came to pass that there:was an
244 BOOK OF AI.MA.
array sent to drive them out oftheir land. Now Alina
himself being- afflicted with a wound, did not go up to
battle at this time against the Lamanites; but he sent
up a numerous army against them; and they.went up
and slew many of the Lamanites, and drove the re­
mainder of them out of the borders of their land; and
then they returned again, and began to establish peace
in the land, being troubled no more for a time with their
euemies. Now all these things were done, yea, all
these ware and contentions were commenced and end­
ed, in the fifth year of the reign of the Judges; and in
one year were thousands and tens ofthousands of souls
sent to the eternal world, that they might reap their
rewards according to their works, whether they were
good or whether they were bad, to reap eternal happi­
ness or eternal misery, according to the spirit which
they listed to obey, whether it be a good spirit or a bad
one; for every man receiveth wages of him whom he
listeth to obey, and this according to the words of the
spirit of prophecy; therefore let it be according to the
truth. And thus endeth the fifth year of the reign of
the Judges.
CHAPTER II.
Now it came to pass in the sixth year of the reign of
the judges over the people of Nephi, there were no
contentions nor wars in the land of Earahemla; but
the people were afflicted, yea, greatly afflicted for the
loss of their brethren, and also for the loss offtheir
Hocks and herds, and also for the loss of their fields of
.grain, which were trodden under foot and destroyed
by the Lamanites, and so great were their afflictions,
that every soul had cause to mourn; and they believed
that it was the judgments of God sent upon them, be­
cause of their wickedness and their abominations:
therefore they were awakened to a remembrance of
their duty. And they began to establish the church
more fully; yea, and many were baptized in the waters
ofSidon, and were joined to the church of God;1yea,
they were baptized by the dtand of .Alma, who. had
been consecrated the high priest* over the people of
the church, by the band of has lather Alma. , a /
BOOK o r A U U i 245
And it came to pass in the seventh year of the ieign
of the judges, there were about three thousands five
hundred souls that united themselves to the church of
God, and were baptized. And thus cndeth tire seventh
year of the reign of the judges over the people of Ne-
phi; and there was continual peace in all that time.
And it come to pass in the eighth year ofthe reign of
the judges, that the people of the church began to wax
proud, because of their exceeding riches, and their
fine silks, and their fine twined linen, and because of
their many flocks and herds, and their gold, and their
silver, and ail manner of precious things, which they
had obtained by their industry; and in alt these things
were they lifted up tn tire pride of their eyes, for they
began to wear very costly apparel. Now this was the
cause of much affliction to Alma, yea, and to many of
the people whom Alma had consecrated to be teachers,
and priests, and elders, over the church; yea, many
of them were sorely grieved for the wickedness
which they saw had begun to be among their peo­
ple. For they saw and beheld with great sorrow, that
the people of the church began to be lifted up in
the pride of their eyes, and to set their hearts upon
riches and upon the vain things of the world; that
they began to be scornful, one towards another, and
they began to persecute those that did not believe ac­
cording to their own will and pleasure. And thus in
this eighth year ofthe reign of the judges, there began
to begreat contentions among the people ofthe church;
yea, there were envyings, and strife, and malice, and
persecutions, and pride, even to exceed the pride of
those who did not belong to the church of God. And
thus ended the eighth year of the reign of the judges;
and the wickedness of the church was a great stumb­
ling block to those who did not belong to the church;
and thus the church began to fail in its progress.
And it came to pass in the commencement of the
ninth year, Alma saw the wickedness of the church,
and he saw also that the example of the church began
to lead those who were unbelievers, on from one piece
of iniquity to another, thus bringing on the destruction
of the people; yea, he saw great inequality among the
people, some lifting themselves up with their pride,
despising others, turning their backs upon the needy,
and the naked, and those who were hungry, and those
who were athirst, and those who were sick and afflict­
ed. Now this was a great cause for lamentations
246 BOOS OF A U IA .
among the people, while others were abasing them­
selves, succoring those who stood in need of their suc­
cor, such as imparting their substance to the poor and
the needy; feeding the hungry; and suffering all man­
ner of afflictions, thr Christ's sake, who should come
according to the spirit of prophecy, looking forward to
that day, thus retaining a remission of their sins; be­
ing filled with great joy, because of the resurrection of
the dead, according to the will, and power, and deliv­
erance of Jesus Christ from the bands of death.
And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen
the afflictions of the humble followers of God, and the
persecutions which were heaped upon them by the re­
mainder of his people, and seeing all their inequality,
began to be very sorrowful; nevertheless the spirit of
the Lord did not fail him. And he selected a wise
man who was among the elders of the church, and
gave him power according to the voice of the people,
that he might have power to enact laws according to
the laws which had been given, and to put them in
force, according to the wickedness and the crimes of
the people. Now this man’s name was Nephihah, and
he was appointed chief judge; and he sat in the judg­
ment seat, to judge and to govern the people. Now
Alma did not grant unto him the office of being high
priest over the chnrch, but he retained the office of
high priest unto himself; but he delivered the judg­
ment seat unto Nephihah: and this he did, that he
himself might go forth among his people, or among
the people of Nephi, that he might preach the word of
God unto them, to stir them up in remembrance of
their duty, and that he might pull down, by the word
of God, all the pride and craftiness, and ail the con­
tentions which were among his people, seeing no way
that he might reclaim them, save it were in bearing
down in pure testimony against them. And thus in
the commencement of the ninth year of the reign of
the judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered
up the judgment seat to Nephihah, and confined him­
self wholly to the high priesthood of the holy order
of God, to the testimony of the word, according to the
spirit of revelation and prophecy.
b o o k o r a l m a - 247
CHAPTER HI.
Thewords which Alma, the High Priest, according to the
holy order of God, dcheered to ike people in their
cities and villages throughout the land.
Now it came to pass that Alma began to deliver the
word of God unto the people, first in the land of Zara-
hernia, and from thence throughout all the land. And
these are the words which he spake to the people in
the church which was established in the city of Zara-
liemla, according to his own record, saying: I Alma,
having been consecrated by my father Alma, to be a
high priest over the church of God, he having power
and authority from God to do these things, behold, I
say unto you, that he began to establish a church in
the land which was in the borders of Nephi; yea, the
land which was called the land of Mormon; yea, and iie
did baptize his brethren in the waters ofMormon. And
behold, I say untoyou, they were delivered out of the
hands ofthe people ofkingNoah, by the mercy and pow­
er of God. And behold, after that, they were brought
into bondage by the hands ofthe Lamanites, in the wild­
erness; yea, 1say untoyou, they were in captivity, and
again the Lord did deliver them out of bondage by the
power of his word; and we were brought into this land
and here we began to establish the church of God
throughout this land also. And now behold, I say unto
you, my brethren, you that belong to this church, have
you sufficiently retained in remembrance the captivity
ofyour fathers? Yea, and have you sufficiently retained
in remembrance his mercy and long-suffering towards
them? And moreover, have ye sufficiently retained in
remembrance that he has delivered their souls from
hell? Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awak­
ed them out of a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God.
Behold, they were in the midst of darkness; neverthe­
less, their souls were illuminated by the light of the
everlasting word; yea, they were encircled about by
the bands of death, and the chains of hell, and an ever­
lasting destruction did await them. And now I ask of
you my brethren, were they destroyed? Behold, I say
unto you, nay, they were not. And again I ask, were
the bands of death broken, and the chains of hell which
encircled them about, were they loosed? I say unto
you, yea, they wereloosed, and ineir souls did expand,
and they did sing redeeming love. And I say unto
2 4 8 BOOK OF AX.HA.
you, that they are saved,. And now I ask of you on
what conditions are they saved? Yea, what grounds
had they to hope for salvation I What is the cause
of their being loosed from the bands of death? Yea,
and also, the chains of hell? Behold, I can tell you:
did not my father Alma believe in the words which
were delivered by tiie mouth of Ahinadi? And was
he not a ioly prophet? Did he not speak the word*
of God, and my father Alma believe them? And ac­
cording to his faith there was a might}’change wrought
in his heart. Behold 1 say unto you, that this is all
true. And behold, he preached the word unto your
fathers, and a mighty change was also wrought in
their hearts; and they humbled themselves, and put
their trust in the true and living God. And behold,
they were faithful until the end; therefore they were
saved. And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren
of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?
Have ye received his image in your countenances?
Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts?
Do ye exercise faith in the redemption ofhim who cre­
ated you? Do you look forward with an eye offaith, and
view this mortal body raised in immtorality, and this
corruption raised in incorruption, to stand before God,
to be judged according to the deeds which have been
done in the mortal body? I say unto you, can you
imagine to yourselves that ye hear the voice of the
Lord, saying unto you, in that day, come unto me ye
blessed, for behold, your works have been the works
of righteousness upon the face of the earth? Or do ye
imagine to yourselves that ye can lie unto the Lord in
that day, and say, Lord, our works have been right­
eous works upon the face of the earth, and that he
will save you? Or otherwise, can ye imagine your­
selves brought before the tribunal of God, with your
souls filled with guilt and remorse; having a remem­
brance of all your guilt; yea, a perfect remembrance
of all your wickedness; yea, a remembrance that ye
have set at defiance the commandments of Godt I
say unto you, can ye look up to God at that day with
a pure heart and clean hands? I say unto you, can
you look up, having the image of God engraven upon
your countenances? I say unto you, can ye think of
being saved when you have yielded yourselves to be­
come subjects to the devil? I say unto you, ye will
know at that day, that ye cannot be saved: for then*
can do man be saved except his garments are washed
BOOK or AJ.MA. 5249
white: yea, his garments must be purified until they
are cleansed from all stain, through the blood of him
of whom it has been spoken by our fathers who should
come to redeem bis people from their sins. And now
I ask of you, my brethren, how will any of you feel, if
ye shall stand before tlse bar of God, having your gar­
ments Btained with blood, and all manner offilthiness!
Behold, what will these things testify against you?
Behold, will they not testify that ye are murderers,
yea, and also that ye are guilty of all manner of wick­
edness? Behold, my brethren, do ye suppose that
such an one can have a place to sit down in the king­
dom of God, with Abraham, with Isaac, and with
Jacob, and also all the holy prophets, whose garments
are cleansed, and are spotless, pure and white? 1 say
unto you, nay, except ye make our Creator a liar from
the beginning, or suppose that he is a liar from the be­
ginning, ye cannot suppose that such can have place
in the kingdom of heaven, but they shall be cast out,
for they are the children of the kingdom of the devil.
And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, if ye
have experienced a change of heart, and if ye have
felt to sing the song of redeeming love, I would ask,
can ye feel so now? Have ye walked, keeping your­
selves blameless before God? Could ye say, if ye
were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that
ye have been sufficiently humble? That your gar­
ments have been cleansed and made white, through the
blood of Christ, who will come to redeem liis people
from their sins? Behold, are ye stripped of pride?
I say unto you, if ye are not, ye are not prepared to
meet God. Behold ye must prepare quickly, tor the
kingdom of heaven is soon at hand, and such an one
hath not eternal life. Behold, I say, is there one
among you who is not stripped of envy? I say unto
you, that such an one is not prepared, and I would
that he should prepare quickly, for the hour is close
at hand, and he knoweth not when the time shall
come; for such an one is not found guiltless.
And again 1 say unto you, is there one among yon
that doth make a mock of his brother, or that heapeth
upon him persecutions? Wo unto snch an one, for
he is not prepared, and the time is at hand that he
most repent, or he cannot be saved; yea, even wo in ­
to all ye workers of iniquity; repent, repent, for the
Lord God hath spoken it Behold, he sendeth an in­
vitation unto all men; for the arms of mercy are ex-
250 BOOK OF AUTA.
tended towards them, and he saith, repent, and I
will receive you: yea, he saith, come unto me and
ye shall partake of the fruit of the tree of life; yea, ye
shall eat and drink of the bread and lire waters of life
freely; yea, come unto me and bring forth works of
righteousness, and ye shall not be hewn down and
cast into tire fire: for behold, the lime is at hand that
whosoever bringelh forth not good fruit, or whosoever
doeth not the works of righteousness, tiro same have
cause to wail and mourn, O ye workers of iniquity:
ye that are puffed up in the vain things of the world:
ye tiial have professed to have known the ways of
righteousness; nevertheless have gone astray, as sheep
having no shepherd, notwithstanding a shepherd hath
called after you, and art still calling after you, but ye
will not hearken unto his voice, Behold, I say unto
you, that the good shepherd doth call you; yea, and
in his own name he doth call you, which is the name
of Christ; and if ye will not hearken unto the voice
of the good shepherd, to the name by which ye are
called, behold, ye are not the sheep of the good shep­
herd. And now if ye are not the sheep of the good
shepherd, of what fold are yet Behold, I say unto
you, that the devil is your shepherd, and ye are of his
fold; and now who can deny this? Behold, I say un­
to you, whosoever denielh this, is a liar and a child
of the devil; for I say unto you, that whatsoever
is good, cocneth from God, and whatsoever is evil,
cometlr from the devil; therefore, if a man bring-
eth forth good works, he hearkeneth unto the voice of
the good shepherd, and Ire doth follow him; but who­
soever bringeth forth evil works, the same becometh a
child of the devil: for he hearkeneth unto his voice,
and doth follow him. And whosoever doeth this
must receive his wages of him; therefore, for his wa­
ges he receiveth death, as to things pertaining unto
righteousness, being dead unto all good works. And
now my brethren, 1 would that ye should hear me, for
I speak in the energy of my soul; for behold, I have
spoken unto you plain, that ye cannot err, or have
spoken according to the commandments of God. For
I am called to speak after this manner, according to
the holy order of God, which is in Christ Jesus; yea,
I am commanded to stand and testify unto this people
the things which have been spoken by our fathers,
concerning the things which are to come. And this
is not all. Do ye not suppose that 1^knowsof these
BOOK OF ALMA.
things myself? Behold, I testify unto yon, that I do
know that these things whereof X have spoken, are
true. And how do ye suppose that 1 know of their
surety? Behold, I say unto you, they arc made
known unto me by the holy spirit of God. Behold, X
have fasted and prayed many days, that I might know
these things of myself. And now I do know of myself
that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them
manifest unto me by his holy spirit; and this is the
spirit of revelation which is in me. And moreover, I
say unto you, that as it has thus been revealed unto
me, that the words which have been spoken by our
fathers, are true, even so according to the spirit of
prophecy, which is in me, which is also by the mani­
festation of the spirit of God, Isay unto you, that I
know of myself that whatsoever I shall say unto you
concerning that which is to come, is true; and I say
unto you, that I know that Jesus Christ shall come;
yea, the Son, the only begotten of the Father, full of
grace, and mercy, and truth. And behold, it is he that
cometh to takeaway the sins of the world; yea, the sins
of every man who steadfastly believeth on his name.
And now 1 say unto you, that this is the order af­
ter which I am called; yea, to preach unto my beloved
brethren; yea, and every one that dwelleth in the
land; yea, to preach unto all, both old and young,
both bond and free: yea, 1 say unto you, the aged,
and also the middle aged, and the rising generation;
yea, to cry unto them that they must repent and be
f)orn again; yea, thus saith the spirit, repent all ye
ends of the earth, for the kingdom of heaven is soon
at hand; yea, the Son of God cometh in his glory, in
his might, majesty, power and dominion. Yea, my
beloved brethren, I say unto you, that the spirit saith,
behold the glory of the king of all the earth: and also
the King ofjieavon shall very soon shine forth among
all the children of men; and also the spirit saith unto
me, yea, crieth unto me with a mighty voice, saying,
go forth and say unto this people, repent, for except
ye repent ye can in no wise inherit the kingdom of
heaven. And again 1 say unto you, the spirit saith,
behold, the axe is laid at the root of the tree; there­
fore every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall
be hewn down and cast into the fire: yea, a fire which
cannot be consumed; even an unquenchable fire. Be­
hold, and remember, the holy one hath spoken it,—
And now my beloved brethren, I say unto you, can y*
251
252 BOOK OF AIM A.
withstand these sayings; yea, can ye lay,aside these
tilings, and trample the holy' one under your feet: yea,
can ye be puffed up in the pride of your hearts; yea,
will ye still persist in the wearing of costly apparel,
and selling your hearts upon the vain tilings of the
world, upon your riches; yea, will ye persist in sup­
posing that ye are better one than another; yea, wiii
ye persist in the persecutions of your brethien, who
humble themselves, and do walk alter the holy order
of God, wherewith they have been brought into this
church, iiaving been sanctified by the holy spirit; and
they do bring forth works which are meet for repent­
ance; yea, and will you persist in turning your backs
upon the poor, and the needy, and in withholding
your substance from them? And finally, all ye that
will persist in your wickedness, l say unto you, that
these are they who shall be hewn down and cast into
the fire, except they speedily repent.
And now I say unto you, all you that are desirious
to follow the voice of the good shepherd, come ye out
from tiie wicked, and be ye separate, and touch not
their unclean things; and behold, their names shall be
blotted out, that the names of the wicked shall not be
numbered among the names of the righteous, that the
word ofGod may be fulfilled, which saith, the names of
the wicked shall not he mingled with the names ofmy
people. For the names of the righteous shall be written
in the book of life; and unto them will I grant an inher­
itance at my light hand. And now my brethren, wbat
have ye to sav against this? I say unto you, if ye speak
against it, it matters not, for the word of God must
be fulfilled. For what shepherd is there among you
having many sheep, doth not watch over them, that
the wolves enter not and devour his flock? And be­
hold, if a wolf enter his flock, doth lie not drive him
out? Yea, and at the last, if he can, he will destroy
him. And now I say unto you, that the good shep­
herd doth call after you; and if you will hearken unto
his voice, he will bring you into his fold, and ye am
his sheep; and he commandeth you that ye suffer no
ravenous wolf to euter among you, that ye may not
be destroyed.
And now I, Alma, do command you in the language
of him who hath commanded me, that ye observe to
do the words which I have spoken unto you. I speak
by way of commend unto you that belong- to the
church; and unto those who do not belong to the
BOOK OF ALMA. 263
church, I speak by way of invitation, saying, come
and be baptized unto repentance, that ye also may be
partakers of the fruit of the tree of life. ,/ ■
*
CHAPTER.IV.
Aero now it catne to pass that after Alma had made
an end of speaking unto the people of the church,
which was established in the city of Zarahemla, he
ordained priests and elders, by laying on his hands
according to tlie order of God, to preside and watch
over the church. And it came to pass that whosoev­
er did not belong to the church who repented of their
sins, were baptized unto repentance, and were receiv­
ed into the church. And it also came to pass that
whosoever did belong to the church, that did not re­
pent of their wickedness, and humble themselves be­
fore God; I mean those who were lifted up in the
pride of their hearts; the same were rejected, and
their names were blotted out, that^their names were
not numbered among those of the righteous; and thus
they began to establish the order of the church in the
city of Zarahemla. Now I would that ye should un­
derstand that the word of God was liberal unto all; that
none were deprived of the privilege of assembling
themselves together to hear the word of God; never­
theless the children of God were commanded that they
should gather themselves together oft, and join in fast­
ing and mighty prayer, in behalf of the welfare of the
souls of those who knew not God.
t And now it came to pass that when Alma had made
these regulations, he departed from them, yea, from
the church which was in the city of Zarahemla, and
went over npon the east of the river Sidon, into the
valley of Gideon, there having been a city built which
was called the city of Gideon, which was in the val­
ley that was called Gideon, being called after the man
who was slain by the hand of Nehor with the sword.
And Alma went and began to declare the word of God
unto the church which was established in the valley
of Gideon; according to the revelation of the truth _of
the word which had been spoken by .'his fathers, and
according to the spirit of prophecy which was in him,
according to the testimony of Jesus Christ, the Son of
254 BOOS OF a l m a ;
God, who should come to redeem *
his people from
their sins, and the holy order by which he was called.
And thus it is written. Amen;
The w o rd s o f A lm a w hich ke d elivered to the people in
Gideon, according to his own record.
Bkucld my beloved brethren, seeing that I have
been permitted to come unto you, therefore I attempt
to address you in my language; yea, by my own
mouth, seeing that it is the hirst time that 1 have
6poken unto you by the words of my mouth, I having
been wholly confined to the judgment seat, having
had much business that I could not come unto you;
and even I could not have come now at this time, were
it not that the judgment seat hath been given to an­
other, to reign in my stead; and the Lord in much
mercy hath granted that I should come unto you.—
And behold, I have come having great hopes and
much desire that l should find that ye had humbled
yourselves before God, and that ye had contuiued iu
the supplicating of his grace, that I should find that
ye were blameless before him; that I should find that
ye were not in the awful dilemma that our brethren
were in at Zarahemla; but blessed be the name of
God, that he hath given me to know, yea, hath given
unto me the exceeding great joy of knowing that they
are established again in the way of his righteousness.
And l trust, according to the spirit of God which is in
me, that I shall also have joy over you; nevertheless I
do not desire that my joy over you, should come by the
cause of so much afflictions and sorrow which.1 have
had for the brethren at Zarahemla: for behold, nayjoy ,
cometh over them after wading through much afflic­
tions and sorrow. But behold, I trust that ye are not
in a state of so much unbelief as were-your brethren:
l trust that ye are not lifted up in the pride of your
hearts; yea, I trust that ye have not set your hearts up­
on riches, and the vain things of the world; yea, I trust
that you do not worship idols, but that ye do worship
the true and the living God, andthat ye look forward
CHAPTER V.
BOOK OF AMLA. 2555
for the remission of your sins with an everlasting lhith
which is to come. For behold,jl say unto you, there
be many tilings to come; and behold, there is one
thing which is of more importance than they all: for
behold, the time is not far distant, that the Redeemer
liveth and comelh among his people. Behold, I do
not say that he will come among us at the time of bis
dwelling in his mortal tabernacle; for behold, the spir­
it hath not said unto me that this should be the case.
.Now as to this tiling 1 do not know; but this much 1
do know, that the Lord God hath power to do all
things which are according to his word. But behold,
the spirit hath said this much unto rne, saying: cry
unto this people, saying, repent ye, and prepare the
way of the Lord, and walk in his paths, which are
straight; for behold, the kingdom of heaven is at hand,
and the Son of God comelh upon the face of the earth.
And behold, he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem,
whicii is the land of our forefathers, she being a vir­
gin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be over­
shadowed, and conceive by the power of the Holy
Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son of
God; and he shall go fortlfj* suffering pains, and af­
flictions, and temptations ofeveryjtmd; and this that
the word might be fulfilled which"'saitb, he will take
upon him lire pains and the sicknesses of his people;
and he will take upon him death, that he may loose
the bands of death which bind his people: and he will
lake upon him their infirmities, that his bowels may
be filled with mercy, according to the flesh that he
may know according to the flesh how to succor his
people according to their infirmities. Now the spirit
knoweth all things; nevertheless the Son of God suf-
tereth according to the flesh, that he might take upon
him the sins of his people, that he might blot out their
transgressions, according to the power of his deliver­
ance; and now behold, this is the testimony which is
in me. Now I say unto you, that ye must repent,
and be born again: for the spirit saith, if ye are not
born again, ye cannot inherit the kingdom of heaven;
therefore come and be baptized unto repentance, that
ye may be washed from your sins, that ye may have
faith on the Lamb of, God, who taketh away the sins
of the world, who is mighty to save and to cleanse
from all unrighteousness; yea, I say unto you, come
and-fear not, and lay aside every, sin, which easily
doth beset you, wliich doth bind you down to destruo-
256 BOOK OF ALMA.
tion; yea, come and go forth, and shew nnto your
God that ye are willing to repent of your sins, and
enter into a covenant with him to keep his command­
ments, and witness it unto him this day, by going in­
to the waters of baptism; and whosoever doeth this,
and keepeth the commandments of God from thence­
forth, the same will remember that I say unto him,
yea, he will remember that 1 have said unto him, ho
shall have eternal life, according to the testimony of
the Holy Spirit, which testifieth in me. And now
my beloved brethren, do you believe these things? Be­
hold, I say unto you, yea, I know that ye believe
them; and the way that I know that ye believe them,
is by the manifestation of the spirit which is in me.
And now because your faith is strong concerning that,
yea, concerning the things which I have spoken,
great is my joy. For as 1 said unco yon from the be­
ginning, that I had much desire that ye were not in
the state of dilemma like your brethren, even so I
have found that my desires have been gratified. For
I perceive that ye are in the paths of righteousness; I
perceive that ye are in the path which leads to the
kingdom of God; yea, I perceive that ye are making
his paths straight; I perceive that it has been made
known unto you by the testimony of Iris word, that
he cannot walk in crooked paths; neither doth he va­
ry from that which he hath said; neither hath he a
shadow of turning from the right to the left, or from
that which is right to that which is wrong; therefore,
his course is one eternal round. And Tie doth not
dwell in unholy temples; neither can filthiness, or
any thing which is unclean be received into the king-
gom of God; therefore I say unto you, the time shall
come, yea, and it shall be at the last day, that he who
is filthy, shall remain in his filthinesB-
And now my beloved brethren, I have said these
things unto you, that I might awaken you to a sense
of your duty to God, that ye may walk blameless be­
fore him; that ye may walk after the holy order of
God, after which ye have been received. And now I
would that ye should be humble, and be submissive,
»and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience
and long suffering; being temperate in all things; be­
ing diligent in keeping the conimandments of God at
all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in
need, both spiritual and temporal;-' always returning
thanks nntoGod for whatsoever things ye do receive,
BOOK OP ALMA. 257
and see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and
then ye will always abound in good works; and may
the Lord bless you, and keep your garments spotless,
that ye may at lasl.be brought to sit down with Abra­
ham, Isaac and Jacob, and the holy prophets, who
have been ever since the world began, having your
garments spotless, even as their garments are BpotieBS
in the kingdom of heaven, to go no more out. >
And now my beloved brethren, I have spoken these
words unto you, according-to the spirit which testi-
fieth in me; and my soul doth exceedingly rejoice,'be­
cause of the exceeding diligence and heed which ye
have given unto my word. And now, may the .peace
of God rest upon you, and upon your'houses and
lands, and upon your flocks and herds, and all that
you possess; your women and your children, accord­
ing to your faith and good works, from this time forth
and forever. And thus I have spoken. Amen.
CHAPTER VI.
A nd now it came to pass that Alma returned from
the land of Gideon, after having taught the people of
Gideon many things which cannot be written, having
established the order of the church, according as he
had before done in the land of Zarahemlu; yea, he re­
turned to his own house at Zarahemia to rest himself
from the labors which he had^performed. And thus
ended the ninth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass in the commencement of the
tenth year of the reign of the judges over the people
of Nephi, that Alma departed from thence, and took
his journey over into the land of Melek, on the west
of the river Sidon, on the west, by the borders of the
wilderness: and he began to teach the people in the
land of Melek, according to the holy order of God by
which he had been called; and he began to teach the
people throughout all the land of Melek. .-ml
And it came to pass that the people came to him
throughout all the borders of the land which was by
the wilderness side., And they were baptized through­
out all the land, so that when he had finished his work
x2
258 BOOK OF ALMA.
at Melek, he departed thence, and travelled three
days' journey on the north of the land of Melek; and
lie came to a city which was called Amtnonihah.—
Now it was the custom of the people ofNephi, to call
their lands, and their cities, and their villages, yea,
even all their small villages, after the name of him
who first possessed them; and thus it was with the
land of Aimnonihah.
And it came to pass that when Alma had come to
the city of Ammonihah, he began to preacii the word
of God unto them. Now satan had gotten great hold
upon the hearts ofthe people ofthe city ofAmmonihah;
therefore they would not hearken unto the words of Al­
ma. Nevertheless Alma labored much in the spirit,
wrestling with God in mighty prayer, that lie would
pour out his spirit upon the people who were in the city;
that he would also grant that he might baptize them
unto repentance; nevertheless, they hardened their
hearts, saying unto him, behold, we know that thou
art Alma; and we know that thou art high priest over
the church which thou hast established in many parts
of the land, according to your tradition; and we are
not of thy church, and we do not believe in such fool­
ish traditions. And now we know that because we
are not of thy church, we know that thou hast no pow­
er over us; and thou hast delivered up the judgment
seat unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief
judge over us. Now when the people iiad said this,
and had withstood ail his words, and reviled him, and
spit upon him, and caused that he should he cast out
of their city, he departed thence and took his journey
towards the city whioh>was called Aaron.
And it came to pass that while he was journeying
thither, being weighed down with sorrow, wading
through much tribulation and anguish of soul, because
of the wickedness of the people who were in the city
of Ammonihah, it came to pass that while Alma was
thus weighed down with sorrow, behold an angel of
the Lord appeared unto him, saying, blessed art thou,
Alma; therefore lift up thy head and rejoice, for thou
hast great cause to rejoice: for thou hast been faithful
in keeping the commandments of God from the time
which thou received thy first message from him. Be­
hold, I am he that delivered it unto you; and behold,
I am sent to command thee that thou return to the
eity of Ammonihah, and preach again unto the people
of the city; yea, preach unto them. Yea, say„unta
BOOK' or ALKA. 259
them, except they repent, the Lord God will destroy
them. For behold, they- do study at this time that
they may destroy the liberty of thy people, (for thus
saith the Lord,) which is contrary to the statutes, and
judgments, and commandments which he has given
unto his people.
Mow it came to pass that after Alma had received
his message from the angel of the Lord, he returned
speedily to the land of Ammonihah. And he entered
the city by another way, yea, by the way which is on
the south of the city of Ammonihah. And as he en­
tered the city he was an hungered, and he said to a
man, will ye give to an humble servant of God some­
thing to eat? And the man said unto him, I am aNe-
phite, and I know that thou art a holy prophet of
God, for thou art the man whom an angel said in a
vision, thou shalt receive; therefore go with me into
my house, and I will impart unto thee of my food; and
I know that thou will be a blessing unto me and my
house. And It came to pass that the man received
him into his house; and the man was called Amulek;
and he brought forth bread and meat, and sat before
Alma.
And it came to pass that Alma ate bread and was
filled; and he blessed Amulek and his house, and he
gave thanks unto God. And after he had eat and was
tilled, he said unto Amulek, I am Alma, and am the
high priest over the church of God throughout the
land. And behold, I have been called to preach the
word of God among all this people,' according to the
spirit of revelation and prophecy; and I was in this
land, and they would not receive me, but they cast me
out, and I was about to set my back towards this land
forever. -But behold, I have been commanded that I
should turn again and prophesy unto this people, yea,
and to testify against them concerning their iniquities.
And now Amulek, because thou hast fed me and took
me in, thou art blessed: for 1 was an hungered, for I
had fasted many days; And Alma tarried many dayea
with Amulek, before he began to preach unto the peo- w
pie. »
. ■
And it came to pass that the people did wax more *
gross in their iniquities, And the word came to Al-
iua, saying, go; and also say unto my servant Amu­
lek, go forth and prophesy unto this people,;saying,
repent ye, for thus saith the Lord, except ye repent, I
will visit this:people in miue anger; yea, and 1 .will
2 6 0 SOUK OF ALMA.
not turn my fierce anger away. -And Alma went
forth, and also Amulek, among the people, to declare
the words of God unto them; and they were filled
■with the Holy Ghost; and they had power given unto
them, insomuch that they could not be confined in
dungeons; neither were it possible that any man could
slay them; nevertheless they did not exercise their
power until they were bound in bands and cast into
prison. Now this was done that the Lord might show
forth his power in them.
And it came to pass that they went forth and began
to preach and to prophesy unto the people, according
to jthe spirit and power which the Lord had given
them.
t .
CHAPTER VII.
The words of Alma, and also ikewords of Amulek which
were declared un'o the people who were in the land of
Ammonihah. And also they are cast into prison, and
delivered by the miraculous power of God which teas
tn them, according to the record of Alma.
Asmagain: I Alma, having been commanded of God
that I ^should take Amulek and go forth and preach
again unto this people, or the people who were in the
city of Ammonihah, it came to pass as I began to
preach unto them, they began to contend with me,
saying, who art thou? Suppose ye that we shall be­
lieve the testimony of one man, although he should
preach unto us that the earth should pass away? Now
they understood not the words which they spake; for
they knew not that the earth should pass away. And
they said also, we will not believe thy words, if thou
ahouldst prophesy that this great city should be des­
troyed in 'one day. Now they knew not that God
could do such marvelous works, for they were a hard
hearted and a stiffnecked people. And they said who
is God, that sendeth no more authority than one man
among this people, to declare unto them the truth of
such great and marvelous things? And they Blood
forth to lay their hands on me; but behold, they did
not. And I stood with boldness to declare unto them,
BOOK o r ALMA. 261
yea, I did boldly testify unto them, saying: behold, O
ye wicked and perverse generation, how have ye for­
gotten the tradition of your fathers; yea, how soon ye
have forgotten the commandments of God. Do ye
not remember that our father Lehi was brought'.out of
Jerusalem by the hand of God? Do ye not remember
that they were all led by him.through the wilderness?
And have ye forgotten so soon how many times he de­
livered our fathers out of the hands of their enemies,
and preserved them from being destroyed, even by the
hands of their own brethren? .Yea, and.if it had not
been for his matchless power, and his mercy, and his
long suffering towards us, we should unavoidably have
been cut off from the face of the earth, long before this
period of time, and perhaps been consigned to a state
of endless misery and wo. Behold, now I say unto
you, that he commandeth you to repent; and except
ye repent, ye can in no wise inherit ibe kingdom of
God. But behold, this is not all: he has commanded
you to repent, or he will utterly destroy you from off
the face of the earth; yea, he will visit you in his an­
ger, and in his fierce anger he will not turn away.—
Behold, do ye not remember the words which he spake
unto Lehi, saying, that inasmuch as ye shall keep my
commandments, ye shall prosper in the land? And
again it is said, that inasmuch as ye will not keep my
commandments, ye shall be cut off from the presence
of the Lord. Now I would that ye should remember,
that inasmuch as the Lamanites have not kept the
commandments of God, thi ' ’ m "
of the Lord has been verified in this thing, arid the
Lamanites have been cut off from his presence, from
the beginning of their transgressions in the land.—
Nevertheless £ say unto you, that it shall be more tol­
erable for them in the day of judgment, than for you,
if ye remain in your sins: yea, and even more tolera­
ble for them in this life, than for yob, except ye repent,
for there are many promises which are extended to
the Lamanites: for it is because of the traditions of
their fathers that cause them to remain in their slate
of ignorance; therefore the Lord willhe merciful unto
them, and prolong their existance in the land. And
at some period of t ime they will be brought to believe
in his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the
traditions of their fathers; and many of them will be
saved, for the .Lord will be merciful unto all who call
the presence of the Lord.
262 BOOK OF ALMA.
on his name. But behold, I say unto'you, that if ye
persist in your wickedness, that your days shall not be
prolonged in the land, for the Lamaniles shall be sent
upon you; and if ye repent not, they shall come in a
time when you know not, and ye shall be visited with
utter destruction; and it shall be according to the fierce
anger of the Lord; for he will not sufter you that ye
shall live in your iniquities, to destroy his people.—
1say unto you, nay; he would rather suffer that the
Lamanites might destioy all this people who are call­
ed the people of Nephi, if it were possible that they
could full into sins and transgressions, after having had
so much light and so much knowledge given unto
them of the Lord their God; yea, after having been
such a highly favored people of the Lord; yea, after
having been favored above every other nation, kin­
dred, tongue or people: after having had all things
made known unto them, according to their desires,
and their faith, and prayers, of that which has been,
and which is, and which .is to come; having been vis­
ited by the spirit of God; having conversed with
angels, and having been spoken unto by the voice of
the Lord; and having the spirit of prophecy, and the
spirit of revelation, and also many gifts: the gift of
speaking with tongues, and the gift of preaching, and
the gift of the Holy GhoBt, and the gift of translation:
!
rea, and after having been delivered of God out of the
and of Jerusalem, by the hand of the Lord; having
been saved from famine, and from sickness, and all
manner of diseases of every kind; and they having
been waxed strong in battle, that they might not be
destroyed; having been brought out of bondage time
after lime, and having been kept and preserved until
now; and they have been prospered until they are
rich in all manner of things. And now behold 1 say
unto you, that if this people, wiio have received so
many blessings from the hand ofthe Lord, should trans­
gress, contrary to the light and knowledge which they
do have; 1 say unto you, that if this be the case; that
if they should fall into transgression, that it.would be
far more tolerable for the Lamanites than for them.—
For behold, the promises of the Lord are extended to
the Lamanites, but they are not unto you, ifye trans­
gress: for has not the Lord expressly promised and
firmly decreed, that if ye will rebel against him, that
ye shall utterly be destroyed from oft' lira face of the
earth1 And now for this cause, that ye may not be
BOOK OF 4X 1U . 263
destroyed, the Lord has sent his angel to visit many
of his people, declaring unto them that they must go
forth and cry mightily unto this people, saying, repent
ye, for the kingdom of heaven is nigh at hand; and’
not many days hence, the Son of God shall come in
his glory; and his glory shall be the glory of the only
begotten of the Father, full of grace, equity and truth,
full of patience, mercy, and long suffering, quick to
hear the cries of his people, and to answer their pray­
ers. And behold, he comelh to redeem those who will
be baptized unto repentance, through faith on his
name; therefore prepare ye the way of the Lord, for
the time is at hand that all men shall reap a reward of
their works, according to that which they have been;
if they have been righteous, they shall reap the salva­
tion of their souls, according to the power and deliv­
erance of Jesus Christ; and if they have been evil,
they shall reap the damnation of their souls, according
to the power and captivation of the devil. Now be­
hold, this is the voice of the angel, crying unto the
people. And now my beloved brethren, for ye are my
brethren, and ye had ought to be beloved, and ye had
ought to bring forth works which are meet for repent­
ance, seeing that your hearts have been grossly hard­
ened against the word of God, and seeing that ye are
a lost and a fallen people.
Now it came to pass that when I, Alma, had spo­
ken these words, behold, the people were wroth with
me, because I said unto them that they was a hard­
hearted and a stiffnecked people; and also because I
said unto them that they were a lost and a fallen pea,
pie, they were angry with me, and sought to lay their
hands upon me, that they might cast me into prison;
but it came to pass that the Lord did not suffer them
that they should take me at that time and cast me in­
to prison.
And it came to pass that Amulek went and stood
forth, and began to preach unto them also. And now
the words of Amulek are not all written; nevertheless
a part of his words are written in this book.
264 BOOK OF ALMA.
CHAPTER VIII.
Now these are the words which Araulek preached
unto the people who were in the land of Ammoniliah,
saying: I am Amulek; I am the son of Giadonah,
who was the son of Iehinael, who was a descendant
of Aminadi: and it was that same Aminadi who inter­
preted the writing which was upon the wall of the
temple, which was written by the finger of God.—
And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the
son of Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem,
who was a descendant of Manassch, who was the son
of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt by the hands of
his brethren. And behold, I am also a man of no
small reputation among all those who know me; yea,
and behold, I have many kindreds and friends, and I
have also acquired much riches by the hand of my in­
dustry; nevertheless, after all this, I never have known
much of the ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and
marvelous power. I said I never had known much of
these things; but behold, I mistake, for I have seen
much of his mysteries and his marvelous power; yea,
oven in the preservation of the lives of this people;
nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called
many times, and I would not hear; therefore I knew
concerning these things, yet I would not know; there­
fore I went on rebelling against God, in the wicked-
ness of my heart, even until the fourth day of this sev­
enth month, which is in the tenth year of the reign of
thejudges. As I was jonrneying to see a very near
kindred, behold an angel of the Lord appeared unto
me, and said, Amulek, return to thine own house, for
thou shaft feed a prophet of the Lord; yea, a holy
man, who is a chosen man of God; for he has fasted
many days because of the sins of this people, and
he is an hungered, and thou shaft receive him into
thy house and feed him, and he shall-bless thee
and thv house; and the blessing of the Lord shall rest
upon thee and thy house.
And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the
angel, and returned towards my house. And as I was
going thither, I found the man whom the angel said
-unto me, thou shaft receive into thy bouse; ana behold
it was this same man who has been speaking unto you
concerning the things of God. And the angel skid
unto me, he is a holy man; wherefore I know he is a
holy man, because it was said by an angel of God.—
BOOK o r ALMA.
And again, I know that the things whereof he hath
testified are true: for behold, I say unto you, J.hat as
the Lord liveth, even so he has sent his angel to make
these things manifest unto me; and this he has done
while this Alma hath dwelt at my house; for behold,
he hath blessed mine house, he hath blessed me, and
my women, and my children, and my father, and my
kinsfolks; yea, even all my kindred hath he blessed,
and the blessing of the Lord hath rested upon us ac­
cording to the words which he spake.
And now when Amulek had spoken these words,
the people began to be astonished, seeing there wa»
more than one witness who testified of the things
whereof they were accused, and also of the things
which were io come, according to the spirit of proph­
ecy which was in them; nevertheless, there were some
among them who thought to question them, that by
their cunning devices they might catch them in their
words, that they might find witness against them, that
they might deliver them to the judges, that they might
be judged according to the law, and that they might
be stain or cast into prison, according to the criras
which they could make appear, or witness against
them. Now it was those men who sought to destroy
them, who were lawyers, who were hired or appointed
by the people to administer the law at their tunes of
trials, or at the trials of the crimes of the people, be­
fore the judges. Now these lawyers Were learned in
all the arts and cunning of the people; and this wan
to enable them that they might be skilful in their pro­
fession. And it came to pass that they began to ques­
tion Amulek, that thereby they might make him cross
his words, or contradict the words which he should
speak- Now they knew not that Amulek could know
of their designs. But it came to pass as they began
to question him, he perceived their thoughts, and ha
said unto them, O ye wicked and perverse generation; ♦
ye lawyers and hypocrites: for ye are laying the foun­
dations of the devil; for ye are laying traps and snares
to catch the holy ones ol God; yo are laying plans to f
pervert the ways of the righteous, and to bring-down
the wrath of Go 1upon your heads, even to the utter
destruction of this people; yea,, well did Mosiah say,
who was our last king, when he was about to deliver
np the kingdom, having no one to confer it upon,
.*causing that this people should lie governed by,their
2 6 5 ,
566 BOOK OF AI.M*.
own voices; yea, well did lie say, that if the time
should come that the voice ofthis people should choose
iniquity; that is, if the time should come that this
people should full into transgression, they would be
'ripe for instruction. And now I say unto you, that
well doth the Lord judge of your iniquities; well doth
he cry unto this people, by the voice of his angels, re­
pent ye, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Yea, well doth lie cry, by the voice of his angels, that
I will come down among my people, with equity and
justice in my hands. Yea, and 1 say unto you, that
"it".it were not for the prayers of the righteous, who
‘are now in the land, that ye would even now be visit­
ed with utter destruction; yet it would not be by flood,
as were the people in the days of Noah, but it would
*
1
x
1by famine, and by pestilence, and the sword. But
jit is by the prayers of the righteous that ye are spared;
now therefore if ye will cast out tire righteous from
among you, then will not the Lord stay bis hand, but
in liis tierce anger he will come out against you; then
ye shall be smitten by famine, and by pestilenefe, and
1>ythe sword; and the time is soon at hand, except ye
repent.
And now itcairie to pass that the people were more
angry with Amulek, and they cried out saying: this
man doth revile against our laws, which are just, and
our wise lawyers whom we have selected. But Amu­
lek stretched forth his hand, and cried the mightier
unto them, saying: O ye wicked and perverse genera­
tion; why hath satan got such great hold upon your
hearts? Why will ye yield yourselves unto him that
he may have power over you, to blind your eyes, that
ye will not understand the words which are spoken,
according to their truth? For behold, have I testified
against your law? Ye do not understand; ye say that
I have spoken against your law; but I have not; but
I have spoken in favorof your law, to your condemna­
tion. And now behold, 1 say unto you, that the foun­
dation of the destruction of this people is beginning to
be laid by the unrighteousness of your lawyer# and
your judges.
And now it came to pass that when Amulek had
spoken these words, the people cried out against him,
saying, now we know that this man is a child of the
devil, for he hath lied unto us; for he hath spoken
i against our law* And now he says that he has- not
B spoken against it. And again: be has reviled against
BOOK o r ALMA. 267..
our lawyers, and our judges, &c. And it came to pass
that the lawyers pul it into their hearts that they
should remember these things against him. And there!
was one among them whose name was Zeezrora.—
Now he was the foremost to accuse Amulek and Almaj:
he being one of the most expert among them, haying
much business to do among the people. Now the ob­
ject of these lawyers was to get gain; and they got
gain according to their employ.
Now it was in the law of Mosiah that every man
who was a judge of the law, or those who were appoin­
ted to be judges should receive wages according to the
time which they labored to judge those who were
brought before them to be judged.
Now if a man owed another, and he would not
pay that which he did owe, he was complained of to
the judge; and the judge executed authority, and sent,
forth officers that the man should be brought before
him; and he judged the man according to the law and
the evidences which were brought against him, and
thus the man was compelled to pay that which he ow­
ed, or be striped, or be cast out from among tile peo­
ple, as a thief and a robber. And the judge received
for his wages according to his time; a senine of gold
for a day, or a senuni of silver, which is equal to a se­
nine of gold; and this is according to the law which
was given. . Now these are the names of the different
pieces of their gold, and of their silver, according to
their value. And the names are given by tlie Nephites;J
for they did not reckon after the manner of the Jews
who were at Jerusalem; neither did they measure aft;
ter the manner of the Jews, but they altered their
reckoning and their measure, according to the minds;
and the circumstances of the people, in every genera­
tion, until tiie reign of the judges; they having been
established by king Mosiah. Now the reckoning is
thus: a senine of gold, a seOn of gold, a shum of gold,,
and a limnah of gold. A senum of silver, an amnor!
of silver, an ezrom of silver, and an onti of silver. A
senum of silver was equal to a senine of gold;.and ei­
ther for a measure of barley, and also for a measure of1,
every kind of grain. Now the amount of a seori d?/
gold, was twice tlie value of a senine; and a shum otf
gold was twice the value of a seon; and a limnah of?
gold was the value' of them all; and an amnor of sil-
ver was as great as two senums; and an ezrom of sil­
ver was, as great as four semimsjandan ohti was as
" i ' ' ■ 1 ■ ■' 1 ■ i
*6 8 BOOK OF ALMA.
great as them all. Now this is the value of the lesser
numbers of lheir reckoning: a shiblon is half of a se-
nurn; therefore a shiblon for half a measure of barley;
and a shibhun is a half of a shiblon; and a leah is the
half of a shiblum. Now this is their number, accord­
ing to their reckoning. Now an antion of gold is equal
to three shublons.
Now it was for the sole purpose to get gain, because
they received their wages according to their employ;
tlierefore they did stir up the people to riotings, and
all manner of disturbances and wickedness, that they
might have more employ; that they might get money
according to the suits which were brought before them;
therefore they did slir up the people against Alma and
Amulek. And this Zeezrom began to question Amu-
!ek, saying: will ye answer me a few questions which
J shall ask you? Now Zeezrom was a man who was
expert in the devises of the devil, that he might des­
troy that which was good; therefore he said unto Am­
ulek, will ye answer the questions which I shall put
unto you? And Amulek said unto him, yea, if it be
according to the spirit of the Lord, which is in me;
for I shall say nothing which is contrary to the spirit
of the Lord. And Zeezrom said unto him, behold,
here is six onties of silver, and all these will I give
thee if thou wilt deny the existence of a supreme be­
ing. Now Amulek said, O thou child of hell, why
tempt ye me? Knowest thou that the righteous yield-
eth to no such temptations? Believest thou that there
is no God’ I say unto you, nay: thou knowest that
there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more than
him. And now thou hast lied before God unto me.—
Thou said3t unto me, behold these six onties, which
are of great worth, I will give unto thee, when thou
had it m thy heart to retain them from me; and it
was only thy desire that I should deny the true and
living God, that thou migbtest have cause to destroy
me. And now behold, for this great evil thou shaft
have thy reward. And Zeezrom said unto him, thou
•ayest there is a true and living God? And Amulek
■aid, yea, there is a true and a living God. Now Ze­
ezrom said, is there more than one God? And bean-
awereth, no. Now Zeezrom said unto him again,
how knowest thou these things? And he said an an­
gel hath made them known unto me. And Zeezrom ,
■aid again, who is he that shall come? Is it the son 1
of Goa? And he said unto him, yea. And Zeezrom $
•aidagain, shall he save his people in their sins? And
Amulek answered and said unto him, 1 say unto yon
he shall not, for it is impossible for him to deny hi*
word.
Now Zeezrom said unto the people, see that ye re*
member these things; for he said there is but one God;
yet he saith that tiie Son of God shall come, but he
shall not save his people, as though he had authority
to command God. Now Amulek saith again unto
him, behold thou hast lied, for thou sayest that 1 spake
as though I had authority to command God, because
J said be shall not save his people in their sins. And
I say unto you again, that he cannot save them in
their sins: for 1 cannot deny his word, and he hath
said that no unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of
heaven; therefore how can ye'be saved, except ye in­
herit the kingdom of heaven? Therefore ye cannot
be saved in your sins. Now Zeezrom saith again unto
him, is the Son of God the very eternal Father? And
Amulek said unto him, yea, he is the very eternal Fa­
ther of heaven and of earth, and all things which in
them is; he is the beginning and the end, the 6rst and
the last; and he shall come into the world to redeem
his people; and he shall take upon him the transgres­
sions of those who believe on his name; and these aro
they that shall have eternal life, and salvation cometh
to none else; therefore the wicked remain as though
there had been no redemption made, except it be the
loosing of the bands of death; for behold, the day
cometh that all shall rise from the dead and stand be­
fore God, and be judged according to their works.—
Now there is a death which is called a temporal death;
and the death of Christ shall loose the bands of this
temporal death, that all shall be raised from this tem­
poral death; the spirit and the body shall be re-united
again, in its perfect form; both limb and joint shall be
restored to its proper frame, even as we now are at
this time; and we shall be brought to stand before
God, knowing even as we know now, and have a
bright recollection of all our guilt. Now this restora­
tion shall come to all, both old and young, both bond
and free, both male and female, both the wicked and
the righteous; and even there shall not so much as a
hair of their heads be lost; but all things shall-be.res­
tored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or m the body,
and shall be brought and be arraigned before the bar of
Christ the Son, and God the Father, and’the holy
HOOK. OF ALKA. 360’
270 BOOK OF AI.HA.
Spirit, which is one eternal God, to he judged accor­
ding to their works, whether they be good or whether
they be evil.
Now behold I have spoken unto you concerning the
death of the mortal body, and also concerning the res­
urrection of the mortal body. I say unto you, that
this mortal body is raised to an immortal body; that
is from death; even from the first death, unto life,
that they can die no more; their spirits uniting with
their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole be­
coming spiritual and immortal, that they can no more
see corruption.
Now when Amulek had finished these words, the
people began again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom
began to tremble. And thus ended the words of Am­
ulek, or this is all that I have written.
Now Alma, seeing that the words of Amulek had
silenced Zeezrom, for he beheld that Amulek had
caught him in his lying and deceiving, todestroy him,
and seeing that he began to tremble under a conscious­
ness of his guilt, he opened his mouth and began to
speak unto him, and to establish the words of Amu­
lek, and to explain things beyond, or to unfold the
scriptures beyond that which Amulek had done. Now
the words that Alma spake unto Zeezrom, were heard
by the people round about: for the multitude was
great, and he spake on this wise; aNow Zeezrom, see­
ing that thou hast been taken in;thy lying and, crafti­
ness, for thou hast not lied unto men only, but thou
hast lied unto God; for behold, he knows all thy
thoughts; and thou seest that thy thoughts are made
known unto us by. his spirit?, and thou seest that we
know that thy plan was a very subtle plan, as to the
subtlety of the devil, for to lie and to deceive this peo­
ple, that thou mighlest set them against us, to revile
us and to cast us out; Now this was a plan of thine
adversaryi and he hath exercised bis power ini thee.
y;Now I would that ye should-remember that what I
say unto thee, I say unto all. i And behold, I*say unto
ypu all, that this was a snare of the adversary, which
CHAPTER IX.
BOOK o r Al.KA. 27!
he ha* hid to catch this people, that he might bring
you into subjection unto him, that he might encircle
you about with hi* chains, that he might chain you
down to everlasting destruction, according to the pow-
cr of his captivity.
Now when Alma had spoken these words, Zeezrom
began to tremble more exceedingly, for he was con­
vinced more and more of the power of God; and he
was also convinced that Alma and Amulsh had a
knowledge of him, for he was convinced that they
knew the thoughts and intents of his heart: for power
was given unto them that they might know of these
things, according to the spirit of prophecy. And
Zeezrom began to inquire of them diligently, that he
might know more concerning the kingdom of God.—
And he said unto Alma, what does this mean which
Amulek hath spoken concerning the resurrection ofthe
dead, that all shall rise from the dead, both the just and
the unjust, and are brought to stand before God, to be
judged according to their worksl And now Alma be­
gan to expound these things unto him, saying, it is
given unto many to know the mysteries of God; nev­
ertheless they are laid under a strict command, that
they shall not imparl only according to the portion of
his word, which he doth grant unto the children of
men; according to the heed and diligence which they
give unto him; and therefore he that will harden his
heart, the same receivclh the lesser portion of the
word: and he that will not harden his heart, to~ him
is given the greater portion of the word, until it is
given unto him to know the mysteries of God, until
they know them in full; and they that will harden
their hearts, to them is given the lesser portion of the
word, until they know nothing concerning his myste­
ries; and then they are taken captive by the devil,
and led by his will down to destruction. Now this is
what is meant by the chains of hell; and Amulek hath
spoken plainly concerning death, and being raised
'from this mortality to a state of immortality, and be­
ing brought before the bar of God, to be judged ac­
cording to our works. Then if our hearts have been
hardened, yea, if we have hardened our hearts against
the word, insomuch that it has not been found In us,
then will our state be awfiil, for then we shall be con­
demned: for our words will condemn us, yea, all onr
Works will condemn as; we shall not be found spot-
less; and our thoughts will also condemn us; and it*
BOOK OK ALMA.
this awful slate, we shall not dare look up to our God;
and we would fain be glad if we could command the
rocks and the mountains to fall upon us, to hide us
from his presence. But this cannot be; we must
come forth and stand before him in his glory, and in
his power, and in his might, majesty, and dominion,
and acknowledge to our everlasting shame, that all
his judgments are just; that he is just in all his works,
and that he is merciful unto the children of men, and
that he has all power to save every man that believ*
eth on his name, and bringeth forth fruit meet for re*
pentance.
And now behold I say unto you, then cometh a
death, even a second death, which is a spiritual death;
then is a time that whosoever dieth in his sins, as to
a temporal death, shall also die a spiritual death; yea,
he shall die as to things pertaining unto righteous*
ness; then is the time when their torments shall be as
a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flames ascendeth
up forever and ever; and then is the time that they
•hall b3 chained down to an everlasting destruction,
according to the power and captivity of satan; he
having subjected them according to his will. Then I
say unto you, they shall be as though there had been
no redemption made; for they cannot he redeemed
according to God’s justice; and they cannot die, see*
ing there is no more corruption.
Now it came to pass that when Alma had made an
end of speaking these words, the people began to b*
more astonished; but there was one Antionah, who
was a chief ruler among them, come forth and said
unto him, what is this that thou hast said, that man
should rise from the dead and be changed from this
mortal to an immortal state, that the soul can never
die? What does this scripture mean, which snith that
God placed cherubims and a flaming sword on the
east of the garden of Eden, lest our first parents
should enter and partake of the fruit of the tree of
life, and live forever? And thus we see that there
was no possible chance that they should live forever.
Now Alma said unto him. this is the thing which I
was about to explain. Now we see that Adam did
fall by the partaking of the forbidden fruit, according
to the word of God; and thus we see, that by his fall,
all mankind became a lost and a fallen people. And
now behold, I say unto you, that if it had been possi­
ble for Adam to have partaken of tbefruit of the tra*
* 7 2
BOOK OF ALMA. 2 7 5
ef life at that time, there would have been no deaths
and the word would have been void, making God a
liar: for he said, if thou eat, thou shall surely die.—
And we s >c that death comes upon mankind, yea, the
death which has been spoken of by Amulek, which is
the temporal death; nevertheless there was a space
granted unto man, in which he might repent; there­
fore this life became a probationary state; a time to
prepare to meet God; a time to prepare for that end­
less slate, which has been spoken of by us, which is
after the resurrection of the dead. Now if it had not
been for the plan of redemption, which was laid from
the foundation of the world, there could have been no
resurrection of the dead; bnt there was a plan of re­
demption laid, which shall bring to pass the resurrec­
tion of the dead, of which has been spoken. And
now behold, if it were possible that our first parents
could have went forth and partaken of the tree of life,
they would have been forever miserable, having no
preparatory state; and thus the plan of redemption
would have been frustrated, and the word of God
would have been void, taking none effect. But be­
hold, it was not so; but it was appointed unto man
that they must die; and after death, they must come
to judgment; even that same judgment of which we
have spoken, which is the end. And after God bad
appointed that these things should come unto man,
behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man
should know concerning the things whereof he had
appointed unto them; therefore he sent angels to con­
verse with them, who caused men to behold of hia
glory. And they began from that time forth to call
on his name; therefore God conversed with men, and
made known unto them the plan of redemption, which
had been prepared from the foundation of the v.’orld;
and this he made known unto them according to their
faith and repentance, and their holy works; where­
fore he gave commandments unto men, they having
first transgressed the first commandments as to things
which were temporal, and becoming as gods, know­
ing good from evil, placing themselves in a state to
act, or being placed in a state to act according to their
wills and pleasures, whether to do evil or to do good:
therefore God gave unto them commandments, after
having made known unto them the plan of redemption,
that they should not do evil, the penalty thereof be­
ing a second death, which was an everlasting death
274 b o o k o r a l m a .
as to things pertaining unto righteousness; for on
such the plan of redemption could have no power, for
the works’of justice could not be destroyed, according
to the supreme goodness of God. But God did call
on men, in the nama of hie Son,’{this being the plan
of redemption wliich was laid,) saying: if ye will re­
pent, and harden not your hearts, then will I have
mercy* upon you,, through mine only begotten Son';
therefore, whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his
heart, he shall have claim on mercy through mine on­
ly begotten Son, unto a remission of his sins; and
these shall enter into my rest. And whosoever will
harden his heart, and will do iniquity, behold, I swear
in my wrath that he shall not enter into my rest.—
And now my brethren, behold I say unto yon, that if
ye will harden your hearts, ye shall not enter into the
rest of the Lord; therefore your iniquity provoketh
him,'that he sendeth down his wrath upon you as in
the.lirst provocation, yea, according to his word in the
last provocation, as well as the first, to the everlast­
ing destruction of your souls; therefore, according to
his word, unto-the last death, as well as the first.'-’
And now my brethren, seeing we know these
things, and they are true, let us repent, and harden
not our hearts, that we provoke not the Lord our God
to pull down his wrath upon us in these his second
commandments which he has given unto us; but let
us enter into the rest of God, which is prepared ac­
cording to his word. And again: my brethren, 1
would cite your minds forward to the time which tha
Lord God gave these commandments unto his child­
ren; and I would that ye should remember that the
Lord God ordained priests, after his holy order, which
was after the order of his Son, to teach these things
unto the people; and those priests were ordained a£
ter the order of his Son, in a manner that thereby the
people might know in what manner to look forward to
his Son for redemption, And this is the manner after
which they were ordained: being called and prepared
from the foundation of the world, according to tha
foreknowledge of God, on account of their exceeding
faith and good works; in the first place being left to
choose good or evil; therefore they having chosen
good, and exercising exceeding great faith, are called
with a holy calling, yea, with that holy calling which
was prepared with, and according to, a preparatory
redemption for such; and thus they have been called
to this holy calling on, account of their faith, while
others would reject the spirit of God on account of the
hardness of their hearts and blindness of their minds,
while, if it had not been for this, they might had as.
great privilege as their brethren. Or in line: in the
lirst place they were on the same standing with their
brethren; thus this holy calling being prepared from
the foundation of the world for such as would not
harden their hearts, being in and through the atone­
ment of the only begotten, Son, who was prepared^
and thus being called by this holy calling, and ordain-;
ed unto the high priesthood of the holy order of God,
to teach his commandments unto the children of men,
that they .also, might enter into his rest, this high,
priesthood being alter the order of his Son, which or­
der was from the foundation of the world: or in other
words, being without beginning of days or end of
years, being prepared from eternity to all eternity, ac­
cording to his foreknowledge of all things. Now they
were ordained after this manner: Being called with a
holy calling, and ordained with a holy ordinance, and
taking upon them the high priesthood of the holy or­
der, which calling, and ordinance, and high priest­
hood, is without beginning or end; thus they become
high priests forever, after the order of the Son, the
only begotten of the Father, who is without begin­
ning of days or end of years, who is full of grace,
equity and truth. And thus it is. Amen.
• A
^ • *
BOOK OF ALMA. 275
. , CHAPTER X, .
.. : • ( . .
Now as I said concerning the holy order of this
high piiesthood: there were many who were ordained
and became high priests of God; and it was on account
of their exceedingfaith arid repentance, and their right­
eousness before God, they choosing to repent and
work righteousness, rather than to perish; therefore
they were called after this holy order, and were sanc­
tified; and their garments were washedwhite,, through
the blood of the Lamb. Now they, alter being sanc­
tified by the Holy Ghost, having their garments made
white, being pure and spotless before God, could not
lookupon sin, save it were with abhorrence; -and there
S76 BOOK OF ALBA..
were many, exceeding great many, who were made
pure, and entered into the rest of ihe Lord their God.
And now, my brethren, I would that ye should hum*
ble yourselves before God, and bring forth fruit meet
for repentance, that yu may also enter into that rest;
yea, humble yourselves even as the people in the days
of Melchizedek, who was also a high priest after this
same order which 1 have spoken, who also took upon
him the high priesthood forever. And it was this
same Melchizedek to whom Abraham paid tithes; yea,
even our father Abraham paid tithes of one tenth part
of all he possessed. Now these ordinances were giv­
en after this manner, that thereby the people might
look forward on the Son of God, it being a type of his
order, or it being his order; and this, that they might
look forward to him for a remission of their sins, that
they might enter into the rest of the Lord.
Now this Melchizedek was a king over the land of
Salem; and his people had waxed strong in iniquity
and abominations; yea, they had all gone astray: they
were full of all manner of wickedness: but Melchize­
dek having exercised mighty faith, and received tbs
office of the high priesthood, according to the holy or­
der of God, did preach repentance unto his people.—
And behold, they did repent; and Melchizedek did es­
tablish peace in the land in his days; therefore he was
called the prince of peace, for he was the king of Sa­
lem; and he did reign under his father. Now there
were many before him, and also there were many af­
terwards, but none were greater; therefore of him they
have mare particularly made mention. Now I need
not rehearse the matter; what I have said, may suficc,
Behold, the seripturesare before you: if ye will wrest
them it shall be to your own destruction.
And now it came to pass that when Alma had said
these words unto them, he stretched forth his hand
unto them and cried with a mighty voice, saying, now
is the time to repent, for the day of salvation draweth
nigh: yea. and the voice of the Lord, by the mouth of
angels, doth declare it unto all nations; yea, doth de­
clare it, that they may have glad tidings of great joy:
yea, and he doth sound these glad tidings among all
nis people, yea, even to them that are scattered abroad
upon the face of the earth; wherefore they have come
unto us- And they are made known unto us in plain
terms, that we may understand, that we cannot err;
and this because of our being wanderers in a strange
BOOK O r ALMA. 277'-
land; therefore we are thug highly favored, for we
have these glad tidings declared unto us in ail parts of
our vineyard. For behold, angels are declaring it un­
to many at this time in our land; and this is for the
purpose of preparing the hearts of the children of men
to receive his word, at the time of his coming-in his
glory. And now we only wait to hear the joyful news
declared unto us by the mouth of angels, of his com­
ing; for the time cometh, we kno » not how soon.—
Would to God that it might he in my day; but let it bo
sooner or later, in it I will rejoice. And it shait be
made known unto just and holy men, by the mouth of
angels, at the time of his coming, that Che words of
our fathers may be fulfilled, according to that which
they have spoken concerning him, which was accord­
ing to the spirit of prophecy which was in them.
And now my brethren, i wish from the inmost part
of my heart, yea, with great anxiety, even unto pain,
that ye would hearken unto my words, and cast off
your sins, and not procrastinate tiie day of your re­
pentance; but that ye would humble yourselves before
the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and
pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above
that which ye can bear, and thus he led by the holy
spirit, becoming humble, meek, submissive, patient,
full of love and all long suffering; having faith on tha
Lord; having a hope that ye shall receive eternal life;
having the love of God always in your hearts, that ye
may be lifted up at the last day, and enter into his rest;
ana may the Lord grant unto you repentance, that ye
may not bring down his wrath upon you, that ye may
not be bound down by the chains of bell, that ye may
not suffer the second death. And Alma spake many
more words unto the people, which are not written in
this book,
And it came to pass after he had made an end of
speaking unto the people, many of them did believe
on his words, and began to repent, and to search the
scriptures; but the more part of them were desirous
that they might destroy Alma and Amulek: for they
were angry with Alma, because of the plainness of
his words unto Zeezrom; and they also said that
Amulek had lied unto them, and had reviled against
their law, and also against their lawyers and judges.
And they were also angry with Alina and4Amulek;
and because they had testified so plainly against their
wickedness, they sought to put them away privily.
278
But it came to pass that they did not; but they took
them and bound them with strong cords, ana took
them before the chiefjudge of the land. And the peo­
ple went forth and witnessed against them, testifying
that they had reviled against the law, and their law­
yers and judges of the land, and also of all the people
that were in the land; and also testified that there was
but one God, and that he should send his Son among
the people, but he should not save them; and,many
such things did the people testify against Alma and
Amulek. Now this was done before the chief judge
of the land. And it came to pass that Zeezrom was
astonished at the words which had been spoken; and
he also knew concerning the blindness of the minds
which he had caused among the people, by his lying
words; and his soul began to be harrowed up, under a
consciousness of his own guilt; yea,: he began to be
encircled about by the pains of hell.
And it came to pass that he began to cry unto the
people, saying: Behold, I am guilty, and these men
are spotless before God. And he began ,,to plead for
them, from that time forth; but they reviled him, say­
ing: Art thou also possessed with the, devil? And
they spit upon him, and cast him out from among
them, and also, all those who believed in the words
which had been, spoken by Alma and Amulek; and
they cast them out, and sent men to cast stones at
them., And they brought their wives and children to­
gether, and whosoever believed or had been taught to
believe in the word of God, they paused that they
should be cast into the fire; and- they also brought
forth their records which contained the holy scriptures,
and cast them into the fire also, -that they might be
burned and destroyed by fire.
And it came to pass that they took Alma and Arau-
lek, and carried them forth to the place of martydoro,
that they might,witness the destruction of those who
were consumed by fire. .And when; Amulek saw the
pains of the women and children who were consuming
in the,-fire, he was also pained; and he said unto Alma,
how can we witness this awful scene? ^Therefore let
us stretch forth our; hands, and exercise the power of
God which, is in us, -and save them from the flames.
But Alma said unto-him, the spirit constraineth me
that i must not stretch forth mine hand; for behold,
the Lord receivethrthem up unto himself, in glory;
and he doth suffer.that they may do,this,thing, or .that
BOOK OB ALMA.
279
Ihe’
jiedple may do this thing unto them, according to
the hardness of their hearts, that the judgments which
he shall exercise upon them in his wrath, may he just;
and the blood of the innocent shall stand as a' witness
against them, yea, and cry mightily agairist them at
the last clay. Now Amulek said unto Alma, behold,
perhaps they will burn us also. And Alma said, be it
according to the will of the Lord. But behold, our
work is not finishedtherefore they burn us not.
Now it came to pass that when the bodies of those
who had been cast into the fire, were consumed, and
also the records which were cast in with them, the
chiefjudge of the land came and stood before Alma add
Amulek, as they were bound; and he smote them with
his hand upon their cheeks, and said unto them, alter
what ye have seen, will ye preach again unto this peo­
ple, that they shall be cast mto a lake of fire and brim­
stone? Behold, ye see that ye had not power to save
these who had been cast into the fire; neither baa God
saved them, because they were of thy faith. And the
judge smote them again upon their cheeks, and asked,
what say ye for yourselves? Now this judge was af­
ter the order and faith of Nehor, who slew Gideon.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek answered
him nothing; and he smote them again, and delivered
them to the officers to be cast into prison. And when
they had been cast into prison three days, there came
many lawyers, and judges, and priests, and teachers,
who were of the profession of Nehor; and they came
in unto the prison to see them, and they questioned
them about many words; but they answered them no­
thing. And it came to pass that the judge stood be­
fore them, and said, why do ye not answer the words
bf this people? Know ye not that I have power to
deliver ye up onto the flames? And he commanded
them to speak; but they answered nothing.
And it came to pass that they departed and went
Jheir ways, but came again on the morrow; and the
judge also smote them again on their cheeks. And
many came forth also, and smote them, saying, will
{
'e stand again and judge this people, and condemn our
aw? If ye have such great power, why do ye not de­
liver yourselves? And many such things did they say
unto them, gnashing their teeth upon them, and spit­
ting upon them; and saying, how shall we look when
we are damned? And many such things, yea, all
manner of such things did they say unto them; and
BOO* OF ALMA.
980 BOOK OF JlLUA.
thus they did mock them, for many days. And they
did withhold food from them, that they might hunger,
and water, that they might thirst; and they also did
take from them their clothes, that they were naked;
and thus they were bound with strong cords, and con*
fined in prison.
And it came to pass after they had thus suffered for
many days, (and it was on the twelfth day, in tha
tenth month, in the tenth year of the reign of tha
judges over the people of Ncphi,) that .the cniefjudga
over the land of Ammonihah, and many of their teach*
era and their lawyers, went m unto the prison whera
Alma and Amulet, were bound with cords. And tha
chiefjudge stood before them, and smote them again,
and said onto them, if ye have the power of God, de­
liver yourselves from these bands, and then we will
believe that the Lord will destroy this people accord*
*ing to your words. And it came to pass that they all
went forth and smote them, saying the seme words,
•even until the last; and when the last had spoken unto
them; the power of God was upon Alma and Atnulek,
and they arose and stood upon their feet; and Alma
cried, saying, how long shall we suffer these great af*
flicliona, O Lord! O Lord, give us strength according
to our faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance;
and they break the cords with which they were bound:
and when the people saw this, they began to flee, for
the fear of destruction had come upon them.
And it came to pass that so great was their fear,
that they fellto the earth, and did not obtain the outer
door of the prison; and the earth shook mightly, and
the walls of the prison were rent in twain, so that
“they fell to the earth; and the chief judge, and tha
lawyers, and priests, and teachers who smote upon
Alma and Aumiak, were slain by the fall thereof.—
And Alma and Amulek came form out of the prison,
and they were not hurt: .for the Lord had granted
unto them power, acccordmg to their faith which
was in Ciirist. And they straightway came forth out
of the prison: and they were loosed from their hands;
and tiie prison had fallen to the earth, and every soul
who was within the<wa!ls thereof, save it were Aiwa
and Amulek, were slain: and they straightway came
forth into the city. Now the people having heard a
great noise, came running together by multitudes, to
know the cause of.it; and when they saw, Alma and
Amulek coming forth out of the prison, end the wall*
BOOK or ALMA. 281
thereof had fallen to the earth, they were struck with
great fear, and fled from the presence of Alma and
Amulek, even as a goat fleeth with her young from two
lions; and thus they did flee from the presence of Al­
ma and Amulek.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were
commanded to depart out of that city; and they de­
parted, and came out even into the land of Sidom; and
behold, there they found all the people who had de­
parted out of the land of Ammonihah, who had been
cast out and stoned, because they believed in the
words of Alma. And they related unto them all that
had happened unto their wives and children, and also
concerning themselves, and of their power of deliver­
ance. And also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with a
burning fever, which was caused by the great tribula­
tions of liis mind, on account of his wickedness, for he
supposed that Alma and Arnulek were no more; and
he supposed that they had been slain, by the cause of
his iniquity. And this great sin, and Ins many other
sins, did harrow up his mind until it did become ex-
ceeeding sore, having no deliverance; therefore he be­
gan to be scorched with a burning heat. Now when
he heard that Alma and Amulek were in the land of
Sidom, his heart began to take courage; and he sent
a message immediately unto them, desiring them to
come unto him.
And it came to pass that they went immediately,
obeying the message which he had sent unto them;
and they went in unto the house unto Zeezrom; and
they found him upon his bed sick, being very low with
a burning fever; and his mind also wasexceeding sore,
because of his iniquities; and when he saw them, he
stretched forth his hand, and besought them that they
would heal him.
And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking
him by the hand, believest thou in the power ofChrist
unto salvation? And lie answered and said, yea, I be­
lieve all the words that thou hast taught. And Alma
said, if thou believest in the redemption of Christ, thou
canst be healed. And he said, yea, 1 believe according
to thy words. And then Alma cried unto the Lord,
saying, O Lord our God, have mercy on this man,
and heal him according to his faith which is in Christ.
And when Alma had said these words, Zeezrom leap­
ed upon his feet, and began to walk; and this was done
282 BOOK OF ALMA.,
to the great astonishment of all the people; and the
knowledge of this went forth throughout all the land
of Sidom. And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the Lord;
and he began from that time forth to preach unto the
people. And Alma established a church in the land
of Sidom, and consecrated priests and teachers in the
land, to baptize unto the Lord whosoever were desir­
ous to be baptized.
And it came to pass that they were many; for they
did flock in from all the region round about Sidom,
and were baptized; but as to the people that were in the
land of Ammonihah, they yet remained a hard hearted
and a stiffnecked people; and they repented not of
their sins, ascribing all the power of Alma and Amu-
lek to the devil: lor they were of the profession of
Nehor, and did not believe in the repentance of their
sins.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Ainu-
lek having forsaken all his gold, and silver, and his
precious things, which were in the land of Ammoni­
hah, for the word of God, he being rejected by those
who were once his friends, and also by his father and
his kindred; therefore, after Alma having established
the church at Sidom, seeing a great check, yea, seeing
that the people were checked as W the pride of their
hearts, and began to humble themselves before God,
and began to assemble themselves together at their
sanctuaries to worship God before the altar, watching
and praying continually, that they might be delivered
from satan, and from death, and from destruction;
Now as I said, Alma having seen all these things,
therefore he took Amulek and came over to the land
of Zarahemla, and took him to his own house, anddid
administer unto him in his tribulations, and strength­
ened him in the Lord. And thus ended the tenth year
of the reign of the judges over the people ofNephi.
V* CHAPTER XI.
Air» it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign
of the judges over the people of Nephi, on the fifth
day of the second month, there having been much
peace in the land of Zarahemla; there having been no
BOOK o r ALMA. 283
wars nor contentions for a certain number of years;
even until the fifth day of the second month, in the
eleventh year, there was a cry of war beard through­
out the land; for behold, the armies of the Lamanites
had come in upon the wilderness side, into the borders
of the land, even into the city of Ammonihah, and be*
gan to slay the people, and destroy the city.
And now it came to pass before the Nephites could
raise a sufficient army to drive them out of the land,
they had destroyed the people who were in the city of
Ammonihah, and also some around the borders of
Noah, and taking others captive into the wilderness.
Now it came to pass that the Nephites were desi­
rous to obtain those who had been carried aw&y cap­
tive into the wilderness; therefore he that had been
appointed chief captain over the armies of the Ne­
phites, (and his name was Zoram, and he had two
sons, Lchi and Aha:) Now Zoram and his two sons,
knowing that Alma was high priest over the church,
and having heard that he had the spirit of prophecy,
therefore they went unto him and desired of him to
know whether the Lord would that they should go into
the wilderness in search of their brethren, who had
been taken captive by the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Alma inquired of the Lord
concerning the matter. And Alma returned and said
unto them, behold the Lamanites will cross the river
Sidon in the south wilderness, away up beyond the
borders ot the land of Manti. And behold there shall
ye meet them, on the east of the river Sidon and there
the Lord will deliver unto thee thy brethren who have
been taken captive by the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Zorum and his sons crossed
over the river Sidon, with their armies, and marched
away beyond the borders of Manti, into the south
wilderness, which was on the east side of the river
Sidon/f And they came upon the armies of the La­
manites, and the Lamanites were scattered and driven
into the wilderness; that they took their brethren who
had been taken captive by the Lamanites, and there
was not one soul of them who had been lost, that were
taken captive. And they were brought by their breth­
ren to possess their own lands. And thus ended the
eleventh year of the judges, the Lamanites having been
driven out of the land, and the people of Ammonihah
were destroyed; yea, every livingsoul of the Aramoni*
habits were destroyed, and also their great city, which
284 BOOS O r ALMA*
they said God could not destroy, because of its great­
ness. But behold, in one day it was left desolate;
aiid the carcases were mangled by dogs and wild
beasts of the wilderness; nevertheless, after many
days, their dead bodies were heaped up upon the face
of the earth, and they were covered with a shallow
covering. And now so great was the scent thereof,
that the people did not go in to possess the land of
Ammonihah for many years. And it was called deso­
lation of Nehors; for they were of the profession of
Nehor, who were slain; and their lands remained deso­
late. And the Lamanites did not come again to war
against the Nephites until the fourteenth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. And
thus for three years did the people of Nephi have con­
tinual peace in all the land.
And Alma and Amulek went forth preaching re­
pentance to the people in their temples, and in their
sanctuaries, and also in their synagogues, which were
built after the manner of the Jews. And as many as
would hear their words, unto them they did impart
the word of God, without any respect of persons, con­
tinually. And thus did Alma and Amulek go forth,
and also many more who had been chosen for the work,
to preach the word throughout all the land. And the
establishment of the church became general through­
out the land, in all the region round about, among all
the people of the Nephites.
And there was no inequality among them, the Lord
did pour out his spirit on all the face of the land, to
prepare the minds of the children of men, or to prepare
their hearts to receive the word which should be taught
among them at the time of his coming, that they
might not be hardened against the word, that they
might not be unbelieving, and go on to destruction,
but that they might receive the word with joy, and as
a branch be grafted into the true vine, that they might
enter into the rest of the Lord their God.
Now those priests who did go forth among the peo­
ple, did preach against all lyings, and deceivings, and
envyings, and strifes, and malice, and revilinga, mid
stealing, robbing, plundering, murdering, committing
adultery, and all manner of lasciviousness, crying that
these things ought not not so to be; holding forth
things which must shortly come; yea, holding forth
the coming of the Son of God, his sufferings and death,
and also the'resurrection of tbedead, j*And many o{
BOOK or ALXA. 285
• *
the people did inquire concerning the place where the
Son of God should come; and they were taught that
he would appear unto them after his resurrection; and
this the people did hear with great joy and gladness.
And now after the church haring been, established
throughout all the land, having got the victory over
the devil, and the word of God being preached in its
purity in all the land; and the Lord pouring out his
blessings upon the people; thus ended the fourteenth
Sear of the reign of the judges, over the people of
fephi. e
■ 'ie i- ^
CHAPTER XII.
A n accou n t q f the so n s o f M o sia k , w h o rejected their
rig h ts to the k in g d o m , f o r the w o rd q f G o d , a n d w en t
u p to the la n d qf N ep /d , to preach to the L a m a n ites.—
T h eir su fferin g s a n d deliveran ce, a c c o rd in g to the
record q f A lm a ,
• ' ; -•!>
And now it came to pass that as Alma was journey­
ing from the land of Gideon, southward, away to the
land of Manti, behold, to his astonishment, he met
with the sons of Mostah, journeying towards the land
of Zarahemla. Now these sons of Mosiah were with
Alma at the time the angel first appeared unto him;
therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly, to see his breth­
ren; and what added more to his joy, they wereatill
his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed
strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were •
«
men ofa sound understanding, and they had searched
the scriptures diligently, that they might know, the ■
word of God. But this is not all: they had .given
themselves to much prayer, and fasting, therefore theyjp
had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, ’
and when they taught, they taught with power and
authority of God.? And they had been teaching the
word of God 'for the space of fourteen years, among
the Lamanites, having had much success in bringing *
many to the knowledge of the truth; yea, by the pow­
er of their words, many were brought before the altar
of God, to call on his name, and confess their sins be­
fore hint £ Now these,are the .circumstances which at­
286 BOOS OB ALMA.
tended them in their journeyings, for they had many
afflictions; they did suffer much, both in body and i&
mind; such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and also
much labor in the spirit. Now these were their jour­
neyings: Having taken leave of their father Mosiah,
in the first year of the reign of the judges; having re­
fused the kingdom which, their father was desirous to
confer upon them; and also this was the minds of the
people; nevertheless they departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, and took their swords, and their spears,
and their bows, and their arrows, and their slings; and
this they did that they might provide food for them­
selves while in the wilderness: and thus they departed
into the wilderness, with their numbers which they
had selected, to go up to the land of Nephi, to preach
the word of God unto the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they journeyed many days
in the wilderness, and they fasted much, that the Lord
would grant unto them a portion of his spirit to go
with them, and abide with them, that they might be
an instrument in the hands of God, to bring, if it were
possible, their brethren, the Lamanites, to the know­
ledge of the truth; to the knowledge of the baseness
of the traditions of their fathers, which were not
correct.
And it came to pass that the Lord did visit them
with his spirit, and said unto them, be comforted; and
they were comforted, And the Lord said unto them
also, go forth among the Lamanites, thy brethren, and
establish my word; yet ye shall be patient in long
suffering and afflictions, that ye may shew forth good
examples unto them in me, and I will make an instru­
ment of thee in my hands, unto the salvation of many
souls.
And it came to pass that the hearts of the sons of
Mosiah, and also those who were with them, took
courage to goforth unto the Lamanites, to declare unto
them the word of God.
And it came to pass when they had arrived in the
borders of the land of the Lamanites, that they sepa­
rated themselves, and departed one from another, trust­
ing in the Lord, that they should meet again at the
* close of their harvest; for they supposed that great
was the work which they had undertaken. And as­
suredly it was great, fbr they had undertaken to preach
the word of God to a wild, and a hardened, and a fero­
cious people; a people who delighted in murdering the
BOOK o r ALMA. 287
NephiteSj and robbing, and plundering them; and their
hearts were set upon riches, or upon gold, and silver,
and precious stones; yet they sought to obtain these
things by murdering and plundering, that they might
not labor for them with their own hands: thus they
were a very indolent people,many of whom did worship
idols, and the curse of God had fallen upon them be
cause of the traditions of their fathers; notwithstand­
ing, the promises of the: Lord were extended unto
them, on the conditions of repentance; therefore this
was the cause for which the sons of Mosiah had un­
dertaken the work, that perhaps they might bring
them unto repentance: that perhaps they might bring
them to know of the plan of redemption; therefore
they separated themselves one from another, and went
forth among them every man alone, according*to the
word and power of God, which was given unto him.
Now Ammon being the chief among them, or rather
he did administer unto them; and he departed from
them, after having blessed them according to their
several stations, having imparted the word of God unto
them, or administered unto them before his departure;
and thus they took their several journeys throughout
the land. And Ammon went to the land of Ishmael,
the land being called after the sons of Ishmael, who
also became Lamanites. And as Ammon entered the
land of Ishmael, the Lamanites took him and bound
him, as was their custom, to bind all lire Nephiles who
fell into their hands, and carry them before the king;
and thus it was left to the pleasure of the king to slay
them, or to retain them in captivity, or to cast them
into prison, or to cast them out of his land, according
to his will and pleasure; and thus Ammon was carried
before the king who was over the land of Ishmael; and
his name was Lamoni; and he was a desecendant of
Ishmael. And the king inquired of Ammon if it were
his desire to dwell in the land among the Lainanites,
or among his people? And Ammon said unto him,
yea, I desire to dwell among this people for a time;
yea, and perhaps until the day ! die.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni was muck
pleased with Ammon, and caused that his bands should
be loosed; and he would that Ammon should take one
of his daughters to wife. But Ammon said unto him,
nay,1hut I will be thy servant; therefore Ammon be­
came &servant to king Lamoni, And it came to pass
that he was set, among other servants, to watch’the
288 BOOS o r AtM A .
flocks of Lamoni, according to the custom of the La-
maniles. And after he had been in the service of the
king three days, as he was, with the Lanianitish ser­
vants, going forth with their flocks, to the place of
water, which was called the water of Sebus; (and all
the Lamanites drive their flocks hither, that they may
have water;) therefore as Ammon and the servants of
the king were driving forth their Bocks to this place of
water, behold, a certain number of the Lamanites who
had been with their flocks to water, stood and scatter­
ed the flocks of Ammon, and the servants of the king,
and they scattered them insomuch that they fled many
ways.
Now the servants of the king began to murmur, say­
ing, now the king will slay us, as he has our brethren,
because their flocks were scattered by the wickednesss
of these men. And they began to weep exceedingly,
saying, behold our flocks are scattered already. Now
they wept because of the fear of being slain. Now
when Ammon saw this, his heart was swollen within
him, with joy; for, said he, I will shew forth my pow­
er unto these my fellow servants, or the power which
is in me, in restoring these flocks unto the king, that
I may win the hearts of these my fellow servants, that
l may lead them to believe in my words. Now these
were the thoughts of Ammon, when he saw the afflic­
tions o! those whom he termed to be his brethren.
And it came to pass that he flattered them by his
words, saying, my brethren, be of good cheer and let
us go in search of the flocks, and we will gather them
together, and bring them back unto the place of water;
and thus we will reserve the flocks unto the king, and
he will not slay us.
And it came to pass that they went in search of the
flocks, and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed
forth with much swiftness, and did head the flocks of
the king, and did gather them together again, to
the place of water. And those men again stood to
scatter their flocks; but Ammon said unto his breth­
ren, encircle the flocks round about that they flee not;
and I go and contend with these men who do scatter
our flocks. Therefore they did as Ammon command­
ed them, and he went forth and stood to contend with
those who stood by the waters of Sebus; and they
were in number not a few; therefore they did not fear
Ammon, for they supposed that one of their men could
slay him, according to their pleasure, for they knew
BOOS OF ALMA.. 289
not that the Lord had promised Mosiah that he would
deliver his sons out of their hands; neither did they
know any thing concerning the Lord; therefore they
delighted in the destruction of their brethren; and for
this cause they stood to scatter the flocks of the king.
But Ammon stood forth and began to cast stones at
them with his sling; yea, with mighty power he did
sling stones amongst them; and thus he slew a cer­
tain number of them, insomuch that they began to be
astonished at his power; nevertheless they were angry
because of the slain of their brethren, and they were
determined that he should fall; therefore, seeing that
they could not hit him with their stones, they"camo
forth with clubs to slay him. But behold, every man
that lifted his club to smite Ammon, he smote off their
arms with his sword; for he did withstand their blows
by smiting their arms with the edge of his sword, in­
somuch that they began to be astonished, and began to
flee before him; yea, and they were not few in num­
ber; and he caused them to flee by the strength of his
arm. Now six of them had fallen by the sling, but he
slew none save it were their leader, with his sword;
and he smote off as many of their arms as were lifted
against him, and they were not a few. And when he
had driven them afar off, he returned, and they watered
their flocks and returned them to the pasture of the
king, and then went in unto the king, bearing the arra9
which had been smote off by the sword of Ammon, of
those who sought to slay him; and they were carried
in unto the king, for a testimony of the things which
they had done.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that
his servants should stand forth and testify to all the
things which they had seen concerning the matter.
And when they had all testified to the things which
they had seen, and he had learned of the faithfulness of
Ammon in preserving his flocks, and also of his great
power in contending against those who sought to slay
him, he was astonished exceedingly, and said, sure­
ly, this is more than a man. * Behold, is not this the
Great Spirit who doth send such great punishments
upon this people, because of theirmurdersl And they
answered the king, and said, whether he be the Great
Spirit or a man, we know not; but this much we do
know, that he cannot be slain by the enemies of the
king; neither can they scatter the king's flocks when
M
290 BOOK OF AM IA.
jie is with us, because of his expertness and great
strength: therefore, we know that he is a friend to the
king. And now, O king, we do not believe that a man
lias such great power, for we know that he cannot be
slain. And now when the king heard these words, he
said unto them, now J know that it is the Great Spirit:
and lie has come down at this time to preserve your
lives, that 1might not slay you as I did your brethren.
Now this is the Great Spirit of whom our lathers havo
spoken. Now this was Lhe tradition of Lainoni, which
he had received from his fattier, that there was a Great
Spirit. Notwithstanding they believed in a Great
Spirit, they supposed that whatsoever they did, was
right; nevertheless, Lamoni began to fear exceedingly,
with fear lest lie had done wrong in slaying his ser­
vants: for he had slain many of them, because their
brethren liad scattered their flocks at the place of water;
and thus because they had had tiieir flocks scattered,
they were slain. Now it was the practice of the La-
manites, to stand by the waters of Sebus, to scatter
the flocks of the people, that thereby they might drive
away many that were scattered, unto their own land,
it being a practice of plunder among them.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni inquired of
his servants, saying where is litis matl that has such
great power? And they said unto him, behold, he is
feeding thy horses. Now the king had commanded
his servants previous to the time of the watering of
their flocks, that they should prepare his horses and
chariots, and conduct him forth to the latid of Nephi:
for there had been a great feast appointed at the land
of Nephi, by the father of Lamoni, who was king over
ail the land. Now when king Lamoni heard that Am­
mon was preparing his horses and his chariots, lie was
more astonished, because of the faithfutness of Am­
mon, saying, surely, there lias not been any servant
among all my servants, that has been so faithful as this
man; for even he doth remember all my command­
ments to execute them. Now i surely know that this
:s the Great Spirit; and J would desire him that he
©ome in unto me, but 1durst not.
And it came to pass that when Ammon had mads
ready the horses and the chariot^ for the king and hi*
servants, he went in unto the king, and he saw that
the countenance of the king was changed; therefor#
he Was about to return out of his presence; and one of
*the king’s servants said onto him, Rabbanoh, which is.
BOOK OF ALMA. 291
being interpreted, powerful or great kir.g, considering
their kings to be powerful; and thus .;esaid unto him,
Rabbanah, the king desireth thee do stay; therefore
Ammon turned himself unto the king, and said unto
him wbat wilt thou that I should do for thee, 0 king?
And the king answered him not for the space of an
hour, according to their time, for he knew not what
he should say unto him. And it came to pass that
Ammon said unto him again, what desirest thou of
met But the king answered him not.
And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with
the spirit of God, therefore he perceived the thoughts
of the King. And lie said unto him, is it because thou
hast heard that I defended thy servan (s and thy flocks,
and slew seven of their brethren with the sling, and
with the sword, and smote off the arms of others, in
order to defend thy flocks and thy servants; behold, is
it this that causeth thy marvelings? 1 say unto you,
what is it, that thy marvelings are so great! Beheld,
I am a man, and am thy servant; therefore, whatso­
ever thou desirest which is right, that will I do. Now
when the king had heard these words, he marveled
again, for lie beheld that Ammon could discern hie
thoughts; but notwithstanding this, king Lamoni did
open his mouth; and said unto him, who art thou?
Art thou that Great Spirit, who knows all things?
Ammon answered and said unto him, I am not. And
the king said, how knowest thou the thoughts of my
heart? Thou mayesl speak boldly, and tell me con­
cerning these things; and also tell me by wbat power
ye slew and smote off the arms of my brethren, that
scattered my flocks. And now if thou wilt tell me
concerning these things, whatsoever thou desirest, 1
will give unto thee; and if it were needed, 1 would
guard thee with my armies; but I know that thou ait
more powerful than all they: nevertheless, whatsoever
thou desirest of me, I will grant it unto thee. Now
Ammon being wise, yet harmless, he said unto Lamo-
ni, wilt thou hearken unto my words, if I tell thee by
whnt power I do these things? and this is the tiring
that I desire of thee. And .the king answered firm,
and said, yea, I will believe all thy words; and thus
he was caught with guile. And Ammon began to
6pesk unto him with boldness, and said unto him, be-
lievest thou that there is a God? And he answered,
and said unto him,.I do not know' what that meanelb.
And then: Ammon .said?, believcst thou that there is a
292 BOOK OF A L H i.
Great Spirit? And be said, yea. And Ammon said,
this is God. And Ammon said unto 'him again, be-
lievest thou that tins Great Spirit, who is God, created
all things, which are in heaven and in the earth?
And he said, yea, I believe that he created all things
which are in the earth; but I do not know, the heavens.
And Ammon said unto him, the heavens is a place
where God dwells, and all his holy angels. And king
Lamom said, is it above the earth? And Ammon said,
yea, and he looketh down upon all the children of
men; and he knows all the thoughts and intents of
the heart: for by his hand were they all created, from
the beginning. And king Lamoni said, I believe all
these things which thou hast spoken. Art thou sent
from God? Ammon said unto him, I am a man; and
man in the beginning, was created after the image of
God, and I am called by his Holy Spirit to teach these
things unto this people, that they may be brought to
a knowledge of that which is just and true; and a por­
tion of that Spirit dwelieth in me, which giveth me
knowledge, and also power, according to my faith and
desires which are in God. Now when Ammon had
said these words, he began to the creation of the world,
and also the creation of Adam, and told him all the
things concerning the fall of man, and rehearsed and
laid before him the records and the holy scriptures of
the people, which had been .spoken by the prophets,
even down to the time that their father Hehi left Jeru­
salem; and he also rehearsed unto them (for it was unto
the king and to his servants.) all the lourneyings of
their fathers in the wilderness, and all their sufferings
with hunger and thirst, and their travel, &c.s und he
also rehearsed unto them concerning the rebellions of
Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, yea, all
their icbellions did he relate unto them; and he ex­
pounded unto them all the records and scriptures, from
the time that Lebi left Jerusalem, down to the pres­
ent time; but this is not all; for he expounded unto
them the plan of redemption, which was prepared from
the foundation of the world; and he also made known
unto them concerning the coming of Christ; and all
the works of the Lord did he make known unto them.
And it came to pass that after he had said all these
things, and expounded them to the king, that the king
believed all his words. And he began to cry unto the
Lord, saying: O Lord, have mercy; according to thy
abundant mercy which thou hast had upon the people
BOOS OF ALMA. 293
of Nephi, have upon me and my people. And now
when he had said this, he feli unto the earth, as if he
were dead. And it came to pass that his servants took
him and carried him in unto his wife, and laid him
upon a bed; and be lay as if he were dead, for the
space of two days and two nights; and his wife, and
his sons, and his daughters mourned over him, after
the manner of the Lamanites, greatly lamenting his
loss.
And it came to pass that after two days and two
nights, they were about to take his body and lay it in
a sepulchre which they had made for the purpose of
burying their dead. Now the queen having heard of
the fame of Ammon, therefore she sent and desired
that he should come in unto her. And it came to pass
that Ammon did as he was commanded, and went in
unto the queen, and desired to know what she would
that he should do. And she said unto him, the ser­
vants of my husband have made it known unto me,
that thou art a prophet of a holy God, and that thou
hast power to do many mighty works in his name;
therefore, if this is the case, f would that ye should go
in and see my husband, for he has been laid upon his
bed for Ihe space of two days and two nights; and
some say that lie is not dead, but others say that he is
dead, and that he stinkelh, and that lie ought to be
placed in the sepulchre; but as for myself, to me he
doth not stink. Now this was v/hnt Ammon desired,
for he knew that king Lamoni was under the power of
God; he knew that the dark veil of unbeliefbeing cast
away from his mind, and the light which did light up
his mind, which was the light of the glory of God,
which was a marvelous light of his goodness; yea,
this light had infused such joy into his soul, the cloud
of darkness having been dispelled, and that the light
of everlasting light was lit up in his soul; yea, he
knew that this had overcome his natural frame, and he
was carried away in God; therefore, what the queen
desired of him, was his only desire. Therefore he
went in to see the king, according as the queen had
desired him; and he saw the lung, and he knew that
he was not dead. And he said unto the queen, he is
not dead, but he slcepeth in God, and on the morrow
he shall rise again; therefore bury him not. And Am­
mon said unto her, believest thou this! And she said
unto him,’I have had no witness, save thy word, and
the word of our servams; nevertheless, I believe that
2 9 4 BOOK OF ALKA.
it shall be according as thou hast said.* And Ammon
said unto her, blessed art thou, because of thy exceed­
ing faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not been
such great faith among all the people of the Nepbites.
And it came to pass that she watched over the bed
of her husband, from that time, even'until that time
on the morrow which Ammon had appointed that he
should rise. .And it came to pass that he arose, ac­
cording to the words of Ammon; and as he arose, he
stretched forth his hand unto the woman, and said,
blessed be the name of God, and blessed art thou; for
as sure as thou Uvest, behold, 1have seen my Redeem­
er; and he shall come forth, and be born of a woman,
and he 6hall redeem all mankind who believe on his
name. Now when he had said these words, his heart
was swollen within him, and he sunk again with joy;
and the queen also sunk down, being overpowered by
the spirit. Now Ammon seeing the spirit of the Lord
poured out according to his prayers upon the Lnman-
ltes, his brethren; who had been the cause of so much
mourning among the Nephites, or among all the peo­
ple of God, because of their iniquities and their tradi­
tions, he fell upon his knees, and began to pour out
his soul in prayer and thanksgiving to God, for what
he had done lor his brethren: and he was also over­
powered with joy; and thus they all three had sunk to
the earth. Now when the servants of the king had
seen that they had fallen, they also began to cry unto
God, for the fear of the Lord had come upon them
also, for it was they who had stood before the king,
and testiiied unto him concerning, the great power of
Ammon.
And it came to pass that they did call on the name
of the Lord, in their might, even until they had all
fallen to the earth, save it were one of the Lamahitieb
women, whose name was Abish, she having been con­
verted unto the Lord for many years, on account of
a remarkable vision of her father; thus having been
converted to the Lord, never had made it known;
therefore when she saw that all the servants of Lamo-
ni had fallen to the earth, and also her mistress, the
queen, and the king, and Ammon lay prostrate upon
the earth, she knew that it was the power of God; and
supposing that this opportunity, by making known
unto the people what had happened among them, that
by beholding this scene, it would cause them to believe
in the power of God, 'therefore* she ran forth from
BOOK OF ALMA. 295
house to house, making it known unto the people;
and they began to assemble themselves together unto
the house of the king. And there came a multitude,
and to their astonishment, they beheld the king, and
the quean, and their servants, prostrate upon the earth,
and they all lay there as though they were dead; and
they also saw Ammon, and beliold, he was a iNepliite.
And now the people began to murmur among them­
selves; some saying, that it was a great evil that had
come upon them, or upon the king and his house, be­
cause he had suffered that the Nephite should remain
in the land. But others rebuked them, saying, the
king hath brought this evil upon his house, because he
slew his servants who had had their docks scattered at
the waters of Sebus: and they were also rebuked by
those' men wiio had stood at the waters of fSebus, and
scattered the flocks which belonged to the king, lor
they were angry with Ammon because of the number
which he had slain of their brethren at the waters of
Sebus, while defending the flocks of the king. Now
one of them, whose brother had been slain with the
sword of Ammon, being exceeding angry with Am­
mon, drew his sword and went forth that he might let
it fall upon Ammon, to slay him; and as he lifted the
sword to smite him, behold, he fell dead. Now wp
see that Ammon could not be slain, for the Lord had
said unto Mosiah, his father, 1 will spate him, and it
shall be unto him according to thy faith; therefore
Mosiah trusted him unto the Lord.
And it cams to pass that when the multitude beheld
that the man had fallen dead, who lifted the sword to
slay Ammon, fear came upon them all, and they durst
not put forth their hands to touch him, or any of those
who had fallen; and they began to marvel again
among themselves what could be the cause of this
great power, or what all these things could mean.
And it came to pass that there were many among
them, who said that Ammon was the Great Spirit, and
others said he was sent by the Great Spirit; but others
rebuked them all, saying, that he was a monster, who
had been sent from the Nephites to torment us; and
there were some who said that Ammon was sent by
tbe Great Spirit to afHict them, because of their ini­
quities; and that it was the Great Spirit that had al­
ways attended the Nephites; who had ever delivered
them out of their hands; and they said that it was this
feeat Spirit who had destroyed so many of their bretk-
BOOK OF ALMA.
ren, the Lamanites; and thus the contention began to
be exceeding sharp among them. And while they
were thus contending, the woman servant who had
caused the multitude to be gathered together, came;
and when she saw the contention which was among
the multitude, she was exceeding sorrowful, even unto
tears.
And it came to pass that she went and took the
queen by the hand, that perhaps she might raise her
from the ground; and as soon as she touched her hand,
she arose and stood upon her feet, and cried with a
loud voice, saying, O blesseed Jesus, who has saved
me from an awful hell! O blessed God, have mercy
on this people. And when she had said this, she clasp­
ed her hands being filled withjoy,speaking many words
which were not understood; and when she had dona
this, she took the king, Lamoni, by the hand, and be­
hold he arose and stood upon his feet; and he imme­
diately, seeing the contention among his people, went
forth and began to rebuke them, and to teach them
the words which he had heard from the inouth of Am­
mon; and as many as heard his words, believed, and
were converted unto the Lord. But there were many
among them who would not hear his words; therefore
they went their way.
And it came to pass that when Ammon arose; he
also administered unto them, and also did all the ser­
vants of Lamoni; and they did all declare unto the
people the self-same thing: that their hearts had been
changed; that they had no more desire to do evil.
And behold, many did declare unto the people that
they had seen angels, and had conversed with them;
and thus they had told them things of God, and of his
righteousness. And it came to pass that there were
many that did believe in their words; and as many as
did believe, were baptized; and they oecame a right­
eous people, and they did establish a church among
them: and thus the work of the Lord did commence
among the Lamanites; thus the Lord did begin to pour
out his spirit upon them: and we see that bis arm is
extended to all people who will repent and believe on
his name.
And it came to pass jthat when they had established
a church in that land, that king Lamoni desired that
Ammon should go with him to the land of Jlepbi, that
g, he might show him unto his faflieryv And the voice of
^ tbs Lord came to Armnoni'Oa^ipgt thpumhaltnot go
f ^ .J*
Sfc. j&
..„
296
BOOS OP ALMA. 297
f, "3
up to the land of Nephi, for behold, the king will seek
thy life; but thou shah go to the land of Middoni; for
behold, thy brother Aaron, and also Muloki and Am-
mah are in prison.
Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard
this, he said unto Lamoni, behold, my brother and
brethren are in prison at Middoni, and 1 go that I may
deliver them. Now Lamoni said unto Ammon, I
know, in the strength of the Lord, thou canst do all
things. But behold, I will go with thee to the land of
Middoni; for the king of the land of Middoni, whose
name is Antiomno, is a friend unto me; therefore I go
to the land of Middoni, that I may flatter the king of
the land; and he will cast thy brethren out of prison.
Now Lamoni said unto him, who told thee that my
brethren were in prison? And Ammon said unto him,
no one hath told me, save it be God: and he Baid unto
me, go and deliver thy brethren, for they are in prison
in the land of Middoni. Now when Lamoni had heard
this, he caused that his servants should make ready his
horses, and his chariots. And he said unto Ammon
come, I will go with thee down to the land of Middo­
ni, and there I will plead with the king, that he will
cast thy brethren out of prison.
And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni
werejourneying thither, that they met the father ofLa­
moni, who waskingover all the land. And behold, the
father ofLamoni said unto him, why did ye riot come to
the feast, on that great day when 1 made a feast unto
my sons, and unto my people 1And he also said, whith­
er art thou going with this Nephite, who is one of the
children of a liar? And it came to pass that Lamoni
rehearst unto him whither he was going, for he feared
to offend him. And he also told him ail the cause of
his tarrying in his own kingdom, that he did not go
unto his father, to the feast which he had prepared.
And now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him all
these things, behold to his astonishment, his father
was angry with him, and said Lamoni, thou art going
to deliver these Nephites, who are sons of a liar. Be­
hold, he robbed our fathers; and now his children are
also come amongst us, that they may, by their cun­
ning and their lyings, deceive us, that they again may
rob us of our property. Now’the father of Lamoni1
commanded him that he'should slay Ammon, with the
sword. And he'alsocommandedhim that'he should
not go to the land of Middoni, but that he should n-'r.
A
298 BOOK OF ALMA.
turn with hm, to the land of Ishmael. But Lamoni
said unto him, I will not slay Ammon, neither will I
return to the land of Ishmael, but I go to the land of
Middoni, that I may release the brethren of Ammon,
lor I know that they are just men, and holy prophets
of the true God. Now when his father had heard
these words, he was angry with him, and he drew his
sword that he might smite him to the earth. But Am­
mon stood forth and said unto him, behold, thou shall
not slay thy son; nevertheless, it were better that he
should fall than thee: lor behold, he has repented of
his sins; hut if thou shouldst fall at this time, in thine
anger, thy soul could not be saved. And again, it is
expedient that thou shouldst forbear; for if thou
shouldst slay thy son, (he being an innocent man,)
his blood would cry from the ground, to the Lord his
God, for vengeance to come upon thee; and perhaps
thou wouldst lose t <
y soul. Now when Ammon had
said these words unto him, lie answered him, saying, I
know that if I should slay my son, that I should shed in­
nocent blood; for it is thou that hast sought to destroy
him: and lie stretched forth his hand to slay Amnion.
But Ammon withstood his blows, and also smote his
arm that be could not use it. Now when the king
saw that Ammon could slay him, lie began to plead
with Ammon, that he would spaie his life. But Am­
mon raised ids sword, and said unto him, behold, I
will smite thee, except tliou wilt grant unto me that
my brethren may be cast out of prison. Now the
king, fearing he should lose his life, said, if thou wilt
spare me, I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt
ask, even to half of the kingdom.
Now when Amnion saw that he had wrought upon
the old king according to his desire, lie said ufito him,
if thou wilt grant that my brethren may be cast out of
prison, and also that Lamoni may retain his kingdom,
and that ye be not displeased with him, but grant that
he may do according to his own desires, in whatsoev­
er thing he thinketh, then will I spare thee; otherwiss
I will smite thee to the earth. Now when Ammon
had said these words, the king began to rejoice because
of his life. And when he saw that Ammon had no
desire to destroy him, and when he also saw the great
love he had for his son Lamoni, he was astonished ex­
ceedingly, and said, because this is all that thou hast
desired, that I would release .thy brethren, and suffer
thatmy son Lamoni should retain his kingdom, behold,
BOOK OP ALMA. 299
■
£
1will grant unto you that my son may retain his king­
dom from this time and forever; and I will govern him
no more. And 1 will also grant unto thee that' thy
brethren may be cast out of prison, and thou and thy
brethren may come unto me, in my kingdom; for I
shall greatly desire to see thee: lor the king was great­
ly astonished at the words which he had spoken, and
also at the words which had been spoken by his son
Lamoni; therelore he was desirous to learn them.
And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni pro­
ceeded on their journey towards the land of Middoni.
And Lamoni found favor in the eyes of the king of the
land; therefore the brethren of Ammon were brought
forth oulof prison. And when Ammon did Dteet them,
he was exceeding sorrowful, for behold, they were na­
ked, and their skins were worn exceedingly, because of
being bound with strong cords. And they also had
suffered hunger, thirst, and all kind of afflictions; nev­
ertheless they were patient in all their sufferings.—
And as it happened, it was their lot to have fallen into
the hands of a more hardened and a more stiffnecked
people; therefore they would not hearken unto their
words, and they had cast them out, and had smitten
them, and had driven them from house to house, and
from place to place, even until they had arriven to the
land of Middoni; and there they were taken and cast
into prison, and bound with strong cords, and kept, in
prison for many days; and were delivered by Lamoni
and Ammon.
, CHAPTER XIII.
An account of the preaching of Aaron and Mulohi, and
their brethren, to the Lamanites.
Now when Ammon ami his brethren separated them­
selves in the borders of the land of the Lamanites, be­
hold, Aaron took his journey towards the land which
was called by the Lamanites, Jerusalem; calling it af­
ter the land of their fathers’ nativity; and it was away
joining,the borders of Mormon’
. Now the Lamanites*
and the Amalekiles, and the people of Amulon, had
built a great city, which was called Jerusalem.1 Now
300 BOOK OF AI.KA.
the Lamanites, of themselves, were sufficiently hard*
enetl, but the Amalekites, and the Amulonites, were
still harder; therefore they did cause the Lamanites
that they should harden their hearts, that they should
wax strong in wickedness, and their abominations.
And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of
Jerusalem, and firstly began to preach to the Amalek­
ites. And lie began to preach to them in their syna­
gogues, for they had built synagogues, after the order
of the Nehors; for many of the Amalekites and the
Amulonites were after the order of the Nehors. There­
fore, as Aaron entered into one of their synagogues to
preach unto the people, and as he was speaking unto
them, behold there arose an Amalekite, and began to
contend with him, saying, what is that thou hast tes­
tified? Hast thou seen an angel? Why do not an­
gels appear unto us? Behold, are not this people as
good as thy people? Thou also sayest, except we re­
pent, we shall perish. How knowest thou the thought
and intent of our heart? How knowest thou that we
have cause to repent? How knowest thou that weare
not a righteous people? Behold, we have built sanc­
tuaries, and we do assemble ourselves together to wor­
ship God. We do believe that God will save all men.
Now Aaron said unto him, believest thou that the
Son of God shall come to redeem mankind from their
sins? And the man said unto him, we do not believe
that thou knowest any such thing. We do not believe
in these foolish traditions. We do not believe that
thou knowest of things to come, neither do we believe
that thy fathers, and also that our fathers did know
concerning the things which they spake, of that which
is to come.
Now Aaron began to open the scriptures unto them,
concerning the coming of Christ, and also concerning
the resurrection of the dead,' and that there could be
no redemption for mankind, save it were through the
death and sufferings of Christ, and the atonement of
iiis blood. And it came to pass as he began to expound
these things unto them, they were angry with him,
and began to mock him; and they would not hear the
words whicli he spake; therefore, when he saw that
they would not hear his words, he departed out of their
synagogue, and same over to a village which was call­
ed Ani-anli, and there he found Muloki preaching the
word unto them; and also Ammah, and his brethren.
And they contended with many about the word. And
BOOK OF ALMA. 301
it came to pass that they saw that the people would
harden their hearts; therefore they departed, and came
over into the land of Middoni. And they did preach
the word unto many, and few believed on the words
which they taught. Nevertheless, Aaron, and.a cer­
tain number of his brethren, were taken and cast into
prison, and the remainder of them fled out of the land
of Middoni, unto the regions round about. And those
who were cast into prison suffered many things, and
they were delivered by the hand of Lamoni and Am­
mon; and they were fed and clothed. And they went
forth again to declare the word; and thus they were
delivered for the first time out of prison; and thus they
had suffered. And they went forth whithersoever
they were led by the spirit of the Lord, preaching the
word of God in every synagogue of the Amalekitee, or
in every assembly of the Lamanites, where they could
be admitted.
And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless
them, insomuch that they brought many to the knowl­
edge of the truth; yea, they did convince many of
their sins, and of the tradition of their fathers, which
were not correct.
And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni re­
turned from the land of Middoni, to the land of Jshnm-
el, which was the land of their inheritance. And king
Lamoni would not suffer that Ammon should serve
him, or be his servant; but he caused that there should
be synagogues built in the land of Ishmael; and he
caused that his people, or the people who were under
his reign, should assemble themselves together. And
he did rejoice over them, and he did leach them many
things. And he did also declare unto them that they
were a people who were under him, and that they
were a free people; that they were free from the op­
pressions of the king, his father; for that his father
had granted unto him that he might reign over the ■
people who were in the land of Ishmael, and in all the
land round about: And he also declared unto them
that they might have the liberty of worshiping the
Lord their God, according to their desires, in whatso­
ever place they were in, if it were in the land which
was under the reign of king Lamoni. And Ammen
did preach unto the people of king Lamoni. And it
came to pass that he did teach them all things concern­
ing things pertaining to righteousness. And he did
exhort them daily, with all diligence; and they gave
302 BOOK OF ALMA.
heed unto his word, aad they were zealous for keep*
ing the commandments of God. Now as Ammon was
thus teaching the people of Lamoni continually, we
will return to the account of Aaron and his brethren;
for after he departed from the land of Middoni, he was
led by the spirit to the land of Nephi; even to the
house of the.king which was over all the land, save it
were the land of Ishmael; and he was the father of
Lamoni.
And it came to pass that he wont in unto him into
the king’s palace, with his brethren, and bowed him­
selfbefore the king, and said unto him, behold, O king,
we are the brethren of Ammon, whom thou hast de­
livered out ofprison. And now, O king, if thou wilt
spare our lives, we will be thy servants. And the
king said unto them, arise, for I will grant unto you
your lives, and I will not suffer that ye shall be my
servants; but I will insist that ye shall administer un*
to me; for I have been somewhat troubled in mind,
because of the generosity, and the greatness of the
words of thy brother Ammon; and 1 desire to know
the cause why he has not come up out of Middoni,
with thee. And Aaron said unto the king, behold, the
spirit of the Lord has called him another way: he has
gone to the land of Ishmael, to teach the people of La-
rnoni. Now the king said unto them, what is this
that ye have said concerning the spirit of the Lord?—
Ilehold, this is the thing which doth trouble me.-—
And also, what is this that Ammon said—if ye will
repent ye shall be saved, and if ye will not repent, ye
shall be cast offat the last day? And Aaron answer­
ed him and said unto him, believest thou that there is
a God? And the king said, I know that the Amalek-
ites say that there is a God, and I have granted unto
them that they should build sanctuaries, that they may
assemble themselves together, to worship him. And
if now thou sayest there is a God, behold, 1 will be­
lieve.
And now when Aaron heard this, his heart began
to rejoice, and lie said, behold, assuredly, as thou liv-
est, O king, there is a God. And the king said, is
God that great Spirit that brought our fathers out of
the land of Jerusalem? And Aaron said unto him,
yea, he is that great Spirit, and he created all things,
both in heaven and in earth: believest thou this? And
he said yea, I believe that the great Spirit created all
V 'd ! ke< fo- >
-.vn*
BOOK OF ALMA. 303
things, and I desire that ye should tell me concerning
all t.iese things, and I will believe thy words.
And it came to pass that when Aaron saw that the
king would believe his words, he began from the crea­
tion of Adam, read ing the scriptures unto the king;
how God created man after his own image, and that God
gave him commandments, and that because of trans­
gression, man had fallen. And Aaron did expound
unto him the scriptures, from the creation of Adam,
laying the fall of man before him, and their carnal
state, and also the plan of redemption, which was pre­
pared from the foundation ofthe world, through Christ,
for all whosoever would believe on his name. And
since man had fallen, he could not merit any thing of
himself; but the sufferings and death of C-hrisl aioneth
for their sins, through faith and repentance, &.c.: and
that he breaketh the bands of death, that the grave
shall have no victory, and that the sling ofdeath should
be swallowed up in the hopes of glory: and Aaron did
expound all these things unto the king. And it came
to pass that alter Aaron had expounded these things
unto him, the king said, what shall 1do, that 1 may
have this eternal life of which thou hast spoken?—
Yea,‘
*.what shall I do, that I maybe born of God, hav­
ing this wicked spirit rooted out of my breasl, and re­
ceive his spirit, tiiat 1 may he filled with joy, that I
may not be cast off"at the last day? Behold, said he,
1 will give up all that I possess; yea, I will forsake
my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy. But
Aaron said unto him, if thou desirest this thing, if thou
wilt bow down before God, yea, if thou wilt repent of
all thy sins, and will bovV down before God, and call
on his name in faith, believing that ye shall receive,
then shall thou receive the hope which thou desirest.
And it came to pass that when Aaron had said these
words, the king did bow down before the Lord, upon
his knees; yea, even he did prostrate himself upon the
earth, and cried mightily, saying, O God, Aaron hath
told me that there is a God; and if there is a God,
and if thou art God, wilt thou make thyselfknown un­
to me, and I will give away all my sins to know thee,
and that I may be raised from the dead, and be Baved
at the last day. And now when the king had said
these words, lie was struck as if he were dead.
And it came to pass that his servants ran and told
the queen all that had happened unto the king.; And
■ka came in unto the king; and when she saw him lay
304 BOOK OB IB M *.
as if lie were dead, and also Aaron and his brethren
standing as though they had been the cause of his fall,
she was angry with them, and commanded that her
servant*, or the servants of the king, should take them
and slay them. Now the servants had seen the cause
of the king’s fall, therefore they durst not lay their
haqds on Aaron and his brethren; and they plead
with the queen, saying, why commandest thou that
we should sluy these men, when behold, one of them
is mightier than us all? Therefore we shall fall before
them. Now when the queen saw the fear of the ser­
vants, she also began to fear exceedingly, lest there
should some evil come upon her. And she command­
ed her servants that they should go and call the peo­
ple, that they might slay Aaron and his brethren.—
Now when Aaron saw the determination of the queen,
and he also knowing the hardness of the hearts of the
people, feared lest that a multitude should assemble
themselves together, and there should be a great con­
tention, and a disturbance among them; therefore he
put forth his hand and raised the king from the earth,
and said unto him, stand: and he stood upon his feet,
receiving his strength. Now this was done in the
presence of the queen, and many of the servants.—
And when they saw it, they greatly marveled, and be­
gan to fear. And the king stood forth and began to
minister unto them. Andlie did minister unto them
insomuch that his whole household were converted un­
to the Lord. Now there was a multitude gathered to­
gether because of the commandment of the queen, and
there began to be great murmurings among them, be­
cause ofAaron and his brethren, ilut the king stood
forth among them, and administered unto them. And
they were pacified towards Aaron, and those who were
with him.
And it came to pass that when the king saw that
the people were pacified, he caused that Aaron and his
brethren should sUmi forth in the midst of the multi­
tude, and that they should preach the word unto them.
And it came to pass that the king sent a proclamation
throughout all the land, amongst all his people who
were m all his land, who were in all the regions round
about, which was bordering even to the sea, on the
east, and on the west, and which was divided from the
land of Zarahemla by a narrow strip of wilderness,
which ran fromthe sea east, even to the sea west, and
round about on the borders of the *ea shore, and the
3 0 5
borders of the wilderness which was on the north, ■
by
the land of Zarahemla, through the borders of Mantis
by the head of the river Sidon,/running from the east
towards the west; and thus were the Lamanites and
the Nephites divided. Now the more idle part of the
Lamanites lived in the wilderness, and dwelt in tents;
and they were spread through the wilderness, on the
west, in the land of Nephi; yea, and also on the west
of the land of Zarahemla, in the borders, by the sea­
shore, and on the west, in the land of Nephi, in the
place of their fathers’ first inheritance, and thus bor­
dering along by the seashore. And also there were
many Lamanites on the east by the seashore, whither
the Nephites bad driven them. And thus the Nephites
were nearly surrounded by the Lamanites; neverthe­
less the Nephites had taken possession of oil the nor­
thern parts of the land, bordering on the wilderness,
at the head of the river Sidon, from the east to the
west, round about on the wilderness side; on the
north, even until they came to the land which they
called Bountiful. And it bordered upon the land
which they called Desolation; it being so far. north­
ward that it came into the land which had been peo­
pled, and been destroyed, of whosebones we have spo­
ken, which was discovered by the people of Zarahem­
la; it being the place of their first landing. And they
came from there up into the south wilderness. Thus
the land on the northward was called Desolation, and
the land on the southward was called Bountiful; it be­
ing the wilderness which is filled with all manner of
wild animals of every kind; a part of which had come
from the land northward, for food. And now it was
only the distance of a day and a half’s journey for a
Nephite, on the tine Bountiful, and the land Desola­
tion, from the east to the west sea; and thus the land
of Nephi, and the land of Zarahemla, were nearly sur­
rounded by water; there being a small neck of land
between the land northward, and the land southward.
And it came to pass that the Nephites had inhabit­
ed the land Bountiful, even from the east unto the
west sea, and thus the Nephites in their wisdom, with
their guards and their armies, had hemmed in the La­
manites on the south, that thereby they should have
no more possession on the nerth, that they might hot
overrun the land northward; therefore the Lamanites
eeuld have ho more possessions only in the land' df
BOOS OF ALHA.
306
Nephi, and the wilderness round about. Now this
was wisdom in the Nephites; as the ,Latnantles were
an enemy to them, they would not suffer their afflic­
tions on every hand,.and also that they might have a
country whither they might idee, according to their
desires. And now I, after having said this, return
again to the account of Ammon, and Aaron, Omner
and Himui, and their brethren.
BODE OF ALMA.
CHAPTER XIV.
B k h o l d , now it came to pass that the king o f the
Lamanites sent a proclamation among all his people,
that they should not lay their hands on Ammon, or
Aaron, or Omner, or Himni, nor neither of their breth­
ren who should go forth preaching the word of God,
in whatsoever place they should be, in any part of
their land; yea, he sent a decree among them, that
they should not lay their hands on them to bind them,
or to cast them into prison; neither should they epit
upon them, nor smite them, nor cast them out of their
synagogues, nor scourge them; neither should they
cast stones at them, but that they should have free ac­
cess to their houses, and also their temples, and their
sanctuaries; and thus they might go forth and preach
the word according to their desires, for the king had
been converted unto the Lord, and all his household:
therefore he sent this proclamation throughout the
land unto his people, that the word of God might have
no obstruction, but that it might go forth throughout
all the land, that his people might be convinced con­
cerning the wicked traditions of their fathers, and that
they might be convinced that they were all brethren,
and that they ought not to murder, nor to plunder,
nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to commit
any manner of wickedness. And now it eame to pass
that when the king had sent forth this proclamation,
that Aaron and his brethren went fortn from city to
city, and from one house of worship to another, estab­
lishing churches, and consecrating priests and teach­
ers throughout the land among the Lamanites, to
preach and to teach the word of God among them;
and thus they began to havegreat success. And thou­
B O O K O F A tM A . 307
sands were brought to the knowledge of the Lord, yea,
thousands were brought to believe in the traditions of
the Nephites; and they were taught the records and
the prophecies which were handed down, even to the
present time; and as sure as the Lori liveth, so sure
as many as believed, or as many as were brought to
the knowledge of the truth, through the preaching of
Ammon and his brethren, according to the spirit of
revelation and of prophecy, and the power of God,
working miracles in them; yea, I say unto you, as the
Lord liveth, as many of the Lamanites as believed in
their preaching, and were converted unto the Lord,
never did fall away, for they became a righteous peo­
ple: they did lay clown the weapons of their rebellion,
that they did not light against God any more, neither
against any of their brethren. Now these are they
who were converted unto the Lord: the people of the
Lamanites who were in the land of Ishmoel, and also
of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land
of Middoni, and also of the people of the Lamanites
who were in the city of Nephi, and also of the people
of the Lamanites who were in the land of Shilom, and
who were in the land of Shemlon, and in the city of
Lemuel, and in the city of Shimnilom; and these are
the names of the cities of the Lamanites which were
converted unto the Lord; and these are they that laid
down the weapons of their rebellion, yea, all their
weapons of war; and they were all Lamanites. And
the Amalekites were not converted, save only one;
neither were any of the Amulonites; but they did har-
den their hearts, and also the hearts of the Lamanites
in that part of the land wheresoever they dwelt; yea,
and all their villages and all their cities; therefore we
have named all the cities of the Lamanites in which
they did repent and come to the knowledge of the
truth, and were converted.
And now it came to pass that the king and those
who were converted, were desirous that they might
have a name, that thereby they might be distinguish­
ed from their brethren; therefore the king consulted
with Aaron and many of their priests, concerning the
name that they should take upon them, that they might
be distinguished. And it came to pass that they call­
ed their name Anti-Nephi-Lehies; and they.-were call­
ed by. this name, and were do more called Lamanites.
Arid they began tri be a very industrious people; yea,
and they were friendly with the Nephites; therefore
308
they did open a correspondence with them, and the
curve of God did no more follow them.
And it came to pass that the Amalekites, and the
Amulonites, and the Laman'itea were in the land of
Amulou, and also in the land of Heiam, and who were
in the land of Jerusalem, and in fins, in all the land
round ■
.about, who had not been converted, and had
not taken upon them the name of Anti-Nephi-Lehi,
were stirred up by the Amalekites, and by the Amu-
lonites, to anger against their brethren; and their ha­
tred became exceeding sore against them, even inso­
much that they began to rebel against their king, in­
somuch that they would not that he should be their
king; therefore they look up arms against the people
of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.
Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son
and he called his name Anti-Nephi-Lehi. And the
king died in that self-same year that the Lamanites
began to make preparations for war against the people
of God. Now when Ammon and his brethren, and
all those who had come up with him, saw the prepar­
ations of the Lamanites to destroy their brethren,
they came forth to the land of Midian, and there Am­
mon met all his brethren; and. from thence they came
to the land ofIshtnael, that they might hold a council
with Lamoni, and also with his brother Anti-Nephi-
Lehi, what they should do to defend themselves
against the Lamanites. Now there was not one soul
among all the people who had been converted unto
the Lord, that would take up arms against their breth­
ren; nay, they would not even make any preparations
for war; yea, and also their king commanded tbein
that they should not. Now these are the words
whieh he said unto the people concerning the matter;
I thank my God, my beloved people, that our great
God has in goodness sent these our brethren, the Ne-
pbites, ante us to preach unto us, and to convince us
of the traditions of our wicked fathers. And behoid,
I thank my great God that he has given us a portion
of his spirit to soften our hearts, that we have opened
a correspondence with these brethren, the Nephites;
and behold, I also thank my God that by opening this
correspondence we have been convinced of our sins,
and of the many murders which we have committed;
and I also thank my God, yea, my great God, that he
hath granted onto us.that we might repent of these
things, and also;that! he hath forgtveausof those our
BOOK OB ALMA.
*
many sins and'murders which we have committed?
and took away the guilt from our hearts, through the
merits of his Son. And now behold, my brethren,
since it has been all that we could do, (as we were the
most lost of all mankind,) to repent of all our sins and
the many murders which we have committed^ and to
get God to take them away from our hearts, for it
was all we could do to repent sufficiently before God,
that he would take away our stain. Now my best be­
loved brethren, since God hath taken away our stains,
and our swords have become bright, then let us stain
our swords no more with the blood of our brethren.
Behold, I say unto you, nay, let us retain our swords,
that they be not stained with the blood of our breth­
ren: for perhaps, if we should slain our swords again,
they can no more be washed bright through the blood
of the Son of our great God, which shall be shed for
the atonement of our sins. And the great God lias
had mercy on us, and made these things known unto
us, that we might not perish; yea, and he has mada
these things known unto us beforehand, because he
loveth our souls as well as he loveth our children;
therefore in his mercy he doth visit us by his angels,
that the plan of salvation might be made known unto
us as well as unto future generations. O how merci­
ful is our God! And now behold, since it has been
as much as we could do to get our stains taken away
from us, and our swords are made bright, let us hide
them away that they may be kept bright, as a testimo­
ny to our God at the last day, or at the day that we
shall be brought to stand before him to be judged, that
we have not stained our swords, in the blood of our
brethren since he imparted his word unto us, and has
made us clean thereby. And now iny brethren, if our
brethren seek to destroy us, behold, we will hide
away our swords, yea, even we will bury them deep
in the earth, that they may be kept bright, as a testi­
mony that we have never used them, at the last day;
and if our brethren destroy us, behold, we shall go to
our God and shall be saved.
And now it came to pass that when the king had
made an end of these sayings, and all the people were
assembled together, they took their swords, and all
the weapons which were used for the shedding of
man's blood, and they did bury them up deep.in the
earth; and this they did, it being in their view a testi­
mony to God, and also to men, that they neverwould
B O O K O V A U f l. 3 Q P
3 1 0 BOOK OF ALMA.'’
use weapons again for the shedding of naan’s blood;
and this they did, vouching and covenanting with
God, that rather than shed the blood of their brethren,
they would give up their own lives; and ratlier than
take away from a brother, they would give unto him;
and rather than spend their days in idleness, they
would labor abundantly with their hands; and thus
we see that when these Lamanites were brought to
believe and to know the truth, they were firm, and
would suffer even unto death, rather than commit sin;
and thus we see, that they buried the weapons of
peace, or they buried the weapons of war, for peace.
And it came to pass that their brethren the Laman­
ites, made preparations for war, and came up to the
land of Nephi, for the purpose of destroying the king,
and to place another in his stead, and also of destroy­
ing the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi out of the land.
Now when the people saw that they were coming
against them, they went out to mtet them, and pros­
trated themselves before them to the earth, and began
to call on the name of the Lord; and thus ihey were
in this attitude when the Lamanites began to fall up­
on them, and began to slay them with the sword;
and thus without meeting any resistance, they did
slay a thousand and five of them; and we know that
they are blessed, for they have gone to dwell with
their God. Now when the Lamanites saw that their
brethien would not flee from the sword, neither would
they turn aside to the right hand or to the left, but
that they would Jie down and perish, and praised God
even in the vert act of perishing under the sword;
now when the Lamanites saw this, they did forbear
from slaying them; and there were many whose hearts
had swollen in them for those of their brethren who
had fallen under the sword, for they repented of the
things which they had done.
And it came to pass that they threw down their
weapons of war, and they would not take them again,
for they were stung for the murders which they had
committed; aud they came down even as their breth­
ren, relying upon the mercies of those whose arms
were lifted to slay them.
And it came to pass that the people of God were
joined that day by more than the number who had
been slain; and those who;had been slain were right­
eous people; therefore we have no reason to doubt but
what they are hayed; And there was not a wicked
311
BOOK OF AMLA.
man slain among them; but there were more, than? a
thousand brought to the knowledge of the truth; thus
we see that the Lord worketh in many ways to the
salvation of his people. Now the greatest number of
those of the Lamanites who slew so many of their
brethren, were Amalekites and Amuionites, the great­
est number of whom were after the order of the Ne-
hors. Now among those who joined the people of.the
Lord, there were none who were Amalekites or Aina*
Ionites, or who were of the order of Nehor, but they
were actual descendants of Laman and Lemuel: and
thus we can plainly discern, that after a people have
been once enlightened by the spirit of God, and have
had great knowledge of things pertaining to right­
eousness, and then have fallen away into sin and
transgression, they become more hardened, and thus
their state becomes worse than though they had never
known these things.
And behold, now it came to pass that those Laman­
ites were more angry, because they had slain their
brethren; therefore they swore vengeance upon the
Nephites; and they did no more attempt to slay the
people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi at that time; but they
took their armies and went over into the borders of
the land of £arahemla, and fell upon the people who
were in the land of Ammonihah, and destroyed them.
And after that, they had many battles with th e Ne­
phites, in the which they were driven and slain; and
among the Lamanites who were slain, were almost
ajl the seed of Amnion and his brethren, who were
the priests of Noali, and they were slain by the hands
of the Nephites; and the remainder having fled into
the east wilderness, and having usurped the power
and authority over the Lamanites, caused that many
of the Lamanites should perish by lire, because of
their belief: foy many of them, after having suffered
much loss and so many afflictions, began to bo stirred
up in remembrance of the words which Aaron and his
brethren had preached to them in their laud; therefore
they began to disbelieve the traditions of their lath­
ers, ana to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great
power unto the Nephites; and thus there were many
of them converted in the wilderness.
And it came to pass that those rulers who were the
remnant of the children, of Amulon, caused thatthey
should be put to death, yea, all those that believed in
these things. Now this martyrdom caused tkat many
$13 BOOK o r a l h a .
of their brethren should be stirred up to anger; and
there began to be contention in the wilderness; and the
Lamanites began to hunt the seed of Amulon and his
brethren, and began to slay them, and they fled into the
east wildeness. And behold they are hunted at this day,
by the Lamanites: thus the words of Abinadi were
brought to pass,which he said concerning the seed ofthe
priests who.caused that he should Buffer death by fire.
For he said unto them, what ye shall do unto me,
shall be a type of things to come. And now Abinadi
was the first that suffered death by fire, because of his
belief in God: now this is what he meant, that many
should suffer death by fire, according as he had suffer­
ed. And he said unto the priests of Noah, that their
seed should cause many to be put to death, in the like
manner as he was, and that they should be scattered
abroad and slain, even as a sheep having no shepherd
is driven and slain by wild beasts; and now behold,
these words were verified, for they were driven by
the Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they were
smitten.
And it came to pass that when.the Lamanites saw
that they could not overpower the Nephites, they re­
turned again to their own land; and many of them
came over to dwell in the land of Ishmael and the land
ofNepbi, and didjoin themselves to the people of God,
who were the people of Anti-Nephi-Lebi; and they
did also bury their weapons of war, according as their
brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people;
and they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did ob­
serve to keep his commandments, and his statutes,
yea, and they did keep the law of Moses: for it was
expedient that they should keep the law of Moses as
yet, for it was not all fulfilled. But notwithstanding
the law of Moses, they did look forward to the coming
ofChrist, considering that the law of Moses was a type
of his coming, and believing that they must keep those
outward performances, until the' time that he should
be revealed unto them. Now they did not suppose
that salvation came by the law of Moses; but the law
of Moses did serve to strengthen their faith in Christ;
and thus they did retain a hope through faith, unto
eternal salvation, relying upon the spirit of prophecy,
which spake of those things to come. And now be­
hold, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni,
and their brethren, did rejoiceexceedingly, for the sue-
oess which they hadhad among the Lamanites, seeing
BOOK OX ALMA. 313
that the Lord had granted unto them according to their
prayers, and that he had also verified his word unto
them in every particular* And now, these are the
words of Ammon to his brethren, which say thus:
My brothers and my brethren, behold I say unto you,
how great reason nave we to rejoice; for could we
have supposed, when we started from the land of Za-
rahemla, that God would have granted unto us such
great blessings1
? And now J ask, what great blessings
has he bestowed upon us? Can ye tell? Behold, I
answer for you, for our brethren, the Lamanites, were
in darkness, yea, even in the darkest abyss; but be­
hold, how many of them are brought to behold the
marvelous light of God! And..this is the blessing
which hath been bestowed upon us, that we have been
made instruments in the hands of God, to bring about
this great work. Behold, thousands ofthem do rejoice,
and have been brought into tire iold of God. Benold,
the field was ripe, and blessed are ye, ior ye did ‘thrust
in the sickle, and did reap with your mights, yea, all
the day long did ye labor: and behold the number of
your sheaves, and they shall be gathered into the gar­
ners, that they are not wasted; yea, they shall not be
beaten down by the storm, at the last day; yea, neith­
er shall they be harrowed up by the whirlwinds; but
when the storm cometh, they shall be gathered to­
gether in their place, that the storm cannot penetrate
to them; yea, neither shall they be driven with fierce
winds, whithersoever the enemy listeth to carry them.
But behold, they are in the hands of the Lord of the
harvest, and they are his; and he will raise them up
at the last day. Blessed be the name of our God; let
us sing to his praise, yea let us give thanks to his holy
name, for he doth work righteousness forever. For if
we had not come up out of the land of Zarahemla, these
our dearly beloved brethren, who have so dearly be­
loved us, would still have been racked with hatred
against us, yea, and they would also have been strang­
ers to God.
And it came to pass that when Ammon had said
these words, his brother Aaron rebuked him, saying:
Ammon, I fear that thyjoy doth carry thee away unto
boasting. But Ammon said unto him, I do not boast
in my own strength, or in my own wisdom; but behold,
my joy is frilly yea, my heart is brim with joy, and 1
will rejoice in my God; yea, I know that I am nothing;
314 BOOK OF ALMA.
as to my strength, 1 am weak; therefore I will not
boast of'myself, but I wifi boast of my God;1for in his
atrength 1 can do all things; yea, behold, many
mighty miracles we have wrought in this land, for
which, we will praise his name forever. Behold, how
many thousands of our brethren has he loosed from
the pains of hell; and they are brought to sing redeem­
ing love: and this because of the power of his word
which is in us; therefore have we hot great reason to
rejoice! Yea, we have reason to praise him forever,
for he is the most high God, and has loosed our breth­
ren from the chains of hell. Yea, they were encircled
about with everlasting darkness and destruction; but
behold, he has brought them into his everlasting light,
yea, into everlasting salvation; and they are encircled
about with the matchless bountyof Ins love; yea, and
we have been instruments in his hands, of doing this
great and marvelous work; therefore let us glory, yea,
we will glory in the Lord; yea, we will rejoice, for
our joy is full; yea, we will praise our God forever.
Behold, who can glory too much in the Lord? Yea,
who can. say too much of his great power, and of his
mercy, and of his long suffering towards the children
of men? Behold I; say unto you, I cannot say the
smallest part which I feel. Who could have supposed
that our God would have been so merciful as to have
snatched us from our awful, sinful, and polluted state?
Behold, we went forth even in wrath, with mighty
thieatnings lo destroy his elmrch. O then, why did
he not consign us to an awful destruction; yea, why
did he not let the sword ofhis justice fall upon us, anil
doom us to eternal despair? O my soul, almost as it
were, fleeth at the thought. Behold, he did not exer­
cise his justice upon us, but in his great mercy hath
brought us overjthat everlasting guff of death and mise­
ry, even to the salvation of our-souls. And now be­
hold, my brethren, what natural man is there, that
knoweth these things? I say unto you, there is none
that knoweth these things, save it be the penitent;
yea, he that repenteth and exereiseth faith, and bring-
eth forth good works, and prayeth continually without
ceasing: unto such it is given to know the mysteries
of God; yea, unto sueh it shall be given to reveal
things which never have been revealed; yea, and it
shallhe given unto such, to bring thousands of souls
to repentance, even. a%it has been given unto us to
bring these our brethren to repentance. Now do ye
BOOK OF A M U . 315
remember, my brethren, that we said unto our breth­
ren in the land of Zarahemla, wego.uptothe land of
Nephi, to preach Untoour brethren,-'the; Lamanites,
and they laughed us to scorn? For they said unto us,
do ye suppose that ye can bring the Lamanites to the
knowledge <of the.truth? Do ye suppose that ye can
convince the: Lamanites of the incorrectness of the
traditions of their fathers, as stiS’
neeked a people as
they are; whose hearts delight in the -shedding of
blood; whose days haveheen. spent in the grossest ini­
quity; whose ways have been the ways ot a traagres-
sor, -from the baginning? Now my brethren, ye re­
member that this was their huigaage. And moreover,
they did say,-let us take up arms against them, that
we destroy them and their iniquity out of the land,
lest they overrun us and destroy us. But behold, :iny
beloved brethren,. we came; inLo the wilderness not
with the intent; to destroy our brethren, but with .the
intent that perhaps we might save some lew of their
souls. Now when our hearts were depressed, and we
were about to turn back, behold, the Lord comforted
us, and said, go amongst thy brethren, the Lamanites,
and bear with .patience thine afflictions,,and I will
give unto you success. And now behold, we . have
come, and been forth amongst them; and we have
been patient, in our sufferings, and we have Buffered
every privation; yea, we have travelled from house to
house, relying upon the mercies of the world; not
upon the mercies of the world alone, but .upon the
mercies of God. And we have entered into their hou­
ses and taught .them, and we have taught them in their
streets; yea, and we have:taught them upon their hills;
and we have also entered into their temples aiid their
synagogues and taught them; and we have been cast
out, and mocked, and spit ,upon, and smote upon our
cheeks; and we have been stoned, and taken and bound
with strong cords, and cast into prison; and through
the power and wisdom of God, we have been delivered
again; and we have suffered all manner of afflictions,
and.all this, that perhaps we might be the means of
saving some soul; and we supposed that our joy would
be full, iff perhaps- we could be .the.-means of saving
some. i.Now behold, w.e. cau look forth and see the
fruits of our labors-; and are tliey-iew?.. say unto
you, nay, they are many; yea,- and we can witness
of5
.their sihcerity^^becanec of their love towards their
brethren, and also toward? us. For behold, they had
316 BOOK 0 7 ALMA.
rather sacrifice their lives, than even to take the life
of their enemy; and they have buried their weapons
of war deep in the earth, because of their love towards
their brethren. And now behold I say unto you, has
there been so great love in all the land? Behold; 1say
unto you, nay, there has not even among the Nephites.
For behoid, they would <
take up arms against their
brethren; they would not sufferthemselvestobe slain.
But behold, how many of these have laid down their
lives; and we know that they have gone to their God,
because of their love, and of their hatred to sin. Now
have we not reason to rejoice? Yea, 1 say unto you,
there never were men that had so great reason to re­
joice as we, since the world began; yea, and my joy
is carried away, even unto the boasting in my God;
for he has all power, all wisdom, and all understand­
ing; he comprehendeth all things, and he is a merciful
Being, even unto salvation, to those who will repent
and believe on his name. Now if this is boasting,
even so will I boast; for this is my life and my light,
my joy and my salvation, and my redemption from
everlasting wo. Yea, blessed is the name ofmy God,
who has been mindful of this people, who are a branch
of the tree of Israel, and has been lost from its body,
in a strange land; yea, I say, blessed be the name of
my God, who has been mindful of us wanderers in a
strange land. Now my brethren, we see that God is
mindful of every people, in whatsoever laud they may
be in; yea, he nnmbereth his people, andhis bowels
of mercy are over all the earth. Now this ie my joy,
and my great thanksgiving; yea, and I will give thanks
unto my God forever. Amen.
CHAPTER XV.
Now it came to pass that when those Lamanites
who had gone to war against the Nephites, had found,
after their many struggles to destroy them, that it was
in vain to seek their destruction, they returned again
to the land of Nepbi. And it came to pass that the
r Amalekites, because of their loss, were exceeding an-
L gry. And when1they eawj that they eootd not seek
^ revenge from the Nephites, they began to stir op the
l
BOOS OF ALMA. 317
people in anger against their brethren, the people of
Anti-Nepbi-Lehi; therefore they began again to de­
stroy them. Now this people again refused to take
their arms, and they suffered themselves to be slain
according to the desires of their enemies. Now when
Ammon and his brethren saw this work of destruction
among those who they so dearly beloved, and among
those who had so dearly beloved them; for they were
treated as though they were angels sent from God to
save them from everlasting destruction; therefore,
when Ammon and his brethren saw this great work of
destruction, they were moved with compassion, and
they said unto the king, let us gather together this
people of the Lord, and let us go down to the land of
Zarahemla, to our brethren, the Nephites, and Bee
out of the hands of our enemies, that we be not de­
stroyed. But the king said unto them, behold, the
Nephites will destroy us, because of the many mur­
ders and sins we have committed against them. And
Ammon said, I will go and inquire of the Lord, and if
he say unto us, go down unto our brethren, will ye
go? And the king said unto him yea; if the Lord
saith unto us go, we will go down unto our brethren,
and we will be their slaves until we repair unto them
the many murders and sins which we have committed
against them. But Ammon said unto him, it is against
the law ofour brethren, which was established by my
father, that there should be any slaves among them;
therefore let us go down and rely upon the mercies of
our brethren. But the king said unto him, inquire of
the Lord, and if he saith unto us go, we will go; oth­
erwise we will perish in the land.
And it came to pass that Ammon went and inquired
of the Lord, and the Lord said unto him, get this
people out of this land, that they perish not, for satan
has great hold on the hearts of the Amalekites, who
do stir up the Lamanites to anger against their breth­
ren, to slay them; therefore get thee out of this land;
and blesseu are this people in this generation; for I
will preserve them.
And now it came to pass that Ammon went and told
the king all the words which the Lord had said unto
him. And they gathered together all their people;
yea, all the people of the Lord, and did gather togeth­
er all their Bocks and herds, and departed out of the
land, and came into the wilderness which divided the
318 BOOK OF ALMA.
iand of Nephi from the land of Zarahemla, add came
over near the borders of the land.
And it came to pass that Ammon said unto them,
behold, I and my brethren will go forth into the land
of Zarahemla, and ye shall remain here until we return;
and we will try the hearts of our brethren, whether
they will that ye shall come into their land.
And it came to pass that as Ammon was going forth
into the land, that he and his brethren met Alma, over
in the place of which has been spoken; and behold,
this was a joyful meeting. Now the joy of Ammon
was so great, even that he was full; yea, lie was
swallowed up in the joy of bis (Jod, even to the ex­
hausting of his strength; and he fell again to the earth,
Now, was not this exceeding joy1 Behold, this is joy
which none receiveth save it be the truly penitent and
humble seeker of happiness. Now the joy of Alma in
meeting his brethren was truly great, and also the joy
of Aaron, of Omner, and Himni; but behold, their
joy was not that to exceed their strength.
And now it came to pass that Alma conducted his
brethren back to the land of Zarahemla; even to his
own house. And they went and told the chief judge
all the things that had happened unto them in the land
of Nephi among their brethren, the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the chiefjudge sent a proc­
lamation throughout all the land, desiring the voice of
the people concerning the admitting their brethren,
who were the people ofAnti-Nephi-Lehi. And it came
to pass that the voice of the people came, saying, be­
hold. we will give up the land of Jershon, which is
on the east by the sea, which joins the land Bountiful,
which is on the south of the land Bountiful; and this
land Jershon is the land which we will give unto our
brethren for an inheritance. And behold, we will set
our armies between the land Jershon and the land Ne­
phi, that we may protect our brethren in the land Jer­
shon; and this we do. for our brethren, on account of
their fear to take up arms against their brethren, lest
they should commit sin: and this their great fearcame,
because of their sore repentance which they had, on
account of their many:murders, and their awful wick­
edness. And now .behold, this will we do unto our
brethren, that they mayinherit the land Jershon; and
we will guard them from their enemies with our armies,
on conditions they will give ps a portion of their sub.
stance to assist us, that we may maintain our armies.
BOOS OF AJUUA.
Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard
this, he returned to the people of Anli-Nephi-Liehi,
and also Alma with him, into, the wilderness, whence
they had pitched their tents, and made known unto
them all these things. And Alma also related unto
them his conversion with Ammon; and Aaron, and
his brethren. And it came to pass that it did cause
great joy among them. And they went down into
the land of Jershon, and took possession of the landof
Jershon; and they were called by the Nephites the
people of Ammon: therefore they were distinguished
by that name ever after; and they were among, the
people of Nephi, and also numbered among the people
who were of the church of God. And they were also
distinguished for their zeal towards God, and also to­
wards men; for they were perfectly honest and up-,
right in all things; and they were farm.in the faith .of
Christ, even unto the end. And they did look upon
shedding the blood of their brethren with the greatest
abhorence; and they never could be prevailed upon to
take up arms against their brethren; and they never
did look upon death with any degree of terror lor their
hope and views of Christ and the resurrection; there­
fore death was swallowed jip to them by the victory of
Christ over it; therefore they would suffer death in
the most aggravating and distressing manner which
could be inflicted by their brethren, before they would
take the sword or the cimeter to smite them. Aud
thus they were a zealous and beloved people, a highly
favored people of the Lord,
And now it came to pass that after the people of
Ammon were established in the land of Jershon, and
a church also established in the land of Jershon; and
the armies of the Nephites were set round about the
and of Jershon; yea, in all the borders round about
the land of Zarahernia; behold the armies of the La-
manites had followed their brethren into the wilder­
ness. And thus there was a tremendous battle; yea,
even such an one as never had been known among all
the people iu the land from the time Lehi left Jerusa­
lem; yea, and tens of thousands of the Lamanites
were slain and scattered abroad. Yea, and also there
was a tremendous slaughter among the people of Ne­
phi; nevertheless, the Lamanites were- driven and
scattered, and the people of Nephi returned again to
their land. And now this was a time that there .was
a great mourning, and lamentation heard throughput
319!
8 2 0 B O O K 'O F ALMA.
all the land, among all the people of Nephi; yea, the
cry of widows mourning for their husbands, and alsoof
fathers mourning for their sons, and the daughter for
the brother; yea, the brother for the father; and thus
the cry of mourning was heard among every one of
them: mourning for their kindred who had been slain.
And now surelythis was a sorrowful day; yea, a time
of solemnity, and a time of much fasting and prayer:
and thus endeth the fifteenth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi; and this is the ac­
count of Ammon and his brethren, their journeyings
in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land, their
sorrows, and their afflictions, and their incomprehen­
sible joy, and the reception and safety of the brethren
in the land of Jershon. And now may the Lord, the
Redeemer of all men, bless their souls forever. And
this is the account of the wars and contentions among
the Nephites, and also the wars between the Nephites
and the Lamanites; and the fifteenth year of the reign
of the judges is ended; and from the first year to the
fifteenth, has brought to pass the destruction of many
thousand lives; yea, it has brought to pass an awful
scene of bloodshed; and the bodies of many thousands
are laid low in the earth, while the bodies of many
thousands are mouldering in heaps upon the face of
the earth: yea, and many thousands are mourning for
the loss of their kindred, because they have reason to
fear, according to the promises of the Lord, that they
are consigned to a state of endless wo; while many
thousands of others truly mourn for the loss of their
kindred, yet they rejoice and exult in the hope, and
even know, according to the promises of the Lord,
that they are raised to dwell at the right hand of God,
in a state of never ending happiness: and thus we see
how great the inequality of man is because of sin and
transgression, and the power of the devil, which comes
by the cunning plans which he hath devised to en­
snare the hearts of men; and thus we see the great
call of diligence of men to labor in the vineyards of the
Lord; and thus we see the great reason of sorrow, and
also of rejoicing: sorrow* because of death and destruc­
tion among men, and joy because of the light of Christ
unto life. G that I were on angel, and could have the
wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak
with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth,
and cry repentance unto every people; yea, I would
declare unto every soul, as with the .voice of thunder^
repentance, and the plan of redemption; that they
should repent and come unto our God, that there
might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the
earth. But behold, 1 am a man, and do sin in my
wish; for I ought to be content with the things which
the Lord hath allotted unto me. I ought not to har­
row up in my desires, the firm decree of a just God,
for I know that he granteth unto men according to
their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life;
yea, I know that he allottetb unto men, according to
their wills; whether they be unto salvation or unto
destruction; yea, and I know that good and evil have
come before all men; or he that knowetb not good from
evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil,
to him it is given according to his desires; whether he
desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of
conscience. Now seeing that I know these things,
why should I desire more than to perform the work to
which I have been called? Why should I desire that
I was an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of
the earth? For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all
nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his
word; yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they
should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth
counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just
and true. I know that which the Lord hath com­
manded me, and I glory in it: I do not glory of my­
self, but I glory in that which the Lord hath com­
manded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I
may be an instrument in the hands of God, to bring
some soul to repentance; and this is myjoy. And be­
hold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent,
and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul
filled with joy; then do I remember what the Lord has
done for me; yea, even that he hath heard my prayer;
yea; then do I remember his merciful arm which he
extended towards me; yea, and I also remember the
captivity oi my fathers; for I surely do know that the
Lord did deliver them out of bondage, and by this did
establish his church; yea, the Lora God, the God of
Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, did
deliver them out of bondage; yea, I have always re*'
membered the captivity of my fathers: and that same
God who delivered them out of the hands of the Egyp-“
tians, did deliver them out of bondage; yea, and that
same God did establish his church among them; yea,
and that same God hath called me by a holyCalung,
BOOK 0 7 ALMA. 321
323 BOOK OF ALHAv
to preach the word unto tins people, and hath given
me much success, in the which my joysis full; bul l
do not joy in my own success alone, but myjoy is more
full because of the success of my brethren, who have
been up to the land of Nephi. llehold, they have la­
bored exceedingly, and have brought fortii much fruit;
and how great shall be Lheir reward. Now when I
think of tire success of these my brethren, my'soul is
carried away, even to tire separation of it from the
body, as it were, so great is my joy.
And .now may God grant unto these my brethren,
that they may sit down in,the kingdom, of God; yea,
and also all those who are the fruit of their labors that
tiiey may go no more out, but that they may praise
him forever. And may God grant that it may be done
according to my words, even as 1have spoken. Amen.
'CHAPTER XVI.
Behold, now it came to pass that after the people
of Ammon were established in the land of Jershon,
yea, and also after the Lamanites were driven out of
the.land, and their dead were buried by tiie people of
the land.,. Now lheir dead were not numbered, because
of the greatness of their numbers; neither were the
dead of the Nephites numbered. But it came to pass
after they had buried their dead, and also after the days
of fasting, and mourning, and prayer, (and it was in
the sixteentli year of the reign of the judges over the
people of Nephi,) there began to be continual peace
throughout all the land, yea, and the people did ob­
serve to keep the commandments of the Lord; and
they were strict in observing the ordinances of God,
according to the law of Moses; for .they were taught
to keep the law of: Moses, until it should be fulfilled;
and thus the people did have no disturbance in all the,
sixteenth year of the reign of>
the judges over the
people of Nephi. > ^ ,
_And came to pass in the seventeenth year of the
reign of the judges, there was continual peace, But
it came to pass in the latter end of the seventeenth
year, there came a man. into the. land of Earahemla;
and he was Anti-Christ, for. he beigan to preach unto
the people against the prophecies which had been
spoken by the prophets, concerning the coming of
Christ. Now there was no law against a man’s
belief: for it was strictly contrary to the commands
of God, that there should be a law which should
bring men on to unequal grounds. For thus saith the
scripture.- Choose ye this day, whom ye will serve.;
Now ifa man desired to serve God, it was his privi­
lege, or rather if he-believed in God, it was his privi­
lege to serve him; but if he did not believe in him*
there was no law to punish him. But if he murdered,
he was punished unto death; and if lie robbed, hewas
also punished; and if he Btole, he was also punished;
and if he committed adultery, he was also punished;
yea, for all this wickedness, they were punished: for
there was a law, that men should be judged according
to their crimes. Nevertheless, there was no law
against a man's belief; therefore, a man was punished
only for the crimes which be bad done; therefore all
men were on equal grounds. And this Anti-Christ,
whose name was Korihor, (and the law could have no
hold upon him,) began to preach unto the people, that
there should be no Christ. And after this maimer
did he preach, saying: O ye that are bound down
under a foolish and a vain hope, why do ye yoke
yourselves with such foolish things! Why do ye look
for a Christ! For no man can know or any thing
which is to come. Behold, these things which ye call
prophecies, which ye say are handed down by holy
prophets, behold, they are foolish traditions of your
fathers. How do ye know of their surety! Behold,
ye cannot know of things which ye do not see; there­
fore ye cannot know that there snail be a Christ; Ye
look forward and say, that ye see a remission of your
sins. But behold, it is the effect of a phrensicd mind;
and this derangement of your minds conies because of
the tradition of your fathers, which lead you away in­
to a belief of things which are not so. And many
more such things did he say unto them, telling them
that there could be ho atonement made for the sins of
men, but every man fared in this life, according to the
management of the creature; therefore every man'
prospered according to his genius, and that every man
conquered according to his strength; and whatsoever
a man did, was no Crime. And thus he did preach
unto them, leading away the hearts of many; causing
them to lift up their heads in their wickedness,' yea,
BOOS OF ALMA. 3 3 $
324 BOOK OF ALMA.
leading away many women, and also men, to commit
whoredoms; telling them that when a man was dead,
that was the end thereof.
Now this man went over to the land of Jershon al­
so, to preach these things among the people of Am­
mon, who were .once the people of the Lamanites.
But behold, they were more wise than many of the
Nephites; for they took him, and bound him, and
carried him before Ammon, who was a high priest
over that people.
And it came to pass that he caused that he should
be carried out of the land. And he came over into
the land of Gideon, and began to preach unto them
also; and here he did not have much success, for he
was taken and bound, and carried before the high
priest, and also the chiefjudge over the land.
And it came to pass that the high priest said unto
him, why do ye go about perverting the ways of the
Lord! Why do ye teach this people that there shall
be no Christ, to interrupt their rejoicings'! Why do
ye speak against all the prophecies of the holy proph­
ets? Now the high priest’s name was Giddonah.—
And Korihor said unto him, because I do not teach
the foolish traditions of your fathers, and because I do
not teach this people to bind themselves down under
the foolish ordinances and performances which are
laid down by ancient priests, to usurp power and au­
thority over them, to keep them in ignorance, that
they may not lift up their heads, but be brought down
according to thy words. Ye say that this people is a
free people. Behold, 1 say they are in bondage. Ye
say that those ancient prophecies are true. Behold, I
say that ye do not know that they are true. Ye say
that this people is a guilty and a fallen people, be­
cause of the transgression of a parent. Behold, I say
that a child is not guilty because of its parents. And
ye also say that Christ shall come. But behold, I say
that ye do not know that there shall be a Christ. And
ye say also, that he shall be slain for the sins of the
world; and thus ye lead away this people after the
foolish traditions of your fathers, and according to
your own desires; and ye keep them down, even as it
were, in bondage, that y.e may glut yourselves with
the labors of their hands, that they durst not look
up with boldness,«and that, they durst not enjoy
their rights and privileges; yea, they durst not make
use of that which is their own, lest they should offend
BOOK or ALMA.
their priests, who do yoke them according to their de­
sires, and have brought them to believe by their tra­
ditions, and their dreams, and their whims, and their
visions, and their pretended mysteries, that they
should, if they did not do according to their words,
offend some unknown being, who they say is God; a
being who never has been seen nor known, who nev­
er was nor ever will be. Now when the high priest
and the chiefjudge saw the hardness of his heart; yea,
when they saw that he would revile even against God,
they would not make any reply to his words; but
they caused that he should be bound; and they deliv­
ered him up into the hands of the officers, and,sent
him to the land of Zarahemla, that he might be
brought before Alma, and the chief judge, who was
governor over all the land.
And it came to pass that when he was brought be­
fore Alma and the chief judge, he did go on in the
same manner as he did in the land of Gideon; yea, he
went on to blaspheme. And be did rise up in great
swelling words before Alma, and did revile against the
priests and teachers, accusing them of leading away
the people after the silly traditions of their fathers,
for the sake of glutting in the labors of the people.—
Now Alma said unto him, thou knowest that we do
not glut ourselves upon the labors of this people; for
behind, I have labored even from the commencement
of the reign of the judges, until now, with mine own
hands, for my support, notwithstanding my many
travels round about the land, to declare the word of
God unto my people. And notwithstanding the ma­
ny labors which I have performed in the church, I
have never received so much as even one senine for
my labor; neither has any of my brethren, save it
were in the judgment seat; and then we have receiv­
ed only according to law, for our time. And now if
we do not receive any thing for our labors in the
church, what doth it profit us to labor in the church,
save it were to declare the truth, that we may have
rejoicings in the joy of our brethren? Then why say-
est thou that we preach unto this people to get gain,
when thon of thyself knowest that we receive no
gain? And now, believest thou that we deceive this
people, that causes such joy in their hearts? And
Korihor answered him, yea. And then Alma said un-
to him, believest thou that there is a God? Arid he
answered, nay. Now Alma said unto him, will ye
3 2 5
3 2 6 BOOK OP ALMA.
deny again that there is a God, and also deny the
Christ? for behold, I say unto you, I know there is a
God,, and also that Cnrist shall come. And now,
what evidence have ye that there is no God, or that
Christ cometh not? I say unto you that ye have
none, save it be your word only. But behold, I have
all things as a testimony that these things are true;
and ye also have all things as a testimony unLa you
that they are true; and will ye deny them? . Behev-
est thou that these things are true? Behold, 1 know
that thou believest, but thou art possessed with a ly­
ing spirit, and ye have pul oft' the spirit of God, that
it may have no place in you; but the devil has power
over you, and he doth carry you about, working de­
vices, that he may destroy the children of God. And
now Korihor said unto Alma, if thou wilt shew me a
sign, that I may ha convinced that there is a God,
yea, shew unto me that he hath power, and then will
I be convinced of the truth of thy words. But Alma
said unto him, thou hast had signs enough; will ye
tempt your God? Will ye say, shew unto me a sign,
when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren,
and also all the holy prophets? The scriptures are
laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a
God,*- yea, even the earth, and all things that are up­
on -the faee of it, yea, and its motion; yea, and also
all the planets which move in their regular form, doth
witness that there is a Supreme Creator;, arid yet do
ye go about, leading away the hearts of this people,
testifying unto them there is no God? And yet will
ye deny against all these witnesses? And he said,
yea, 1 will deny, except ye shall shew me a sign.
And now it came to pass that Alma said unto him,
behold, I am grieved because of the hardness of your
heart; yea, that ye will still resist Lite-spirit of the
truth, that thy soul may be destroyed. But behold, it
is better that thy soul should be lost, than that thou
shouldest be the means of bringing many souls down
to destruction, by thy lying, and by thy flattering
words; therefore if thou shalt deny again, behold;
God shall smite thee, that thou shalt become dumb,
that thou shalt never open Uiy mouth any more,: that
thou shalt not deceive this .people any more. Now
Korihor said?unto him,: l do not deny the existence of
a God, but I do not believe that there ia a God; and I
say also, that ye do not know that there; is a God;
and except ye shew nia asign, T'will.not believe.—
BOOK OF ALMA.
Now Alma said-unto him, this will I give unto thee
fora sign, that thou shall be struck dumb, according
to my words; and I say, that in the name of God, ye
shall be struck dumb, that ye shad no more have ut­
terance. Now when Alma had said these words, Ko­
rihor was struck dumb, that he could not have utter­
ance, according to the words of Alma. And now
when the chiet judge saw this, he put forth his hand
and wrote unto Korihor, saying: art thou convinced
of the power of a God? In whom did ye desire that
Alma should shew forth his sign? Would ye that he
should afflict others, to shew unto .thee a sign? Be­
hold, he has showed unto you a sign; and now will
ye dispute more? And Korihor put forth his hand,
and wrote, saying: I know that I am dumb, for I can-,
not speak: and I know that nothing, save it were the
power of God, could bring this upon me; yea, and I
also knew that there was a God. But behold the dev­
il hath deceived me; for he appeared unto me in the
form of an angel, and said unto me, go and reclaim
this people, for they have all gone astray after an un­
known God. And he said unto me, there is no God;
yea, and he taught me that which I should say- And
I have taught his words; and Ttaught them, because
they were pleasing unto the carnal mind; and I taught
them, even until 1 had much success, insomuch that I
verily believed that they were true; and for this
cause, I withstood the truth, oven until I’have brought
this great curse upon me. Now when he had said
this, lie besought that Alma should pray unto God,
that the curse might be taken from him. Bub Alma
said unto him, if this curse should be taken from thee,
thou wouldest again lead away the hearts ofthis people;
therefore, it shall be unto thee, even as the Lord will*
And it came to pass that the curse was not taken
off of Korihor; but he was cast out, and went about
from house to house, begging for his food. Now the
knowledge of what had happened unto Korihor, was
immediately published throughout all the land; yea,
the proclamation was sent forth by the chiefjudge, to
all the people in the land, declaring unto those who
had believed in the words of Korihor, that they must
speedily repent, lest the same judgments would come
unto them. ■ *;
And it came to pass that they were all convinced
of the wickedness of Korihor; therefore they wejre all
converted again unto the Lord; and thie put an end
3 2 7 ;
338 BOOK OF ALMA.
to the iniquity after the manner of Korihor. And
Korihor did go about from house to house, begging
food for his support.
And it came to pass that as lie went forth among
the people, yea, among a people who had sepaiated
themselves from the Nephites, and called themselves
Zoramites, being led by a man whose name was Zo-
ram; and as he went forth amongst them, behold, he
was run upon, and trodden down, even until he was
dead; and thus we see the end of him who perverteth
the ways of the Lord; and thus we see that the devil
will not support his children at the last day, but doth
speedily drag them down to hell.
.Now it came to pass that after the end of Korihor,
Alma having received tidings that the Zoramites were
perverting the ways of the Lord, and that Zoram,
who was their leader, was leading the hearts of the
people to bow down to dumb idols, &c., his heart
again began to sicken, because of the iniquity of the
people; for it was the cause of great sorrow to Alma,
to know of iniquity among his people; therefore his
heart was exceeding sorrowful, because of the separa­
tion of the Zoramites from the Nephites. Now the
Zoramites had gathered themselves together in a land
which they called Antionum, which was east of the
land of Zarahemla, which lay nearly bordering upon
the seashore, which was south of the land of Jershon,
which also bordered upon the wilderness south, which
wilderness was full or the Lamanites. Now the Ne­
phites greatly feared that the Zoramites would enter
into a correspondence with the Lamanites, and that it
would be the means of great loss on the part of the
Nephites. And now, as the preaching of the word
had a great tendency to lead the people to do that
which was just; yea, it had had more powerful effect
upon the minds of the people than the sword, or any
thing else, which had happened unto them: therefore
Alma thought it was expedient that they should try
the virtue of the word of God. Therefore he took Am­
mon, and Aaron, and Omner; and Himni he did leave
in the church in Zarahemla; but the former three he
took with him, and also Amulek and Zeezrom, who
were at Melek; and he also took two of bis sons.—
Now the eldest of his sons he took not with him; and
his name was Helaman; but the names of those whom
he took with him, were Shiblon and Corianlon; and.
these are the names of. those a
who went with him.
BOOK OP ALMA; ‘ 329
among the Zoramites, to preach onto them the word.
Now the Zoramites were dissenters from the Ne-
phites; therefore they had the word of God preached
unto them. But they had fallen into great errors, for
they would not observe to keep the commandments of
God, and his statutes, according to the law of Moses;
neither would they observe the performances of the
church, to continue in prayer and supplication to God
daily, that they might not enter into temptation; yea,
in fine, they did pervert the ways of the Lord in very
many instances; therefore, for this cause, Alma and
his brethren went into the land, to preach the word
unto them.
Now when they had come into the lahd, behold, to
their astonishment, they found that the Zoramites
had built synagogues, and that they did gather them­
selves together on one day of the week, which day
they did call the day of the Lord; and they did wor­
ship after a manner which Alma and his brethren had
never beheld; for they had a place built up in the cen­
tre of their synagogue, a place for standing, which
was high above the head; and the top thereof would
only admit one person. Therefore, whosoeverdesired
to worship, must go forth and stand upon the top
thereof and stretch forth his hands towards, heaven;
and cry with a loud voice, saying; Holy, holy God;
we believe that thou art God, and we believe that
thou art holy, and that thou wast a spirit, and that
thou art a spirit, and that thou wilt be a spirit forever.
Holy God, we believe that thou hast separated us
from our brethren; and we do not believe in the tra­
dition of our brethren, which was handed down to
them by the childishness of their fathers; but we be­
lieve that thou hast elected us to be thy holy children;
and also thou hast made it known unto us that there
shall be no Christ; but thou art the same, yesterday,
to-day, and forever; and thou hast elected us, that we
shall be saved, whilst all around us are elected to be
cast by thy wrath down to hell; for the which holi­
ness, O God, we thank thee; and we also thank thee
that thou hast elected us, that we may not be led
away after thefoolish traditions of our brethren, which
doth bind them down to a beliefof Christ, which dbth
lead their hearts to wander far from thee, our God.
And again: We thank thee1
, O God, that we hire a
chosen and a holy people. Amen.
330 BOOK OF ALMA.
Now it came to pass that after Alma and his breth­
ren, and his sons, had heard these prayers, they were
astonished beyond all measure. For behold, every
man did go forth and offer up the same prayers. Now
the piace was called by them Rameumptom, which
being interpreted, is the Holy Stand. Now from this
stand, they did offer up, every man, the self-same
prayer unto God, thanking their God that they were
chosen of him, and that he did not lead them away
after the tradition of their brethren; and that their
hearts were not stolen away to believe in things to
come, which they knew nothing about.
Now after the people had all offered up thanks after
this manner, they returned to their homes, never
speaking of their God again, until they had assembled
themselves together again, to the holy stand, to offer
up thanks after their manner. Now when Alma saw
this, his heart was grieved: for he saw that they were
a wicked and a perverse people; yea, he saw that
their hearts were set upon gold, and upon silver, and
upon all manner of fine goods. Yea, and he also saw
that their hearts were lifted up unto great boasting,
in their pride. „ And he lifted up his voice to heaven,
and cried, saying: O how long, O Lord, wilt thou
suffer that thy servants shall dwell here below in the
flesh, to behold, such gross wickedness among, the
children of men. Behold, O God, they cry unto thee,
and yet their hearts are swallowed up in their pride.
Behold, O God, they cry unto thee with their mouths,
while they are puffed up, even to greatness, with the
vain things of the world. Behold, O my God, their
costly apparel, and their ringlets, and their bracelets,
and their ornaments of gold, and all their precious
things which they are ornamented with; and behold,
their hearts are set upon them, and yet they cry unto
thee and say, we thank thee, O God, for we are a
chosen people unto thee, while others shall perish.—
Yea, and they say that thou hast made it known unto
them, that there shall be no Christ. O Lord God,
how long wilt thou suffer that such wickedness and
iniquity shall be among this people! O Lord, wilt
thou give me strength, that I may bear.with mine in­
firmities! for I am infirm, and such wickedness among
this people doth pain my soul. O Lord, my heart is
exceeding sorrowful; wilt- thou* comfort my soul in
Christ! O Lord, wilt thou grant onto me that I may
have strength, that I may suffer with patience these
BOOK OF ALMA.
afflictions which shall come upon me, because of the
iniquity of this people?- O Lord, wilt thou comfort
my soul, and give unto me success, and also my fel­
low-laborers who are with me; yea, Ammon, and
Aaron, and Omner, and also Amulek, and Zcezrom,
and also my two sons; yea, even all these wilt thou
comfort, 0 Xidrdf Yea, wilt thou comfort their souls
in Christ! Wilt thou grant unto them that they may
have strength, that they may bear their afflictions
which shall come upon them, because of the iniquities
of this people? O Lord, wilt thou grant unto us that
we may have success in bringing them again unto
thee, in Christ? Behold, O Lord, their souls are pre­
cious, and many of them are our brethren, therefore,
give unto us, O Lord, power and wisdom, that we
may bring these, our brethren, again unto thee.
Nowit came to pass, that when Alma had said these
words, that he clapped his hands upon all them who
were with hifn. And behold, as he clapped his hands
upon them, they were filled with the holy Spirit.—
And after that, they did separate themselves one from
another; taking no thought for themselves what they
should eat, or what they should drink, or what they
should put on. And the Lord provided for them that
they should hunger not, neither should they thirst;
yea, and he also gave them strength, that they should
suffer no manner of afflictions, save it were swallowed
up in the joy of Christ. Now this was according to
the prayer of Alma; and this because he prayed in
faith.
And it came to pass that they.did go forth, and be­
gan to preach the word of God unto the people, enter­
ing into their synagogues, and into their houses; yea,
and even they did preach the word in their streets.—
Andit came to pass that after much labor arnong them,
they began to have success among the poor,.class, of
people; for^behold, they were cast out of the syna­
gogues, because of the coarseness of their apparel;
therefore they were not permitted to enter into their
synagogues,to worship God, being esteemed as filthi­
ness; therefore they were poor; yea, they were e s ­
teemed by their brethren as dross; therefore-they were
poor as to.things ofthe world; and also they Were poor
tn heart.
Now.as Alma was leaching and speaking unto the
people upon the hill Onidah, there came a^great mul­
titude unto him, who were those of whom we have
331
332 BOOK OF AUMA.
been speaking, of whom were poor in heart, because
of their poverty as to the things of the world. And
they came unto Alma; and the one who was the most
foremost among them, said unto him, behold, what
shall these my brethren do, for they are despised of
all men, because of their poverty; yea, and more es­
pecially by our priests; for they have cast us out of
our synagogues, which we have labored abundantly to
build, with our own hands; and they have cast us out
because of our exceeding poverty, and we have no
place to worship our God; and behold, what shall we
do? And now when Alma heard this, he turned him
about, his face immediately towards him, and he be­
held, with great joy; for he beheld that their afflic­
tions had truly humbled them, and that they were in
a preparation to hear the word; theretore he did say
no more to the other multitude, but he Btretched forth
his hand, and cried unto those whom he beheld, who
were truly penitent, and said unto them, I behold that
ye are lowly in heart; andj f so, blessed are ye. Be­
hold, thy brother hath said, what shall we do? for we
are cast out of^our synagogues, that we cannot wor­
ship our God. Behold 1 say unto you, do ye suppose
that ye cannot worship God, save it be in your syna­
gogues only? And moreover, I would ask, do ye sup­
pose that ye must not worship God only once in a
week? I say unto you, it is well that ye are cast out
of your synagogues, that ye may be humble, and that
ye may learn wisdom; for it is necessary that ye
should learn wisdom; for it is because that ye are cast
out, that ye are despised of your brethren, because of
}
?our exceeding poverty, that ye are brought to a low-
iness of heart; for ye are necessarily brought to be
humble. And now because ye are compelled to be
humble, blessed are ye; for a man sometimes, if he is
compelled to he humble, seeketh repentance; and now
surely, whosoever repentelh, shall find mercy: and he
that findeth mercy and endureth to the eud, the same
shall be saved. And now as I said unto you, that be­
cause ye were compelled to be humble, ye were bles­
sed, do ye not suppose that they are more blessed who
truly humble themselves because of the word? Yea,
he that truly humbleth himself, and repenleth of his
sins, and endureth to the end the same shall be bles­
sed; yea, much- more blessed than they who are com­
pelled to J>e humble; because of their exceeding pover­
ty; therefore blessed are they who humUe themselves
BOOK OF ALHA. 3 3 3
without being compelled to be bumble; or rather, in
other words, blessed is he that believeth in the word
of God, and is baptized without stubborness of heart;
yea, without being brought to know the word, or even
compelled to know, before they will believe. Yea,
there are many who do say, if thou wilt show unto us
a sign from heaven, then we shall know of a surety;
then we shall believe. Now I ask, is this faith? Be­
hold, I say unto you, nay; for if a man knoweth a
thing, he hath no cause to believe, for he knoweth it.
And now, how much more cursed is he that knoweth
the will of God arid doeth it not, than he that only be­
lieveth, or only hath cause to believe, and falleth into
transgression? Now of this thing, ye must judge.—
Behold, I say unto you, that it is on the one hand,
even as it is on the other; and it shall be unto every
man according to his work.
And now a&I said concerning faith: Faith, is not
to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye
have faith, ye hope for things which are not seen,
which are true. And now, behold, I say unto you:
and I Would that ye should remember that God is
merciful unto all who believe on bis name; therefore
he desireth, in the first place, that ye should believe,
yea, even on his word. And now, he imparteth his
word by angels, unto men; yea, not only men, but
women also. Now this is not all: little children do
have words given unto them many times, which con­
found the wise and the learned.
And now, my beloved brethren, as ye have desired
to know of me what ye shall do because ye are afflict-
ed and cast out: now I do not desire that ye should
suppose that I mean to judge you only according to
that which is true; for 1 do not mean that ye all of
you have been compelled to humble yourselves; for I
verily believe that there are some among you who
would humble themselves, let them be in<whatsoever
circumstances they might. Now as I said concerning
faith—that it was not a perfect knowledge, even so it
is with my words. -Ye cannot know of their surety
at first, unto perfection, any more than faith is a per­
fect knowledge; But behold, if ye will awake and
arouse your fhoulties, even to an experiment upon my
words, and exercise a particle of faith; yea, even if ye
can rio more than desire to believe^ fet this desire work
in yOrij even until ye believe in a mamrier that ye can
give place fora portioii of iriy1
%6rdsrMNow wS' will
334 BOOK OF ALMA.
compare the word unto a seed. Now if ye give place,
that a seed may be planted in your heart, behold, if it
be a true seed, or a good seed, if ye do not cast it out
by your unbelief, that ye will resist the spirit of the
Lord, behold, it will begin to swell within your breasts;
and when you feel these swelling motions, ye will be­
gin to say within yourselves, it must needs be that
this is a good seed, or that the word is good, for it be­
ginneth to enlarge my soul; yea, it beginneth to en­
lighten my understanding; yea, and it beginneth to be
delicious to me. Now behold, would not this increase
your faith? I say unto you, yea; nevertheless it hath
not grown up to a perfect knowledge. But behold, as
the seed swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to
grow, then ye must needs say, that the seed is good;
for behold it swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to
grow. And now behold, are ye sure that tills is a good
seed? I say unto you, yea; for every seed briugeth
forth unto its own likeness; therefore,Hfa seed grow-
eth, it is good, but if it groweth not, behold, it is not
good; therefore it is cast away. And now, behold,
because ye have tried the experiment, and.planted the
seed, and it swelleth, and sprouteth,. and beginneth to
grow, ye must needs know that the seed is good.—
And now behold, is your knowledge perfect? Yea,
your knowledge is perfect in that thing, and your faith
is dormant; and this because you know; for ye know
that the word hath swelled your souls, and ye also
know that it hath sprouted up, that your understand­
ing doth begin to be enlightened, and your mind doth
begin to expand. 0 then,.is not this real? I say un­
to you, yea; because it is light; and whatsoever is
light, is good, because it is discernible; therefore ye
must know that it is good. And now behold, after y e
have tasted this light, is your knowledge, perfect?—
Behold, I say unto you, nay : neither must ye lay aside
your faith, for ye have only exercised, your faith to
plant the seed, that ye might try the experiment, to
know if the seed.was good. And behold, as the tree
beginneth to grow,,ye r w i l l say, let us nourish it with
great care, that it may gat root, that it may. grow up
and bring forth fruit unto. us. And now bphold, ifye
nourish it with much care, it will get root, and grow
up, and bring forth fruit But if ye neglect the tree,
and take no thought for its nourishment, behold, it
will not get any .root;, and whrn the.heat of the sun
cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath j»o root, it
BOOK OF ALMA. 335
withers away, arid ye pluck it up and cast it out;—
Now this is not because the seed was not good: neither
is it because the fruit thereof would not be desirable.
But it is because your ground is barren, and ye will
not nourish the tree; therefore ye cannot have the
fruit thereof. And thus if ye will not nourish the
word, looking forward with an eye of faith to the fruit
thereof, ye can never pluck of the fruit of the tree of
life. But ifye will nourish the word,' yea, nourish the
tree as it beginneth to grow, by your faith with great
diligence, and with patience, looking forward to the
fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold, it shall be
a tree springing up unto everlasting life; and because
of your diligence, and your faith, and your patience
with the word, in nourishing it, that it may take foot
in you, behold, by and by, ye shall pluck the fruit
thereof, which is most preeious, which is sweet above
all that is sweet, and which is white above all that is
white; yea, arid pure above all that is pure; and ye
shall feast upon this fruit, even until ye are hlled, that
ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst. Then irriybreth­
ren ye shall reap the rewards of your faith, and your
diligence, and patience, and long suffering, waiting for
the tree to bring forth fruit unto you.
Now after Alma had spoken these words, they sent
forth unto him desiring to know whether they should
believe in one God, that they might obtain this fruit
of which he had spoken, or how they should plant the
seed, or the word, of which he had spoken, which he
said must be planted in their hearts; or in what man­
ner they should begin to exercise their faith? And
Alma said unto them, behold ye have said that ye
could not worship your God, because ye are cast orit
ofyour Synagogues. But behold, I say unto you, if
ye suppose that ye cannot worship God, ye do greatly
err, and ye ought to search the scriptures; if ye sup- .
pose that they have taught you this, ye do not under­
stand them. Do ye remember to have read what Ze­
nos, the prophet of old, has said concerning prayer or
worsliip? for he said, thou art merciful O God, for
thou hast heard my prayer, even when I was in the
wilderness; yea, thou wast merciful wheh I prayed
concerning those who were mine enemies, and thou'
didst turn them to me; yea, O God, and thou wast
merciful unto me when I did cry unto thee in my field;
when I did cry unto thee in my prayer, and thou didst
hear me. And again, ,0 God, when ! did turn to my
336 BOOK OF ALUA.
house thou didst hear me in my prayer. And when
I did turn unto my closet, Q Lord, and prayed unto
thee* thou didst bear me; yea, thou art merciful unto
thy children when they cry unto thee to he heard of
thee, and not of men, and thou wilt hear them; yea,
O God thou hast been merciful unto me and heard my
cries in the inidBt ofthy congregations; yea, and thou
hast also heard me when I have been cast out, and
have been despised by mine enemies; yea, thou didst
hear my cries, and wast angry with mine enemies, and
thou didst visit them in thine anger, with speedy des­
truction; and thou didst hear me because of mine af­
flictions and my sincerity; and, it is because of thy
Son that thou hast been thus merciful unto ine; there­
fore I will cry unto thee in all mine afflictions; for in
thee is my joy; for thou hast turned thy judgments
away from me, because of thy Son.
And now Alma said unto them, do ye believe those
scriptures which have been written by them of old?—
Behold, if' ye do, ye must believe what Zenos said;,
for behold, he said, thou hast turned away thy judg­
ments, because of thy Son. Now behold, my breth­
ren, I would ask, if ye have read the scriptures? If
ye have, how can ye disbelieve on the Son of God?—
For it is not written that Zenos alone spake of these
things, but Zenock also spake of these things; for be­
hold, be said, thou art angry, O Lord, with this peo­
ple, because they will not understand of thy mercies
which thoa hast bestowed upon them, because of tby
Son. And now my brethren, ye see that a second
prophet of old has testified of the Son of God; and be­
cause the people would not understand his words, they
stoned him to death. But behold, this is not all; these
are not the only ones who have spoken concerning the
Son of God. Behold, he was spoken of by Moses;
yea, and behold*. a type was raised up in the wilder­
ness, that whosoever, would look upon it might live.
And many did look and live. But few understood the
meaning of those things, and this because of the hard­
ness of their hearts. , But there were many who were
so hardened that they would not look; therefore they
perished. Now the reason they would not look, is
because they did not believe that it would heal them.
O my brethren, if ye could be healed by merely cast-
iag about your eyes, that ye. might be healed, would
J
e not behold quickly, or would ye rather harden vour
earta in unbeUefiand baelotbfuljthat^ye would hot
BOOK o r ALHA. 337
cast about your eyes, that ye might perish? If so, wo
shall come upon you; but if not so, then cast about
your eyes and begin to believe in the Son of God, that
he will come to redeem his people, and that he shall
suffer and die to atone for their sins; and that he shall
rise again from the dead, which shall bring to pass the
resurrection, that all men shall stand before him, to
be judged, at the last and judgment day, according to
their works. And now my brethren, 1 desire that ye
shall plant this word in your hearts, and as it begin-
neth to swell, even so nourish it by your faith. And
behold, it will become a tree, springing up in you un­
to everlasting life. And then may God grant unto
you that your burdens may be light, through the joy
ofhis Son. And even all this can ye do, if ye will.—
Amen.
And now it came to pass that after Alma had spoken
these words unto them, he sat down upon the ground,
and Amulek arose and began to teach them, saying,
my brethren, I think that it is impossible that ye should
be ignorant of the things which have been spoken con­
cerning the coming of Christ, who is taught by us to
be the Son of God; yea, I know that these things
were taught unto you, bountifully, before your dissen­
sion from among us. And as ye have desired of my
beloved brother, that he should make known unto you
what ye should do, because ofyour afflictions; and he
hath spoken somewhat unto you to prepare your
minds; yea, and he hath exhorted you unto faith, and
to patience; yea, even that ye would have so much
faith as even to plant the word in your hearts, that ye
may try the experiment of its goodness; and we have
beheld that the great question which is in your minds,
is whether the word be in the Son of God, or whether
there shall be no Christ. And ye also beheld that my
brother has proven unto you, in many instances, that
the word is in Christ, unto salvation. My brother
has called upon the words of Zenos, that redemption
cometli through the Son of God, and also upon the
words of Zenock; and also he has appealed unto Mo­
ses, to prove that these things are true. And now be­
hold, I will testify unto you of myself, that these,
things are true. Behold, I say unto you, that I do
know that Christ shall come among the children of
men, to take upon him the transgressions of‘his peo­
ple, and that he shall atone for the sins of the world;
for the Lord God has spoken it; for it is expedient
338 BOOK OF ALMA.
that an atonement should be made; for according to
the great plan of the eternal God, there must bean
atonement made, or else all mankind must unavoidably
perish; yea, all are hardened; yea, all are fallen, and
are lost, and must perish except it be through the
atonement which it is expedient should be made; for
it is expedient that there should be a great and last sa­
crifice; yea, not a sacrifice of man, neither of beast,
neither of any manner of fowl; for it shall not be a hu­
man sacrifice; hut it must bean infinite and eternal
sacrifice. Now there is not any man that can sacri­
fice his own blood, which will atone for the sins ofan-
other. Now if a man murdereth, behold, will our law,
which is just, take the life of his brother'! I say unto
you, nay. But the law requireth the life of him who
hath murdered; therefore there can be nothing, which
is short of an infinite atonement, which will suffice for
the sins of the world; therefore it is expedient that
there should be a great and last sacrifice; and then
shall there be, or it is expedient there should be,a stop to
the shedding of blood; then shall the law of Moses be
fulfilled; yea, it shall all be fulfilled; everyjot and tittle,
and none shall have passed away. And behold, this is
the whole meaning of.the law; every whit pointing to
that great and last sacrifice; and that great and last sac-
ncc will be the Son of God; yea,infinite and eternal; and
thus he shall bring salvation to all those whoshall believe
on his name; this being the intent ofthis last sacrifice.to
bring about the bowels of mere}', which overpowereth
justice ami Imngeth about means unto'men that they
may have faith unto repentance. And thus mercy can
satisfy the demands of justice, and encircles them in
the arms of safety, while he that exercises no faith un­
to repentance, is exposed to the whole law of the de­
mands of justice; therefore, only unto him that has
faith unto repentance, is.brought about the great and
eternal plan of redemption. Therefore may Godgrant
unto you, my brethren, that ye may begin to exercise
your faith unto repentance, that ye begin to call upon
his holy name, that he would have mercy upon yon:
yea, cry unto him for mercy; for he is mighty to save:
yea, humble yourselves, and continue in prayer unto
him; cry unto him when ye are in your fields; ye*:
overall your flocks; cry unto him in your houses, y
e®
:
over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and
evening; .yea, cry unto him against the power of your
enemies; yea, cry unto <
him against the devil, who is
BOOK OF ALMA. 3 3 9
an enemy to all righteousness. Cry unto him over
the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them:
cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may in­
crease. But tliis is not all; ye must pour out your
souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in
your wilderness; yea, and when you do not cry unto
"the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer
unto him continually for your welfare, and also tor the
welfare of those who are around you.
And now behold, tny beloved brethren, I say unto
you, do not suppose that this is all; for alter ye have
done aii these tilings, if ye turn away the needy, and
the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and im­
part of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand
in need; 1 say unto yon, if yc do not any of these
things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you
nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the
faith; therefore, if ye do not remember to be charita­
ble, ye are as dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it
being of no worth,) and is trodden under foot of men.
And now, my brethren, I would that after ye have
received so many witnesses, seeing that the holy
scriptures testify of these things, come forth and bring
fruit unto repentance; yea, I would that ye would
come forth and harden not your hearts any longer; for
behold, now is the ti.ne, and the day of your salvation;
and therefore, if ye will repent and harden not your
hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption
bebrought about nnLo you. For behold, this life is the
time lor men to prepate to meet God; yea, behold, the
day of this life is the day for men to perform their la­
bors. And now as l said unto you before, as ye have
had so many witnesses,'therefore 1 beseech of you,
that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repent­
ance until the end; for after this day oflife, which is
given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not
improve our time while in tliis life, then comclh the
night of darhnesss, wherein there can bo no labor per­
formed. Ye cannot say, when ye are broilgirt to that
awful crisis, that I will repent, that I wiil return to
my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same
spilit which doth possess your bodies at the time that
ye go out of this life,1that same spirit .wiil have power
th possess your body in that eternal world. For be­
hold, if ye have procrastinated the day ofyour repent­
ance, even until death, behold, ye have become Bubtec-
ted to the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his;
3 40 BOOK OF ALMA.
therefore the spirit of the Lord hath withdrawn from
you, and hath no place in you, and the devil hath all
power over you; and this is the final state of the wick­
ed. And this I know, because the Lord hath said, he
dwelleth notin unholy temples, but in the hearts of
the righteous doth he dwell; yea, and he has also said,
that the righteous shall sit down in his kingdom, to go
no more out: but their garments should be made white,
through the blood of the Lamb.
And now my beloved brethren, 1 desire that ye
should remember these things, and that ye should
work out your salvation with fear before God, and that
ye should no more deny Lhe coming of Christ; that ye
contend no more against the Holy Ghost, but that ye
receive it, and take upon you the name of Christ;
that ye humble yourselves even to the dust, and wor­
ship God in whatsoever place ye may be in, in spirit
and in truth; and that ye live in thanksgiving daily,
for the many mercies and blessings which he doth be­
stow upon you; yea, and I also exhort you, my breth­
ren, that ye be watchful unto prayer continually, that
ye may not be led away by the temptation of the dev­
il, that he may not overpower you, that ye may not
become his subjects at the last day: for behold, he re-
wardeth you no good thing. And now my beloved
brethren, I would exhort you to have patience, and
that ye bear witli all manner of afflictions; that ye do
not revile against those who do cast you out because
of your exceeding poverty, lest ye become sinners like
unto them; but that ye have patience, and bear with
those afflictions, with a firm hope that ye shall one
day rest from all your afflictions.
Now it came to pass that after Amulek had made an
end of these words, they withdrew themselves from
the multitude, and came over into the land of Jerslion;
yea, and the rest of the brethren, after they had
preached the word unto the Zoramites, also came over
iuto the land of Jershon.
And it came to pass that after the more popular part
of the Zoramites had consulted together concerning
the words which had been preached unto them, they
were angry because of the word, for it-did destroy
their craft; therefore they would not hearken unto the
words. And they sent and gathered together through­
out all the;land, all the people, and consulted with
themconcerning the words which had been spoken-—
Now Ikeir rulerd and theirpriests, and. their teachers.
BOOK or AU1A. 341
did not lot tbe people know concerning their desire*:
therefore they found out privily the mind* of ail the
people.
And itcame to pas# that alter they had found out
the minds of all the people, those who were in favor
of the words which had been spoken by Alma and his
brethren, were cast out of the land; and they were
many; and they came over also into the land of Jer-
shon.
And it came to pass that Alma and his brethren did
minister unto them. Now the people of the Zoramites
were angry with the people of Ammon who were in
Jerslion, and the chief ruler of the Zoramites being a
very wicked man, sent over unto tiie people of Amnion
desiring them that they should cast out of their land
all those who came over from them into their land.—
And he breathed out many threatnings against them.
Andnow the people ofAmmon did not fear their words,
therefore they did not cast them out, but they did re­
ceive all the poor of the Zoramites that came over un­
to them; and they did nourish them, and did clothe
them, and did give unto them lands for their inherit­
ance; and they did administer unto them according to
their wants. Now this did stir up the Zoramites to
anger against the people of Ammon, and tiiey began
to mix will) the Lamanites, and to stir them up also to
anger against them; and thus the Zoramites und the
Lamanites began to make preparations for war against
the people of Ammon, and also against the Nephiles.
And thus ended the seventeenth year of the reign of
the judges, over the people of Nephi.
And the people of Ammon departed out of the land
ofJershon, and came over into the land ofAIelck, and
Cave place in the land of Jershon for the armies of the
Nephites, that they might contend with the armies of
the Lamanites, and the armies of the Zoramites; and
thus commenced a wur betwixt the Lamanites and the
Nephiles, in the eighteenth year of the reign of the
judges; and an account shall be given of their wars
hereafter. And Alma, and Ammon, and their breth­
ren, and also the two sons of Alma, returned to the
land of Zarahemla, after having been instruments in
the hands of God of bringing many of the Zoramites
to repentance; and as rnanv as wore brought to re­
pentance, were driven outoftheirland; but they have
lands for their inheritance in the land of Jershon, and
they have taken up arms to defend themselves, and
342 BOOK OF ALMA.
their wives, and children, and their lands. Now Al­
ma, being grieved for the iniquity of his people, yea
for the wars, and the bloodsheds, and the contentions
which were among them; and having been to declare
the word, or sent to declare the word, among all the
people in every city; and seeing that the hearts of the
people began to wax hard, and that they began to be
offended because of the strictness of the word, his heart
was exceeding sorrowful; therefore, he caused that his
sons should be gathered together, that he might give
unto them every one his charge, separately, concern­
ing the things pertaining unto righteousness. And
we have an account of his commandments, which he
gave unto them according to his own record.
CHAPTER XVII.
The commandments o f Alma, to kis son Hdaman.
My son, give ear to my words; for I swear unto
you, that inasmuch as .ye shall keep the command­
ments of God, ye shall prosper in the land. I would
that ye should do as I have done, in remembering the
captivity of our fathers; for they were in bondage,
and none could deliver them, except it was tiie God
of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God ofJa­
cob; and lie surely did deliver them in their afflictions.
And now, O my son Hdaman, behold, thou art in thy
youth, and therefore J beseech of thee that thou wilt
hear my words, and learn of me; lor I do know that
whosoever shall put their trust in God, shall be sup­
ported in their trials, and their troubles, and their af­
flictions, and shall be lifted up at the last day; anti I
would not that ye think that 1 know of>
myself, not
of the temporal, but of the spiritual; not of the carnal
mind, but of God. Now behold I say unto you, if 1
had noGbeen born of God, I should not have known
these things; but God has, by the mouth of his holy
angel, made tiiese things known unto me, not of any
worthiness of myself, for Ivwent about with the sons
of Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church of God; bat
behold, God sgnt.his holy:angel to stop us by the way.
And behold, he spakeuntous,as it wefe tire voice of
BOOK OF AtSIA. 343
thunder, and the whole earth did tremble beneath our
feet, and we all fell to the earth, for the fear of the
Lord came upon us. But behold, the voice said unto
me, arise. And 1 arose and stood up, and beheld the
angel. And he said unto me, if tiiou wilt of thyself
be destroyed, seek no more to destroy the church of
God.
And it came ro pass that I fell to the earth: and it
was for the space of three days and three nights, that
I could not open my mouth; neither had I the use of
my limbs. And the angel spake mure tilings unto
me, which were heard by my brethren, but 1did not
hear them; for when I heard the words, if thou wilt
be destroyed of thyself, seek no more to destroy the
church of God^i was struck with such great tear and
amazement, lest perhaps t should be destroyed, that I
fell to the earth, and 1 did hear no more; but I was
racked with eternal torment, for my soul was harrow­
ed up to the greatest degree, and racked with all my
sins. Yea, I did remember all my sins and iniquities,
forwhich I was tormented with the pains of hell; yea, I
sawthat i had rebelled against my God, and that 1had
not kept his holy commandments; yea, and I had mur­
dered many of his children, or rather led them away
unto destruction; yea, and in line, so great had been
ray iniquities, that the very thoughts of coming into
the presence of my God, did rack my soul with inex­
pressible horror, O, thought I, that I could be ban­
ished and become extinct both sou! and body, that I
might not be brought to stand in the presence of my
God, to be judged of my deeds. And now, for three
days and for three nights was I racked, even lvilh the
pains of a damned soul.
And it came to pass that as 1 was thus racked with
torment, while I was harrowed up by the memory of
my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have
heard my father prophesy unto the people, concerning
the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to
atone for the sins of the world. Now as my mind
caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my
heart, O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me,
who art in the gall of bitterness, and art encircled
about by the everlasting chains of death. And now
behold, when I thought this, I could remember my
pains no more; yea, I was harrowed up by the mem­
ory ofmy sins no more. And O, what joy, and what
marvelous light I did behold; yea, my soul was filled.
344 BOOK OF ALHA.
witli joy as exceeding as was my pain; yea, I say un­
to you, my son, that there could be nothing so exquis­
ite and so bitter, as was my pains. Yea, and again I
say unto you, my son, that on the other hand, there
can be nothing so exquisite and sweet as was my joy;
yea, me thought I saw even as our father Lehi saw,
God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with number­
less concourses of angels, in the attitude of singing
and praising their God; yea, and my soul did long to
be there. But behold, my limbs did receive their
strength again, and 1 stood upon my feel, and did
manifest unto the people that I had been born of God;
yea, and from that time, even until now, I have labor­
ed without ceasing, that I might bring souls unto re­
pentance; that I might bring them to taste of the ex­
ceeding joy of which 1did taste; that they might also
be bom of God, and be filled with the Holy Ghost
Yea, and now behold, O my son, the Lord doth give
me exceeding great joy in the fruit of my labors; for
because of the word which he has imparted unto me,
behold, many have been born of God, and have lasted
as I have tasted, and have seen eye to eye, as I have
seen; therefore they do know of these things of which-
I have spoken, as I do know; and the knowledge
which I have is of God. And I have been supported
under trials and troubles of every kind, yea, and in ali
manner of afflictions; yea, God has delivered me from
prison, and from bonds, and from death; yea, and I
do put my trust in him, and he will still deliver me;
and I know that he will raise me up at the last day,
to dwell with him in glory; yea, and I will praise him
forever, for he has brought our fathers out of Egypt,
and he lias swallowed up the Eyptians in ttie red sea;
and he led them by his power into the promised land:
yea, and lie has delivered them out of bondage and
captivity, from time to time; yea, and he has also
brought our fathers out of the land of Jerusalem; and
he has also, by his everlasting power, delivered them
out of bondage and captivity, from time to time, even
down to the present day; and I have always retained
in remembrance their captivity; yea, and ye also
ought to retain in remembrance, as I have done, their
captivity. But behold, my son, this is not all: for ye
ought to know, as I do know, that inasmuch as J®
shall keep the commandments of God, ye shall pros­
per in the land; >and ye ought to know also, that inas­
much as ye will not.keep ttie commandments of God,
A
BOOK OF J .U U . 345
ye shall bo cut off from his presence. Now tills is ac­
cording to his word.
And now my son Helaman, I command you that ye
take the records which have been entrusted wiiii me;
and 1also command you that ye keep a record of this
people, according as I have done, upon the plates of
Nephi, and keep all these things sacred which I have
kept, even as 1 have kept them: for it is for a wise
purpose that they are kept; and these plates of brass
which contain these engravings, which have the re­
cords of the holy scriptures upon them, which have
the genealogy o! our ioretatiiers, even Iron) the begin-
nig. And behold, it has been prophesied by our la­
thers, that they should be kept and handed down from
one generation to another, and be kept and preserved
by the hand of the Lord, until they should go forth
unto every nation, kindred, tongue and people, that
they shall know of the mysteries contained thereon.
And now behold, if they are kept, they must retain
their brightness; yea, and they will retain their bright­
ness; yea, and also shall all the plates which do con­
tain that which is holy writ. Now yo may suppose that
thisisfoolishness in me; but behold 1say unto you, that
by small and simple things, are great things brought to
pass; and small means in many instances, doth con­
found the wise. And the Lord God doth work by
means to bring about his great and eternal purposes;
and by very small means the Lord doth confound the
wise, and bringeth about the salvation of many souls.
And now, it lias hitherto been wisdom in God, that
these things should be preserved; for behold, they
have enlarged the memory of this people, yea, and
convinced many of the error of their wuys, and
brought them to the knowledge of their God, unto
the salvation of their souls. Yea, 1 say unto you,
were it not for these things that these records do con­
tain, which are or. these plates, Ammon and his breth­
ren could not have convinced so many thousands of
the Lamanites, of the incorrect tradition of their fa­
thers; yea, these records and their words, brought
them unto repentance; that is, they brought them to
the knowledge of the Lord their God, and to rejoice
in Jesus Christ, their redeemer. And who knoweth
but what they will be the means of bringing many
thousands of them, yea, and also many thousands of
our stiffnecked brethren, the Nephiles, who are .now
hardening their hearts in sin and iniquities, to the
3 4 6 BOOK OF ALMA.
knowledge of their Redeemer? Now these mysteries
are not yet fully made known unto me; therefore I
shall forbear. And it may suffice, if I only say, they
are preserved for a wise purpose, which purpose is
known unto God: for he doth counsel in wisdom over
all his works, and his paths are straight, and his
couise is one eternal round. O remember, remember,
my son Helaman, how strict are the commandments
of God. And lie said, if ye will keep my command­
ments, ye shall prosper in the land; hut if ye keep
not his commandments, ye shall be cut. oft' from his
presence. And now remember, my son, that God
has entrusted you with these things, which are sacred,
which he has kept sacred, and also which he will
keep and preserve for a wise purpose in him, that he
may shew forth his power unto future generations.
And now behold, I tell you by the spirit of prophe­
cy, that if ye transgress the commandments of God,
behold, these things which are sacred, shall he taken
away from you by the power of God, and ye shall be
delivered up unto satun, that he may sift you as chaff
before the wind; but if ye keep the commandments of
God, and do with these things which are sacred, ac­
cording to that which the Lord doth command you,
(for you must appeal unto the Lord for all tilings what­
soever 3
re must do with them,) behold, no power of
earth or hell can take them from you, for God is power­
ful to the fulfilling of all his words; lor he will fulfil all
his promises which he shall make unto you, for he has
fulfilled his promises which he has made unto our fa­
thers. For he promised unto them that he would re­
serve these things for a wise purpose in him, that he
might shew forth his power unto future gneralions.
Ami how behold, one purpose hath he fulfilled, even
to the restoration of many thousands of the Lamanites
to the knowledge of the truth; and he hath shewn
forth his power in them, and he wit! also still shew
forth his power in them, unto future generations;
therefore they shall be preserved; therefore J com­
mand you, my son Helaman, that ye be diligent in
fulfilling all iny words, and that ye be diligent in keep­
ing the commandments of God, as they are written.
And now, I will speak unto you concerning those
twenty-four plates, that ye keep them, that the mys­
teries and the works of darkness, and their secret
works, or the secret works of those people, who have
been destroyed,:may foemade manifest unto tthis pea-
BOOK OF ALMA. 347
pie; 70
a. all their murders, and robbings, and their
plunderings, and all. their wickedness, and abomina­
tions, may be made manifest unto this people; yea,
and that ye preserve these directors. For behold, the
Lord saw that his people began to work in darkness,
yea, work secret murders ami abominations; therefore
the Lord said, if they did not repent, they should be
destroyed from oil’ Hie iuec of the earth. And the
Lord said, I will prepare unto my servant Gazelem, a
stone, which shall shine forth in darkness unto light,
that I may discover unto my people wi.o serve me,
that I may discover unto them the works of their
brethren; yea, lhe:r secret works, their works of dark­
ness, and their wickedness and abominations. And
now my son, these directors were prepared, that the
word of God-might be fulfilled, which he spake, say­
ing; I will bring fortli out of darkness unto light, all
their secret works and their abominations; and except
they repent, I will destroy them from off the face of
the earth; and I will bring to light all their secrets
and abominations, unto every nation that shall liere^
after possess the land. And now my son, we see that
they did not repent; therefore they have been destroy­
ed, and thus far the word of God has been fulfilled;
yea, their secret abominations have been brought out
ofdarkness, and made known unto us.
And now my son, I command you lhat ye retain all
tiieir oaths, and their covenants, and their agreements
in their secret abominations; yea, and all their signs
and their wonders ye shall retain from this people,
that they know them not, lest peradventurc they
should fall into darkness also, and be destroyed. For
behold, there is a curse upon ail this land, that des­
truction shall come upon all those workers of dark­
ness, according to the power of God, when they are
fully rape; therefore I desire-that this people might
not he destroyed. Therefore ye slia!I keep these se­
cret plans of their oaths and their covenants from this
people, and only their wickedness, and their murders,
and Iheir abominations, shall ye make known unto
them: and ye shall'teach them to abhor such wicked­
ness, and abominations, and murders; and ve shall al­
so teach them, lhat these people were destroyed on
account of their wickedness, and abominations, .and
their murders: Fortbehold, they murdered all the
prophets of the Lord who came among them to de­
clare unto them' concerning their iniquities;"and the
348 BOOK OF ALMA.
blood of those whom they murdered, did cry unto the
Lord their God, for vengeance upon those who were
their murderers: and thus the judgments of God did
come upon these workers of darkness and secret com­
binations; yea, ami cursed be the land forever and ev­
er unto those workers of darkness and secret combin­
ations, even unto destruction, except they repent be­
fore they are fully ripe.
And now my son, remember the words which I have
spoken unto you: trust not those secret plans unto
this people, but teach them an everlasting hatred
against sin and iniquity; preach unto them repent­
ance, and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them
to humble thems'elves, and to be meek and lowly in
heart; teach them to withstand every temptation of
the devil, with their faith on the Lord Jesus Christ;
teach them to never be weary of good works, but to
be meek and lowly in heart: for such shall find rest to
their souls. O remember my son, and learn wisdom
in thy youth; yea, learn in thy youth to keep the
commandments of God; yea, and cry unto God foralt
thy support; yea, let all thy doings be unto the Lord,
and whithersoever thou goest, let it be in the Lord:
yea, let thy thoughts be directed unto the Lord; yea.
lot the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord
forever; counsel the Lord in all thy doings, and lie
will direct thee for good; yea, when thou liest down
at night, lie down unto the Lord, that he may watch
over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the
morning, let thy heart be full of thanks unto God:
and if ye do these tilings, ye shall be lifted up at the
last day. And now my son, 1 have somewhat to say
concerning the thing which our fathers call a ball, or
director; or our fathers called it liahona, which is, be­
ing interpreted, a compass; and the Lord prepared it.
And behold, there cannot any man work after the
manner of so curious a workmanship. And behold, it
was prepared to shew unto our fathers the course
which they should travel in the wilderness: and it did
work for them according to their faith in God; there­
fore if they had faith to believe that God could cause
that those spindles should point the way they should
go, behold, it was done; therefore they had this mir­
acle, and also many other miracles wrought by tbs
power of God, day by day; nevertheless, because
those miracles were worked by small means, it did
•hew unto them marvelous works. They were sloth*
BOOK OF ALMA. 349
fill, and forgot to exercise their faith and diligence,
and then those marvelous works ceased, and they did
not progress in their journey; therefore they tarried
in the wilderness, or did not travel a direct course,
and were afflicted with hunger and thirst, because of
their transgressions.
And now my son, I would that ye should under­
stand that these things are not without a shadow; for
as our fathers were slothful to give heed to this com­
pass, (now these things were temporal,) they did not
prosper; even so it is with things which are spiritual.
For behold, it is as easy to give heed to the word of
Christ, which will point to you a straight course to
eternal bliss, as it was for our fathers to give heed to
this compass, which would point unto them a straight
course to the promised land. And now 1 say, is there
not a type in this thing? For just as suredly as this
director did bring our fathers, by following its course,
to the promised land, shall the words of Christ, if we
follow their course, carry us beyond this vale of sor­
row, into a jar better land of promise.
0 my son, do not let us lie slothful because of the
easiness of the way; for so was it with our fathers;
for so was it prepared for them, that if they would
look, they might live; even so it is with us. The way
is prepared, and if we will look, we rnay live forever.
And now my son, see that ye take care of these sacred
things; yea, see that ye look to God and live. Go
unto this people, and declare the word, and be sober.
My son, farewell.
CHAPTER XVIII. . |
The commandments of Alma, to his soi Skihlon.
My son, give ear to my words; for I say unto yon,
even os I said unto Helaman, that inasnuch as ye
shall keep the commandments of God, ye shall pros­
per in the land; and inasmuch as ye will'novkeep the
commandments of God, ye shall be cast off from his
presence. And now my son, I trust that I stall J
great joy in you, because of your steadiness a*d
faithfulness unto God; for as you have cotnmeicodpn
Jf
iJOOK OF XLMA.
your youth, to look to the Lord your God, even so I
hope that you will continue in keeping his command­
ments: for blessed is ha that endureth to the end. X
say unto you my son, that I'have had great joy in thee
already, because ofthy faithfulness, and thy diligence,
and thy patience, and thy long suffering among the
people of the Zoramites. For 1 knew that thou wast
in bonds; yea, and I also knew that thou-wast stoned
for the word’s sake; and thou didst bear ail these
things with patience, because the Lord was with thee:
and now thou knowest that the Lord did deliver thee.
And now my son Shibioi, I would that ye should
remember that as much as ye shall put your trust in
God, even so much ye sfrail be delivered out of
your trials, and vour troubles, and your afflictions; and
ye shall be lifted up at the last day. Now my son, I
would not that ye should think that I know these
things of myself, but it is the spirit of God which is in
me, which makcth these things known unto me: for if
I had not been born of God, 1 should not have known
these tilings. But behold, the Lord in his great mercy
sent his arigei to declare unto me, that I must stop the
work of destruction among his people; yea, and 1have
seen au angel face to face; and lie spake with m:, arid
his voice was as thunder, and it shook the whole earth.
And it came to pass that 1was three days am! three
nights in the most bitter pain and anguish of soul; and
never, until I did cry out unto the Lord Jesus Christ
for mercy, did I receive a remission of my sins. But
behold, I did cry unto hi;n, and 1did find peace to my
soul. And now my son, I have told you this, that ye
may learn wisdom, that ye may learn of me Hint there
is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved,
only in and through Christ. Behold, lie is the life am!
the light of the world. Behold, lieis the word of truth
and righteousness. And now, as ye have begun to
teach the word, even so I would that ye should con­
tinue to teach; and 1would that ye would be diligent
and temperate in all things. See that ye are not lifted
up unto prMe: yea, see that ye do not boast in your
own wisdom, nor of your much strength; usa boldness,
but not oi^rbearance; and also see that ye bridle all
your passion's, that ye may be filled with lo.ve; see
that ye rsftain from idleness; do not pray as the Zoram-
ttes do,not ye have seen- that they pray to be heard
of’men/and to*be praised for their wisdom. Do.not
say^ OGod, I thank,thee that we ar&:better than dor
BOOK o r ALXA. 351
brethren; but rather say, O Lord, forgive my umvor-
thiness, and remember my brethren in mercy; yea,
acknowledge yoar unworthiness before God at all
times. And may the Lord bless your soul, and receive
you at the last day into his kingdom, to sit down in
peace. Now go, my son, and teach the word unto this
people. Be sober. My son, farewell.
CHAPTER XIX.
’
[he Commandments oj Alma, to It is son Corianton.
Asn now my son, 1 have somewhat more to say unto
thee than what 1said unto thy brother: for behold, have
ye not observed the steadiness of thy brother, hia faith­
fulness, and his diligence in keeping the command­
ments of God? Behold, has he not set a good exam­
ple for thee? For thou didst not give so much heed
unto my words as did thy brother, among the people
of the Zoramites. Now this is what I have against
thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in Uiy strength,
and thy wisdom. And this is not all, myson. Thou
didst do that which was grievous unto me; for thou
didst forsake the ministry, and did go over into the
land of Siron, among the borders of the Lamanites,
after the harlot Isabel; yea., she did steal away the
hearts of many; but this was no excuse for thee, my
son. Thou shouldst have tended to the ministry,
wlierewith thou wast entrusted. Know ye not, my son,
that these things arc an abomination in the sight of the
Lord; yea, most abominable above all sins, save it be
the shedding of innocent bloood, or denying the Holy
Ghost? for behold, if ye deny the Holy Ghost when
it once has had place in you, and ye know that ye de­
ny it; behold, this is a sin which is unpardonable; yea,
and whosoever murdereth against the light and know­
ledge of God, it is not easy for him to obtain forgive­
ness; yea, I say unto you, my son, that it is not easy
for him to obtain a.forgivems. And now,my son, I
would to God that ye bad not been guilty of so great a
crime..11 would not dwell upon your crimes, to harrow
up your soul, if it were notfor your good. Butbehold,
ye cannot hide your crimes from’God; and exceptyeie-
352 BOOK OP ALMA.
pent, they will stand as a testimony against you at the
last day. Now my son,I would thatyeshould repent,and
forsake your sins, and go no more after the lusts ofyour
eyes, hut cross yourselfin all these things; forexceptye
do this, ye can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God.
O remember, and lake it upon you, and cross yourself
in these things. And I command you to take it upon
you to counsel your elder brothers in your undertak­
ings; for behold, thou ait in thy youth, and ye stand in
need to be nourished by your brothers. And give heed
to their counsel; sufler not yourself to be led away by
any vain or foolish thing; suffer not that the devil lead
away your heart again, after those wicked harlots. Be­
hold,O my son, how great iniquity ye brought upon the
Zoraraites: for when they saw your conduct, they
would not believe in my words. And now the spirit of
the Lord doth say unto ine, command thy children to
do good, lest they lead away the hearts of many people
to destruction; therefore I command you,my son,in the
fear of God,that ye refrain from your iniquities; that ye
turn to the Lord with all your mind,might and strength;
that ye lead away the hearts ofno more, to do wickedly;
but rather return unto them, and acknowledge your
faults, and retain that wrong which ye have done; seek
not after riches, nor the vain tilings of this world; for
behold, you cannot carry them with you.
And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you
concerning the coming of Christ. Behold, I say unto
you, that it is he that surely shall come, to take away
the sins of the world; yea, he come1
1
1to declare glad
tidings of salvation unto his people. And now my
son, this was the ministry unto which ye were called,
to declare these glad tidings unto this people,to prepare
their minds; or rather that salvation might come unto
them, that they may prepare the minds of their chil­
dren to hear the word at the time of his coming. And
now I will ease your mind somewhat on this subject.
Behold, you marvel why these things should be known
so long, beforehand. Behold, I say unto you, is not a
soul at this time as precious unto God, as a soul will
be at the time of his coming’ Is it not as necessary
that the plan of redemption should be made known un­
to this people, as well as unto their children? Is it not
as easy at this time, for the Lord to send his angel to
declare these glad tidings unto us, as unto our children;
of as after the time of his coming? Now my son, hew
is somewhat more •I would say unto thee; for I per*
.4 «-
BOOK OF ilM M ,
ceive that thy mind is worried- concerning the resur-;
rection of the dead. Behold, I say unto you, that
there is no resurrection; or I would say, in other
words, that this mortal does not put on immorality;
this corruption does not put on incorruption, until af­
ter the coming of Christ. Behold, he bringeth to pass
the resurrection of the dead. But behold, my son, the
resurrection is not yet. Now I unfold unto you a
mystery; nevertheless, there are many mysteries,
•which are kept, that no one knoweth them, save God
himself. But 1 shew unto you one thing, which I
have inquired diligently of Cod, that I might know;
that is, concerning the resurrection. Behold, there is
a time appointed that all shall come forth from the
dead. Now when this time cometh, no one knows;
but God knoweth the time which is appointed. Now
whether there shall be one time, or a second time, or
a third time, that men shall come forth from the dead,
it mattereth not; for God knoweth all these thiDgs;
and it sufficeth me to know that this is the case; that
there is a time appointed that all shall rise from the
dead. Now there must needs be a space betwixt the
time of death, and the time of the resurrection. And
now 1 would inquire what becometh of the souls of
men, from this time of death, to the time appointed
for the resurrection? Now whether there ismore than
one time appointed for. men to rise, it mattereth not;
for all do not die at once: and fhis mattereth not; all
i*ns one day, with God; and time only is measured
unto men; therefore there is a time appointed unto
men, that they shall rise from the dead; and there
is a spuee between the time of death and the resur­
rection. And now concerning this space of time.
What becometh of the souls of men, is the thing
which I have inquired diligently of the Lord to
know; and this is the thing of which I do know.
And when the time cometh when all shall rise, then
shall they know that God knoweth all the times which
are appointed unto' man. Now concerning the state
of the soul between death and the resurrection. Be­
hold, it has been made known unto me, by an angel,
that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are depart­
ed from this mortal body; yea, the spirits of airmen,
whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that
God who gave them life- And then shall it come to
pass the spirits of those who are righteous, are received
o2
38$
j ..
354 BOOK OF ALMA.
/
into a state of happiness, which is called paradise; a.
state of rest; a state of peace, where they shall rest
from albtheir troubles, and from all care, and sorrow,
&c. And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits
of the wicked, yea, who are evil; for behold, they have
no part nor portion of the spirit of the Lord; for be­
hold, they choose evil works, rather than good; there­
fore the spirit of the devil did enter into them, and
take possession of their house; and these shall be cast
out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping, and
wailing, and gnashing of teeth; and this because of
their own iniquity; being led captive by the will of
the devil. Now this is the state of the souls of the
wicked; yea, in darkness, and a state of awful, fearful,
looking for of the fiery indignation of the wrath of
God upon them; thus they remain in 'this state, as
well as the righteous in paradise, until the time of their
resurrection. .Now there are some that have under­
stood that this state of happiness, and this state of
misery of the soul, before the resurrection, was a first
resurrection. Yea, 1 admit it may be termed a resur­
rection; the raising of the spirit or the soul, and their
consignation to happiness or misery, according to the
words which have been spoken. And behold, again
it hath been spoken, that there is a first resurrection;
a resurrection of all those who have been, or who are,
or who shall bs, down to the resurrection of Christ
from the dead. Now we do not suppose that this first
resurrection which is spoken of in this manner, can be
the resurrection of the souls, and their consignation to
happiness or misery. Ye cannot suppose that this is
what it meaneth. Behold, 1 say unto you nay; but it
meaneth the re-uniting of the soul with the body of
those from the days of Adam, down to the resurrection
of Christ. Now whether the souls and the bodies of
those of whom have been spoken, shall all be re-united
at once, the wicked as well as the righteous, I do not
say: let it suffice, that I say that they all come forth;
or in other words; their resurrection cometh to pass
before the resurrection of those who die after the re­
surrection of Christ. Now my son, I do not say that
their resurrection cometh at the resurrection of Christ;
but behold, I give it as my opinion, that tire souls and
the bodies are re-united, ofthe righteous, attire resur­
rection- of Christ, and' his assension into heaven.
But whether it be at his resurrection, or after, I do not
say; but this much I say, that there is a space between
BOOK OF ALMA. 355
death and the resurrection of the body, and a state of
the soul in*'happiness or in misery, until the time
which is appointed of God that the dead shall come
forth, and be re-united, both soul and body, and be
brought to stand before God, and be judged according
to their works; yea, this briugeth about the restoration
of those things of which have been spoken by the
mouths of the prophets. The soul shall be restored to
the body, and the body to the soul; yea, and every
limb and joint shall be restored to its body; yea, even
a hair of the head shall not be lost, but all things shall
be restored to their proper and perfect frame. And
now my son, this is the restoration of whisk has been
spoken by the mouths of the prophets: And then
shall the righteous shine forth in the kingdom of God.
But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked;
for they die as to things pertaining to things of right­
eousness; for they are unclean, and no unclean thing
can inherit the kingdom of God; but they are cast out,
and consigned to partake of the fruits of their labors
or their works, which have been evil; and they drink
the dregs of a bitter cup.
And now my son, I have somewhat to say concern­
ing the restoration of which has been spoken; for be­
hold, some have wrested the scriptures, and have gone
far astray, because of this thing. And I perceive that
thy mind has been worried also, concerning this thing.
But behold, I will explain it unto thee. I say unto
thee, my son, that the plan of restoration is requisite
with the justice of God; for it is requisite that all
things should be restored to their proper order. Be­
hold, it is requisite and just, according to the power
and resurrection of Christ, that the soul of man should
be restored to its body, and that every part of the body
should be restored to itself. And it is requisite with
the justice of God, that .men should be judged accord­
ing to their works; and if their works were good in
this life, and the desires of their hearts were good, that
they should also, at the last day, be restored unto that
winch is good; and if their works are evil, they shall
be restored unto him for evil; therefore, all things
shall be restored Jo their proper order; every thing to
its natural frame; mortality raised to immorality; cor­
ruption to'incorruption; raised to endless happiness,
to inherit -the kingdom of God, or to endless misery,
to inherit the <
kingdom of the devil; the one on one
hand, the other on the other; the one raised to happi-
356 BO O K 'or ALMA.
nes*. according to hi* desire# of happiness; or good,
according to his desire# ofgood: and the other to evil,
according to hi* desire* of evil; for os he ho* desired
to do evil all the day long, even eo shaft he have hi*
reward of evil, when the night cometh. And so it is
on the other hand. If he hath repented of his sins,
and desired righteousness until the end of his days,
even so he shall be rewarded unto righteousness.
These are they that are redeemed of the Lord: yea,
these are they that are taken out, that are delivered
from that endless night of darkness; and thus they
stand or fall; for behold, they are tiieir own judges,
whether to do good or do evil. Now the decrees of
God are unalterable; therefore the way is prepared,
that whosoever will, may walk therein and be saved.
And now behold, my son, do not risk one more offence
against your God upon those points of doctrine, which
ye have hitherto risked to commit sin. Do not sup­
pose, because it has been spoken concerning restora­
tion, that ye shall be restored from sin to happiness.
Behold I say unto you, wickedness never was happi­
ness. And now, my son, all men that are.in a state
of nature, or I would say, in a carnal stale, are in the
gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity; they
are without God in the world, and they have gone
contrary to the nature of God; therefore they are in a
state contrary to the nature of happiness. And now
behold, is the meaning of the word restoration, to lake
a thing of a natural state, and place it in an unnatural
state, or to place it in a state opposite to its nature?
O, my son, this it not the case; but the meaning of
the word restoration, is lo bring back again evil for
evil, or carnal for carnal, or devilish for devilish; good
for that which is good; righteous for that which is
righteous; just for that which isjust; merciful for that
which is merciful; therefore, my son, see that ye are
merciful unto yoor brethren; deal justly, judge right­
eously, and do good continually; and if ye do all these
things, then shall ye receive your reward;-yea, ye
shall have mercy restored unto you again; ye shall
have justice restored unto you again; ye shall have a
righteous judgment restored unto you again; and ye
shall have good rewarded unto /you again; for that
which ye do send out,,shall return unto you again, and
be restored: therefore the-word restoration, morefuJly
eondemneth tbe sinner, and justifietb him not at sdh^
Aod now, my son, I perceivesthere is somewhat
BOOK^OF^ALMA. 357
more which doth- worry your mind, which ye cannot
understand,*which is concerning the j ustice of God, in
the punishment of the sinner: for ye do try to suppose
that it is injustice that the sinner should be consigned
to a state of misery. Now behold, my son, I will ex­
plain this thing unto thee; for behold, after the Lord
God sent our first parents forth from the garden of
Eden to till the ground, from whence they were taken;
yea, lie drew out the man, and he placed at the east
end of the garden of Eden, Cherubim, and a flaming
sword which turned every way, to keep the tree of life.
Now we see that the man had became as God, know­
ing good and evil: and lest he should put forth his
hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and
live forever, the Lord God placed Cherubim and the
flaming sword, that he should not partake of the fruit;
and thus we see, that there was a time granted unto
man, to repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to re­
pent and serve God. For behold, if Adam had put
forth bis hand immediately, and partook of the tree of
life, he would have lived forever, according to the
word of God, having no space for repentance; yea,
and also the word of God would have been void, and
the great plan of salvation, would have been frustrated.
But behold, it was appointed unto man to dife; there­
fore as they were cut off from the tree of life, they
should be cut off from the face of the earth: and man
became lost forever; yea, they became fallen man.
And now we see by this, that our,first parents were
cut off, both temporally and spiritually, from the pres*
ence of the Lord; and thus we see they became sub­
jects to follow after their own will. Now behold, it
was not expedient that man should be reclaimed from
this temporal death, for that would destroy the great
plan of happiness; therefore, as the soul could never
die, and the fall had brought upon all mankid a spirit­
ual death as well as a temporal; that is, they were cut
off from the presence of the Lord; it was expedient v
that mankind should be reclaimed from this spiritual
death; therefore as they had become carnal, sensual
and devilish, bynature, this probationary state became
a state for them to prepare: it became a preparatory
state. And now remember, my son, if it were not for
the plan of redemption, (laying it aside,) as. soon as
they were dead, their souls were miserable, being cut
off from the prdseneeof the Lord. rAn.dnow there was
no means to.reclaim men Atom this fallen state which
358 BOOK.OF ALMA.
man had brought upon himself, because of his own
disobedience; therefore, according to justice, the plan
of redemption could not be brought about, only, on
conditions of repentance of men in this probationary
state; yea, this preparatory stale; for except it were
for these conditions, mercy could not take effect ex­
cept it should destroy the work of justice. Now the
work of justice could not be destroyed: if so, God
would cease to be God. * And thus we sec that all
mankind were fallen, and they were in the grasp of
justice; yea, the justice of God, which consigned them
forever to be cut off from his presence. And now the
plan of mercy could not be brought about, except an
atonement should be made; therefore God himselfaton-
eth for the sins of the world, tot bring about the plan
of mercy, to appease the demands ofjustice, that God
might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also.
Now repentance could not come unto men, except
there were a punishment, which also was as eternal as
the life of tire soul should be, affixed opposite to the
plan of happiness, which was as eternal also as thelife
of the soul. Now, how could a man repent, except
he should sin?j How could he sin, if there was no law,
how could there be' a law, save there was a punish­
ment? Now' there was a punishment affixed, and a
just law given, which brought remorse of conscience
unto man. Now if there was no law given, if a man
murdered he should die, would lie be afraid he should
die if he should murder? And also, if there was no
law given against sin, men would not be afraid to
sin. And if there was no law given if men sin­
ned, what could justice do, or mercy either: for
they would have no claim upon the creature. But
there is a law' given, and a punishment^ affixed,
and repentance granted; which repentance', mercy
claimeth; otherwise, justice claimeth the creature,
and executeth the law, and the law inflicteth the
* punishment; if not so, the works of justice would be
destroyed, and God would cease to be God. But God
ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the peni­
tent, and mercy cometh because of the atonement; and
the atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the
dead; and the resurrection of the dead bringeth back
men into the presence of God; and (thus they are re­
stored into his presence; to be judged according to
their works; according to the law and justice; for be-
hold,jufltice exercisetfi all hisdemands, and also mer-
0 t
BOOK >.OF - AHLA. 859
cy claimelhall which isherow n;and thus, none but
the truly penitent are saved. What, do ye suppose
that mercy can robjustice? I sayuntoyou, nay; not
one whit. If so, God would cease to bo God. And
thus God bringeth about his great and eternal purpo­
ses, which were prepared from the foundation of the
world. And thus cometh about the salvation and the
redemption of men, and also their destruction and
misery; therefore, O my son, whosoever will come,
may come, and partake of the waters of life freely;
and whosoever will not come, the same is not compell­
ed to come; but in the last day, it shall be restored
unto him, according to his deeds. If he has desired to
do evil, and has not repented in his days, behold, evil
shall be done Unto him, according to the restoration of
God, And now my son, I desire that ye should let
these things trouble you no more, and only let your
sins trouble you, with that trouble which shall bring
you down unto repentance. O my son, I desire that
ye should deny the justice of God no more. Do not
endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point, because
ofyour sins, by denying the justice of God, but do you
let the justice of God, and his mercy, and his long
suffering, have full sway in your heart; but let it bring
you down to the dust in humility. And now, O ray
son, ye are called of God to preach the word unto tills
people. And now, my son, go thy way, declare the
word with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bring
souls unto repentance, that the great plan of mercy
may have claim upon them. And may God grant unto
you even according to my words. Amen,
CHAPTER XX.
And now it came to pass, that the sons of Alma did
go forth among the people, to declare the word unto
them. ' And Alma also, himself, could not rest, and he
also went forth. Now we shall say no more concern­
ing their preaching, except that they preached the
word, and the,truth, according to the spirit of prophe­
cy and revelation; and they preached after the holy
order of God, by which they were called. ,,
And.now I return to an accountof the wars between
360 BbOJT OFA.LMA.
the Nephites and theLamanites, in the (eighteenth
year of the reign of the judges.1
" For behold,' it came
to pass that the Zoramites became Lamanites; there­
fore in the commencement of the eighteenth year, the
people of the Nephites saw that the Lamanites were
coming upon them; therefore they made preparations
for war; yea, tiiey gathered together their armies in
tiie land of Jershon, And it came to pass that the La-
manites came with their thousands; and they came
into the land of Antionum, which was the land of the
Zoramites; and a man by the name of Zerahemnah
was their leader. And now as the Amalekites were of
a more wicked and a murderous disposition than the
Lamanites were, in and of themselves, therefore Zera-
liemnah appointed chief captains ovei the Lamanites,
and they were all the Amalekites and the Zoramites.
Now this he did, that he might preserve their hatred
towards the Nephites; that he might bring them into
subjection, to the accomplishment of his designs; for
behold, his designs were to stir up the Lamanites to
anger against the Nephites: this he did that he might
usurp great power over them; and also that he might
gain power over the Nephites, by bringing them into
bondage, &e. And now the design of the Nephites
was to support their lands, and their houses, and their
wives, and their children, that ■
they might preserve
them from the hands of their enemies, and ajso, that
they might preserve their rights and their privileges;
yea, and also their liberty, that they might worship
God according to their desires^ for they knew that
if they should fall into the hands of the Lamanites, that
whosoever should worship God, in spirit and in truth,
the true and the living God, the Lamanites would de­
stroy; yea, and they also knew the extreme haired of
the Lamanites towards their brethren, who were the
people of Anli-Nephi-Lehi; who were called the peo­
ple ofAmmon; and thejf would not take up arms; yea,
they had entered into a covenant, and they would not
break it; therefore, if they should foil into the hands
of the Lamanites, they would he destroyed. And the
Nephites would not suffer that they should be destroy­
ed; therefore they gave them lands for their inherit­
ance. And the people of Ammon did give unto the
Nephites a large portion of their substance, :to support
their armies; and thus the Nephites were compelled,
alone, to withstand against the Lamanites, who were
a compound of Laman and Lemuel,*;and the sons of
BOOK OF ALMA. 3 6 1
Ishmael, and all those who had dissented from the
Nephites, who were Amalekites, and Zoramites, and
the descendants of the priests of Noah. Now those
descendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the
Nephites; and thus the Nephites were obliged to con­
tend with Iheir brethren, even unto bloodshed.
And it came to pass, as the armies of the Lamanites
had gathered together in the land of Antionuiu, be-
> hold, the armies of the Nephites were prepared to
meet them in the land of Jershon. Now the leader of
the Nephites, or the man who had been appointed to
be the chief captain over the Nephites: Now the chief
captain took the command of all the armies of the Ne­
phites; and his name was Moroni; and Moroni took
all the command, and the governments of their wars.
| And he %
vas only twenty and five years old when he
was appointed chief captain over the armies of the Ne­
phites.
And it came to pass that he met the Lamanites in
the borders of Jershon, and his people were armed
with swords, and with cimeters, and all manner of
weapons of war. And when the armies of the La-
manites saw that the people of Nephi, or that Moroni
had prepared his people with breast-plates, and with
arm-shields: yea, and also shields to defend their
heads; and also they were dressed with thick cloth­
ing. Now the army of Zerahemnak was not prepared
with any such thing. They had only their swords,
and their cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their
stones and their slings; but they were naked, save it
were a skin which was girded) about their loins; yea,
all were naked, save it were the Zoramites and the
Amalekites. But they were not armed with breast­
plates, nor shields; therefore they were exceeding
fraid of the armies of the Nephites, because of their
armour, notwithstanding their number being so much
greater than the Nephites.
Behold, nowi it came to pass, that they durst not
come against the Nephites in the borders of Jershon;
therefore they departed out of the land of Antionum,
into the wilderness, and took their journey round
about in the wilderness, away by the head of the river
Sidon, that they might come into the land of Mantis
andtake possession ofthe land; for they did not suppose
that the armies of Moroni would know whither they
had,gone.; -But. it came to pass, as soon as they had
,1 X£#
J
362 •
’ BOOK OF ALMA.
departed into the wilderness," Moroni sent spies into
the wilderness, to watch their camp; and Moroni, al­
so, knowing of the prophecies of Alma, sent certain
men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire of
the Lord whither the armies of the Nephites should
go, to defend themselves against the Lamanites. And
it came to pass that the word of the Lord came unto
Alma, and Alma informed the messengers of Moroni
that the armies of the Lamanites were marching round
about in the wilderness, that they might come over
into the land of Manti, that they might commence an
attack upon the more weak part of the people. And
those messengers went and delivered the message unto
Moroni,
Now Moroni, leaving a part of his army in the land
of Jershon, lest by any means, a part of the Laman­
ites should come into {hat land and take possession of
the city, took the remainder part of his army and
inarched over into the land of Manti. And he caused
that all the people in that quarter of the land, should
gather themselves together to battle, against the La-
manites, to defend their lands and their country, tlieir
rights and their liberties; therefore they were prepared
against the time of the coming of the Lamanites.—
And it carne to pass, that Moroni caused that bis
army should be.secreted in the valley which was near
the bank of the river Sidon, which was on the west
of the river Sidon, in the wilderness. And Moroni
placed spies round about, that he might know when
the camp of the Lamanites should come.
And now as Moroni knew the intention of the La­
manites, that it was their intention to destroy their
brethren, or to subject them and bring them into
bondage, that they might establish a kingdom unto
themselves, over all the land; and he also knowing
that it was the only desire of the Nephites to preserve
their lauds, and their liberty and their church, there­
fore he thought it no sin that he should defend them
by stratagem; therefore he found, by bis spies, which
course the Lamanites were to take. Therefore lie di­
vided his army, and brought a part over into the val­
ley, and concealed them on the east, and on the south
of the hill Riplah; and the remainder he'concealed in
the west valley, on the west of the river Sidon, and
so down into the borders of the land Manti. And
thus having placed his army according to his desire,
he was prepared to meet them.
BOOS OF A M U .
And it came to pass that the Lamanites came up
on the north of the hill where a part of the army of
Moroni was concealed. And as the Lamanitea had
passed the hill lliplah, and come into the valley, and
began to cross the river Sidon, the army which was
concealed on the south of the hill, which was led by
a man whose name was Lehi; and he led his army
forth and encircled the Lamanites about, on the east,
in their rear.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites, when they
saw the Nephites coming upon them in their rear,
turned them about, and begun to contend with the ar­
my of Lehi; and the work .of death commenced, on
both sides; but it was more dreadful on the part ofthe
Lamanites; for their nakedness was exposed to the
iieavy blows of the Nephites, with their swords and
their cimeters, which brought death almost at every
stroke; while on the other hand, there was now and
then a man fell among the Nephites, by their swords,
and the loss of blood; they being shielded from the
more vital parts of the body, or the more vital parts of
the body being shielded from the strokes of the Laman­
ites, by their breast-plates, and their arm-shields, and
their head-plates; and thus the Nephites did carry on
the work of death among the Lamanites. And it
came to pass that the Lamanites became frightened,
because of the great destruction among them, even
until they began to flee towards the river Sidon.—
And they were pursued by Lehi and his men, and
they were driven by Lehi into the waters of Sidon;
and they crossed the waters of Sidon. And Lehi re­
tained his armies upon the bank of the river Sidon,
that they should not cross.
And it came to pass that Moroni and his army met
the Lamanites in the valley, on the oilier side of the
river Sidon, and began to fall upon them, and to,slay
them. And the Lamanites did flee again before them,
towards the land of Manti; and they were met again
by the armies of Moroni. Now in this case, the La­
manites did fight exceedinly; yea, never had the La­
manites been known to fight with such .exceeding
great strength and courage; no, not even from.the.be­
ginning; and they were inspired by the Zoramites,
anditha Amalekitee, who were their chief captains and
leaders, and by Zerahemnah, who was their chief cap­
tain* or their chief leader and commander; -yea,,they
did fight like dragons; and maaypf the Nephites were
3 6 3
364
slain by their hands; yea, for they did smite in two
many of their head-plates; and they did pierce many
of their breast-plates; and they did smite off many of
their arms; and thus the Lamanites did smile in their
fierce anger. Nevertheless, the Nephites were inspir­
ed by a better cause; for they were not fighting for
monarchy nor power; but they were fighting for their
homes, and their liberties, their wives, and their child­
ren, and their all; yea, for their rites of worstiip, and
their church; and they were doing that which they
felt was the duty which they owed to their God; for
the Lord had said unto them, and also unto their fa­
thers, that inasmuch as ye are not guilty of the first
offence, neither the second, ye shall not suffer your­
selves to be slain by the hands of your enemies. And
again, the Lord has said that ye shall defend your
lamilies, even unto bloodshed; therefore for this cause
were the Nephites contending with the Lamanites, to
defend themselves, and their families, and their lands,
their country, and their rights, and their religion.
And it came-to pass that when the men of Moroni
saw the fierceness and the anger of the Lamanites,
they were about to shrink and flee from them. And
Moroni, perceiving their intent, sent forth and inspir­
ed their hearts with these thoughts; yea, the thoughts
of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from
bondage. And it came to pass that they turned upon
the Lamanites, and they cried with one voice unto the
| Lord their God, for their liberty, and their freedom
p from bondage. And they began to stand against the
Lamanites with power; and in that self-sume hour
f tliat they cried unto the Lord for their freedom, the
Lamanites began to flee before them; and they fled
even to the waters of Sidon. Now the Lamanites
were more numerous;1
yea, by more than double the
r number of the Nephites; nevertheless, they were
driven insomuch that they were gathered together in
one body, in the valley, upon the bank, by the river
- Sidon; therefore the armies of Moroni encircled them
about; yea, even on both sides of the river; for be-
| hold, on the east, were the men of Lehi; therefore
| when Zerahemnah saw the men of Lehi on the east of
the river Sidon, and the armies of Moroni on the west
[ of the river Sidon, that they were encircled about by
L the Nephites, they were struck with terror. Now
W Moroni, when he saw their terror,. commanded his
r men that they should stop shedding their blood.
BOOK OP ALMA.
BOOK OF ALMA. 365
i And it came to pass that they did stop, and .with­
drew a pace from them. And Moroni said unto Ze-
rahemnah,’behold, Zerahemnah, that we do not de­
sire to be inen of blood. Ye know that ye are in our
hands, yet we do not desire to slay you. Behold, we
have not come out to battle against you, that we
might shed your blood, for power; neither do we de­
sire to bring any one to the yoke of bondage. But
this is the very cause for which yc have come against
us; yea, and ye are angry with us because of our re­
ligion. But now ye behold that the Lord is with us;
and ye behold that he has delivered you into our
hands. And now I would that ye should understand
that this is done unto us because of our religion and
our faith in Christ. And now ye see tiiat ye cannot
destroy this our faith. Now ye see that this is the
true faith of God; yea, ye see that God will support,
and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful
onto him, and unto our faith, and our religion; and
never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed;
except we should fall into transgression, and deny our
faith. And now, Zerahemnah, I command you, in
the name of that all-powerful God, who has strength­
ened our arms, that we have gained power over you
by our faith, by our religion, and by our rites of wor­
ship, and by our church, and by the sacred support
which we owe to our wives and our children, by that
liberty which binds us to our lands and our country;
yea, and also by the maintenance of the sacred word
of God, to which we owe all our happiness; and by
all that is most dear unto us; yea, and this is not all;
I command you by all the desires which ye have for
life, that ye deliver up your weapons of war unto us,
and we will seek not your blood, but we will spare
your Jives, if ye will go your way, and come not again
to war against ns. And' now if ye do not this, behold,
ye are in our hands, and 1 will command my men that
they shall fall upon you, and inflict the wounds of
death in your bodies, that ye may become extinct;
and then we will see who shall have power over this
people; yea, we will see who shall be brought into
bondage.
And now it came to pass that when Zerahemnah
had heard these sayings, he came forth and delivered
up his sword and his cimeter, and his bow into the
hands oLMoroni, and said:unto him, behold, here are
our weapons of war; we will! deliver'them up unto
S66 BOOS OF ALMA.
you, and we will not suffer ourselves to take an oath
unto you, which we know that we shall break, and al­
so our children; but take our weapons of war, and
suffer that we may depart into the wilderness; other­
wise we will retain our swords, and we will perish or
conquer. Behold, we are not of your faith; we do
not believe that it is God that lias delivered us into
your hands; but we believe that it is your cunning
that has preserved you from our swords. Behold, it
is your breast-plates, and your shields that has pre­
served you. And now when Zerahemnah had made
an end of speaking these words, Moroni returned the
sword, and the weapons of war which he had receiv­
ed, unto Zerahemnah, saying, behold, we will end
the conflict. Now I cannot retain the words which I
have spoken; therefore, as the Lord liveth, ye shall
not depart, except ye depart with an oath, that ye will
not return again against us to war. Now as ye are
in our hands, we will spill your hlood upon the ground,
or ye shall submit to the conditions to which I have
proposed. And now when Moroni had said these
words, Zerahemnah retained his sword, and he was
angry with Moroni, and he rushed forward that -he
might sky Moroni; but as he raised iris sword, be­
hold, one of Moroni's soldiers smote it even to the
earth; and> it broke by the hilt; and he also smote
Zerahemnah, that he took off his scalp, and it fell to
the earth. And Zerahemnah withdrew from before
them, into the midst of his soldiers.
And it came to pass that the solldier who stood by,
who smote off the scalp of Zerahemnah, took up the
scalp from off the ground, by the hair, and laid it up­
on the point of his sword, and stretched it forth unto
them, saying unto them with a loud voice,- even as
this scalp has fallen to the earth, which is the scalp
of your chief, so shall ye fall to the earth, except ye
will deliver up your weapons of war, and depart, with
a covenant of peace. ■ „
Now there were many, when they heard these
words, and saw the scalp which was upon the sword,
that were struck with fear, and many came forth and
threw down their weapons of war, at the feet of Mo­
roni, and entered into a covenant, of peace.? And as
many as entered into a.covenant, they suffered to de­
part into the w i l d e r n e s s ; t , 1 ,.«£ ;r*o.-ssi *ii!
:*\Nowtiit, eame to pass tbatiZerahemnahwas exceed­
ing vxoth, and he did stir up the remainder of-bis
BOOK OF; ALMA. 367
soldiers to anger, to contend more powerfully against
the Nepliites. And now Moroni was angry, because
of the stubbornness of the Lamanites; therefore he
commanded his people that they should fall upon them
and slay them. And it came to pass that they began
to slay them; yea, and the Lamanites did contend
with their swords and their mights. But behold, their
naked skins, and their bare heads, were exposed to the *
sharp swords of the Nepliites; yea, behold, Uiey were
pierced and smitten; yea, and did fall exceeding fast
before the swords of the Nepliites; and they began to
be swept down, even as the soldier of Moroni had
prophesied. Now Zerahemnah, when he saw that
they were all about to be destroyed, cried mightily un­
to Moroni, promising that he would covenant, and al­
so his people, with them, if they would spare the re­
mainder of their lives, that they never would come to
war again against them. And it came to pass that
Moroni caused that the work of death should cease
agaiu among the people. And he took the weapons
of war from the Lamanites; and after they had enter­
ed into a covenant with him of peace, they were suf­
fered to depart into the wilderness. Now the number
of their dead were not numbered, because of the great­
ness of the number; yea, the number of their dead
were exceeding great, both on the Nepliites, and on
the Lamanites. And it came to pass that they did
cast their dead into the waters of Sidon; and they
have gone forth, and are buried in the depths of the
sea. And the armies of the Nephites, or of Moroni,
returned, and came to their houses, and their lands.
And thus ended the eighteenth year of the reign of
the judges over the people of Nephi. And thus ended
the record of Alma, which was wrote upon the plates
of Nephi.
1
■
K
:
i ,
Vv?* 'n
'
r.
'r:
3 6 8 BOOK OF ALMA,.
CHAPTER XXL
Tke account of thepeople of Nejtki, and their wars and
dissensions, in the days of Helaman, according to the
record of Helaman, which he kept in his days.
Behold, now it came to pass that the people of Ne-
phi were exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had
again delivered them out of the hands of their enemies;
therefore they gave thanks unto the Lord their God;
yea, and they did fast much and pray much, and they
did worship God with exceeding great joy.
And it came to pass in tiie nineteenth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Al­
ma came unto his son Helaman, and said unto him,
believeslthou the words which I spake unto thee con­
cerning those records which have been kept? And
Helaman said unto him, yea, I believe. And Alma
said again, believest thou in Jesus Christ, who shall
come? And he said, yea, I believe all the words
which thou hast spoken. And Alma said unto him
again, will ye keep my commandments? And he
said, yea, I will keep thy commandments with all my
heart. Then Alma said unto him, blessed art thou;
and the Lord shall prosper thee in this land. But be­
hold, I have somewhat to prophesy unto thee; but
what I prophesy unto thee, ye shall not make known;
yea, what I prophesy unto thee shall not be made
known, even until the prophecy is fulfilled; therefore
write the words which I shall say. And these are
the words: Behold, I preceive that this very people,
the Nephites, according to the spirit of revelation
which is in me, in four hundred years from the time
that Jesus Christ shall manifest himself unto them,
shall dwindle in unbelief; yea, and then shall they see
wars and pestilences, yea, famines and bloodshed,
even until the people of Nephi shall become extinct;
yea, and this because they shall dwindle in unbelief,
and fall into the works of darkness and lasciviousness,
and alt manner of iniquities; yea, I say unto you, that
because they shall sin against so great light and
knowledge; yea, I say unto you, that from that day,
even the fourth generation shall not all pass away,
before this great iniquity shall come; and when that
great day cometh, behold, the time very soon cometh
that those who are now, or the seed of those who are
now numbered among the people of Nephi,* shall no
BOOK or ALMA. J 3 6 9 '
more be numbered among Ihe people of Nephi; but
whosoever remaineth, and i» not destroyed in that
great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the
Lamanites, and shall become like unto them, all, save
it be a few, who shall be called the disciples of the
Lord; and them shall the Lamanites pursue, even un­
til they shall become extinct. And now, because of
iniquity, this prophecy shall be fulfilled.
And now it came to pass that after Alma had said
these things to Helaman, he blessed him, and also his
other sons; and he also blessed the earth, for the right­
eous’ sake. And he said, thus saith the Lord God:
Cursed shall be the land, yea, this land, unto every
nation, kindred, tongue, and people, unto destruction,
which do wickedly, when they are fully ripe; and as
I have said, so shall it be: for this is the cursing and
the blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord can­
not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance.
And now, when Alma had said these words, he bless­
ed the church, yea, all those who should stand fast in
the faith, from that time henceforth; and when Alma
had done this, he departed out of the land of Zarahem-
3a, as if to go into the land of Melek. ^\nd it came to
pass that he was never heard of more; as to his death
or burial, we know not of. Behold, this we know,
that lie was a righteous man; and the saying went
abroad in the church, that he was taken up by the
spirit, or buried by the hand of the Lord, even as Mo­
ses. But behold, the scripture saith the Lord took
Moses unto himself; and we suppose that he has also
received Alma in the spirit, unto himself; therefore,
for this cause, we know nothing concerning his death
and burial.
And now it came to pass in the commencement of
the nineteenth year of the reign of thejudges efrer the
people of Nephi, that Helaman went forth among the
people to declare the word unto them; for behold, be­
cause of their wars with the Lamanites, and the many
little dissensions and disturbances which had been
among tbe people, it became expedient that the word
of God should be declarer! among them; yea, and that
a regulation should be made throughout the church;
therefore Helaman and his brethren went forth to es­
tablish the church.again in all the land, yea, in every
city throughout all the land which was possessed by
the people of.Nephi. And it came to pass that they
370 BOOS OF ALMA.
did appoint priests and teachers throughout all the
land, oyer all the churches. ■
G ■
'
And now it came to pass that after Helaman and
his brethren had appointed priests and teachers over
the churches, that there arose a dissention among
them, and they would not give heed to the words of
Helaman and his brethren; but they grew proud, be­
ing lifted up in their iiearts, because of their exceed­
ing great riches; therefore they grew rich in their own
eyes, and would not give heed to their words, to walk
uprightly before God.
And it came to pass that as many as would not
hearken to the words of Helaman and his brethren,
were gathered together against their brethren. And
now behold, they were exceeding wroth, insomuch
that they were determined to slay them. Now tho
leader of those who were wroth against their brethren,
was a large and a strong man; and his name was Am-
alickiah. And Amalickiah was desirous to be a king;
and those people who were wroth, were also desirous
that he should be their king; and they were the great­
er part of them the lower judges of the land; amt
they were scek^g for power. And they had been led
by the flatteries of Amalickiah, that if they would
support him, and establish him to be their king, that
he would make them rulers over the people. Thus
they were led away by Amulickiah, to dissensions,
notwsthstanding the preaching of Helaman and his
brethren; yea, notwithstanding their exceeding great
care over the church, for they were high priests over
the church. And there were many in the church who
believed in the flattering words of Amalickiah; there­
fore they dissented even from the church; and thus
were the affairs of the people of Nephi exceeding pre­
carious^ and dangerous, notwithstanding their great
victory which they had had over the Lamanites, and
their great rejoicings which they bad- had, because of
their deliverance by the hands of the Lord. Thus we
see how quick the children of men do forget the Lord
their God; yea, how quick to do iniquity, and to bo
led away by the evil one; yea, and we also see the
great wickedness one very wicked man can cause to
take place among the children of men; yea, we see
that Amalickiah, because he was a man of-cunning
devices, and a man of many flattering words, that he
led away the hearts of many people to"' do,?wickedly;
yea, and to seek to destroy the church of God, and to
BOOK OF ALMA. 371
destroy the foundation of liberty which God had giant'
ed unto them, or which blessing God had sent upon
the face of the land, for the righteous’ sake.
And now it came to pass that wheni Moroni, who
was the chief commander of the armies of the Ne-
phites, bad heard of these dissensions, he was angry
with Atnalickiah. And it came to pass that he rent
his coat; and he took a piece thereof, and wrote upon
it, in memory of our God, our religion, and freedom,
and our peace, our wives, and our children; and he
fastened it upon the end of a pole thereof. And he
fastened on his head-plate, and his breast-plate, and
his shields, and girded on his armour about his loins;
and he took the pole, which had on the end thereof
his rent coal, (and he called it the title of liberty,)
and he bowed himself to the earth, and lie prayed
mightily unto his God for the blessings of liberty to
rest upon his brethren so long as there should a band
ofChristians remain to possess the land; for thus were
all the true believers of Christ, who belonged to the
church of God, called, by those who did not belong to
the church; and those who did belong to the church,
were faithful; yea, all those who were true believers
in Christ, took upon them, gladly, the name of Christ,
or Christians, as they were called, because of their be­
lief in Christ, who should come; and therefore, at
this time, Moroni prayed that the cause of the christ*
ians, and the freedom of the land might be favored.
And it came to pass that when he had poured out
hissoul to God, he gave all the Jand which was south
ofthe land Desolation; yea, and in fine, all the land,
both on the north and on the south, a chosen land,
and the land of liberty. And he said, surely God
shall not suffer that we, who are despised because we
take upon us the name of Christ, shall be trodden
down and destroyed, until we bring it upon us, by our
own transgressions. And when Moroni had said
these words, he went forth among lire people, waving
the rent of his garment in the air, that alt might see
the-writing which he had wrote upon the rent, and
crying with a loud voice, saying, behold, whosoever
will maintain this title upon the land,* let them come
forth in the strength of the Lord, and enter into a
covenant that they will (maintain their rights, and
their religion, that the Lord God may bless them.f L,>.
And it came to pass that whenMoroni had proclaim-!
ed these winds, behold, the people came running to*
3 7 2 BOCK OF ALMA.
gather, with their armors girded about their loins,
rending their garments in token, or as a covenant, that
they would not forsake the Lord their God; or, in
other words, if they should transgress the command-
ments of God, or fall into transgression, and be asham­
ed to take upon them the name of Christ, the Lord
should rend them even as they had rent their gar­
ments. Now this was the covenant winch they made;
and they cast their garments at the feet of Moroni,
saying, we covenant with our God, that we shall be
destroyed, even as our brethren in the land northward,
if we shall fall into transgression; yea, he may cast us
at the feet of our enemies, even as we have cast our
garments at thy feet, to bo trodden under foot, if we
shall fall into transgression. Moroni said unto them,
behold, we are a remnant of the seed of Jacob; yea,
we are a remnant of the seed of Joseph, whose coat
was rent by his brethren, into many pieces; yea, and
now behold, let us remember to keep the command­
ments of God, or our garments shall be rent by our
brethren, and we be cast into prison, or be sold, or bs
slain; yea, let us preserve our liberty, as a remnant
of Joseph: yea, let us rememember the words of Ja­
cob, before his death; for behold, he saw that apart
of the remnant of the coat of Joseph wa3 preserved,
and had not decayed. And he said, even as this rem­
nant of garment of my sons hath been preserved, so
shall a remnant of the seed of my sons be preserved
by the hand of God, and bi taken unto himself, while
the remainder of the seed of Joseph shall perish, even
as the remnantofhis garment. Now behold, this giveth
my sou! sorrow; nevertheless, my soul-hath joy in niv
son, because that part of his seed which shall be taken
unto God. Now behold, this was the language of
Jacob. And now who knoweth but what the remnant
of the seed of Joseph, which shall perish as his gar­
ment, are those who have dissented from us; yea, and
even it shall be us, if we do not stand fast in the faith
of Christ.
And now it cam* to pass that whomMoroni had said
these words, ho went forth, and also sent forth in all
the parts of the land where there were dissensions, and
gathered together all the people who were desirous to
maintain their liberty, to stand against Amahckiah,
and those who had'dissented, who were called Anaa-
lickiahites. ■ fe-
V
- ' S i : '$&)«««£ eft*-' p q g f r * ■ '■ v g & i
BOOK OT ALMA. 373
And it came' to pass that when Amalickiah saw that
the people of Moroni were more numerous than the
Amalickiaiutes; and he also Saw that his people were
doubtful concerning the justice of the cause in which
they had undertaken; therefore, fearing that he should
not gain the point, lie took those of his people who
would, and’departed into the land of Nephi.
Now Moroni thought it was not expedient that the
Lamanites should have anymore strength; therefore
he thought to cut off the people of Amalickiah, or to
take them and bring them hack, and put Amalickiah
to death; yea, for lie knew that they would stir up the
Lamanites to anger against them, and cause them to
come to battle against them; and this he knew that
Amalickiah would do, that he might obtain his pur­
poses; therefore Moroni thought it was expedient that
he should take his armies, who hatf gathered them­
selves together, and armed themselves, and entered
into a covenant to keep the peace; And it came to
pass that he took his army, and marched out into the
wilderness, to cut off the course of Amalickiah in the
wilderness.
And it came to pass that he did according to his
desires, and marched forth into the wilderness, and
headed the armies of Amalickiah. Asd it came to
pass that Amalickiah fled with a, small number of his
men, and the remainder were delivered up into the
hands of Moroni, and were taken back into the land
of Zarahemla. Now Moroni being a man who was
appointed by the chiefjudges and the voice of the peo­
pletherefore he had power according to his will, with
the armies ofthe Nephites, to establish and to exercise
authority over them.
And it came to pass that whomsoever of the Ama-
lickiahites that would not enter into a eonvenant to
support the cause of freedom, that they might main­
tain a free government, he caused to be put to death;
and there was but few who denied the covenant of
freedom.
_And it came to pass also, that he caused the title of
liberty to be hoisted upon every tower which was in
all the land, which was possessed by the Nephites;
and thus Moroni planted the standard of liberty among
the Nephites. And they began to hare peace again
*
1
1the land; and thus they did maintain peace in
the land, until nearly the end of the nineteenth year
of the reign of the judges. And Helaman and the
374 BOOJC OP ALMA.
high priests did also maintain order in the church;
yea, even for the space of four years, did they have
much peace and rejoicing in the church.
And it came to pass that there were many who died,
firmly believing that their souls were redeemed by the
Lord Jesus Christ; thus they went out of the world
rejoicing. And there were some who died with fevers,
which at some seasons of the year, was very frequent
in the land; but not so much so with fevers, because
of the excellent qualities of tire many plants and roots
which God had prepared, to remove the cause ofdisea­
ses to which men was subject, by the nature of the
climate. But there were many who died with old age;
and those who died in the faith of Christ, are happy
in him, as we must needs suppose. Now we will re­
turn in our record, to Amalickiah, and those who had
fled with him into the wilderness: for behold, he had
taken those who went with him, and went up in the
land of Nephi, among the Lnraanile3, and did stir up
the Lamanites to anger, against the people of Nephi,
insomuch that the king oi the Lamanites sent a proc­
lamation throughout all Ins'"land, among all his peo-
pie, that they should gather themselves together again,
to go to battle against the Nephites.
f1 And it came to pass that when the proclamation
had gone Forth among them, they were exceeding fraid;
yea, they feared to displease the king, and they also
feared to go to battle against the Nephites, lest they
should lose their lives. And it came to pass that they j
would not, or the more part of them would not obey
the commandments of the king.
And now it came to pass that the king was wroth,
because of their disobedience; therefore he gave Ama-
lickiah the command of that part of his army which
was obedient unto iiis commands, and commanded him
that he should go forth and compel them to arms.
Now1
behold, this was the desire of Amulcikiah: for he
being a very subtle man to do evil, therefore he laid
the plan in his heart to dethrone the king ot the La-
manites. And now,he had got the command of those
parts of the Lamanites who were in favor of the king;
and he,sought to gain favor of those vvho were,not obe­
dient;.therefore herwent forward^to the place which
was called Onidah, for thither had all the Lamanites
fled; for;they’discovered the army coming, and sup­
posing that,they were,con>ing to destroy, them, there­
fore they fled, to Onidah, to<the place of arms. And
BOOK OF ALHA. 373
they had appointed a man to be a king and a leader
over them, being fixed in their minds with a determin­
ed resolution that they would not be subjected to go
against the Nephites. - »
And it came to pass that they had gathered them^
selves together upon top of the mount which was called
Antipas, in preparation to battle. Now it was not
Amalickiah’s intention to give them battle, according
to the commandments of the king; but behold, it was
his intention to gain favor witli the armies of the La-
manites, that he might place himself at their head,
and dethrone the king, and take possession of the king­
dom. And behold, it came to pass that he caused his
army to pitch their tents in the valley which was near
the mount Antipas. And it came to pass that when it
was night, he sent a secret embassy into the mount
Antipas, desiring that the leader of those who were
upon the mount, whose name was Lehonti, that he
should come down to the foot of the mount, for he de­
sired to speak with him.
And it came to pass that when Lehonti received
the message, he durst not go down to the foot of the
mount. And it came to pass that Amaliokhiahsent again
the second time, desiring him to come down. And it
came to pass that Lehonti would not; and he sent again
the third time. And it came to pass that when Amalio-
kiah found that he could not get Lehonti to come
down off from the mount, he went up into the mount,
nearly to Lehonti'scamp; and he sent again the fourth
time, his message unto Lehonti, desiring tiiat he would
come down, and that he would bring his guards with
him.
And it came to pass that when Lehonti had come
down with his guards to Amalickiah, that Amalickiah
desired him to corne down with his army in the night
time, and surround those men in their camps, over
whom the king had gave him command, and that he
would deliver them up into Lehonti’s hands, if he
would make him, (Amalickiah.) a second leader over
the whole army.
And it came to pass that Lehonti came down with
Ins men, and surrounded the men of Amalickiah, so
that before they awoke at the dawn of the day, they
were surrounded by the armies of Lehonti. And it
came to pass that when they saw that they were sur-t*
founded, they plead with Amalickiah that he would
8offer them to .fall in with their brethren, that they
376 BOOS OF ALMA.
might not be destroyed Notr this was the very thing
which Amalickiah desired.
And it came to pass that he delivered his men, con­
trary to the commands of the king. Now this was the
thing that Amalickiah desired, that iie might accom­
plish his designs in dethroning the king. Now it was
the custom among the Lamanites, it their chief leader
was killed, to appoint the second leader to he their
chief leader.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that
one of his servants should administer poison, by de­
grees to Lehonti, that he died. Now when Lehonti
was dead, the Lamanites appointed Amalickiah to be
their leader and their chief commander. And it came
to pass that Amalickiah marched with his armies (for
he had gained his desires) to the land of Nephi, to the
city of Nephi, which was the ciiief city. And the
king came out to meet him, with his guards: for he
supposed that Amalickiah had fulfilled his commands,
and that Amalickiah had gathered together so great an
army to go against the Nephites to battle. But behold,
as the king came out to meet him, Amaliftkiah caused
that his servants should go forth to meet the king.
And they went and bowed themselves before the king,
as if to reverence him, because of his greatness. And
it came to pass that the king,put forth his hand to
raise them, as was the custom with the Lamanites, as
a token of peace, which custom they had taken from
the Nephites. And it came to pass that when he had
raised the first from the ground, behold he stabbed the
king to the heart; and he fell to the earth. Now the
servants of the king fled; and the servants of Amalie-
kiah raised a cry, saying, behold, the servants of the
king have stabbed him to the heart, and he has fell,
and they have fled; behold, come and see.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah commanded
that his armies should march forth, and see what had
happened to the king; and when they had come to the
spot, and found the king liying in his gore, Amalie
kiah pretended to be wroth, and said whosoever loved
the king, let him go forth and pursue his servants, that
they may be slain.
And it came to pass that when"all they who loved
the king, when they heard these words, came forth and
pursued after theeervants of the king. Now when the
servants of the kingsaw an. army pursuing after them,
they were frighted again, and fled into the wilderness,
BOOK OF ALMA. 377
and came over in the land of Zarahemla, and joined
the people of Ammon; and the army which pursued
after them, returned, having pursued after them in
vain: and thus Amalickiah, by his fraud, gained the
hearts of the people.
And it came to pass on the morrow, he entered the
city Ncpbi, with his armies, and took possession of the
city. And now it came to pass that the queen, when
Bhe had beard that the king was slain: for Amalickiah
had sent an embassy to lire queen, informing her that
the king had been slain by his servants; that he had
pursued them with his army, but it was in vain, and
they had made their escape, therefore when the qneen
had received this message, she sent unto Amalickiah,
desiring him that he would spare the people of the
city; and she also desired him that he should come in
unto her; and she also desired him that he should
bring witnesses with him, to testify concerning the
death of the king.
Ami it came to pass that Amalickiah took the same
servant that slew the king, and all they who were with
him, and went in unto the queen, unto the place where
she sat; and they all testified unto her that the king
was slain by his own servants; and they said, also,
they have fled; does not this testify against them!
And thus they satisfied the queen concerning the death
of the king.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah sought the
favor of the queen, and look her unto him to wife; and
thus by his fraud, and by the assistance of his cunning
servants, he obtained the kingdom: yea, he was ac­
knowledged king throughout all the land, among all
the people of the Lamanites, who were composed of
the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the Ishmael-
ites, and all the dissenters of the Nephites, from the
reign of Nephi down to the present time. Now these
dissenters, having the same instruction and the same
information of the Nephites; yea, having been instruct­
ed in the same knowledge of the Lord; nevertheless,
it is strange to relate, not long after their dissen­
sions, they became more hardened and impenitent, and
more wild, wicked and ferocious, than the Lamanites;
drinking in with the traditions of the Lamanites; giv­
ing way to indolence, and all manner of lascivious­
ness;- yea,' entirely forgetting the Lord their God.-
a j,g \ •<
!•?
. 'V '.c. ■
iWxrohsifl.;,. - i r f v~ . ... ..
37 8
And now it came to pass that as soon as Amalickiah
had obtained the kingdom, he began to inspire the
hearts of the Lamanites against the people of Nephi;
yea, he did appoint men to speak unto the Lamanites
from tiieir towers, against tiie Nephitcs; and thus he
did inspire their hearts against the Nephitcs, insomuch,
that in the latter end of the nineteelh year of the reign
of the judges, lie having accomplished his designs
thus far; yea, having been made king over the Laman-
ites, he sought also to reigu over all the land; yea,
and all tire people who were in the land, the Ncpbites
as well as the Lamanites, therefore he had accomplish­
ed his design, for he had hardened the hearts of the
Lamanites, and blinded their minds, and stirred them
up to anger, insomuch that he had gathered together a
numerous host, to go to battle against the Nephites.
For he was determined, because of the greatness of
the number of llis people, to overpower the Neniiites,
and to bring them into bondage; and thus he did ap­
point chief captains of the Zoramites, they being the
most acquainted with the strength of the Nephitcs, and
their places of resort, and the weakest parts of their
cities; therefore he appointed them to be chief captains
over his armies.
And it came to pass that they took their camp, and
moved forth towards the laud of Zarahemla, in the
wilderness. Now it came to pass that while Amalic-
kiah had thus been obtaining power by fraud and de­
ceit, Moroni, on the other hand, had been preparing
the minds of the people to be faithful unto the Lord
their God; yea, he had.been strengthening the armies
of the Nephites, and erecting small forts, or places of
resort; throwing up banks of earth round about, to
enclose his armies, and also building walls of stone to
encircle them about, round about their cities, and the
borders of their lands; yea, all round about the land;
and in their weakest fortifications, he did place the
greater number of men; and thus he did fortify and
strengthen the land which was possessed by the Ne-
phites. And thus he was preparing to support their
liberty, their lands, their wives, and their children, and
their peace, and that they might live unto the Lord
their God, and that they might maintain that which
was called by their enemies the cause of Christians.
And Moroni was a strong and a mighty man; he was
a man of a perfect understanding; yea, a man that did
not delight in bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in
BOOK. OF ALMA.
BOOK OF ALMA. 373
the liberty and the freedom of his country, and his
brethren from bondage and slavery; yea, a man whose
heart did swell with thanksgiving to his God, for the
many privileges and blessings which he bestowed upon
his people; a man who did labor exceedingly for the
welfare and safety of his people; yea, and he Wa3 a
man who was firm in the faith of Christ, and be had
sworn with an oath, to defend his people, his rights,
and his country, and his religion, even to the loss of
his blood. Now the Nephites were taught to defend
themselves againsr their enemies, even to the shedding
of blood, if it were necessary; yea, and they were also
taught never to give an offence; yea, and never to
raise the sword, except it were against an enemy,
except it were to preserve their lives: and this was
their faith, that by so doing, God would prosper them
in the land; or in other words, if they were faithful in
keeping the commandments of God, that he would
prosper them in the land; yea, warn them to flee, or
to preparefor war, according to their danger; and alsp,
that God would make it known unto them, whither
they should go to defend themselves against their ene*
mies; arid by so doing, the Lord would deliver them,
and this was the faith of Moroni; and his heart did
glory in it; not in the shedding of blood, but in doing
good, in preserving his people; yea, in keeping the
commandments of God; yea, and resisting iniquity.
Yea, verily, verily I say unto you, if all men had been,
and were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni, behold,
the very powers of hell would have been shaken forev-
er; yea, the devil would never have power over the
hearts of the children of men. Behold, he was a man
like unto Ammon, the son of Mosiah, yea, and even
the other sons of Mosiah; yea, and also Alma and his
sons, for they were all men of God. Now behold-,
Helaman and his brethren were no less serviceable
unto the people, than was Moroni; for they did preach
the word of God, and they did baptize unto repentance,
all men whosoever would hearken unto their words.
And thus they went forth, and the people did humble
themselves because of their words, insomuch that they
were highly favored of. the Lord; and thus they were
freefront wars and contentions among themselves; yea,
even for the space of four years. But as I have Baid
in the latter end of the nineteenth ;*yea, notwithstand­
ing their peace amongst;themselves, ‘they were com­
pelled reluctantly tocontend with their brethren,*the
3S0 BOOK OF ALVA.
Lamaniles: yea, and in fine, their wan never did
cease for the space of many years with the Lamanites?,
notwithstanding their much reluctance. Now they
were sorry to take up arms against the Lamaniles, be­
cause they did not delight intho shedding of blood; yea,
and this was not all; they were sorry to ba the means
of sending so many of their brethren out of this world
into an eternal world unprepared to meet their God;
nevertheless, they could not suffer to lay down their
lives, that their wives and their children, should be
massacred by the barbarous cruelty of those who were
once their brethren, yea, and had dissented from their
church, and had left them, and had gone to destroy
them, by joining the Lamanites; yea, they could not
bear that their brethren should rejoice over the blood
of the Nephites, so long as they were any who should
keep the commandments of God, for the promise of
the Lord was, if they should keep his commandments,
they should prosper in the land.
And now it came to pass, in the eleventh month
of the nineteenth year, on the tenth day of the month,
the armies of thesLamanites were seen approaching
towards the land of Amrnonihah. And behold, the
city had been re-built, and Moroni had stationed an
army by the borders of the city, and they had cast up
dirt round about, to shield them from the arrows and
the stones of the Lamanites; for'behokl, they fought
with stones, and with arrows. Behold, 1 said that the
city of Atnmonihnh had been re-built. [ say unto you,
yea, that it was in pi>rt re-built, and because the La­
manites had destroyed it once because of the iniquity
of the people, they supposed that it would again be­
come an easy prey fur them. But behold, how great
was their disappointment; for behold, the Nepnites
had dug up a ridge of earth round about them, which
was so high that the Lamanites could not cast their
etones and their arrows at them, that they might take
effect, neither could they come upon them, save it was
by their place of entrance. Now at this;time, the
chief captains of the Lamanites were astonished ex­
ceedingly, because of the wisdom of the Nephites in
preparing their places of security. Now the leaders
of the Lamanites had supposed, because of the great­
ness of their numbers; yea, they supposed that they
should be privileged to come upon them as they had
hitherto done; yea, and they.had alsop
rep
a
redthem­
selves with shields, a
n
d with b
roast-p
latos; a
n
dth
ey
BOOS OF ALUA. 3 a t
had also prepared themselves with garments of skins;
yea, very thick garments, to cover their nakedness.^
And being thus prepared, they supposed that they
should easily overpower and subject their brethren to
the yoke of bondage, or slay and massacre them accor­
ding to their pleasure. But behold, to their uttermost
astonishment, they were prepared for them, in a man­
ner which never had been known among the children
ofLebi. Now they were prepared for the Lamanites,
to battle, after the manner of the instructions of Mo­
roni. And it came to pass that the Lamanites, or the
Amalickiahites, were exceedingly astonished at their
manner of preparation for war. Now if king Amalic-
kiah had come down out of the land of Nepbi, at the
head of his army, perhaps he would have caused the
Lamunites to have attacked the Nephites at the city
of Ammonihah; for behold, he did care not for the
blood ofhis people. Ilutbahold, Amalickiah did not
come down himself, to battle. And behold, his chief
captains durst not attack the Nephites at the city of
Ammonihah, for Moroni had altered the management
ofaffairs among the Nephites, insomuch that the La­
manites were disappointed in their places of retreat,
and they could not come upon them; therefore they
retreated into the wilderness, and took their camp, and
marched towards the land of Noah, supposing that to
be the next best place for them to come against the
Nephites; for they knew not that Moroni had fortifi­
ed or had built forts of security for every city in all the
land round about; therefore they marched forward to
the land of Noah, with a firm determination; yea,
their chief captains came forward, and took an oath
that they would destroy the people of that city. But
behold, to their astonishment, the city of Noah,"which
had hitherto been a weak place, had now, by the
means of Moroni, become strong; yea, even to exceed
the strength of the city Ammonihah. And now be­
hold, this was wisdom in Moroni; for he had suppo­
sed that they would be frightened at the city Ammon-
ibah; and as the city of Noah had hitherto been the
weakest part ot the land, therefore they would march
thither to battle; and thus it was, according to his de­
sires. } And behold, Moroni had appointed Lehi to be
chief captain over the men of that city; and itw as
that same Lehi who fought with the Lamanites in the
valley, .on.the east of the river Sldon. . , ;
. H . n ' v .- • J t * .
383 BOOK OF A L V A .
And now behold, it came to pass,9that when the La-
manites had found that Lehi commanded the city, they
were again disappointed, for they ieared Lehi exceed­
ingly; nevertheless, their chief captains had sworn
with an oath, to attack the city: therefore they brought
np their armies. Now behold, the Lamanites could
not get into their forts of security, by any other way
save by the entrance, because of the highness of the
bank which had been thrown up, and the depth of the
ditch which had been dug round about, save it wore
by the entrance. And thus were theNephites prepar­
ed to destroy all such as should attempt to climb up to
enter the fort by any other way, by casting over stones
and arrows at them. Thus they were prepared; yea,
a body of their most strong men, with their swords
and their slings, to smite down all who should attempt
to come into their place of security, by the place of
entrance; and thus were they prepared to defend
themselves against the Lamanites. And it came to
pass that the captains of the Lamanites brought up
their armies before the place of entrance; and began
to contend with the ^Nephites, to get into their place
of security; but behold, they were driven back from
time to time, insomuch that they were slain, with an
immense slaughter. Now when they found that they
could not obtain power over the Nephites by the pass,
they began to dig down their banks of earth, that they
might obtain a pass to their armies, that they might
have an equal chance to fight; but behold, in these at­
tempts, they were swept off by the stones and the ar­
rows which were thrown at them; and instead of fil­
ling up their ditches by pulling down the banks of
earth, they were filled up in a measure, with their
dead and wounded bodies. Thus the Nephites had all
power over their enemies; and thus the Lamanites did
attempt to destroy the Nephites, until their chiefcap­
tains were all slain; yea, and more than a thousand of
the Lamanites were slain; while on'the other hand,
there was not a single soul of the Nephites .which was
slain. There were about fifty who were wounded,
who had been exposed to the arrows of the Lamanites
through the pass, but they were shielded by their
shields, and their breast-plates, and their head-plates,
insomuch that their wounds were upon their legB; ma­
ny of which were,very'severe. ■
*
=
’ * * t.fano ’s
And it came to pass, that when the Lamanites saw
that their chiefcaptains were all slain, they fled into
BOOK OF ALUA.
■4 .383
thewiideraes?. -And it came to pass that they return­
ed to the land of Nephi, to inform their king, Amalie-
kiah, who was a Nephite by birth, concerning their
great loss. And it came to pass that he was exceed­
ing angry with his people, because he had not obtained
his desire over the Nepbites; he had not subjected
themdo the yoke of bondage; yea, he was exceeding
wroth, and he did curse God, and also Moroni, and
swearing with an oath that he would drink his blood;
and this because Moroni had kept the commandments
of God in preparing for the safety of his people. And
it came to pass, that on the other hand, the people of
Nephi did thank the Lord their God, because of his
matchless power in delivering them from the hands of
their enemies. And thus ended the nineteenth year
of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi;
yea, and there was continual peace among them, and
exceeding great prosperity in the church, because of
their heed and diligence which they gave unto the
word of God, which was declared unto them by Hela-
nian, and Shibion, and Corianton, and Ammon, and
his brethren, &c.: yea, and by all those who had been
ordained by the holy order of God, being baptized un­
to repentance, and sent forth to preach among the peo­
ple, &c.
/
CHAPTER XXIL
.i ' "
*Asd now it came to pass that Moroni did not stop
making preparations for war, or to defend his people
against t;ie Lamanites; for lie caused that his armies
should commence in the commencement of the twen­
tieth year of the reign of the judges, that they should
commence in digging up heaps of earth round about
all the cities, throughout all the land which was pos­
sessed by the Nepbites; and upon the top of these
ridgeaofearth, he caused that there should ba timbers;
yea, works of timbers built up to the heighth of a man,
round about the cities. And he caused that upon
those‘works of timbers, there should be a frame of
pickets built upon the timbers, round about; and they
were strong and high; and he caused towers tu be
erected, that-overlooked those works,of pickets; ,and
884 BOOK OF ALMA.
he caused places of security to be built upon those
towers, that the stones and the arrows of the Lamsu­
ites could not hurt them. And they were prepared,
that they could cast stones from the top thereof, ac­
cording to their pleasure and their strength, and slay
him who should attempt to approach near the walls
of the city. Thus Moroni did prepare strong holds
against the corning of their enemies, round about eve­
ry city in all the land.
And it came to pass that Moroni cansed that his ar­
mies should go forth into the east, wilderness; yea,
and they went forth, and drove all the Lamanites who
were in the east wilderness into their own lands,
which were south of the land of Zarahemla; and the
land of Nephi did run in a straight course from the
cast sea to the west. And it came to pass that when
Moroni had driven all the Lamanites out of the east
wilderness, which was north of the lands of their own
possessions, he caused that the inhabitants who were
in the land of Zarahemla, and in the land round about,
should go forth into the east wilderness, even to the
borders, by the sea shore, and possess the land. And
he also placed armies on the south, in the borders of
their possessions, and caused them to erect fortifica­
tions, that they might secure their armies and their
people from the hands of their enemies. v And thus he
cut off all the strong holds of the Lamanites, in the
east wilderness; yea, and also on the west, fortifying
the line between the Nephites and the Lamanites, be­
tween the land of Zarahemla and the land of Nephi;
from the west sea, running by the head of the river
Sidon; the Nephites possessing all the land northward;
yea, even ail the land which was northward of the
land ^Bountiful, according to their pleasure. Thus
Moroni, with his armies, which did increase daily, be­
cause of the assurance of protection which his works
did bring forth'unto them; therefore they did seek to
cut off the strength and the power of the Lamanites,
from off the landsof theirpossessions, that they Should
have no power upon the lands of their possession.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began the
foundation of a city; and they called the name of the
city Moroni; and .it was by the east sea; and it was
on the south’by'the line of the possessions of the La-
maniies. And they also began a foundation for a city
between the city of Moroni and the city of Aaron,
joining theborders of Aaron 'and Moroni; and they
BOOK 0 7 ALMA. 365
called the name of the city, or the land, Nephihah.—
And they also began, in that same year, to build ma­
ny cities on the north; one in a particular manner
which they called Lehi, which was in the north, by
the borders of the seashore. And thus ended the
twentieth year. And in these prosperous circumstan­
ces were tne people of Nephi, in the commencement
of the twenty and first year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi. And they did prosper ex­
ceedingly, and they became exceeding rich; yea, and
they did multiply, and were strong in the land. And
thus we see bow merciful and just are ail the dealings
of the Lord, to the fulfilling of all his words unto the
children of men; yea, we can behold that his words
are verified, even at this time, which he spake unto
Lehi, saying, blessed art thou and thy children; and
they shall be blessed, inasmuch as they shall keep my
commandments; they shall prosper in the land. But
remember, inasmuch as they will not keep my com­
mandments, they shall be cut off from the presence of
the Lord. And we see that these promises have been
verified to the people of Nephi; for it has been their
quarrellings and their contentions, yea, their murder-
ings, and their plunderings, their idolatry, their whore­
doms, and their abominations, which were among
themselves, which brought upon them their wars and
their destructions. And those who were faithful in
keeping the commandments of the Lord, were deliv­
ered at all times, whilst thousands of their wicked
brethren have been consigned to bondage, or to perish
by the sword, or to dwindle in unbelief, and mingle
.. with tire Lamanites. But behold there never was a
happier lime among the people of Nephi, since the
days of Nephi, than in the days of Moroni; yea, even
at this time, in the twenty and first year of the reign
of the judges. And it came to pass^that the twenty
and second year of the reign of the judges, also ended
in peace; -yea, and also the twenty and third year.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of
the twenty and fourth year of the reign of the judges,
there would also have been peace among the people of
Nephi, had it not been for a contention which took
place among them concerning the land of Lehi, and
the land of Morianton, which joined upon the borders
ofLehi; both of which were on the borders by the sea
shore. For behold, the people who possessed the land
S',
386 BOOK OF ALMA.
of Morianton, did claim a part of’the land of Lehi;
therefore there began to be a warm contention between
them, insomuch that the people of Morianton took up
arms against their brethren, and they were determined
by the sword to slay them. But behold, the people
who possessed the land of Lehi, fled to the camp of
Moroni, and appealed unto him for assistance; for be­
hold, they were not in the wrong.
And it came to pass that when the people of Mori­
anton, who were led-by a man whose name was Mori­
anton, found that the people ofLehi had fled to the camp
ofMoroni, they were exceeding fearful lest the army of
Moroni should come upon them, and destroy them;
therefore, Morianton put it into their hearts that they
should flee to the land which was northward, which
was covered with large bodies of water, and take pos­
session of the land which was northward. And be­
hold, they would have carried this plan into effect,
(which would have been a cause to have been lament­
ed,) but behold, Morianton, being a man of much pas­
sion, therefore lie was angry with one of his maidserv­
ants, and he fell upon her, and beat her much. And
it came to pass that she fled, and came over to the
camp of Moroni, and told Moroni all things concern­
ing the matter; and also concerning their intentions to
flee into the land northward. Now behold, the people
who were in the land Bountiful, or rather Moroni,
feared that they would hearken to the words of Mori­
anton, and unite with his people, and thus he would
obtain possession of those parts of the land, which
would lay a foundation for serious consequences among
the people of Nephi; yea, which consequences would
lead to the overthrow of their liberty; therefore Moro­
ni sent an army, with their camp, to head the people i
of Morianton, to stop their flight into the land north- i
ward- And it came to pass that they did not bead
them, until they had come to the borders of the land
Desolation; and there they did head them, by thenar-
row pass which led by the sea into the land northward;
yea, by the sea, on the west, and on the east. j
And it came to pass that the army which was sent
by Moroni, which was led by a man whose name was
Teancum, did meet the people of Morianton; and so
stubborn were the people of Morianton,.(being inspir­
ed by his wickedness and his flattering words,) that a
battle commenced between them, in the which Team
cum didslay Mbrianton, and defeat his army, and took
BOOK OP A LM A , 367
them prisoners, and returned to the eamp.of Moroni.
And thus ended the twenty and fourth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. And
thus was the people ofMorianton brought back. And
upon their covenanting to keep the peace, they were
restored to the land of Morianton, and a union took
place between them and the people of Lehi; and they
were also restored to their lands. - j
And it came to pass that in the same year that the
people of Nephi bad peace restored unto them, that
Nephihah, the second chief judge, died, having filled
thejudgment seat with perfect uprightness before God;
nevertheless, he had refused Alma to take possession
ofthose records and those things which were esteem­
ed by Alma and his fathers to be most sacred; there­
fore Alma had conferred them upon his son Helaman.
Behold, it came to pass that the son of Nepbihah
was appointed to fill the judgment seat, in the stead
ofhis father; yea, he was appointed chief judge, and
governor over the people, with an oath, and sacred or­
dinance to judge righteously, and to keep the peace,
and the freedom of the people, and to grant unto them
their sacred privileges to worship the Lord their God;
yea, to support and maintain the cause of God all his
days, and to bring the wicked to justice, according to
their crime. Now behold, his name was Pahoran,—
AndPahoran did fill the seat of his father, and did com­
mence his reign in the end of the twenty and fourth
year, over the people of Nephi.
CHAPTER XXIII. ^
Asn now it came to pass in the commencement of
the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi, they having established
peace between the people of Lehi and the people of
Morianton concerning their lands, and having com­
menced the twentytand fifth year in peace; neverthe­
less, they did not long maintain au entire peace in the
land, for there began to be a contention amongthe
peopleL
concerning the chief judge, Pahoran; 'fordbe-'
l»ld, there were a pari of the people who desired that
a few particular points of the law should be,altered.—
388 BOOK OF ALMA.
But behold, Pahoran would not alter, nor suffer the
law to be altered; therefore he did not hearken to those
who had sent in their voices with their petitions, con­
cerning the altering of the law; therefore those who
were desirous that the law should be altered, were an­
gry with him, and desired that he should no longer be
chiefjudge over the land; therefore there arose a warm
dispute concerning the matter; but not unto blood­
shed. ' /;
And it came to pass that those who were desirous
that Pahoran should be dethroned from the judgment
seat, were called king-men, for they were desirous
that the law should be altered in a manner to over­
throw the free government, and to establish a king
over the land. And those who were desirous that Pa­
horan should remain chief judge over the land, took
upon them the name of freemen; and thus was the di­
vision among them: for the freemen had sworn or cov­
enanted to maintain their rights, and the privileges of
their religion, by a free government.
And it came to pass that this matter of their conten­
tion was settled, by the voice of the people. And it
came to pass that the voice of the people came in fa­
vor ofthe freemen, and Pahoran retained the judgment
seat, which caused much rejoicing among the brethren
of Pahoran, and also many of the people of liberty;
who also put the king-men to silence, that they durst
not oppose, but were obliged to maintain the cause of
freedom. Now those who were in favor of kings,
were those ofhigh birth; and they sought to be kings;
and they were supported by those who sought power
and authority over the people. But behold, this wi*
a critical time for such contentions to he among the
people of Nephi: for behold, Ainatiekiah had again
stirred up the hearts of the people of the Lamnnites,
against trie people ofthe Nephilc*. and he was gather­
ing together soldiers, from all parts of hi* land, and
arming them, and preparing for war, with all diligence;
for he had sworn to drink the blood of Moroni. But
behold, Tve shall see that his promise which lie m
o
d
e,
was rash; nevertheless, he did prepare himselfand his
armies, to come to battle against the Nophite*. Now
his armies were not so great as they hod hitherto been,
because ofthe many thousands who had b
eenslain b
y
the hand of the Nepbites; but notwithstanding their
great loss, Amalickiah bad gathered together a won­
derful great arm
y, insomuch that hefea
rednot toco
m
e
BOOK O FA L M A .
down to the land of Zatahemla. Yea, even Amalicki-
ah did himselfcome down, at the head of the Latnan-
iles. And it was in the twenty and fifth year of the
reign of the judges; and it was at the same time that
they had began to settle the atfairs of their contentions
concerning the chiefjudge,. Pahoran.
And it came to pass that when tiie men who were
called king-men, had heard that the Lamanites were
coming down to battle against them, they were glad
in their hearts, and they refused to take up arms; for
they were so wroth with the chiefjudge, and also with
the people of liberty, that they would not take up
arms to defend their country. And.it came to para
that when Moroni saw this, and also saw that the La-
manites were coining into the borders of the land, he
was exceeding wroth, because of the stubbornness of
those people, whotai he had labored with so much dili­
gence to preserve; yea, he was exceeding wroth; his
soulwas filled with anger against them. And it came
to pass that he sent a petition, with the voice of the
people, unto the governor of the land, desiring that he
should read it, and give him, (Moroni,) power to com­
pel those dissenters to defend their country, or to put
them to death; for it was his first care to put an end
to such contentions, and dissensions among the peo­
ple; for behold, this had been hitherto a cause of ait
their destruction. And it came to pass that it was
granted, according to tiie voice of the people.
And it came to pass that Moroni commanded that
his army should go against those king-men, to pull
down their pride and their nobility, and level them
with the earth, or they should take up arms and sup­
port the cause of liberty. And it came to pass that
the armies did march forth against them; and they did
pull down their* pride and their nobility, insomuch,
that as they did lift their weapons of war to fight
against the men of Moroni, they were hewn down,
and leveled to the earth. And it came to pass that
there were four thousand of those dissenters, who were
hewn down by the sword; and those of their leaders
who were not slain in battle, were taken and cast into
prison; for there was no time for their trials at this
period; and the remainder of those dissenters, rather
than to be smote down to the earth by the sword,
yielded to the standard of liberty, and weie compelled
to hoist the title of liberty upon their towers, and in
their cities; and to take up arms, in ^defence of their
390 BOOK OF ALMA.
country. And thus Moroni pat an end to those king,
men, that there were not any known by the appellation
ofking-men; and thus he put an end to the stubborn­
ness, and the pride of those people who professed the
blood of nobility; but they were brought down to
humble themselves like unto their brethren, and to
fight valiantly for their freedom from bondage.
Behold, it came to pass that while Moroni was thus
breaking down the wars and contentions among his
own people, and subjecting them to peace and civiliza­
tion, and making regulations to prepare for war against
the Lamauites, behold, the Lomanites had come into
the land of Moroni, which was in the borders by the
seashore.
And it came to pass that the Nephites were not suf­
ficiently strong in the city of Moroni; therefore Ama-
lickiah did drive them, slaying many. And it came
to pass that Amalickiah took possession of the city;
yea, possession of all their fortifications. And those
who fled out of the city of Moroni, came to the cityr
of Nephihah; and also the people of the city of Lehi
gathered themselves together, and made preparations,
and were ready to rective the Lamanites to battle.
But it came to pass that Amalickiah would not suf­
fer the Lamanites to go against the city of Nephihah
to battle, but kept them down by the seashore, leaving
men in every city to maintain and defend it; and thus
he went on, taking possession of many cities: the city
of Nephihah, and the city of Lehi, and the city of
Morianton, and the city of Omner, and the city of did,
and the city of Mulek, all of which were on the east
borders, by the seashore. .And thus had the Laman­
ites obtained, by the cunning of Amalickiah, so many
cities, by their numberless boasts, all of which were
strongly fortified, after the manner of the fortifications
of Moroni; all of which afforded strong holds for the
Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they marched to the bor­
ders of the land Bountiful, driving the Nephites before
them, and slaying many. But it came to pass that
they weremet by Teancum, who had slain Morianton,
and had headed his people in his flight. And it came
to passithat he headed Amalickiah also, and he was
inarching forth with bis numerous army, that lie might
take possession of the land Bountiful, and also lhe
land northward. ' But behold* he met with a disap­
pointment, ^by being repulsed by Teancum and his
BOOS OF ALSU.
men, for they, were great-warriors: for every man of
Teancurn did exceed the Lamanites in their strength,
and in their skill of war, insomuch that they did gain
advantage over the Lamanites, •
And it came to pass that'they did harrass them, in­
somuch that they did slay them even until it was dark.
And it came to pass that Teancum and his men did
pitch their tents in the borders of the land Bountiful;
and Amalickiah did pitch his tents in the borders on
the beach by the seashore, and after this manner were
they driven.
And it came to pass that when the night had come,
Teancum and his servant stole forth and went out by
night, and wentinto the camp of Amalickiah; and be­
hold, sleep had overpowered them, because of their
much fatigue, which was caused by the labors and heat
ofthe day.
And it came to pass that Teancum stole privily into
the tent of the king, and pm a javelin to his heart;
and he did cause the death of the king immediately,
that he did not awake his servants. And he returned
again privily2to his own camp, and behold, his men
were asleep; and he awoke them, and told them all
the things that he had done. And be caused that his
armies should stand in readiness, lest the Lamanites
had awoke, and should come upon them. And thus
ended the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi; and thus ended the
days of Amalickiah.
3 9 1
CHAPTER XXIV.
Ann now it came to pass in the twenty and sixth
yew of the reign of the judges over the people of Ne­
phi, behold, when the Lamanites awoke on the first
morning of the first month, behold, they found Ama­
lickiah was dead in his own tent; and they also saw
that Teancum was ready to give them battle on that
day. And now when the Lamanites saw this, they
were affrighted; and they abandoned their design in
marching into the land northward, and retreated with
all their army into the city, of Mulek, and sought pro­
tection in their fortifications. And it came to pass
392 BOOK OF ALMA.
that; the brother of Amalickiah was appointed king
over the people; and his name was Ammoron: thus
king Ammoron, the brother of king Amalickiah, was
appointed to reign in his stead.
And it came to pass that he did command that his
people should maintain those cities which they had ta­
ken by the shedding of blood; for they had not taken
any cities, save they had lost much blood. And now
Teancum saw that the Lamanites were determined to
maintain those cities which they had taken, and those
parts of the land which they had obtained possession
of; and also seeing the enormity of their number, Te­
ancum thought it was not expedient that be should at­
tempt to attack them in their forts; but he kept his
men round about, as if maki; g preparations for war;
yea, and truly he was preparing to defend himself
against them, by casting up walls round about, and
preparing places of resort.
And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for
war, until Moroni had sent a large number of men to
strengthen his army; and Moroni also sent Orders un­
to him, that he should retain all the prisoners who
fell into his hands; for as the Lamanites had taken
many prisoners, that he should retain all the prison­
ers of the Lamanites, as a ransom for those whom
the Lamanites had taken. And he also sent orders
unto him, that he should fortify the land Bountiful,
and secure the narrow pass which led into the land
northward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that
point, and should have power to harrass them on eve­
ry side. And Moroni also sent unto him, desiring
him that he would be faithful in maintaining that
quarter .of the land, and that he would seek every op­
portunity to scourge the Lamanites in that quarter, as
much as was in his power, that perhaps he might
take again, by stratagem or some other way, those
cities which had been taken out of their hands; and
that he also would fortify and strengthen tire cities
round about, which had not fallen into tire hands of
the Lamanites. And he also said unto him, 1 would
come unto you, but behold, the Lamanites are upon
us in the borders of the land by the west sea; and be­
hold, I go against them, therefore I cannot come unto
you. '
Now the king (Ammoron,) had departed out of the
land of Zarahemla, and had made known unloJthe
queen concerning' the death' of -his brother,1
'and had
BOOK OB ALMA. 3 9 3
gathered together a large number of men, and had
marched forth against the Nepbites, on the borders by
the west sea; and thus he was endeavoring to harrass
the Nephitee and to draw away a part of their forces
to that part of the land, while he had commanded
those whom he had left to possess the cities which he
had taken, that they should also harrass the Nepbites
on the borders by the east sea; and should take pos­
session of their lands as much as it was in their pow­
er, according to the power of their armies. And thus
were the Nepbites in those dangerous circumstances,
in the ending of the twenty and sixth year of the reign
ofthe judges over the people of Nephi.
But behold, it came to pass in the twenty and sev­
enth year of the reign of the judges, that Teancum,
bythe command of Moroni, who had established armies
to protect the south and the west borders of the land,
had began his march towards the land Bountiful, that
hemight assist Teancum with his men, in retaking the
cities which they had lost. And it came to pass that
Teancum had received orders to make an attack upon
the city of Muiek, and retake it if it were possible.
And it came to pass that Teancum made prepara­
tions to make an attack upon the city of Mutek, and
march forth with his army against the Lamanites; but
he saw that it was impossible that he could overpower
them while they were in their fortifications; therefore
he abandoned his designs, and returned again to the
city Bountiful, to wait for the coming of Moroni, that
he might receive strength to his army.
And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his
army to the land of Bountiful, in the latter end of the
twenty and seventh year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi. And in the commencement
ofthe twenty and eighth year, Moroni and Teancum,
and many ot the chiefcaptains, held a council of war,
what they should !do to cause the Lamanites to come
out against them to battle; or that they might by some
means, flatter them out of their strong holds, that they
might gain^advantage over them, and take again the
city of Muiek.
And it came to pass that they sent embassies to the
wmy of the Lamanites, which protected the city -of
Muiek, to their leader, whose name was Jacob, desiring
mm that he would come out with his armies to meet
them upon the plains, between the two cities. ' 'But
394 BOOK OF ALMA..
behold, Jacob, who was a Zoramite, would not come
out with his army to meet them upon the plains.
And it came to pass that Moroni, having no hopes
of meeting them upon fair grounds, therefore he re­
solved upon a plan that he might decoy the Lamanites
out of their strong holds. Therefore he caused that
Teancum should take a small number of men, and
march down near the seashore: and Moroni and his
army, by night, marched in the wilderness, on the west
of the city Mulek; and thus, on the morrow, when
the guards of the Lamanites had discovered Teancum,
they ran and told it unto Jacob, their leader.
And it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites
did march forth against Teancum, supposing by their
numbers to overpower Teancum, because of the small­
ness of his numbers. And as Teancum saw the ar­
mies of the Lamanites coming out against him, he
began to retreat down by the seashore, northward.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw
that he began to flee, they took courage and pursued
them with vigor. And while Teancum was thus lead­
ing away the Lamanites who were pursuing them in
vain, behold, Moroni commanded that a part of his ar­
my who were with him, should march forth into the
city, and lake possession of it. And thus they did,
and slew all those who had been lefl to protect the city;
yea, all those who would not yield up their weapons
of war. And thus Moroni had obtained possession of
the city Mulek, with a part of his army, while he
marched with the remainder to meet the Lamanites,
when they should return from the pursuit of Teancum.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue
Teancum until they came near the city Bountiful, and
then they were met byLehi, and a small army, which
had been left to protect the city Bountiful. And now
behold, when the chief captains of the Lamanites had
beheld Lehi, with his army, coming against them, they
fled in much confusion, lest perhaps they should not
obtain the city Mulek, before Lehi should overtake
them; for they were wearied because of their match,
and the men of Lehi were fresh. Now the Lamanites
did not know that Moroni had been in their rear with
his army; and all they feared, was Lehi and his men.
Now Lehi was not desirous to overtake them, till they
should meet Moroni and bie army. And it came to
pass that before the Lamanites had retreated far, they
were surrounded by the NepblteB; by the men of M
o*
roni on one hand, and the men of Lebi on the other,
all of whom were fresh and full of strength; but the
Lamanites were wearied, because of their long march.
And Moroni commanded his men that they should fall
upon them, until they had given up their weapons of
war. r
And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader,
being also a Zoramite, and having an unconquerable
spirit, he led the Lamanites forth to battle, with ex­
ceeding fury against Moroni. Moroni being in their
course of march, therefore Jacob was determined to
slay them, and cut Ins way through 1o the city of Mu*
lek. Butbehold, Moroni and his men were more pow­
erful; therefore they did not give way before the La­
manites.
And it came to pass that they fought on both hands
with exceeding fury; and there were many slain on
both sides; yea, and Moroni was wounded, and Jacob
was killed. And Lebi pressed upon their rear with
such fury, with his strong men, that the Lamanites in
the rear delivered up their weapons of war; and the
remainder of them, being much confused, knew not
whether to go or to strike. Now Moroni seeing their
confusion, he said unto them, if ye will bring forth
your weapons of war, and deliver them up, behold we
will forbear shedding your blood. And it came to pass
that when the Lamanites had heard these words, their
chiefcaptains, all those who were not slain, came forth
and threw down their weapons of war at the feet of
Moroni, and also commanded their men that they
should do the same; but behold, there were many that
would not; and those who would not deliver up their
swords, were taken and bound, and their weapons of
war were taken from them, and they were compelled
to march with their brethren forth into the land Boun­
tiful. And now the number of prisoners who were
taken, exceeded more than the number of those who
had been slain; yea, more than those who had been
*lain on both sides.
And it came to pass that they did set guards over
the prisoners of the Lamanites, and did compel them
togo forth and bury their dead; yea, and also the dead
of the Nephitea who were slain; and Moroni placed
"ten over them to guard them while they should per­
form their labors. And Moroni went to the city of
“ ulck^with-LBhi, and took command of the city, and
it unto Lehi.^ Now behold this Lehi was a man
HOOK OF A LU A t 3 3 5
396 BOOK OF ALMA.
who had been with Moroni in the more part of all his
battles; and he was a man like unto Moroni; and they
rejoiced in each other’s satiety; yea, they were beloved
4by each other, and also beloved by all-the. people of
Nephi.
And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had
finished burying their dead, and also the dead of the
Nephites, they were marched back into the land Boun­
tiful; and 'leancutu, by the orders of.Moroni, caused
that they should commence laboring in digging a ditch
round about the land, or the city Bountiful;, and he
caused that they should build a breastwork of timbers
upon the inner bank of the ditch; and they cast up dirt
out ofthe ditch against the breastwork of timbers; and
thus they did cause the Lamanites to labor, until they
had .encircled the city of Bountiful round about with a
strong wall of timbers and earth, to an exceeding
height, And this city became an exceeding strong
hold ever alter; and in this city they did guard the
prisoners of the Lamanites; yea, even within a wall,
which they had caused them to build with their own
hands. Mow Moroni was compelled to cause the La­
manites to labor, because it were easy to guard them
while at their labor; and he desired all his forces,
when he should make an attack upon the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Moroni had thus gained a
victory over one of the greatest of the armies of the
Lamanites, and had obtained possession of the city
Mulek, which was one of the strongest, holds of the
Lamanites in the land of Nephi; and thus.he had also
built a strong hold to retain his prisoners. And it
came to pass that he did uo more attempt a battle
with the Lamanites in that year, but he did employ
his men in preparing for tvar; yea, and in making for­
tifications to guard against the Lamanites; yea, and
also delivering their women and their children iromfam­
ine and affliction, and providing food for their armies-
And now it came to pass that the armies of the La­
manites, on the West Sea, south, while-in the absence
of Moroni, on account of some intrigue amongst the
Nephites, which caused dissensions amongst them,
had gained some ground over the Nephites, yea, inso­
much that they had obtained possession of a number of
their cities in that part of the land; und thus because
of iniquity amongst themselves, yea, because of dis­
sensions and intrigue among themelves, they were pla­
ced in the most dangerous;circumstances. :
BOO K,OF ALMA. 3 9 7
And now behold, I have somewhat to say concern­
ing the people of Ammon, who, in the begining, were
Lamanites; but by Ammon and his brethren, or rather
by the power and word of God, they had been convert­
ed unto the Lord; and they had been brought down
into the land of Zarahemla, and had ever since been
protected by the Nephites; and because of their oath,
they had been kept from taking up arms against their
brethren: for they had taken an oath, that they never
would shed blood more; and according to their oath,
they would have perished; yea, they would have suf­
fered themselves to have fallen into the hands of their
brethren, had it not been for the pity and the exceed­
ing love which Ammon and his brethren had had for
them; and for this cause, they were brought down
into the land of Zarahemla; and they ever had been
protected by the Nephites.
But it came to pass that when they saw the danger,
and the many afflictions and tribulations which the
Nephites bore for them, they were moved with com­
passion, and were desirous to take up arms in the de­
fenceof their country. But behold, as they were about
to lake their weapons of war, tiiey were overpowered
by the persuasions of flelaman and bis brethren, for
they were about to break the oath which they had
made; and Helamen feared lest by so doing, they
should lose their souls; therefore alt those who had
entered into this covenant; were compelled to behold
their brethren wade through their afflictions, in their
dangerous circumstances, at this time. But behold,
it came to*pass they had many sons, who had not en­
tered into a covenant that they would not take their
weapons of war to defend themselves against their
enemies; therefore they did assemble themselves to­
gether at this time, as many as were able to take up
arms; and they called themselves Nephites; and they*,
entered into a covenant, to fight for the liberty of the
Nephites; yea, to protect the land unto the laying
down of their lives; yea, even they covenanted that
they never would give up their liberty, but they would
fight in all cases to protect the Nephites and them­
selves from bondage.
Now behold, there were two thousand of those
young men who entered into this covenant, and took
their weapons of war to defend their country. And
now behold, as they never had hitherto been a disad­
vantage to the Nephites, they became now at this pe­
398 BOOK OF ALMA.
riod of time also a great support; for they took their
weapons of war, and they would that Helaman should
be their leader. And they were all young men, and
they were exceeding valiant for courage, and also for
strength and activity; but behold, this was not all:
they were men who were true at all times in whatso­
ever thing they were entrusted; yea, they were men
of truth and soberness, for they had been taught to
keep the commandments of God, and to walk upright­
ly before him.
And now it came to pass that Helaman did march
at the head of his two thousand stripling soldiers, to
the support of the people in the borders of the land on
the south by the West Sea. And thus ended the
twenty and eighth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi, &c.
CHAPTER XXV.
Ann now it came to pass in the twenty and ninth
year of the judges, that Ammoron sent unto Moroni,
desiring that he would exchange prisoners. And it
came to pass that Moroni felt to rejoice exceedingly
at this request, for he desired,the provisions which were
imparled for the support of the Lamanite prisoners,
for the support of his own people; and he also desired
his own people for the strengthening of his army.
Now the Lamanites had taken many women and'chil-
dren; and there was not a woman nor a child among
all the prisoners of Moroni, or the prisoners whom
Moroni had taken; therefore Moroni resolved upon a
stratagem, to obtain as many prisoners of the Nephites
from the Lamanites, as it were possible; therefore he
wrote an epistle, and sent it by the servant of Atnmo-
ron, the same who had brought an epistle to Moroni.
Now these are the words which he wrote unto Ammo-
ron, saying, behold, Ammoron, I have written unto
you somewhat concerning this war which ye'have
waged against my people, or rather which thy brother
hath waged against them, and which ye are still de­
termined to carry on after his death. Behold,. I would
tell you somethmg concerning the justice of God, and
tiie. sword ofe his Almighty wrath, 4which?doth hang
BOOK OF AMLA. 399
over you, except ye repent and withdraw your armies
into your own lands, or the lands of your possessions,
which is the land of Nephi; yea, 1 would tell you
these things, if ye were capable of hearkening unto
them; yea, I would tell you concerning that awful
hell that awaits to receive such murderers as thou and
thy brother have been, except ye repent and withdraw
your murderous purposes, and return..with your ar­
mies to your own lands; but as ye have rejected these
things, and have fought against the people of the Lord,
oven so 1 may expect you will do it again.
And now behold, we are prepared to receive you;
yea, and except you withdraw your purposes, behold,
ye will pull dawn the wrath of that God whom you
have rejected, upon you, even to your utter destruc­
tion; but as the Lord liveth, our armies Bhall come
upon you, except ye withdraw, and ye shall soon be
visited with death, for we will retain our cities and our
lands; yea, and we will maintain our religion and the
cause of our God. But behold, it supposeth me that
I talk to you concerning these things in vain; or it
supposeth me that thou art a child of hell; therefore 1
will close my epistle, by telling you that I will not ex­
change prisoners, save it be on conditions that ye will
deliver up a man, and his wife, and his children, for
one prisoner; if tins be the case that ye will do it, 1 will
exchange. And behold, if ye do not this, I will come
against you with my armies; yea, even I will arm my
women and my children, and I will come against you,
and I will follow you even into your own land, which
is the land of our first inheritance; yea, and it shall
be blood for blood; yea, life for life; and 1 will give
you battle, even until you are destroyed from off the
face of the earth. Behold, I am in my anger, and also
my people; ye have Bought to murder us, and we have
only sought to defend ourselves. But behold, if ye
seek to destroy us more, we will seek to destroy you;
yea, and we willseek our land of our first inheritance.
Now I close my epistle. I am Moroni; I am a leader
of the people of the Nephites.
Now it came to pass that Ammoron, when he had
received this epistle, he was angry; and he wrote
another epistle unto Moroni; and tiiese are the words
which he wrote, saying, 1 am Annnoron, the king of
the Lamanites; I am the brother ofAmaliekiah, whom
ye have murdered. Behold, I will avenge his blood
upon you; yea, and I will come upon !
you with my
400 BOOS OF ALMA.
armies, for I fear not your threatnings. For behold,
your fathers did wrong their brethren, insomuch that
they did rob them of their right to the government,
when it rightly belonged unto them. And now be­
hold, if ye will lay down your arms, and subject your­
selves to be governed by those to whom the govern­
ment doth rightly belong, then will I cause that my
people shall lay down their weapons, and shall be at
war no more. Behold, ye have breathed out many
threatnings against me and my people: but behold,
we fear not your threatnings; nevertheless, I will
grant to exchange prisoners according to your request,
gladly, that I may preserve imy food for my men of
war; and we will wage a war which shall be eternal,
either to the subjecting the Nepbites to our au­
thority, or to their eternal extinction. And as con­
cerning that God whom ye say we have rejected, be­
hold, we know not such a being; neither do ye; but if
it so be that there is such a being, we know not but
that he hath made us as well as you; and if it so be
that there is a devil and a hell, behold, will he not send
you there, to dwell with my brother, whom ye have
murdered, whom ye have hinted that he hath gone to
such a place? But behold, these things mattereth not.
1 am Ammoron, and a descendant of Zoram, whom
your fathers pressed and brought out of Jerusalem.
And behold, now, I am a bold Lamanite. Behold,
this war hath been waged, to avenge their wrongs,
and to maintain, and to obtain their rights to the
government; and I close my epistle to Moroni.
Now it came to pass that when Moroni had received
this epistle, he was more angry, because he knew that
Ammoron had a perfect knowledge of his fraud; yea,
he knew that Ammoron knew that it was not a just
cause that had caused him to wage a war against the
people of Nephi. And he said behold, I will not ex­
change prisoners with Ammoron, save he will with­
draw his purpose, as I have stated in my epistle; for
I will not grant unto him that he shall have any more
power than what he hath got. Behold, 1 know the
place where the Lamanites doth guard my people,
whom they have taken prisoners; and as Ammoron
would not grant unto me mine epistle, behold, I will
give unto nim according to my words; yea, I will
seek death among them, until they shall sue for peace.
And now it eameito pass;that when Moroni had said
these words, he cause that a search should be made
BOOK OP ALMA, 401
among his men, that perhaps he might find a maft
who was a descendant of Laman among them.
And it came to pass that they found one, whose
name was Laman; and he was one of the servants tff
the king who was murdered by Amalickiah. Now
Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his
men, should go forth unto the guards who were over
the Nephites. Now the Nephites weie guarded in the
city of Gid; therefore Moroni appointed Laman and
caused that a small number of men should go with
him.
And when it was evening, Laman went to the guards
who were over the Nephites, and behold, they saw
him coming, and they hailed him. But he saith unto
them, fear not. Behold, I am a Lamanite. Behold,
we have escaped from the Nephites, and they sleepeth;
and behold, we have took of their wine, and brought
with us. Now,when the Lamanites heard these words,
they received him with joy. And they said unto him,
give us of your wine, that we may drink; we are glad
that ye have thus taken wine with you, for we are
weary. But Laman said unto them, let us keep of
our wine till We go against the Nephites -to battle.
But this saying only made them more desirous to
drinkofthe wine. For, said they, we are weary; there­
fore let us take of the wine, and by and by we shall
receive Wine for our rations, which will strengthen us
to go against the Nephites. And Laman said unto
them, you may do according to your desires. And it
came to pass that they did take ofthe wine freely, and
it was pleasant to their taste; therefore they took of
it more freely; and it was strong, having been prepaired
in its strength.
And it came to pass they did drink and were merry,
and by and By they were all drunken. And now
when Laman and his men saw that they were all
drunken, and were in a deep sleep, they rerurned to
Moroni, and told him all the things that had happened.
And now, this was-nceording to the design of Moroni.
And Moroni had prepared his men with weapons of
war; and he sent to the city Gid, while the Lamanites
were in a deep sleep, and drunken, and cast in' the
Weapons of war in unto' the prisoners, insomuch that
they were all armed; yea, even to their women, and
all those of their children, as many as were able to dee
a weapon of War; when Moroni had armed all those
402 BOOK OF A hM A .
prisoners.. And all those things were done in a pro-
found silence. But had they awoke the Lamanites,
behold they weredrukeri, and the Nephites could have
slain them. But behold this was not the desire of Mo­
roni. He did not delight in murder or bloodshed; but
he delighted in the saving of his people from destruc­
tion; and for this cause he might not bring upon him
injustice, he would not fell upon the Lamanites and
destroy them in their drunkenness. But lie had ob­
tained his desires; for he had armed those prisoners of
the Nephites who were within the wall of the city,
and had gave them power to gain possession of those
parts which were within the walls; and then he caused
the men who were with him, to withdraw a pace from
them, and surround the armies ofthe Lamanites. Now
behold, this was done in the night time, so that when
the Lamanites awoke in the morning, they beheld that
they were surrounded by the Nephites without, and
that their prisoners were armed within. And thus
they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and
in these circumstances they found that it was not ex­
pedient thatihey should fight with the Nephites; there­
fore their chief captains demanded their weapons of
war, and they brought them forth, and cast them at
the feet of the Nephites, pleading for mercy. Now
behold, this was the desire of Moroni. He took them
prisoners of war, and took possession of the city, and
caused that all the prisoners should be liberated, who
were Nephites; and they did join the army of Moroni,
and were a great strength to his army.
And it cam^ to pass that he did cause the Lamanites
whom he had taken prisoners, that they should com­
mence a labor in strengthening the fortifications round
about the city Gid. And it. came to pass that when
he had fortified the city Gid, according to his desires,
he caused that his prisoners should be taken to the
city Bountiful. And he also guarded that city with
„ an exceeding strong force. And it came to pass that
they did, notwithstanding all the intriguer of the La­
manites, keep and protect all the prisoners whom they
had taken, and also maintain all the ground and the
advantage which they had retaken. And it came to
pass that the Nephites began again to be victorious,
and to reclaim their rights and their privileges. Many
times did the Lamanites attempt to encircle rthem
about by night, but in these-attempts they did lose
many prisoners. And many times did they attempt
BOOK OF ALMA. 403
to administer of their wine to the Nephites, that they
might destroy them with poison or with drunkenness.
But behold, the Nephites were not slow to remember
the Lord their God, in this their times of affliction.
They could not be taken in their snares; yea, they
would not partake of their wine, save they had firstly
given to some of the Lamanite prisoners. And they
were thus cautious, that no poison should be adminis­
tered among them; for if their wine would poison a
Lamanite, it would also poison a Nephite; and thus
they did try all their liquors. And now it came to
pass that it wag expedient for Moroni to make prepa­
rations to attack the city Morianton. For behold, the
Laraaniles had, by their labors, fortified the city Mo­
rianton until it had become an exceeding strong hold?
and they were continually bringing new forces into
that city, and also new supplies of provisions. And
thus ended the twenty and ninth year of the reign of
the judges over the people ofNephi.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Ann now it came to pass in the commencement of
the thirtieth year of the reign of the judges, in the
second day, on the first month, Moroni received an
epistle from Helaman, stating the affairs of the people
in that quarter of the land. And these are the' words
which he wrote, saying, my dearly beloved brother,
Moroni, as well in the Lord as in the tribulations of
our warfare; behold, my beloved brother, I have some­
what to tell you concerning our warfare in this part
ofthe land. Behold, two thousand of the sons of those
men whom Ammon brought down out of the land of
Nephi. Now ye have known that these were a de­
scendant of Laman, who was the eldest son of our
father Lehi. 'Now I need not rehearse unto you con­
cerning their1traditions or their unbelief, tor thou
knowest concerning all these things; therefore it sup-
poseth me that I tell you that two thousand of these
young men have taken their weapons of war, and
would that I should betheir leader;*and we have come
forth to defend our country. ” And now ye also know
concerning the covenant which "their fathers made,
404>.
that they would not take up their, weapons of war
against their brethren, to shed blood. But in the
twenty and sixth year, when they saw our afflictions
and our tribulations for them, they were about to break
the covenant which they had made, and take up their
weapons of war in our defence. But I would not suffer
them that they should break this covenant which they
had made, supposing that God would strengthen us,
insomuch that we should not suffer more because of
the fulfilling the oath which they had taken. But her
hold, here is one thing in which we may have great
joy. For behold, in the twenty and sixth year, I He-
laman, did march at the head of these two thousand
young men, to the city of Judea, to assist Antipus,
whom ye had appointed a leader over the people of
that part of the land. And I did join my two thou*
sand sons, (for they are worthy to be called sons) to
the army of Antipus; in which strength Antipus did
rejoice exceedingly; for behold, his army had been re­
duced by the Lamanites because their forces had slain
a vast number of our men; for which cause we have to
mourn. Nevertheless, vre may console ourselves in
this point; that they have died in the cause of their
country and of their God; yea, and they are happy.
And the Lamanites had also retained many prisoners,
all of whom are chief captains; for none other have
they spared alive. And we suppose that they are
now at this lime in the land of Nepbi; it is so if they
are not slain. And now these are the cities which the
Lamanites have obtained possession, by the shedding
of the blood of so many of our valiant men: The land
of Manti, or the city of jVJanti, and the city of Zeez-
rom, and the city of Curoeni, and the city of Antipa-
rah. And these are the cities which they possessed
when f arrived at the city, pf Judea; and I found An­
tipus and his men toiling with their mights to fortify
the city; yea, and they were depressed in body as well
as in spirit; for they had fought valiantly by day, and
toiled by night, to maintain their cities; and thus
they had suffered great afhictjonsof every kind. And
now they were determined to conquer in this place, or
die; therefore you may well suppose that this little
force which I brought with me; yea, those sons of
mine, gave them great hopes and much joy.
And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites
saw that Antipus had received a greater strength to
jhia army, they,were ,c<mipeB;e$!,by the qrdfiWof Am-
BOOK OF ALMA.
BOOK OF ALMA.
moron, to not come against the city of Judea, or
against us, to battle. And thus were we favored of
the Lord: for had they come upon us in this our
weakness, they might have perhaps destroyed our lit­
tle army; but thus were we preserved. They were
commanded by Ammoron to maintain those cities
which they had taken. And thus ended the twenty
and sixth year. And in the commencement of the
twenty and seventh year, we had prepared our city
and ourselves for defence. Now we were desirous
that the Lamanites should-coroe upon us; for we were
not desirous to make an attack upon them in their
strong holds. And it came to pass that we kept spies
out round about, to watch the movements of the La­
manites, that they might not pass us by night, nor by
day, tomake an attack upon ourother cities, which were
on the northward; for we knew in those cities they
were not sufficiently strong to meet them; therefore
we were desirous, if they should pass by us, to fall
upon them in their rear, and thus bring them up in
the rear, at the same time they were met in the front.
V
V
esupposed that we could overpower them; but be­
hold, we were disappointed in this our desire. They
durst not pass by us with their whole army; neither
durst they with a part, lest they should not be suffi­
ciently strong, and they should fall. Neither durst
they march do.wn against the city of Zarahemla;
neither duist they cross the head of Sidon, over to the
city of Nephihah. And thus, with their forces, they
were determined to maintain those cities which they
had taken.
And now it came to pass, in the second month of
this year, there was brought unto us many provisions,
from the fathers of those my two thousand sons. And
also there was sent two thousand men unto us, from
the land of Zarahemla, And thus we were prepared
with ten thousand men, and provisions for them, and
also.for their wives, and their children. And the La­
manites, thus seeing our forces increase daily, and
provisions arrive for our support, they began to be
fearful, and began to sally forth, if it were possible, to
Put an end to our receiving provisions and strength.
Now when we saw that the Lamanites began to grow
Uneasy on this wise, we were desirous to bring a strat-
agem into effect upon them; therefore Antipus order­
ed that I should inarch forth With my little sons, to a
neighboring city, os ff we were carrying provisions to
405
406 BOOS OF ALHA.
a neighboring city. And we were to march near the
city of Antiparah, as if we were going to the city be­
yond, in the borders by the seashore. And it came
to pass that we did march forth, as if with our provis­
ions, to go to that city. And it came to pass that
Antipus did march forth, with a part of his army,
leaving the remainder to maintain the city; But he
did not march forth, until I had gone forth with my
little army, and came near the city Antiparah. And
now in the city Antiparah, were stationed the strong­
est army of the Lamanites; yea, the most numerous.
And it came to pass that when they had been inform­
ed by their spies, they came forth with their army,
and marched against us.
And it came, to pass that we did flee before them,
northward. And thus we did lead away the most
powerful army of the Lamanites; yea, even to a con­
siderable distance, insomuch that when they saw the
army of .Antipus pursuing them, with their mights,
they did not turn to the right nor to the left, but pur­
sued their march in a straight course after us: and,
as we supposed, it was their intent to stay us before
Antipus should overtake them, and this that they
might not be surrounded by our people. And now
Antipus, beholding our danger, did speed the march
of hie army. But behold, it was night; therefore they
did not overtake us, neither did Antipus overtake
them; therefore we did camp for the night.
And it came to pass that before the dawn of the
morning, behold, the Lamanites were pursuing us.—
Now we were not sufficiently strong to contend with
them; yea, I would not suffer that my little sons
should fall into their hands; therefore we did continue
our march; and we took our march into the wilder­
ness, Now they durst not turn to the right nor to
the left, lest they should be surrounded: neither would
I turn to the right or to the left, lest they should over­
take me, and we could not stand against them, but be
slain, and they would make their escape; and thus we
did flee all that day into the wilderness, even until it
was dark.
And it came to pass that again when the light of
the morning came, we saw the Lamanites upon us,
and we did flee before them. But it came to pass that
they did not pursue jus far, before they haUed; and it
was in the morning of the third day, oh the seventh
month. And- how whether they'were overtaken by
BOOK OF ALMA. 407
Antipus,'we knew not; but I said unto my men, be­
hold, we know not but they have halted for the pur­
pose that we should come against them, that they
might catch us in their snare; therefore what say ye;
my sons, will ye go against them to battle? And
now I say unto you my beloved brother Moroni, that
never had I seen so great courage, nay, not amongst
all the Nephites. For as I had ever called them my
sons, (for they were all of them very young,) even so
they said unto me, father, hehold, our God is with us,
and he will not suffer that we shall fall; then let us
go forth; we would not slay our brethren, if they
would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they
should overpower the army of Antipus* Now they
never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and
they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers,
than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been
taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt,
that God would deliver; them. A.na they rehearsed
unto me the words of their mothers, saying, we do not
doubt our mothers knew it.
And it came to pass that I did return with my two
thousand, against these Lamanites who had pursued
us. And now behold, the armies of Antipus had over­
taken them, and a terrible battle had commenced.—
The army of Antipus being weary, because of their
long march in so short a space of time, were about to
fall into the hands of the Lamanites; and had I not
returned with my two thousand, they would have ob­
tained their purpose; for Antipus had fallen by the
sword, and many of his leaders, because of their wea­
riness, which was occasioned by the speed of their
march; therefore the men of Antipus being confused,
because of the fall of their leaders, began to give way
before the Lamanites.
. And it came to pass that the Lamanites took cour­
age, and began to pursue them; and thus were the
Lamanites pursuing them with great vigor, when He-
laman came upon their rear with his two thousand,
and began to slay them exceedingly, insomuch that
the whole army of the Lamanites halted, and turned
upon Helaman. Now when the people of Antipus
saw that the Lamanites had turned them about, they
leathered together their men, and came again upon the
rear of the Lamanites. , .
And now it came to pass that we, the people of Ne-
phi, the people of Antipus, and I with my two thou-
408
■and, did surround the Lamanites, and did slay them;
yea, insomuch that they were compelled to deliver up
their weapons of war, and also themselves as prison­
ers of war.
And now it came to pass that when they had sur­
rendered themselves up unto us, behold, 1 numbered
those young men who had fought with me, fearing
test there were many of them slain. Blit behold, to
tny great joy, there had not one soul of them fallen fo
the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the
strength of God; yea, never was men known to have
fought with such miraculous strength; and with suck
mighty power did they fall Upon the Lamanites, that
they did frighten them; and for this cause did the
Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners of war.
And as we had no place for our prisoners, that we
could guard them to keep them from the armies of the
Lamanites, therefore we sent them to the land of Za-
rahemla, and a part of those men who were not slain
of Antipus, with them; and the remainder I took and
joined them to my stripling Ammorites, and took her
inarch back to the city of Judea.
And now it came to pass that I received an epistle
from Ammoron, the king, stating that if I would de­
liver up those prisoners of war whom we had taken,
that he would deliver up the city of Anliparah UDto
us. But I sent an epistle unto the king, that w
e
were sure our forces were sufficient to lake the city of
Antiparah by our force; and by delivering up the pris­
oners for that city, we should suppose dufselves un­
wise, and that we would only deliver up our prisoners
on exchange. And Ammoron refused mine epistle,
for lie would not exchange prisoners; therefore we be­
gan to make preparations to go against the city of
Antiparah. But the people of Antiparah did leave
the city, and fled to their other cities which they had
possession of, to fortify them; and thus the city of
Antiparah fell into our hands. And thus ended the
twenty and eighth year of the reign of the judges.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of
the twenty and ninth year, we received a supply of
provisions, and also an addition to our army, from the
land of Zarahemla, arid from the land round about, to
the number of six thousand men, besides sixty of fie
sons of the Ammorites,'who had come to'join their
brethren, my little band of two thousand. And now
BOOK OF ALMA,
behold, we were strong; yea, and we had also a plen­
ty of provisions brought unto us.
And it came to pass that it was our desire to wage
a battle with the army which was placed to protect
the city Gunjeni. And now behold, 1 will shew unto
you that we soon accomplished our desire; yea, with
our strong force, or with a part of our strong force,
we did surround, by night, the city Cumeni, a little
before they were to receive a supply of provisions.—
And it came to pass that we “
did camp round about
the city for many nights; but we did sleep upon our
swordSj and keep guards, that the Lamanites could
not come upon us by night, and slay us, which they
attempted many times; but as many times as they at­
tempted this, their blood was spilt. At length their
provisions did arrive, and they were about to enter
the city by night. And we, instead of being Laman-
ites, were Nephites; therefore, we did take them and
their provisions. And notwithstanding the Laman-
ites being cut off from their support alter this man­
ner, they were still determined to maintain the city;
therefore it became expedient that we should take
those provisions and send them to Judea and pur pris­
oners to the land of Zaraltemla. »
And it came to pass that not many days had passed
away, before the Lamanites began to lose all hopes of
! succor; therefore they yielded up the city into our
hands; and thus we had accomplished our designs, in
obtaining the city Cumeni. But it came to pass that
| oar prisoners were so numerous, that notwithstanding
the enormity of our numbers, we were obliged to em­
ploy alt our force to keep them, or to put them to
death. For behold, they would break out in great
numbers, and would fight with stones, and with clubs,
or whatsoever things they could get into their hands,
insomuch that we did slay upwards of two thousand
ofthem, after they had surrendered themselves pris­
oners of war; therefore it became expedient for us,
that we should1put an end to their lives, or guard
them, sword in hand, down to the land of Zaraliemla;
and also our provisions were not any more than suffi­
cient for our own people, notwithstanding that which
we had -taken From the Lamanites. And now, in
thosecritical circumstances, it became a very serious
matter to determine concerning these prisoners of war;
nevertheless, we did resolve to send them down to the
‘e t v ••
BOOK or ALMA. 409
410 BOO& Of: A t HA.
land of Zarahernia; therefore we selected a part of our
men, and gave them charge over our prisoners, to go
down to the land of Zarabemla.
But it came to pass tliat on the morrow, they did
return. And now behold, we did not inquire of them
concerning the prisoners; for behold, the Lamanites
were upon us, and they returned in season to save us
from falling into their hands. For behold, Ammoron
had-sent to their support a new Supply ,of provisions,
and also a numerous army of mem
And it came to pass that those men whom we sent
With the prisoners, did arrive in season to check them,
as they were about to overpower us. But behold, my
little band of two thousand and sixty, fought most
desperately; yea, they were firm before the Laman­
ites, and did administer death unto ail those whoop-
posed them; and as the remainder of our army were
about to give way before the Lamanites, behold, those
two thousand and sixty were firm and undaunted:
yea, and they did obey and observe to perform every
word of command with exactness; yea, and even ac­
cording to their faith, it was done unto them; and I
did remember the words which they said unto me that
their mothers had taught them. And now behold, it
was these, my sons, and those men who had been se-
lectedi to convey the prisoners, to whom we owe this
great victory; for it was they who did beat the La-
maniles; therefore they were driven back to the city
of Manti. And we retained our oity Cumeni, and
were not all destroyed by the sword; nevertheless, we ,
had suffered great loss. '
And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had
fled, I immediately gave orders that my men who had
been wounded, should be taken from among the dead,
and caused that their wounds should be dressed. And
it came to pass that there were two hundred, oat of
my two thousand and sixty, who had fainted because
of the J o b s of blood; nevertheless, according to the I
goodness of God, and to our great astonishment, and
also the foes of our whole army, there was not one I
soul of them who did perish; yea, and neither was \
there one soul among them who had not received |
many wounds, And now, their preservation was as­
tonishing to our whole army ; yea, that they should
be spared, while there was a thousand of our brethren
who were slain.'•And wfl. do jpstly .ascribe-it to the
miraculous power of God,^because of their exceeding
faith in that which they had been taught to believe,
that there was a just God; and whosoever did not
doubt, that they should be preserved by his marvel­
ous power. Now this was the faith of these of whom
I have spoken; they are young, and their minds are
firm; and they do put their trust in God continually.
And now it came to pass that after we had thus
taken care of our wounded men, and had buried our
dead, and also the dead of the Lamanites, who were
many, behold, we did inquire of Gid concerning the
f»risoners whom they had started to go down to the
and of Zarahemla with. Now Gid was the chief
captain over the band who was appointed to guard
them down to the land. And now, these are the
words which Gid said unto me, behold, we did start
to go down to the land of Zarahemla, with our pris­
oners. And it came to pass that we did meet the
spies of our armies, who had been sent out to watch
the camp of the Lamanites. And they cried unto us,
saying, behold, the armies of the Lamanites are
marching towards the city of Cumeni; and behold,
they will fall upon them, yea, and mil destroy our
people.
And it came to pass that our prisoners did hear
their cries, which caused them to take courage; and
they did rise up in rebellion against us. And it came
to pass because of their rebellion, we did cause that
our swords should come upon them. And it came to
pass that they did, in a body, run upon our swords,
in the which, the greater number of them were slain;
and the remainder of them broke through and fled
from us. And behold, when they had fled, and we
could not overtake them, we took our march with
speed towards the city Cumeni; and behold, we did
arrive in time that we might assist our brethren in
preserving the city. And behold, we are again deliv­
ered out of the hands of our enemies. And blessed is
the name of our God: for behold, it is he that has
delivered us; yea, that has done this great thing for
v L
,> - ^ .
Now it came to pass that when I, Helaman, had
heard these words of Gid, I was filled with exceeding
joy, because of the goodness of God in preserving us/
that we might not all perish; yea, and I trust that
tlw souls of them >who have been slain, have entered
into the rest of their God. > :
BOOK OF ALMA. 4 1 1
412 BOOK 0 9 jiX'KAv
And behold,-now it came to'pass that our next ob­
ject was to obtain the city of Mahti; but behold, there
was no way that we could lead them out of the city,
by our small bands. For behold they remembered
that which we had hitherto done; therefore we could
not decoy them away’from their strong holds; and
they were so much more numerous than was onr army,
that we durst not go forth and attack them in their
strongholds. Yea, and it became expedient that we
should employ our men, to the maintaining those
parts of the land, of the which we had retained of our
possessions; therefore it became expedient that we
should wait, that vie might receive more strength from
the land of Zarahemla, and also a new supply of pro­
visions.
And it came to pass that I thus did send an embas­
sy to the governor of our land, to acquaint him con­
cerning the affairs of our people. And it came to
pass that we did wait to receive provisions and
strength, from the 'land of Zarahemla. lint behold,
this did not profit us but little: for the Lamanites
were also receiving great strength, from day to day,
and also many provisions; and thus were our circum­
stances at this period of time. And the Lamanites
were sallying forth against us, from time to lime, re­
solving by stratagem, to destroy us; nevertheless, we
could not come to battle with them, because of their
retreats and their strong holds.
And it caine to pass that we did wait in these diffi­
cult circumstances, for the space of many months,
even until we wore about to perisli for the want of
food. But it came to pass that we did receive-food,
which was guarded to us by an army of two thousand
men, to our assistance; and this is all the assistance
which we did receive, to defend ourselves and onr
country from falling into the hands of our enemies;
yea, to contend with an enemy which was innumera­
ble. And now the cause of these our embarrassments,
or the cause why they did notsend more strength un­
to us, we knew not: therefore we were grieved, and
also filled with fear, lest by any means the judgments
of God should come upon our land, to our overthrow
and utter destruction; therefore we did pour out our
souls in prayer to God, that he would strengthen us
and deliver us out of the hartds Of our enemies; yea,
and also give us strength, that we‘might! retain our
icities, ana our lands, and our possessions, for the sup­
BOOK 0 1 AtM A ; 413
port of our people. Yea, and it came to pass that
the Lord our God did visit us with assurances, that
he would deliver us; yea, insomuch that he did speak
peace to our souls, and did grant unto us great faith,
and did cause us that we should hope for our de­
liverance in him; and we did take courage with our
small force which we l*d‘recived, and were fixed withr
a determination to conquer our enemies, and to main­
tain our lands, and our possessions, and our wives*
and our children, and the cause of our liberty. And
thus we did go forth with all our might against the
Lamanites, who were in the city of Manti; and we
did pitch our tents by the wilderness side, which wis
near to the city. . And it came to pass that on the
morrow, that when the Lamanites saw that we were
in the borders by the wilderness which was near the
city, that they sent out their spies round about us, that
they might discover the number and the strength of
our army.
And it came to pass that when they saw that we
were not strong, according to our numbers, and fear­
ing that we should cut them off from their support*
except they should come out to battle^against us, and
kill us, and also supposing that they could easily des­
troy us with their numerous hosts, therefore they be­
gan to make preparations ?to come out against us to
battle. And when we saw that they were making
preparations to come out against us, behold, I caused
that Gid, with a small number of men, should secrete
himself in the wilderness, and also that Teomner
should, with a smalt number of men, secrete them­
selves also'in the wilderness. Now Gid and his men
were on the right, anti the others on ihe left; and
when they had thus secreted themselves,' behold, I re­
mained with the remainder of my army, in that same
place where we had first pitched our tents, against
the time that the Lamanites should come out to bat­
tle.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come
out with their numerous army against us. And when
they had come and were about to fall upon us with
the sword, I caused that my men, those-who were
with me, should retreat into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did follow
after us with great speed, for they were exceedingly
deairoushto overtake us, that ‘they might slay us;
therefore they did follow us into the wilderness;”and
414 BOOK OF ALM1.
we.did pass by in the midst of Gid and Teomner, in­
somuch that they were not discovered by the Laman-
ites.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had
passed by, or when the army had passed by, Gid and
Teomner did rise up from their secret places, and did
cut oft' the, spies of the Lari||riitcs, that they should
not return to the city. And it came to pass that
when they had cut them oft’
, they ran to the city, and
fell upon the guards who were left to guard the city,
insomuch that they did destroy them, and did take
possession of the city. Now this was done because
the Lamanites did suffer their whole army, save a few
guards only, to be led away into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that Gid and Teomner, by this
means, had obtained possession of their strong holds.
And it came to pass that we took our course, after
having travelled much in the wilderness, towards the
land of Zarahemla. And when the Lamanites saw
that they were marching towards the land of Zara­
hemla, they were exceeding fraid, lest there was a
plan laid to lead them on to destruction; therefore
they began to retreat into the wilderness again, yea,
even back by the same way which they had came.—
And behold, it was night, and they did pitch their
tents; for the chief captains of the Lamanites bad
supposed that the Nephites were weary, because of
their march; and supposing that they had driven their
whole army, therefore they look no thought concern­
ing the city of Manti.
Now it came to pass that when it was night, that I
caused that my men should not sleep, but that they
should march forward, by another way, towards the
land of Manti. And because of this our march in the
night time, behold, on the morrow, we were beyond
the Lamanites, insomuch that we did arrive before
them to the city of Manti. And thus it came to pas»,
that by this stalagcm, we did take possession of the
city of Manti, without the shedding of blood.
And it came to pass that when the armies of the
Lamanites did arrive near the city, and saw that we
were prepared to meet ,them, they were astonished
exceedingly, and struck with great fear, insomuch
that they,did flee into the wilderness. Yea, and it
came: to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did
flee out,of all this quarter of lhe jand. ButPbehwd,
they have,carried; with .them many women and child*
BOOK OF ALMA. 415
ren out of the land. And those cities which had been
taken by the Lamanites, all of them are at this period
of lime in our possession; and our fathers, and our
women, and our children, are returning to their
homes, all save it be those who have been taken pris­
oners and carried oft' by the Lamanites. But behold,
our armies are small, to maintain so great a number
of cities, and so great possessions. But behold, we
trust that our God, who has given us victory over
those lands, insomuch that we have obtained those
cities and those lands, which were our own. Now
we do not know the cause that the government does
not grant us more strength; neither do those men
who came up unto us, know why we have not receiv­
ed greater strength. Behold, we do not know but
what yc are unsuccessful, and ye have drawn away
the forces into that quarter of the land; if so, we do
not desire to murmur. And if it is not so, behold, we
fear that there is some faction in the government,
that they do not send more men to our assistance;
for we know that they are more numerous than that
which they have sent. But behold, it mattereth not;
we trust God will deliver us, notwithstanding the
weakness of onr armies, yea, and deliver us out of the
hands of our enemies. Behold, this is the twenty
and ninth year, in the latter end, and we are in the
possession of our lands; and the Lamanites have fled
to the land of Nephi. And those sons of the people
of Ammon of whom I have so highly spoken, are
with me in the city of Manti: and the Lord has sup­
ported them, yea, and kept them from falling by the
sword, insomuch that even one soul has not been
slain. But behold, they have received many wounds;
nevertheless they stand fast in that liberty wherewith
God has made them free; and they are strict to re­
member the Lord their God, from day to day; yea,
they do observe to keep his statutes, and his judg­
ments, and his commandments continually; and their
faith is strong in the prophecies concerning that which
is to come. And now my beloved brother Moroni,
that the Lord our God who has redeemed us and made
us free, may keep you continually in his presence;
yea, and that he may favor this people, even that ye
may have success in obtaining the possession of all
that which the Lamanites have taken from us, which
^as'for our support. And now behold, I close mine
epistle. I am Helaman, the son of Alma.
418 BOOK OF ALHA.
; . . CHAPTER XXVII.
Now, it came to pass in the thirtieth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, after Mo-
roni had received and had read Helaman’s epistle, he
was exceedingly rejoiced because of the welfare, yea,
the exceeding success which Helaman had liad, in ob­
taining those lands which were lost; yea, and he did
make it known unto all his people in all the land
round about in that part where he was, that they
might rejoice also.
And it came to pass that he immediately sent an
epistle to Pahoran, desiring that he should cause men
to be gathered together, to strengthen Helaman, or
the armies of Helaman, insomuch that he might with
ease maintain that part of the land which lie had been
so miraculously prospered in retaining. And it came
to pass when Moroni had sent this epistle to the land
of Zarahemla, he began again to lay a plan, that he
might obtain the remainder of those possessions and
cities which the Lamanites had taken from them.
And it came to pass that while Moroni was thus
making preparations to go against the Lamanites to
battle, behold, the people of Nephihah who were gath­
ered together from the city of Moroni, and the city of
Lehi, and the city of Morianton, were attacked by the
Lamanites; yea, even those who had been compelled
to flee from the land of Manti, and from the land
round about, had come over,and joined the Lamanites
in this part of the land; and thus being exceeding nu­
merous, yea, and receiving strength from day to day,
by the command of Ammoron, they came forth against
the people of Nephihah, and they did begin to slay
them with an exceeding great slaughter. And their
armies were so numerous, that the remainder of the
people of Nephihah were obliged to flee before them;
and .they came even and joined the. army ,of Moroni.
And now as Moroni had supposed that, there should
be men sent to the city of Nephihah, to the assistance
of the people to maintain that city, and knowing that
it was easier to keep the city fromi'alling into the hands
of the Lamanites, than to retake it from them, he sup­
posed that they would easily maintain that.city;. there­
fore he retained all his force to maintain those place*
which he had recovered. f _ ».
v And nowwhen MoEoni saw. that .the,city of Nephi-
hah was lost,/he wtts exceeding .s,orfowful, an^.h^gf0
■ fe
BOOK OF ALHA.
k
417
to doubt, because of the wickedness of the people,
whether they should not fall into the hands of their
brethren. Now this was the case with all his chief
captains. They doubted and marveled also, because
ofthe wickedness of the people; and this because of
the success of the Lamanites over them. And itcame
to pass that Moroni was angry with the government,
because of their indifference concerning the freedom of
their country.
And it came to pass that he wrote again to the gov­
ernor of the land, who was Pahoran, and these are the
words which he wrote, saying, behold, I direct mine
epistle to Pahoran, in the city of Zarahemla, who is
the chief judge and the governor over the land, and
also to all those who have been chosen by this people
to govern and manage the affairs of this war; for be­
hold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way
ofcondemnation; for behold, ye yourselves know that
ye have been appointed to gather together men, and
arm them with swords, and with cimeters, and all
manner of weapons of war, of every kind, and send
forth against the Lamanites, in whatsoever parts they
should come into our land. And now behold, I say
unto you, that myself, and also my men, and also He-
laman and Ins men, have suffered exceeding great suf­
ferings; yea, even hunger, thirst, and fatigue, and all
manner of afflictions of every kind. But behold, were
this all we had suffered, we would not murmur nor
complain; but behold, great has been the slaughter
among our people: yea, thousands have fallen by the
swordf while it might have otherwise been, if ye had
rendered unto our armies sufficient strength and suc­
cor for them. Yea, great has been your neglect to­
wards us. And now behold, we desire to know the
cause of this exceeding great neglect; yea, we desire
lo -know the cause of your thoughtless state. Can
you think to sit upon your thrones, in a state of
thoughtless stupor, while your enemies are spreading
the work of death around you? Yea, while they are
murdering thousands of'your brethren; yea, even they
who have looked up to you for protection, yea, have
placed you in a situation that ye might have succored
them; yea, ye might have sent armies unto them, to
have strengthened them, and have saved thousands of
them from falling by the sword? But behold, this is
not all, ye have withheld your provisions’from them,
insomuch that many hate fought and bled out: their
4
lives because of their great desires which they had for
the welfare of this people; yea, and this they have
done, when they were about to perish with hunger,
because of your exceeding great neglect towards them.
And now, my beloved brethren; for ye had ought to
be beloved: yea, and ye had ought to have stirred
yourselves more diligently for the welfare and the
freedom of this people; but behold, ye have neglected
them, insomuch that the blood of thousands shall
come upon your heads for vengeance; yea, for known
unto God were all their cries, and all their sufferings.
Behold, could ye suppose that ye could sit upon your
thrones, and because of lire exceeding goodness of
God, ye could do nothing, and he would deliver you?
Behold, if ye have supposed this, ye have supposed in
vain. Do ye suppose that, because so many of your
brethren have been killed, because of their wicked­
ness? 1 say unto you, if ye have supposed this, ye
have supposed in vain: for I say unto you, there are
many who have fallen by the sword; and behold, it is
to your condemnation; for the Lord suffereth the
righteous to be slain, that his justice and judgment
may come upon the wicked; therefore ye need not
suppose that the righteous are lost because they ate
slain; but behold, they do enter into the rest of the
Lord their God. And now behold, I say unto you, 1
fear exceedingly that the judgments of God will come
upon this people, because of their exceeding slothful­
ness; yea, even the slothfulness of our government,
and their exceding great neglect towards their breth­
ren, yea towards those who have been slain: For
were it not for the wickedness which first commenced
at our head, we could have withstood our enemies,
that they could have gained no power over us; yea,
had it not been for the war winch broke out among
ourselves: yea, were it not for these king-men, who
caused so much- bloodshed among ourselves; yea, at
the time we were contending among ourselves, if we
had united our strength, as we hitherto have done;
yea, had it not been for the desire of power and au­
thority which those king-men had over us; had they
been true to the cause ofour freedom, and united with
us, and gone forth against our enemies, instead of tak­
ing up their swords against us, which, was the cause
of so much bloodshed among ourselves; yea, if we
had gone forth against them, iff the strength of the
Lordji.we should bave despersed our; efieeaKaw-for--**
418 BOOK OF ALMA.
ik,.
BOOS OK ALMA. 419
would have been done according to the fulfilling of his
word. But behold, now the Lamanites are coining
upon us, and they are murdering our people with the
Bword; yea, our women and our children; taking pos­
session of our lands, and also carrying them away
captive; causing them that they should suffer all man­
ner of afflictions; and this because of the great wick­
edness of those who are seeking for power and au­
thority; yea, even those king-men. But why should
I say much concerning this matter, for we know not
but what ye yourselves are seeking for authority?
We know not but what ye are also traitors to your
country? Or is it that ye have neglected us because
ye are in the heart of our country, and ye are sur­
rounded by security, that ye do not cause food to be
sent unto us, and also men to strengthen our armies?
Have ye forgot the commandments of the Lord your
God? Yea, have ye forgot the captivity of our fa­
thers? Have ye forgot the many times we have beer
delivered out of the hands of our enemies? Or do ye
suppose that the Lord will still deliver*us, while we
sit upon our thrones, and do not make use of the
means which the Lord has provided for us? Yea, will
ye sit in idleness, while ye are surrounded with thou­
sands of those, yea, and tens of thousands, who do al­
so sit in idleness, while there are tiiousands round
about in the borders of the land, who are fulling by
the sword, yea, wounded and bleeding? Do ye sup­
pose that God will look upon you as guiltless, while
ye sit still and behold these things? Behold 1 say un­
to you, nay. Now I would that ye should remember
that God has said that the inward vessel shall be
cleansed first, and then shall the outer vessel be cleans­
ed also. And now except ye do repent of that which
ye have done, and begin to'be up and doing, aud send
forth food and men unto us, and also unto Heluman,
that he may support those parts of our country which
he has retained, and that we may also recover the re­
mainder of our possessions in these parts, behold it
will be expedient that we contend no more with the
Lamanites until we have first cleansed our inward ves­
sel; yea, even the great headiofour government; and
except ye grant mine epistle, and come out and shew
unto me a true spirit of.freedom, and stiive to strength­
en and fortily. our armies, and grant unto them lood
fo^their, support, „behold, I will leave a part of .niy
freemen fo maintain tins part of our land, and .I will.
420 BOOK OF ALMA*
leave the strength and the blessings of God upon
them, that none other power can operate against
them; and this because of their exceeding faith and
their patience in their tribulations; and I will come
unto you, and if there be any among you that has a
desire for freedom, yea, if there be even a spark of
freedom remaining, behold I will stir up insurrections
among you, even until those who have desires to
usurp power and authority, shall become extinct; yea,
behold I do not fear your power nor your authority,
but it is my God whom. I fear, and it is according to
his commandments that I do take my sword to defend
the cause of my country, and it is because of your in­
iquity that we have suffered so much loss. Behold it
is time: yea, the time is now at hand, that except ye
do bestir yourselves in the defence of your country
and your little ones, the sword of justice doth hang
over you; yea, and it shall fall upon you and visit you
even to your utter destruction. Behold, I wait for
assistance from you, and except ye do administer un­
to our relief, behold I come unto you even in the land
of Zarahcmla, and smite you with the sword, inso­
much that ye can .have no more power to impede the
progress of this people in the cause of our freedom;
for behold the Lord will not suffer that ye shall live
and wax strong in your iniquities,'to destroy his right­
eous people. Behold, can you suppose that the Lord
will spare you and corns out in judgment against the
Lamanites, when it is the tradition of their fathers
that has caused their hatred; yea, and it has been re­
doubled by those who have dissented from us, while
your iniquity is for the cause of your love df glory,
and the vain things of’the world? Ye know that ye
do transgress the laws df God, and ye do know that
ye do trample them under yottr feet. Behold, the
Lord saith unto me, if those whom ye have appointed
your governors, do not repent of their silts and iniqui­
ties, ye shat! go up to battle against them. And now
behold, I Moroni am constrained, according to the
covenant which I have made to keep the command­
ments of my God; therefore I would that ye should
adhere to the word of Giod, and send speedily unto me
of your provisions and of your men, and also to Hela-
man. And behold if ye will not do this, I come unto
you speedily; for behold, God will not suffer that we
should perish’with hunger; therefore he will give un­
to us of your food, 'even if it musl,5beby ’the sword.
BOOK OF AXMA. 421
Now see that ye fulfil the word of God- Behold, I
am Moroni, your chief captain. I seek not for power
but to pull it down. I seek not for honor of the
worlds bill for the glory of my God, and the freedom
and welfare of my country. And thus I close mine
epistle.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Behold, now it came to puss that soon after Moro­
ni had sent his epistle unto the chief governor, he re­
ceived an epistle'from Pahoran, the chief governor.—
And these are the words which he received: I, Paho­
ran, who am the chief governor of this land, do send
these words unto Moroni, the chief captain over the
army, behold I say unto you, Moroni, that I do not
joy in your great afflictions: yea, it grieves' my soul.
But behold, there are those who do joy in your afflic­
tions; yea, insomuch that they have risen up in rebell­
ion against me, and also those of my people who are
freemen; yea, and those who have risen up, are ex­
ceeding numerous. And it is those who have sought
to take away the judgment seat from me, that have
been the cause of this great iniquity; for they have
used great flattery; and they have led away the hearts
ofmany people, which will he the cause of sore afflic­
tion among us; they have withheld our provisions, and
have daunted our'freemen, that they have not come
unto you; And behold, they have driven me out be­
fore them, and I have fled to the land of Gideon, with
as many men as it were possible that I could get. And
behold, I have sent- a proclamation throughout this
part of the land; and behold, they are flocking to us
daily, to their arms, in the defence of their country,
and their freedom, and to avenge our wrongs. And
they have come unto us, insomuch that those who have
risen up in rebellion against .us, are set at defiance?
yea,'insomuch that they do fear us, and durst not come
out against us to battle. They have got possession of
the land, or the eity of Zarahemla; they have appoin­
ted* king over them, and he hath written unto the*
king of the Lamanites, in the; which he hath joined an
alliance* with bith; in the which alliance, he'*hath
m BOOK OF ALMA.
agreed to maintain the city of Zar&hemla, which main­
tenance. he supposeth wUl enable the Lamanites to
conquer the remainder of the land, and he shall be
placed king over this people, when they shall be con­
quered under the Lainanites. And now, in your epis­
tle yon have censured me; but it mattereth not, 1am
not angry, but do rejoice in the greatness of your heart.
I, Fahoran, do not seek for power, save only to retain
my judgment seat, that I may preserve the rights and
the liberty of my people- My soul standeth fast in
that liberty, in the which God hath made us free.
And now behold we will resist wickedness even un(o
bloodshed. We would not shed the blood of the La-
manites, if they would stay in their own land. We
would not shed the blood of our brethren, if they
would not rise up in rebellion and take the sword
against us. We would subject ourselves to the yoke
of bondage, if it were requisite with the justice of God,
or if he should command us so to do. But behold lie
doth not command us that we shall subject ourselves to
our enemies, but that we should put our trust in him,
and he will deliver us. Therefore my beloved brother
Moroni, let us resist evil; and whatsoever evil wecan­
not resist with our words, yea, such as rebellions and
dissensions, let us resist them with our swords, that
we may retain our freedom, that we may rejoice in
the great privilege of our church and in the cause of
our lledeemer and our God. Therefore come unto
me speedily, with a few of your men, and leave the
remainder in the charge of Lebi and Teancum; give
unto them power to conduct the war in that part of
the land, according to the spirit of God, which is also
the spirit offreedom which is in them. Behold I have
sent a few provisions unto them, that they may not
perish until ye can come unto me. Gather together
whatsoever iorce ye can upon your march hither, and
we will go speedily against those dissenters, in the
strength of our God, accordidg to the faith which is in
us. And we will take possession of the city of 2 ara-
hemla, that we may obtain more food to send forth
unto Lehi and Teancum; ,yea, we will go forth against
them in the strength of the Lord, and we will put an
end to'this great iniquity.
And now, Moroni, I do joy in receiving your epistle;
for I was somewhat worried concerning what we should
do, whethei.it should be..just in us to goagainst our
brethren. But ye haye .said, except they repent, the
4*
BOOK OF ALMA. 4 2 3
$
Lord hath commanded you that ye should go against
them. See that ye strengthen Lehi and Teancum in
the Lord: tell them to fear not, for God will deliver
them; yea, and.also all those who stand fast in that
liberty wherewith God hath made them free. And
now I close mine epistle to my beloved brother Mo­
roni.
CHAPTER XXIX.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni had re­
ceived this epistle, his heart did take courage, and was
filled with exceeding great joy, because of the faithful­
ness of Pahoran, that he was not also a traitor to the
freedom and cause of his country. But he did also
mourn exceedingly, because of the iniquity of those
who had driven Pahoran from the judgment seat: yea,
in fine, because of those who had rebelled against their
country and also their God.
And it came to pass that Moroni took a small num­
ber of men, according to the desire of Pahoran, anti
gave Lehi and Teancum command over the remainder
of his army, and took his march towards the land of
Gideon. And lie did raise the standard of liberty in
whatsoever place he did enter, and gained whatsoever
force he could in all his inarch towards the land of
Gideon.
And it came to pass that thousands did Hook .unto
his standard, and did take up their swords in the de­
fence of their freedom, that they might not come into
bondage. And thus when Moroni had gathered to­
gether whatsoever men he could in all his march, he
came to the land of Gideon; and uniting his forces
with that of Pahoran, they became exceeding strong,
even stronger than the men of Pachus, who was the
king of those dissenters who had driven out the free­
men out of the land ofXarabemla, and had taken pos­
session of the land. a
Audit came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran went
down with llieir armies into the land of Zarahemla,
end went forth against the city, and did meet the men
AfP&chus, insomuch that, they,did come to battler—
And behold,:,Pachus was slain, and his men were tn-
m BOOK OF ABHA.
ken prisoners; and Pahoran was restored to his judg­
ment seat. And the men of Pachus received their tri­
al, according to the law, and also those king-men who
had been taken and cast into prison; and they were
executed according to the law; yea, those men of Pa­
chus, and' those king-men, whosoever would not take
up arms in the defence of their country, but would
fight against it, were put to death. And thus it be­
came expedient that this law should be strictly observ­
ed, for the safety of their country; yea, and whosoev­
er was found denying their freedom, was speedily ex­
ecuted according to the law. And thus ended the
thirtieth year of the reign of the judges over the people
of Nephi: Moroni and Pahoran having restored peace
to the land of Zarahemla, among their own people,
having inflicted death upon all those who were not
true to the cause of freedom.
And it came to pass in the commencement of the
thirty and first year of the reign of the judges ovet
the people of Nephi, Moroni immediately caused that
provisions should be sent, and also an army of six
thousand men, should be sent unto Helaman, to as­
sist him in preserving that part of the land; and he al­
so caused that an army of six thousand men, with a
sufficient quantity of food, should be sent to the ar­
mies of Lehi and Teancum. And it came to pass that
this was done, to fortify the land against the Lamae-
ites.
And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran, leav­
ing a large body of men in the land of Zarahemla,
took their march with a large body of men towards
the land of Nephihah, being determined to overthrow
the Lamanites-in that city. '
And it came to pass that as they were marching to­
wards the land, they took a large body of men of the
Lamanites, and slew many of them, and took their
provisions, and their weapons of war. And it came
to pass after they had took them, they caused them
to enter into a,feovenant, that they would no more
take up their weapons of war against the Nephites.—
And when they had entered into this covenant, they
sent them to dwell with the people of Ammon; and
they were in number about four thousand, who had
not been slain.' •
t i ,s. ? -s^« !*«• -
* Arid it came to pass that when they had sent them
away, they pursued their ■
march towards the land of
Nephihah;' And it cameto pass that'When they b*d
BOOK 'OF ALMA* 435
come to the city Nephihah, they did pitch their tents
in the plains of Nephihah, which is near the city Ne-1
phihah. Now Moroni was desirous that the Laman-
ites should come out to battie against them, upon the
plains; but the Lamanites knowing of their exceeding
great courage, and beholding the greatness of tbeif
numbers, therefore they durst not come out against
them; therefore they did not come to battle in tha$
day. And when the night came, Moroni went fortty
in the darkness of the night, and came upon the tops
ofthe wall to spy out in what part of the city the La*
manites did camp with their army.
And it came to pass that they were on the east, by
the entrance; and they were all asleep- And now
Moroni returned to his army, and caused that they
should prepare in haste strong cords and ladders, to
be let down from the lop of the wall into the inner
part of the wall.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his
men should march forth and come upon the top of the
wall, and let themselves down into that pari of the
city, yea, even on the west, where the Lamanites did
not camp with their armies.
And it came to pass that they were all let down in*
to the city by night, by the means of their strong
cords and their ladders; thus when the morning came,
they were all within the walls of the city. And now
when the Lamanites awoke, and saw that the armies
ofMoroni were within the walls, they were affrighted
exceedingly, insomuch that they did flee out by the
pass. And now when Moroni saw that they were flee­
ing before him, he did cause that his men should march
forth against them, and Blew many, and surrounded
many others and took them prisoners; and the remain­
der of them fled into the land of Moroni, which was
in the borders by the seashore. Thus had Moroni and
Pahoran obtained the possession of the city of Nephi­
hah, without the loss of one soul; and there were ma­
ny of the Lamanites who were slain.
Now it came to pass that many of the Lamanites
that were prisoners, were desirous to join the people
ofAmmon,, and become a free people. And it came
to pass that as many as were desirous, unto them it
was granted, according to their desires; therefore all
the prisoners of the' Lamanites did join the people of
Ammon, and did begin to labor exceedingly^ tilling
•ewwi ••fiStwwi >tu'l
426 BOOK OF 1XMA.
theground, raising all manner of grain, and flocks,
and herds of every kind; and thus were the Nephites
relieved from a great burthen; yea, insomuch that they
were relieved from all the prisoners of the Laman-
ites. *
* Now it came to pass that Moroni, after he had ob­
tained possession of the city of Nephihah, having ta­
ken many prisoners, which did reduce the armies of
the Lamatiiles exceedingly, and having retained many
of the Nephites who had been taken prisoners, which
did strengthen the army of Moroni exceedingly; there­
fore Moroni went forth from the land of Nephihak to
the land of Lehi.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanitessaw
that Moroni was comingagainst them, they wereagain
frightened, and fled before the army ol Moroni—
And it came to pass that Moroni and his army did pur­
sue them from city to city, until they were met by
Lehi and Teancum; and the Lamanites fled from Le­
hi and Teancum, even down upon the borders by the
seashore^ until they came to the land of Moroni—
And tile armies of the Lamanites were all gathered
together, insomuch that they were all in one body, in
the land of Moroni. Now Ammoron, the king ofthe
Lamanites, was also with them.
■'And it came to pass that Moroni, and Lehi, and
Teancum, did encamp with their armies round about
in the borders of the land of Moroni, insomuch that
the Lamanites were encircled about in the borders by
the wilderness, on the south, and in the borders by the
wilderness, on the east; and thus they did encamp for
the night For behold, the Nephites and the Laman­
ites also, were weary because of the greatness of the
inarch; 'therefore they did,not.resolve upon any strat­
agem in the night time, save it were Teancum: for he
was exceeding angry with Ammoron, insomuch that,
he considered that5Ammoron, and Amalickiah his
brother, had been the cause of this great mnd lasting
war between them and the Lamanites, which had been
the cause of so much war and bloodshed, yea, tand so
much famine. , i twriSv**!. :« »- •* * .sf'
1And it came to pass that Teancum in his anger did
go forth into the camp of the Lamanites, ■and did let
himself down over the .walls of the city. And heyvent
forth with a cord* flam,place to place,iinsotrmcJ) that
he did fmdtheking; and'he did cast a%veliim at him,
which did pierce him nearthe heart. But behold, the
king did awake his servant before he died, insomuch
that they did pursue Teancum, and slew him.
Now it came to pass that when Lehi and Moroni
knew that Teancum was dead, they were exceeding
sorrowful: for .behold, he had been a man who had
fought valiantly for his country, yea, a true friend to
liberty; and he had suffered very many exceeding sore
afflictions. But behold, he was dead, and had gone
the way of all the earth,, -
Now it came to pass that Moroni marched forth on
the morrow, and came upon the Lamanites, insomuch
that they did slay them with a great slaughter; and
they did drive them out of the land; and they did flee,
even that they did not return at that time against the
Nephites. And thus ended the thirty and first year
of the reign of the- judges over the people of Nephi;
and thus they had had wars, and bloodsheds, and fam­
ine, and affliction, for the space of many years. And
there had been murders, and contentions, and dissen­
sions, and all manner of iniquity among tire people of
Nephi; nevertheless, for the righteous” sake, yea, be­
cause of the prayers of the righteous, they were spar­
ed. But behold, because of the exceeding great length
of the war between the Nephites and the Lamanites,
many had become hardened, because of the exceeding
great length of the war; and many were softened, be­
cause of their afflictions, insomuch that they did hum­
ble themselves before God,, even in the depth of hu­
mility.
And it came to pass that after Moroni had fortified
those parts of the land which were most exposed to
the Lamanites, until they were sufficiently strong, he
returned'lo the ciy of Zarabemla, and also fielaman
returned to the place of his inheritance;, and there was
once more peace established among the people of. Ne­
phi. And Moroni yielded up the command of bis ar-
mies into the hands of his son;,whose name was Mo-
ronikah; and he retired to his own house that'he
might spend the remainder of his days in peace. And
Pahoran did return >to his judgment seat; and Hela-
man did take upon hiirifagain* to, preach unto the peo­
ple the-word of God: for because of so many warsand
contentions, it had become expedient that a regulation
should he made- agaimin the -
,church? therefore Hela-
man and. his brethren went forth, '*and did declare-.the
word of God iwith much powerjsunto theconviuoiog
of many people of their wickedness, which did cause
b o o k or A tU A . 427
ZOOK OB'ALM A.'
them to repeat of their sins, and to he baptized onto
the Lord their God. • >
’* > '
And it came to pass *that they did establish again
the church of God^ throughout all the land; yea, and
regulations were made concerning the law. And their
judges, and their chief judges were chosen. And the
people of Nephi began to prosper again in the land,
and began to multiply and to wax' exceeding strong
again in the land. And they began to grow exceed­
ing rich; but notwithstanding their riches, or their
strength, or their prosperity, they were not lifted up
in the pride of their eyes; neither were they slow to
remember the Lord their God; but they did humble
themselves exceedingly before him; yea, they did re­
member how great things the Lord had done tor them,
that he had delivered them from death, and from bonds,
and from prisons, and from all manner of afflictions;
and he had delivered them out of the hands of their
enemies. And they did pray unto the Lord their God
continually, insomuch that the Lord did bless them,
accordingto his word, so that they did wax strong,
and prosper in the land. And it came to pass that all
these things were done. And Helaman died, in the
thirty and fifth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.
* ♦
4 3 3
CHAPTER XXX.
Abd it came, to pass in the commencement of the
thirty and sixth year of the reign of the'judges over
the people of Nephi, that Shiblon took possession of
those sacred things which had been delivered unto
Heiaman by Alma; and he was a just man, and he did
walk uprightly before God; and he did observe to do
good continually, to keep the commandments of the
Lord his God; and also did his brother, s ■■
And it came to pass that Moroni died* also. And
thus ended the thirty and sixth year of .the reign of
the*judges. 3And it*came to pass that in the thirty
and seventh year of the reign of the judges, there was
a large company of men, even to the amount of five
thousand ana font hundred m
en, w
iththeirwives snd
kin (M
b*?
*
BOOK OF ALMA. 4 3 9
their children, deputed out of the hud of Zarahemla,
into the land which wag northward.
And it came to pass that Hagoth; he being an ex­
ceeding curious man, therefore he went forth and built
him an exceeding large ship, on the borders of the
land Bountiful, by the land Desolation, and launched
it forth into the west sea, by the narrow neck wbich
led into the land northward. And behold, there were
many of the Nephiles who did enter therein, and did
sail forth with much provisions, and also many women
and children; and they took their course northward.
And thus ended the thirty and seventh year. And in
the thirty and eighth year, this man built other ships.
And the first ship did also return, and many more peo­
ple did enter into it; and they also took much provis­
ions, and set out again to the land northward.
And it came to pass that they were never heard of
more. And we suppose that they were drowned up
in the depths of the sea. And it came to pass that
one other ship also did sail forth; and whither she did
go, we know not. And it came to pass that in this
year, there were many people who went forth into the
land northward. And thus ended the thirty and eighth
year.
And it came to pass in the thirty and ninth year of
the reign of the judges, Shiblon died also, and Corian-
ton had gone forth to the land northward, in a ship, to
carry forth provisions unto the people who had gone
forth into that land; therefore it became expedient for
Shiblon to confer those sacred things, before his death,
upon the son of Helaman, who was called Helaman,
beingcalled after the name of his father. Now behold,
all those engravings which were in the possession of
Helaman, were written and sent forth among the chil­
dren of men throughout all the land, saveit were those
parts which had been commanded by Alma should not
go forth. Nevertheless these things were to be kept
sacred, and handed down from one generation to an­
other; therefore, in this year, they had been conferred
Qpon Helaman, before the death of Shiblon. And it
came to pass also in this year, that there were some
dissenters who had gone forth unto the Lamanites; and
they werestirred up again to anger against theNephitea.
And also in this same year, they came down with,*
numerous army to war against the people of Moroni-
■hah, or against the army of Moronihah, in the w
hich
weyi w
erebeaten, and driven back againtotheir ow
n
430
0
ftQ O jt 0W
H K J M iy ,
lands, suffering great loco. ♦ And thus ended the thirty
and ninth year of the reign of the judges over the peo­
ple of Nephi. And thus ended the account of Abra,
end liclaman hi* son, end also Sbiblon, who was bit
M
O
D
.
f
t
THE BOOK OF HELAMAN.
CHAPTER i.
An account q f the Nephitcs. Thar wars ettul eotUcn-
iions, and their dissmsions. And atso the propho
ties qf many holy prophets, btfo/e the rowing tf
Christ, according to the record qf Hetmnan, icho wot
theson of Hdaman, and also according to the recvnli
qf his sons, even down to thecoming o) Christ. And
also many of the Lamanitn ore cootcried. An ac­
count of their conversion. An account qf the right­
eousness of the Lamanitcs, and the xeiehalncis aai
abominations of the Nephitcs, according to the rccori
of Helaman and his sons, ctc» aotem to the ou/sing <
V
Christ, which is called the book qf liclaman, Afc.
\
A«r> now behold, it came to pa** in the commence­
ment of the fortieth year of the reign of the judjy*
over the people of Nephi, there began to be » wsrtoin
difficulty, among the peopleof the Nephites. For be­
hold, Pahoran had died, and gone the way of all.{he
earths therefore there began tohe a nerioue contention
concerning wlto should have the judgment «cat amoag
tlie brethren, who were the son* of -l’ahoian. No*
these are their names svbo did contend for the judg­
ment seat, who did alto cause the people to contend:
Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumcni. Now these are net
nil the eons of Pnlmran, (for he had many,) but then
are they whodid contend for the judgment scat; there
lore they did cause three divisions among the peop»*
Nevertheless, it come to pats that Pahoran waa ap­
pointed by (lie voice of the peoplp to be chiefjudge*»“
a governor over the-people of Nepbi... M »
.< *
■
+
*-
-, And it canto to pas* that Pacumeni, when, he *•«
dhat ho could not obtain the judgment seat, he*aw
unite wilRUie vpice of tba pedptek. Butbehold, Paan-
#
chi', and that part of the people that were desirous that
he should be their governor, was exceeding wroth;
therefore he was about to flatter away those people to
rise up in rebellion against their brethren.
And it came to pass as he was about to do this, be­
hold, he was taken, and was tried according to the
voice of the people, and condemned unto death; for
he had raised up in rebellion, and sought to destroy
the liberty of the people. Now when those people who
were desirous that he should be their governor, saw
that he was condemned unto death, therefore they
were angry; and behold, they sent forth one Kishku-
raen, even to the judgment seat ofPahoran, and mur­
dered Paboran as he sat upon the judgment seat. And
he was pursued by the servants of rahoran; but be­
hold, so speedy was the flight of Kishkumen, that no
utan-could overtake him. And he went unto those
that sent him, and they all entered into a covenant,
yea, swearing by their everlasting. Maker, that they
would tell no man that Kishkumen had murdered Pa-
horan; therefore Kishkumen. was not known among
the people of Nephi, for he was in disguise at the time
that he murdered Palioran. And Kishkumen, and his
band who had covenanted with him, did mingle them­
selves among the people, in .a manner that they all
could not be found; but as many as were found, were
condemned unto death. And now behold, Pacumeni
was appointed, according to the voice of the people, to
be a chief judge and a governor over the people, to
reign in the stead of Iris brother Paboran; and it was
according to Iris right. And all this was done, in the
fortieth year of the reign of the judges; and it had an
end, . »
And it came to pass in the forty and first year of
the reign of the judges, that the Lamanites had gath-
ered together an innumerable army of men, and armed
them with swords, arid with cimeters, and with bows,
and with arrows, and with head-plates, and with
breasbplates, and with all manner of shields of every
*fnd;.and. they came down again, that they might
pitch battle against the Nephites. , And they wereled
by a man whose name.was Goriantumr; and he was a
descendant of Zarabemla; and he was a dissenter from
oblong the.Nephites: and he was a large and it mighty
man; therefore, the king of the L&manites, whose
nupe.was jTubaloth,. who was the’son of Ammoron,
sottpe6in^ihat^ori8ntumr,heinganiightyman,could
BOOS OF HELAMAN. 431
432
stand against the Nephites, insomuch with hisstrength
and also with his great wisdom, that by sending him
forth, he should gain power over the Nephites; there­
fore he did stir them up to anger, and he did gather
together his armies, and he did appoint Coriantumr to
he their leader, and did cause that they should march
down to the land of Zarahemla, to battle against the
Nephites.
And it came to pass that because of so much conten­
tion and so much difficulty in the government, that
they had not kept sufficient guards in the land of 2a-
rahemla; for they bad supposed that the Lamanites
durst not come into the heart of their lands to attack
that great oity JZarahemla. But it came to pass that
Coriantumr did march forth at the head of his numer­
ous host, and came upon the inhabitants of the city,
and their march was with such exceeding great speed,
that there was no time tor the Nephites to gather to­
gether their armies; therefore Coriantumr did cat
down the watch by the entrance of the city, and did
march forth with his whole army into the city, and
they did slay every one who did oppose them, inso­
much that they did take possession of the whole city.
And it came to pass that Pacumeni, who was the chief
judge, did flee before Coriantumr, even to the wallsof
the city. And it came to pass that Coriantumr did
smite him against the wall, insomuch that he died.—
And thus ended the days of Pacumeni. And now
when Coriantumr saw that he was in possession ofthe
city of Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites had fled
before them, and were slain, and were taken, and were
cast into prison, and that be had obtained the posses­
sion of the strongest hold in all the land, his heart took
courage, insomuch that he was about to go forth
against all the land. And now he did not tarry in the
a land of2arahemla, but he did march forth with a large
army, even towards the city of Bountiful; for it was
his determination to go forth and cut his way through
with the sword, that he might obtain the north parts
of the land; and supposing that their greatest strength
was in the center of the land, therefore he did march
forth, giving them no time to assemble themselves to­
gether, save it were in small bodies; and in this man­
ner they did fall upon them and cut them down to the
earth. But behold, this march of Coriantumr through
thecenter of tb | land,, gaveM
oron
ih
ah gteat advan­
tageoverthem
, notw
ithstan
d
in
gthe grealness ofth
e
BOOK OF HELAMAIT.
number of the Nephiles who were slaiu; for behold,
Moronihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst hot
come into this center of the land, but that they would
attack the cities Tound about in the borders as they
had hitherto done; therefore Moronlhah had caused
that their strong armies should maintain those parts
round about by the border?. But behold, the Larnan-
ites were not frightened according to his desire, but
they had come into the center ofthe land, and had ta­
ken the capital city, which was the city of Zaraliem-
la, and were marching through the most capital.parts
ofthe land, slaying the people with a great slaughter,
both men, women and children, taking possession of
many.cities and of many strong holds. But when
Moronibali had discovered this, he immediately sent
forth Lehi with an army round about to head them,
before they should come to the land Bountiful. And
'thus he did;.,and be did .head them, before they came
to the land Bountiful, and gave unto them battle, in­
somuch that they began to retreat back towards the
land of Zacaheinla. And it came to pass that Moroni-
hah did head them m their retreat, and did give unto
them battle insomuch that it became ah exceeding
bloody battle; yea, many were slain; and among the
number who wefe slain, Coriantumr was alao found.—
And now behold the Lamanites could not retreat ei­
ther way; neither on the north, nor on the .south, nor
on the east, nor on the west, for they were surrounded
on every hand by the Nephitesi And thus had Cori­
antumr plunged the Lamanites into the midst of the
Nephiles, insomuch that they were in the power of
the Nephites. and he himself was slain, and the La-
manites did yield themselves into the hands of the
Nephites.
And it came to pass that Moronihahtook possession
of the city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the
Lamanites who had been taken prisoners Bhould de­
part out of 4 he land in peace. And thus ended the
forty and first year of the reign of the judges. 1
And it came to pass in the forty and second year of
thereign of the judges, after Morottihah had establish­
ed again peace between the.Nepbites and the Lamac-
ites, behold there was no one tofill the judgment seat;1
therefore there began to be a contention again among
the people ’concerning who should fill the judgment
seat And:it came to pass that Helaman, who was
V " t 1 : V ' f - ; i , ■ ■ S ' , . ' V
BOOK o r HJELAMAK. 4 3 0
BOOK OK IIELANAS.
the son of Helaman, was appointed to fill the judg­
ment seat, by the voice of' the people; but behold,
KUhkUmen, who had murdered Pahoran, did lay wait
to destroy Helanlan also; and he was upheld by his
band, who had entered into a covenant that no one
should know his wickedness; for there was one Gadi-
anton who was exceeding expert in many words, and
dlso in his craft, to carry on the secret \v6rk of mur­
der and of robbery; therefore he became the leader of
the band of Kishkumen; therefore he did flatter them,
and also Kishkumen, that if they tyOuld place him in
the judgment seat, he would grant.unto those who be­
longed to his band that they should be placed in pow­
er and authority among the' people; therefore Kiebiu-
men sought to destroy Helatnan.
And it came to pass as he went forth towards the
judgment seat, to destroy Helaman, behold one ofthe
servants of Helaman, having been out by night, and
having obtained, through disguise, a knowledge df
those plane which had been laid by this band to des­
troy Helaman. And it came to pass that he met
Kishkumen, and he1gave unto him a sigh; therefore
'Kishkumen made known unto him the object of his
desire, desiring that he would conduct him to the judg­
ment seat, that he might murder Helaman; and when
the servant of Helaman had known all the heart of
Kishkumen, and how that it was his object to murder,
and also that it was the object ofall those who belong­
ed to his band, to murder, and to rob, and to gain pow­
er, (and this was their secret plan, and their combina­
tion,) the servant of Helaman saith unto Kishkumen,
let us go forth unto the judgment seat. Now this did
please Kislikitmen exceedingly, for he did suppose
that he should accomplish his design; but behold, the
servant of Helaman, as theywere going forth unto tbe
judgment seat, did slab Kishkumen, even to the heart
that he fell dead without a groan. Arid he ran and
told Helampn all the things which he 4
bud seen, and
heard, and done.
And it caipe to pass that Helaman did send forth to
take this band of robbers and secret murderers, that
they might be executed according' to the law. But
behold, when Gadianton had found' that Kishkumen
did not return; he feared leet that he should be destroy­
ed; therefore he caused that hid band should follow
him. And they took their flight out of-the land, by a
secret way, iritoHhe wilderness; and thus when Hela-
m
BOOK O f 8EUM AN. m
V
man sent forth to take them, they could no where be
found. And more of this Gadianton shall be spoken
hereafter. And thus ended the forty and second year:
ofthe reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.—
And behold, ib the end ol this booh, .ye, shall see that,
this Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost^
the entire destruction of the people of' Nephi. Behold
I do not mean the end of the book of {Jejainan, but I
mean the end of the book of Nephi, from which 1 have
taken all the account which I have written.
«
♦
CHAPTER II.
Aro now it came to pass in the forty and third year
of the reign of the judges, there was no contention
among the people of Nephi, save it were a little pride
which was in the church, which did cause some little
dissensions among the people, which affairs were set­
tled in the ending, of the forty and third year. And
there wa3 no contention among the people in the for­
ty and fourth year; neither was there much conten­
tion in the forty and fifth year. And it came to pass
in the forty and sixth, yea, there were much conten­
tions and many dissensions; in the which there were
an exceeding great many who departed out of the
land of Zaraheinla, and went forth unto the land
northward, to inherit the land; and they did travel to
an exceeding great distance, insomuch that they came
to large bodies of water, and many rivers; yea, and
even they did spread forth into all parts of the? lai^d,
into whatever parts it had not been rendered desolate,
and without timber,: because of the many inhabitants
who had before inherited the land. And now,no part
ofthe land was desolate, save it were for timber, &c.;
but because of the greatness of the destruction of the
people who had before inhabited the land, it, was call­
ed desolate. And there being but little .(timber upon
the face of the land, nevertheless the people who went
forth, became exceeding expert in- the working of ce-
“ ejitj itherefore,they did build houses, of cement,%
th^wluch-dieyidicldwc.lhvtj s’*,*. ^ ^
t Aud it Game to. pass that they did multiply and
•Pfoad, aad^dtdjgo,!,forth from"thedawi southward to
;|-
I :
&
the land northward, and didspread insomufchthat they
began to cover the fade of the- whole earth, from the
sea south,, to the sea north, from the sea; west; to the’
sea east. And the people who were in the land north­
ward, did dwell in tents, and in houses of cement, and
they did suffer whatsoever tree should spring up upon
the face of the' land, that it should grow up, that in
time they might have timber to build uibir houses, yea,
their cities, and their temples, and their synagogues,
and their sanctuaries, and all manner of their build­
ings.
And it came to pass as timber was exceeding scarce
in the land northward, they.did send forth much by
the way of shipping; and thus they did enable the
people in the land northsvard, that they might build
many cities, both of' wood and of cement. And it
came to pass that there were many of the people of
Ammon,''who Were Lamanites by birth, did also go
forth into this land. ‘
Arid now there are many records kept of the proceed­
ings of this people, by many of this people, which are
particular and very large, concerning, them; but behold
u hundredth part of the proceedings of this people,
yea, the accountofthe Lamanites, and of the Nephites,
and their wars, and contentions, and dissensions, and
their preaching, and their prophecies, and their ship­
ping; and their building of ships, and their building of
temples, and of synagogues, and their sanctuaries, and
their righteousness; and their wickedness, and their
murders, and their robbings, and their plundering, and
all manner of abominations and whoredoms, cannot be
contained in this work; but behold, there are many
books and many records of every kind, and they have
been kept chiefly by the Nephites; and they have been
liahded down froth one generation to another, by the
Nephites, even until they have fallen into transgres­
sion, and have been murdered, plundered, and bunted;
and driven forth, and slain, and scattered upon the
face of the earth, and mixed with the Lamanites until
they are no more called the Nephites, becoming wick­
ed, and wild, and ferocious, yea; even becoming La­
manites.
And now I return again tp mine account; therefore
what I- have spoken had passed after there' had been
great contentions, and disturbances, and wars, and dis­
sensions among the people of Nephi. • The forty and
dixlb year off the-reign of the;judges ended. Apdjl
43& ; BOOK OF HEfcAMAWi
BOOK.OJT H itA M A lf. 437
came to pass, that there was still great c ontentions Jot
die land,*yea, even in the forty and seventh year, and
also in the forty and eighth,year; nevertheless, Hela-
mandid fillthe judgment seat with justice and equity;
yea he did observe to keep the, statutes, and tjie judg­
ments, and the .commandments of God; and he did do
that which-was right in the sight of God continually;
and he did walk alter the ways of his father, insomuch
that he did prosper in the land. And it came to pass
that he had two sons. He gave unto the eldest the
name of Nephi, and unto the youngest the name of
LehL And they began to grow up unto the Lord-—
And it came to pass that the wars and contentions be­
gan to cease, in a small degree, among the people of
theNepliites, in the latter end of the forty and eighth
year of the reign of,the judges oyer the people of Ne-
phi. And it came ,to pass in the forty and ninth year
of the reign of the judges, there was continual peace
established in the land, all save it .were the secret com­
binations which Gadianton the robber had established,
in the more settled parts of the land, which at that
time were not known unto those who were at the head
ofgovernment; therefore they were not destroyed out
ofthe land.
And it came to pass that in this same year, there
was exceeding great prosperity in the church, inso­
much that there were thousands who did join them­
selvesunto the church, and were baptized unto repeal-
ance; and so great was the prosperity of the church,
and so many the blessings which were poured out up­
on thepeople, that even the high priests and the teach­
es were themselvesastonished beyond measure. And
it came to pass that the work of the Lord did prosper
unto the baptizing and uniting to the church of God
Wany souls; yea, even tens of thqusands. Thus we
may see that the Lord is merciful unto all who will,
in the sincerity of their hearts, call upon Lis holy
name; yea, thus we see that the gate of heaven is
open unto all, even to those who will believe on the
name ofJesus Christ, who is the Son of God; yea, we
eee that whosoever will lay hold upon the word ofGod
which is quick and powerful, which shall divide assun-
der all the cunning, and the snares, and the,wiles of
the devil, and lead the man of Christ in a straight and
®
mtow course across that everlasting gulf of misery
whieh is prepared.to engulf the wicked, and land their
,ou»t yea, their immortal souls,-fct the right *
hand of
438
God, in the kingdom of heaven,' to sit ■
down with
Abraham, and Isaac, and with JaOob, and with ail our
holy fathers, to go no more out. And in this year
there were continual rejoicing in the land of Zarahem-
la, and in all the regions round about, even in all the
land which was' possessed by the Nephites. And it
came to pass that there was peace and exceeding great
joy in the remainder of the forty and ninth year; yea,
and also there was continual peace and great joy in
the fiftieth year of the reign of the judges. And in the
fifty and first year of the reign of the judges, there was
peace also, save it were the pride which began to en­
ter into the church; hot into the church of God, but
into the hearts of the people who professed to belong
to the church of God; and they were lifted up in pride,
even to the persecution of many of their brethren,—
Now this1was a ‘great evil, which did cause the more
huhible part of the people to suffer great persecutions,
and to wade through much affliction; nevertheless,
they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and
stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the
faith of Christ,! unto the fillingtheir souls with joy and
consolation, yea, even to the purifyingand the sancti­
fication of their hearts, which sanctification coroeth
because of their yielding their hearts unto God. And
it came to pass that the fifty and second year ended in
peace also, save it were the exceeding great pride
which had gotten into the hearts of the people; and it
was because of their exceeding great riches, and their
prosperity in the land; and it did grow upon them
from day to day, ,
And it came to pass in the fifty and third year ofthe
reign of the judges; Helaman died, and his eldest son
Nephi began'to reign in his stead. And it came to
pass that he did fill the judgment seat with justice and
equity; yea, Ire did keep the commannments of Gcd,
and did walk in the ways of his father. And it came
to pass in the fifty and fourth'year, there were many
dissensiohs in the church, and there was also a conten­
tion among the people* insomuch that there was much
bloodshed; and the rebellious part were slain and driv­
en out Of the land; and they did go unto the king «
the Lamanltes. * ’ <
* \
And it came to pass that-they did* endeavor to stir
Up the Laumuitesto War against the Nephites; but
behold; the' LSmanites were exceeding fraid, insomuch
thatthey'WoffldifotlearkentothewordsoftboSedis-*
BOOK O r'H K L A M U H .
sentera. But.it came to pass in the fifty and sixth
year of the reign of the judges, there were dissenters
who went up i'rom the Nephites unto.the Lamanites;*
and they succeeded,with those others in stirring them
up to anger against the NepbiteS; and they were alt
that year preparing for war. And in the fifty and sev­
enth year, they did come down against the Nephiles
to battle, and they did commence the work of death;
yea, insomuch that in the fifty and eighth year of the
reign of the judges, dhey succeeded in obtaining pos­
session of the land.of Zarahemla; yea, and also all the
lands, even unto the land which was near the land
Bountiful; and the Nephites, and the armies of Moro-
nibah, were driven even into the land of Bountiful; and
there they did fortify against the Lamanites, from the
westsea, even unto the east; it being a day's journey
for a Nepbile, on the line which they had fortified and
stationed their armies to defend their, north country.
And thus those dissenters of the Nephites, with the
helpof a numerous army of the Lamanites, had obtain­
ed all the possession of the Nephites which was in the
landsouthward. And ah this was done in the fifty
and eighth and ninth years of the reign of the judges.
And it came to pass in the sixtieth year of the reign
ofthejudges, Moronihah did succeed with hia armies,
in obtaining many parts of the iand; yea, they retain­
ed many cities which had fallen into the hands of
the Lamanites.
And it came to pass in the sixty and first year of
the reign of the judges, they succeeded in retaining
even the halfof aU,their possessions. Now this great
loss of the Nephites, and the great slaughier which
was among them, would not have happened, had it
not been for their wickedness and their abomination
which was among them; yea, and it was among those
also who professed to belong to the. church of God;
and it was because of the pride of their hearts, because
of their exceeding riches, yea, it .was because of their
oppression to . the poor, withholding their food from
the hungry, withholding their clothing from the na­
ked, andsmiting their humble brethren upon, the cheek,
making a mock of that which was 6ecre(b denying the
spirit of prophecy and of revelation, murdering, plun­
dering, lying, stealing, committing adultery, rising up
h>great contentions, and deserting away into the land
ofNephi, among the Lamanites; and because of this
their, gjeat wickedness, and their, boastings in there
BOOK OF.jHXLAMAH. 4 3 9
440 b o o k or h e l a m a k .
own strength, they were left in their own strength;
therefore they did not prosper,, but were afflicted and
smitten, and driven before the Lamanites, until they
had lost ppssession of almost all their lands. But be­
hold, Moronihah didf'preachmany things unto the peo­
ple, because of their iniquity, and also Nephi and Le-
hi, who were the sons of Helaman, did, preach many
things unto the people; yea, and did jirophesy many
things unto them concerning their iniquities, and what
should come unto them if they did not repent of their
sins. And it came to pass that they did repent, and
inasmuch as they did repent, they did begin to pros-
per; for when Moronihah saw that they did repent,
he did venture to lead them forth frohi place to place,
and from city to city, even until they had retained the
one half of their property, and the one half ofall their
lands. ‘ And lima endedthe sixty and first year of the
reign of the judges.
And it came to pass in the sixty and second year of
the reign of the judges, that Moronihah could obtain
no more possessions over the Lamanites; therefore
they did abandon their design ti obtain the remainder
of their lands, for so numerous were the Lamanitei
that it., became impossible for the Nephites to obtain
more power over them; therefore Moronihah did em­
ploy all liis armies in maintaining those parts which
he had token. ' '
And it came to pass because of the greatness ofthe
number of the Lamanites, the Nephites were in great
fear, >
lest they should be overpowered, and trodden
down, and slain, and destroyed; yea, they began to
remember the prophecies of Alma,and also the words
of Mosiah; and they saw that they had been a stiff­
necked people, and that they had set-at* nought the
commandments of God; and that* they-bad altered
and trampled under their feet the laws’ofMosiah> or
that which the Lord commanded him to give unto the
people; and thus seeing that their:laws- had become
corrupted, and that they bad become h wicked people,
insomuch that they were wicked’ even like onto the
Lamanites.' And bedause Oftheir iniquity^ the church
had began to dwindle; aiid they'began- to disbelieve
in the spirit of prophecy,'and in the spirit of revela­
tion; and- the judgments of God did stare them in the
face. ,And they-saw that1
they had become weak, like
unto their'.brethren, the:Lamanites?nndthat the spirit
Of-the Lord’-didn o {mbre‘preserve;itftCttij
BOOK OF HBLAMAJf, 441
withdrawn from them, because the spirit of the Lord
doth not dwell in unholy temples; therefore the Lord •
did cease to preserve them' by his miraculous and
matchless power, for the/had fallen into a state of un­
belief and awful wickedness; and they saw that, the
Lamanites were more exceeding numerous than they,
and except they should cleave unto the Lord their God,
they must unavoidably perish. For behoid, they saw
that the strength of the Lamanites was as greaths
their strength, even man for man. And thus had they
fallen into this great transgression; yea, thus had they
become weak, because ot their transgression, in the
space of not many years,
And it came to pass that in this same year, behold,
Neplii delivered up the judgment seat, to a man whose
namewas Cezoram. For as their laws and their govern­
ments were established by the voice of the people, and
they who chose evil were more numerous than they
who chose good, therefore they were ripening for des­
truction, for the laws had become corrupted; yea, and
this was not all; they were a stiffnecked people, inso­
much that they could not be governed by the law nor
justice, save it were to their destruction.
And >t came to pass that Nephi had become weary,
because of their iniquity; and he yielded up the judg­
ment seat, and took it upon him to preach theword o f
God ail the remainder of his days, and his brother Le­
inalso, all the remainder of his days; for they remem­
bered the words which their father Heiaman spake un­
to them. And these are the words which he spake:
behold, my sons, I desire that ye should remember tb
keep the commandments of God; and I would that ye
should declare unto the people these words, behold, I
have given unto you the names of our first parents,
who came out of the land of Jerusalem; “and this I
have done, that when you remember your names, that
ye may remember them; and when ye rememher them,
ye mayremember their works; and when ye remember
theirworfce, ye rhay know how that it is said, and al­
so written, that they were good; therefore my sous, I
would that ye should do that which is good, that it
jbay be said of you, and also written, even as it has
been'said and written of them. And now my sons,
behold; I have somewhat more to desire of you, which
desire is^thatye may not do these things that ye may
boast,.hmt?thafrye^ may do these things to lay up'for
yourselves a treasure in heaven, yea,'which is eternal,
448 BOOK, O r HELAMAJI.
•and which ftdeth not away; yea, that ye may have
that precious gift of eternal life, which we have reason
to suppose hath been given t'o our fathers.
O remember; remember,' my sons, the words which
-king Benjamin spake unto his people; yea, remember
that there is no other way nor means whereby man
can he saved, only through the'atoning blood of Jesus
Christ, who-shall come; yea, remember, that he com-
<eth te redeem, the world. And remember also, the
words which Amuiek spake unto Zeezrom, in the city
sof Ammonihah; .for he said unto him, that the Lora
>surely should come to, redeem his people: but that he
should not come to redeem them in their sms, butte
redeem them from their sins. And he hath power giv­
en unto him from the Father, to redeem them from
their sins, because of -repentance; therefore he hath
■■senthis angels to declare the tidings of the conditions
-of repentance, which bringeth unto the power of the
.Redeemer, unto the salvation of their souls. And now
any sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock
.of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that
ye must build your foundation, -that when the devil
shall send forth his mighty winds; yea, his shafts in
the whirlwind; yea, when all his hail and his mighty
storm shall beat upon you, it shall have no power over
you, to drag you down to the gulf of misery and end­
less wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built,
which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if
men build, they cannot fall. ».
And.it came to pass that these were the words which
JHelaman taught to his soils; yea, be did teach them
many things which are not written, and also many j
things which are written. And they did rememberbis
words; and therefore they went forth, keeping the
commandments of God, to teach the word of God
among, all lhe people of Nephi, beginning at the city
Bountiful; and;from thence forth to the city of Gid;
and from the city of Gid to the city of Mulek; and
even from one city to another, until they had gone
forth among all the people of Nephi, who were in tbe
land southward; and from thence into the land of2a-
rahemla, among the Lamanites.
And it came,to pass that they did preach with great
power, insomuch that they did-confound many ofthose
dissenters who had gone over,)from the Nephites, in­
somuch .that they, came ,forth and did confess their
sins, and; w.ere- baptized unto repentance, and imn>*
BOOK OF HEI.AMAS.
diately returned to the Nephites, to endeavor to repair
unto them the wrongs which they had done. And it
came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the
Lamanites with such great power and authority, for
they had power and authority given unto them that
they might speak:- and they also had what they should
speak, given unto them; therefore they did speak unto-
thc great astonishment of the Lamanites, to the con­
vincing them, insomuch tiiat there were eight thou­
sand of the Lamanites who were in the land of Zara-
hemla and round about, baptized unto repentance, and
were convinced of the wickedness of the traditions of
their fathers.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did pro­
ceed from thence to go to the land of Nephi. And it
came to pass that they were taken by an army of the
Lamanites, and cast into prison; yea, even in that
same prison in which Ammon and his brethren were
cast by the servants of Limhi. And after they had
been cast into prison many days without food, behold,
they went forth into the prison to take them, that they
Blight slay them. And it came to pass that Nephi
and Lehi were encircled about as if by fire, even inso­
much that they durst not lay their hands upon them,
forfear,lest they should be burned. Nevertheless, Ne.
phi and Lehi werenot burned; and they were as stand­
ing in the midst of fire, and were not horned. And'
when they saw that they were encircled about with a
pillar of fire, and that it burned them not, their hearts
did take courage. For they saw that the'Lamanites
durst not lay their hands upon them; neither durst
they come near unto them, but stood as if they were
struck dumb with amazement.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did stand
forth, and began to speak onto them, saying, fear not
for behold, it is God that has shewn unto you this
marvelous thing, in*the whicii is shewn unto you, that
yecanpot lay your hands on us to slay us. And be-
hold, when they had said these words, the earth shook
exceedingly, and the walls of the prison did shake,‘‘as
ifthey were ubont to tumble to the'earth; but behold,
they did noMall.* And behold,' they that were in the
prison; were Lamanites, and Nephites *who were dis-»
•enters. And it*came to pass that they were overit
shadowed with a cloud of darkness,' and an awftii,'
folemn fearCamaupon them, ’ Arid it cameto‘paisa
fbat there'(same avoice, as if it were above the’feload
443?
444 BOOK OF-i H£XtAM/U?.»
of darkness, saying, repent ye, repent ye,, and seekno
more to destroy.my servants whom I have sent unto
you to declare good tidings, , • , . „ , ,
And it came to pass when they heard this voiceband
beheld that it was not a voice of thunder; neither was
it a voice of a great tumultuous noise; but-behold, it
was a still-voice, of perfect mildness, as if it had been
-a whisper, and it did pierce even to the very soul.
And notwithstanding the mildness of the voice, behold,
the earth shook exceedingly, and the wails of the pri­
son trembled again, as if it were about to fumble to
the earth; and' behold,- the cloud of darkness which
had overshadowed them, did not disperse. And be­
hold, the voice came again, saying,, repent ye, repent
ye, for the kingdom ofheaven is at hand; and seek no
more to, destroy my servants. And it came to pas?
that the earth shook again, and the walls trembled;
and also again the third time the voice came, and did
speak unto them marvelous words, which cannot be
uttered by man; and the walls did tremble again, and
the earth shook as if it were about to divide assunder.
And it;came to pass that the Lamanites could not
flee, because of the cloud of darkness which did over­
shadow them; yea, and also they were immoyable, be­
cause of the fear which did come upon them. ,I4ow
there was one among them who was a Nephite by
birth, who had once belonged to the church of God,
but had dissented from them. And it came to pass
that he turned him about, and behold, he, saw through
the cloud of darkness the faces of Neph i and Lehi; and
behold,- they did shine exceedingly, even asthefacesof
angels. ^And he‘beheld that they did lift their eyes to
heaven; and they were in the attitude a8 if talking or
lifting their voices to some being whom they beheld
And it came to pass that this man did cry unto the
multitude, that they,might turn and look. And be­
hold, there was power given unto them, that they did
turn and look; and they did behold the faces of iNepbi
and Lehi. And they said unto the man, behold, what
doth all these things mean? and -who is it with w
&
0
1
B
these men do converse? Now the man’s name v?as
Aminadab. And Amiriadab said,unto them, they d
®
converse -with the angels of (Jod. And it camp topass
that the Lamanites said unto him,- what shall we do,
1hat this cloud pf.darkness may be removed from over-
shadowing us?,, And Aminadab said unto;them, you
must repent, and-cry unto the voice,eyenuiitUfJ®
BOOK- O F HEJjAMAK*' 445
shallbare faith in Christ,-who was taught onto yon by
Alma, and Amulek, and .Zeezrom; and when ye shall
beremoved from overshadowing you. \S
And it name to pass' that they all did begin to cry,
unto the voice of him who had shook the earth;-yea,
they did cry even until the cloud of darkness was dis­
persed. And it came to pass that when they cast their
eyes about, and saw thatthe cloud of darkness was dis­
persed from overshadowing them, and behold, they
saw that they were.encircled about, yea, every soul, by
a pillar of lire. And Nephi and Lehi were in the
midst of therii; yea, they were encircled about; yea,
they were as if in the midst of a flaming fire, yet it did,
harm them not, neither did it take hold upon the walls
ofthe prison; and they were filled with that joy which-
isunspeakable and full of glory. And behold the Holy
Spirit of God did coine down from heaven, and did
enterinto their hearts, and they were filled as if with
fire; and they could speak forth marvelous words.
And it came to pass that there came a voice unto
them, yea, a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper,
saying, peace, peace be unto you, because of your faith
in my well beloved, who was from the foundation of
the world. And now when they heard this, they cast-
up their eyes as if to behold from whence the voice
came; and behold, they saw the heavens open; and
angels came down out of heaven, and ministered unto
them. And there were about three hundred souls who
saw and heard these things; and they were bid to go
forth and marvel not, neither should they doubt. Ands
it came to pass that they did go forth, and did minister
uuto the people, declaring throughout all the regions
round about, all the Lhings which they had heard and
seen, insomuch that the more part of the Lamahites
were convinced of them, because of the greatness of
the evidences, which they had received; and as many
as Were convinced, did lay down their weapons of war,
and also their hatred, and the tradition of their fathers.
| And it came to pass that they did yield up unto the
Nephitea, the lands of thek possession.
And it came to pass that when the sixty and second
year of the reign of the judges bad enaed, all these
things had.happened, and the Lanianites hatl become,*
the more part of them, a righteous people, insomuch
: thattheirrighteousness did exceed that of the Nephites,
because.of their firmness, and their steadiness.in the
nith.: For bebojd, there were many of the Nephites
446 BOOK' OF HEtjAMAH.
who had become hardened,andimpenitent,and gross*
ly wicked, insomuch that they did reject the word of
God, and all the, preaching and prophesying which did
come among them. Nevertheless, the people of the
chorch did have great joy, because of the conversion
of the Lamanites; yea, becaose of the church of God,
which had been established among-them. And they
did fellowship one with* another, and did rejoice one
with another, and did have great joy. And iltcaineto
pass that many of the Lamanites did conie down into
the land of Zarahemla, and did declare unto the people
of the Nephites the manner of their conversion, and
did exhort them to* faith and repentance! yea, and
many did preach with exceeding great power and au­
thority, unto tile bringing down many of them into
the depths of humility, to be the humble followers of
God and the Lamb.
And it came to- pass that many of the Lamanites did
go into the land northward; and also Nephi and Lehi
went into the land northward, to preach unto the peo­
ple'.- And thus-ended the sixty and third year. And
behdld, there was peace in all the land, insomuch that
the Nephites did go into whatsoever part of the land
they would, whether among the Nephites or the La­
manites. And it came to pass that the Lamanites did
also go whithersoever they would, whether it were
among the Lamanites or among the Nephites; and
thus they did have free intercourse one with another,
to buy and to sell, and to get gain, according to their
desire. ' : 1.
And it came to pass that they became exceeding rich,
both the Lamanites and thejNephites; and they did
have an exceeding plenty of gold, and of silver, and
0,fall manner of precious metals, both in the land south,
and in the land north. Now the land south was called
Lehi, and the land north wad called Mntek, whiehwas
after the sons of Zedekiah; for the Lord did bring
Mntek into the land north, and Lehi into the land
south/* And behold,1there w p all manner of gold in
both these lands! and of silver, and of precious ore of
every kirid; and there were also curious workmeri, who
did work all kinds of. ore, apd- did refine it; and thus
they did become rich.i. They did raise-grain in abund­
ance, both in. thO-north and in theeoulh; arid they did
flourish exceedingly; both in the-north and tn the south;
And.niiey,<fld i»ultiply!and wax exceedingistroDg.m
theriapdf sArid the^ did. Taise many floCks and herds;
447
t
yea, mahy falling^; >
Behold, their, women did toil and
spin, and did make all manner of cloth, of fine twined
linen, and cloth of every kind, to clothe their naked­
ness. And thus the sixty'arid fourth year did pass
away in peace. And in-the sixty and fifth year, they
did also, have- great joy and peace; yea, much preach­
ing, and many prophecies concerning that which was
to come. And thus "passed away the sixty and fifth
year. ' - *
And it came to pass that in the sixty and sixth year
of the reign of the judges, behold, Cezoram was mur­
dered1by an unknown hand, as he-sat upon the judg­
ment seat. And it came to pass that in the same year,
that his son, who had been appointed by the people in
his stead, was also murdered. And, thus ended the
sixty and sixth year. And in the commencement of
the sixty and seventh year, the people began to grow
exceeding wicked again. For behold, the Lord had
blessed them b o long with the riches of the world, that
they had not been stirred up to anger, to wars, nor to
bloodsheds; therefore they began to set their hearts
upon their riches; yea, they began to seek to get gain,
that they might be lifted up one above another; there­
fore they began to commit secret murders, and to rob,
and to plunder, that they might get gain. And now
behold, those murderers and plunderers were a band
who had been formed by Kishkumen and Gadranton.
And now it had come to pass that there were many,
even among the Nephites, of Gadiaritob’s band. But
behold, they were more numerous among the more
wicked part of the Lamanites. And they were Called
Gadianton's robbers and murderers; and it was they
'who did murder the chiefjudge Cezoram, and, his son,
while in thejudgment seat; and behold, they were not
found. •
And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites
found that there were robbers among them, they were
exceeding sorrowftil; and they did use every means in
their power, to destroy them off the face of the earth.
But behold, satan'did stir up the hearts of the more
parts of the Nepbites, insomuch that they did unite
with those bands of robbers, and did enter into their
covenants, -and their oaths, that they would protect
end preserve one another, in whatsoever difficult cir-
riimstaneed they should be placed, that they should not
foffer for their'murders, And their plunderings, and
thehr etealmgsi1 .'*
i p.vija hs/a?. h-v
BOOK OB’ Hfc&AMAK-
448 BOOK. OF J3KLAMAK.
And it -came to.pass that they did have their signs,
yea, their secret signs, and* their secret words; and
this that they might distinguish a brother who had en­
tered into the covenant', that whatsoever wickedness
his brother should do, he. should not be injured by his
brother, nor by those who did belong to his band, who
had taken this covenant; and thus they might'murder,
and plunder, and steal, and commit whoredoms, and
all manner ol wickedness, contrary to the laws of their
country and also the laws of their God; and who­
soever of those who belonged to their band, should
reveal Unto the world of their>
wickedness and their
abominations, should be tried, not according to the
laws of their country, but according to, the laws of
their wiekedrfess, which had beengiven.by Gadian-
ton ana Kishkumen. Now. behold, it is these secret
oaths and covenants, which Alma commanded his son
should not go forth unto ithe world, les,t they should
be a means of bringing down the people unto destruc­
tion. Now behold, those secret oaths and covenants
did not come forth unto Gadianton from the records
which were delivered unto Helaman; but behold, they
were put into the heart of Gadianton, by that samebe­
ing who did entice our first parents to partake of the
forbidden fruit? yea, that same being who did plot
with Cain, that if he would murder his brother Abel,
it should not be'knovvn unto the world. And he did
plot, with Ca^n and his followers, from that time forth-
■And also it is that same being who put it into, the
hearts of the people, to build a tower sufficiently high
that they might get to heaven. And it was that same
being who led-on the people who came from that tow­
er, into this land; who spread the "works of darkness
and abominations over all the face of the land, until
he dragged the people down to an entire destruction,
and to an everlasting lifell;;yen, it is that same being
who put it into t heart of Gadianton, to still carry
on the work of darkness, and of secret murder; and he
has brought it forth from the beginning of man, even
down to this time. And behold, it is he who is the
author of all sin- And behold, he doth carry on his
works of darkness and secret murder, and doth hand
down their plots, and their .oaths, and their covenants,
and their plans of awfuhwickedness, from generation
to generation, according as he can get hold upon the
hearts-of the children of; mem ; Ana now behold, b*
had got great hold upon- the hearts Of theNephitesi
BOOK OF HELAHAH. m
yea, insomuch that they had become exceedingwicked;
yea, the more pari of them had turned out of the way
ofrighteousness, and-'did trample under their feet the
commandments of God, anti d;d turn unto their own1
ways, and did build up unto themselves idols of their
gold ami their silver.
And it cams to pass,that ail theseIniquities did come
unto1
them, in thejjpace of not many years, insomuch
that a more part of it had coins unto them in the sixty
and seventh year of the reign of the judges oyer the
peopleof^ephi. And they-did grow in their iniquities,
inthe sixty and eighth year also, to the great sorrow
and lamentation of the righteous. , And thus we see
that the Nephites did begin to dwindle in unbelief, and
growin wickedness and abominations, while the L&-
maniles began to, grow exceedingly in the knowledge
oftheir God; yea, they did begin to keep his statutes
andcommandments, and to walk in trutii and upright­
ness before him. And thus we see that the spirit of
theLord began to withdraw from the Nepliites, because
of the wickedness and the hardness of their hearts.
And thus vve see that the Lord began to pour out his
spirit upon the .Lamanites, because of tbeir easiness
and'willingness to believe in his word,
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did hunt
theband of robbers ofGadianton; and they did preach
f-eword of God among the more wicked part of them,
insomuchthat th is band of robbers was utterly destroy­
edfromamong the Lamanites. And it came to pass
on the other hand, Lhat theNephites did build them up
andsupport them, beginning at the more wicked part
of them, until they had overspread all the land of the •
Nepliites, and had seduced the more p»Tl of the right­
eous until they had come down to believe in their
'|°rks> and partake or their spoils, and to join with
utemin their secret murders and combinations. And
thus they did obtain the sole management of the go­
vernment, insomuch that they did trample under their
wet, and smite, and rend, and turn their backs upon
me poor, and the meek, and the humble followers of
God. And thus yve see that they were in an awful
state, and ripening for an everlasting destruction.
And.it came to pass that thus ended the sixty and,
jpaF the judges over the people
> ... : •
V
:'“
k
W
y
tV
450 BOOK OF HELAMAH,
CHAPTER III.
THE PROPHECY OF NEPHI,
THE SON OF HELAMAN.
Qod threatens the people of Nephi, that he mil zisit thin
in his anger, to their utter destruction, except they re­
pent of their ■wickedness, Qod smilcth the people of
Nephi with pestilence; they repent and turn unto him
Samuel, a Lamanile, prophesies unto the NepItUes.
Behold, now it came to pass in the sixty and ninth
year of the reign of the judges over the people of the
Nephites, that Nephi, the son of Helaman returned to
the land of Zarahemla. from the land northward: for
he had been forth among the people who were in the
land northward, and did preach the word of God unto
them, and did prophesy many things unto them; and
they did reject all his words, insomuch that he could
not stay among them, but returned again unto the land
of hie nativity; and seeing the people in a state ofsuch
awful wickedness, and those Gadianton robbers filling
the judgment seats; having usurped the power andau­
thority of the land; laying aside the commandments of
God, and not in the least aright before him: doingno
justice unto the children of iperi; condemning the right­
eous because of their righteousness; letting the guilty
and the wicked go unpuished, because of their money;
and moreover, to be held in office at the head of govern­
ment, to rule and do according to their wills, thatthey
might get gain and glory of the world; and moreover
that they plight the more easy commit adultery, and
steal, and kill, and do according to their ovyn wills.
Now this great iniquity had come upon the Nephites,
in the space of not many years; and when Nephi saw
it, his heart was swollen with sorrow within his breast;
and he did exclaim in the agony of his soul, O that I
could have had my days, in the days' when my father
Nephi first came out of the land of Jerusalem, that I
could have joyed with him in the promised land; then
were his people easy to be entreated, firm to keep tha
commandments of God, and slow to be led to do ini­
quity; and theyNvere quick to hearken unto the words
of the Lord; yea,'if my days could have been in them
days, then would my soul have had joy in the right­
eousness of my brethren. But behold, I am consigned
that these are my days, -and that my soul shall be
BOOK OF HILAMAX. 4 5 1
filled with sorrow, because of this the wickedness of
my brethren. And behold, now it came to pass that
it was upon a tower, which was in the garden of Ne-
phi, which was by the highway which led to the chief
market, which was in the city of Zarahemla; there*
fore, Nephi had bowed himself upon the tower which
was in his garden, which tower was also near unto
the garden gate which Jed by the highway.
And it came, to pass that there were certain men
passing by, and saw Nephi as he was pouring out bis
soul unto God upon the tower, and they ran and told
the people what they had seen, and the people came
together in multitudes that they might know the
cause of so great mourning for the wickedness of
the people. And now when Nephi arose he beheld
the multitudes of people who had gathered togeth­
er. And it came to pass that he opened his mouth
and said unto them, behold, why have ye gathered
yourselves together? That I may tell you of your
iniquities? Yea, because I have got upon my tower,
that I might pour out my soul unto my God, be­
cause of the exceeding sorrow of my heart, which is
becauseofyour iniquities? And because of tny mourn­
ingand lamentation, ye have gathered yourselves to­
gether, and do marvel; yea, and ye have great need
to marvel; yea, ve had ought to marvel, because ye
are given away, that the devil has got so great hold
upon your hearts; yea, how could ye have given away
to the enticing of him who is seeking to hurt away
your souls down to everlasting misery and endless wot
0 repent ye, repent ye! why will ye diet Turn ye,
turn ye, unto the Lord your God. Why has he for­
saken you? It is because you have hardened your
hearts; yea, y% will not hearken unto the voice of the
good shepherd; yea, ye have provoked him to anger
against you. And behold, instead of gathering you,
except ye will repent, behold he shall scatter you forth
that ye shall hecome meat for dogs and wild beasts.
0 how could you have forgotten your God in the very
day that lie has delivered you? But behold, it is to
get gain, to be praised of men: yea, and that ye might
get goldand silver. And ye have set your hearts upon
the riches and the vain things of this world, for the
which ye do murdeiy and plunder, and steal, and bear
false'witness against your neighbor, and do all manner
ofiniquity; and for this cause wo shall come unto,yon
ex
cep
tyeshallrep
en
t. 'For if ye will notrep
en
t,,be-
“452 BOOK OF HELAMAIC.
hold thin great'city/ and also- all those great cities
which are round about, which are in the land of our
possession, shall be taken away, that ye shall have no
place in them, for behold, the Lord will not grant unto
you Strength, as lie has hitherto done, to Vvilhstand
against your enemies. For behold, thus saitlj the
Lord, I wilt not shew unto the wicked of,my strength,
to one more'.than the other, save it be unto those who
recent of their•sins, and hearken unto'nry words;
now therefore! would that ye slumld behold, tny breth­
ren, that it shall be better for the Lamanjtes titan for
yod,"*except ye shall repent; for behold they are more
righteous than you; for they have -not sinned against
that great knowledge which ye have received; there­
fore the Lord will be merctfAl unto them: yea, hewill
lengthen but their days and ' increase their seed, even
when thoushalt be utterly‘destroyed, except thou shall
repent; yea, wo be unto you because of that great
abomination which has come among youpand ye have
united yourselves unto it, yea, to that secret band
which was established by Gadianton; yea, wo shall
come unto you because of that pride which ye have
suffered to enter your hearts, which lias lifted you up
beyond that which is good because bf your exceeding
great riches* yea, wo be unto because of your wicked­
ness and abominations. And except ye repent, ye
shall perish; yea, evert your lands shall be taken front
you, and ye shall be destroyed from off the face ofthe
earth. Behold now I do not say that these things shall
be, of myself, because it is not of myself that J know
these things; but behold; I know that these things are
true, because the Lord God has made them known
unto me; therefore I testify that they shall be.
And now it came to pass that wherrNephi had said
these words, behold there were men who were judges,
who also belonged to the secret band of Gadianton,
and they were angry; and they cried out against him,
saying unto the people, why do ye not seize upon this
man and bring him forth, that he may be condemned
according to the Crime which he has done? Why sees!
this man, and hearest him revile against this people,
and against our law? %Fot behold, Nephthad'spoken
unto them concerning the corruptness of their law;
yea, many things-did Nephi speak which-cannot be
written; landnothing did- he s,peak which was contrary
-to-the commandments- of God".' Arid those judges
were angrywilh him because hespake-plain unto them
BOOK O F'H ElA M A H . 453
eoncerningtheir; secret works of darkness; neverthe­
less they durst not lap their own hands upon him; for
they fearedthe people, lest they-should cry out against
them: therefore they did cry unto the people, saying,
why do yc snffjr this man to revile against usT For
behold, he doth condemn all this people, even unto
destruction: yea, and also that 'these our great cities
shall be taken from us. that we shall have no place dn
them, And now'we know that this is impossible; for
behold we are powerful,' and our cities great; therefore
our eneihies can have no power over us. And it came
to pass that thus they did stir up the people to anger
against Niphi, and raised contentions among them;
for there were some who did cry out, let this man
alone, for he is a good man, and those things which
he saitli will surely come to pass except we repent;
yea, behold all the judgments willcome upon us which
he has testified unto us; l‘
o
<
r we know that he has tes­
tified aright unto us concerning our iniquities. And
behold they are many; and he knowelh as well all
things which shall befal us as he knoweth of our ini­
quities; yea, and behold if he had not been a prophet
he could not have testified concerning those things.
And it came to pass that those people who sought to
destroy Jfephi, were compelled because of their fear,
that they did not lay their hands on him. Therefore
he begm again to speak unto them, seeing that he had
gained favor'in the eyes of some, insomuch that the
remainder of them did fear. Therefore he was con­
strained to speak more unto them, saying, behold my
brethren, have ye not read that God gave power unto
one man, even ■Moses, to smite upon the waters of the
Rfed Saa, and they parted hither and thither, insomuch
that the Israelites, who were our fathers, came through
upon dryi'ground, and the waters closed upon the ar­
mies of the Egyptians, and swallowed thein up?
And now behold, if God/ gave unto this man such
power, then why should ye dispute among yourselves^
and say that he hath given unto me no power where­
by I may know concerning the judgments that shall
come upon you except'ye repent? But behold,.ye not
only deny my words, hut ye also deny all the words
which hath been spoken by our fathers, and also the
words which were .spoken by this man, Moses, who
had such groat power given Unto him; yea, thewords
which he hath spokeh concerning" the coming of- the
Messiah, Yea, did' he*not bear record* that the Son
454 BOOK OF HELAMAH.
of God should eome? And as he lifted up the brazen
serpent in the wilderness, even so shall he be lifted up
who should come. And as many as^should’look upon
that serpent should live, even so as'many as should
look upon the Son of God, with faith, having a con­
trite spirit, might live, even unto that life which is
eternal. And now behold* Moses did not only testi­
fy of these things, but also all the holy, prophets, from
his days even to the days of Abraham. Yea, and be­
hold, Abraham saw of his coming, and was filled with
gladness, and did rejoice. Yea, and behold I say un­
to you, that Abraham not only knew of>
•these tilings,
but there were many before the days of Abraham who
were called by the order of God; yea, even after the
order of his Son; and this that it should be shewn
unto the people a great many thousand years before
his coming, that even redemption should come unto
v
, them. And now 1 would-that ye should know, that
^ even since the days of Abraham, there have been ma­
ny prophets that have testified these things; yea, be­
hold, the prophet, Zenos did testify boldly; for the
which he was slain. And behold, also Zenocji, and
also Ezias, and also Isaiah, and Jeremiah, (Jeremiah
being that same prophet who testified of the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem.) And now we know that Jerusa­
lem was destroyed according to the words of Jeremi­
ah. O then why not the Son of God come, according
to bis prophecy? And now willye dispute that Jeru­
salem was destroyed? Will ye say that the sons of
Zedekiah were not slain-, all except it were Mulekl
Yea, and do ye not behold that the Beed of Zedekiah
are with U
B
>and they were diiven out of the land of
Jerusalem? But behold, this is not all. Our father
Lehi was.driven out of Jerusalem, because he testified
of these things. Nephi also testified of these things,
and also almost all of our fathere, even down to this
time; yea, they have testified of the coming of Christ,
and have looked forward, and have rejoiced in his da.y
which is to come. And behold, he is God, and heis
with them, and he did manifest himself unto them,
that they vyere redeemed by him; and they gaye unto
him glory, because of that which is to pome. And
now seeing ye know these things, and cannot deny
them, except ye shall lie, therefore in this ye have
sinned, for ye have rejected all these things, notwith­
standing so many evidences which ye have received;
yea, even ye have received ’all things, both things in
BOOK OF HELAMAK. 455
heaven, and all things which are in the earth, as a ,
witness that they 'are true. But behold, ye have re­
jected the'ttuth, and rebelled against your holy God;
and even at this time, instead of laying up for your­
selves treasures in heaven, where nothing doth cor­
rupt,-and where nothing can come which is Unclean,
ye are heaping up for yourselves wrath against the
day of judgment; yea, even at this time ye are ripen­
ing, because of your murders, and your fornication
and wickedness, for everlasting destruction; yea, and
except ye repent, it will come unto you soon; yea,
behold it is now even at your doors; yea, go ye in un­
to thejudgment seat, and search; and behold, your
judge is murdered, and he lieth in his blood; and he
hath been murdered by his" brother, who seeketh to
sit in the judgment seat- And'behold, they both be­
long to your secret band, whose author is Gadianton,
and the evil one who seeketh to destroy the souls of
men.
Behold now it came to pass that when Nephi had
spoken these words, certain men'who were among
them ran to the judgment seat; yea, even there were
five who went; and they said among themselves, as
they went, behold, now we will know of a ‘surety,
whether this man be a prophet, and God hath com­
manded him to prophesy such marvelous things unto
us. Behold we do not believe that he hath; yea, we
do not believe that he is a prophet; nevertheless, if
this thing which he has said concerning the chief '
judge be true; that he be dead, then will we believe
that the other words which he has spoken are true.
And it came to pass that they ran in their might, and ,
camejn unto the judgment seat; and behold the chief .
judge had fallen to the earth, and did lie in his blood.'
And now behold, when they saw this, they were as- '
tonisHed exceedingly, insomuoh that they fell to the
earth; for they had not believed the words which Ne-
phi had spoken concerning the chief judge; but new
When they saw they believed, and fear came upon
them, lest all the judgments which Nephi had spoken
should come upon the people; therefore they did
quake, and had felleri to the earth. Now immediate­
ly when the judge had-been murdered: -he being stab,
bed by his brother, by a garb o f secrecy; and 'he Bed,
and the servants ran and told the people, raising the
cry of mur'd*;; among them.' And behold;the peoplett
dia g
a
th
erthertfselves together unto the placfe-of the
456 BOOR OB HELAMAH.
judgment seat; and behold, to their astonishment,
they sow those five men who had fallen to tbp earth.
And now behold, the people knew nothing concerning
the multitude who had gathered togeiiicr at the gar­
den of’Nephi; therefore they said among themselves,
these men are they who have murdered the judge,
and God ''has smitten'.them that they could not tie#
from us., -
And it camo to pass that, they laid hold on them,
and hound them, and cast them-into prison. And
there was a proclamalioit sent abroad- that, the judge
was slain, and that the murderers had been taken, and
were cast into prison.' And if came to. pass that on
the morrow, the people did assemble themselves to­
gether to mourn and to fast, at the buriaj of the great
chiefjudge, who had been slain.. And thus were also
those judges who were at the garden of Nephi, and
heard Iris words, were also gathered together at the
burial. '
And it came to pass that they inquired among the
people, saying, where are the five who were sent to
inquire concerning the chief judge whether be was
dead? And they answered aqd said, ’concerning this
five whom ye say y‘
e have sept, \ve know not; hut
there are five, who are the murderers, whom we have
cast intoyrison. And it came to pass that the judges
desired that they should he brought; and they iwero
brought, and behold they were the five who were sent;
and behold the.judges inquired of them to know con*
earning tire matter, and they told .them all that they
had done, saying, we ran and came to.the place of the
judgment, arid when we saw all things, even as Nephi
had testified, we \Vcre astonished, insomuch that .we
fell to. the earth; and when ye ,were recovered from
our astonishment, behold they cast us into prison.—
Now as for the murder,of (his man,,wc know not who
has done it, and only this much we know, wq Tan and
came according as ye desired, and behold he was dead
according-to the words of NepJji. . \
And now it canre to pass, that, the judges did ex­
pound the matter unto the people, and did cry out
against Nephi, saying, behold we know that this Ne­
pal must have agreed with some one to slpy the judge,
and then he might declare it unto us, that he might
convert us.,unto his faith, that he might raise himself
^ to be 9. great-men, chosen of God*,and a prophet:.and
t bow behold ,we will detect this man, andjre sbali.con-
BOOK OP BELAMAB,
feu bis fault and make known unto us the true mur­
derer of this judge. And it came to pass that the five
were liberated on the day of the burial. Nevertheless,
they 4>d rebuke the judges in the words which they
h«a spoken against Nepni, and did contend with them
one by one, insomuch that they did confound them.
Nevertheless, they caused that Nephi should be taken
and bound and brought before the multitude, and they
began to question him in diverse ways, that they
might cross him, that they might acquse him to death;
saying unto him, thou art confederate: who is this
man that has done this murder? Now tell us, and ac­
knowledge thy fault, saying, behold hereis money;
and also we.will grant unto thee thy life if thou will
tell us and acknowledge the agreement which thou
hast made with him. But Nephi said unto them, O
ye foots, ye uncircumcised.of heart, ye blind, and ye
stiff-necked people, do ye know how long the Lord
your God will suffer you that ye shall go on in this
your way of sin? O ye had ought to begin to howl
and mourn, because.of the great destruction at this
time which doth await you, except ye shall repent.
Behold, ye say that I have agreed with a man, that he
should murder Seezoram, our chief judge. But be­
hold, [ say unto you, that this is because 1 have testi­
fied unto you, that ye might know concerning this
thing; yea, even for a witness untp you, that I did
know of the wickedness and abominations which are
amongyou. And because I have done this, ye say
that 1 have agreed with a man that he should do this
thing; yea, because 1 shewed unto you this sign, ye
are angry with me, and seek to destroy my life. And
now behold, I will shew unto you another sign, and
see if ye will in this thing seek to destroy me. Be­
hold I say utdo you, go to the house of Seanturn,*
who
| is the brother of Seezoram, and say unto him, has Ne­
phi, the pretended prophet, who doth prophesy so v
much evil concerning this people, agreed with thee,
in the which ye have murdeied Seezoram, who is
your brother? And behold, he shall say unto you,
nay. l^nd ye shall say unto him, have ye murdered
your brother? And he shall stand with fear, and vvist
not what to say. And behold, he shall deny unto
you; and he shall make as if he were astonished; nev­
ertheless, he shall declare unto you that he is inno­
cent. But behold, ye shall examine him, and ye shall
T
457
¥
BOOK OF HELAMAK.
find blood upon the skirts of his cloak.* And when
ye have seen this, ye shall say, from whence cometh
this blood? Do we not know that it is the blood of
your brother? And then shall he'tremble, and shall
look pale, even as if death'had come upon him. And
then shall ye say, because of this fear and this pale­
ness which has come upon your face, behold, we
know that thou art guilty. And then shall greater
fear corne dpon him; and then shall he confess unto
you, and deny no more that he lias done this murder.
And then shall he say unto you, that I, Nephi, know
nothing concerning the matter, save it were given un­
to me by the power of God. And then shall ye know
that I am an honest man, and that I am sent unto you
from God.
And it came to pass that they went and did, even
according as Nephi had said unto them. And behold,
the words which lie had said, were true; for accord-
ing to the words, he did deny; anil also according to
the words he did confess. And he was brought to
prove that he himself was the very murderer, inso­
much that the five were set at liberty; and also was
Nephi, And there were some of the Nephites who
believed on the words of Nephi; and there were soma
also, who believed, because of the testimony of the
five, for they had been converted while they were in
prison. And now there were some among the peo­
ple, who said that Nephi was a prophet; and there
were others who said, behold, he is a god, for except
he was a god, he could not know of all things. For
behold, lie has told us the thoughts of pur hearts, and
also has told us things; and even1he has brought unto
our knowledge the true murderer of our chiefjudge.
And it came to pass that there arose a division
among the people, insomuch that they divided hither
and thither, and went their ways, leaving Nephi
alone, as he was standing in the midst of them. And
it came to pass that Nephi went his way towards his
own house, ponderifig upon the. things which the
Lord had shewn unto him. And it came to pass as
he was thus pondering,—being much cast -down be­
cause of the wickedness of the people of the Nephites,
their secret works of darkness, and their murderings,
and their plunderings, and all manner of iniquities—
and it came to pass as he was thus pondering in bis
heart, behold,'a voice cafne unto him, saying, blessed
art thou, Nephi, for those tilings which thou hast
458 • *
done; for J have beheld how thou hast with unweary-
ingoess declared the word which I liaye given unto
thee, unto this people. And thou hast not feared
them, and hast not sought thine own life, but have
sought my will, and to keep my commandments. And
now because thou hast done this with such unweary-
ingr.ess, behold, I will bless thee forever; and I will
make thee mighty in word and in deed, in faith and
in works;' yea, even that ail things shall be done unto
thee according to thy word, for thou shall not ask that
which is contrary to my will. Behold, thou art Ne-
pbi, and I am God. Behold, -I declare it unto thee
in the presence of mine angels, that ye shall have
power over this people, and shall smite the earth with
famine, and with pestilence, and destruction, accord­
ing to the wickedness of this people. Behold, I give
unto you power, that whatsoever ye shall sehl on
earth, .shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever ye
shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven; and
thus shah ye have power among this people. And
thus, if ye shall say unto this temple, it shall be rent
in twain, it shall be done. And if ye shall say
unto this mountain, be thou cast do^vn and become
smooth, it shall be dope. And behold, if ye shall
say, that God shall smite this people, it shall come to
pass. And now behold, I command you that ye shall
E
oand declare untoi this people, that thus saith the
ord God, who is the Almighty,' except ye repeat, ye
shall be smitten, ev.cn unto destruction. .
And behold, now it came to pass that when the
Lord had spoken these words unto Nephi, he did stop,
and did.not go unto his own house, but did return un­
to the multitudes who were scattered about upon the
face of the land, and began to declare unto thpm the
word of the Lord, which had been spoken unto him
concerning their destruction, if they did not repent.
Now behold, notwithstanding that great miracle which
Nephi had done in telling them concerning the death
of tlrp'chief judge, they did harden their hearts, and
did not hearken unto the words of the Lord; therefore
Nephi did declare unto them the .word of the Lord,
saying,1egeept ye repent, thus saith the Lord, ye shall
he smitten even unto destruction. And it .came to
pass that when Nephi Had declared unto them the
word, behold, they did still .harden their hearts, and
Woufd apt hearken unto his words; therefore they did
tevile against him, a
n
d d
id seek to lay the*! hands
BOOS OW HELAJfAK. 4*9
■
f
upon him, that they might'cast him into prison. But
behold, thp power of God was with Kim, and they
could not take hitn to cast him into'prison, for he
was taken by the spirit, and conveyed away out of
the midst of them. *
And'it came to pass that thus he did go forth in the
spirit, from multitude to multitude, declaring the word
of God, even until he had declared it unto them.all', or
sent it fortli among all the ‘people. ‘ And it came to
pass that they wopld not hearken unto his words;
and there began to be contentions, insompch that they
were divided against themselves, and began .to slay
one another with the sword. And thus ended the
seventy and first year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi. '
460 BOOK OF HKUAMAK.
CHAPTER IV. ' ‘ *
Am
d now it came to,pass in the seventy and second
year of the reign of the judges, that the contentions did
increase, insomuch that there' were wars throughout
all the land among all the people of Nephi. And it
was this secret band of robbers who did carry on this
work of destruction and wickedness. And this war
did last all that year. And in the seventy and third
year it did also last.
And it came to pass that in ’this year, Nephi did
cry unto the Lord, saying, O Lord do not suffer that
this people shall be destroyed by the sword; but 0
Lord, rather let theTe be a famine in the land, to stir
them up in remembrance of the Lord their God, and
perhaps they will repent and turn unto1thee; and so
it was done, according to tpe words of Nephi. And
there was a great famine upon the land, hmong all the
people of Nephi. And thus, in theseventy and fourth
year, the famine did continue, and the work of des­
truction did cease by"the sword, but‘became sore by
famine. And this workofdestruction did also contin­
ue in the seventy and fifth year. For the earth was
smitten that it whs dry, and did not yield forth grain
in .the season of grain; and the whole earth,'wap smit­
ten, even'among the Lamanites aswellasamongthe
Nephiths, so' tbat they wefe- fc
in
itten that* they did
BOOK OF HEBAMAK. 461
pariah by thousands, in the mote wicked parts* of the
land.
And it catne to pass that the people saw that they
were about to perish by famine, and they began to re­
member the Lord their God; and they began to re­
member the words of Nephi. And the people began
to plead with their chiefjudges and their leaders, that
they would say unto Nephi, behold, we know that
thou art a man of God, and therefore cry unto the
Lord our God, that he turn away from us this famine,
lest all the words which thou hast spoken concerning
our destruction, be fulfilled. * And it came to pass
that thejudges did say unto Nephi, according to the
words which had been desired. And it came to pass
that when Nephi saw that the people had repented,
and did humble themselves in sackcloth, he cried
again unto the Lord, saying, O Lord, behold this peo­
ple repenteth; and they have swept away the band
ofGadianton from amongst them, insomuch that they
have become extinct, and they have concealed their
secret plans in the earth. Now, O ‘Lord, because of
this their humility, wilt thou turn away-thine anger,
and let thine anger be appeased in the destruction of
those wicked men whom thou hast already destroyed!
0 Loid, wilt thou turn away thine anger, yea, thy
fierce anger, and cause that this famine may cease in
this land! O Lord, wilt thou hearken unto me, and
cause that it may be done according,to my words, and
send forth rain upon the face of the earth, that she
raay bring forth her fruit and her grain, in the season
ofgrain! O Lord, thou didst hearken unto my words
when I said, let there be a famine, that the pestilence
ofthe sword might cease; and I know that thou wilt,
even at this time, hearken unto my words, for thoa
*oid, that jf this phople repent, 1 will spare them;
yea, 0 Lord, and thou seest that they have repented,
because of the famine, and the pestilence and destruc­
tion which has come unto them.' And now, O Lord, *
wHt thou turn away thine anger, and tiy again if they
will serve thee! And if so, O Lord, thou cans! Mess
them according to thy words which thou hast said.
And it oame to pass that in'the. seventy and sixth
yev, the Lord did turn away his anger from the peo­
ple, and caused that rain should fall upon the earth,
insomuch that it did bring forth her-fruit in theseason
hr.her fruit. -And it came to -pass that ,it did bring
wrth her grain, in the season of her grain. And be-
BOOK OF HELAMAK.
hold, the people did rejoice„and glorify God, and the
whole face of the land was filled with rejoicing; and
they did ho more seek to destroy Nepbi, but they did
esteem him as a great prophet, and a man of God,
having |reat power and authority given unto him from
God. And behold, Lehi, his brother^ was not a whit
behind him as to things pertaining to righteousness.
And thus it did come to pass that the people of Nephi
began to prosper again in the land, and began to build
up their waste places, and began to multiply and
spread, even until they did cover the whole face of the
land, both on the northward and on the southward,
from the sea west,' to the sea east,. And it came to
pass that the seventy and sixth year did end in peace.
And the seventy and seventh year began in peace;
and the church did spread thoughout the face of all
the land; and the more part of the people, both the
Nephites and the Lamanites, did belong to the church;
and they, did have exceeding great peace in the land,
and thus ended the seventy and seventh year. And
also they had peace in the seventy and eighty year,
save it were a few contentions concerning the points
of doctrine which had been laid down by the prophets.
And in the seventy and ninth’year,, there began lobe
much strife. But it came to pass that Nephi and Le-
hi, and many of their brethren, who knew concerning
the true points of doctrine, having many revelations
daily/therefore they did preach unto the people, inso­
much that they did put an end to their strife in that
same year. .
And it came to pass that in the eightieth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there
were a certain number of the dissenters from the peo­
ple of Nephi, who had some years before gone over
unto the Lamanites, and .took upon tbeajselves the
name of Lamanites; anti also, a certain number who
were real descendants of th§ Lamanites, beingtstirred
up to anger.by them, ®r by-those dissenterh, therefore
they commenced a war with their brethren. And
they did commit murder and plunder; and then they
would retreat back into the mountains, and into the
wilderness and secret places, hiding, themselves that
they, could not be discovered, receiving doily an addi­
tion to their numbers, inasmuch as there were dissent­
ers that went forth-unto theip; and thus in time, yea»
even in the space.of not.many years, they* became an
exceeding great band ofrobbers;,and they did search
4 6 3
BOOK OP HELAMAW.
out all the secret plana of Gadianton; and thus they
became robbers of Gadianton. Now behold, these
robbers did make great havoer yea,'even great destruo-
truction among tlie people of Nephi, and also among
the people of the Lamanites. *
And.it eame to pass that it w.asexpedient that there
should be a stop put to this, work of destruction; there­
fore they sent an army of strong men into the wilder­
ness, and upon the mountains to search out tiiis band
ofrobbers, and to destroy them. But behold, it came
to pass that in that same year, they were drivSn back
eves into their own lands. And thus ended the eight­
ieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi. . 1
And it came to pass in the commencement of the
eighty and first year, they did go forth again against
this band of robers, and did destroy many; and they
were also visited with much destruction; and they
were again obliged to return out of the wilderness,
and out of the mountains, unto their own lands, be­
cause of the exceeding greatness of the numbers of
those robbers who infested the mountains and the
wilderness. And it came to pass that thus ended
this year. And the robbers did still increase and wax .
strong, insomuch that they did defy the whole armies
ofthe Nephites, and also of the Lamanites; and they
did cause great fear to come unto the people, upon au
the face of the land; yea, for they did visit many
parts of the lpnd, and did do peat destruction unto
them; yea, did kill many, and did carry away others
captive into the wilderness; yea, and more especially
their women and their children. Now this great evil,
which came unto the people because of their iniquity
did stir them up again in remembrance of the Lord
their God. And thus ended the eighty and first year a,
ofthe reign of the judges. And in the eighty and seo-
ond year, they began again to forget the Lord their
God. 'And in the eighty and third year, they began
to wax strong in iniquity. And in the eighty and
fourth year, they did not mend their ways. And it
came to pasB-in the eighty and fifth year, they did
w p stronger and stronger in their pride, and in their
wickedness; and thus they were ripening again for
destruction. And thus ended the eighty and fifth
year. And thus we can behold how false, and also
the unsteadiness of the hearts of the children"ofmen;
yea, we can see that the Lord in his great infinite
BOOK OK KXLAMAIT.
goodness, doth bless and prosper those who put their
trust in him; yea, and we may see at the very time
when he doth prosper his people; yea, in the increase
of their fields, .their flocks, and their herds, and in
gold, and in silver, and in all manner of precious things
of every kind, and art; sparing their lives,'and deliv.
ering them ou.t of the hands of their enemies; soften*
ing the hearts of theirepemies, that they should not
declare war? against them; yea,' and in iiner doing all
things for the welfare' and happiness of his people;
yea, then is the time that they do harden their hearts,
and do forget the Lord their God, and do trample un-
der their feet the Holy One; yea, and this because of
their ease, and their exceeding great prosperity. And
thus we see,,that except the Lord doth chasten his
people with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit
them with death, and with terror, and with famine,
and with all manner of -pestilences, they will'not re­
member him. O how foolish, and how vain, and how
evil, and devilish, and how quick to do iniquity, and
how slow to do good, are the children of men; yea,
how quick to hearken unto the words of the evil one,
and to" set their hearts upon the vain things of the
world; yea, how quick to be lifted up in pride; yea,
f. how*quick to boast, and do all manner of that which
is iniquity; and hoiv slow are they to remember the
Lord their God, and to give ear unto his counsels;
yea, how slow to walk in wisdom’s paths! -Behold,
they do not desire that the Lord their God, who hath
created them, should rule and reign over them, not­
withstanding his great goodness and his mercy towards
them; they do set at nought his counsels, and they
will not that he should be their guide. O how great
is the nothingness of-the Children of men; yea, even
they are less than the dust of the earth. For behold,
the dust of the earth moveth hither and thither, to the
dividing asunder, at the command of our great and ev­
erlasting God; yea, behold, at his voice doth the hills
and the,mountains trembleand quake; and by [lifepow­
er of his voice they are broken up, and becomesmooth,
yea, even like unto a valley; yea, by the power ofhis
voice doth the whole earth sha,ke^ yea, by the power
of his voice, doth the foundations rock, even to the
very center; yea, and if he say unto the earth, move,
it is moved; yea, if -he say unto the earth, then
shalt go back, that ;it lengthen out the day for many
hours,;; it is done; and thusaccording to his word,
464
BOOK O f HEAIKAK. 465
tbe earth goelh back, and it appeareth unto man that
the son atandelh atilt; yea, and behold, this is so; for
sureit ie the earth that moyeth, and not the sun. And
behold, alsp, if he say unto ^he waters of the great
<bep,'be thOu dried up, it is done. Behold, if he
ay unto this mountain, be thou raised up, and come
jver and fall upon that city, that it be buried up,
behold it is done. And behold, if a man hide up a
treasure in the earth, and-the Lord shall say, let it be
accursed, because of the iniquity of him who hath hid
it up, behold, it shall be accursed: and if the Lord
shall say, be.thou accursed, that ho man shall find thee
from Inis time henceforth and .forever, behold, no
man getteth it henceforth and forever. And behold if
the Lord shall say unto a man, because of thine iniqui­
ties thou shalt be accursed forever, it shall be done.—
-
Andif the Lord shalt say, because of thine iniquities*
thou shalt be cut off from my presence, he will cause
that it shall be so. And wo unto him to whom be
shall say this, for it shall be unto him that will do ini­
quity, and he cannot be saved; therefore, for this
cause, that men might be saved, hath repentance been
declared. Therefore, blessed are they who will repent
andhearken unto the voice of the Lord their God; for
these are they that shall be saved. And may God
grant, in bis great fulness, that men might be brought
untorepentance and good works, that they might be
restoredunto grace, for grace according to their works.
AndI would tiiat all men might be saved. But we
readthat in that great and last day, there are some
whoshall be cast out; yea, who shall be cast offfrom
the presence of the Lord; yea, who shall be consign­
ed to a state ot endless miseiy, fulfilling the word®
whichsay, they that have done good, shall have ev­
erlasting life; and they that have done evil, shall have
^everlasting damnation. And thus it is. Amen. , ‘
' ■
* . <
t
466 B 0 0 £ OP HEALM iB,
CHAPTER, V.
THE PROPHECY OF SAMUEL, THE
LAMANITE, TO THE NEPII1TES. ■
-
+ i
Asd now it came to pass in the eighty and sixth
year, the Nephites did stilt remain in wickedness, yea,
in great wickedness, while the Lamaniles did observe
strictly to keep the commandments of God, according
to the law of Moses. And it came to pass that in this
year, there was one,Samuel, a Lamanite, came into
the land of Zarahemla, and began to. preach unto tbe
"people. And it came to pass that he did preach many
days, repentance unto the people, and they did cast
him,out, and he was about to return to his own land.
But behold, the voice of the Lord came unto him,
that he should return again, and proyhesy unto the
people whatsoever things should come into his heart
And it came to pass that they would not suffer that
he should enter into the city; therefore he went and
got upon the wall thereof, and stretched forth his
hand and cried with a loud voice, and prophesied unto
the people, whatsoever things the Lord put into his
heart; and he said unto them, behold, 1, Samuel, a
Lamanite, do speak the words of the Lord which he
doth put into my heart; and behold he hath put it in
*
to my heart to say unto this people, that the swordof
justice hangetli over this people; and four hundred
years passetn not away save the sword of justice fall*
eth upon this people; yea, heavy destruction awaitelh
this people, and it surely cometh unto this people, and
nothing can save this people, save it be repentance
and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, who surely shall
come into the world, ahd shall suffer muny things, and
shall be slain for his people. And behold, an angel of
the Lord hath declared it unto me, and he did bring
glad tidings to- my soul. And behold, I was sent unto
you to declare it unto you also, that ye might have
glad tidings; but behold ye would not receive m
e,
therefore thud saith the Lord, because of the hardness
ofthe hearts of the people of the Nephites, except they
repent I will take away my word, from them, and I
will withdraw my spirit from them, and I will suffer
them no longer, and I will turn the hearts of their
brethren against them; and four hundred years shall
not pass away, before I will cause that they shall bs
I
smitten; yea, I will visit them with the*1sword, and
with famine, and with pestilence; yea, I will visit
them in my fierce linger, and there shall be those of
the fourthgeneration, who shall live, of your enemies,
to behold your utter destruction; and this shall surely
come, except ye repent, saith the Lord: and those
ofthe fourth generation shall visit your destruction.—
But if ye will repent and return unto .the Lord your
God, I will turn away mine anger saith the Lord; yea,
thus saith the Lord, blessed are they who will repent
and turn unto me, but wo unto him that repenteth
not; yea, wo unto this great city of -Zaraliemla; for
behold it is because of those who are righteous, that it
is eaved; yea, wo unto this great city, for I perceive,
saith the Lord, that there are many, yea, even the
morepart ofthis great city that will harden their hearts
against me saith the Lord. But blessed are they who
will repent, for them will I spare. But behold if it
werenot for the righteous who are in this great city,
beholdI would cause that fire should come down out
of heaven, and destroy it. But behold, it is for the
righteous’ sake, that it is spared. But behold, the
timecometh, saith the Lord, that when ye shall cast
out the righteous from among you, then shall ye be
ripe for destruction; yea, wo be•unto this great city,
becauseofthe wickedness and abominations-which are
inher; yea, and wo be unto the city of Gideon, for
thewickedness and abominations which are in her;
vea, and wo be unto all the cities which are in the
landround about, which are possessed by the Nephites,
becauseof the wickedness and abominations which are
in them; and behold, a curse shall come upon the
land, saith the Lord of Hosts, because of the people’s
sake who are upon the land; yea, because of their
wickedness and their’abominations. V
And it shall pome to pass, saith the Lord of Hosts,
* yea, our great apd true God, that whoso shal^hide up
treasures in the earth, shall find them again no more,
because of the great curse of the land, save he be &
righteous man, and shall hide it up unto' the Lord, for
1 will saith the Lord, that they shall hide up their
•reasures unto me; and cursed be they who hide not
up their treasures unto me; for none hidelh up theix;
treasures unto me save it he the righteous; and he
tnatfhideth not-up his treasures unto me, cursed is he,
‘^uleA the treasure, and noire shall redeem it because
« the curse of the land,a And the day shall come that
BOOK OP HELAMAN. 467
468 BOOK O f HELAHAI*.
they shall hide up their treasures, because they bare
set their hearts upon riches; and' because they bare
set thfeir hearts upon their riches, I will hide up their
treasures when they shall flee before their enemies,
because they will not hide them up unto me; cursed
be they, and also their treasures;, and in that daysbali
tliay be smitten, saitli the Lord. Behold ye, the pee-
pie of this great city, and hearken unto my words;
yea, hearken unto the words which the Lord saith; for
behold, he saith that ye are cursed because of your
riches, and also are your riches cursed becauseye hare
set your hearts upon them, and have not hearkened
unto the words of him who gave them unto you. Y
e
do not remember the Lord your God in the things
which he hath blessed you, but ye do always remem­
ber your riches, not to thank the Lord your God for
them; yea, your heart is not drawn out unto the Lord,
but they do swell with great pride, unto boasting, and
unto great swelling, envyings, strifes, malice, perse­
cutions, and- murders, and all manner of iniquities.
For this cause hath the Lord God caused that a curse
should come upon the land, and also upon yourriches;
and this because of your iniquities;' yea, wo unto this
people, because of this time which has arriven, that
ye do cast out the prophets, and do mock them, and
cast stones at them, and do slay them, and do alt
manner of iniquity unto them, even as they did ofold
time. And now when ye talk, ye say, if our daysW
been in the days of our fathers of old, ye wouldnot
have slain the prophets; ye would not have stonsd
them, and cast them out. * Behold ye are worse than
they; for as the Lord liveth, if a-prophet come am
ong
you, and dectarelh unto you the word of the Lord,
which testifieth of your sins and iniquities, ye are an
*
grjr with him, and cast him out, anti seek all manner
of ways to destroy him; yea, you will Bay that he isa
false prophet, and that he is,a sinner, and of the dev*<
il, because he lestifleth that your deeds are evil.
behold, ifa man shall come among you,'and shall *M
i
do this, and there is no iniquity; do that,, and ye shall
not suffer; yea, he will say, walk after the pride of
your own hearts; yea, walk after the pride of y«°J
eyes, and do. whatsoever your heart desireth; asn
if a man shall come among you and say this, ye w
ffl
receive him, and say that fie is a ■prophet) yea, ye
lift him fup, and ye will give unto him of your sob*
stance; ye will give unto bhnof yourgold, andof
- ■
BOOK OP HBLAMAIf. 469
jilrer, and ye will clothe him with costly apparel; and
because he speaketh flattering words unto you, and he
gaith that all is .well, then ye will not fipd, fault
with him. O ye wicked and ye perverse generation;
ye hardened and ye stiffnecked people, how long will
ye suppose that the Lord will suffer you:, yea, how
longwill ye suffer yourselves to be led by ifoolish and
blindguides; yea, how long will ye choose darkness
rather than light; yea, behold the anger of the Lord is
already kindled against you; behold, he hath cursed
theland,, because of1your iniquity; and behold, the
time cometh that he curseth your riches, 1hat it be-
cotnethslippery, that ye cannot hold them; and in the
daysof your poverty ye cannot retain them; and in
thedays of your poverty, ye shall cry unto the Lord;
and invain shall ye cry, for your desolation is already
come upon you, and your destruction is m&cle sure;
and then shall ye weep and howl in that day, saith
the Lord of Hosts. And then shall ye lament, and
say, 0 that I had repented, and had not killed the
prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out; yea,
inthat day ye shall say, O that we had remembered
theLord our God, in the day that he gaife us our
riches, and then they would not have become slippery,
that we should lose them; for behold, our riches are
gonefrom us. Behold, we lay a tool hefe, and on the
morrowit is gone; arid behold, our swords are taken
fromus in the day we have sought them for battle.—
Tea, we have hid up our treasures, and they have slip-
| pedaway from us, becarise of the curse of the land.—
0 that we had repented in the day that the word of
the Lord came unto us; for behold the land is cursed,
andall things are become slippery, and we cannot hold
them
, Behold we are surrounded by debponsj yea, we
we encircled about by the angels of him who hath
sought'to destroy our souls. Behold, our iniquities
aregreat. Q Lord, const thou not turn away thine
anger from usT And this shall be your language in
those-days. But behold, your days of probation ore
ye haveprocrastinated the day of your salvation,
onul it |g everlastingly too late, and your destruction
n made'sure; yea, for ye have’ sought all the days of
par lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye
have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which
thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness
®
“teh ism oar great and Eternal Head/ O ye people
« thetad, thatye would hear my words. 'Arid I pray
470 BOOS OF BKLAHAX.
that the anger of the Lord be turned away from you,
and that ye would repent and be saved.
And now it came to pass that Sjamuel, the Lamanite,
did prophesy a great many more things which cannot
be written. And behold, he ^aid unto them, behold, I
give Unto you a sign:’ for five years more cometh, and
behold, then cometh the Son of God to redeem all
those who shall believe on his name. An'd behold,
tins will I give unto you for a sign at the time of his
coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in heav­
en,. insomuch that in the night before he cometh, there
shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear un­
to man as if it was day; therefore there shall be one
day and a night, and a day, as if it were one day, and
there were no night; and this shall be unto you fora
sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun, and
also of its setting; therefore they shall know ofa sure­
ty that there shall be two days and a night; neverthe­
less the night shall not be darkened; and it shall be
the night before he is born. And behold there shalU
new star arise, such an ■
one as ye never have beheld;
and this also shall be a sign unto you. And behold
this is not all, there shall be many signs and wonders
in heaven. And it shall come to pass that ye shall all
be amazed, and wonder, insomuch tbatrye shall fallto
the earth. And it shall come to pass that whosoever
shall believe on the Son of God, the same shall have
everlasting life. And behold, thus hath the Lord
commanded me, by his angel, that I should come and
tell this thing unto you; yea, he hath commanded
that I should prophesy these things ui)to you; yea, he
hath said unto me, cry unto this people, repent and
prepare the way of the Lord. And now because I am
a Lamanite, ‘and have spoken unto you the w
ords
which the Lord hath commanded me, and because it
■was hard against you, ye are angry with me, andda
seek to destroy me, and have cast me out from am
ong
you. And ye shall hear my words, for, for this intent
I have come up upon the waifs of this city, that ye |
might hear and'know of the judgments of God w
hich
do await you because of your iniquities^ and alsothat
yemightknow the conditions of repentance; andalso
that’ ye might k'now of the coming of Jesus Christ)
the Sonof God, the Father of heaven and of eartbi
the Creator of all things, fro
mtthe beginning; and
that ye might k
nowofthe sign? of coining, tow
s
intentthatye.might belieye onh
i?n
a
m
e
,;. .A
n
d
,if-
J
«
BOOK o r HELAHAN. 471
believe on his name, ye will repent of all your sins>
that thereby ye may have a remission of them through
his merits. And behold, again another sign I give un­
to you; yea, a sign of his death; ■for behold, he surely
must die, that salvation may come; yea, it behooveth
him, and becometh expedient that he dieth, to bring
topass the resurrection of the dead, that thereby men
may be brought into the presence of the Lord; yea,
beholdthis death bringeth to pass the resurrection, and
redeemeth all mankind from the first death; that spir­
itual death for all mankind, by the fall of Adam, being
cut offfrom the presence of the Lord, or considered as
dead, both as tp things temporal and to things spiritu­
al. But beholdpthe resurrection of Christ redeemeth
mankind, yea, evert all mankind, and bringeth them
back into the presence of the Lord; yea, and it bring­
eth to pass the condition of repentance, that whosoev­
errepenteth, the same is not hewn ddwn and cast into
the fire; but whosoever repenteth not, is hewn down
and cast into the fire, and there comelh upon them
again a spiritual death, yea, a second death, for they
arecut offagain as to things pertaining to righteous­
ness; therefore repent ye, repent ye, lest by knowing
these things and not doing them, ye shall suffer your­
selves tocome under condemnation, and ye are brought
down.unto this second death. But behold, as I said
untoyou concerning another sign, a sign of his death,
behold, in that day that he shall suffer death, the sun
shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto
you; and also the moon, and the stars; and there shall
beno light upon the face of this land, even from the
tim
e that he shall suffer death, for the space of three
days, to tiie time that lie shall rise again from the
dead; yea, at the time that he shall yield up the ghost,
there shall be thunderings and lightnings for the space
ofmany hours, and the earth shall shake and tremble,
and the rocks which are upon the face of this.earth,
which are both above the earth and beneath, which ye
knowat this time are solid, or the more part of it is
onesolid mass, shall be broken up? yea, they shall be
tent in twain, and shall ever after be found in seams'
andin cracks, and in broken fragments upon the fkce
ofthe whole earth; yea, both above the earth and be­
neath. And behold there shall be great tempests, and
there shall be many mountains laid low, like unto a
valley, and there shall be many places, which are now
tailed valleys, which shall become mountains, whose
472 BOOK OF BELAUAK.
height thereof is great. And many highways shall be
broken up, and many cities shall become desolate, and
many"graves shall be opened,.and shall yield up many
of.their dead; and many saints shall appear unto ma­
ny. And behold thus hath the angel spoken unto me;
for he said unto me, that there should be thundering^
and lightnings for the space of many hours; and be
said unto me that while the thunder and the lightning
lasted, and^the tempest, that these things should be,
and that darkness should cover the face of the whole
earth, for the space of three days. And the angelsaid
unto me that many shall see greater tilings than these,
to the intent that they might believe that these signs
and these wonders should come to pass, upon all the
face of this land; to the intent that there should beno
cause for unbelief among the children of men; andthis
to the intent that whosoever will believe, might besa­
ved, and that whosoever will not believe, a righteous
judgment might come upon them; and also if they are
condemned, they bring upon themselves their own
condemnation. And now remember, remember, m
y
brethren, that whosoever perishelh, perisheth unto
himselt; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doethitunto
himself; for behold ye are -free; ye are permitted to
act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto
you a knowledge, and he hath made you free; hehath
given unto you that ye might know good fromevil,
and he hath given unto you that ye might choose life
or death, and ye can do goodand be restored untothat
which is good, or have that which is goodrestored un­
to you; or ye can do evil, and have that which is evil
restored unto you. And now my beloved brethren,
behold, I declare unto you that except ye shall repent,
your houses shall be left unto you desolate; yea, ex­
cept ye repent, your women shall have great causeto
mourn in the day that they shall give suck: for ye
shall attempt to flee, and there shall be no place for
refuge; yea, and wo unto them which are with child,
for they shall be heavy, and cannot flee; therefore
they shall be trodden down, and shall be left to perish;
vea, wo unto this people who are called the people of
Nephi, except they shall repent when they shall seeall
these signs and wonders which shall be showed unto
them; for behold, they have been a chosen people of
the Lord; yea, the people of Nephi hath he loved, and
also hath he chastened them; yea, in the days of their
iniquities hath he chastened them, because ,he loveth
BOOS O f HELAHAH.
them. But behold my.bretbxen^ the Lamanites bath
hehated, because their dee ds have, been evilContinu-
allyj and.this because of the. iniquity of 4 he tradition
oftheir father^. But behold, salvation hath come un­
to them, through the. preaching of the Nephites; and
forthis intent hath the Lord prolonged their days.—
Audi would that ye should behold that the niore part
ofthemare-in the path of their duty, and.they do walk
circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep
his commandments, and his statutes, and bis judg­
ments, according to thdlaw of Moses. Yea, I say un­
toyou, that the more part of Ihem are doing this, apd
they are striving, with unwearied diligence, that they
maybringthe remainder of their brethren to the knowl­
edgeof the truth; therefore there are many who do
add to their numbers daily. And behold ye do know
of yourselves, for ye have witnessed it, that as many
ofthem as are brought to the knowledge of the truth,
and to know of the wicked; and abominable traditions
of their fathers, and are led to believe the holy scrip­
tures, yea, the prophecies ofthe holy prophets, which
arewritten, which leadeth there to lakh on the Lord,
andunto repentance, which faithand repentance bripg-
etha change of heart unto them;- therefore as many
as have come to this, ye know of yourselves, are firm
andsteadfast in the faith, and in the thing .wherewith
they have, been made free. And ye know also that
they have buried their weapons of war, and they lea*
totake them up, lest by any means they should sin;
yea, ye can see that they fear to sin; for behold, they
will sutler themselves that they be trodden down and
slain by their enemies, and will not lift their swords
against them; and this.because oftheirfaith in Christ.
Andnow because of their steadfastness when, they do
believe in that thing which they do believe;, for be­
cause of their firmness;when they are once enlighten­
ed, behold the Lord shall bless them and prolong thei*
days, notwithstanding their iniquity;; yea, even if they
should-dwindle in unbelief, the Lord aboil prolong
their.days until the.lime shall come which hath been
spoken of by our fathers, and also by the, prophet Ze-
Boland manyother prophets, concerning the restora*
honofi,our brethren, the Lamanitee again, . to. the
&Bpwledge of the truth; -yea, l eay unto you, that in
melatter times, the. promises of the Lord hath been
extendedto our brethren, tueLamanites; and notwith-
473
474 BOOK OF HEOAWAF.
standing the many afflictions which 'they shall have,
and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro
upon the face of the earth, -and be hunted, and shall
be smitten and scattered abroad, having no place for
refuge, the Lord shall be merciful unto them; and this
is according to the prophecy, that they shall be brought
to the true knowledge, .’which is the knowledge of
their Redeemer, and their great and true Shepherd,
and be numbered among his sheep. Therefore I say
unto you, it shall be better for them than for you, ex­
cept ye repent. For behold, had the mighty works
been shewn unto them which have been shewn unto
you; yea, unto them who have dwindled in unbelief
because of the traditions of their father#* ye can seeof
yourselves, that they never would again have dwindled
in unbelief; therefore, saith the Lord, I will not utter­
ly destroy them, but I will cause that in the day of
my wisdom, they shall return again unto me, saitb
the Lord. And now behold, saith the Lord, concern­
ing the peoplepf the Nepbites, if they will not repent,
and observe'to do my will, I will utterly destroy them
saith the Lord, because of their unbelief, notwithstan­
ding the many mighty works which I have done
* ’ the Lord liveth, shall
And now it oarne to pass that there were many who
heard the words of Samuel, the Lamanite, which he
spake upon the walls of the city. And as many asbe­
lieved on his word, went forth and sought for Nepbi;
and when they had come forth and found him, they
confessed unto him their(sins and denied not, desiring
that they might be baptized unto the Lord. But as
many as there were who did not believe in the words
of Samuel, were angry with him; and they cast stones
at him updn the wall, and also many shot arrows at
him, as he stood upon the wall; but the spirit ofthe
Lord was With1
hint, insomuch that they could not hit
him with their stones; neither with their arrows.—
Now When they saw, this, that they could not hit him,
there were many more who did'believe on his words,
insomuch that they went away untO'Nepbi to be bap­
tized. For behold, Nephi was baptizing, and prophe­
sying, and preaching, crying repentance unto the peo­
ple; shewing signs and wonders; working miracles
among the people, that they might know that the
Christ mUBt shortly comet telling them oi thing®
which must shortly come, that they might know and
BOOK o r B X L A M A S, 475
remember at the time of their coming that the; had
been made known unto them beforehand, to the in­
tent that the; might believe; therefore an many as be­
lieved on the words of Samuel, went forth unto him
to be baptized, for the; came repenting.and confessing
their sins. But the more part of them did not believe
in the words of Samuel;, therefore when they saw that
they could not hit him with their stones and their ar­
rows, the; cried out unto their captains, spying,'"take
this fellow and bind him, for behold, he bath a devil,*
and because ofthe poster of the devil which is in him,
we cannot hit him with our stones, and our arrows;
therefore take him and bind him, and away with hum
And as the; went forth to la; their hands on him, he­
boid, he did cast himself down from the wall, and did
fleeout of their lands, yea, even unto his own country,
and began to preach and to prophesy among his own
people. And behold, be was never heard of mere
amongthe Nephites; and thus were the affairs of the
people. And thus ended the eight; and sixth year of
the reignof the judges over the people of Nephi. And
thus ended, also, the eighty and seventh year of the
reignofthejudges, the more partof the people remain­
ingin thejr pride and wickedness; and the lesser part
walking more circumspectly before God. And these
were the conditions also, in the eighty and eighth year
of the reign of the judges. And there was but little
alteration in the affairs of the people, save it were the
people began to, be more hardened in iniquity, and do
more and more of that which was contrary to the com­
mandments of God, in the eighty and ninth year of
thereign of the judges. ..
But it came to pass in the ninetieth year of the
feign of the judges, there were great signs given unto
the people, and wonders; and the words of the pro­
phets began to be fulfilled; and angels did appear unto
men, wise men, and did declare unto them glad tidings
of great joy; thus in this year the scriptures began to
befulfilled. Nevertheless, the people began to harden
their hearts, all save it were' the most believing part
ofthem, both of the Nephites, ard also of the Laman-
ites, and began to depend upontheir own strength, and
opon their own wisdom, saying, some things they may
havd guessed right, among so many; but behold, we
•now that all these great and marvelous works cannot
<Wie fo pass, of which has been spoken. And they
began to reason .and to contend among themselves,
476 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
saying, that it is not'reasonable that suoh a being as a
Christ shall come; if so, and he be the Son of God,
the Father of heaven and of earth, as it has been
spoken, why will he not shew himself unto us, as well
as unto them who shall be at Jerusalem? Yea,4why
will be not shew himself in this land, as well as in the
land of Jerusalem? But behold, we know that this is
a wicked tradition, wbifeh has been handed down unto
us by oar fathers, to cause us that we should believe
in some great and marvelous thing which should come
to pass, but not among ns, but in a land which is fer
distant, a land whioh we know not; therefore they can
keep ns in ignorance, for we cannot witness with our
own eyes that they are true. And they will, by the
cunning and the mysterious arts of the evil one, work
some great mystery, whioh we cannot understand,
which'will keep us down to beservants to their words,
and also servants unto them, for we depend upon them
to teach us the word; and thus will they keep us in
ignorance, if we will yield ourselves unto them all the
days of our lives. And many more things did the
people imagine up in their hearts; which were foolish
and vain; and .they were much disturbed, for satan did
stir them up to do iniquity continually; yea, he didgo
about, spreading rumors and contentions upon all the
face Of the land, that he might harden the hearts of
the people against that which was good, and against
that which should come; 'and;notwithstanding the
signs and the wonders which were wrought among the
people of the Lord, and the many miracles which they
aid, satan did get great hold upon the hearts of the
people, upon all the lace of the land. And thus ended
the ninetieth yeaf of'ihe reign of the 'judges overthe
people of Nephi. i And thus ended the book of Hela-
man, according to the record of Hel&man and his sons,
*) 'y '■ ■ "V *
y - ' y . ' i f'i:
•• • 1
■ V ' •>/«.': V' * ... „•»!. ' * ■
4• i‘ '? .
-.j ■ i . • y - -
5 • ftj' h ■
■ . ' —
'■ -//•. *
■ ■■; : -5 ..*«
. .1t ‘ C - •- v . • • . . '
■ ’
■ •* ' ■ , v . ;
V • .i) " •' . .**,*>. . . “- J -jasci
■ - L >'•& -i-'i d'-U'-A ■
»
.
./• l>«a. ««*.*<*»
• '.■%
**
^ - THE BOOK OF NEPHI, * ' /
THE SON OP NEPHI, WHO WAS THE SON
* ■
> OP HELAMAN. *- .
- • CHAPTER I. - ,
, K - ■
>
., - -• V • . ■ ■ *■ ' ■ * ? . ;
And Hdaman lias the son of Helaman, who wastheson
of Alma, who was the sow of Alma, being a descendt
ant qf Nepkt who was the son of Lehi, who came out
bfJerusalem in thefirst year of the reign of Zedekiak,
Ae king i f Judah. ‘ Ov.
" 1 • ;v
Now it came to pass that the ninety and first yedr
had passed away; and it was six hundred years from
the time that' Lehi left Jerusalem; and it was in the
year that L&ehoheus was the chief judge and the go­
vernor oyer the land. And Nephi, the aon of Heia-
man, had departed out of the land of Zarahemla, giv­
ing charge unto his son Nephi, who as his eldest
son, concerning the plates of brass, and all the records
which had been kept, and all those things which had
been kept Bacred, from the departure Or Lehi out of
Jerusalem; then he departed out of the land, and
whither he went, no man knoweth; and his son Nephi
didkeep the records in his stead, yea, the'record of
this people. /
And it came to pass, that in the commencement of
the ninety and second year, behold, the prophecies of
the prophets began to be fulfilled more fully; for there
begin to be greater signs and greater miracles wrought
athong the people. S it there were some who began
to say, that the time was past for the words to be ful­
filled, which were spoken by Samuel, the Lamanite.
And they began to rejoice over their brethren, saying,
behold, the time is past, and the words of Samuel are
not fulfilled; therefore, your joy and your faith con-
eeming this thing, hath been vain. And it came to
pass that they did make a-great uproar throughout the
land; and the people who believed, began to be very
sorfowFub. leBt oy any means those things which had
been spoken,)/might not home to patB.- *But behold,
they did watch steadfastly for that day, and that night,
4 7 8 BOOK OP NEPHI.
and that day, which shall be as one day, as if there
were no night, that they might know that their faith
had not been vain.
Now it came to pass that there was a day set apart
by the unbelievers, that all those who believed in those
traditions should be put to death, except the sign
should come to pass which had been given by Samuel
the prophet. Now it came to pass that when Nephi,
the son of Nephi, saw this wickedness of his people,
his heart was exceeding sorrowful. And it came to
pass that he went out and bowed himself down upon
the earth, and cried mightily to his God, in behalfof
his people; yea, those who werf about to be destroyed
because of their faith in the tradition of their fathers.
And it came to. pass that he cried mightily unto the
Lord, all the day; and behold, the voice of the Lord
came unto him, saying, lift up your head and beof
good cheer, for behold, the time is at hand, and on this
night shall the sign he given, and on the morrow come
I into the world, to shew .unto the world that I will
fulfil all that which I have caused to be spoken by the
mouth ofmy holy prophets. Behold, I come untom
y
own, to fulfil all things which 1have made known unto
the children of men, from the foundation of the world,
and do the will, both of the Father, and of the Sonof
the Father, because of me, and of the Son, because of
my flesh. And behold, the time is at hand, and this
night shall the sign be giveu.
And it came to pass that the words whioh came unto
Nephi were fulfilled, according as they had been spok­
en: for behold at the going down of the sun, there was
no darkness; and the people began to be astonished,
because there was no darkness when the night came.
And there were many who had hot believed the words
of the prophets, fell to the earth, and became as if they
were dead,,for they knew that the great plan of de­
struction .which they had laid for those wlio beiieved
in the word of the prophets, had been frustrated, for
the signal which had been, given was already at hand;
and they began to know that the Son of God must
shortly appear; yea, in fine, all the people upon the
face of the whole earth, from the west to the east,
both in the land north and ip the land south; were so
exceedingly astonished, that they fell to the earth; for
they knew that the .prophets had testified of these
things fop many yean, and that tire sign vybichhad
been given, was already at hand; and they began to
fax because of their iniquity and their unbelief.
And it came to pass that there was no darkness in
all that night, but it was as light as though it was
mid-day. And it came to pass that the sun did rise
in the morning again, according to its proper order;
and they knew that it was the day that the Lord should
bebom, because of the sign which had been given.
And it had come to pass, yea, all things, every whit,
according to the words of the prophets. And it came
topass also, that a new star did appear, according to
the word; And it came to pass that from this time
forth, there began to be lyings sent forth among the
people, by satan, to harden their hearts, to the intent
that they m ght not believe in those signs and wonders
which they had seen; but notwitstandmg these lyings
anddeceivings, the more part of the people did believe,
and were converted nnto the Lord. And it came to
pass that Nepbi went forth among the people, and also
many others, baptizing unto repentance, in the which,
there were a great remission of sins. And thus the
people began again to have peace in the land; and
thete were no contentions, save it were a few that be­
gan to preach, endeavoring to prove by the scriptures,
that it was no more expedient to observe the law of
Moses, Now in this thing they did err, having not un­
derstood the scriptures. But it came to pass that they
soonbecame converted, and were convinced of the error
which they were in, for it was made known unto them
that the law was not yet fulfilled, and that it must be
fiilfilled in every whit; yea, the word came unto them
that it must be fulfilled; yea, that one jot nor title «
should not pass away, till it should all be fulfilled;
therefore in this same year, were they brought to a
knowledge of their,error, and did confess their faults.
And thus the ninety and second year did pass away.
Imaging glad tiding unto the people because of the
signs which did come to pass, according to the words
ofthe prophecy of all the holy prophets.
And if came to pass that the ninety and third year
didalso pass away in peace, save it were for the Gad-
wotoa robbers, who dwelt upon the mountains, who
did infest the land; for so strong were their holds and
their secret places* that the people could not overpow­
er them; therefore'they did .commit many murders,
and did do rauoh slaughter among the people- And
it came to pass that in the ninety and fourth year,
BOOK OF NKPHI. 479
480 BOOK OF HEPHI.
they began to increase in .a great degree,, because there
were many dissenters of the .Nephites v
>ho did dee unto
them, which did cause much sorrow unto those Ne­
phites who did remain in the land; and there was also
a cause of much sorrow among the Lamanites: for be­
hold, they had many children who did grow up and be­
gan to wax strong in years, that they becameforthem­
selves, and were led away by some who were Zoratn-
ites, by their lyings and their flattering words* tojoin
those Gadiantop robbers; and thus were the Laman­
ites afflicted also, and began to decrease as to their
faith and righteousness, because of the wickedness of
the rising generation.
And it came to pass that thus passed away the nine­
ty and fifth year also, and the people began to forget
those signs and wonders which they had heard, and
began to be less and less astonished at a sign or a
wonder from heaven,, insomuch that they began to be
hard in their harts, and blind in their minds, and began
to disbelieve all which they had heard and seen, ima­
gining up some vain thing in their hearts, that it was
wrought by men, and by the power of the. devil, to
lead away and deceive the hearts of the people; and
thus did satan get possession of the hearts of the peo­
ple again, insomuch that he did blind their eyes, and
lead them away to believe that the doctrine Of Christ
was a foolish and a vain thing.
And it carnet to pass that the people began to wax
strong in wickedness and abominations; and they did
not believe that there should be any more, signs or
wonders given; and satan did go about, leading away
the,hearts of the people, tempting them and causing
them that they should do great wickedness in the land.
And thus did pass away the ninety and sixth year;
and also the ninety and seventh year; and also the
. ninety and eighth year; and also the -ninety and
ninth year; add alsoj an hundred years had passed
away, since the days of Mosiah, who was king over
the people of the Nephitea. And' six hundred and
nine years had paesscd away, since Lehi left Jerusa­
lem; and nine years had passed away, from the time
when,the sign was given, which was spoken ofby the
prophets, that Cbrist ehould come into the-world.
Now the Nephites began to reckon their time from this
period when,the sign was given, or-from the coming
of Christ; therefore, nine yegts bad passed>away, and
Ne'phi, who was the lather of; Nepni;'who fiuMh*
„ .. *
BOOK OF KXFHl, 4 ®
., *
charge of tbe records, did not return to the land of
Zarahemla, and could no where be found in all the
land. ' ' , s
And it came to pass that the people did still remit*
in wickedness, notwithstanding the much preaching
and prophesying which was sent among them; and
thus passed away the tenth year also; and tbe elev­
enth year also passed away in iniquity. And it came
to pass in the thirteenth year, there began to be wars
ana contentions throughout all the land; lor the Gad-
ianton robbers bad become so numerous, and did slay
b
omany of the people, and did lay wastebomany cities,
tod did spread so much death and carnage throughout
the land, that it became expedient that ail the people,
both the Nephites, and the Lamanites, should take op
arms against them; therefore all the Lamanites who
had become converted unto the Lord, did unite with
their brethren, the Nephites, and were compelled, for
the safety of their lives, and their women and their
children, to take up arms against those Gadianton
robbers; yea, and also to maintain their rights, and
their privileges of their church, and of their worship,
and their freedom, and their liberty. And it came to
pass that before this thirteenth year had passed away,
tbe Nephites were threatened with utter destruction,
because of this war, which had become exceeding sore.
And it came to pass that those Lamanites who had
united with the Nephites; were numbered among the
Nephites; and their curse was taken from them, and
their skin became white like unto the Nephites; and
their young men and their daughters became exceeding
fair, aad they were numbered among the Nephites,
and were called Nephijes. And thus ended the thir­
teenth year. * *
And it came to pass in the commencement of the
fourteenth year, the war between the robbers and the
people of Nephi didcontinue, and did become exceed­
ing sore; nevertheless, the people of Nephi did gain
some advantage of the robbers insomuch that they did
drive them back out of their lauds into the mountains,
and into their secret places. And thus ended the
fourteenth year.. And. in the fifteenth year they did
eome forth against the people of Nepbi; and because
°f the wickedness of the, people of Nephi, and their
®auy contentions-and dissensions, the Gadianton rob-
beW'did gain many advantages over them. And thye
4S2
ended, the fifteenth year,;and thuswere the peoplein
a state of maDyafflietjonsianditheswardotdestruc-
tion did hang over them, insomuch that they were
about to be stnitten down' by it,- and this ,because of
their iniquity. ■ . . .v
BOOK aCKTKEPHI.
CHAPTER II. •
Arm now it-came to pass that in the sixteenth year
from the coming of Christ, Lachoneus, the governor
of the land, received an epistle from the leader and the
governor of this band of robbers; and these were the
words which were written, saying, /Lachoneus, most
hoble and chief governor of the land, behold I write
this epistle unto you, and do give unto you exceed­
ing great praise because of your firmness, and also
the firmness of your people, in maintaining that
which ye suppose to be your right and liberty:
yea, >ye do stand well, as if ye were supported
by the hand of a God, in the defence of your liber­
ty, and your property, and your country, or that
which ye do call so. And it seemeth a pity unto m
e,
most noble Lachoneus, that ye should be so foolish
arid vain as to suppose that ye can stand against so
many brave men, who are at my command, who do
now at this time stand in their arms, and do await,
with great.aiixietvj-ibr the .word, go down upon the
Wephites a#d>deslroy them. And I knowing of their
unconquerable spirit, having proyed them in the field
, of battle, and knowing of their everlasting hatred
Vtowards you, because of the many wrongs which ye
‘have-done'unto them, therefore it they should come
*i’dO‘wn against you, they would visit, you with utter
•destruction; therefore I have wrote this epistle, sealing
./itvvith mine own hand, feeling for your welfare,because
■.."of your firmness-in that which ye believe to be right)
end your noble spirit in-the field of battle; therefore !
write unto you6
desiring that ye would yield up unto
this my peopleyyOur'eities, your Jahds, and your pos*
sessions, rather thari; that they should visit you with
the swo^, hud thai destruction should come upouyou;
Or in Other words, yield yourselves up unto us, ana
Hinitd Whhtie, Ifid become aqnainfe'd;with .oursecret
works, and^bfecome our brethren, that ye may behks
. : ,,, y&MX . .% , . .
BOOK OF K EPH I. 483
unions; not bar slaves, bat oor brethren, and partners
'ofall ear substance, And behold, I swear unto you,
if ye will do this, with an oath, ye shall not be de­
stroyed; bat iPye will not do this, I swear unto you,
with an oath, that oti the morrow month, I will com­
mand that tny armies shall come down against you,
and they shall not stay their hand, and shall spare not,
but shall slay ^ou, and shall let fall the sword upon
you, even until ye shall become extinct. And behold,
I am Giddianhi; and 1 am the governor of this the se­
cret society of Gadianton; which society, and the
works thereof, I know to be good; and they are of an­
cient date, and they have been handed down unto us.
And I write this epistle unto you, Lachoneus, and I
hope that ye will deliver up your lands, and your pos­
sessions, without the shedding of blood, that this my
people may recover their rights and government who
have dissented away from you, because of your wick­
edness in retaining from them their rights of govern­
ment; and except ye do this, 1 will avenge their
wrongs. I am Giddianhi. '
And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received
this epistle, he was exceedingly astonished, because
of the boldness of Giddianhi, demanding the possession
ofthe land ofthe Nephites, and also of threatening the
people and avenging the wrongs of those that had re­
ceived no wrong, save it were they had wronged them­
selves, by dissenting away unto those wicked and abo­
minable robbers. Now behold, this Lachoneus, the
governor, Was a just man, and could not be frightened
bythe demands and the ihrestenings ofa robber; there­
fore he did not hearken to the epistle of Giddianhi,
the governor of the robbers, but he did cause that his
people shbuld cry unto the Lord for strength against
the time that'the robbers should come down against
them; yea, he sent a. proclamation among all the peo­
ple, that they should gather together tneir women,
and their children, tlieir flocks and their herds; and all
their substance,’save it were theirland, unto one place.
And lie caused that -fortifications should be built round
about them, and the strength thereofshould be exceed-
And he caused'that there should be armies*
Both of the Nbpnitps and of the L&manites, or of all
witemwho Were- nhimbered amongthe Nephites,-should
#$& #*** gnXrdf’
faunddibbatv to watch them, and
» ’gffafd'thfemi*f t) # the* robbers,'' day and night;; yea,
he ^M ^fo^theB^aatheLerd liveth,-exoept yie-repent
481 BOO* OF KEPBJ.
of all your,iniquities, and cry unto the Lord, that they
would in no wise be deliveredout of the hands ofthose
Gadianton robbers. And so great and marvelouswere
the words and prophecies of Lachoneus, that they did
cause fear to come upon all the people, and they did
exert themselves in their might, to doaccording to the
words of Lachoneus.
And it came to pass that Lachoneus did appoint
chiefcaptains over all the armies of the Nephites, to
command them at the time that the robbers should
come down out of the wilderness against them. Now
the chiefest amongall the captains, and the great com­
mander of all the armies of the Nephites, was appoint­
ed, and his name was Gidgiddoni. Now it was the
custom among all the Nephites, to appoint for their
chief captaim, save it were in their times of wicked­
ness, some one that bad the spirit of revelation, and
also prophecy; therefore this Gidgiddoni was a great
prophet among them, and also was the chief judge.
Now the people said unto Gidgiddoni, pray unto the
Lord, and let us go up upon the mountains, and into
the wilderness, that we may fall upon the robbers and
destroy them, in their own lands. But Gidgiddoni
saith unto them, the Lord forbid; for if we should go
up against them, the Lord would deliver us into their
hands; therefore we will prepare ourselves in the cen­
tre of our lands, and we will gather all our armies to­
gether, and we will not go against them, but we will
wait till they shall come against us; therefore as the
Lord liveth, if we do this, he will deliver them into
our hands. And it came to pass in the seventeenth
year, in the latter end of tire year, the proclamation
of Lachoneus had gone forth throughout all the face
of the land, and they had taken their horses, and their
chariots, and their cattle, and all their Hocks, and their
herds, and their grain, and all their substance, and did
march forth by thousands; and by tens of thousands,
until they had all gone forth to the place which had
been appointed, that they should gather themselves
together, to defend themselves against their enemies.
And the land $rhiob was appointed was tb%land of
Zarahemla and^the land Bountiful; vea, to the line
whieh was between the land Bountiful and the land
Desolation; *nd there were a great many thousand
people who were called Nephites, who did gather
themselves togetherin this land. Now Lachoneus did
sauae that they should gather themselvestogether is
BOOK, OF KEPH1. 489
(he lend southward, because of the great curse which
was upon the land northward; and they did fortify
themselves against their enemies; and they did dwell
in one land, and in one body, and they did fear the
words whichhod been spoken by Lachoneus, insomuch
that they did repent of all their b id s ; and they did put
up their prayers unto the Lord their God, that be
would deliever them in the time that their enemies
should come down against them to battle. And they
were exceeding sorrowful because of their enemy.
And Gidgiddoni did cause that they should make
weapons of war, of every kind, that they should be
strong with armor, and with shields, and with buck*
lers, after the manner of his instruction.
And it came to pass that in the latter end of the
eighteenth year, those armies of robbers, had prepared
for battle, and began to come down, and to sally forth
from the hills, and out of ibe mountains, and the wil­
derness, and their strong holds, and their secret pla­
ces, and began to take possession of the lands, both
which was tn the land south, and which was in the
land north, and began to take possession of all the
lands which bad been deserted by the Nephites, and
the cities which had been left desolate. But behold
Jhere were no wild beasts nor game in those lands
which had been deserted by the Nephites, and there
was no game for the robbers save it were in the wilder­
ness. And the robbers could not exist save it were in
the wilderness, for the want of food; for the Nephites
had left their lands desolate, and had gathered their
flocks, and their herds and all their substance, and
they were in one body; therefore there was no chance
for the robbers to plunder and to obtain food, save it
were to coraeup in open battle against the Nephites;
and the Nephites being in one body, and having so
great a number, and having reserved for themselves
provisions, and horses, and cattle, and flocks of every
kind, that they might subsist for the space of seven
years, in the which time they did hope to destroy the
robbers horn off the face of the land. And thus the
eighteenth year did pass away. s
Audit came to pass that in the nineteenth year,
Gidddianhi found that it was expedient that he should
go up to battle against the Nephites, for there was no
"*J that they aould subsist, save it were to plunder,
»Qa rob, and murder. And, they durst not. ipread
lhem«elves upon rthe &ce of Up land, insomuch that
boos o r ncrnt.
486
they could raise grain, lest the Nephites should come
upon them and slay them; therefore Giddianhi gate
commandment unto his armies, that irt this year they
should go up to battle against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that theydid come up to battle;
and it was in the sixth month; and behold, great and
terrible was the day that they did come up to battle;
and they were girded about after the manner of rob­
bers; and they had a lamb-skin about their loins; and
they were died in blood; and their heads were shorn;
and they had head-plates upon them; and great and
terrible was the appearance of the armies of Giddianhi,
because of their armor, and because of their being dy­
ed in blood. And it came to pass that the armies of
the Nephites, when they saw the appearance of the
army of Giddianhi, had all fallen to the earth, and did
lift their cries to the Lord their God, that he would
spare them, and deliver them out of the hands of their
enemies. And it came to pass that when the armies
of Giddianhi saw this, they began to shout with aloud
voice, because of their joy; for they had supposed that
the Nephites had fallen with fear, because of the ter­
ror of their armies; but in this thing they were disap*
J
ointed, for the Nephites did not fear them, but they
id fear their God, and did supplicate him for protec­
tion; therefore when the armies of Giddianhi did rash
upon them, they were prepared to meet them; yea, in
the strength of the Lord thev did receive them; and
the battle commenced in thfs the sixth month; and
great and terrible was the battle thereof; yea, great
and terrible was the slaughter thereof, insomuch that
there never was known so great a slaughter among all
the people of Lehi since he left Jerusalem. And not.
withstanding the threatnings and the oaths which
Giddianhi had made, behold, the .Nephites did beat
them, insomuch that they did fall back from before
them. > 1
And it came to pass that Gidgiddohi commanded
that his armies should pursue them as far as the bor­
ders of the wilderness, ahd that they should not spare
any that should fall into1
their hands by the way; and
thus they did’pursue them, and did slay them, to the
borders of the wilderness, .even until they had fulfilled
the commandment of Gidgiddorii.
And it came to pass that1.Giddianhi, who’hid stood
and fought with boldneas, was pursued as He fled; «id
being weary because df hiSmncirfightihgj becW
»doV«**
tiken and al»to. ,r,And thus was the end of Giddianhi*
the robber. . « ■
And it came to. pass that the armies of the Nephites
^id return again to their place of security. And, it
came to pass that this,nineteenth year did pass away*
and the robbers did not come again to battle; neither
did.they come again in the twentieth year; and in the
twenty and first year they did not come up. to battle,
bat they came up on all sides to lay siege round about
the people of Nephi; for they did suppose that if they
shouldcutoff the people of Nephi from their lands, and
should hem them in on every side, and if they should
cut them off from all their outward, privileges, that
they could cause them to yield themselves up accord*
ing to their wishes. Now they had appointed unto
themselves another leader, whose name was Zemnari-
hah; therefore it was Zemnarihah that did cause that
this siege should take place. But behold this was an
advantage to the Nephites; for it was impossible for
the robbers to lay siege sufficiently long to have any
effect upon the Nephites, because of their much pro*
vision which tiiey had laid up in store, because of the
scantiness of provisions among the robbers; for behold
they had nothing save it were meat for their subsist­
ence,; which meat they did obtain in the wilderness—
And it came to pass that the wild game became scarce
in the wilderness, insomuch that the robbers were
about to perish with hunger. And the Nephites were
continually marching out by day and by night, and
falling upon their armies, and cutting them off by thou­
sands and by teas of thousands. And thus it became
the desire of the people of Zemnarihah, to withdraw-
from their, design, because of the great destruction,
which come upon them by night and by day.
And it came to pass that Zemnarihah did give cook
mand unto his people, that they should withdraw
themselves from the siege, and march into the further­
most parts of the land, northward. And now, Gid-
giddoni, being aware of tKeir design, and knowing of
their weakness because of the want of food, and tho
great -slaughter which had been made among them,
therefore he did send out his armies in the night time,
and did cut. off the way of their retreat, and did place
•us armies in the way of their retreat; and this did
they do in the night time, and got on their march b&
>
yond the robbers, so that on the morrow, when the
robbers began their inarch, they were met by the ir-
BOOK OF 5£P H U 4 8 ?
488 BOOK OF XCTHI.
inies of tlie Nephites, both in their front and in their
rear. And the robbers who were on the south, wet*
also cut off in their places of retreat. And all these
things were done by command of Gidgiddoni. And
there were many thousands who did yield themselves
up prisoners unto the Nephites: and the remainder of
them were slain; and their leader, Zemnarihab, was
taken, and hanged upon a tree, yea, even upon ihe
top thereof, until he was dead. And when they bad
hanged him until he was dead, they did fall the tree to
the earth, and did cry with a loud voice, saying, may
the Lord preserve his people in righteousness and is
holiness of heart, that they may cause to be fell to th»
earth all who shall seek to slay them because of pow­
er and secret combinations, even as this man hath
ft______r * . n i t . . ____ A * j * i . ___.1? j * * . . i
ham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, pro­
tect this people in righteousness,'so long as they shall
call on the name of their God tor protection. And it
came to pass that they did break forth, all as one, in
singing and praising their God, for the great thing
which he had done jfbr them, in preserving them from
falling into the hands of their enemies: yea, they did
cry, hosanna to the Most High God; and they did
cry blessed be the name of the Lord God Almighty,
the Most High Gad. And their hearts were swollen
with joy, unto the gushing out of may tears, because
of the great goodness of God in delivering them out
of the hands of their enemies; and they knew it wae
because of their repentance and their humility that
they had been delivered from an everlasting destruc­
tion. And now behold there was not a living soul
among all the people of the Nephites, who did doubt
in the least the words of all the holy prophets who
had spoken; for they knew that it must needs be that
they must be fulfilled; and they knew that it must be
expedient that Christ had cpme, because of the many
signs which had been given, according to the words of
the prophets, and because of the things which had
come to pass already, they knew that it roust need*be
that all things should come to pass according to that
which had been spoken; therefore they did forsake all
their Bins, and their abominations, and their whufr
dome, and did serve God with all diligence day and
B O O K 'O r KXPBL
• And now it came to pass that when they had taken
•Uthe robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did es­
cape who were not slain, they did cast their prisoners
into prison, and did cause the word of God to be
preached unto them; and as many as would repent of
their sins and enter into a covenant that they would
murder no more, were set at liberty; but as many as
there were who did notenter into a covenant, and who
did still continue to have those secret murders in their
hearts; yea, as many as were found breathing out
threatnings against their brethren, were condemned
and punished according to the law. And thus they
did put an end to ail those wicked, and secret, and
abominable combinations, in the which there was so
much wickedness, and so many murders committed.—
And thus had the twenty and second year passed
away, and the twenty and third year also, and the
twenty and fourth, and the twenty and fifth: and thus
had twenty and five years passed away, and there had
many things transpired which, in the eyes of some,
would be great and marvelous; nevertheless, they can-
sot all be written in this book; yea, this book cannot
contain even a hundredth part of what was done
among so many people, in the space of twenty and
five years; but behold there are records which do con­
tain all the proceedings of this people: and a more
short but a true account was given by Nepbi; there­
fore 1 have made my record of these things according
to the record of JNephi, which was engraven on the
E
lates which were called the plates of Nephi. And
ahold I do make the record on plates which 1 have
made with mine own hands. And behold, I am call-
ad Mormon, being called after the land of Mormon,
the land in the which Alma did establish the church
among the people; yea, the first chorch which was
established among them after their transgression. Be­
hold I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
1 have been called of him to declare his word among
his people, that they might have everlasting life.—
And it hath become expedient that I, according to the
will of God, that the prayers of those who have gone
hence, who were the holy ones, should be fulfilled ac­
cording to their faith, should make a record of these
things which have been done; yea, a 6mall record of
that which bath taken place from the time that Lehi
left Jerusalem, even down until the present time;
therefore I do- make my record from the accounts
4 8 »
BOOS ,.0? BBPHI.
which have been given by those who were before'me,
until the ,commencement of my day; and then I do
make a record of the things which I have seen with
mine own eyes. And, I know the record, which 1
make to be a just and a true record; nevertheless
there are many things which, according to our lan­
guage, we are not able to write. And now I make an
end of my saying which is of myself, and proceed to
give my account of the things which have been before
me. I am Mormon, and a pure:descendant of Lehi_
I have reason to bless my God, and my Savior Jesus
Christ, that he brought our fathers out of the land of
Jerusalem, (and no ode knew it save it were himself
and those whofti he brought outof that land,) and that
he hath given me and my people so much knowledge
unto the salvation of our souls. Surely lie hath bles­
sed the house of Jacob, and hath been merciful unto
the seed of Joseph. And insomuch as the children of
Lehi have kept his commandments, he hath blessed
them and prospered them accoiding to his word; yea,
and surely shall he again bring a remnant of the seed
of Joseph to the knowledge of the Lord their God;
and as surely as the Lord liveth will lie gatherin from
the four quarters of the earth, all the remnant of the
seed of Jacob, who are scattered abroad upon all the
face of the earth; and as he hath covenanted with all
the house of Jacob, even so shall the covenant where­
with he hath covenanted with the house of Jacob, be
fulfilled in his owndue time, unto the restoring all the
house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the covenant
that he hath covenanted with them; and then shall
they know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ, the
Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from
the four quarters of the earth, unto their own lands,
from whence they have been dispersed; yea, as the
Lord liveth, so shall it be. Amen.
490
CHAPTER III.
And now,it came to pass that the people of the No-
phites did all return to their own lands, in the twenty
and sixth year, every man, with his family, his flocks
and hie herds, fus horses and his cattle, 'and all things
y
hook or hkfhi. 49 1
whatsoever did belong unto them. And it came to
paw that they had not eaten up all their provisions;
therefore they did take with them all that they had
not devoured, of all their grain of every kind, and theif
gold, and their silver, and all their precious things, and
they did return to their own lands and their posses­
sions, both on the north and on the south, both on the.
land northward and on the land southward. And they
granted unto those robbers who had entered into a
covenant to keep the peace, of the band who were de­
sirous to remain Latnanites, lands, according to their
nambera, that they might have, with their labors,
therewith to subsist upon; and thus they did establish
peace in all the land. And they began again to pros­
per and to wax great; and the twenty and sixth and
seventh years passed away, and there was great order
inthe land; and they had formed their laws according
toequity and justice. And now there was nothing iu
*
1
1the land, to hinder the people from prospering con- *
tinually, except they should fall into transgression.—
And now it was Gidgiddori, and the judge Lachone-
us, and those who had been appointed leaders, who
had established this great peace in the land.
And it came to pass that there were many cities
btiilt anew, and there were many old cities repaired;
and there were many highways cast up, and many
roads made, which led from city to city; and from land
toland, and from place to place. And thus passed
away the twenty and eighth year, and the people had
continual peace. But it came to pass in the twenty
an«l ninth year, there began to be some disputings
among the people; and some were lifted up unto pride
and boastings, because of their exceeding great riches,
yea, even unto great persecutions: for there were ma­
ny'merchants in the land, and also many lawyers, and
many officers. And the people began to be distin­
guished by ranks, according to their riches, and their
chancesfor learning; yea, some were ignorant because
pftheir poverty, and others did receive great learning
because of their riches; some were lifted up in pride,
and’
others were exceeding humble; some did return
railing for railing, while others would receive railing,
and persecution, and all; manner of afflictions, and
ftfm and*revile again, but were humble and
PM^rit befchre God; and Utus> there became a great
H&jpaHtyid ' aU the.land, insomuch that the church
‘fcpa to Wbrofceh up; yea; insomuch that in the thir-
BOOK OF KBPHX.
tieth year the church was broken up in all the land,
save it were among a few of the Lamanites, who were
converted unto the true faith; and they would not de­
part from it, for they were firm, and steadfast, and im.
movable, willing with all'diRigence to keep the com­
mandments of the Lord. Now the cause of this ini­
quity of the people, was this, satan had great power,
unto the stirring up of the people to do all manner of
iniquity, and to the puffing them up with pride, tempt­
ing them toseek for power, and authority, and riches,
and the vain things ol the world. And tuuss&lan did
lead away the hearts ofthe people, to do all manner of
iniquity; therefore they had not enjoyed peace butt
few years. And thus in the commencement of the
thirtieth year, the people havingbeen delivered up for
the space of a long lime, to be carried about by the
temptations of the devil whithersoever he desired to
carry them, and to do whatsoever iniquity he desired
*they should; and thus in the commencement of this,
the thirtieth year, they were in a state of awful wick­
edness. Now they did not sin ignorantly, for they
knew the will of God concerning them, for it had been
taught unto them; therefore they did wilfully rebel
against God. And now it was in the days of Lacho-
neus, the son of Lachoneus, for Lachoneus did fill the
seat of his lather and did govern the people that year.
And there began to be men inspired from heaven, and
sent forth, standing among the people in all the land,
preaching and testifying boldly of the sins and iniqui-
ties of the people, and testifying unto them concern­
ing the redemption which the Lord would make for
his people; or in other words, the resurrection of
Christ; and they did testify boldly of his death and
sufferings. Now there were many of the people who
were exceeding angry, because of those who testified
of these things; and those who were angry, were chief­
ly the chiefjudges, and they who had been high priest*
and lawyers; yea, all those who were lawyers, w«*
angry with those who testified of these things. Now
there was no lawyer, nor judge, nor high priest, that
could have power to condemn any one to death, *avs
their condemnation was signed by the governor of"1
®
land. Now there were many of those who testified of
the things pertaining to Christ, who testified boldly,
who were taken and put to death secretly by thejudg­
es, that the knowledge of their death came not unto
the governor of the land, until after their death- No?
m
1
BO
O
K or*, 5SPHI. 493
behold this was contrary to the laws of the land, that
any man should be put to death, except they had pow­
erfrom the governor of the land; therefore a complaint
came up unto the land of Zarahemla, to the governor
ofthe land, against these judges who had condemned
the prophets of the Lord unto death, not according to
the law.
Nowit came to pass that they were taken and brought
up before the judge, to be judged of the crime which
they had done, according to the law which had been
^iven by the people. Now it came to pass that those
judges had many friends and Ipridreds: and the remain­
der, yea, even almost all the lawyers and the high
priests, did gather themselves together, and unite with
the kindreds of those judges who were to be tried ac­
cording to the law; and they did enter into a covenant
one with another, yea, even into that covenant which
was given by them of old, which covenant was given
and administered by the devil, to combine against all
righteousness; therefore they did combine against the
people of the Lord, and enter into a covenant to des­
troy them, and to deliver those who were guilty of
murder from the grasp of justice, which was about to
beadministered according to the law. And they did
•et at defiance the law and the rights of their country;
and they did covenant, one with another, to destroy
the governor, and to establish a king over the land,
that the land should no more be at liberty, but should
besubject unto kings. Now behold, 1 will shew unto
you that they did not establish a king over the land;
but in this same year, yea, the thirtieth year, they did
destroy upon the judgment seat, yea, did murder the
chiefjudge of the land. And the people were divided
one against another; and they did separate one from
another, into tribes, every man according to his fami­
ly, and his kindred and friends; and thus they did des-
toy the government of the land. And every tribe did
appoint a chief, or a leader over them; and thus they
became tribes, and leaders of tribes. Now behold,
then was no man among them, save he had much
familyand many kindredsand friends; therefore their
lr,beabecameexceeding great. Now all this was done
Md there were no wars as yet among them; and all
™
*ainiquity had come upon the people, because they
®dyield themselves unto the power of aatan; and the
nprietionsofthe government were destroyed, because
ofthe secretcombination ofthe friends and kindredsof
those who^murdered the prophets. And they did cause
a great contention in the land, insomuch that the more
righteous part of the people, although they had nearly
all become wicked) yea, there were but few righteous
men arrtong them. And thus six years had not passed
away, since the more part of the people had turned
from their righteousness, like the dog to his vomit* or
like the sow to her wallowing in the mire. Now this
secret combination which bad brought so great ini­
quity uponthe people, did gather themselves together,
and did place at their head a man whom they did call
Jacob; and they did d^Hbim their king; therefore he
became a king over thillwicked band; and he was one
of the cbiefest who had given his voice against the
prophets who testified of Jesus. And it came to pass
that they were not so strong in number as the tribes
of the people who were united together, save it were
their leaders did establish their laws, every one accor­
ding to his tribe; nevertheless they were enemies, not­
withstanding they were not a righteous people; yet
they were united in the hatred of those who had en­
tered into a covenant to destroy the government;
therefore Jacob seeing that their enemies were more
numerous than they, lie being the king of Die band, i
therefore he commanded his people that they should
take their flight into the northernmost part of theland;
and there build up unlo themselves a kingdom, until
they were joihed by dissenters, (for he flattered them
that there would be many dissenters,) and they be­
come sufficiently strong to contend with the tribes of
the people. And they did so; and so speedy was their
inarch, that it could not be impeded, until they bad
gone forth out of the reach of the people. And thus
ended the thirtieth year: and thus were the affairs of
the people of Nephi.
And it came to pass in the thirty and first year, that
they were divided into tribes, every man according to
his family, kindred ahd friends; nevertheless they had
come to an agreement that they would not go to war
one with another; but they were not united asto their
laws, and their manner of government, for ‘they were
established According to the minds of those who were
their chiefs and their leaders; But they did establish
vefy strict laws, that one tribe should not trespass
against another,- insomuch that in some degree they
.had peace in the land; nevertheless, their hearts*were
turned from the Lord thfeir-God, ahdthdy did stone
404 . b o o k or b z p k i v
.BOOK o r K X F flb
the' prophets, and did cast thereout from among
them.
, And it came to pass that Nephi, having been'visited
by angels, and also by the voice ofthe Lord, therefore
having seen angels, and being eye witness, and having
bad power given unto him that he might know con­
cerning the ministry of Christ, and also being eye wit­
ness to their quick return from righteousness unto
their wickedness and abominations; therefore, being
grieved for the hardness of their hearts, and the blind­
ness of their minds, went forth among them in that
same year, and began to testi&; boldly, repentance and
remission of sios through on the Lord Jesus
Christ. And he did minisle?many things unto them;
and all of diem cannot be written, and a part of them
would not suffice; therefore they are not written in
this book. And Nephi did minister with power and
with great authority.
And it ciune to pass that they wereangry with him,
even because he had greater power than they, for it
were not possible that they could disbelieve his words,
forso great was his faith on the Lord Jesus Christ,
that angels did minister unto him daily; and in the
name of Jesus did he cast out devils and unclean spir­
its; and even his brother did he raise from the dead,
after he had been stoned and suffered death by the
people; and the people saw it, and did witness of it,
and were angry with him, because of his power; and
he did also do many more miracles, in the sight of the
people, in the name of Jesus.
And it came to pass that the thirty and first year aid
pass away, and there were but few who were convert­
edunto the Lord; but as many as were converted, did
truly signify unto the people that they had been visit­
ed bythe power and spirit of God, which was in Jesus
Christ, in whom they believed. And as many as had
devils east out from them, and were healed of their
sicknesses and their infirmities, did truly manifest un­
to.the people that they had been wrought upon by the
spiritof God, and had been healed; and they did sheer
forth signs also, and did do some miracles among the
People. ^
Thus passed away the thirty and second year also,
And Nephi did cry unto the people in the commence­
ment of the thirty and third year; and he did preach
onto them repentance and remission of sins. Now I
would have you to remember also, that theiwjgjn*
«
e "
496 BOOS OB VKFHI.
non* who were brought unto repentance, who were
not baptized with water; therefore there were ordain,
ed of Nephi, men unto this ministry, that all such as
should come unto them, shoold be baptized'with wa­
ter, and this os a witness and a testimony before God,
and unto the people, that they had repented and re­
ceived a remission of their sins. And there were ma­
ny in the commencement of this year, that were bap­
tized unto repentance; and thus the more part of the
year did pa«B away.
Akd now it came to pass that according to ocr
record, and we know our record to be true, for behold,
it was a just man who did keep the record; for hetruly
did many miracles in the name of Jesus; and there
was not any man who could do a miracle in the name
of Jesus, save he were cleansed every whit from his
iniquity. And now it came to pass, if there was no
mistake made by this man in the reckoning of our
time, the thirty and third year had passed away, and
the people began to look with great earnestness for the
sign which had been given by the prophet Samuel, tbs
Lamanite; yea, for the time that there should be dark­
ness for the space of three days, over the face of the
land. And there began to be great doubtings and dis­
putations among the people, notwithstanding so many
signs had been given.
And it came to pass in the thirty and -fourth year,
in the first month, in the fourth day of the month,
there arose a great storm, such an one as never had
been known in all the land; and there was also a great
and terrible tempest; and there was terrible thunder,
insomuch that it did shake the whole earth os ifit was
about to divide asunder; and there were exceeding
sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in au
the land. And the city of Zarahemta .did take fire;
and the city of Moroni did sink into the depths of the
sea, and the inhabitants thereof were drowned; and
the earth was carried up upon the city of Moronihah,
that in the place of the city thereof, there became »
great mountain; and there was a greatand terribledn-
I ft
CHAPTER IV.
BOOK o r NEPH I. 491
fraction in tlie land sothward. Butbehold, there
wasa more great and terrible destruction in the land
northward; tor behold, the whole face ot the land was
changed, because of the tempest, and the whiilwinds,
and the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the ex-
ceediug great quaking of the whole earth; and the
highways were broken up, and the terel toads were
spoiled, and many smooth places became rough, and
many great and notable cities were sunk, and many
weie burned, and many were shook till the buildings
thereof bad fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants
thereofWere slain, and the places were left desolate;'
and there were some cities which remained; but the
dair.age thereof was exceeding great, and there were
many in them who were slain; and there were some
who were carried away in the whirlwind; and whither
they went, no man knoweth, save they know that they
were carried away; and thus the face of the whole
earth became deformed, because of the tempests, and
the tbunderings, and the lightnings, and the quaking
of the earth. And behold, the rocks were rent in
twain; they were broken up upon the face of the
whole earth, insomuch that they Were found in broken
fragments, and in seams, and in cracks, upon all the
feeeofthe land.
And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and
the lightnings, and the storm, and tlie tempest, and
thequakings of the earth did cease—for behold, they
did last for about the space of three hoars; and it was
said by some that the time was greater; nevertheless,
all these great and terrible things were done in about
the space of three hours; and then behold, there was
darkness upon the face of the land.
And it came to pass that there was thick darkness
opon ail the face of the land, insomuch that the in*
habitants thereof who had not'fallen, could feel the
vaponr of darkness; and there could be no light, be­
causeoflhe darkness, neithercandies, neither torches;
neither could there be fire kindled with their fine and
exceeding dry wood, so that there could not be any
hght at all; and there was not any light seen, neither
nor glimmer, neither the sun, nor the moon, nor
tbestars, forso great werethe mists of darkness which
hereupon the face of the land.
. And it came to pass that it did last for the space ef
wree days, that there was sb light seen; and there
498 BOOK O f HKPHI.
was great mourning, andbowling, andweeping among
all the people continually; yea, great were the groan*
ings of the people, because of the darkness and the
great destruction which had come upon them. And
in one place they were heard to cry, saying, O that
we had repented before this great and terrible day, and
then would our brethren have been spared, and they
Would not have been burned in that great city Zara*
hernia. And in another place they were heard to cry
and mourn, saying, 0 that we had repented before this
great and terrible day, and had not killed and stoned
the.prophets, and casfc.,them out; then. Would oar
mothers, and.our fair daughters, and our childrenhave
been spared, and not have been buried up-in that great
city Moronihah; and thus were the howliuga of the
people great and terrible.
And it came to pass that there was a voice heard
among all the inhabitants of the earth upon all the
face of this land, crying, wo, wo, wo unto this people;
wo uato the inhabitants of the whole earth, except
they shall repent, for the devil laugheth, and his an*
gals rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and
daughters of my people; and it is because of their ini*
quity and abominations that they are fallen. Behold,
that great city Zarahemla have I burned with fire, and
the inhabitants thereof And behold, that great city
Moroni have I caused to be sunk in the depths of the
sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned. And
behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered with
earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their ini­
quities and their abominations from before my face,
that the blood of the prophets and the saints shall not
come any more unto me against them. And behold,
the oily of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, andths
inhabitants;thereof to be buried up in the depths of the
earth; yea, and the city Onihah, and tlje inhabitants
thereof, and the city of Mocum, and tile inhabitants
thereof, and the city of Jerusalem, and the inhabitants
thereof, and waters have I caused to come up in the
stead thereof, to hide, their wickedness and abomina­
tions from before my face, that the blood of the pro­
phets and the saints shall not come up any more unto
me against them. And behold, the city of Gadiandi,
and toncity of Gadiomnah* and the city of Jacob, and
the etfyof Gimgimno, all these have I caused to be
sunk,;and;made hills ared valleys-,in the places thereof,
and the inhabitants thereof, have I buried up in the
B o o r DP SE P ttfr 499
deptbsof the earth, to hide their wickedness and abo­
mination* from before my (ace, that the blood of the
prophet* and the aaints should not come up any mom
unto me against them. And behold, that great city
Jscobugatb, which was inhabited by the people of the
king of Jacob, have I caused to be burned with fire,
because of their sins and their wickedness, which was
above all the wtokedness of the whole earth, because
of their secret murders and combinations; for it was
they that did destroy the peace of my people and the
government of the land; therefore I aid cause them to
beborned, to destroy them from before my face, that
the blood of the prophets and the saints should not
come up unto me any more against them. And be­
hold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the
city ofGad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused
tobe burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, be­
cause of their wickedness in casting out the prophets,
and stoning those whom I did send to declare unto
them concerning their wickedness and their abomina­
tiona; and because they did cast them all out, that
there were none righteous among them, 1 did send
down fire and destroy them, that their wickedness and
abominations might be hid from before my fuce, that
the blood of the prophets and the saints whom I sent
among them, might not cry unto me from the ground
against them; and many great destructions nave I
caused to come upon this land, and upon this people,
because oftheir wickedness and their abominations.
0 all ye that are spared, because ye were more
righteous than they, will yC not now return unto me,
and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may
heal you? Yea, verily I say Onto you, ifye will come
unto me, ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine
armof mercyis extended towards you, and whosoever
will come, ||m-will I receive; and blessed are those
who come irofn me. Beheld I am Jesus Christ, the
SondfGod. ‘ 1 created the heavens and theearth, and
all things that fnfthem are. I was with the Father
from the beginning. I am in the Father, and the Fa-
umHa me?'and to me hath the Father glorified HU
name. ! caine tirito my own, and my own received
me-not. And the scriptures, concerning ray coming,
ate foffilled. And as many as have received nie, to
ihem bave Igiveh to become the Sons of God; and
eVeh so'VriHI 'tO aBniaiiyas ehall believe on iny name,
for hchold, by-me redemption someth, and m me is
the. Jaw ofMoses fulfilled... 1 am the light and the
life of the. world. I. am Alpha and Omega, the be­
ginning and the end. And ye shall offer up unto me
no more; .the shedding of blood; ,yea, your sacrifices
and. your burnt offerings s.ha.11 be done away, for I.
will acceptnone of your sacrifices and your burnt of­
ferings; and ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto mea
broken heart and a contrite spirit. .And whoso cora-
eth unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit,,
him will I baolize with fire and with the Holy Ghost,
even as the Lamanites, because of their faith in me,
at the time of- their, conversion, were baptized with
fire and with the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not
Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemp­
tion uato the world, to save the world from sin: there­
fore whoso,repenteth and cometh unto me as a little
child, him will ! receive; for of such is the kingdom
of God. Behold, for such I have laid down my life,
and have taken it.fip again; therefore repent, and corns
unto me ye ends of the earth, and be saved.
And now behold, it came to pass that all the people
of the land did hear these sayings; and did witness of
it. And after these sayings there was silence in the
land for the space of many hours; for so great wasthe
astonishment of the people that they did cease lament­
ing and howling for the loss of their kindred which
had been slain; therefore there was silence in all the
land for the space of many hours.
And it came to pass that there came a voice again
onto the people, and all the people did hear, ana did
witness of it, saying, O ye people of these great cities
which have fallen, who are descendants of Jacob; yea,
who are of the house of Israel, how off have I gather­
ed you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, &qd hare nourished you. And again, how off
would I have gathered you, as a ben .gathereth her
chickens under her wings; yea, Q ydhpeople of the
house of Israel, who have fallen; yea, O ye people of
the house of Israel; ye that dwell at Jerusalem, as ye
that have fallen; yea, how off would I have gathered
you as a hen gathereth her chickens, and ye would
not. O ye house of Israel, whom I have spared, how
off will! gather you as a hen gatliereth her chickens
under fier wings,;if.ye jyill repent and return unto me
with full purpose of heart. . But, if not, O house of
Israel, the places of,year dwellings shall become dew?
s i s . . r . i v , . - * k*s v#
600
late, until iheUme of the fulfilling of the covenant-tr?
your fathers. . -
And now it came to pass that after the people had
heard these words, behold they began to weep and
howl again,; because of the loss of their kindred and
friends. Aud it came to pass that thus did the three
days pass away.. And it was in the morning, and the
darkness dispersed from off the thee of the land, and
the earth did cease to tremble, and the rocks did cease
to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease, and all
thetumultuous noises did pass away, and the*earth did
cleave together again, that it stood, and the mourning,
and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who
were spared alive, did cease; and their mourning was
turned into joy, and their lamentations into the praise
and thanksgiving unto the Lord Jesus Christ, their
Redeemer. And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled,
which had been spoken by the prophets. And it was
the more righteous part of the people who were saved,
and it was they who received the prophets, and sloped
them not; and it was they who had not shed the blood
ofthe saints, who were spared; and they were spared,
and were not sunk and buried up in the earth; and
they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and
they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen
upon and crushed to death; and they were not carried
away in the whirl-wind; neither were they overpower­
ed by the vapor of smoke and of darkness. Amt now
whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the
scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if
all these deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke,
and by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by the open-
' iog ofthe earth to receive them, and all these things,
are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many
of the holy prophets. Behold I say unto you yea,
many have testified of these things at the coming of
Christ, and were slain because they testified of these
things; yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these
things,and also jgenock spake concerning these things,
because they testified particular eoncernig us, who are
the remnant of their seed. Behold our father Jacob
M
*0 testified concerning a remnant of the seed of Jo-
*®ph. And behold, are not we aremnant of the wed
0fd°*epht And these things which testify of us, are
they not written upon the plates of brass which our
wbe* Lehr brought out of Jerusalem? And it came
that in the endingof the thirty and fourth year.
BOOK OF K EPH l. 5 0 !
m BOOlr<JF'*EPHJ.
behold I will shew unto you that the people of Nephi
who were spared, and also those who had been hailed
Lamanitea, who had been spared, did have greatfavors
shewn unto them, and great blessings pouredout upon
their heads, insomuch that soon after the ascension of
Christ into heaven, he did truly manifest himselfunto
them, shewing his body unto them, and ministering
unto them; and an aocount of his ministery shall be
given hereafter. Therefore for this time 1 make aa
end of n\y sayings.
"CHAPTER V.
Jerus Christ shaceth himself unto thepeople ofNenH,
as ike multitude were gathered together in the Iand
'Bountiful, and did Minister unto them; and on this
loise did he skeio himselfunto tkenu
' Ako now it came to pass that there were a gteat
multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi,
round about the temple which was in the land Boun­
tiful; and they were marveling and wondering one
with another, and were shewing one to another the
great and marvelous change which bad taken place;
and they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ,
ofwhom the sign had been given, concerning hisdeath.
And it came to pass that while they were thus con­
versing cite with another, they heard a voice, as if it
came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round
about, for they understood not the voice which they
heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a
loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being
a small voice, it did pierce them that did hear, to the
centre, insomuch that there wereno part of their frame
that it did not ckuse to quake; yea, ft did ‘
pierce lhem
to the very soul; and did cause thdir 'hearte to burn.
And lt eame to pass thatagain they heard the voice,snd
they' uhderetodd"ibnot;-andagain thethird titoethey did
hear the voice, anddidopentheir ears to hettrift and
their' eyes were towards-the sound thereof;■
‘and they
did-look steadfastly towards heaven, frtrtn Wheneesths
sound came: and behold, the third time they didun­
derstand the voiceWhich they heaVdj-'and'itsaid untb
them;s;behold;’iny bdloyed-’^nj^ha ^ h o # T MHrtH
BOOK or H B PH I. m
pleaaed,in whom I have glorified a ; name, bear ye
him, -
And it came to pass as they understood, they cast
their eyes up again towards heaven; and behold, they
sawman a descending out of heaven; and he was clothe
edin a white robe, and he came down and stood in the
midst of them, and the eyes of the whole multitude
were turned upon him, and they durst not open, their
mouths,, even one to another* and wist not what it
meant* for they thought it was an angel that had ap»
peared unto them.
Andit came to pass that he stretched forth bis hand,
andspake unto*the people, saying; behold I am Jesus
Christ, of whom the prophets testified shall come into,
the world; and behold 1 am the light and the life of
the world, and 1 hare drunk out of that bitter cup
which the Father hath given me, and have glorified
the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in
thewhich 1 have suffered the will of the Father in all
things, from the beginning.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken
these words, the whole multitude fell to the earth, for
they remembered that it had been prophesied among
themthat Christ should shew himself unto them after
his ascension into heaven.
*And it came to pass that the Lord spake note them,
saying, arise and come forth unto me, that ye may
thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may
teal the prints of the nails in my hands, and in my
feet, that ye may know that 1 am the God of Israel,
«nd the God of the whole earth, and have been slain
tor the sins of the world.
And it came to pass that the multitude went forth,
and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the
prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and
they did dp, going forth one by one, until they had all
gone forth, and did see with their eyes, and did feel
with their hands, and did kuow of a surety, and did
bear record, that it was be, of whom it was written by
the prophets should come.
And when they had all gone forth, and had witnea*-
ed for themselves, they aid cry oat with one accord^.
*eying, hosanna! blessed be the name of the Mori
High Godl And they did fell down at the feet of
Jesus, and did worship him.
M td it?©ame to*pass?that he spake unto Nephi* (for
•
‘wphiw.as among the multitude, )and he.commanded
KihvUmtheshouid come forlh. 'And NGphi arose and
went forth, and bowed himself before the Lord, and
hedid kiss his feet. And the Lord commanded him
that he' should arise. And he arose and stood before
him. And the Lord said onto him, I give unto you
power that ye shall baptize this people* when I am
again ascended into heaven; And again the Lord
called others, and said unto them likewise; and be
gaVe unto them power to baptize; And he said onto
them, on this wise shall ye baptizes and there shallbe
no disputations among you. Verily 1 say unloyou,
that whoso tepenteth of his Sins through your words,
and desireth to be baptized in my name; on this wise
shaft ye baptize them, behold, ye shall go down and
stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptise
them. And now behold, these are the words whichye
shaft-say, calling them by name, saying: Having au­
thority given me of Jesus Christ, 1 baptize you in the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse them in
the water, and eoBie forth again out of the water.
And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name,
for behold, Verily 1 say unto you, that the Father, and
the Son; and the Holy Ghost are one; and 1 am inthe
Father, and the Fattier in me, and the Father and I ere
one. And according as I have commanded you, thus
shall ye baptize. And there shall be no'disputation*
among you, as there hath hithero been; neither shall
there he disputations amongyou concerning the points
ol my doctrine, as tkere hath hitherto been; for Yerily,
verily I say unto, he that Hath the spirit ofcontention,
is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of
contention, and he stirretb up the hearts of men to
contend with anger;* one with another. Behold, this
is hot my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with
anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine,
that such things should be done away. Behold, verily,
verily I say unto yob, I will declare unto you my doc­
trine. And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine
which the Father bath, given unto- me; and I bear re­
cord of the Father, ana the Father beareth record of
me, prid the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father
and me, and I bearrecord that the Father commanded!
all meh, every where, to repent and believe in me;
and whose believeth in me; and is baptized, the sauna
shall bh saved; and 'they are they who shall inherit
the kipgdoin’&fGbd. • And whoso believeth not in me,
604 Bdok or «x?m.
BOOK OF JOtPHI.
and is not baptized, shall be damned. Verily, verily
I say onto you, tbat this is my doctrine; and I bear
record of it from tbe Father; and whoso believelh in
me, believeth in the Father .also; and unto him will
the Father bear record of me; for he will visit him
with fire, and with the Holy Ghost; and thus will the
Father bear record of me; and the Holy Ghost will
bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the
Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost, are one. And
again 1 say unto you, ye must repent, and become as
a little child, ana be haptized in my name, or ye can
in nowise receive these things. And again I say unto
E ye must repent, and be baptized in iny name, and
me as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit
the kingdom of God. Verily, verily I say unto you,
that this is my doctrine; and whoso buildeth upon
this, buildeth upon my rock; and the gates of nefi
shall not prevail against them. And whoso shall
declare more or less than this, and estahlish it for
my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not
built upon my rock, but he buildeth upon a randy
foundation, and the gates of hell standeth open to
receive such, when toe floods come, and the winds
beat upon them. Therefore go forth unto this peo­
ple, and declare the words which. I have spoken,
unto the ends of the earth. And it came to pass that
when Jesus had spoken these words unto Nephi, and
to those who had been called, (now the number of
them who had been called, and received power andau­
thority to baptize, were twelve,) and behold be stretch­
ed forth hie hand unto the multitude, and cried onto
them saying, blessed are ye, if ye shall give heed,unto
the words of these twelve whom I have chosen from
among you to minister unto you, and to be your ser­
vants; and unto them I have given power, that thgy
may baptize you with water, and after that ye are
baptized with water, behold 1 will baptize you with
fireand with the Holy Ghost; therefore blessedare ye,
ifye shall,believe in me, and be baptized, after that ye
haveseen me, and know that I am. And again, more
blessed,are they who shall believein your words, be­
cause that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, and
fost ye know that I am* Tea, blessed are they who
shall believe in your words, and come down into the
depths of humility, and be baptized; for they shall be
virifod withfire and with the Holy Gbopt, and shall
SOI
*06 BOOK o r HKFBI.
receive a remission of their sins. Yea, blessed are the
poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven. And again,- blessed are all they
that mourn, for they shall be comforted;:and blessed
are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And
blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after
righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy
Ghost. And blessed are are the merciful, for they
shall obtain mercy. And blessed are all the pure in
heart, for they shall See God. And blessed are all the
peace-makers, for they shall be called the children of
God. And blessed are all they who'are persecuted,
for my names-sake, for theirs is the kingdom oi Hea­
ven. And blessed are ye when men shull revile you,
and persecute, and shall say all manner of evil against
you falsely, for my sake, tor ye shall have greatjoy
and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward
in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets who
were before you. Verily, verily 1 say unto you, I give
unto you to be the salt of the earth; but if the salt
shall lose its savor, wherewith shall the earth besaltedt
The salt shall be thenceforth good for nothing, but to
be cast but, and to be trodden under foot of m
eD.
Verily, verily 1 say unto you, I give unto you to beths
lightof this people. A city that is set on a hill cannot
be hid. Behold, do men light a candle and put it under
a bushel? Nay, but on a candle-stick, and it givelhlight
to all that are in the house; therefore let your light so
shine before this people, that they may see your good
works and glorify your Father who is in heaven.
Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the
prophets. I am not come to destroy but to fulfil; for
verily I say unto you, one jot nor one tittle hath not
passed away from the law, but In me it hath all been
fulfilled.
And behold I have given you the law and the com­
mandments of my Father, that ye shall believe in me,
and that ye shall repent ofyour sins, and come unto
me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit. Behold,
ye have the commandments before-you, and the law
is fulfilled; therefore come unto me and be ye saved;
for verily I say unto you, that except ye shall keep
iny commandments, which I have commanded you at
this time, yfe/shall in no case enter into the kingdom
of heavdn.'--
' Ye have heard that it bath been said by
-them of1old time, and it is also written before you,
that thou shalt not killf and whosoever shall kill
BOOK o r X&PHIa 507
•kali b« in danger of the judgment of God. But I say
onto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother,
•ball be in danger of his judgment. And whosoever
•bail say to his brother, Baca, shall be in danger of
the council; and whosoever shall say thou fool, shall
be in danger of hell-fire; therefore, if ye shall corns
unto me, or shall desire to come unto me, and remein-
berest that thy brother hath ought against thee, go
thy way unto thy brother, and first be reconciled to
thy brother, and then come unto me with full purpose
of heart, and I will receive you. Agree with thine
adversary quickly, while thou art in the way with him,
lest at any time he shall get thee, and thou shalt he
cast into prison. Verily, verily 1 say unto thee, thou
shalt by no means come out thence, until thou hast
paid the uttermost senine. And whileye are in prison,
can ye pay even one senine? Verily, verily I sayunto
you, nay. Behold, it is written by them of old time,
that thou shalt not commit adultery; but I Bay unto
you, that whosoever iooketh on a woman, to lust after
her, hath committed adultery already in his heart
Behold, I give unto you a commandment, that ye suf­
fernone ofthese things to enter into your heart; for it
isbetterthat ye should deny yourselves of these things,
wherein ye will take up your cross, than that ye should
becast into hell. It hath been written, that whoso­
ever shall put away his wife, let him give hera writing
of divorcement Verily, verily I say unto you, that
whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the
eause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery;
and whososhalt marry her who is divorced, committeth
adultery. And again it is written, tbou shalt not for­
swear thyself, but shall perform unto the Lord thine
oaths. But verily, verily I say unto you, swear not
at all; neither by heaven, for its God’s throne; nor by
the earth, for it is his footstool; neither shalt thou
swear by the head, because thou canst not make one
hair black or white; but ler your communication be
yea, yea; nay, nay, for whatsoever cometh of more
than these are evil. And behold, it is written, an eye
for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But' I say unto
you, that ye shall not resist evil, but whosoever shall
•mite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other
*b«. And if any man will sue thee at the i*«r, and
.fekeawaythy coa^let him have thy doak also, And
WhMoeverdull compel theeto go a mile, go with hirq
fveim i Qiveia him that esketh thee, and to himifc*i
BOOK OB HBPHf,
50a
would borrow of thee, turn thou not away. And be*
hold, it is written also, that thou shalllove thy neigh*
bor, and hate thine enemy; but beholdI say unto you,
love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good
to them that hate you, andprayfor them who despite-
fully use you and persecute you, that ye may be the
children of your Father who is in heaven; for lie mak-
eth his sun to rise on the evil and on the good; there­
fore those things which were of old time, which were
under the law in me, are all fulfilled. Old things are
done away, and all things have become new; therefore
I would that ye ahouldbe perfect even as I, or your
Father who is in heaven is perfect. Verily, verUy, 1
say that 1 would that ye should do almsunto the poor;
but take heed that ye do not youralms before men, to
be seen of them; otherwise ye have no reward ofyour
Father who is heaven. Therefore, when ye shall do
your alms, do not sound a trumpet before you, as will
hypocrites do in the synagogues, and in the streets, that
they may have glory of men. Verily, I say unto you,
they have their reward. But when thou doest alms,
let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doelh;
that thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who
seeth in secret, himself shall reward thee openly.
And when thou prayeat, thou shalt not do as the
hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the syna­
gogues, and in the corners of the streets, that they may
be seen of men. .Verily, I say unto you, they have
their reward.. But thou, when thou prayest, enter in­
to thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray
to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who
seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. But when
ye pray, use not vain repetitions, os the heathen, for
they think that they shall be heard for their much
speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for
your Father knowetn what things ye have need of be­
fore ye ask him. After this manner therefore prayye,
our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And
forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And
lead. ua. nbt into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
For>thine:is the kingdom, and the power, andthe glo­
ry, for ever. Amen. For, if ye forgive men their
trespasses, yonr heavenly Father willalso forgive you;
but ifyeforgivemot' memtheir trespasses, neither will
your Father fbtgiveyonr trespasses. . Moreover, when
ye*fast,^iaot'asithe bypbcrite*,ofaflad countenance,
-
#
■
5 0 9
for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear
onto men to faatf Verily, 1 say unto*you, they have
their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint
thyhead, and wash thy face; that thoa appear not
untomen, to fast, hut unto thy Father, who is in se­
cret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall re­
wardthee openly..
Bay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth,
where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break
through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures
in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
and where thieves do not break through nor steal.
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be
also. The light of the body is the eye, if therefore
thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of
light ‘ But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall
befoil of darkness. If therefore the light that is in
thee be darkness, how great is that darkness! No
man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the
one, andlove the other; or else he will hold to the one,
and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and
mammon.
KOOK O F J f lP H I .
CHAPTER VI.
Aim now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken
these words, he looked upon the twelve whom be had
chosen, and said unto them, remember the words
whiohI have spoken. For behold, ye are they whom I
have chosen to minister unto this people. Therefore
I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye
shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your
body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than
meat, and the body than rainment’
t Behold the fowls
ofthe air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor
gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth
them. Are ye not much better than theyt Which
of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto
hiastature! Ana why take ye thought for rainment?
Consider the lilies of the field how they grow; they
toil nptj neither do they spin; and yet i say unto you,
that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed
like one of these. Wherefore, if God so elatbe tfae
paaauf iidw field, which to^ay ia, and to-morrow is
EJO b o o k or srpnt.
east into the oven, even so will he clothe yon; if ye
are not of little feith. Therefore take no thought, say­
ing, what shell we eat? or, what shall we drink? or,
wherewithal shall we be clothed? For your heavenly
Father knowelh that ye have need of all these things.
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his right­
eousness, and all these tilings shall be added unto yon.
Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the
morrow shall take thought for the things of itself
Sufficient is the day unto the evil thereof. <
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spok­
en these words, he turned again to the multitude, and
did open his mouth unto them again, saying, verily,
verily, 1 say unto you, judge not, that ye be not judg­
ed. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall fie
judged; and With what measure ye mete, it shall be
measured to you again. And why beholdesl thou the
mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but considerest not
the beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou
say to thy brother, let me pull the mote out of thine
eye; and behold, a beam is in thine own eye? Thou
hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye:
and then shall thou see clearly to cast the mote out of
thy brother’s eye. Give not.that which is holy unto the
dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest
they trample them under their feet, and turn again and
rend you.
Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and ye
shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you, for
every one that asketh, receivelh; and he thatseeketh,
findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall he opened.
Or what man is there of you, whom, if his son ask
bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish,
will he give him a serpent? If .ye then being evil
know how to give good gilts unto your children, bow
much more shad your Father who is in heaven give
good things to them that ask him? Therefore all tilings
whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do
ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets,
Enter ye in at the straight gate; for wide is the gate,
and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and
many there be whogo in thereat; because straight iathe
gate, and narrow is the way, which leadetli' unto life,
and fewthere be that find it; Beware of false prophets,
who come to you in sheep’s clothing, bill inwardly
they areravening wolves. >Ye shall know them by
ttieur fruits;.' 0o rmen gather-jjfrapes of'thoriui' or figs
BOOK ' OH NEKRI.
of thistles? -Even so every good tree bringeth forth
good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth. forth evil fruit*
Agood tree cannot bring forth evil fmit, neither a cor­
rupttree bring forth good fmit. Every tree that bring­
eth not forth good fruit, is- hewn down, and cast into
the fire. Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know
them.
Not every One that sajth unto me Lord, Lord, shall
enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth
the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will
say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophe­
siedin thyname? and in thy name havecast oat devilsf
and in thy name done many wonderful works? And
then will 1 profess unto them, 1 never knew yon, do-
part from me, ye that work iniquity.
Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine,
anddoeth them, 1 will liken him unto a wise man,
who built his bouse upon a rock, and the rain descend­
ed, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat
upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded
upona rock. And every one that heareth these say­
ings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened un­
toa foolish man, who built his house upon the sand,
and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the
winds blew, and beat uponthat house; and it fell, and
great was the fall of it. * .
. . -i
. ■
" = r. • ■ ■
■ii.
511
CHAPTER VH.
f Ann now it came to pass that when Jesus had end­
ed these sayings, he cast his eyss round about on the
multitude, and said unto them, behold, ye have heard
the things which I have taught before I ascended to
jnyPather; therefore whoso remembereth these say­
ings of mine, and doeth them, him will I raise up at
thelast day. And it came to pass that when Jesus
««d said these words, he perceived that there were
•tone among them who marveled, and wondered what
he would concerning the law of Moses; for they un­
derstood not the saying, that old things had passed
®wey, and that all things had become new. And be
*W
duplo them, marvel not that I said unto you, that
tod: things had passed awayj -and that all things had
BOOS OF NBPHI.
become new. Bohold I aay unto yon, that.tbe law is
fulfilled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he
that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with
my people Israel: therefore, the law in me is fulfilled,
for 1 have come to fulfil the law; therefore, it hath an
end. Behold, I do not destroy the prophets, for as
many as have pot been fulfilled in me, verily, I say
unto you, shall all be fulfilled. And because I said
unto you, that old things hath passed away, I do not
destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things
which are to come. For behold, the covenant which
I have made with my people, is not all fulfilled; bat
the law which was given unto Moses, hath an end in
me. Behold, I am the law, and the light;, look onto
me, and endure to the end, and ye shall live, for unto
him that endureth to the end, will I give eternal life.
Behold, 1 have given unto you the commandments;
therefore keep my commandments. And this is the
law and the prophets, for they truly testified of me.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spok­
en these words, he said unto those twelve whom he
had chosen, ye are my disciples; and ye are alight
upto this people, who are a remnant of the house of
Joseph. And behold, this is the land of your inherit­
ance; and the Father hath given it unto you. And
not at any lime hath the Father given me command­
ment that I should tell it unto your brethren at Jeru-
ruealem; neither at any time hath the Father given
me commandment, that I should tell unto them con­
cerning the other tribes of the house of Israel, whom
the Father hath led away out of the land. This much
did the Father command>me, that I should tell unto
them, that other sheep I have, which are not of this
fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my
voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.
And now because of stiffneokednees and unbelief, they
understood not my word; therefore! was commanded
to say no more of the Father concerning this thing
unto them. But, verily, I say unto you, that the
Father hath commanded me, and I tell it untoyoo,
that ye were separated from among them because of
their iniquity; therefore it is because of their iniquity,
v
* ^that they know not of you. And verily, I say unto
youagain, that the other tribes hath the Father sepa­
ratedirom them; and it is beoause of their iniquity,
that they know not of ..them. And verily, I>say unto
you, that ye .are they of-whom I said other sheep I
m
BOOK OF KJEPHI. 5 1 3
have which are not of this fold; them also I must
brings end they shall hear my voice; and there shall be
one fold, and one shepherd. And they understood me
not, for they supposed it had been the Gentiles; for
they understood not that the Gentiles should be con­
verted through their preaching; and they understood
me not that I said they shall hear my voice; and they
understood me not that the Gentiles should not at any
time hear my voice; that I should not manifest my­
selfunto them, save it were by the Holy Ghost. But
behold, ye have both heard my voice, and seen me;
and ye are my sheep, and ye are numbered among
those whom the Father hath given me. And verily,
verily, I say unto you, that I have other sheep, which
are not of this land; neither of the land of Jerusalem;
neither in any parts of that land round about, whither
1 have been to minister. For they of whom I speak,
are they who have not as yet heard my voice; neither
bareI at any time manifested myselfunto them. But I
havereceiveda commandment ofthe Father,that ] shall
Sunto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and
ill be numbered among my sheep, that there may be
one fold, and one shepherd; therefore I go to anew
myselfunto them. And 1 command you that ye shall
write these Bayings, after I am gone, that if it so be
that my people at Jerusalem, they who have seen me,
and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the
Father in my name, that they may receive a knowledge
ofyou by the Holy Ghost, and also of the other tribes
whomthey know not of, that these sayings which ye
shall Write, shall be kept, and shall be manifested unto
the Gentiles, that through the .fulness of the Gentiles,
the remnant of their seed who shall be scattered forth
upon the face of the earth, because of their unbelief
maybe brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge
ofme, their Redeemer. And then will 1 gather them
in from the four quarters of the earth; and then will I
ftdfil the covenant which the Father hath made unto
all the people of the house of Israel. And blessed are
the Gentiles, because of their belief in me, in and of
the Holy Ghost, which witness unto them of roe and
ofthe Father. Behold, because of their belief in me,
•aith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you,
0 house of Israel, in the latter day shall the truth
tome unto the Gentiles, that the fulness of these
thingsshall be mad? known unto them. But wo, saith
M 4 BOOK OF VKPHI.
notwithstanding they have cotae forth upon the faea
of this land, and have scattered my 'people, who
are of the house of Israel; and mypeople who are of
the house of Israel, have been east out from among
them, and have been trodden under feet by them; and
because of the mercies of the Father unto the;Gentiies,
and also the judgments of the Father upon my people,
who are of the house of Israel, verily, verily, I say
unto you, that after all this, and I have caused ray
peo'ple who are of the house of Israel, to be smitten,
and to be afflicted, and to be slain', and to be cast out
from among them, and to become hated by them, and
to become a hiss and a by-word among them- And
thus oommandeth the Father that I should say unto
you at that day when the Gentiles shall sin against
my gospel, and shall be lifted up in the pride of their
hearts above all nations, and above all the people of
the whole earth, and shall be fitted with all manner of
lyings, and of deceits, and of mischiefs, and all man­
ner of hypocrisy, arid murders, and priestcrafts, and
whoredoms;ana of secret abominations; and if they
shall do all those things, and shall reject the ful­
ness of my gospel, behold, saith the Father, I w
ill
bring the fulness of my gospel from among them; and
t hen will I remember my covenant which I have m
a<
w
unto my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring m
y
gospel unto them; and 1 will shew unto thee, 0 hons*
of Israel, that the Gentiles shall not have power ofer
you, but I will remember my covenant unto you, 0
house of Israel, andye shall comeunto the knowledge
of the fulness of my gospel. But if the Gentiles will
repent, and return unto me, saith the Father, behold,
they shall be numbered among my people,10 house of
Israel; and I will not suffer mypeople; Who are ofthe
house of Israel, to go through among them, and tread
theta down, saith the Father. But if they will
turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, I will stifffer
them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of Israel,
that they shall go through among them, and shall
tread them down, and they shall be as salt that hath
lost its savour, which ib thenceforth good fornothing,
but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot ofmy
people, O house of Israel. Verily, verily, I say unto
you, thus hath the Father commanded me, that I
should give unto this people this land for their inherit-
•nee. And when the words of the prophet Isaiah
shall be fulfilled, which say; thy watchmen shall uB
BOOK OF BEPH I. 5 1 5
np the voice; with the yoke together shall they sing,
for they shall see eye tp eye, when the Lord shall
bring again Zion. Break forth intojoy, Bingtogether,
ye waste places of Jerusalem, fpr the Lord hath coni'
forted bis people, he hath redeemed Jesusalem. The
Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all
the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the
salvation of God. 1
i
K 1
m CHAPTER VIII.
' 1 >' if '
B e h o l d , now it came to pass that when Jeans had
spoken these words, he looked round about again on
themultitude, and he said unto them, behold, my time
is at hand. , J perceive that ye are weak, that ye can­
not understand all my words which 1 am commanded
ofthe Father to speak unto you at this time; there­
fore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder npon the
things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my
name, that ye may understand; and prepare your
minds for the morrow-, and I come unto you again.
But now I go unto the Father, and also to shew my­
selfunto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost
unto the Father, lor he knoweth whither he hath
taken them. ^
And it cameto pass that when Jesus had thus spok­
en, he cast his eyes round about again on the multi­
tude, and beheld they were in tears, and did look
steadfastlyupon him, as if they would ask him to tarry
alittle longer with them. And he said unto tnem,
behold, my bowels are filled with compassion towards
Too, have ye any that are sick among you, bring them
hither. Have ye any that are laine, or blind, or halt,
or maimed,.or leprous, or that ere withered, or that
we deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner, bring
them hither, and I will heal them, for I have compas­
sionupon you; my bowels are filled with mercy; for
( Perceive that ye desire that I should shew unto you
what I have done >
unto your brethren at Jerusalem,
w l see that yourfaith is sufficient, that I should
#lpU.£tttna to pees that when he had thus spoken,'
ou« accord, did go forth, with
5 1 6 BOOK' OF KEFHr.
their sick, and their afflicted, and their lame, and with
their blind, and with their dumb, and with all they
that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal
them every one as they were brought forth unto him;
and they did all, both they who had been healed, and
they who were whole/bow down at his feet, and did
worship him; and as many'as could come for the
multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did
bathe his feet with their tears.
And it came to pass that he commanded that their
little children should be brought. So they brought
their little children and sat them down upon the ground
round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and
the multitude gave way till they had all been brought
unto him. And it came to pass that when they had
all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he
commanded the multitude that they should kneeldown
upon the ground. And it came to pass that when
they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within
himself, and saith, Father, I am troubled because of
the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel.
And when he had said these words, he himselfalso
knelt upon the earth; and behold he prayed unto the
Father, and the things which he prayed, cannot he
written, and the multitude did bear record who heard
him. And after this manner do they bear record: the
eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, be­
fore, so great and marvelous things as we saw and
..heard Jesus speak unto the Father; and no tongue
can speak, neither can there be written by any man,
neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and
marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus
speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which
filled our souls at the time we heard him pray fores
unto the Father.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an
end of praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great
was the joy of the multitude, that they were overcome.
And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and
bade them arise. And they arose from the earth, and
he said unto them, blessed are ve because of your faith.
And now behold, my joy is mil. And when he had
said these words, he wept, and the multitude bearrec­
ord of it, and he took their little children; one by one,
and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.
And'when he had done this he wept again, andne
spake untothe multitttde/andeSithuntothemfbehoW
BOOK o r BKPHI. 5 1 7
your little oner. And as they looked to behold, they
cut their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the
heavens open, and they saw angels descending oat of
heaven os it were, in the midst of fire; and they came
downand encircled those little ones about; and they
were encircled about with fire; and the angels did
minister unto them, and the multitude did seeand bear,
and bear record; and they know that their record is
true, for they all of them did see and hear, every man
forhimself; and they were in number about two thou­
sandand five hundred souls; and they did consist‘of
men, women and children.
And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his dis­
ciples that they snoutd bring forth some bread and
wipeunto bim. And while they were gone for bread
and wine, be commanded the multitude that they
should sit themselves down upon the earth. And
whenthe disciples had come with bread and wine, he
lookof the bread, and brake and blessed it; and he
gave unto the disciples, and commanded that they
shouldeat. And when they had eat, and were filled,
be commanded that they should give unto the multi­
tude. And when the multitude had eaten and was
filled, he said unto the disciples, behold, there shall
one be ordained among you, and to him will I give
power that he Bhall break bread, and bless it, and give
it unto the people of my church, unto all those who
shall believe and be baptized in my name. And this
snsiiye always observe to do, even as I have done,
evenas I have broken bread, and blessed it, and gave
itunto you. And this shall ye do in remembrance of
mybody, which 1 have shewn unto you. And it shall
bea testimony unto the Father, that ye do always re­
member me. And if ye do always remember me, ye
shall have my spirit to be with you.
And it came to pass that when he had said these
words, he commanded his disciples that they Bhonld
take ofthe wine of the cup, and drink of it, and that
they should also give unto the multitude, that they
might drink of it. And it came to pass that they did
so, and did drink of it, and were filled; and they gave
untotbe multitude, and they did drink, and they were
Sued. And when the disciples had done this. Jesua
■aidunto'them, blessed are ye tor this thing which ye
w e (tone, torihis ls fulfilling mycommandments, and
“is doth witness unto the Father that ye are willing
todo tfcatwiuofr J have commended you. And this
8 1 8 BOOK OF KXPHt.
rhall ye always do to those who repent and are bapti­
zed in my name; and ye shall do it in remembrance of
my blood, which I have shed for you, that ye may
witness unto the Father that ye do always remember
me. i And ifye do always remember me, ye shall have
my spirit to be with you.; And I give unto you a
commandment that ye shall do these things. And if
ye shall always do these,things, blessed are ye, for ye
are built upon my rock. But whoso among you shall
do more or less than these, are not built upon my rock,
but are built upon a sandy foundation; and when the
rain descends, and the floods come, and the winds
blow, and beat upon them,, they shall fall, and the
gates of hell are ready open to. receive them; therefore
blessed are ye if rye shall keep my commandments,
which the father hath commanded me that 1should
give unto you. Verily, verily I say unto you, ye must
watch and pray always,, lest ye be tempted by the dev­
il, and ye are ledaway captive by him. Andas Ihave
prayed amongyou, even soshall ye pray in my church,
' among my people who d» repent and are baptized ia
my name. Behold 1 am the light; I have set an ex­
ample for you. i
And it came to pass that when JesuB had spoken
these words unto his disciples, he turned again unto
the multitude, and said unto them, behold, verily, ve­
rily I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always,
lest ye enter into temptation; for salon desireth to
have you; that he may sift you as wheat; therefore ye
must always pray unto the Father in my name; and
whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which
is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall
be given unto you. Pray in your families unto the
Father, always in my name, that your wives and your
children may be blessed. And behold* ye shall meet
together oft, and ye shall not forbid any man from
coming unto you when ye shall meet together, but
suffer them that they may pome unto you, and forbid
them not; but ye shall pray for them,,and shall not
cast them out; and if it so be thatthey come unto yon
oft, ye shall pray for ;them unto the Father, in m
y
name: therefore hold up your light that it may shim
-
unto ‘the world. Behold lam the lighttwhicb ye sh*U
hold up—that whichye have seen me do..*Benold yo
see that I have prayed unto the Fatherland ye all baw
^ritneased; ond^ye see .that I? have; commanded tbat
nofteof:
>you’*hoftl4*iga-awy*'^ °®
m
*
BOOK or XZPB1.
nandedthat ye should come unto me, that ye might
feel and see; even so shall ye do onto the world; and
whosoever breaketh this commandment, suff'ereth him­
selfto be led into temptation.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus bad spo­
ken these words, he turned his eyes again upon the
disciples Whom he had chosen, and said unto them,
behold, verily, verily I say unto you, I give unto yoa
another commandment, and then [ must go unto my
Father, that I may fulfil other commandments which
he hath given me. And now behold, this is the com­
mandment which I give unto you, that ye shall not
soffer any one knowingly, to partake of my flesh, and
blood unworthily, when ye shall minister it, for who­
soeatelh and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily,
eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore
ifye know that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of
myflesh and blood, ye shall forbid him; nevertheless,
yeshall not cast him out from among you^but ye shall
minister unto him, and shall pray for him unto the
Father, in my name, and if it so be that he repenteth,
andisbaptized in my name, then shall ye receive him,
and shall minister unto him of my flesh and blood; but
ifbe repent not, he shall not be numbered among my
rmple, that he may not destry my people, for behold
know my sheep, and they are numbered; neverthe­
lessye shall not cast him out of yonr synagogues, or
your places of worship, for unto such snail ye contin­
ueto minister; for ye know not but what they will re­
turn and repent, and come unto me with full purpose
of heart, and 1 shall heal them, and ye shall be the
means of bringing salvation unto them. Therefore
keep these*sayings which 1have commanded you, that
ye come not under condemnation, for wo unto him
whomthe Father coodemneth. And I give you these
commandments, because of the disputations which
have been among you. And blessed are ye ifye have
uo disputations among you. And now 1 go unto the
Father, because it is expedient that I should go unto
the Father, for your sakes.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an
end of these sayings, he touched with his hand the
disciples whom he had chosen, one by one, even until
be had touched them all, and spake unto them as he
touched them; and the multitude heard not the words
which 'he spake* therefore they did not bear record;
but the disciples bear record that he gave them power
519
V
to give .the Holy Ghost And.I will shew unto you
hereafter that this record is true. >' , .
And it came to pass that when Jesus had touched
them all, there came a cloud and overshadowed the
multitude, that they could not see Jesus. And while
they were overshadowed, he departed from them, and
ascended into heaven. And the disciples saw and did
bear record that he ascended again into heaven.
520 BOOK'. OF K EPH t.
CHAPTER IX.
Abo now it came to pass that when Jesus had as­
cended into heaven, the multitude did disperse, and
.every man did take his wife and nis children, anddid
return to his own home. And it was noised abroad
among the people immediately, before it was yet dark,
that the multitude had seen Jesus, and that he had
ministered unto them, and that he would also show
himself on the morrow unto the multitude; yea, and
even all the nigbt.it was noised abroad concerning Jo*
cos; and insomuch did they send forth unto the peo­
ple, that there were many, yea, an exceeding great
number did labor exceedingly all that night, that they
might be on the morrow in the place where Jesus
should shew himselfunto the multitude.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, wher the
multitude was gathered together, behold Nephi and
his brother whom he had raised from the dead, whose
name was Timothy, and also his son, whose name
was Jonas, and also Mathoni* and Mathonihah, hie
brother, and Kumen, and Kutuenonhi, and Jeremiah,
and'Shemnon, and Jonas; and Zedekiah, and Isaiah;
now these were the names of the disciples whom Je­
sus had chosen. And it came to pass that they went
forth and stood in the midst of the multitude. And
behold, the multitude was so great, that they did cause
that they should be separated into twelve bodies.—
And the twelve did teach the multitude; and behold,
they did cause that the multitude should kneel down
upon the face of the earth, and should pray unto the
Father, in the name of Jesus. And the disciples did
pray unto the Father also, in the name,ofJesus.' And
it came to pass that they; arose and ministered unto
BOOK OF FT P H I. 521
the people. And when they had ministered those
same words which Jesus had spoken—nothing varying
from the words which Jesus had spoken—
‘behold, they
knelt again, and prayed to the Father in the name of
Jesus; and they did pray for that which they most de­
sired; and they desired that the Holy Ghost should
be given into them. And when they had thus pray­
ed, they went down unto the water's edge, and the
multitude followed them- And it came to pass that
Nephi went down into the water, and was baptized.—
And he came* np out of the water and began to bap­
tize. And he baptized all those whom Jesus had cho­
sen. And it came to pass when they were all bapti­
zed, and had come up out of the water, the Holy Ghost
did fall upon them, and they were tilled with the Holy
Ghost, and with fire. And behold, they were encir­
cled about as if it were tire; and it came down from
heaven, and the multitude did witness it, and do bear
record; and angels did come down out of heaven, and
did minister unto them. And it came to pass that
while the angels were ministering unto the disciples,
behold, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and minis­
tered unto them. And it come to pass that he spake
unto the multitude, and commanded them that they
should kneel down again upon the earth, and also that
bis disciples should kneel down upon the earth. And
it came to pass that when they had all knelt down up­
on the earth, he commanded hiB disciples that they
should pray. And behold, they began to pray; and
they did pray onto Jesus, calling him their Lord and
their God.
And it came to pass that Jesus departed out of the
midst of them, and went a little way off from them
and bowed himself to the earth, and he said, Father,
I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto
these whom I have chosen; and it is because oftheir
beliefin me, that I have chosen them out of the world.
Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost
unto all them that shall believe in their words. Fa­
ther, then hast given them the Holy Ghost, because
they believe in roe, and thou seest that they believe in
we,' because thou hearest them, and they pray unto
me; and they pray unto me because I am with them.
And now Father, 1 pray unto thee for them, and also
fa all those who shall believe on-their words, that
* v2 *
. »
.... - , v> $
1
they'may believe in4
me, that I may he in them as
thou, Father, art in me, that we may;be one.
And it came to pass, that when Jesus had Lhus pray­
ed unto the Father, he catne unto his disciples, and
behold, they did still continue, without ceasing, to
pray unto him; and they did not multiply many words,
for it was given unto them what they should pray, and
they were filled with desire. And it came to pass
that Jesus blessed them, as they did pray unto him,
and his countenance did smile upon them, and the
light ofhis countenance did shine upon them, and be­
hold they were ae white as the countenance, and also
the garments of Jesus; and behold the whiteness there­
of did exceed all the whiteness, yea, even there could
be nothing upon earth so white as the whiteness there­
of. And Jesus said unto them, pray on, nevertheless
they did not cease to pray. And he turned from them
again, and went a little way off, and bowed himselfto
the earth; and he prayed again unto the Father, say­
ing, Father, I thank thee that thnu host purified those
whom I have chosen, because of their faitfi, andl
pray for them, and also for them who shall believe oa
their words, that they may be purified in me, through
faith on their words, even as they arc purified in me.
Father, I pray not for the world, hut for those whom
thou hast given me out of the world, because of their
faith, that they may be purified in me, that 1may be
in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may b«
one, that I may be glorified in them.
And when Jesus bad spoken these words, he came
again unto his disciples, and behold they did pray
steadfastly, without ceasing, unto him; and he did
smile upon them again; and behold they were white,
even as Jesus.
And it came to pass that he went again a little way
off, and prayed unto the Father; and tongue cannot
speak the words which he prayed, neither can be writ­
ten by man the word* which he prayed. And the
multitude did hear, and do bear record, and their hearts
were open, and they did understand in their hearts the
words which he prayed. Nevertheless, so great and
marvelous were the words which he prayed, that they
cannot be written, neither can they be uttered by
man. . ,,,.5*-*
And it cam
eto pase that when Jesus had made an
end .of praying,he ca
m
eagain to the^disciples, and
Mid unto them, so great faith have I neverseen among
5 2 2 b o o k so f t e r n i .
523
all the Jews; wherefore I could not shew unto therrt
so great miracles, because of their unbelief. Verily I
ssy unto you, there are none of them that have seen
so great things 'as ye have seen; neither have they
heard so great things as ye have heard.
And it came to pass that he commanded the multi­
tude that they should cease to pray, and also his disci­
ples. And he commanded them that they should not
cease to pray in their hearts. And he commanded
them that they should arise and stand up upon their
feet. And they arose up and stood upon their feet.—
And it came to pass that he break bread again, and
blessed it, and gave to the disciples to eat. And when
they had eaten he commanded them that they should
break bread, and give unto the multitude. And when
they had given unto the multitude, he also gave them
wide to drink, and commanded them that they should
giveunto the multitude. Now there had been no bread,
neither wine, brought by the disciples, neither by the
multitude; but he truly gave unto them bread to eat,
and also wine to drink; and he said unto them, he that
eateth this bread, entethof my body to his soul, and
he that drinketh of litis wine, drinketh ofmy blood to
his soul, and his soul shall never hunger nor thirst,
but shall be filled. Now when the multitude had all
eaten and drunk, behold they were filled with the spir­
it, and they did cry out with one voice, and gave glw.
ry to Jesus, whom they both saw and heard. And it
came to pass that when they had all given glory unto
Jesus, he saith unto them, behold now I finish the
Commandment which the Father hath commanded me
concerning this people who are a remnant of the house
of Israel. Ye remember that I spake unto you, and
said that when the words oflsaiah should be fulfilled,
behold they are written, ye have them before you;
therefore search them. And verily, verily I say unto
you, that when they shall be fulfilled, then is the ful­
filling of the covenant which the Father hath made
unto his people. O house of Israel, and then shall
the remnants which shall be scattered abroad upon the
face of the earth, be gathered in from the east, and
fromthe west, and from the south, and from the north;
and they shall be brought to the knowledge of the
Lord their God, who hath redeemed them. And the
Father hath commanded me that I should givet unto
?
oo thiis land, for pour inheritance. And I say unto
on, that if the Gentiles do not repent, after the blea-
BOOK OY 2TEPHT.
m BOOK .OV HXVEFI.
sing which they shall receive, after they have scatter­
ed my people, then shall ye who are a remnant*ofthe
house of Jacob, go forth among them; and ye shall be
in the midst,of them, who shall be many; and ye shall
be among them, as a lion among the beasts of the for­
est, and as a young lion among the flocks of sheep,
who, if he goeth through, both treadeth down and
teareth in pieces, and none can deliver. Thy hand
shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all thine
enemies shall be cut off And 1 will gather mypeople
together, as a man gathereth his sheaves into the floor,
for Xwill make my people with whom the Father hath
covenanted, yea, I will make thy horn iron, and I will
make thy hoofs brass. And thou shall beat in pieces
many people; and I will consecrate their gain unto
the Lord, and their substance unto the Lord of the
whole earth. And behold, I am he who doeth il.—
Aqd it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that the
sword of my justice shall hang over them at that day;
and except they repent, it shall fall upon them, saith
the Father, yea, even upon all the nations of the Gen­
tiles. And it shall come to pass that I will establish
my people, O house of Israel. And behold, this peo­
ple will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of
the covenant which I made with your father Jacob;
and it shall be a new Jerusalem. And the powers of
heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even
I will be in the midst of you. Behold, 1 am be of
whom Moses spake, saying, a prophet shall the Lord
your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like un­
to me, him shall ye hear in all tilings whatsoever he
shall, say unto you. And it shall .come .to pass that
every soul who will not hear that prophet, shallbe cut
off from among the people. Verily, I say unto you,
yea; and all the prophets from Samuel, and those that
follow after, as many as have spoken, have testified of
me. And behold, ye are the children of the prophets;
and ye are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the
covenant which the Father made with your, fathers,
saying unto Abraham, and in thy seed, shall all tbe
kindreds of the earth be blessed; the Father having
raised me up unto you first, and sent me to bless you,
in turning away every one of you from his iniquities;
and this because ye are. the children of the covenant-
And after that ye were blessed, tiien fu|fi^pli*the F®'
ther the covenant which he made with Abraham, say*
ing, in thy seed shall all the kindreds.ofthe.earth b#
BOOI OF JTSFHX. m
Messed,, unto the pouring oat of the Holy Ghost
through me upon the Gentiles, which blessing upo»
the Gentiles, shell make them mighty above aB, onto
the scattering of my people, O house of Israel; and
they shall be a scourge unto the people of this land.—
Nevertheless, when they shall have received the ful­
ness ofmy gospel, then if they shall harden their hearts
against me, I will return their iniquities upon tbeir
own heads, saith the Father. And I will remember
the covenant which 1 have made with my people, and
1have covenanted with them, that I would gather
them together in mine own due time; that I would
give unto them again the land of their fathers, for
their inheritance, which is the land of Jerusalem,
which is the promised land unto them forever, saith
the Father.
And it shall come to pass that the time cometh,
when the fulness of my gospel shall be preached unto
them, and they shall believe in me, that I am Jesus
Christ, the Son of God, and shall pray unto the Father
in my name. Then shall their watchmen lift up their
voice; and with the voice together shall they sing:
for they shall see eye to eye. Then will the Father
gather them together again, and give unto them Jeru­
salem for the land of their inheritance. Then shall
they break forth into joy—sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem: for the Fattier hath comforted his
people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem. The Father hath
made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations:
and all the ends of the earth shall see tfie salvation of
the Father; and the Father and I are one. And then
shall be brought to pass that which is written, awake,
awake again, and put on thy strength, O Zion; put
on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city,
for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the
uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake thyself from
the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem; loose thyself
from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of
Zion, For thus saith the Lord, ye have sold yourselves
fornought; and ye shall be redeemed without money.
Verily, verily, 1 say unto you, that my people shall
know my name; yea, in that day they shall know
that 1 am he that doth speak. And then shall they
My, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of
him that hriogetb good tidings unto them, that pub-
h«heUi peace; that bringeth good tidings unto them
food, that puMisbeth salvation; that saith unto
Zion, thy God reignethl Arid then shall a cry go
forth, depart ye, depart ye,goyeoutfrom thence, touch
not that which is unclean; go ye'Out of tlie midst of her;
be ye clean', that bear the vessels of the Lord. For ye
shall not go out with haste,nor go by flight: forthe Lord
will go before you; and the God of Israel shall be your
rearward. ; Behold, my servant'shall' deal prudently,
he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very high.
As many were astonished at thee; (his visage was so
marred more than any man, and his form more than
the sons of men,} so shall he sprinkle many nations;
the kings shall shut their moriths at him, for that
which had been told them shall they see; and that
which they had not heard shall they consider. Verily,
verily, I say unto you, all theso things shall surely
come, even as the Father hath commanded me. Then
shall this covenant which the Father hath covenanted
with his people, be fulfilled; and then shall Jerusalem
be inhabited again with my people, and it shall be the
land of their inheritance. And verily, I say unto you,
1 give unto you a sign, that ye may know the time
wnen these things shall be about to take place, that I
shall gather in from their long dispersion, my people,
0 house of Israel, and shall establish again among
them my Zion. And behold, this is the tiring which
1 will give unto you for a sign, for verily, I say unto
you, that when these things which I declare unto you,
and which I shall declare unto, you hereafter of myself,
and by the power of the Holy Ghost, which shall be
given unto you of the Father, shall be made known
unto the Gentiles, that they inay know concerning this
people who are a remnant of the house of Jacob, and
concerning this my people who shall be scattered by
them; verily, verily, I say unto you, when these
things shall be made known unto them of the Father,
and shall come forth of the Father, from them unto
you, for it is wisdom in the Father that they should be
established in this land, and be set up as a free people
by the power of the Father, that these things might
come forth from them unto a remnant of your seed,
that the covenant of the Father may be fulfilled which
lie hath covenanted with his people, G house of Is­
rael; therefore, when these wotke, and the works
which shall be wrought among you hereafter, shall
come forth from the Gentiles unto your seed, which
•hall dwindle in rinbelifberihuee riEfriiriuity: fot inbaft
hehbovhth1-h#Faiherthat ■
it ittShKl eoirid' forth from
S 26 BOOK OF SWPHI.
BOOK OF KKPH1. 527
the Gentiles, that he may shew forth his power unto
the Gentiles, for this cause, that the Gentiles, if they
will not harden their hearts, that they may repent and
come unto me, and be baptized in my name, and know
of the true points of my doctrine, that they may be
numbered among my people, O house of Israel; and
when these things come to pass, that tby seed shall
begin to know these things, it shall be a sign unto
them, that they may know that the work of the Fa­
ther hath already commenced unto the fulfilling of the
covenant which he hath made unto the people who
are of the house of Israel. And when that day shall
come, it shall come to pass that kings shall shut their
mouths; for that which had not been told them shall
they see; and that which they had not heard shall
they consider. For in that day, for my sake shall the
Father work a work, which shall be a great and a mar­
velous work among them; and there shall be among
who will not believe it, although a man shall declare it
onto them. But behold, the life of my servant shall
be in iny hand; therefore they shall not hurt him, al­
though he shall be marred because of them. Yet I
will heal him, for 1 will shew unto them that my wis­
dom is greater than the cunning of the devil. There­
fore it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not be­
lieve in my words, who am Jesus Christ, whom the
Father shall cause him to bring forth unto the Gen­
tiles, and shall give unto him power that he shall
bring them forth unto the Gentiles, (it shall be done
even as Moses said,) they shall be cut off from ambng
iny people who are of the covenant; and my people
who are a remnant of Jacob, shall be among the Gen­
tiles, yea, in the midst of them, as a lion among the
beasts of the forest, as a young lion among the flocks
ofsheep, who, if he go through both treadeth down
and tearelh in pieces, and none can deliver. Their
hand shall be titled up upon their adversaries, and all
their enemies shall be cut off. Yea, wo be unto the
Gentiles, except they repent, for it shall come to pass
in that day, sailh the Father, that 1 will cut off tby
horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy tby
chariots, and 1 will cut off the cities of thy land, and
throw down all thy strong holds; and I will cut off
witchcrafts out of thy hand, and thou shall have no
more soothsayers: thy graven images 3 will also cut
o$ and thy steading images out of the midst of thee;
and thou shalt no more worship the works of thy
i
hanhs; and I will pluck up thy groves oat of the
midst of thee; so will I destroy thy cities. Audit
shell come to pass that all lyings, ana deceivings,and
envyings, and strifes^ and priestcrafts, and whoredoms,
shall he done away. For it shall come to pass, saith
the Father, that at that day, whosoever will not repent
and come unto my beloved Son, them will I cut off
from among my people, O house of Israel; and t will
execute vengeance and fury upon them, even as upon
the heathen, such as they have not heard.
523 t BOOK OF SET H I.
CHAPTER X.
But if they will repent, and hearken unto my words,
and harden not their hearts, I will establish my church
among them, and they shall come in unto the coven­
ant, and be numbered among this the remnant of Ja-
oob, unto whom I have given this land for their in­
heritance, and they shall assist my people, the rem­
nant of Jacob; and also, as many of the house of Is­
rael as shall come, that they may build a city, which
shall be called the NewJerusalem; and then shall they
assist my people that they may be gathered in, who
are scattered upon all the lace of the land, in unio the
New Jerusalem. And then shall the power ofheaven
come down among them; and I also will be in the
midst, and then shall the work of the Father commence,
at that day even when this gospel shall be preached
among the remnant of this people. Verily, Isay unto
you, at that day shall the work of the Father com­
mence among all the dispersed of my people; yea,
-even the tribes which have been lost, which the Fa­
ther hath led away out of Jerusalem, Yea, the work
shall commence among all the dispersed of my people,
with the Father, to prepare the way whereby they may
come .unto me, that they may call on the Father ia
my name; yea, and then shall the work commence,
with the Father, among all nations, in preparing the
way whereby his people may be gathered borne to the
land oftheir inheritance. And they shall go out from
all nations;vand they shall not go out in haste, nor go
by.fliffhtt- ibr I-wUigo beforethe^saitfathe Father,
and P w
iU
>be iheir xearward.^And then shall that
BOOK OF NF.PHI,
which is written come to pas?. Sing* O barren, thon
that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and cry
aloud, thou that didst not travail with child; for more
are the children of the desolate than the children of
the married wife, sailh the Lord. Enlarge the place
ofthy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of
thy habitations; spare not, lengthen thy cords, and
strengthen thy stikes; for thou shall break lorth on
the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall in­
herit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be
inhabited. Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed;
neither be thou confounded: for thou shalt not be put
to shame: for thou shalt forget the shame ofthy youth,
and shalt not remember the reproach of thy youth, and
shalt not remember the reproach ol thy widowhood
any more. For thy maker, thy husband, the Lord
of hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer, the Hoiv
One of Israel; the God of the whole earth shall
he be called. For the Lord hath called thee as a
woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, and a wife'
of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God.
For a smalt moment have I forsaken thee; but with
Kt mercies will I gather thee. In a little wrath
d my face from thee for a moment; but with
everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith
the Lord thy Redeemer. For this, the waters of
Noah unto tae, for as I have sworn that the waters
of Noah should no more go over the earth, so have I
sworn that I would not be wroth with thee. For
the mountains shall depart and the hills be remov­
ed; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neith­
er shall the covenant of my people be removed, saith
the Lord that hath mercy on thee.
O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not com­
forted! behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors,
and lay thy foundations with sapphires. And I will
make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of carbun­
cles, and ail thy borders of pleasant stones. And all
thy children shall be taught of the Lord; and great
shall be the peace of thy children. In righteousness
shalt thou be established, thou shalt be far from op­
pression; for thou shalt not fear, and from terror; for
it shall not come near thee. Behold, they shall surely
gather together against thee, not by me; whosoever
shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy
sake. Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth
529
A
530 bo ok o r m e p h i.
the coals in the fire, and that bringetbforth an instru­
ment for his work; and I have created the waster to
destroy. No weapon that is formed against thee shall
prosper*1and every tongue that shall rise against tbee
in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the herit­
age of> the servants of the Lord, and their righteous­
ness is of me, saith the Lord. And now behold I say
onto you, that ye had ought to search these things.
Yea, a commandment I give unto you, that ye search
these things diligently; for great are the words of
Isaiah. For surely he spake as touching all things
concerning my people which are of the house of
Israel; therefore it must needs be that he must
speak also to the Gentiles. And all things that he
spake, hath been, and shall be, even according to
the words which he spake. Therefore give heed to
my words, write the things which I have told you;
and according to the time and the will of the Fa­
ther, they shall go forth unto the Gentiles. And
whosoever will hearken unto my words, and repent-
elh, and is baptized, the same shall be saved. Search
the prophets, for many there be that testify of these
tilings.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had said
these words, he said unto them again, after he had ex­
pounded all the scriptures unto them which they had
received, he said unto them, behold, other scriptures I
would that ye should write, that ve have not. And it
came to pass that he said onto Nephi, bring forth the
record which ye have kept. And when Nephi had
brought .forth the records, and laid them before him,
lie cast his eyes upon them, and said verily, I say unto
you, 1 commanded my servant Samuel, the Lamanite,
that he should testify unto this people, that at the day
that the Father should glorify his name in me, that
there were many saints who should arise from the
dead, and should appear unto many, and should min­
ister unto them. And he said unto them, were it not
so? And his disciples answered him and said, yea,
Lord, Samuel did prophes? according to thy words,
and they were all fulfilled. And Jesus said unto them,
how be it that ye have not written this tiling, that
many saints did arise and appear unto many, and did
minister unto them? And it came to pass that Nephi
remembered that this tiding had not been;- written.
And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it
•Honid be written; therefore it v u written according
m he commanded.
j
* CHAPTER XI.
Ann mw it came to pass that when Jesus had ex­
pounded all the scriptures in one, which they had
written he commanded them that they should teach 4
the things which he had expounded unto them. And
it came to pass that he commanded them that they
should write the words which the Father had given
unto Malaehi, which he should tell unto them. And
it came to pass that after they were written, he ex­
pounded them. And these are the words which he
did tell unto them, saying, thus said the Father unto
Malaehi, behold, I will send my messenger, and lie ,
shall prepare Ihe way before me, and the Lord, whom
ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the
messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in; be­
hold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. But
who may abide the day of his corningt and who shall
stand when he appearethT for he is like a refiner’s
fire, and like fuller’s soap. And he shall sit as a re­
finer and purifyer of silver; and he shall purify the
sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that
they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteous­
ness. Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem
be pleasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and
as in former years. And I will come near to you to
judgmental and I will be a swift witness against the
sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against fills t
swearers, and against those that oppress tne hireling'-
in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger, and fear not me, saith the Lord
of hosts. For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ^
ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. I1
?
'•*Evan fromthe days ofyour fathers ye are gone away
front mine ordinances, and ‘have not kept them. ^Re­
turn unto me, anti [ will return unto you, saith the
Lord of hosts; But ye said, wherein shall we return ?
v* Will a than rob God! Yet ye have robbed me.* But
ye say, wherein have we robbed5thee1 In tithes and
offerings. Ye are cursed' with a nurse, for ye have
5 3 2 BOOK OF KEFHI.
robbed me, even ibis whole nation. Brin? ye all the
tithes into the storehouse, that there may he meat in
my house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord
of hosts, if 1 will not open you,the windows of heaven,
and pour you out a blessing, that there shall' not be
room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke the de-
vourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the
fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her
fruit before the time in the fields, saith the Lord of
hosts. And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye
shall be a delightsome land, saith Uie Lord of hosts.
Your words have been stout against me, saith the
Lord. Yet ye say, what have we spoken against thee?
Ye have said, it is vain to serve God, and what doth
it profit that we have kept his ordinance, and that we
have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts!
And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that
work wickedness are set up; yea, them that tempt
God are even delivered.
Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to
another, and the Lord hearkened, and heard; and a
book of remembrance was written before him for them
that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name,
And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in
that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare
them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him.
Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous
and the wicked, between him that serveth God and
him that serveth him not. For behold, the day com-
eth, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud,
yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and
the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the
Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor
branch.
But unto you that fear my name, shall the Son of
righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye
shall go forth, and grow up as calves in the stall.—
And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be
ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I
shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts. Remember ye
the law of Moses my servant, which I commanded
unto him in Horeb for ail Israel, with tbs statutes and
judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah the pro­
phet before the coming of the great and dreadful day
of the Lord; and he shall turn the heart of.the fathers
to the children, and the heart.of the children to their
fathers; lest I come and emite the earth with a curse.
BOOS OF MCPHT. 633
'And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told
these things, he expounded them unto the multitude,
and he did expound all things unto them, bolh great
and small. And he suith, these scriptures which ye
had not with you, the Father commanded that I should
give onto you, for it was wisdom in him that they
should be given unto future generations. And he did
expound all things, even from the beginning until the
time that he should come in his glory; yea, even all
things which should come upon the face of the earth,
even until the elements should melt with fervent heat,
and the earth should be wrapt together as a scroll, and
the heavens and the earth should pass away; and even
unto the great and last day, when all people, and all
kindreds, and all nations and tongues shall stand be­
fore God, to be judged of their works, whether they be
good or whetiier they be evil: if they be good, to the
resurrection of everlasting life; and if they be evil, to
the resurrection of damnation, being on a parallel, the
one on the one hand, and the other on the other hand
according to the mercy, and thejustice, and the holi-
uess which is in Christ, who was before the world
began.
■
t
CHAPTER XII.
Asn now there cannot be written in this book, eve*
ahundredth part of the things which Jesus did truly
teach unto the people; but behold the plates of Nephi ^
docontain the more part of the things which he taught -
the people; 'ibd these things have I written, which
are a lesser part ofthe things which he taught the peo­
ple; and I have written them to the intent that they
may be brought again unto tbiB people, from the Gen­
tiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken.
And when they shall have received this, which is ex­
pedient that they should have first, to try their faith,
and if it shall so be that they shall believe these things,
then shall the greater things be made manifest unto
them. And if it so be that they will not believe these
things, then shall the greater things be withheld from
them, unto their condemnation. Behold I were about
to write them all which were engraven upon the plates
ofNephij bul the Lord forbid it, saying, 1 will tty the
BOOK o r B ZPH i.
fcith of my people; therefore I, Mormon, do write tfts
things whroh have been commanded me of the Lord.
And now I. Mormon, make an end of my sayings, and
proceed to write the things which have been command,
ed me; therefore I would that ye should behold that
the Lord truly did teach the people, for the space of
three days; and after that, he did shew himself unto
(hem ofi, and did break bread oft, and bless it, and giro
it unto them.
, And it came to pass that he did teach and minister
onto the children of the multitude of whom hath been
spoken, and he did loose their tongues, and they did
speak unto their fathers great and marvelous things,
even greater than he had revealed unto the people, and
loosed their tongues that they could utter. And it
came to pass that after he had ascended into heaven
the second time that he shewed himselfunto them, and
had gone unto the Father, afterhaving healed all their
sick, and their lame, and opened the-eyes of their
blind, and unstopped the ears ot the deaf, and even
had done all manner of cures among them, and raised
a man from the dead, and had shewn forth his power
nnto them, and had ascended unto the Father, behold,
it came to pass on the morrow, that the multitude
fathered themselves together, and they both saw and
eard these children; yea, even babes did open their
mouths, and utter marvelous things; and the things
which they did utter were forbidden, that there should
not any man write them. And it came to pass that
the disciples whom Jesus had chosen, began from that
time forttt to baptize and to teach as many as did coma
unto them; and as many as wore baptized in the name
of Jesus, were filled with the Holy Ghosh And many
of them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are
not lawfid to be written; and they taught, end did
minister one to another; and they had all things com­
mon among them, every man dealing justly, one with
another. And it came to pass that they did do afi
things, even as Jesus bad commanded them. And
they who were baptized in the name of Jesus, were
called the church of Christ.
And it came to pass that as the disciples of Jesus
vpere journeying and were preaching the things which
they nad both heard and seen, and were baptizing in
the name of Jesus, it came to,,pass that the disciple8
were gathered together, and were united in mighty
prayer uM'f&itfoj^ And'Jesus’again shewed himself
6 3 4
BOOK OF X EPBI. 535
onto them, for they were praying unto the Father, in
his name; and Jesus came and stood in the midst of
them, and saith unto them, what will ye that 1 shall
give unto you; and they said unto him, Lord, we
will that thou wouldst tell us the name whereby we
shall call this church; for there are disputations among
the people concerning this matter. And the Lord
said unto them, verily, verily I say unto you, why is
it that the people should murmur and dispute because
ofthis thingt have they not read the scriptures, which
say ye must take upon you the name of Christ, which
is my name! for by this name shall ye be called at the
last day; and whoso laketh upon him my name, and
endareth to the end, the same shall be saved at the
last day; therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall
doit in my name; therefore ye shall call the church in
my name; and ye shall call upon the Father in my
name, that he will bless the church for my sake; and
how be it my church, save it be called in my name!
for if a church be called in Moses’ name, then it be
Moses’ church; or if it be called in the name of a man,
then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my
name, then it is my church, if it so be that they are
built upon my gospel. Verily 1 say unto you, that ye
are built upon my gospel; therefore ye shall call what­
soever things ye do call in my name; therefore if ye
call upon the Father, for the church, if it be in my
name, the Father will hear you; and if it so be that
the church is built upon my gospel, then will the Fa­
ther shew forth his own worlis in it; but if it be not
built upon my gospel, and is built upon the works of
men, or upon the works of the devil, verily I say unto
you, they have joy in their works for a season, and by
and by the end cometh, and they are hewn down and
cast into the fire, from whence there is no return; for
their works do follow them, for it is because of their
works that they are hewn down; therefore remember
the things that 1 have toid you. Behold 1 have given
onto you my gospel, and this is the gospel which 1
have given unto you, that I came into the world to do
the will of my Father, because my Father sent me;
and my Father sent me that 1 might be lifted up upon
the cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the
cross, I might draw all men unto me; that as I have
been lifted up by men, .even so should men be lifted up
by the Father, tostandbefore me, to bejudged ol their
works, whether they be good or whether they be evil;
5 3 6 BOOK OF NEFHI.
and for this cause have I been lifted up; therefore, ac­
cording to Ihs power ofthe Father, I will draw all men
unto me, that they may be judged according to their
works. And it shall come to pass, that whoso repent-
eth and is baptized in my name, shall be filled; and if
he endurelh to the end, behold, him will I hold guilt-
less before my Father, at that day when I shall stand
to judge the world. And lie that endureth not unto
the end, the same is he that is also hewn down and
cast into the fire, from whence they can no more re.
turn, because of the justice of the Father; and this is
the word which he hath given unto the children of
men. And for this cause he fulfillelh the words which
he hath given, and he lieth not, but fulfillelh all his
words; and no unclean thing can enter into his king­
dom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest, save it
be those who have washed their garments in my blood,
because of their faith, and the repentance of all their
■ins, and their faithfulness unto the end. Now this
is the commandment, repent, ail ye ends of the earth,
and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that
ye may be sanctified by the recpption of the Holy
Ghost, that ye may stand spotless before me at the
last day. Verily, verily I say unto you, this is my
gospel; and ye know the things that ye must do in m
y
church; for the works which ye have seen me do, that
shall ye also do; for that which ye have seen me do,
even that shall ye do; therefore if ye do these things,
blessed are ye, for ye shall be lifted up at the last day.
CHAPTER XIII.
W*UTK the things which ye have seen and heard,
save it be those which are forbidden; write the works
of this people, which shall be even as hath been writ­
ten of that which hath been; for behold, out of the
books which have been written, and which shall be
written, shall this people be judged, for by them shall
their works be known unto men. And behold, all
things are written.by the Father; therefore out of tbs
books which shall be written, shall the world bejudg­
ed.4 *Andknow ye that ye shall be judges of this peo-
pie, according to the judgment which fsba!) give unto
BOOK OF JCEFHi. 53T
joa, which shall he just; therefore what manner of
men had ye ought to be! Verily I say unto you, even
as I am. And now I go unto the Father. Ami verily
I say unto you, whatsoever things ye shall ask the Fa*
tiier, m my name, it shall be given unto you; there­
fore ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be
opened unto you: for he that asketh, receiveth, and
untohim that knocked), it shall be opened. And now
behold, my joy is great, even unto fulness, because of
you, and also this generation; yea, and even the Fa­
ther rejoiced), and also all the holy angels, because of
you and this generation: for none ot them are lost.
Behold, I would that ye should understand; for I mean
them who are now alive, of this generation; and
none of them are lost; and in them 1 have fulness of
joy. But behold, it sorroweth me because of the
fourth generation from this generation, for they are
led away captive by him, even as was the son of per­
dition; for they will sell me for silver, and for gold,
sad for that which moth doth corrupt, and which
thieves can break through and steal. And in that day
will 1 visit them, even in turning their works upon
their own heads.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had ended
these sayings, he saith unto his disciples, enter ye in
at the straight gate: for straight is the gale,and narrow
' is the way that leads to life, and few there be that find
it, bnt wide is the gate, and broad the way which
leads to death, and many there be that travel therein,
until the night cometh, wherein no man can work.
And it came to pass when Jesus had said these
words, he spake unto his disciples, one by one, saying
unto them, what is it that ye desire of me, after that
I am gone to the Father! And they all spake, save it
were three, we desire that after we have lived unto
the age of man, that our ministry, wherein thou haBt
called us, may have an end, that we may speedily coma
unto thee, in thy kingdom. And he said unto them,,
blessed are ye, because ye desired this thing of me;
therefore after that ye are seventy and two yean old,
ye shall come unto me in my kingdom, and with me
ye shall find rest. And when he had spoken unto
them, he turned himself unto the three, and said unto
them, what will ye that I should do unto ,you, when I
am gone onto the Father! And they sorrowed in
their hearts, for they durst not speak'unto him the
thing which they desired. And he said unto them,
538 BOOK OB KB,PHI.
behold, I know your thoughts, and ye have desired
the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me
in my ministry, before that I was lifted up by the
Jews, desired of me; therefore more blessed are ye,
for ye shall never taste of death, but ye shall live to
behold all the doings of the Father, unto the children
of men, even until all things shall be fulfilled, accord*
ing to the will of the Father, when 1 shall come in my
glory, with the powers of heaven; and ye shall never
endure the pains of death; but when I shall come in
my glory, ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an
eye, from njkprjfality to immortality; and then shall ye
be blessed in Ihe-kingdom of my Father. And again,
ye shall not have pain while ye shall dwell in the flesh,
neither sorrow, save it be for the sins of the world;
and all this will I do because of the thing which ye
have desired of me, for ye have desired that ye might
bring the souls of men unto me, white the world shall
stand; and for this cause ye shall have fulness of joy;
and ye shall sit down in the kingdom of my Father;
yea; your joy shall be full, even as the Father hath
given me fulness ofjoy; and ye shall be even as I am,
and I am even as the Father; and the Father and I are
one; and the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father
and me; and the Father giveth the Holy Ghost unto
the children of men, because of me.
And it came to pass that when Jesu3 had spoken
these words, be touched every one of them with his
finger, save it were the three who were to tarry, and
then he departed. And behold, the heavens were
opened, and they were caught up into heaven, and
saw and heard unspeakable things. And it was for­
bidden them that they should uttter; neither was it
given unto them power that they could utter the
things which they saw and heard; and whether they
were in the body or out of the body, they could not
tell; for it did seem unto them like &transfiguration
rif them, that they were changed from this body of
flesh, into au immortal state, that they could behold
the things of God. But it came to pass that they did
again minister upon the face of the earth; neverthe­
less they did not minister of the things which they
had heard and£; seen, because of the commandment
which was given them in heaven, And now whether
they were mortal or immortal, from the day of their
transfiguration, I know not; but thisT
'much I know,
aocordiog to the’record which bath .been given* they
,v
b o o k o r i t t i o . 639
did go wth upon the face of the land, and did minis*
ter unto all the people, nutting u many to the church
as would believe in their preaching; baptizing them;
and aa many as were baptized, did receive the Holy
Ghost; and they were cast into prison by them who
did not belong to the church. And the prisons could
not hold them, for they were rent in twain, and they
were cast down into the earth. But they did smite
the earth with the word of God, insomuch that by his
power they were delivered out of the depths of the
earth; and therefore they could not dig pits sufficient
to hold them. And thrice they were cast into a fur­
nace, and received no harm. And twice were they
cut into a den of wild beasts; and behold they did
plsv with the beasts, as a child with a suckling lamb,
tad received no harm. And it came to pass that thus
they did go forth among all the people of Nephi, and
did preach the gospel of Christ unto all people upon
the face of the land; and they were converted unto
the Lord, and were united unto the church of Christ,
and thus the people of that generation were blessed,
according to the word of Jesus. And now 1, Mor­
mon,make an end ofspeaking concerning these thingr,
fora time. Behold, 1 was about to write the names of
those who were never to taste of death; but the Lord
forbade, therefore I write them not, for they are hid
from the world. But behold I have seen them, and
they have ministered unto me: and behold they will
be among the Genlilea, and the Gentiles knoweth
them not They wilt also be among the Jews, and
the Jews shall know them not
And it shall come to pass, when the Lord seeth fit
in his wisdom, that they shall minister unto all the
scattered tribes of Israel, and unto all nations, kind­
reds, tongues and people, and shall bring out of them
unto Jesus many souls, that their desire may be fulfil­
led, and also because of the convincing power of God
which is in them; and they are as the angels of God
and if they shall pray unto the Father in the name of
Jesus they can shew themselves unto whatsoever man
it soemeth them good; therefore great and marvelous
Works shall be wrought by them, before the great and
coming day, when all people must surely stand before
judgment seat of Christ: yen even among the Gea-
tilesshall there be a great and marvelous work wrought
hr them, before that judgment day.* And if ye had all
me scripture* which give an account of all the marvel­
.540 BOOit OF KEPHI.
ous works of Christ, ye would, according to the words
of Christ, know that these thing# must surely come.
And wo be unto him that will not hearken unto the
words of Jesus, and also to them whom he hath cho­
sen and sent among them, for whoso receiveth not the
words of Jesus, and the words of those whom he hath
#ent, receiveth not him; and therefore be will not re­
ceive them at the last day; and it would be better for
them if they had not been born- For.do ye suppose
that ye can get rid of the justice of an offended God,
who hath been trampled under feet of men, that there­
by salvation might come? And now behold, as I spake
concerning those whom the Lord had chosen, yea,
even three who were caught up into the heavens, that
I knew not whether they were cleansed from mortali­
ty to immortality. But behold, since I wrote, I have
inquired of the Lord, and he hath made it manifest un­
to me, that there must needs be a change wrought up­
on their bodies, or else it needs be that they must taste
of death; therefore that they might not taste of death,
there was a change wrought upon their bodies, that
they night not suffer pain nor sorrow, save it were for
the sins of the world. Now this change was not equal
to that which should take place at the last day; but
there was a change wrought upon them, insomuch
that satan could nave no power over them, that he
could not tempt them, and they were sanctified in the
flesh, that they were holy, and that the powers ofthe
earth could not hold them; and in this state they were
to remain until the judgment day of Christ; and at
that day they were to receive o greater change, and to
be received into the kingdom of the Father to go no
more out, but to dwell with God eternally in the heav­
ens. And now behold, I say unto you, that when the
Lord shall see fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings
shall come unto the Gentiles, according to his word,
then ye may know that the covenant which the Fa­
ther hath made with the children of Israel, concerning
their restoration to the lands of their inheritance, is
already beginning to be fulfilled; and ye may know
that tne words of the Lord, which have been spoken
by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need
not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the chil­
dren of Israel; and ye need not imagine in your hearts
that the words which have' been spoken are vain, for
behold, the Lord will remember his covenant which he
hath made unto his people of the house ofIsrael And
BOOK OF HEPHI. 541
when ye shall see these savings coming forth among
you, then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings
ofthe Lord, for the sword of hts justice is in his right
hand, and behold at that day, if ye shall spurn at his
doings, he will cause that it shall soon overtake you.
Wounto him that spurnethul ihe doings of the Lord;
yea, wo unto him that shall deny the Christ and his
works; yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revela­
tions of the Lord, and that shall say, the Lord no
longer worketh by revelation, or by prophecy, or by
gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by the power
of the Holy Ghost; yea, and wo unto him that shall
say at that day, that there can be no miracle wrought
br Jesus Christ, to get gain; for he that doeth this,
saall become like unto the son of perdition, far whom
there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ.
Yea, and ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor
make game ofthe Jews, nor any of the remnant of the
house of Israel, for behold the Lord remembereth his
covenant unto them, and he will do unto them accor­
ding to that which he hath sworn; therefore ye need
not suppose that ye can turn the right hand of the
Lord unto the left, that he may not execute judgment
onto the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made
onto the bouse of Israel.
H»akkk!t
, O ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Je­
na Christ, the Son of the living God, which he hath
commanded me that I should speak concerning you,
for, behold he comm&ndeth me that I should write say-
log, turn, all ye Gentiles, from your wicked ways, and
repent of your evil doings, of your Jvings and deceiv­
ing*, and of your whoredoms, and of your secret abom­
inations, and your idolatries, and of your murders, and
jour priestcrafts, and your envyings, and your strifes,
*nd from all your wickedness and abominations, and
come unto me, and be baptized in my name, that ye
®*y receive a remission of your Bins, and be filled
with the Holy Ghost, that ye may be numbered with
my people, who are of the house of Israel. ^ ;!
i,5%
CHAPTER XIV.
THE BOOK O f NEPHI, WHO IS THE SON
OP NEPHI, ONE OF THE
DISCIPLES OF JESUS CHRIST.
CHAPTER I.
An account of the people of Nephi} according to U
s
record.
Akd it came to pass that the thirty and fourth yt«
passed away, and also the^thirty and Ml), and behold
the disciples of Jesus had iorined a church of Christ in
all the lands round about. And as many as did com
e
unto them, and did truly repent of their sins, were
baptized in the name of Jesus; and they did alsore­
ceive the Holy Ghost.
And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, die
people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the
face of the land both Neplutes and Lamanites, and
there were no contentions and disputations among
them, and every man did deal justly one with another;
and they had all things common among them, there­
fore there were not ricli and poor, bond and free, but
they were all made free, and partakers of the heaven­
ly gift.
And it came to pass that the thirty and seventh yea)
passed away also, and there still continued to be peace
in the land. And there were great and marvelous
works wrought by the disciples of Jesus,'1
insomuch
that they did heal the sick, and raise the dead, .and
cause the lame to walk, and the blind to receive their
sight, and the deaf to hear; and all manner o f miracles
did they work among the children of men; andin
nothing did they work; miracles save' it were in the
name of Jesus. And thus did the- thirty and eighth
year pass away* and also the thirty and ninth, andthe
forty and first, and the forty and second; yea, evenon-
&
Uforty and nine years bad passed away, rind also the
-fifty and first, and the fifty and "second; yea,'and even
until fifty and nine years had passed away; and ^
BOOK o r VKFBf. 5 4 3
Lord did prosper them exceedingly, in the land; yea,
insomuch that they did fill cities again where there had
been cities burned; yea, even that great city Zarabem*
Udid they cause to be built again. But there were
manycities which had been sunk, and waters came up
inthe stead thereof; therefore these cities could not
berenewed.
And now behold it came to pass that the people of
Xephi did wax strong, and did multiply exceeding fast,
tnd became an exceeding fair and delightsome people.
And they were married, and given in marriage, and
were blessed according to the multitude of the promis­
es which the Lord had made unto them. And they
didnot walk any more after the performances and or­
dinances of the law of Moses, but they did walk after
thecommandments which they had received from their
Lord and their God, continuing in fasting and prayer,
and in meeting together oft, both to pray and to hear
theword of the Lord. And it came to pass that there
was no contention among all the people, in all the
land, but there were mighty miracles wrought among
thedisciples of Jesus.
And it came to pass that the seventy and first year
passed away, and also the seventy and second year;
yea, and iu fine, till the seventy and ninth year had
passed away; yea, even an hundred years had passed
away, and the disciples of Jesus, whom he had chosen,
hadall gone to the paradise of God, save it were the
three who should tarry; and there wereother disciples
ordained in their stead; and also many of that genera­
tion which had passed away. And it came to pass
that there was no contention in the land, because of
the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the
people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor
tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor
A
nymanner of lasciviousness; and surely there could
not be a happier people among all the people who had
been created by the hand of God; there were no rob­
bers, nor murderers,, neither were there Lamanites,
orany manner of ites; but they were in one, the chil­
dren of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God; and
bow blessed were they, for the Lord did bless them in
th their doings; yea, even they were blessed and pros­
pered, until an hundred end ten years had passed away;
Andthe first generation from Christ had passed away,
*»d there woe no contention in all the land. - v
s ' * • fc;.-.,-.. * , ■
-ii.'
m aO O K \orT HEPHI.
And it came to pass that Nephi, he that kept this
last record, (and he kept it upon the plates of Nephi)
died, and his son Amos kept it in Itia stead; and he
kept it upon the plates of Nephi also; and he kept it
eighty aud four years, and there,was still peace in the
land, save it were a small part of the people who had
revolted from the church, and took upon them the
name of Lamanites; therefore there began to be La-
manites again in the land.
And it came to pass that Amos died also, (and it
was an hundred and ninety and four years from the
coming of Christ,) and htB son Amos kept the record
in his stead; and he also kept it upon the plates of
Nephi; and it was also written in the book of Nephi,
which is this book. And it came to pass that two
hundred years had passed away, and the second gene­
ration had all passed away save it were a few. And
now 1, Mormon, would that ye should know that the
people bad multiplied, insomuch that they were spread
upon all the face of the land, and that they had become
exceeding rich, because of their prosperity in Christ.
And now in this two hundred and first year, there be­
gan to be among them those who were lifted up In
pride, such as the wearing of costly apparel, andall
manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the
world. And from that time forth they did have their
goods and their substance no more common among
them, and they began to be divided into classes, and
they began to build up churches unto themselves, to
get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ
And it came to pass that when two hundred and ten
years had passed away there were many churches in
the land; yea, there were many churches which pro­
fessed to know the Christ, and yet they did deny the
more parts of his gospel, insomuch that they did re­
ceive all manner of wickedness, and did administer
that which was sacred unto him to whom it had been
forbidden, because of unwortbiness. And this church
did multiply exceedingly, because of iniquity, and be­
cause of the power of satan who did get hold upon
their hearts. And again, there was another church
which denied the Christ; and they did persecute the
true church of Christ, because of their humility, ana
their belief in Christ; and they did despise them, be­
cause of the^ many miracles which were wrought
among them; therefore they did exercise power and
authority over the disciples of Jesus who did tarry
BOOS OF K-EFHI. 5 4 5
with them, arid they did cast them into prison; but
by the power of the word of God, which was in them,
the prisons were rent in twain, and they went forth
doing mighty miracles among them. Nevertheless,
and notwithstanding all these miracles the people did
harden their hearts, and did seek to kill them, even as
the Jews at Jerusalem sought to kill Jesus, according
to his word, and they did cast them into furnaces of
fire, and they came forth receiving no harm; and they
also cast them into dens of wild beasts, and they did
play with the wild beasts even as a child with a lamb;
and they did come forth from among them, receiving
no harm. Nevertheless, the people did harden their
hearts, for they were led by many priests and false
prophets to build up many churcfics, and to do all
manner of iniquity. And they did smite upon the
people of Jesus; but the people of Jesus did not smite
again. And thus they did dwindle in unbelief and
wickedness, from year to year, even until two hundred
and thirty years had passed away. And now it came
to pass in this year, yea, in the two hundred and thir­
ty and first year, there was a great division among the
people. And it came to pass that in this year there
arose a people who were called the Nephites, and they
were true believers in Christ; and among them there
were those who were called by the Lamanites, Jacob­
ites, and Josephites, and Zoramites; therefore the
true believers in Christ, and the true worshipers of
Christ, (among whom were the three disciples of Je­
sus who should tarry,) were called Nephites, and Ja­
cobites, and Josephites, and Zoramites. And it came
to pass that they who rejected the gospel, were called
Lamanites, and Lemuelites and Tshmaelites; and they
did not dwindle in unbelief, but they did wilfully re­
bel against the gospel of Christ; and they did teach
their children that they should not believe, even as
their fathers, from the beginning, did dwindle. And
it was because of the wickedness and abominations of
their fathers, even as it was m the beginning. And
they were taught to hate the children of God, even as
the Lamanites were taught t,o hate the children of
Nephi, from the beginning.
And it came to pass that two hundred and forty and
fouryears bad passed away, and thus were the affairs
of the people. And the more wicked part of the peo­
ple did wax strong, and became exceeding more nu-
§ w2
546 BOOK OB HEPHI.
merous than were the people of God. And they did
still continue to build up churches unto themselves,
and adorn them with all manner of precious things—
And thus did two hundred and fifty years pass away,
and also two hundred abd sixty years. And it came
to pass that the wicked part of the people began again
to build up the secret oaths and combinations of tiad-
dianton. And also the people who were called the
people of Nephi, began to be proud in their hearts, be­
cause of their exceeding riches, and become vain, like
unto their brethren, the Lamanites. And from this
time, the disciples began to sorrow for the sins of the
world.
And it came to pass that when three hundred years
had passed away, both the people of Nephi and the
Lamanites had become exceeding wicked one like unto
another. And it came to pass that the robbers of Gad-
dianton did spread over all the face of the land; and
there were none that were righteous, save it were the
disciples of Jesus. And gold and silver did they lay
up in store in abundance, and did traffic in all manner
of traffic.
And it came to pass that after three hundred and
five years had passed away, (and the people did still
remain inwickedness,) Amos died, and hie brother Am-
maron, did keep the record in his stead. And it came
to pass that when three hundred and twenty years had
passed away, Ammaron, being constrained by the Ho­
ly Ghost, did hide up the records which were sacred;
yea, even all the sacred records which had been band­
ed down from generation to generation, which were
sabred, even until the three hundred and twentieth
year from the coming of Christ And he did hide
them up unto the Low, that they might come again
unto the remnant of the house of Jacob, according to
the prophecies and the promises of the Lord. And
thus is the end of the record of Ammaron.
•i
CHAPTER I.
Ahd now 1f Mormon, make a record of the thinge
which I have both seen and heard, and call it the book
ofMormon. And abont the time that Ammaron hid
up the records unto the Lord, he came unto me, (I be­
ing abont ten years of age; and I began to be learned
somewhat after the manner of the learning of my peo­
ple,) and Ammaron said onto me, I perceive that thou
art a sober child, and art quick to observe; therefore
when ye are about twenty and four years old, I would
that ye should remember the things that ye have ob­
served concerning this people; and when ye are of that
age, go to the land Antum, unto a hill, which shall be
called Shim; and there have I deposited unto the Lord,
all the sacred engravings concerning this, people.—
And behold, ye snail take the plates of Nephi unto
yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the place
where they are; and ye shall engrave on the plates of
Nephi, all the things that ye have observed concerning
this people. And I, Mormon, being a descendant of
Nephi, (and my father’s name was Mormon,) I re­
membered the things which Ammaron commanded me.
And it came to pass that I, being eleven years old,
was carried by my father into tne land southward,
even to the land of Zarahemla; the whole face ofthe
land having become covered with buildings, and the
people were as numerous almost, as it were the sand
of the sea. And it came to pass in this year, there be­
gan to be a war between the Nephites, who consisted
of the Nephites, and the Jacobites, and the Josephites,
and the Zoramitee; alid this war was between the Ne­
phites, and the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and.
the Ishmaelites. Now the Lamanites, and the Lemu­
elites, and the Ishmaelites, were called Lamanites, and
the two parties were Nephites and Lamanites. And
it sam
eto pass that the war began to be among theta
in the borders of Zarahemla, by the waters of Sidon.
Ana it came to pass that the Nephites had gathered
together a great number of m
en, even to exceed the
-iK
^ r
BOOK OF MORMON.
648 BOOK OF MORMOS.
number of thirty thousand- And it came to pass that
they did have in this same year a number of battles,
in the which the Nephiles did beat the Lamanites, and
did slay many of them. And it came to pass that the
Lamanites withdrew their design, and there was peace
settled in the land, and peace did remain for the space
of about four years, that there was no blood shed.—
But wickedness did prevail upon the face of the whole
land, insomuch that the Lord did take away his belov­
ed disciples, and the work. of miracles and of healing
did cease, because of the iniquity of the people. And
there were no gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost
did not come upon any, because of their wickedness
and unbelief. And I, being fifteen years of age, and
being somewhat of a sober mind, therefore I was visit­
ed of the Lord, and tasted, and knew of the goodness
of Jesus. And I did endeavor to preach unto this peo-
r
le, but my mouth was shut, and I was forbidden that
should preach unto them; for behold they had wil­
fully rebelled against their God, and the beloved disci­
ples were taken away out of the land, because of their
iniquity. But I did remain among them, but I was
forbidden to preach unto them, because of the hardness
of their hearts; and because of the hardness of their
hearts, the land was cursed for their sake. And these
Gaddianton robbers, who were among the Lamanites,
did infest the land, insomuch that the inhabitants
thereof began to hide up their treasures in the earth;
and they became slippery, because the Lord had curs­
ed the land, that they could not hold them, nor retain
them again. And it came to pass that there were
sorceries, and witchcrafts, and magics; and the power
of the evil one was wrought upon all the face of the
land, even unto the fulfilling of all the words ofAbin-
adi, and also Samuel the Lamanite. And it came to
pass in that same year, there began to be a war again
between the Nephftes and the Lamanites. And not­
withstanding I being young, was l&rpe in stature,
therefore the people of Nephi appointed me that I
should be their leader, or the leader of their armies-—
Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I
did go forth at the head of an army of the Nepbites,
against the Lamanites; therefore three hundred and
twenty and six years had passed away. And it came
to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and sev­
enth year, the Lamanites did come upon us with ex­
ceeding.great power* insomuch that the/ did frighted
BOOK or HORXOB. 549
my armies; therefore they would not fight, and they
began to retreat towards the north countries. And it
came to pass that we did come to the city of Angola,
and we did take possession of the city, and make prep­
arations to defend ourselves against the Lamanilea.-r-
And it came to pass that we did fortify the city with
our mights; but notwithstanding all our fortifications,
the Lamanites did come upon us, and did drive us out
of the city. And they did also drive us forth out of
the land of Oavid. And we marched forth and came
to the land of Joshua, which was in the borders west,
by the seashore. And it came to pass that we did
gather in our people as fast as it were possiblo, that
we might get them together in one body. But behold,
the land was filled with robbers and with Lamanites;
andnotwithstanding the great destruction which hung
over my people, they did not repent of their evil do­
ings; therefore there was blood and carnage spread
throughout all the face of the land, both on the part
of the Nephites, and also on the part of the Laman­
ites; and it was one complete revolution throughout
all the face of the (and. And now the LamaniteB had
a king, and his name was Aaron; and he came against
us with an army of forty and four thousand. And be­
hold, I withstood him with forty and two thousand.—
And it came to pass that I beat him with my army,
that he fled before me. And behold, all this was done
and three hundred and thirty years had passed away.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent
of their iniquity, and began to cry even as had been
prophesied by Samuel the prophet; for behold no man
could keep that which was his own, for the thieves,
and the robbers, and the murderers, and the magic
art, and the witchcraft which was in the land. Thus
there began to be a mourning and a lamentation in all
the land, because of these things; and more especially
among the people of NephL And it came to pass
that when I, Mormon, saw their lamentation, and
their mourning, and their sorrow before the Lord, my
heart did begin to rejoice within me, knowing the
mercies and tne long suffering of the Lord, therefore
supposing that he would be merciful unto them, that
they would again become a righteous people. But
behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing waa
not auto repentance, because of the goodness of God,
bat it was rather the sorrowingof the damned, because
the Lord would not always suffer them to take happi-.
650 BOOK OF MOHMOIT.
ness in sin. And they did not come unto Jesus with
broken hearts and contrite spirits, but they did curse
God, and wish to die. Nevertheless they would strug­
gle with the sword for their lives. And it came lo
pass that my sorrow did return unto me again, and I
saw that the day of grace was past with them, both
temporally and spiritually, for I saw thoudonds of
them hewn down in open rebellion against their God
and heaped up as dung upon the face of the land. And
thus three hundred and forty and four years had pass­
ed away.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and
forty and fifth year, the Nephites did begin to flee be­
fore the Lamamtes, and they were pursued until they
came even to the land of Jashon, before it was possi­
ble to stop them in their retreat. And now the city
of Jashon was near the land where Ammaron had de­
posited the records unto the Lord, that they might
not be destroyed. And behold I had gone according
to the word of Ammaron, and taken the plates ofNe-
phi, and did make a record according to the words of
Ammaron. And upon the plates of Nephi I did make
ft full account of all the wickedness and abominations;
but upon these plates I did forbear to make a full ac­
count of their Wickedness and abominations, for be­
hold, a continual scene of wickedness and abomina­
tions has been before mine eyes ever since I have been
sufficient to behold the ways of man. And wo is me,
because oftheir wickedness, for my heart hasbeen fill­
ed with sorrow because of their wickedness, all my
days; nevertheless, 1 know that I shall be lifted up at
the last day.
And it came to pass that in this year the people of
Nepbi again were bunted and driven. And it came to
pass that we were driven forth until we had come
northward to the land which was called Shem. And
it came to pass that we did fortify the city of Shem,
and we did gather in our people as much as it were
possible, that perhaps we might save them from des­
truction. And it came to pass in the three hundred
and forty and sixth year, they began to come upon us
again. And it came to pass that I did speak unto my
people, and did urge them with great energy, that they
would stand boldlybefore>theLamanites, and fight for
their wives, and their children, and their houses and
their homes. &And my words didarouse them some­
what to vigor, ias'omueh that they did not flee from
BOOS OB M0KM05. 551
before the Lamanites, but did stand with bold-
sees against them. And it came to pass that we did
contend with an army of thirty thousand, against an
army of fifty thousand. And it came to pass that we
did stand before them with such firmness, that they
did flee from before us. And it came to pass that
when they had fled, we did pursue them with our ar­
mies, and did meet them again, and did beat them;
nevertheless the strength of the Lord was not with us;
yea, we were left to ourselves, that the spirit of the
Lord did not abide in us; therefore we had become
weak, like unto our brethren. And my heart did sor­
row because of this the great calamity of my people;
because of their wickedness and their abominations.—
r
Bat behold we did go forth against the Lamanites, and
the robbers of Gaddianton, until we had again taken
possession of tire lands of our inheritance. And the
three hundred and forty and ninth year had passed
away. And in the three hundred and fiftieth year, we
made a treaty with the Lamanites and the robbers of
Gaddianton, in which we did get the lands of our in­
heritance divided. And the Lamanites did give un­
to us the laud northward; yea, even to the narrow
passage which led into the land southward. And we
did give unto the Lamanites all the land southward.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not
come to battle again until ten years more had passed
away. And behold, 1 had employed my people, the
Nephites, in preparing their lauds and their arms
against the time of battle. And it came to pass that
the Lord did say unto me, cry unto this people repent
ye, and come uuto rue and be ye baptised, and build
up again my church, and ye snail be spared. And 1
did cry unto this people, but it was in rain, and they
did not realize that it was the Lord that had spared
them, and granted unto them a chance for repentance.
And behold they did harden their hearts against the
Lord their God. Aud it came to pass that after this
tenth year had passed away, making, in the whole,
three hundred and sixty years from the coming of
Christ, the king of the Lamanites sent an epistle unto
me, which gave unto me to know that they were pre­
paring to come again to battle against us. And it
came to pass that I did cause my people that they
should gather themselves together at the land Desola­
tion, to a city which was in the borders, by the narrow
Paw which lead into the land southward. And there
5 5 2 BOOK o r MORXOir.
we did place our armies, that we might stop the ar­
mies of the Laraanites, that they might not get pos­
session of any of our lands; therefore we did fortify
against them with all our force.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and
sixty and first year, the Lamanites did come down to
the city of Desolation to battle, against us; And it
came to pass that in that year, we did beat them, in-
somuch that they did return to their own lands again.
And in the three hundred and sixty and second year,
they did come down again to battle. And we did beat
them again, and did slay a great number of them, and
their dead were cast into the sea. And now because
of this great tiling whicli my people, the Nephiles,
had done, they began to boast in their own strength,
and began to swear before the heavens, that they
would avenge themselves of the blood of their brethren
who had been slain by their enemies. And they did
swear by the heavens, and also by the throne of God,
that they would go up to battle against their enemies,
and would cut them off from the face of the land.
And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly re­
fuse from this time forth, to be a commander and &
leader of this people, because of their wickedness and
abomination. Behold, 1 had led them, notwithstand­
ing their wickedness, I had lead them many times to
battle, and had loved them, according to the love of
God which was in me, with all my heart; and my soul
had been poured out in prayer unto my God all the
day long, for them; nevertheless, it was without faith,
because of the hardness of their hearts. And thrice
have I delivered them out of the hands of their ene­
mies, and they have repented not of their sins. And
when they had sworn by all that had been forbidden
them, by our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that they
would go np. unto their enemies to battle, and avenge
themselves of the blood of their brethren, behold, the
voice of the Lord came'Unto me, saying, vengeance is
mine, and I will repay; and because this people re­
peated not after I had delivered them, behold, they
shall be cut off from the face of the earth. And it
came to pass that I utterly refused to go up against
mine enemies; and J did even as the Lord had com­
manded me; and I did stand as an idle witness to
manifest unto the world the things which I saw and
heard, according to the manifestations of the spirit
which had testified1of things to come. Therefore I
BOOS OS MORMON.
writ* unto 700, Gentiles, and also unto you, house of
Israel, when the work shall commence, that ye shall
beabout to prepare to return to the land of your in­
heritance; yea, behold, I write nnto all the ends of tb*
earth; yea, unto you, twelre tribes of Israel, who,
shall bejudged according to your works, by the twelre
whom Jesus chose to be his disciples in the land of
Jerusalem. And i write also unto the remnant of this
people, who shall also be judged by the twelve whom
Jesus chose in this land;.., and they shall be judged by
the other twelve whom 'Jesus chose in the land of
Jerusalem. And these things do the spirit manifest
unto met therefore I write unto you all. And for this
cause 1 write unto you, that ye may know that ye
must all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, yea,
every soul who belongs to the whole human family of
Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works,
whether they be good or evil; and also that ye may be­
lieve the gospel of Jesus Christ, which ye shall have
among you; and also that the Jews, the covenant peo­
ple of the Lord, shall have other witness besides him
whom they saw and heard, that Jesus whom they
slew, was the very Christ, and the very God; and I
would that 1 could persuade all ye ends of the earth
to repent and prepare to stand before the judgment
•eat of Christ
SGt
CHAPTER II.
Am
d now it came to pass that in the three hundred
and sixty and third year, the Nepliites did go up with
their armies to battle against the Lamanites, out of
the land Desolation. And it came to pass that the
armies of the Nephites were driven back again to the
land of Desolation. And while they were yet weary,
a fresh army of the Lamantte3 did come upon them;
and they had a sore battle, insomuch that the Laroan-
itea did take possession of the city Desolation, and
did slay many of the Nephites, and did take many
K
isoners; and the remainder did flee and join the in-
bitaate of the city Teancum. Now the cilyTean-
cum lay in theyborders by the seashore; and it was
b o o k - k o i u s o s .
■
<•
also near the cityDeeola’tion. And it was because the
armies of the Nephites went up>unto the Lamunites,
that they began’to be Smitten: for were it not for-that,
tile Lamanites could have had no power over them.
But behold, -the judgments of God wiU overtake the
wicked; and iti® by the wicked, that the wicked are
punished; ‘for it is the wicked that stir up the hearts
ofthe children of tmfn unto bloodshed. And it came
to pass that* the Lamanites did niuke preparations to
coine against the city Teancuin. .
And it came to pass in the three hundred and sixty
and fourth year, the Lamanitea did come against the
city Tcancum, that they might take possession of the
city'TeanCurn also. And it came to pass that they
were repulsed and dtiven back by the Nephites. And
when the Nep'iites saw that they had driven the La-
maniies, they did again boost of their strength; and
they went forth in their own might, and took posses­
sion again of the city Desolation. And now ail these
things had been done, and there had been thousands
slain on both sides, both the Nephites and the Laman-
ites. And it came to pass that the three hundred and
sixty and sixth year had passed a\vav, and the Laman-
ites came again upon lire Ncpiiites to battle; and yet
the Nephites repented not of the evil they had done,
hut persisted in their wickedness continually. And it
is impossible for the tongue to describe, of for man to
write a perfect description of the horrible scene ofthe
blood and carnage which was among the people; both
of the Nephites and of the Lamnnites; and every heart
was hardened, so that they delighted in tiie shedding
of blood continually. And 'there never had been so
great wickedness among all the children of Lehi, nor
even among all the hotrse of Israel, according to the
words of the Lord, as were among thiis people.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did lake
possession of the City Desolation, and this because
their number did exceed the number of the Nephites.
And they did also march forward against the city Te-
ancum, and did drive the inhabitants forth out of her,
and did take many prisoners both women and children,
and did offer them up as sacrifices unto their idol gods.
And it came to pass that in the- three hundred and
sixty and seventh year, the Nephites being angry be­
cause the Lamanites had sacrificed their women and
iiitir Cliiidfen, that they did go'against the Latnaiutes
with exceeding great anger, insomuch that they did
554
BOOS O* *ORMOI». 6 5 5
beat agim tbe Lamanites, and drive them out of their
laoda; and the Lamanites did not come again against
(he Nephites, until the three hundred and seventy and
fifth year. And in this year they did come down
against thbNephites with all their powers; and they
were not numbered because of the greatness of their
somber. And from this time forth did the Nephites
gain no power over the Lamanites, but began to be
swept off by them even as-a dew before the sun. And
it came to pass that the Lamanites did come down
against the city Desolation; and there was an exceed­
ing sore battle fought in the land Desolation, in the
which they did beat the Nephites. And they fled
again from before them, and they came to the city
Boax; and there they did stand against the Lamanites
wit)i exceeding boldness, insomuch that the Lamanites
did not beat them until they hadcome again the second
lime. And when they had come the second time, the
Nephites were driven and slaughtered with an exceed­
ing great slaughter; their women ami their children
were again sacrificed unto idols. And it came to pass
that the Nephitdb did again flee from before them,
taking all the inhabitants with them, both in towns
and villages. And now I, Mormon, seeing that the
Lamanites were about to overthrow the land, there­
fore I’did go to the hill Shim, and did take up all the
records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that 1 did go forth among the
Nephilea, and did repent of the oath which 1 had made,
that I would no more assist them} and they gave me
command again of their armies; for they looked upon
me as though?! could deliver them from their aiflic-
tioiis. But behold, I was without hopes, for I knew
the judgments of the Lord which should come upon
them; ifor tlipy repented not of their iniquities, but did
struggle for their lives, without calling upon that Be­
ing who'created them. And it came to pass that the
Lamanites-did come against us os we had fled fa the
eity of JordaVt; but behold, they were driven back that
they?did not take the- city at that time. And it came
to pass ,that they came against us again, and we did
maintain the city. And there were also other cities
which were maintained by the Nephites, which strong
holds did dot them oft' that they could not get into the
country which laybotbre its to destroy the inhabitants
etf 'odf land. iBut it came to pass that whatsoever
hrifilsnveh&d pasted by, and the inhabitants thereof
566
were not gathered in, were destroyed by Uie Lam&n-
ites, and their towns, and villages, and cities were
burned with fife; and thus the three hundred and
seventy and nine years passed away.
And,, it came to pass that in the three hundred and
eightieth year, the Lamanites did come again against
ug to battle, and we did aland against them boldly;
hut it was all iu vam, for so great were their numbers
that they did tread the people of the Nephites under
their feet. And it came to pass that we did again lake
to flight, and those whose flight was swifter than tbe
Lamanites did escape, and those whose flight did not
exceed the Lamanites, were swept down and destroy­
ed. And now behold, I, Mormon, do not desire lo
harrow up the souls of men in casting before them
such an awful scene of blood and carnage as was laid
before mine eyes, but I knowing that these things
must surely be made known, and that all things which
are hid must be revealed upon the house tops, and al­
so that a knowledge of these things must come unto
the remnant of these people, and a^so unto the Gen­
tiles, which the Lord hath said should scatter this peo­
ple, and this people should be counted as nought
among them, therefore I write a small abridgement,
daring not to give a full account of the things which I
have seen, because of the commandment which I have
received, and also that ye might not have too great
sorrow because of the wickedness of this people. And
now behold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to
the Gentiles, who have care for the house of Israel,
that realize and know from whence their blessings
come. For I know that such will sorrow for the ca­
lamity of the house of Israel; yea, they will sorrow for
the destruction of this people; they will sorrow that
this people had not repented, that they might have
been clasped in tbe arms of Jesus. Now these things
are written unto the remnant of the house of Jacob!
and they are written after this, manner, because it is
known of God that wickedness will not bring them
forth unto them; and they are to be hid up unto the
Lord, that they may come forth in his own due time.
And this is the commandment which 1 have received;
. and behold they shall come forth according to the
l commandment of the Lord, when he shall see fit, in
, his wisdom. And behold they shall go unto the un­
believing of the Jews; and for this intent shall they
go; that they maybe persuaded that Jesus is the
BOOK OJT MOBMOff.
i
BOOH OF MOBXOH. 557
Christ, the>Sonof the living God; that the Father
may bring about, through his most beloved, his great
and eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the
bouse of Israel, to the land of their inheritance, which
the Lord their God hath given them, unto the fulfilling
of his covenant, and also that the seed of this people
may more fully believe his gospel,"which shall go forth
unto them from the Gentiles; for this people shall be
scattered, and shall becomeadark, a filthy, andaloath-
some people, beyond the description of that which ever
hath been amongst us; yea, even that which hath
been among the Lamanites; and this because of their
unbelief and idolatry. For behold, the spirit of the
Lord hath already ceased to strive with their lathers,
and they are without Christ and God in the world,
and they are driven about as chaff before the wind.
They were once a delightsome people, and they had
Christ for their Shepherd; yea, they were led even by
God, the Father. But now, behold they are led about
by eatan, even as chaff is driven before the wind, or as
a vessel is tossed about upon the waves, without sail
or anchor, or without any thing wherewith to steer
her; and even as she is, soare they. And behold, the
Lord hath reserved their blessings, which they might
bare received in the land, for the Gentiles, who shall
possess the land. But behold, it shall come to pass
that they shall be driven and scattered by the Gentiles;
and after they have been driven and scattered by tha
Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord remember the
Covenant which he made unto Abraham, and unto all
the house of Israel. And also the Lord will remem­
ber the prayers of the righteous, which have been put
up unto him for them. And then, Oye Gentiles, how
can ye stand before the power of God, except ye shall
tepent and turn from your evil ways! Know ye not
that ye are in the hands of God? Know ye not that,
he hath all power, and at his great command the earth
•hall be rolled together as a scroll'? Therefore repent
ye, and humble yourselves before him, lest he shall
come out in justice against you; lest a remnant of tha
seed of Jacob shall go forth among you as a lion, and
lev you in pieces, and there is none to deliver.
BOOK o r KORKOR.
5& 8
Ch a p t e r ii i .
" V
Akd now I finish my record concerning the destruc­
tion of my peopl;, the Nephites. And it came to pass
that we did march forth before the Lamanites. And
I Mormon, wrote an epistle unto the king of the La-
mantles, and desired of him that he would grant unto
tt3 that we might gather together our people unto the
land ofCumorah, by a hill which was called Cumorah,
and there we would give them battle. And it came to
pass that the king of the Lamanites did grant unto me
the thing which I desired. And it came to pass that
we did inarch forth to the land of Cumorah, and we
did pitch our tents round about the hill Cumorah; and
it was in a land of many waters, rivers and fountains;
and here we had hope to gain advantage over the La*
manites. And when three hundred and eighty and
four years had passed away, we had gathered in all the
remainder of our people unto the land Cumorah.
And it came to pass that when we had gathered in
all our people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold 1,
Mormon, began to be old; and knowing it to be the
last struggle of my people, and having been command­
ed of the Lord that 1 should not suffer that the records
which had been handed down by our fathers, which
were sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites,
(for the Lamanites would destroy them,) therefore I
made this record out of the plate* of Nephi, and hidup
in the hill Cumorah, all the records which had been
entrusted to me by the hand of tlie Lord, save it were
these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni.
And it came to pass that my people, with their wives
and their children, did now behold the armies of the
Lamanites marching towards them; and with that aw­
ful fear of death which fills the breasts of all the wick­
ed, did they await to receive them. And it came to
pass that they come to battle against us, and every
soul was filled with terror, because of the greatness of
their numbers. And it came to pass that,they did fall
upon my people with the sword, and with the bow,
and with the arrow, and with.the axe, and with all
manner of iVeapons pf war. And it came to pass that
my men were hewn down, yea, even my ten thousand
who were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst;
and they passed by me that they did not put an end to
my life. And when they had gone through and hewn
down all my people save it were twenty and four of
BOOK o r MORMON. 559
O
B
, (among whom wa* my son Moroni,) and we having
Mmved the dead of oar people, did behold on the
morrow, when the L&nmnites had returned unto their
camps, from the top of the hill CumoraJi, the ten
thousand of my people who were hewn down, being
Jed in the front by me; and we also beheld the ten
thousand of my people who were led by my son Moro­
ni. And behold, the ten thousand of Gidgiddonah
had fillten, and he also in the midst; and Laraah bad
ftllen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had fallen
with his ten thousand; and Limiiah had fallen with
bie ten thou*and; and Joneam had fallen will) his ten
thousand; and Cameniliah, and Moronihoh, and Anti-
onunt, and Shibiom, and Shem, and Josh, had fallen
with their ten thousand each.
And it came to pass that there were ten more who
did fall l»y the sword, with their ten thousand each:
yea, even all my people, save it were those twenty and
fear who were with me, and also a few who had es­
caped into the south countries, and a few who had dis­
sented over unto the Lamanites, had fallen, and their
flesh, and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the
earth, being left by the handsof those who slew them,
to moulder upon the land, and to crumble and to re­
turn to their mother earth. And my soul was rent
with anguish, because of the slain of/my people, and
I cried, O ye fair ones, how could ye have departed
from the ways of the Lord! O ye fair ones, how could
ye hare rejected that Jesus, who stood with open
arms to receive youI Behold, if ye had not done this,
ye would not have fallen. Hut behold, ye are fallen,
and I mourn your loss. O ye fair sons and daughters,
ye fathers and mothers, ye husbands and wives, ye
fair ones, how is it that yc could have fallenI But
behold, ye are gone, and my sorrows cannot bring
your return; and the day soon cometh that your mor­
tal must put on immortality, and these bodies which
are now.mouldering in corruption, must soon become
incorruptible bodies; and then ye must stand before
the judgment seat of Christ, to be judged according to
your works; and ifit so be that ye ore righteous, then
are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone before
you. O that ye had repented before this greatdestruc­
tion bad come upon you. But behold, yc are gone,
and the Bather, yea, the eternal Father of lieoven,
knowelh your state; and be doeth with you according
to his justice and mercy.
560 BCOK OF MORMON*
And now behold, I would apeak somewhat unto the
remnant of this peoplewho are spared, if it so be that
God may give unto them my words, that they may
know of the things of their fathers; yea, I speak unto
you, ye remnant of the house of Israel; and these are
Cite words which 1 apeak, know ye that ye are of the
house of Israel. Know ye that ye must come unto re­
pentance, or ye cannot be saved. Know ye that ye
must lay down your weapons of war, and delight no
more in the shedding of blood, and take them not
again, save it be that God shall command you. Know
ye that ye must come to the knowledge of your fathers,
and repent of all your sins and iniquities, and believe
in Jesus Christ, that he is the Sort of God, and that
he was slain by the Jews, and by the power of the
Father he hath risen again, whereby he hath gained
the victory over the grave; and also in him is the
sting of death swallowed up. And he bringeth to pass
the resurrection of the dead, whereby man must b«
raised to stand beforehisjudgment seat. And he hath
brought to pass the redemption of the world, whereby
he that is found guiltless before him at the judgment
day, hath it given unto him to dwell in the presence
of God in iiis kingdom, to sing ceaseless praises with
the choirs above, unto the Father, and unto the Son,
and unto the Holy Ghost which are one God, in a
state of happiness which hath no end. Therefore re­
pent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay
hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set be­
fore you, not only in this record, but also in the re­
cord which shall come unto the Gentiles from the
Jews, which record shall come from the Gentiles unto
you. For behold, this is written for the intent that ye
may believe that; and if ye believe that, ye will believe
this also; and ifye believe this, ye will know concern­
ing your fathers, and also the !marvelous works which
were wrought by the power of God among them; and
ye will also know that ye are a remnant of thq seed of
Jacob; therefore ye are numbered among the people
of the first eoven&nt; and if it so be that ye believe in
Christ, and are baptized, first with water, then with
fire and with the Holy Ghost, following the example
of our Saviour according to that which he hath com­
manded us,I t shall be well with you in the day of
judgment Amen. «. -ih.
BOOK o r MORMOK. 5 61
CHAPTER IV.
Behold I, Moroni, do finish the record of my Father
Mormon. Behold, I hare but few things to write,
which things I hare been commanded of my father.
And now it came to pass that alter the great and tre­
mendous battle at Cumorah, behold, the Nephites who
bad escaped into the country southward, were hunted
by the Lamanites, until they were all destroyed; and
my father also was killed by them; and f, eren remain
alone to write the sad tale of the destruction of my
people. But behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the
commandment of my father. And whether they will
slay me, I know not; therefore I will write and hide
op the records in the earth, and whither I go it matler-
etb not. Behold, my father hath made this record,
and he bath wriLten the intent thereof. And behold,
1would write it also, if I hod room upon the plates;
but I have not; and ore I have none, for I am alone;
mv father hath been slain in battle, and all my kins­
folks, and 1 have not friends nor whither to go; and
how long tiie Lord will suffer that I may live, 1 know
not. Behold, four hundred years have passed away
since the coming of our Lord and Saviour. And be­
hold, the Lamanites have hunted my people, the Ne-
phites, down fromcity to city, and from place to place,
even until they are no more; and great has been their
foil; yea, great and marvelous is the destruction of
my people, the Nephites. And behold, it is the hand
ofthe Lord which hath done it. And behold also, the
Lamanites are at war one with another; and the whole
foce of this land is one continual round of murder and
bloodshed: and no one bnoweth the end of the war.
And now behold, 1 $ay no more concerning them, for
there are none, save it be the Lamanites and robbers,
that do exist upon the face of the land; and there are
none that do know the true God, save it be the disci­
plesof Jesus, who did tarry in the land until the wick­
ednessof the people was so great, that the Lord would
not suffer them to remain with the people; and wheth­
er they be upon the face of the land, no man knoweth.
But behold, my father and I have seen them, and they
have ministered unto us. And whoBO received) this
rooord, and shall not condemn it because of the imper­
fections which are in it, thesame shall know of greater
things than these. Behold, I aru Moroni; and were
impossible, lyvould moke all things known unto you.
562 BOOK o r MOKMOlt.
Behold, I make an end of speaking concerning this
people. I am the son of Mormon, and my father was
a descendant of Nephi; and I am the same who hideth
up this record unto the Lord; the plates thereof areof
no worth, because of the fcbmmandment of the Lord.
For he truly saith, that no one elmll have them to get
gain; but the record thereof is of great worth; and
whoso shall bring it to light, him will the Lord bless.
For none can hive power to bring it to light, save it
be given hitmof God; for God will that it shall be
done with an eye single’ to his glory, or the welfare
of the ancient and long dispersed covenant people of
the Lord. And blessed be him that shall bring this
thing to light; for it shall be brought out of darkness
unto light, according to the word of God; yea, it shall
be brought out of the earth, and it shall'shine forth
out of darkness, and come unto the knowledge ofthe
people; and it shall be done by the power of God; and
if tilera be faults, they be the faults of a man. Bat
behold, we know no fault. Nevertheless, God know-
eth all things; therefore he that eondemneth, let him
be awEire lest he shall be in danger of hell fire. And
he that sayeth, shew unto me, or ye shall be smitten,
let him beware lest he comrnandetn that which is for­
bidden of the Lord. For behold, the same that judg-
eth rashly, shall be judged rashly again; for according
to his works shall his wages be; therefore, he that
smiteth, shall be smitten again of the Lord. Behold
what the scripture says man shall not smite, neither
shall he judge; for judgment is mine, saith the Lord;
and vengeance is mine also, and I will repay. And
he that shall brhathe out wrath and strifes against the
work of the Lord, and against the covenant people of
the Lord; Who are the house of Israel, and shall say,
we will‘destroy the work of the Lord, and the Lord
will not remember his covenant which he hath made
unto the house of Israel, the same is in danger to be
hewn down and cast into the fire; for the eternal pur­
poses of the Lord shall roll on, until all his promises
shall be fulfilled. Search the prop'iecies of Isaiah.—
Behold, I cannot write them. Yea, behold I say unto
you, that those saints who have gone before me, who
have possessedHthis land, shall cry; yea, even from
the dust will they cry unto the Lord; nnd as the Lori
livelh,he will remember the covenant which hehath
made with them. "And he knoweth their prayers, that
they were in behalf bf!their brethren. And be know-
book or MOJUfoir, 563
9th their faith; for in his name could they remove
mountains; and in his name could they cause the
earth to shake; and by the power of his word did they
cause prisons to tumble to the earth; yea, even the
fiery furnace could not barm them; neither wild
beasts, nor poisonous serpents, because of the power
of his word. And behold, their prayers were also ih
behalf of him that the Lord should suffer to brine
these things forth. And no one need say, they shall
not come, for they surely shall, for the Lord hath
spoken it; for out of the earth shall they come, by the
band of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it shall
come in a day when it shall be said that miracles
ire done away; and it shall come even as if one should
rpeak from the dead. And it shall come in a day
when the blood of saints shall cry unto the Lord, be­
cause of secret combinations and the works of dark*
ness: yea, it shall come in a day when the power of
God shall be denied, and churches become defiled, and
till be lifted up in the pride of their hearts; yea, even
a day when leaders of churches, and teachers, in
the pride of their hearts, even to the envying of them
who belong to their churches; yea, it shall come in a
day when there shall be heard of fires, and tempests,
and vapors of smoke in foreign lands; and there shall
also be heard of wars, and rumors of wars, and earth*
quake* in diverse places; yea, it shall come in a day
when there shall be great pollutions upon the face of
the eaith; there shall be murders, and robbing, and
lying, and deceivings, and whoredoms, and all manner
of abominations; when there shall be many who will
say, do this, or do that, and it mattereth not, for the
Lord will uphold such at the last day. Hut wo unto
such; for they are in Ihe gall of bitterness, and in the
bonds of iniquity. Yen, it shall come in a day when
there shall be churches built op that shall say, come
tint®foe, and for your money yon shall be forgiven of
your sins. * O ye wicked and perverse, and stiffnecked
people, why have ye built Upchurches unto yourselves
to gain? Why hove ye transfigured the holy
weird of God, that ye might bring damnation upon
yoar souls? Behold, look ye unto the revelations of
Ood. Por behold, the time cometh at that day when
oihthcse ^things must be fulfilled. Behold, the Lord
Stth shewn unto me great and marvelous things corr-
corning' thaV which must shortly come at that day
Whemthese thing? shall come forth among you; B«-
564 BOOK o r MORMON.
bold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yel
ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath shewn you
unto me, and I know your doing; and I know that ye
do walk in the pride of your'hearts;* and there are
none, save a few only, who do<not lift themselves up
in,the pride of their hearts, unto the wearing of very
fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, and malice,
and persecutions, aud all "manner of iniquities; and
J
rour churches, yea, even every one, have become poi­
nted because of the pride of your hearts. For behold,
ye do love money, and your substances, and your line
apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than
ye love the poor and Uie needy, the sick and the af­
flicted. O ye pollutions, ye hypocrites, ye teachers,
who sell yourselves for that which will canker, why
have ye polluted the holy church of God! Why are
ye ashamed to take upon you the name of Christ!—
Why do you not think that greater is the value of an
endless happiness, than that misery which never dies,
because of the praise of the world. Why do ye adora
yourselves with that which hath no life, and yet sufitf
the hungry, and the needy, and the naked, and ths
sick, and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them
not! Yea, why do ye build up your secret abomina­
tions to get gain, and cause that widows should mourn
before the Lord, and also orphans to mourn before the
Lord; and also the blood of their fathers and their
husbands to cry unto the Lord from the ground, for
vengeance upon your heads! Behold, the sword of
vengeance hangeth over you; and the time soon com-
eth that he avengeth the blood of the saints upon yon,
Cor he will not suffer their ories any longer.
And now, 1 speak also concerning those who do not
believe in Christ, Behold, will ye believe in the day
of your visitation, behold, when the Lord shall come;
yea, even that great day when the earth shall be roll­
ed together as a scroll, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat; yea; in that great day when ye
shall be brought to stand before the Lamb of God,
then will ye say that there is no God! Then will ye
longer deny the Christ, or can ye behold the Lamb of
Goa! Do ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him
under a consciousness of your guilt! Do ye suppose
that ye could be happy to dwell with that holy being,
when your souls are racked with a consciousness of
guilt tnat ye have ever abused his Jaws! Behold I
say unto youj that ye would beinore miserable
BOOK o r HOBHQN. 565
dwell With a holy and just God, under a consciousness
of your filthiness before him, tiian ye would to dwell
with the damned souls in hell] For behold, when ye
shall be brought to see your nakedness before God,
and also the glory of God, and the holiness of Jesus
Christ, it will kindle aflame of unquenchable fire up­
on you. O then ye unbelieving, turn ye unto the
Lord; cry mightily unto the Father in the name of
Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless, pure,
fair and white, having been cleansed by the blood of
the Lamb, at that great and last day. And again I
•peak unto you, who deny the revelations of God, and
•ay that they are done away, that there are no revela­
tions, nor prophecies, nor gifts, nor healing, nor speak­
ing with tongues, and the interpretation of tongues.
Behold I say unto you, he that denieth these things,
knoweth not the gospel of Christ; yea, he has not
readthe scriptures; if so, he does not understand them,
fordo we not read that God is the same yesterday,
to-day, and forever; and in him there is no variable-
ins neither shadow ot changing. And now, if ye
bare imagined up unto yourselves a god who dothva-
17, and in him there is shadow of changing, then have
ye imagined up unto yourselves a god who is not a
God of miracles. But behold, i wilt shew unto you a
God of miracles, even the God of Abraham, and the
God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and it is that
■ante God who created the heavens and the earth, and
all things that in them are. Behold, he created Ad­
am; and by Adam came the fall ofman. And because
of the fall of man, came Jesus Christ, even the Fa­
ther and the Son; and because of Jesus Christ came
the redemption of man. And because of the redemp­
tion of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are
brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this
is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of
Christ bringelh to pass the resurrection, which bring-
eth to pass a redemption from an endless sleep, from
which sleep all men shall be awoke by the power of
God, when the trump shall sound; and they shall
come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand
before bis bar, being redeemed and loosed from this
eternal band of death, which death is a temporal death;
and then cometh the judgment of the Holy One upon
them; and then cometh ine time that he that is filthy
•hall be filthy still; and he that is righteous, shall be
righteous still; be that is happy, shall be happy still;
BOOK or MORHOIT.
and be that is unhappy, shall be unhappy still. And
now, O all ye that have imagined up unto yourselves
a god who can do no miracles, I would ask of you,
have all these things past, of which I have spoken?—
Has the end come yell Behold I say unto you, nay;
and God has not'ceased to be a God of miracles. Be­
hold, are not the things that God hath wrought, mar­
velous in our eyes? Yea, and who can comprehend
the marvelous works of God? Who-shall say that it
was not a miracle, that by his word the heaven and
the earth should be; and by the power of his word,
man was created of the dust of the earth; and by the
power of his word, hath miracks been wrought? And
who shall say that Jesus Christ did not do many migh­
ty miracles? And there were many mighty miracles
wrought by the hands of the apostles. And if there
were miracles wrought, then why has God ceased to
be a God of miracles, and yet be an unchangabfe be­
ing. And behold f say unto you, he cbangeth not; if
so, he would cease to be God; and he ceaseth ■
not to
be God, and is a God of miracles- And the reason
why he ceaseth to do miracles among the children of
men, is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and de­
part from the right way, and know not the GOd in
whom they should trust. Behold I say unto you,
that whoso believe,th in Christ, -doubting nothing,
whatsoever he shall' ask the Father in the name of
Christ it shall be granted him; and this promise isun­
to all, even unto the ends of the-earth. * For behold,
thus saith Jesus-Christ, the Son of God, unto his dis­
ciples who should tarry; yea, and also to all his disci­
ples, in the hearing of the multitude, go ye into all
the world, and preach the gospeklo every creature;
and he that believeth anil is baptized, shall be saved,
but he that believeth not, shall be damned. And these
signs shall follow them that believe, in my name shall
they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues
they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
deadly thing, it' shall not hurt them; they shall lay
hands on the sick, and they shall recover; and whoso­
ever slialf*believe in my name, doubting nothing, unto
him will I confirm all my words, even unto the ends
of the earth; Andnow behcldf who can stand against
the works of -the Lord? t -Who dan de’
dy his sayings?
Who will riBe up ‘against the 'almighty power of the
Lord?W ho will- despise the •workd-of■
the Lord!—
Who wiil despise-the ehiJd5ten;olfGhvi8t?d</Beholdi ah
566
BOOK OF MOKM03.
ye who are despisers of the works Of the Lord, for ye
shall JWdnder and perish. O then despise not,'and
wonder not, but hearken unto the words of the Lord,
and ask the Father in the name of Jesus for what
things soever ye shall stand in need. Doubt not, but
be believing, and begin agon times of old, and come
unto the Lord with ail your heart, and woik out your
own salvation with fear and trembling before him.—
Be wise in the days of your probation; strip yourselves^
of alj uncleanness; ask not, that ye may consume it
on your lusts, but ask with a iirnmess unshaken, that
ye will yield to no temptation, but that ye will serve
the true and living God. See that ye are not baptized
unworthily; gee that ye partake not of the sacrament
ot Christ unworthily; but see that ye do all things in
worthiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the
Son of the living God; and if ye do this, and endure
to the end, ye will in no wise be cast out. Behold, I
speak unto you as though I spake from the dead; for 1
know that ye shall hoar my words. Condemn me not
because of mine imperfection; neither my father, be*
cause of his imperfection: neither them who have
written before him, but rather give thanks unto God
that he hath made manifest unto yon our imperfec­
tions, that ye may learn to be more wise than we have
been.
vAnd now behold, we have written this record accor­
ding to our knowledge in the characters, which are
called among us the reformed Egyptian, being handed
down and altered by us, according to our manner of
speech. And if our plates had been sufficiently large,
W
e should have written in Hebrew; but the Hebrew
hath been altered by us also; and if we could have
written in Hebrew, behold, ye would have had no im­
perfection in our record. But the Lord knoweth the
things which we havewritten, and also that none oth­
er people knoweth our language, therefore ho hath
prepared means for the interpretation thereof. And
these things are written, that we may rid our garments
ofthe blood of our brethren who have dwindled in un­
belief. And behold, these things which we have desi­
red concerning our brethren, yea, even their restora­
tion to the knowledge of Christ, is according to the
prayers of all the saints who have dwelt in the land.
And may the Lord Jesus Christ grant that their pray­
ers may be.answered according to their faith; and may
God the Father remember the covenant which he hath
667
BOOK OF ETAEK.
made with the house of Israel; and may he bless theta
forever, through faith on the name of' Jesus Christ.—
Amen. *
" SC8
i
BOOK OF ETHER.
CHAPTER I.
And now I, Moroni, proceed to give an account of
those ancient inhabitants who were destroyed by the
hand of the Lord upon the face of this north country.
And 1 take mine account from the twenty and four
plates which were found by the people ofLimhi, which
is called the book of Ether. And as I suppose that
the first part of this record, which speaks concerning
the creation of the world, and also of Adam, and an
account from that time even to the great tower, and
whatsoever things transpired among the children of
men until that time, is had among the Jews, therefore
I do not write those things which transpired from the
days of Adam until that time; but they are had upon
the plates; and whoso findelh them, the same will
have power that he may get the full account. But be­
hold, I give not the full account, but a part of the ao-
count I give, from the tower down until they were
destroyed. And on this wise do I give the account—
He that wrote this record was Ether, and he was a
descendant of Coriantor; Coriantor was the son of
Moron; and Moron was the sonofEthem; and Ethem
was the son of Altai); and Allah was the son of Seth;
and Seth was the son of Shiblon; and Shiblon was the
Bon of Com; and Com was the son of Coriantum; and
Coriantum was the son ,of Amnigaddah; -and Amnig-
add&h was the son of Aaron; and Aaron was a descend­
ant of Heth, who was the son of Hearthomj and Hear-
thom was the son of Lib; and Libwas the son of Kish;
and Ktsh was the Son of Corura; and Corum was the
son of Levi; and Levi was the son of Kim; and Kim
was the son of Morianton; and Morianton was a de­
scendant of Riplainsh; anttRiplakish ' was the son of
Shez; and Sbez was, the son of Heth;, and Heth was
the son of Cora;tand.Com was the son of Coriantum;
and Coriantum was the son of Emer; and Emer we*
BOOK OF ETH ER. 569
the son of Omer; and Omer was tlie son of Shule; and
Shule was the son of Kib; and Kib was the son of
Orihah, who was the son of Jared; which Jared came
forth with his brother and their families, with some
others and their families, from the great tower, at the
time the Lord confounded the language of the people,
and swear in his wrath that they should be scattered
upon all the face of the earth; and according to the
word of.the Lord the people were scattered. And the
brother of Jared, being a large and a mighty man, and
being a man highly favored of the Lord; for Jared his
brother said unto him, cry unto the Lord, that he will
not confound us that we may not understand our words.
And it came to pass that the brother of(Jared did cry
unto the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon Ja­
red; therefore he did not confound the language of Ja­
red; and Jared and his brother were not confounded.
Then Jared said unto his brother, cry again unto the
Lord, and it may be that lie will turn away his anger
from them wno are our friends, that he confound not
their language. And it came to puss that the brother
of Jared did cry unto the Lord, and the Lord had com­
passion upon their friends, and their families also, that
they were not confounded. And it came to pass that
Jared spake again unto his brother, saying, go and in­
quire of the Lord whether he will drive us out of'the
land, and if he will drive us out of the land,
ery unto him whither we shall go. And who
knowelh hut the Lord will carry ns forth into a land
which is choice above all the earth. And if it so be,
let us be faithful unto the Lord, that we may receive
it for our inheritance.
« And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did
cry unto the Lord according to that which had been
spoken by the mouth of Jared. And it came to pass
that the Lord did hear the brother of Jared, and had
compassion upon him, and said unto him, go to and
gather together thy flocks, both male and female, of
every kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every
kind, and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and
hiB family; and also thy friends and their families, and
the friends of Jared and their families. And when
thou hast done this, thou shall go at the head of them
down into the valley, which is northward. And them
will I meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land
which is choice above all the land of the earth. And
there will I bless thee and thy seed, and raise np unto
a 1%
670 BOOK OF KTHKR.
me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and
they who shall go with thee, a great nation^ And
there shall be none greater than the nation which I
will raise up unto me of thy seed, upon all the face of
the earth. And thus I will do unto thee because this
long lime ye have cried unto me.
And it came to pass that Jared, and hrs brother, and
their families, and also the friends of Jared and his
brother, and their families, went down into the valley
which was northward, (and the name of the valley
was Nimrod, being called after the mighty hunter,)
with their flocks which they had gathered together,
male and female, of every kind. And they did also
lay snares and catch fowls of the air, and they did also
prepare a vessel, in which they did carry with them
the fish of the waters; and they did also carry with
them deseret, which, by interpretation, is a honey bee;
and thus they did carry with them swarms of bees,
and all manner of that which was upon the face of the
land, seeds of every kind. And it came to pass that
when they had come down into the valiey of Nimrod,
the Lord came down and talked with the brother of
Jared; and he was in a cloud, and the brother of Ja­
red saw him not. And it came to pass that the Lord
commanded them that they should go forth into the
wilderness, yea, into that quarter where tiiere never
had man been. And it came to pass that the Lord did
go before them, and did talk with them as he stood in
a cloud, and gave directions whither they should travel.
And it came to pass that they did travel in the wilder­
ness, and did build barges, in which they did cross ma­
ny waters, being directed continually by the hand of
the Lord. And the Lord would not suffer that they
should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he
would that they should come forth even unto the land
of promise, which was choice above all other lands
which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous peo­
ple; and he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother
of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of prom­
ise, from that time henceforth and forever, should
serve him, the true and only God, or they should be
swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come
upon them. And now we can behold the decrees of
God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise,
and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall-' serve
God, or they shall be swept offwhen the fulness of his
wrath shall come upon them! - And the ihlness of his
BOOK O F ETHER. 67i
wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in
iniquity; for behold, this is a land which is choice
above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess
it shall serve God, or shall be swept off; for it is the
everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the ful­
ness of iniquity among the children of the land, that
they are swept off. And this cometh unto you, O ye
Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God, that
ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities unt
til the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the
fillness of the wrath of God upon you, as the inhabit­
ants of the land hath hitherto done. Behold, this is a
choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it,
shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and
from all other nations under heaven, if they will but
serve tire God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who
hath been manifested by the things which we have
written. And now I proceed with my record; for be­
hold it came to pass that the Lord did bring Jared and
his brethren forth even to that great sea which divideth
the lands. And as they came to the sea, they pitched
their tents; and they called the name of the place Mo-
riancumer; and they dwelt in tents: and dwelt in
tents upon the seashore for the space of four years.—
And it came to pass at the end of four years, that the
Lord came again unto the brother of Jared, and stood
in a cloud and talked with him. And for the space of
three hours did the Lord talk with the brother of Ja­
red, and chastened him because he remembered not to
call upon the name of the Lord. And the brother of
Jared repented of the evil which he had done, and did
call upon the name of the Lord for his brethren who
were with him. And the Lord said unto him, I will
forgive thee and thy brethren of their sins; but thou
shaltnot sin any more, for ye shall remember that my
spirit will not always strive with man; wherefore if
ye will sin until ye are fully ripe, ye shall be cut off
from the presence of the Lord. And these are my
thoughts upon the land which I shall give you for
your inheritance; for it shall be a land choice above all
other lands. And the Lord said, go to work and build,
after |the manner of barges which ye have hitherto
built. And it came to pass that the brother of Jared
did go to work, and also his brethren, and built barges
after the manner which they had built, according to
the instructions of the Lord. And they were small,
and they were light upon the water, even like unto the
578 BOO S O F; E TH E R .
lightness of a fowl upon the Water; and they were
built after a manner that they were exceeding tight,
even that they would hold water like unto a dish; and
the bottom thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the
aides*thereofwere light like unto a dish; and the ends
thereof were peaked; and the top thereof was tight
like unto a dish; and the length thereof was the length
of a tree; and the door thereof, when it was shut, was
tight like unto a dish. And it came to pass that the
brother of Jared cried unto the Lord, saying, O Lord
I have performed the work which thou hast command­
ed me, and 1 have made the barges according as thou
hast directed me. And behold, O Lord, in them there
is no light, whither shall we steer. And also we shall
perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save it is the
air which is in them; therefore we shall perish. And
the Lord said unto the brother of Jared, behold, thou
shall make a hole in the top thereof, and also in the
bottom thereof; and when thou shall suffer for air,
thou shall unstop the hole thereof, and receive air.—
And if it so be that the water come in upon thee, be­
hold, ye shall stop .the hole thereof, that ye may not
perish in the Hood. And it came to pass that the
brother of Jared did so, according as the Lord had
commanded. And he cried again unto the Lord, say­
ing, O Lord, behold 1 have done even as thou hast
commanded me; and I have prepared the vessels for
my people, and behold, there is no light in them. Be­
hold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this
great water in darkness? And the Lord said unto the
brother of Jared, what will ye that 1 should do that ya
may have light in your vessels? For behold, ye can­
not have windows, for they will be dashed in pieces;
neither shall ye take fire with you, for ye shall not go
by the light ot fire; for behold, ye shall be as a whale
in the midst of the sea; for the mountain.waves shall
dash upon you, Nevertheless, I will bring you up
again out of the depths of the sea; for the winds have
gone forth out of my mouth, and also the rains and
the floods have I Bent forth. And behold, I prepare
you against these things; for howbeit, ye cannot cross
this great deep, save f prepare yon against the waves
of the sea, an&the winds which have gone forth, and
the floods which.shall come. Therefore what will ye
that 1should prepare for you,, that ye may have light
whin ye are -swallowed up in' the depths of tbs
BOOK OF ETH ER. 573
And it came to pass that the brother of Jared, (now
the number of the vessels which had been prepared,
was eight,) went forth unto the mount, which they
called the mount Sheiem, because of its exceeding
height, and did moutten out of a rock sixteen small
stones; and they were white and clear, even as traus-
parent glass; and he did carry them in his hands upon
the lop of the mount, and cried again unto the'Lord,
saying, O Lord, thou hast said that we must be encom­
passed about by the floods. Now behold, O Lord, and
do not be angry with thy servant because of his weak­
ness befoie thee; for we know that thou art holy, and
dwellest in the heavens; and that we are unworthy
before thee; because of the fall, our natures have be­
come evil continually; nevertheless, O Lord, thou
hast given us a commandment that we must call upon
thee, that from thee we may receive according to our
desires. Behold, O Lord, thou hast smitten us because
ofour iniquity, and hath driven us forth, and for this
many years we have been in the wilderness; never­
theless, thou hast been merciful unto us. O Lord,
look upon me in pity, and turn away thine anger from
this thy people, and suffer not that they shall go forth
across this raging deep in darkness, but behold these
things which 1 have moulten out of the rock. And I
know, O iLord, that thou hast all power, and can do
whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit^of man; therefore
touch these stones, O Lord, with thy finger, and pre­
pare them that they may shine forth in darkness; and
they shall shine forth unto us in the vessels which we
have prepared, that we may have light white we shall
cross the sea. Behold, O Lord, thou canst do this.—
We know that thou art able to shew forth great pow­
er, which looks small unto the understanding of men.
And it came to- pass that when the brother of Jared
had said these words, behold, the Lord stretched forth
his hand and touched the stones, one by one, with his
finger; and the vail was taken from offthe eyes ofthe
brother of Jared, and he saw the finger of the Lord;
and it was as the finger of a man, like unto flesh and
blood; and the brother of Jared fell down before the
Lprd, for he was struck with fear. And the Lord saw
that the brother of Jared had fallen to the earth; and
the Lord said unto him, arise, why hast thou fallen?
And he saith unto the Lord, I saw the finger of the
Lord, and I feared lest he should smite me; for I knew
not that the Lord had flesh and blood. And thd Lord
674
said unto him, because of thy faith thou hast seen
that I shall take upon me flesh and blood; and never
has man come before me with such exceeding faith as
thou hast; for were it not so, ye could not have seen
my finger. Sawest thou more than this? And he
answered, nay, Lord, shew thyself unto me. And
the Lord said unto him, believest thou the words
which I shall speak? And he answered, yea, Lord, I
know that thou speakest the truth, for thou art a God
of truth, and canst not He. And wlien he had said
these words, behold, the Lord shewed himself unto
him, and said, because thou knowest these things, ye
are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought
back into my presence; therefore I shew myself unto
you. Behold, I am he who was prepared from the
foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold,
I am Jesus Christ. I am the Father and the Son.—
In me shall all mankind have light, and that eternally,
even they who shall believe on my name; and they
shall become my sons and my daughters. And never
have I shewed myself unto man whom I have created,
for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest
thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea,
even all men were created in the beginning, after mine
own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold,
is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after
the body of my spirit; and .even as I appear unto thee
to be in the spirit, will I appear unto my people in the
flesh. b
And now, as I Moroni, said I could not make a full
t account of these things which are written, therefore it
sufEcelh me to say, that Jesus shewed himself unto
this man in the spirit, even after the manner and in
the likeness of the same body, even as he shewed him­
self unto the Nephites; and he ministered unto him,
even as he ministered unto the Nephites; and all this,
that this man,knew that he was God, because of the
many great works which the Lord had shewed unto
him. And because of the knowledge of this man, he
could not be kept from beholding within the vail; and
he saw the finger of Jesus, which, when he saw, he
fell with fear; for he knew that it was the, finger
of the Lord;’! and he had faith no longer, for he
knew, nothing doubting; wherefore, having this per­
fect knowledge of Goq, he could not be kept from
■within the vail; therefore he saw Jesus; and he did
minister unto him. < J!
BOOK OF-gSTH*R.*:|#t
575
‘ And it came to pass that the Lord gaid unto the
brother of Jared, behold, thou shalt not suffer these
things which ye have seen and heard, to go forth unto
the world, until the time comelh that I shall glorify
my name in the flesh; wherefore, ye shall treasure up
the things which ye, have seen and heard, and shew it
to no man. And behold, when ye shall come unto
me, ye shall write them and shall seal them up, that
no one can interpret them; for ye shall write them in
a language that they cannot be read. And behold,
these two stones will I give unto thee, and ye shall
seal them up also, with the things which ye shall
write. For behold, the language which ye shall write,
t have confounded; wherelore I will cause in mine
own due time that these stones shall magnify to the
eyes of men, these things which ye shall write. And
when the Lord had said these words, he shewed unto
the brother of Jared all the inhabitants of the earth
which had been, and also all that Would be; and he
withheld them not from his sight, even unto the ends
ofthe earth; for he had said unto him in times before,
that if he would believe in him, that he could shew
unto him all things—it should be shewn unto him;
therefore the Lord could not withhold any thing from
him; for he knew that the Lord could shew him all
things. And the Lord said unto him, write these
things and seal them up, and I will shew them in mine
own due time unto the children of men.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him
that he should seal up the two stones which lie had
received, and shew them not, until the Lord should
shew them unto the children of men. And the Lord
commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of
the mount from the presence of the Lord, and write
the things which he had seen; and they were forbid­
den to come unto the children of men, until after that
he should belifted up upon the cross; and for this
cause did king Benjamin keep them, that they should
not come unto the world until after Christ shouldshew
himself unto his people. And after Christ truly had
shewed himself unto his people, he commanded that
they should be made manifest. And now, after that,
they have all dwindled in unbelief, and there is none,
save it be the Lainanites, and they have rejected the
gospel of Christ;' therefore I am commanded that I
Should hide them up again in the earth. Behold, I
have written upon these plates the very things which
y i BOOK o r 2T H ER .
576 BO
O
H OF £TH£R.
the brother of J&redsaw; apd there never was greater
things made manifest, than that which was made man­
ifest unto the brother of Jared; wherefore, the Lord
hath commanded me to write them; and I-have writ­
ten them. And ite commanded me that I should seal
them up; and he also hath commanded that J should
seal up the interpretation thereof; wherefore I have
sealed up the interpreters, according to the command­
ment of the Lord. For the Lord said unto me, they
shall not go forth unto the GenlileB until the day that
they shall repent of their iniquity, and become clean
before the Lord; and in that day that they shall exer­
cise faith in me, saith the Lord, even as the brother of
Jared did, that they , may become sanctified in me,
then will I manifest unto them the things which the
brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them
all my revelations* saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
the Father of the heavehe and of the earth, and all
things that in them are. And he that will contend
against the word ofthe Lord, Ift him be accursed; and
he that shall deny these things, let him be accursed;
fbf unto them will I shew no greater things, saith Je­
sus Christ, fori am he who speaketh; and at my com­
mand the-heavcns are opened and are shut; and atmy
word, the earth shall shake; and at my command, the
inhabitants thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire;
and he that believeth not my words, beleivelh not my
disciples; and if it so be that Tdo not speak, judge ye;
for ye shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the last
day. But he that believeth these things which I have
spoken, him will I visit with the manifestations ofmy
spirit; and hejsball know and bear record. For be­
cause ofmy spirit, he shall know that these things are
true; for it persuadeth men to do good; and whatsoev­
er thing persuadeth men to do good, is of me; for
good pometh of none, save it be of me. 1am the same
that leadeth men to all good; be that will notJbelieve
ray words, will not believe me, that I am; and ne that
Will not believe me, will not believe the Father .who
sent me. For behold, I am the Father, I am the light,
and the life, and the truth of the world. Come unto
me, O ye Gentiles, and I will shew unto you thegreat­
er things, the knowledge which is hid up because of
unbelief. Comp,unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it
shall be mademahifest unto you how great things the
Father hathvJdid up -fop yoju, froip the foundation of
tHe world; &hd it hath pot come unto you, because of
BOOS OF ETHER. 577
unbelief Behold, when ye shall rend that vail of un­
belief which doth cause you to remain in your awful
state of wickedness and hardness of heart, and blind­
ness of mind, then shall the great and marvelous things
which have been hid up from the foundation of the
world from you; yea, when ye shall call upon the Fa­
ther in my name, with a broken heart and a contrite
spirit, then shall ye know that* the Father hath remem­
bered the covenant which he made unto your fathers,
0 house of Israel; and then shall my revelations which
1 have caused to be written by my servant John, be
unfolded in the eyes of all the people. Remember,
when ye see these things, ye shall know that the time
is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very
deed; therefore, when ye shall receive this record, ye
may know that the work of the Father has commenced
upon all the face of the land. Therefore, repent all
ye ends of the earth, and come unto me, and believe
in my gospel, and-bebaptized in my name; for he that
believeth, and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that
believeth not, shall be damned; and signs shall follow
them that believe in my name. And blessed is he that
is found faithful (into my name, at the last day, tor he
shall be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom prepared for
him from the foundation of the world. And behold,
it is t that hath spoken it. Amen;
An» now I, Moroni, have written the words which
wer'e commanded me, according to my memory; and
I have told you the things which I have sealed up;
therefore touch them not, m order that ye may trans­
late; for that thing is forbidden you, except by and by
it shall be wisdom in God. And behold, ye may be
‘
privileged that ve may shew the plates unto those who
shall assist to* bring forth this work; and unto three
shall they be shewn by the power of God; wherefore
they shall know of a surety that these things are true.
And in the mouth of three witnesses shall these things
be established; and the testimony of three, and this
, work, in the which shall be shewn forth the power of
CHAPTER II.
T
578
God, and also his word, of which the Father, and the
Son, and the Holy Ghost bearelh,r,ecord; and all this
shall stand as a testimony against the world, at the
lust day. And If it So be that they repent and come
unto the Father in the name of Jesus, they shall be re­
ceived into tile kingdom of God. And now, if I have
no authority for these things, judgeye, for ye shall
know that I have authority when ye shall see me, and
we shall stand before God at the last day. Amen.
BOOK OF ETHER.
‘ CHAPTER ill.' . , ,
And now I, Moroni, proceed to give the record of
Jared and his brother. For it came to pass after the
Lord had prepared the stonea which the brother of Ja­
red had carried up into the inoimt,.the brother of Jared
came down out of the mount, and he did put forth the
stgnes into the vessels which were prepared, one in
each end thereof; and behold, they did give light unto
the vesselsthereof. And Urns the Lora caused stones
to shine, in darkness, to give light unto men, women
and children, that they might not crossslhe great wa­
ters in darkness.
And it came to pass that when they had prepared
all manner of food, that therehy they might subsist
upon the water, and also food for their flocks and herds,
and whatsoever beast, or animal, or fowl that they
should carry with them. And it came to pass that
when they had done all these things, they got aboard
of their vessels or barges, and set forth into the sea,
commending themselves unto the Lord their God.—
And it came to pass that the Lord God caused that
there should a furious wind blow upon the face of the
waters, towards the promised land; and thus they
wpre tossed upon the waves ofthe sea before the wind.
And it came to pass that they were many limes buried
in the depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves
which broke upon them, and also the great and terri­
ble tempests which1were caused by the fierceness of
the wind." ,
And it came to pass that when they .were buried in
the deep,, there was no water that could hurt them,
their vess^ls beihg tighilike unto a dish, and also they
BOOK OF ETHER. 579
were tight like unto the ark of Noah; therefore when
they were encompassed about by many waters, they
did cry unto the Lord and he did bring them forth
again’upon the tojp of the waters. And it came to
pass that the wind did never cease to blow towards
the promised land, while they were upon the waters;
and thus they were driven forth before the wind; and
they did sing praises unto the Lord; yea, the brother
of Jared did sing praises unto the Lord, and he did
thank and praise the Lord all the day long; and when
the night came; they did not cease to praise the Lord.
And thus they were driven forth; and no monster of
the sea could break them, neither whale that could
raar them; andtheydid have light continually, wheth­
er it was above the water or under the water. And
thus they were driven lorth, three hundred and forty
and four days upon the water; and they did land up­
on the shore of the promised land. And when they
had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land,
they bowed themselves down upon the iace of the
land, and did humble themselves before the Lord, and
did shed tears of joy before the Lord, because of the
multitude of his tender mercies over them.
And it came to pass that they went forth upon the
face of the land, and began to till the earth. And Ja­
red had four sons; and they were called Jaeom, and
Gilgah, and Mahab, and Orihah. And the brother of
Jared also begat sons and daughters. And the friends
of Jared and his brother, were in number about twen­
ty and two souls; and they also begat sons and daugh­
ters, before they came to the promised land; and there­
fore they began to be many. And they were taught
to walk humbly before the Lord; and they were also
taught from on high.
And it came to pass that they began to spread upon
the face of the land, and to multiply and to till the
earth; and they did wax strong in the land. And the
brother of Jared began to be old, and saw that he must
soon go down to the grave; wherefore he said unto
Jared, let us gather together our people that we may
number them, that we may know of them what they
will desire of us before we go down to our graves.—
And accordingly the people were gathered together.
Now the number of the sons and the daughters of the
brother of Jared were twenty and two souls; and the
numberof the sons and daughters of Jared were twelve,
he having four sons. And it came to pass that they
580 BOOK, OF S jrjfflR .
4id'num8er their people; andafter .that they had num­
bered then?, they did desire,of themtbe tbingswhich
they*would that they.should,do before they went.down
to their, graves.- And it came to pass that the people
desired of them that they should anoint one of their
sons to be. a king over them. And now behold, this
Was grievous unto them.. But the brother, of Jared
said unto them, surely, this thing leadeth ,into captivi­
ty , But Jared said unto his brother, suffer thern that
they, may have a lung; and therefore he said unto
them, choose ye out from among our sons a king, even
whomye will.
And it came to pass that they chose even the first
horn of the brother of Jared; and his name was Pagag.
And it came to pass that he refused,and would not be
, their king.. And the people would that Ids father
should ,constrain him; but his father would hot; and
lie commanded them that they should constrain no
man to be their king. Arid it came to pass that they
cbose all the brothers of Pagag, and they would not.
And it came to pass that neither would the sons of
Jared, even all, save it were one; and Orihah, was on-
nointed to be king oyer the people. And he began to
reign, and ihe people began to prosper; and they be­
came exceeding rich. And it came to pass that Jared
died, and his brother .also. Add it came to pass that
Orihah did walk humbly before the Lord, and did re­
member how great things 'the Lord had done for his
father, and also taught his people how great tilings the
Lord had done for their fathers.
And it came to pass that Orihah did execute judg­
ment upon the land in righteousness all his days,
whose days were exceeding many. Aad.be begat sons
and daughters; yea, he begat thirty arid one, among
whom were twenty and three sons. And it came to
pass that he also begat Kib in his old age. And it
came to pass that Kib reigned in his stead; and Kib
begat Corihor, And when Corihor was thirty and
twcryears ojd, he rebelled against his father, and went
oyef and dwelt in the land,of Nebor; and he begat
sons and daughters; and they became exceeding fair;
wherefore Corihor drew away many people after him.
And when he had gathered togetheran army, he came
up unto the land of Moron where the king dwelt, and
took him captive, which brought to pass the saying of
the brother of Jared, tha^they would be brought into
captivity, , Now- the Jand'or Moron where the king
BOOK or XTHfeR. 5 81
dwelt, wa* new the land which is called Desolation by
theNcphitcs. And it came to pass that Kib dwelt in
captivity, and hie people, under Coribor his son, until
b& becairio exceeding old; nevertheless Kib begat
Shule in his old age, while lie was yet in captivity.
And it came, to pass that Shule was angry with hit
brotherf and Shule waxed strong, and became mighty*
as to the strength of a man; and he was also mighty
in judgment. Wherefore he came to the hill Ephraim,
and he did moultenout oft lie hill, and made swords out
of steel for those whom he had drawn away with him;
and after he had armed them with swords, he return*
ed to the city Nehor and gave battle unto his brother
Corihor, by which means he obtained the kingdom,
and restoredit upto his father Kib. And now because
of the thing which Shule had done, his father bestow­
ed upon him the kingdom; therefore he began to reign
in the stead of his father. And it came to pass that
he did execute judgment in righteousness; and he did
spread his kingdom upon all the face of the land, for
the people had become exceeding numerous. And it
came to pass that Shule also begat many sons and
daughters. And Corihor repented of the many evils
which he had done; wherefore Shule gave him power
in hia kingdom. And it came to pass that Corihor bad
many sons and daughters. And among the sons of
Corihor there was one whose name was Noah.
And it came to .pass that Noah rebelled against
Shule, the king, and also his father Corihor, and drew
away Cohor his brother, and also ail his brethren and
many of the people. And he gave battle unto Shule,
the king, in which he did obtain the land of their first
inheritance; and be became a king over that part of
the land. And it came to pass that he gave battle
again onto Shule the king; and he took Shule the
king; and carried him away captive into Moron. And
it.came to pass as he was about to put him to death,
the sons of Shule crept into the house of Noah by
night and slew him, and broke down the door of the
prison and brought out their father, and placed him
upon his throne in his own kingdom; wherefore the
son of Noah did build up bis kingdom in his stead;
nevertheless they did not gain power any moreover
Shule the king; and foe people who were under the
reign of Shulo the king, did prosper exceedingly and
wax great.-* And the country was divided; and there
wan two kingdoms, the kingdom of Shule, and tho
682 book o r xtherT
kingdom of Cohor, the $on of Noah. And Gohor, the
eon of Noah, caused that his people should give battle
unto Shule, in which Shule did beat them, and did
slay Cohor; And now Cohor had a son who was
called Nimrod; and Nimrod gave up the kingdom of
Cohor unto Shule, and he did gain favor in the eyes
of Shule; wherefore Shule did bestow great favors up­
on him, and he,did do in' the kingdom of Shule^accor­
ding to his desires; and also in the reign of Shule
there came prophets among the people, who were sent
from tiie Lord, prophesying that the wickedness and
idolatry of the people was bringing a curse upon the
land, and they should be destroyed, if they did not re­
pent.
And it came to pass that the people did revileagainst
the prophets, and did mock them. And it came to
pass that king Shule did execute judgment against all
those who did revile against the prophets; and he did
execute a law throughout all the land, which gave
power unto the prophets that they should go whither­
soever they would; and by this cause the people were
brought unto repentance. And because the people did
repent of their iniquities and idolatries, the Lord did
spare them, and they began to prosper again in the
land. And it came to pass that Shule begat sons and
daughters in his old age. And there were no more
wars in the days of Shule; and he remembered the
great things that the Lord had done for his fathers in
bringing them across the great deep into the promised
land; wherefore he.did execute judgment in righteous­
ness all his days.
And it came to pass that he begat Omer, and Omer
reigned in his stead. And Omer begat Jared; and Ja­
red begat sons and daughters. And Jared rebelled
against his father, and came and dwelt' in the land of
Heth. And it came to pass that he did flatter many
people, because of his cunning words, until he had
gained the half of the kingdom. And when he had
faiped the half of the kingdom, he gave battle unto
is’fathcr, and he did carry away his father into cap­
tivity, and did make him serve in captivity. And
now in the davs of the reign of Omer, he-was in cap­
tivity the halfof his days. And it came to pass that
he begat sons and daughters, among whom were Es-
rom and Coriantumr; and they were exceeding angry
because of the doings of Jared their brother, insomuch
that they did raise an army, and gave battle unto Ja-
BOOK O P ETHER.
ted. And it came to pass that they did give battle
unto him by night. And it came to pass that when
they-had slain the army of Jared, they were about to
slay him also; and he plead with them that they
would not slay him, and he would give up the king­
dom onto his father. And it came to pass that they
did grant unto him his life. And now Jared became
exceeding sorrowful because of the loss of the king­
dom, for he had set his heart upon the kingdom, and
upon the.glory of the world. Now the daughter of
Jared being exceeding expert, and seeing the sorrows
of her father, thought to devise a plan whereby she
could-redeem the kingdom unto her father. Now the
daughter o1 Jared was exceeding fair. And it came to
pass that she did talk with her father, and said unto
him, whereby hath my father so much sorrow! Hath
he not read the record which our fathers brought across
the great deep! Behold, is there not an account con­
cerning them of old, tiiat they by their secret plans did
obtain kingdoms and great glory! And now therefore,
let my father send for Akish, the son ofKimnor; and
behold, l am fair, and I will dance before him, and I
will please him, that he will desire me to wife; where­
fore if he shall desire of thee that ye shall give unto
him me to wife, then shall ye say, I will give her il ye
will bring unto me the head of my father, the king.—
And now Omer was a friend to Akish, wherefore when
Jared had sent for Akish, the daughter of Jared danced
before him, that she pleased him, insomuch that he
desired her to wife. And it came to pass that he said
unto Jared, give her unto me to wife. And Jared said
nnto him, I will give her unto you, if ye will bring
unto me the head of my father, the king. And it
came to pass that Akish gathered in unto the house of
Jared all his kinsfolks, and said unto them, will ye
swear unto me that ye will be faithful unto me in the
thing which I shall desire of you! And it came to
pass that they all sware unto him, by the God ofheav­
en, and also by the heavens, and also by the earth, and
by their heads, that whoso should vary from the assist­
ance, which Akish desired, should lose his head; and
whoso should divulge whatsoever thing Akish made
known unto them, the same should lose his life. And
'it came to pass that thus they did agree with Akish.
And Akish did administer unto them the oaths which
were given by them of old, who also.sought power,
which had been handed down even from Cain, who
5 ®
6 8 4 BOOK OF FTH ER.
•was a murderer from the beginning. ‘ And they were
kept up by the power of the devil to administer these
oaths unto the people, to keep them in darkness, to
help such as sought power, to gain power, and to mur­
der, and to plunder, and to Tie, and to commit all
manner of Wickedness and whoredoms. And it was
the daughter of Jared who put it into his heart to
search up these things of old; and Jared put it into
the heart of Akish; wherefore Akisli administered it
unto his kindreds and iriends, leading them away by
fair promises to do whatsoever thing he desired. And
it came to pass that they formed a'secret combination,
even as they of old; which combination is most abom­
inable and wicked above all, in the sight of God; for
the Lord worketh not in secret combinations, neither
doth he will that man should shed blood, but in all
things hath forbidden it, from the beginning of man.
And now I, Moroni, do not write the manner of their
oaths and combinations, for it hath been made known
unto me that they are'had among all people, and they
are had among the Lamanitea, and they have caused
the destruction of this people of whom I am now
speaking, and also the destruction of the people of
Nephi; and whatsoever nation Shall uphold such se­
cret combinations, to get power and gain, until they
shall spread over the nation, behold, they shall be des­
troyed, for the Lord will not suffer that the blood of
his saints, which shall be shed by them, shall-always
cry unto him from the ground for vengeance upon
them, and yet he avenge them not; wherefore, O ye
Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these*things should
be shewn unto you, that thereby ye may repent of
your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combi­
nations shall get above you, which are built up to get
power and gain, and the work, yea, even the work of
destruction come upon you; yea, even the sword of
the justice of the eternal God, shall fall upon you, to
your overthrow and destruction, if ye shall suffer these
things to be; wherefore the Lord commandeth you,
when ye shall see these things come among you, that
ye shall awake to a sense of your awful situation* be­
cause of this secret combination which shall be among
you, or wo be unto it, because of the blood off them
who have been slain; for they cry' from the dust for'
vengeance upon'it, and also -upon these who build it
up. For it oomeih to pass that' whoso btuldethit up,
seekethto overthrow the freedofti ofalllahds, nations
BOOK OF ■
ETHER. 5 8 ft
and countries; and it bringeth to pass the destruction
ofallpeople, for it is built up by the devil, who is the
father of all lies; even that same liar who beguiled our
first parents; yea, even that same liar who hath caus­
ed man to commit' murder from the beginning; who
h4th‘hardened the hearts of men, that they have mur­
dered the prophets, and stoned them, and cast them
but from the beginning. Wherefore I, Moroni, am
commanded to write these things, that evil may be
done aWay, and that the lime may come that satan
may have no power upon the hearts of the children of
men, but that they may be persuaded to do good con­
tinually, that they may come unto the fountain of all
righteousness and be saved.
CHAPTER IV.
‘And now I, Moroni, proceed with my record.—
Therefore behold, it cable to pass that because of the
secret combinations of Akish and his friends, behold
they did overthrow the‘kingdom of Omer; neverthe­
less, the Lord was merciful unto Omer, and also to
his sons and to his daughters, who did not seek his
destruction. And the Lord warned Omer in a dream
that he should depart out of the land; wherefore Omer
departed out of the land with his family, and traveled
many days, and came over and passed by the hill of
Shim, and came over bythe place where the Nephites
were destroyed, and from thence eastward, and came
to a place Which was called Ablorn, by the seashore,
and there be pitched his tent, and also his sons and his
daughters, and all his household, save it were Jared
arid his family.
And it came to pass that Jared was anointed king
over the people,-by the hand of wickedness; ana he
gave uiito*Akish his daughter to wife. And it came
to pass that Akish sought tlie life of his father-in-law;
ana he applied unto those whom he had sworn by the
oath of the ancients, and they obtained the head of
Ida father-in-law, as he sat upon his throne, giving au­
dience to his people; for so great had been thespread-
ing of this wicked and secret society, that it bad cor­
rupted the hearts of all the people; therefore Jared
5 8 6 BOOK OF ETH ER.
was murdered upon bis throne, and Akish reigned in
bis stead. And it came to .pass that Akish began to
be jealous of bis son, therefore he shut him up in pris­
on, and kept him upon (ittle or no iood, until he.had
suffered death- And now the brother of him that suf­
fered death, (and his, name was Nimrah.) was angry
with his father, because of that which his father had
done unto his brother. And it came to pass that Njm-
rah gathered together a small number ofmen, and fled
out of the land, and came over and dwelt with Omer.
And it came to pass that Akish begat other sons, and
they won the hearts of the people, notwithstanding
they had sworn unto him to do ail manner of iqiqpily,
according to that which he desired. Now the people
of Akish were desirous for gain, even as Akish was
desirous for power; wherefore the sons of Akish did
offer them money, by which means they drew away
the more part of the people after them; and there be­
gan to be a war between the sons of Akish and Akish,
which lasted for the space of many years; yea, unto
the destruction of nearly all the people of the kingdom;
yea, even all, save it were thirty souls, and they who
fled with the house, of Omer; wherefore Omer was
restored again to the land of his inheritance. Andit
came to pass that Omer began to be old, nevertheless,
in his old age he begat Emer; and he anointed Emer
to be king to reign in his stead. And after that he
had anointed Emer to be king, -he saw peace in the
land for. the space of two years, and he died, having
seen exceeding many days, which were full of sorrow.
And it came to pass that Emer did reign in his stead,
and did fill the steps of his father- And the Lord be-
gap again to take the curse from off the land, and the
house of Emer did prosper exceedingly under the reign
of Emer; and in the space of. sixty and two years,
they had become exceeding strong, insomuch that they
became exceeding rich, having all manner of fruit, and
of Strain, and of silks, and of fine linen, and of gold,
ancrofsilver, and of precious things, and also all man­
ner of cattle, of oxen, and cows, and of sheep, and of
swine, and of goats, and also many other kind of ani­
mals which were useful for the food of man; and they
also had horses, and asses, and there were elephants,
and cureloms, and cumoms: all of which were useful
unto man, and more especially the elephants, and cure­
loms, and cumoms.,. And thins the Lord did pour out
his blessings upon this land, which was choice above
BO O K 'O P KTHKR. 5 8 7
all other lands; and he commanded that whoso should
possess the land, should possess it unto the Lord, or
the/should be destroyed when they were ripened in ’
iniquity; for upon such, saith the Lord, I will pour
out the fulness of my wrath. And Emer did execute
judgment in rignteousness, all his days, and he begat
many sons and daughters; and he begat Coriantum;
and he anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead. And
after he had anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead,
he lived fouryears, and he saw peace in the land; yea,
and he even saw the Son of righteousness, and did re­
joice and glory in his day; and he died' in peace. And
it came to pass that Coriantum did walk in the steps
ofhis father, and did build many mighty cities, and
did administer that which was good unto his people,
in all his days. And it came to pass that he had no
children^ even until he was exceeding old. And it
came to pass that his wife died, being an hundred and
two years old. And it came to pass that Coriantum
took to wife, in his old age, a young maid, and begat
sons and daughters; wherefore he lived until he was
an hundred and forty and two years old. And it came
to pass that, he begat Com, and Com reigned in his
stead; and he reigned forty and nine years, and he
begat Heth; and he also begat other sons and daugh­
ters. And the people had spread again overall the
face of the land, and there began again to be an ex­
ceeding great wickedness upon the face of the land,
and Heth began to err.brace the secret plans again of
old, to destroy his father. And it came to pass that
he did dethrone his father; for he stew him with his
own sword; and he did reign in Lis stead. And there
came prophets in'trie lurid again, crying repentance
unto them; that they must prepare the way of the
Lord, or there should come a curse upon the face of
the land; yea, even there should be a great famine, in
which they should be destroyed, if they did not re­
pent. But the pebple believed not the words of the
prophets, but they cast them out; and some of them
they ..cast into pits, and left them to perish. And it
came to pass that they done all these tilings according
to the commandment of the king Heth. And it came
to pass that there began to be a great dearth upon the
land, and the inhabitants began to be destroyed exceed­
ing fast, because of the dearth, for there was no rain
upon the face of the earth; and there came forth pois­
onous serpents alsp upon the face of the land, and did
588 BO O S' O F KTB4KR.
poison many people... And it came to pass that-their
flocks began to flee bofore the poisonous serpents, to­
wards the landsouthward, which was called by)the
Nephiles, Zarahemla. And it came to pass that there
were many of them which did perish by the way; nev­
ertheless, there were some which fled into theland
southward.. And it came to pass that the Lord did
cause the serpents that th^y should pursue them no
more, but that they shouldlhedge up the way-, that the
people could not pass; that whoso should attempt to
pass, might fall by the poisonous serpents'. And it
came to pass that the people did follow the course of
the beasts, and did devour the carcasses ofthem which
fell by the way, until they had devoured them all-—
Now when the people saw that they must perish, they
began to repent of their iniquities, and cry unto the
Lord. And it came tp: pass that when they had hum­
bled themselves sufficiently before the Lord, lie did
send ruin upon the face of the earth, and the people
began to revive qgain, and there begau tp be fruit in
the north countries, and in all the.countries round
about, And the Lord did shew forth his power unto
them,'in preserving them frOm famine. And it came
to pass that Shez, who was a descendant of Heth, for
Heth had perished by the famine, and alt his house­
hold, save h i were Shez; wherefore Shez began to
build up again a broken people. And it came to pass
that Shez did remember the destruction of his fathers,
and he did build up a righteous kingdom, for he re­
membered what the Lord had done in bringing Jared
and his brother across the deep; and he did walk in the
ways of the Lord, and he begat sons and'daughters.—
And his eldest son, whose name was Shez, did rebel
against him; nevertheless, Shez was rsmitten by the
hand of a robber, beeause of his exceeding riches,
which brought peace again unto his father. And it
came to pass that his father did build up many cities
upon the face of the land, and the people began again
to spread over all the face of the land. And Shez did
live to an exceeding old age; and he begat Riplakish,
and he died. And Riplakish reigned in his stead.—
And it came to pass that Riplakish did not do that
which was right in the; sight of the Lord, for he did
have many wives andcouc^jblnes, and did-lay that up­
on men’s shoulders^.which yvls grievous to be borne;:
yea,, he did tax them- with heavy taxest and with the
taxes he did build many spacipfls. bpildibgsi f And be
BOOIf OF ETHEJR. 589;
did e r^ t him, ail €gteeeding beautifiil throne, and he
did*hnild many prisons, and whoso would not be sub.
ject unto taxes, he did cast into prison; and whoso
wasjiot able to pay taxes, he did east into piison; and
he did cause that they should labor continually, for
their support: and whoso refused to labor, he did cause
to be put to death; wherefore he did-obtain ail his fine
work; yea/eyen his fine gold he did cause to be refi-,
ned in prison, and all manner offine workmanship he
did, cause to be wrought in prison. And it came to
pass that he did afflict the people with his whoredoms
and abominations; and when he had reigned for the
space of forty and two years, the people did raise up
in rebellion against him, and there begah to be war
again in the land, insomueh that Riplakish was killed,
and his descendants weredriven out of the land.
And it came to pass, after the space of many years,
Morianton, (he being a descendant of Riplakish,)
gathered together an army of outcasts, and went forth
and gave battle unto the people; and he gained pow­
er over many cities; .and the war became exceeding
sore, and did last for the space of many years, and
be did gain power over all the land, and did establish
himselt king over all the land. And after that he had
established himself king, he did ease the burden of the
people, hy which lie djd gain favor in the eyes of the
people, end they did annoint him to be their king.—
Ana he did do justice unto the people, but not unto
himself, because of his many whoredoms; wherefore
he was cut off from the presence of the Lord. And ii
came to pass that Morianton built up many cities, and
the people became exceeding rich under his reign, both
in buildings, and in gold, and in silver, and in raising
grain, and in flocks, and herds, and s^ch things which
had been restored unto them- And Morianton did
live to an exceeding great age, and then he begat
Kim; and Kim did reign in the stead of his father;
and ho did reign eight years, and his father died. And
itcame to pass that Kim did not reign in righleotis-
nese, wherefore he was not favored of the Lord. And
big brother did raise up in rebellion against him, by
which he did bring him into captivity; and he did re­
main in Captivity all his days; and he begat sons and
daughters in captivity; and in his old age he begat
Levi, ..and he died.
^I^ind.iet camo to pass that Levi did serve in captivity
itfterjhe death of pis father, for the space of forty and
590 BOOK OF ETH ER,
two years. And he did make war against the king of
the land, by which he did obtain unto himself the
kingdom. And after he had obtained unto himself the
kingdom, he did that which Was right in the sight of
the Lord; and the people did prosper in the land, and
he did live to & good old age, and begat sons and
daughters; and he also begat Cororn, whom he anoint­
ed.king in his stead. And it came to pass that Corom
did that which was good in the sight of the Lord, all
his days; and he begat many sons and daughters; and
after he had seen many days, he did pass away, even
like unto the rest of the earth; and Kish reigned in his
stead. And it came to pass that Kish passed away
also, and Lib reigned in his stead. And it came to
pass that Lib also did that which was good in the
eight of the Lord. And ip the days of Lib the poison­
ous serpents were destroyed; wherefore they did go
into the land southward, to hunt food for the people
of the land; for the land was covered with animals of
the forest. And Lib .also himself became a great
hunter- And they built a great city by the narrow
neck of land, by the place where the-sea divides the
land. And, they did preserve the land southward for
a wilderness, to get game. And the whole face of the
laud northward was covered with inhabitants; and
they were exceeding industrious, and they did buy and
sell, and traffic one with another, that they4might get
gain. And they did work in all manner of ore, and
they did make gold, and silver, and iron, and brass,
and all manner of metals; and they did dig it out of
the earth; wherefore they did cast up mighty heaps
of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and of iron,
and of copper. And they did work all manner of fine
work.' And they did have silks, and fine twined linen;
and they did work all manner of cloth, that they might
clothe themselves from- their nakedness. And they
did make all manner of tools to till the earth, both to
plough and to sow, to reap and to hoe, and also to
thrash. And they did make*ali manner of toolB with
which they did work their beasts. And they did make
all manner of weapons of war. And they did work all
manner of work of exceeding curious workmanship.
And never could be a people more blessed than were
they; and more prospered by the hand, of the Lord.—
And they were in a land that was choice above all
lands, for the Lord had spoken it. lApd'it came to
pass lbat Lib did Jive many years, and begat sons and
BOOK OF ETHER* 5 9 1
daughters; and be also begat Ilearthom. And it came
to pass that Hearihom reigned in the stead of his far
then. A»d when Hearthom had reigned twenty and
four years, .behold the kingdom was taken away from
him. And he served many years in captivity; yea,
even ail the remainder of his days. And he begat
Heth, and Heth lived in captivity all his days. And
Heth begat Aaron, and Aaron dwelt in captivity ail
his days; and he begat Amnigaddah, and Amnigaddah
also dwelt in captivity all his days; and he begat Co-
riantum, and Coriantum dwelt in captivity all his
days; and he begat Com. And it came, to pass that
Comdrew away thie half of the kingdom. And he
reigned over the hall of the kingdom forty and two
years; and he went to battle against the king Amgid,
and they fought for the, ajjjee of many years, during
which time Com gained power over Amgid, and ob­
tained power over the remainder ofthe kingdom. And
in the-days of Com there began to be robbers in the
lkn(|; and they adopted the old plans, and,administer­
ed oaths after the manner of the ancients, and sought
again to destroy the kingdom. Now Com did fight
against them much; nevertheless, he did not prevail
against them. And there came also in the days of
Com many prophets, and prophesied of the destruc­
tion of that great people, except they should repent
and turn unto the Lord, and forsake their murders and
wickedness.
And it came to pass that the prophets were rejeted
by the people, and they fled unto Com for protection,
for the people sought to destroy them; and they pro­
phesied unto Com many things; and he was blessed
in all the remainder of his days. And he lived to a
good old age, and begat Shiblom; and Shiblom reigned
in his stead., And the brother of Shiblom rebelled
against him; and there began to be an exceeding great
war in all the land.
And it came to pass that the brother of Shiblom
caused that all the prophets who prophesied of the
destruction of the. people, should be put to death; and
there was great calamity in all the land, for they
bad testified that a greater curse should come upon
the land, and also upon the people, and that there
should be a great destruction among them, such an
one as never nad been upon the face ofthe earth; and
their bones should become as heaps of earth upon the
face of the land, except they should repent of their
592 BOOK OF ETH ER.
wickedness. And they hearkened not unlo the voice
of the Lord, because of their wicked combinations;
wherefore'there began to be,, wars and contentions in
all'the l&nd, and also many famines and pestilences,
insomuch that there was a great destruction, such an
one as never had been known upon tlie face of the
earth, and all this came to pass in the days of SJiiblom.
And the people began to repent of their iniquity; and
inasmuch as th^ey did, thp Lord did have mercy on
them. ■
And it came to pass that Shiblora was: slain, and
Seth was brought into captivity; and did dwell.in
captivity all his days. And it chme to pass that Allah,
his son, did obtain the kingdom; and he did reign over
the people all his days; And he did do all manner of
iniquity in his days, by #rich he did cause the shed­
ding-of much blood; *amr few were his davB. And
Ethem, being a descendant of Abah, did obtain the
kingdom; and he also did do that which was wicked
in nis days. And it came to pass in the days of
Ethem, there came many prophets and prophesied
again unto the people; yea; they did prophesy that
the Lord would utterly destroy them from offthe face
of the earth, except they repented of their iniquities.
And it came to pass that the people hardened their
hearts, and would not kearken unto their 'words; and
the prophets mourned and withdrew from among the
people.
And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judg­
ment in wickedness all his days; and lie begat Moron.
And it came to pass that Moron did reign in his stead;
and Moron did that which was wicked before the Lord,
And it came to pass that there arose a rebellion among
the people,1because of that secret combination which
was built up to get power and gain; and there arose
a mighty rnan among them in iniquity, and; gave bat­
tle unt,o Moron in which he did overthrow the half of
the kingdom; and he did maintain the halfof the king­
dom for many years. And it came to pass'that'Moron
did overthrow' him,' and did obtain the kingdom again.
And if came to pass that there arose another mighty
man;; arid he Was a descendant of the brotherofJared.
And if came to pass that he did overthrow Moron and
obtain' the kingdom; wherefore- Moron-dwelt in cap­
tivity all the remainder of his days; and he begat
Coriantor. ^
BOOK PF ETHER. 593
And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity
all his days. And in the days of Coriantor there also
came many prophets, and prophesied of great and
marvelous things,and cried repentance unto the people,
and except,they should repent, the Lord God would
execute judgment against them to their utter destruc­
tion; and that the Lord God would send or bring
forth another people to possess the land, by his power,
after the manner which he brought their fathers.—
And they did reject all the words of the prophets, be­
cause of their secret, society and wicked abominations.
And ;t came to pass that Coriantor begat Ether, and
he died, having dwelt in captivity all bis days.
CHAPTER V.
And it came to pass that the days of Ether were in
the days of Coriantumr; and Coriantumr was king
over all the land. And Ether was'a prophet of the
Lord; wherefore. Ether cameforth in the days of Co­
riantumr, and began to prophesy unto the people, for
he could not he restrained because of the spirit of
the Lord which was in him; for he did cry from the
morning, even .until the going down of the sun, ex­
horting the people to,believe in God unto repentance,
,Jest they should be destroyed, saying unto them, that
. by faith all things are fulfilled; wherefore, whoso be-
lieveth in God, might with surety hope' for a better
world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God,
which hope eometh of faith, makelh an anchor to the
souls of men, which would make them sure and stead­
fast, always abounding in good works, being led to glo­
rify God. And it came to pass that Ether did prophesy
great and marvelous things unto the people, which
they did not believe, because they saw them not. And
now I, Moroni, would speak somewhat concerning
these things; 1 would shew unto the world that faith
is things which are hoped for and not seen; vvherefoVe,-
dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no wit­
ness until after the trial of your faith, for it was by
faith that Christ shewed himself unto our fathers, after
he had risen from the dead; and he shewed not him-
>.•:! ...» y2
594 BOOK OF ETHER,
self unto them, until after they had faith in him;
wherefore it must needs be that some had faith in him,
for he shewed himself not unto the world. But be­
cause of the faith of men, he has shewn himself unto
the world, and glorified"the name of the Father, and
prepared a way that thereby others might be partakers
of the heavenly gift, that they might hope for those
things which they have not seen; wherefore ye may
also have hope, and be partakers of the gift, if ye will
but have faith. Behold, it was by faith that they ot
old were called after the holy order of God; wherefore,
by faith, was the law of Moses given. But in the gift
of his Son, hath.God prepared,a more excellent way;
and it is by faith that it hath been fulfilled; for if there
be no faith among the children of men, God can do no
miracle among them; wherefore he shewed not himself
until after their faith. Behold, it was the faith of Al-'
ma and Amulek that caused the prison to tumble to
the earth. Behold, it was the faith of Nephi and Le-
hi, that wrought the change upon the Lamanites, that
they were baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost.
Behold, it was the'faith of Ammon and his brethren,
which wrought so great a miracle among the Laman­
ites; yea, and even all they who wrought miracles,
wrought them by faith, even those who were before
Christ, and also them who wore after. And it was by
faith that the three disciples obtained a promise that
they should not taste of death; and they obtained not
the promise until after their faith. And neither.atany
time hath any wrought miracles until after their faith;
wherefore they first believed in the Son of God. And
there were ftiany whose faith was so exceeding strong
even before Christ came who could not be kept from
within the veil, but truly saw with their eyes the
things which they had beheld with an eye of faith, and
they were glad. ’And behold, we have seen in this
record, that one of these was tire brother of Jared; for
so great was his faith in God, that when God put
forth his finger, be could not hide it from the sight of
the brother of Jared, because of his word which he had
spoken unto him, which word he had obtained by faith.
And after the brother of Jared had heheld the finger
of the Lord, because of the promise which the broth­
er of Jared had obtained by faith, the Lord could
not withhold any thing from his sight; wherefore
he shewed him-all things, for he could no longer be
kept without the veil- And- it is by faith that my fa-
BOOK OF XTHER, 595
there have obtained the promise that these things
should come unto their brethren through the Gentiles;
therefore the Lord hath commanded me, yea, even
Jesus Christ. And I said unto him, Lord, the Gen­
tiles will mock at these things, because of our weak-
nessin writing; for Lord, thou bast made us mighty
in word by faith, but thou hast not made us mighty in
writing; for thou hast made all this people that thev
coaid speak much, because of the Holy Ghost which
thou hast given them; and thou hast made us that we
could write but little, because of the awkwardness of
our hands. Behold, thou bast not made us mighty m
writing like unto the brother of Jared, for thou madest
him that the things which he wrote, were mighty even
as thou art, unto the overpowering of man to read
them. Thou bast also made our words powerful and
great, even that we cannot write them; wherefore,,
when we write,' we behold our weakness, and stumble
because of the placing of our words; and I fear lest the
Gentiles shall mock at our words. And when I had
said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying, fools mock,
but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient fbr
the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your
weakness; and if men come unto me, 1 will shew unto
them their weakness. I give unto men weakness, that
they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for i
all men that humble themselves before me; for if they •
humble themselves before me, and have faith in me,
then will I make weak things become strong unto
them. Behold; I will shew unto the Gentiles their
weakness, and I will shew unto them that faith, hope, i
and charity, bringeth unto me the fountain of all i)
righteousness. And I, Moroni, having heard these
words, was comforted, and said, O Lord, thy right* j
sous will be done, for I know that thou workest unto j
the children of men according to their faith; for the !
brother of Jared said unto the mountain Zerin, remove,
and it was removed. And if he had not bad faith, it '
would not have moved; wherefore thou workest after
men have faith; for thus did thou manifest thyselfunto j
thy disciples. For after they had faith, and did speak
in thy name, thou didst shew thyself unto them in j
great power; and I also remember that thou hast said |
that thou hast prepared a house for man; yea, even
among the mansions of thy Father, in which man
might have a more excellent hope; wherefore sinan
must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance'm the
5 9 6 BOOK OF E T H £r .
place which thou*hast prepared. And again 1 remem­
ber that thou*hast.said that'thou hast loved the world,
even unto the laying down of thy life for the world,
that thoti Hiightest.take it again to prepare a place for
the children of men. And now I know that this love
which thou hast had for the 'children of men, is chari­
ty; wherefore, except men shall have charity, they
cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared in
the mansions of thy father. Wherefore, I know by
this thing which thou hast said, that if the Gentiles
have not charity, because of our weakness, that thou
wilt prove them, and take away their talent, vea, even
that which they liave received, and give bnto them
who shall,have more abundantly. , - ’
And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord
that he would give unto the Gentiles grace, that they
might have charity. And it came*' to pass that the
Lord said unto me, if they have not charity, it matter-
etb not unto thee; thou hast been faithful; wherefore
tby garments shall be made clean. And because thou
hast seen thy weakneess, thou shalt be'made strong,
even unto the sitting down in the place which I hive
prepared in-the mansions of my Father., And now I,
Moroni, bid farewell unto the Gentiles; yea, and also
Unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet
before the judgment seat of Christ, Where all men
shall know that my garments are not spotted with
your blood; and then shall ye know that I have seen
Jesus, and that he hath talked with me face to face,
and that he told me in plain humility, even as a man
telleth another in mine own language, concerning
these things; and only a few have I written; because
of my weakness in writing. And now I Would com­
mend: you to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets
and apostles have written, that the grace of God the
Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy
Ghost, which beareth record of them; may be, and
abide in you forever. Amen. .
CHAPTER VI.
Atu> now-I* Moroni, proceed to*'finish my record
concerning the;destruction: of the- penile of wb^n-I
BOOK OF ETH ER; 597
have been writing. For behold, they rejected all the
words of Ether; for he truly told them of all things,
from the beginning of man; and that after the waters
bad receded from off the face of this land, it became a
choice land above all other lands, a chosen lapd of the
Lord: wherefore the Lord would Havg that all men
should serve him, who dwell upon the face thereof;
and that it was the place of lh'e New Jerusalem, which
should corns down out of heaven, and the holy sanc­
tuary of the Lord. Behold, Ether saw the days of
Christ, and he spake concerning a New Jerusalem up­
on this land; and he spake also concerning the house
of Israel, and the Jerusalem from whence Lehi should
come; after it should be destroyed, it should be built
up again a holy city unto the Lord: wherefore’it
could not be a New Jerusalem, for it had been in a
time of old, but it should be built up again, and become
a holy city of the Lord: and, it should be built up
unto'the house of Israel; and that a New Jerusalem
should be built up upon this land, unto the remnant
of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has been
a type; for as Joseph* brought His father down into
the land of Egypt, even so he died there; wherefore
the Lord brought a remnant of the seed of Joseph out
ofthelandof Jerusalem, that lie might' be merciful
unto the seed of Joseph, that they should perish not,
even as he was merciful unto the father of Joseph,
that he should perish not; wherefore the remnant of
the house of Joseph shall be built upon this land; and
it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they shall
build up a' holy city unto the Lord, like unto the Jerusa­
lem of old; and they shall no more be confounded,
until the end come, when the earth shall pass away.
And’there'shall be a new heaven and a new earth; and
they shall be like unto the old, save the old*have pass­
ed away, and all things have become new. And then
someth the New Jerusalem; and blessed are they who.
dwell therein, for it is they whose garments are white
through the blood of the Lamb; and they are they
who are numbered among the remnant of the seed of
Joseph, who were of the house of Israel. And then
also cometh the Jerusalem of old; and the inhabitants
thereof, Messed are they, for they have been washed
in the blCod of the Lamb;"and theyare they who were
scattered'and gathered in from the four quarters*of the.
earth, dnd from the north countries; and are partakers
ofthe fulfilling of the covenant which God made with
BOOK or ETH LB.
their father Abraham. And when these tbingscome,
bringeth to pass the scripture which saith, there are
they who were -first, who shall be last; and there are
they who were last, who shall be first.
And I waB about to write more, but I am forbidden;
but great and marvelous were the prophecies of Ether,
but they esteemed him as-nought, and cast him out,
and lie hid himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and
by night he went forth viewing the things which
should come upon the people. And as he dwelt in
the cavity of a rock, lie made the remainder of this
record, viewing the destructions which came upon, the
people by night And it came to pass that in that
same year which he was cast out from among the
people, there began to be a great war among the peo­
ple, for there were many who rose up who were
mighty men, and sought to destroy Coriantmnr by
their secret plans of wickedness, of which hath been
spoken. .And now Coriahtumr, having studied him-
self in all the arts of war, and all the cunning of the
world, wherefore he gave battle unto them who sought
to destroy him; but he repented not, neither his fair
sons nor daughters; neither the fair sons and daugh­
ters of Cohor; neither the fair sons and daughters of
Corihor; and in fine, there was none of the fair sons
and daughters upon the face of the whole earth, who
repented of their sins: wherefore it came to pass that
in the first year that Ether dwelt in the cavity of a
rock, there was many people who were slain by the
BWord of those secret combinations fighting against
Coriantumr, that they might obtain the kingdom.—
And it came to pass that the sons of Coriantumr
fought much, and bled much. And- in .the second
year, the word of the Lord came to Ether, that he
should go and prophesy unto Coriantumr, that if he
would repent, and all his household, the Lord would
give unto him his kingdom, and spare the people,
otherwise they should be.destroyed, and all his house-
hold, save it were himself, and he should only live to
see the fulfilling of the -prophecies which had been
spoken concerning another people receiving the land
for their inheritance; and Coriantumr should receive a
burial by them,* and every soul should be destroyed
save it were Coriantumr,. And it camejto pass that
Coriantumr repented not, neither his household, nei­
ther the people; and the wars ceased not; and they
eoughtto kill Ether., .but he fled from before them,
598
BOOK OF ETHER. 5 9 9
and hid again in the cavity of the rock. And it came
to pass that there arose up Shared, and he also-gave
battle unto Coriantumr; and he did heat him, inso­
much that in the third year he did bring him into cap­
tivity. And the sons of Coriantumr, in the fourth
year, did beat Shared, and did obtain tire kingdom
again unto their father. Now there began to be a war
upon all the face of the land, every man with his
band, fighting for that which lie desired. And there
were robbers, and in fine, all manner of wickedness
upon all the face of the land. And it came tt> pass
that Gorianfumr wds exceeedirig angry with Shared,
and he went against, him with his armies, to- battle;
and they did meet in great anger; and they did meet
in the valley of Giigal; and the battle became exceed­
ing sore. And it came to pass that Shared fought
against him for the space of three days. And it came
to, pass that Coriantumr beat him, and did pursue him
until he came to the plains of Heshlon. And it came
to pass that Shaved gave him battle again upon the
plains; and behold, he did beat Coriantumr, and drove
liim back again to the valley of Giigal. And Corian-
lumr gave Shared battle again in the valley of Giigal,
in which he beat Shared, and slew him. And Shared
wounded Coriantumr, in his thigh, that he did not
go to battle again for the space of two years, in which
time all the people upon all the face of the land were
shedding blood, and there was none to- restrain them.
And now thfere began to be a great curse upon all the
land, because of the iniquity of the people, in which,
ifa man should lay his tool or his swtrd upon his
shelf, or upon the place whither he would keep it, and
behold, upon the morrow, he could not find it, so great
was the curse upon the land, Wherefore every man did
cleave unto,that which was. his own, with his hands,
and would not borrow* neither would he lend; and
every man kept the ,hilfc of his sword thereof, in his
right hand, in the defence of his property and his own
lire, and of his wives and children. And now after
the space of two years, and'after the death of Shared,
behold, there arose the brother of Shared, and’lie gave
battle unto Coriantumr, in which Coiianlump did beat
him, and1did pursue him to the wilderness, of Akish.
And it came to pass that the brother of Shared did
give battle-unto him in the wilderness of Akish; and
the battle became exceeding sole, and many thou­
sands fell by the sword; And it oame to pass that
600 BOOK OF ETHXR.
Coriantumr did lay siege to the wilderness, and the
brother of Shared did march forth out of the wilder­
ness by night, and slew a part of the army ofCorian­
tumr, as they were drunken. And he came forth
to the land of Moron, and placed himself upon the
throne of Coriamumf And it came to pass that Co­
riantumr dwelt with his army in the wilderness, for
the space of two years, in which he did receive great
strength to Jiis army. Now the brother of Shared,
whose name was Gilead, also received .great strength
to his army, because of secret combinations. And it
came to pass that his high priest murdered him as he
sat uponhis throne. And it came to pass that one oi the
secret combinations murdered him in a secret pass, and
obtained unto himself the kingdom; and his name w
.tu;
Lab; and Lib was a man of great stature, more than
any other man among all the people. And it came to
pass that .in the fust year ofLib, Coriantumr came up
unto the land of Moron, and gave battle unto Lib.
And it came to pass that he fought with Lib, in which
Lib did smite upon his arm that he was wounded;
nevertheless, the army of Coriantumr did press
forward upon Lib, that he fled to the borders up­
on the seashore. And it came to pass that Co­
riantumr pursued him; and Lib gave battle unto him
upon the seashore. And it came to pass that Lib
did smite the army of Coriantumr, that they fled again
to the wildernes of Akish. And it came to pass that
Lib did pursue him until he came to the plains of
Agosh. And Coriantumr had taken all the people
with him, as he fled before Lib, in that quarter of tbe
land whither he fled. And when he had come to the
plains of Agosh, ho gave battle unto Lib, and he
smote upon him until he died; nevertheless, the broth­
er of Lib did come against Coriantumr in the stead
thereof, and the battle became exceeding sore, in the
which Coriantumr fled again before the army of the
brother of Lib. Now the name-of the brother of Lib
was called Shir. And it came to pass that Shiz pur­
sued after Coriantumr, and he did overthrow many
cities, and he did stay both women and children, and
be did burn the cities thereof; and there went a fear
of Shi* throughout all the land; yea, a cry went forth
throughout the land, who can stand before the army
of Shizt Behold, he sweepeth the earth before him!
And it came to pass that the people began to flock to­
gether in armies, throughout all the face of the land-
BOOK OF ETHER. 601
And they were divided, and a part of them fled to the
army of Shiz, and a part ot them fled to the army of
Coriantumr. And so great and lasting had been the
war, and so long had been the scene of bloodshed and
carnage, that the whole face of the land was covered
with the, bodies of the dead; and so swift and speedy
was the war, that there was none left to bury the dead,
but they did march forth from the shedding of blood,
to the shedding of blood, leaving the bodies of both
men, women and children, strewed upon the face of
the land, to become a prey to the worms of the flesh;
and the scent thereof went forth upon the face of the
land, even upon all the face of the land; wherefore
the people became troubled by day and by night, be­
cause of the scent thereof; nevertheless, Shiz did not
cease to pursue Coriantumr, for he had sworn to
avenge himself upon Coriantumr of the blood of his
brother, who had been slain, and the word of the Lord
which came to Ether, that Coriantumr should not fall
by the sword. And thus we see that the Lord did
visit them in the fulness of his wrath, and their wick­
edness and abominations, had prepared a way for their
everlasting destrnction. And it came to pass that
Shiz did pursue Coriantumr eastward, even to the
borders of the seashore, and there he gave battle unto
Shiz for the space of three days; and so terrible was
the destruction among the armies of Shiz, that the
people began to be frightened, and began to flee be­
fore the armies of Coriantumr; and they fled to the
land of Corihor, and swept off the inhabitants before
them, all they that would not join them; and they
pitched their tents in the valley of Corihor. And
Coriantumr pitched his tents in the valley of Sburr.
Now the valley of Shurr was near the hill Comnor;
wherefore Coriantumr did gather his armies together,
upon the hill Comnor, and did sound a trumpet unto
the armies of Shiz, to invite them forth to battle.—
And it came to pass that they came forth, but were
driven again; and they came the second time; and
they were driven again the second time. And it came
to pass that they came again the third time, and the
battle became exceeding sore. And it came to pass
that Shiz smote upon Coriantumr, that he gave him
many deep wounds. %And Coriantumr having lost his
blood, fainted, and was carried away as though he
were dead, ft Now the loss, of men, women and child-
Z - - - i f i . : r
602 b o o k or i T i r e n .
ten, on both aides, was so great that Shiz command­
ed his people that they should not pursue the armies
of Coriantumr; wherefore they returned to their
camp.
And it came to pass when Coriantumr had recover­
ed of bis wounds, he began to remember the words
which Kther had spoken unto him; he saw that there
had been slain^y the sword already nearly two mill-
ions of his people, and he began to sorrow in his
heart; yea, there had been slain two millions of migh­
ty men, and also their wives and their children. He
began to repent of the evil which he had done: he be­
gan to remember the words which Imd been spoken
by the mouth of all the prophets, and he saw them
that they were fulfilled, thus far, every whit: and his
soul mourned, and refused to he comforted. And it
came to pass that he wrote an epistle unto Sim, de­
siring him that he would spare the people,. and he
would give up the kingdom for the sake of the lives of
the people. And it came to pass that when Shiz bad
-received his epistle, he wrote an espistle unto Corian-
tumr, that if ho would give himself up, that he might
slay him with his own sword, that he would spare the
lives of the people. And it came to pass that the peo­
ple repented not of their iniquity; and the people of
Coriantumr were stirred up to anger against the peo­
ple of Shiz; and the people of Shiz were stirred up to
anger against the people of Coriantumr; wherefore
the people of Shiz did give battle nnto the people of
Coriantumr. And when Coriantumr saw that he was
about to fall, he tied again before the people of Shiz.
And it came to pass that he came to the waters of
Ripliancum, which, by interpretation, is large, or toex­
ceed all; wherefore, when they came to these waters,
they pitched their tents; and Shiz also pitched bis
.tents near unto them; and therefore on the morrow,
they did come to battle. And it came to pass that
they fought an exceeding sore battle, in which Corian-
tumr was wounded again, and be fainted with the loss
of blood. And it came to pass that the armies of Co­
riantumr did press upon the armies of Shiz, that they
beat them,-that they caused them to Ace before them;
and they did flee southward, and did pitch their tents
in a place which was called Ogatb. And it came to
E
ase that the army of Coriantumr did pitoh their tents
y the hiil iUcraah; and it was that same hill' where
my father Mormon did hide up the records unto the
B»OK OF ETHER. 603.
Lord, which were sacred; And .it came to pass that
they clid gather toga! her all the people, upon all the
face of tire land, who had not been slain, save it was
Ether. And it came to pass that Ether did behold*faU
the doings of the people; and he beheld that the peo­
ple who were for Coriantomr, were gathered together
to..lhe army of Coriauumir; and the people who were
for Shiz, were gathered together to the army of Shiz;
wherefore they were for the space of four years, gath­
ering together the people, that they might”get all who
were upon the lace of the land, and that they might
receive; all the strength which it was possible that
they could receive. And it came to pass that when
they were all gathered together, every one to the ar­
my which he would, with their wives, and their child­
ren; both men, women and children being armed with
weapons of war, having shields, and breast-plates,
and head-plates, and being clothed after the manner
of war, they did inarch forth one against another, to
battle; and they fought all that day, and conquered
not,. And it came to pass that when it was night
they were weary, and retired to their camps; and af­
ter they had retired to their camps, they took up a
bowling and a lamentation for the loss of the slain of
their people; and so great were their cries, their howl-
inga and lamentations^ that it did rend the air exceed­
ingly. And it came to pass that on the morrow they
did go again to battle, and great and terrible was that
day; nevertheless they conquered not, and when the
night oame again, they did rend the air with their
cries, and- their howlings, and their mournings, for
the loss of the slain of their people.
And itcaine to pass that Coriantumr wrote again
an epistle unto Shiz, desiring that he would not come
again to battle, but that he would take the kingdom,
and spare the lives of the people. But behold, the
spirit of the Lord had ceased striving with them, and
satan had full power over the heartB of the people, for
they were given up unto the hardness of their hearts,
and the blindness of their minds, that they might be
destroyed; wherefore they*went again to battle. And
it came to pass that they fought all that day, and
when the night came they slept upon their swords;
and on the morrow they fought even until the night
came; and when the night came they were drunken
with anger, even as a man who is drunken with wine;
and they slept again upon their swords; and on the
604
morrow the; fought again; and when the night came
they had all fallen by the sword, save it were fifty and
twp of the people of Coriantumr, and sixty and nine
of the people of Shiz. And it came to pass that they
slept upon their swords that night, and on the mor­
row they fought again, and they contended in their
mights with their swords, and with their shields, all
that day; and when the night came there were thirty
and two of the people of Shiz, and twenty and seven
of the people of Coriantumr. And it came to pass
that they ate and slept, and prepared for death on the
morrow. And they were large and mighty men, as
to the strength of men. And it came to pass that
they fought for the space of three hours, and they
fainted with the loss of blood. And it came to pass
that when the men of Coriantumr had received suffi­
cient strength, that they could walk, they were about
to flee for their lives, but behold, Shiz arose, and also
his men, and he swore in his wrath that be would
slay Coriantumr, or he would perish by the sword;
wherefore he did pursue them, and on the morrow he
did overtake them; and they fought again with the
sword. And it came to pass that when they had all
fallen by the sword, save it were Coriantumr and
Shiz, behold, Shiz had fainted with loss of blood.—
, And it came to pass that when Coriantumr had lean­
ed upon his sword, that he rested a little, he smote off
the head of Shiz. And it came to pass that after he
had smote off the head of Shiz, that Shiz raised upon
his hands and fell; and after that he had struggled for
breath, he died. And it came to pass that Corian­
tumr fell to the earth, and became as if he had no
life. And the Lord spake unto Ether, and said unto
him, go forth. And he went forth, and beheld that
the words of the Lord had all been fulfilled; and he
finished1his record; (and the hundredth part I have
not written;) and he hid them in a manner that the
people of Limhi did find them. Now the last words
which are written by Ether, are these, whether the
Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the will
of the Lord in the flesh, it mattered! not, if it so be
that l am saved in the kingdom of God. Amen.
BOOK OF ETHER,
V
. < . 'i.
THE BOOK OF MORONI.
* CHAPTER I.
Now I, Moroni, after having made an end of abridg­
ing the account of the people of Jared, I had supposed
not to have written more, but I have not as yet per­
ished] and I make not myself known to the Laman-
ites, lest they should destroy me. For behold, their
wars are exceeding fierce among themselves; and be­
cause of their hatted, they put to death every Nephite
that will not deny the Christ. And I, Moroni, will
not deny the Christ; wherefore, I wander whitherso­
ever I can, for the safety of mine own life. Where­
fore I write a few more things, contrary to that which
I had supposed; for I had supposed not to have writ­
ten any more; but I write a few more things, that
perhaps they may be of worth unto my brethren, the
Lamanites, in some future day, according to the will
of the Lord.
A
'
CHAPTER II,
- ' V ' ,
, .
The words of Christ, which he spake unto hi# dis­
ciples, the twelve whom he had chosen, as be laid hi#
hands upon them. And he called them by name, say-
ing, ye shall call on the Father in my name, in migh­
ty prayer; and after ye have done this, ye shall have
power that on him whom ye shall lay your hands, ye
*'shall give the Holy Ghost; and in my name shall ye
give it, for thus do mine apostles. Now Christ spake
these words unto them at the time of his first appear­
ing; and the multitude heard it not, but the disciples
heard it; and on as many as they laid their hands,
feU the Holy Ghost.
K
3
3
? •'
V.’ ■ H . v . i U
606 r BOOK OF MORONI.
CHAPTER IH.
The manner which the disciples, who were called
the elders of the church, ordained priests and teach­
ers. After they had prayed unto the Father in the
name of Christ, they laid their hands upon them, and
said, in the name of Jesus Christ 1 ordain you to be a
priest; (or if he be a teacher,) I ordain you to be a
teacher, to preach repentance and remission of sins
through Jesus Christ, by the endurance of faith on his
name to the end. Amen, And after this manner did
they ordain priests and teachers, according to the
gifts and callings of God unto men; and they ordained
them by the power of the Holy Ghost, which was in
them.
CHAPTER IV.
T he manner of their elders and priests administer­
ing the flesh and blood of Christ unto the church.—
And they administered it according to the command­
ments of Christ; wherefore we know the manner to
be trae; and the eider or priest did minister it. And
they did kneel down with the church, and prat’ to the
Father in the name of Christ, saying, O God, the
Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son
Jesus Christ, to bless and <
sanctify this bread to the
souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat
in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness
unto thee, O God the Eternal Father, that they are
willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and
always remember'him, and keep his commandments
i which he hath, given them, that they may always
! have his spirit to he with them. Amen.
i -
| |5;s
| | :CHAPTER v .f
The manner of administering the wine. Behold,
j they took the cnp, and said, O God, the Eternal Fa-
L
BOOK OF MORONI. 607
ther, we ask thee, in the name of thy Son Jesus
Christ, to bless and sanctify this wine to the souls of
all those who drink of it, that they may do it in re-
membrance of the blood of thy Son, which was shed
for them, that they may witness unto thee, O God
the Eternal Father, that they do always remember
bint, that they may have his spirit to be with them.
Amen.
CHAPTER VI.
Akd now I speak concerning baptism. Behold, el­
ders, priests, and teachers were baptized; and they
were not baptized, save they brought forth fruit meet
that they were worthy of it; neither did they receive
any unto baptism, save they came forth with a broken
heart and a contrite spirit, and witnessed unto the
ohurch that they truly repented of all their sins. And
none were received unto baptism, save they look upon
them the name of Christ, having a determination to
perve him to the end. And after they had been re­
ceived unto baptism, and were wrought upon and
cleansed by the power of the Holy Ghost, they were
numbered among the people of the church of Christ,
and their names were taken, that they might be re­
membered and nourished by the good word of God, to
keep them in the right way, to keep them continually
watchful unto prayer, relying alone upon the merits
of Christ, who was the author and the finisherof their
fhith. i And the church did meet together oft, to fast
and to pray, and to speak one with another concern-
ing the welfare of their souls; and they did meet to-
fether oft to partake of bread and wine, in remem-
ranee of the Lord Jesus; and they were strict to ob­
serve that there should be no iniquity among them;
and whoso was found to commit iniquity, and three
witnesses of the church did condemn them before the
elders; and if they repented not, and confessed not,
their names were blotted out, and they were not num­
bered among the people of Christ; but as oft as they
repented, and sought forgiveness, with real intent,
they were forgiven. And their meetings were con­
ducted by the church, after the manner of the work­
608 BOOK OF MORONI.
ings ofthe spirit, and by the power of the Holy Ghost;
for as the power of the Holy Ghost led them whether
to preach, or exhort, or to pray, or to supplicate, or to
sing, evcn eo it was done.
CHAPTER VII.
And now I, Moroni, write a few of the words of
my father Mormon, which he spake concerning faith,
hope and charity; for alter this manner did he speak
unto the people, as he taught them in the synagogue
which they had built for the place of worship. And
now, I, Mormon, speak unto you, my beloved breth­
ren; and it is by the grace of God, the Father, and
our Lord Jesus Christ, and his holy will, because of
the gift of his calling unto me, that I am permitted to
speak unto you at this time; wherefore I would speak
unto you that are of the church, that are the peace-,
able followers of Christ, and that have obtained a suffi­
cient hope, by which ye can enter into the rest, of the
Lord, from this time henceforth, until ye shall rest
with him in heaven. And now my brethren, I judge
these things of you because of your peaceable walk
with the children of men; for I remember the word of
God, which aaith, by their works yeBhall know them;
for if their works be good, then they are good also.
For behold, God hath said, a man being evil, cannot
do that which is good; for if he offereth a gift, or
prayeth unto God, except he shall do it with real in­
tent, it profiteth him nothing. For behold, it is not
counted unto him for righteousness. For behold, if a
man being evil, givetb a gift, he doth it grudgingly;
wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he
had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil be­
fore God. And likewise also is it counted evil unto a
man, if he shall pray, and not with real intent of
heart; yea, and it profiteth him nothing; for God re-
ceiveth none such; wherefore, a man being evil, can­
not do that which is good; neither will he give a good
gift. For behold, a bitter fountain cannot nring forth
good water; neither can a good fountain bring forth
bitter water; wherefore a man being a servant of the
devil, cannot follow Christ; and if he follow Christ*
BOOS or MORONI. 609
he cannot be a eervant of the devil. Wherefore, all
things which are good, cometh of God; and that which
is evil, cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy
unto God, and fighteth against him continually, and
inviteth and enticeth to sin, and to do that which is
evil continually. But behold, that which is of God,
inviteth and enticeth to do good continually; where­
fore, every thing which inviteth and enticeth to do
good, and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired
of God. Wherefore take heed, roy beloved brethren,
that ye do not judge that whioh is evil to be of God,
or that which is good and of God, to be of the devil.
For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to judge,
that ye may know good from evil; and the way to
judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect
knowledge, as the daylight is from the dark night.
| For behold, the spirit of Christ is given to every mant<
that they may know good from evil; wherefore I shew*
unto you the way to judge: for every thing which in­
viteth to do good, ana to persuade to believe in Christ,
is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; where­
fore ye may know with a perfect knowledge, it is of
God; but whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil,
and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not
| God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it
is of the devil, for after this manner doth the devil
work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no not
one; neither doth his angels; neither do they who
subject themselves unto him.
And now my brethren, seeing that ye know the
light by which ye may judge, which light is the light
of Christ, see that ye do not judge wrongfully; for
with that same judgment which ye judge, ye shall al­
so be judged. Wherefore I beseech of you, brethren,
that ye should search diligently in the light of Christ,
that ye may know good from evil; and if ye will lay
hold upon every good thing, and condemn it not, ye
certainly will be a child of Christ. And now, my
brethren, how is it possible that ye can lay hold upon
every good thing! And now I come to that faith, of
which I said 1 would speak; and I will tell you the
way whereby ye may lay hold on every good thing.
For behold, God knowing all things, being prom ever­
lasting to everlasting, behold, be sent angels to minis­
ter unto the children ofmen, to moke manifest con­
cerning the coming' of Christ; and in Christ there
should come every good thing. And God also declar­
6 1 0 BOOK OF MORONI.
ed unto prophets, by bis own month, that Christ
should come. And behold, there were diverse ways
that be did manifest things unto the children of men,
which were good; and all things which are good,
cometh of Christ, otherwise men were fallen, and
there could no good thing come unto them. Where­
fore, by the ministering of angels, and by every word
which proceeded forth out of the mouth of God, men
began to exercise faith in Christ; and thus by faith,
they did lay hold upon every good tiling; and thus it
was until the coming of Christ. And after that he
came, men also were saved by faith in his name; and
by faith, they become the sons of God. And as sure
as Christ liveth, he spake these words unto our fa­
thers, saying, whatsoever thing ye shall ask the Fa­
ther in my name, which is good, in faith believing
that ye snail receive, behold, it shall be done unto
'you. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, hath miracles
ceased, because Christ hath ascended into heaven, and
hath set down on the right hand of God, to claim of
the Father his rights of mercy which he hath upon
the children of men; for he hath answered the ends of
the law, and he claimeth all those who have faith in
him; and they who have faith in him, will cleave un­
to every good thing; wherefore he advocateth the
cause of the children of men; and he dwelleth eternal­
ly in the.heavens. And because he hath done this,
my beloved brethren, hath miracles ceasedt Behold I
say unto you, nay; neither have angels ceased to
minister unto the children of men. For behold, they
are subject unto him, to minister according to the
word of his command, shewing themselves unto them
of strong faith and a firm mind, in every form of god­
liness. And the office of their ministry is, to call
men unto repentance, and to fulfil and to do the work
of the covenants of the Father which he hath made
unto the children of men, to prepare the way among
the children of men, bv declaring the word of Christ
unto the chosen vessels of the Lord, that they may
bear testimony of him; and by so doing, the Lord
God prepareth the way that the residue of men may
have faith in Christ, that the Holy Ghost may have
place in their hearts, according to the power thereof;
and after this manner bringeth to ^pass the Father the
covenants which he hath matte unto the children of
men. And;Christ hatheaid, if ye will 'have faith in
ate, ye shall have powerto do -whatsoeverthing is ex-
BOOK OF K 0R 03K 611
pedient in me. And he hath said, repent all ye ends
of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in
m y name, and have faith in me, that ye may liesaved.
And now my beloved brethren, il tins be the case
that these things are true which 1 have spoken unto
you, and God will shew uuto you with power and
great glory at'the last day, that they are true; and if
they are true, has the day of miracles ceased? or have
angels ceased to appear unto the children of men?—
or has he withheld the power of the Holy Ghost from
them? or wilt he, so long as time shall last, or the
earth shall stand, or there shall be one man upon the
face thereof to be saved? Behold I say unto you nay,
for it is by faith that miracles are wrought; aud it is
by faith that angels appear and minister unto men;
wherefore if these things have ceased, wo be unto the
children of men, for il is because of unbelief, and all is
vain; for no man can be saved, according to tbe words
of Christ, save they shall have faith in his name;
wherefore, if these things have ceased, then has faith
ceased also; and awful is the state of man; for they
are as though there had been no redemption made.—
But behold, my beloved brethren, I judge better things
ofyou, for Ijudge that yehave iaitn in Christ because
of your meekness; for if ye have not faith in him, then
ye ate not fit to be numbered among the people of his
church. And again my beloved brethren, 1 would
speak unto you concerning hope. How is it that ye
can attain unto faith, save ye shall have hope? And
what is it that ye shall hope for? Behold 1 say unto
you, that ye shall have hope through theatonement of
Christ ana the power of bis resurrection, to be raised
unto life eternal; and this because of your faith in
him according to the promise; wherefore, if a man
have faith, he must needs have hope; for without faith
therecannot be any hope. And again, behold 1 say un­
to you, that he cannot have faith and hope, save he
shall be meek, and lowly of heart; if so, his faith and
hope is vain, for none is acceptable before God, save
the meek and lowly of heart; and if a man be meek
and lowly in heart, and confesses by the power of the
Holy Ghost, that Jesus is tl<e Christ, he must needs
havecharity; for if hehave not charity, he is nothing;
wherefore he must needs have charity. And charity
sufiereth long, and is kind, and enviethnot, and is not
pufifod up, seekethnother-own, is not easily provoked, .
thinketb noevil, and rejoiceth not in iniquity, bat*»-
612 BOOK OF MOK05I.
joiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth ail
things, hopeth all things, endureth all things; where­
fore, my beloved brethren, if ye have not charity, ye
are nothing, for charity never faiieth. Wherefore,
cleave unto charity, which is the greatest ofall, for all
things must fail; but charity is thepure love of Christ
and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed
of it at the last day, it shall be well with them.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, pray unto the Father
with all the energy of heart, that ye may be filled with
this love which he hath bestowed upon all who are
true followers of his Son Jesus Christ, that y« may be­
come the sons of God, that ?rhen he shall appear, we
shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is, that
we may have this hope, that we may be purified even
as he is pure. Amen.
CHAPTER VIII.
An epistle of my father Mormon, written to me Mo­
roni; and it was written unto me soon after my call­
ing to the ministry. And on this wise did he write
unto me, saying, my belovedson Moroni, I rejoice ex­
ceedingly that your Lord Jesus Christ hathbeen mind­
ful of you, and hathcalled you to his ministry, and to
his holy work. Iam mindful of you always in my
prayers, continually proving unto God the Father in
the name of hie holy child, Jesus, that he, through his
infinite goodness and grace, will keepyou through the
endurance of faith on his name to the end.
And now my son I speak unto you concerning that
which grieveth me exceedingly; for it grieveth me
that there should disputations rise amongyou. For if
I have learned the truth, there has been disputations
among you concerning the baptism of your little chil­
dren. And now my son, 1 desire that ye should labor
diligently, that this gross error should be removed
from among you; for, for this intent I have written
this epistle. For immediately after J -had learned
these things ofyou, 1 inquired of the Lord concerning
the matter.' And the word ofithe Loni came to me
by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying, listen to the
words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your
BOOK OF MOKOHI. 6 1 3
God. Behold, 1 came into the world not to call the
righteous, bat sinners to repentance; the whole need
no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore little
children are whole, for they arenot capable of commit*
ting sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from
them in me, that it hath no power over them; and the
law of circumcision is done away in me. And after
this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of
God unto me; wherefore my beloved son, I know that
it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should bap­
tize little children. Behold Isay unto you, that this
thing shall ye teach, repentance and baptism unto
those who are accountable and capable of committing
sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be
baptized, and humble themselves as their little children,
and they shall all be saved with their little children;
and their little children need no repentance, neither
baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the
fulfilling the commandments unto the remission of
sins. But little children are alive in Christ, even
from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a
partial God, and also &changable God, and a respect­
er to persons; for how many little children have died
without baptism. Wherefore, if little children could
not be saved without baptism, these must have gone
to an endless hell. Behold I say unto you, that he
that supposeth that little children need baptism, is in
the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity; for
he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity; wherefore,
should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go
down to hell. For awfbl is the wickedness to suppose
that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the
other must perish because he hath no baptism. Wo
be unto him that shall pervertthe ways of the Lord af­
ter this manner, for they shall perish, except they re­
pent. Behold, I speak with boldness, having authori­
ty from God; and I fear not what man can do; for
perfect love casteth out all fear; and I am filled with
charity, which is everlasting love; wherefore all chil­
dren arealike unto me; wherefore I love little children
with a perfect love; and they are all alike, and parta­
kers of salvation. For I know that God is not a par­
tial God, neithera changable being; but he is unebang-
able from all eternity to all eternity. Little children
cannot repent; wherefore it is awful wickedness to
deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are
all alive in him because of his mercy. And he that
BOOK OF MOROtft.
eaith that little children need baptism, denietb the
mercies of Christ, and setteth at nought the atonement
of him and the power of his ledemption. Wo unto
such, for they are in danger of death, hell, and an
endless torment. I speak it boldly, God hath com­
manded me. Listen unto them and give heed, or they
stand against you at the judgment seat of Christ.—
For behold that all little children are alive in Christ,
and also ail they that are without the law. For the
power of redemption cometh on all they that have no
law; wherefore, lie that ii$ not condemned, or lie that
is under no condemnation, cannot repent; and unto
such baptism availelh nothing. But it is mockery be­
fore God, denying the mercies of Christ, and the pow­
er of bis holy spirit, and putting trust in dead works.
Behold, my son, this thing ought not to be; for re­
pentance is unto them that are under condemnation,
and under the curse of a broken law. And the first
fruits of repentance is baptism; and baptism cometh
by faith, unto the fulfilling the commandments; and
the fulfilling the commandments bringeth remission of
sins; and the remission of sins bringeth meekness, and
lowliness of heart; and because of meekness and lowli­
ness of heart, cometh the visitation of the Holy Ghost,
which comforter filleth with hope and perfect love,
which love endureth by diligence unto prayer, until
the end shall come, when all the saints shall dwell
witliGod. Behold; my son, I will write unto you
again, if I g o not out soon against the Lamanites.—
Behold, the pride of this nation, or the people of the
Nephites, hath proven their destruction, except they
should repent. Bray for them, my son, that repent­
ance may come unto them. But behold, I fear lest
the spirit hath ceased striving with them; and in this
part of the land they are also seeking to put down all
power and authority, which cometh from God; and
they are denying the Holy Ghost And after reject­
ing so greata knowledge, m
y son, they must perish
soon, «nto the fulfilling of the prophecies which were
spoken bythe prophets, as w
ell asth
ewords of our
Saviorhim
self Farewell, m
yson, until Zshall write
untoyou, or shallraeet youagain. A
m
en,;
614
BOOK o y HO&OKIa 615
CHAPTER IX.
T h e secon d epistle o f M o rm o n to h is so n M oron i.
Mr beloved son, I write onto you again, that ye
may know that I am yet alive; but I write somewhat
that which is grievous. For behold, I have had a sore
battle with the Lamanites, in which we' did not con­
quer; and Archeantus has fallen by the sword, and al-
so>Luram and Emron; yea, and we have lost a great
number of our choice men. And now behold, my eon,
I {ear lest the Lamanites shall destroy this people, for
they do not repent, and satun stirreth them up contin­
ually to anger, one with another. Behold, I am la­
boring with them continually; and when I speak the
word of God with sharpness, they tremble and anger
against me: and when 1 use no sharpness, they har­
den their hearts against it; wherefore i fear lest the
spirit ofthe Lord hath ceased striving with them. For
so exceedingly do they anger, that it seemeth me that
they have no fear of death; and they have lost their
love, one towards another; and they thirst after blood
and revenge continually. And now my beloved son,
notwithstandingtheir hardness, let us labor diligently;
for if we should cease to labor, we should be brought
under condemnation; for we have a labor to perform
whilst in this tabernacle of clay, that we may conquer
the enemy of all righteousness, and rest our souls in
the kingdom of God.
And now I write somewhat concerning the suffer­
ings of this people. For according to the knowledge
which I have received from Amoron, behold, the La-
manites have many prisoners, which they took from
the tower of Sherrizah; and there were men, women
and children. And the husbands and lathers of those
women and children they have slain; and they feed
the women upon the flesh of their husbands, and the
children upon the flesh oftheir lathers; and no water,
save a little, do they give unto them. And notwith­
standing this great abomination of the Lamanites, it
doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum. For
behold, many of the daughters of the Lamanites have
they taken prisoners; and after depriving them of that
which was most dear and precious above all things^
which is chastity and virtue; and alter they bad done
this thing,- they did murder them in a most cruel man­
ner, torturing their bodies even unto death; and after:
616 BOOK OF MORONI*
they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto
wild beasts, because of the hardness of their hearts;
and they do it for a token of bravery. O my beloved
son, how can a people like this, that are without civi­
lization; (and only a few years have passed away, and
they were a civil and a delightsome people;) but O
my son, how can a people like this, whose delight is
in ao much abomination, how can we expect that God
will stay his hand in judgment against us? Behold,
my heart cries wo unto this people. Come out; in
judgment, O God, and hide their sins, and wickedness,
and abominations from before tiiy face. And again,
my son, there are many widows and their daughters,
who remain in Sherrizah; and that,part of the provis­
ions which the Lamanites did not carry away, behold,
the army of Zenephi has carried away, and left them
to wander whithersoever they can for food; and many
old women do faint by the way and die. And the ar­
my which is with me, is weak; and the armies of the
Lamanites are betwixt Sherrizah and me; and as ma­
ny as have fled to the army of Aaron, have fallen vic­
tims to their awful brutality. O the depravity of my
people1 they are without order and without mercy.—
Behold, I am but a man, and 1have but the strength
of a man, and I cannot any longer enforce my com­
mands; and they haye become strong in their perver­
sion; and they are alike brutal, sparing none, neither
old nor young; and they delight in every thing save
that which is good; and the sufferings of our women
and our children upon all the face of this land, doth
exceed every thing; yea, tongue cannot tell, neither
can it be written. And now my son, I dwell no lon­
ger upon this horrible scene. Behold, thou knowest
the wickedness of this people; thou knowest that they
are without principle, and past feeling; and their
wickedness doth exceed that of the Lamanites. Be­
hold, my son, I cannot recommend them unto God
lest he should smite me. Bpt behold, my son, I rec­
ommend thee unto God, and L trust in Christ that
thou wilt hesaved; and 1 pray unto God that hewould
spare thy life, to witness the return of bis people unto
him, or their utter destruction; for 1 know that they
must perish, except they repent and return unto him;
and if they perish it will be like unto the Jnredites, be­
cause of the wilfulness of their hearts, seeking for
bipod and revenge. And if it so be-that they perish,
we know that many of our brethren have dissented
BOOK 0 7 MORONI. 617
over unto the Lamanites, and many more will also
dissent over unto them; wherefore, write somewhat a
few things, if thou art spared; and I shall perish and
not see tbee; but I trust that 1may see thee soon; for
1 have sacred records that 1 would deliver up unto
tbee. My son, be faithful in Christ; and maynot the
things which I have written, grieve thee, to. weigh
thee down unto death, but may Christ lift thee up,
and may his sufferings and death, and the shewing his
body unto our fathers, and his mercy and long suffer­
ing, and the hope of his glory and of eternal fife, rest
in your mind forever. And may the grace of God the
Father, whose throne is high in the heavens, and our
Lord Jesus Christ, who sitteth on the right hand of
his power, until all things shall become subject unto
him, be, and abide with you forever. Amen.
, CHAPTER X.
-v.
Now I, Moroni, write somewhat as seemeth me
good; and I write unto my brethren, the Lamanites;
and 1 would that they snould know that more than
four hundred and twenty years have passed away,
since the sign was given of the coming of Christ.—
And 1 seal up these records, after 1 have spoken a few
words by way of exhortation unto you. Behold, 1
would exhort you that when ye shall read these things
if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that
ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been
unto the children of men, from;the creation of Adam,
even down until the time that ye Bhall receive these
things, and ponder it in your hearts. And when ye
shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye
would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of
^Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall
*ksk with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith
in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by
the power of the Holy Ghost; and by the power of
the Holy Ghost, ye may know the truth of all things.
And whatsoever thing is good, is just and true; where­
fore, nothing that is good denieth the Christ, but ac­
knowledged! that he is. And ye may know that he
z'2 r V '
^ v, ;
618 BOOK O f MORIOK.
is, by the powerof the Holy Ghost; wherefore I would
exhort you, that ye deny not the power of God; for
he worketh by power, according to the faith of the
children of men, the same to-day and to-morrow, and
forever. And again 1 exhort you, my brethren, that
ye deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and
they come from the same God. And there are differ­
ent ways that these gifts are administered; but it is
the same God who worketh all in all; and they are
given by the manifestations of the spirit of God unto
men, to profit them. For behold, to one is given by
the spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wis­
dom; and to another, that he may teach the word of
knowledge by the same spirit; and to another, exceed­
ing great faith; and to another, the gifts of healing by
the same spirit. And again, to another, that he may
work mighty miracles; and again, to another that he
may prophesy concerning all things; and again, to
another, the beholding of angels and ministering spir­
its; and again, to another, all kinds of tongues; and
again, to another, the interpretation of languages and
of divers kinds of tongues. And all these gifts come
by the spirit of Christ; and they come unto every
man severally, according as he will. And 1 would ex­
hort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that
every good gift eometh of Christ. And I would ex­
hort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that
he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever, and that
all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spir­
itual, never will be done away, even as long as tbe
world shall Btand, only according to the unbelief of
the children of men. Wherefore, there must be faith;
and if there must be faith, there must also be hope;
and if there must be hope, there must also be charity;
and except ye have charity, ye can in no wise be sav­
ed in the kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in
the kingdom of God, if ye have not faith; neither can
ye if ye have no hope; and if ye have no hope, ye
must needs be in despair; and despair eometh because,
of iniquity. And Christ truly said unto onr fathers, if
ye have faith, ye can do all things which is expedient
unto me. And now I speak unto all the ends of the
earth, that if the day eometh that the power and gift*
of God shall be done away among you. it shall be be­
cause of unbelief. And wo be unto toe children of
men, if this be the case; for there shall be none that
doeth good among you, no not one. For if there be
BOOK OF MORONI. 619
one among you that doeth good, he shall work by the
power and gifts of God. And wounto them whoshall
do these things away and die, for they die in their
sins, and they cannot besaved in the kingdom of God;
and I speak it according to the words of Christ, and 1
lie not. And 1 exhort you to remember these things;
for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that
1 lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God, and
the Lord God will say unto you, did I not declare my
words unto you, which were written by this man, like
as one crying from the dead? yea, even as one speak­
ing out of the dust? 1 declare these things unto the
fulfilling of the prophecies. And behold, they shall
proceed forth out of the mouth of the everlasting God;
and his word shall hiss forth from generation to gene­
ration. And God shall shew unto you, that that
which I have written, is true. And again I would ex­
hort you, that ye would come unto Christ, and lay
hold upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift,
nor the unclean thing. And awake, and arise from
the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put on thy beautiful
garments, O daughter of Zion, and strengthen thy
stakes, and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou roay-
est no more be confounded, that the covenants of tne
eternal Father whioh he hath made onto thee, Ohouse
of Israel, may be fulfilled. Tea, come unto Christ,
and he perfected in him, and deny yourselves of all un­
godliness, and if ye shall deny yourselves of all un­
godliness, andlove God with all your might, mind and
strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by
his grace ye may be perfect in Christ; and if by the
grace of God ye are perfect in Christ, ye can in no
wise deny the power of God. And again, if ye, by
the grace of God are perfect in Christ, and deny not
his power, then are ye sanctified in Christ by the
8
race of God, through the shedding of the blood of
Ihrist, which is in the covenant of the Father, unto
the remission ofyour sins, that ye become holy with­
out spot. And now I bid unto all, farewell. I soon
go to rest in the paradise of God, until my spirit and
body shall again reunite, and I am brought forth tri­
umphant through the air, to meetyou before the pleas­
ing bar of the great Jehovah, the eternal Judge ofboth
quick and dead Amen.
THE TESTIMONY OF THREE WITNESSES.
Bs it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues,
and people^ unto whom this work shall come, that we,
through the grace of God the Father, and our Lord
Jesus Christ* nave seen the plates which contain this
record, which;Is a record of the people of Nephi, and
also of the Laraanltes, their brethren, and also of the
people of Jared, who came from the tower of which
hath beep spoken; and we also know that they have
been translated by the gift and power of God, for his
voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know of
a surely, that the work is true. And we also testify
that we have seen the engravings which are upon the
plates; and the v have'been shewn unto us by the pow­
er of God, and not of man.. And we declare with
words of soberness, that an angel of God came down
from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes,
that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings
thereon; and weknow that it is by the grace of God
the Father, and our Lord Jesiis Christ, that we beheld
and bear record that these things are true; and it is
marvelous in our eyes, nevertheless, ,the voice of
the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of
it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments
of God, we bear testimony of these things. And we
know that if we are faithful in Christ, w» shall rid our
garments of the blood of all men, and be found spot­
less before the judgment seat#Christ, and shall dwell
with him eternally in the heavens. And the honor be
to the Father, and to the Son, and totheHaly Ghost,
which is one God. Aipen.
OLIVER COWDERY,
DAVID WHITMER,
MARTIN HARRIS.
I
s ' ■
# -
tf
AND ALSO THE TESTIMONY OF EIGHT
WITNESSES.
Bk it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues,
and people, unto whom this work shall come, that Jo­
seph Smith, Jr. the translator of this work, has shewn
unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which
have the appearanceof gold; andas many Oftheleaves
as the said Smith has translated, we did handle with
our hands: and we also saw the engravings thereon,
all of which has the appearance of ancient work, wad
of curious workmanship. And this we bear record
with words of soberness, that the said Smith* baa
shewn unto us, for we have seen andhefted, and know
of a surety, that the said Smith has got the plates of
which we have spoken. And we give our names un­
to the world, to witness unto the world that which we
have seen; and we lie not, God bearing witness of it
T CHRISTIAN WHITMER,
JACOB WHITMER,
* PETER WHITMER, Jr.
JOHN WHITMER, -
HIRAM PAGE,
JOSEPH SMITH, Sen. -J
HYRUM SMITH, * f
SAMUEL H. SMITH, f ■ * ■
« ,
4
TO THE READER.
Contrary to our expectations, when the foregoing
work was commenced, we have been induced to aban-^,
. don the idea of attaching to it the Book of Doctrine
, «'and Covenants. We came to this^conclusion from
- the fact, that the«two connected, would make a vol- s
* ' ume, entirely too unwieldy for the purpose intended,
K * that ofa pocket companion. •$
« . #* T he Publishers.^
*■
v *
