{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1935__amorc___instructions_for_using_the_rosicrucian_dialette.pdf","mytitle":"Instructions For Using The Rosicrucian Dialette","mylang":"de"}
-'V o . £
■Fo l d t-T O U D
,..- \A b. 2 ^ A rro w j
<.................. JYeedle
''-Jfo.l(D ia l)
£ la ss
o f water
jV b .3
JVo.
n
JYo. 4 .
f^ o s /c ru c ia n D ia J e tte IU u s tra £ u ? s ts , C o p y rig h t I9 3 Z b y A M O fic }
' W
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USING THE
ROSICRUCIAN DIALETTE
V
F
IR S T cut out the Dialette by cutting on the dotted
line on the outer edge.
Secondly, cut out the arrow and the other strip
of cardboard, No. 2, and No. 3, by cutting on the
outer dotted edge of each.
Then stick an ordinary sewing needle through the
center hole of the Dialette, letting the needle project
up above the Dialette about one-half or three-quarters
of an inch.
Place the Dialette on an ordinary drinking glass
filled with ordinary water to a point that will touch
the needle. Slightly fold the arrow No. 2 at the place
indicated, and balance it on the needle at the point
where it is folded. If the arrow does not balance so
that it rises at both ends freely from the Dialette,
cut off a little of the arrow at the heaviest end so it
will balance.
The piece of paper marked No. 3 when folded and
balanced on the needle illustrates an old experiment
performed years ago to demonstrate the power of will.
It is used in the same manner as Arrow No. 2.
The arrow No. 2 is our modern form of this ex­
periment. By putting the glass of water and Dialette
on the table, and standing a book, or cardboard screen
in front of it so that your breath will not affect it,
you should concentrate your eyes upon the arrow, or
balanced piece of paper, and use your will power
to make the arrow or paper turn around on the needle
until it points to different figures on the Dialette.
Be sure that your breath or no currents of wind in
the room are affecting the arrow. You can prove to
yourself how much will power and concentrated mind
power are radiated through your eyes by testing the
laws with this Dialette. Sometimes five minutes of
concentration is necessary before the arrow will move.
Many persons can make it
move part way around the
Dialette, and with practice it can
be moved half w ay or nearly all the
way. Some persons have more power of
mind than others. This experiment will enable
you to tell whether your will power is developed
strongly, or not. The Rosicrucian instructions and
teachings enable you to develop the will power so
that many marvelous things can be done with this
great mental energy that is possessed by all human
beings.
By putting your hands around the glass of water
and shielding your face from any currents or breath
that might affect the paper on the needle, you may
be able to magnetically affect the water, and thus
help the paper or the needle to respond. Let others
in your family, and among your friends try
this experiment. It is an interesting pas­
time, and involves many scientific prin­
ciples which you should understand,
and which can serve you in
many practical ways.
P R I N T E D IN U . S . A .
