{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__warner___quacks.pdf","mytitle":"Quacks","mylang":"de"}
QUACKS
By
CHAS. W. \VARNER
Charles
"
SEVENTH PRINTING
REVISED AND ENLARGED
CHAS. W. WARNER
JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI
1934
Copyright 1930
CHAS. W. WARNER
Jackson, Mississippi
Second Printing October. 1930
Third Printing October. 1931
Fourth Printing March, 1932
Fifth Printing October. 1932
Sixth Printing July, 1933
Seventh Printing July, 1934
Tquj?
This Book Is Dedicated to
Man's Best Friend
The Family Doctor
PREFACE
"Quacks" is not in any sense a defense of "Reg
ular Medicine," "State Medicine," or the "Medical
Trust," and no organization or society is in any
way responsible for it.
I am writing it on my own initiative, and will
have it printed at my own expense. The profits,
if there are profits, will be my own, The loss—if
there is a loss—will likewise be my own.
I shall not expect the book to become popular
with Cults and Quacks, or that class of Public Offi
cials who are on the Quack pay rolls.
I am prepared to meet such opposition as I ex
pect to come from those Newspapers and Maga
zines which are deriving revenue from Quack ad
vertisements.
For the benefit of any and all persons who may—
and will—threaten legal action, my name and ad
dress are given herewith.
CHAS. W. WARNER,
Jackson, Mississippi.
June 15, 1930
PREFACE TO THIRD PRINTING
The first edition of every book is an experiment,
in many instances a disappointment and a loss
After the first edition of a book has been sold
and a few hundred critics have paid their respects
to it, the author of the book has a fair idea of its
merits.
It is indeed gratifying to the author of "Quacks"
to know that the first printing was quickly sold,
and that the second printing lasted only a few
months. I have had many reviews, many criti
cisms, many suggestions. I have been reminded
that Solomon did not write the book of Ecclesias-
tes, that Moses did not write the book of Levit
icus and that Blackstone did not write the laws
of England, and no witches were ever burned in
Boston. Several established facts in history did
not suit critics.
However, all of the items under discussion are
reproduced in the third printing. Much new matter
has been submitted, some of which is added to
the book, by adding one line to the bottom of
each page, and moving forward top lines from the
following page.
Some typographical errors, left in intention
ally, to stimulate criticism and promote publicity
have been corrected.
Oct. 20, 1931
CHAS. W. WARNER,
Jackson, Mississippi
PREFACE TO SEVENTH EDITION
Any book which goes through six printings in
four lean years must have some merit. There have
been additions and corrections to each edition.
Twice, I have added one line to each page, making
the page 32 lines, in Seventh edition instead of 30
lines in First edition. Many honest letters have
come to me from "Ex quacks," and many flagrant
cases of Quackery have been reported.
CHAS. W. WARNER,
Jackson, Mississippi
July 20, 1934
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter Page
Introduction 9
2 Why People Patronize Quacks 19
3 Treating Human Ailments 33
4 Religion and Quackery in the U. S 43
5 Acquiring Medical Degrees 61
6 The Medical Trust 67
7 Selling Quackery 79
8 Bernarr Macfadden 87
9 Chiropractic 97
10 Osteopathy 125
11 Christian Science 157
12 Aimee Semple Macpherson 179
CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
"Of a making of books there is no end."
This statement was made by a very wise gentle
man, named Solomon, while engaged in writing
a book for posterity, several thousand years ago.
Solomon's books were produced without the aid
of typewriters, linotypes and labor unions; and
are still among our best sellers.
Solomon's views on the subject were fully en
dorsed by another wise gentleman named Joshua
Billings, who also wrote books, while serving out
his probation on earth.
Joshua said, "Originality in writing is played
out."
The writer of this book makes little claim for
originality. The facts brought out in this book are
quite well understood by Physicians, the younger
Osteopaths, Christian Science Healers and other
persons of average intelligence. However, I have
tried to avoid the use of medical terms and scien
tific language, which might be confusing to the
victims of the Cults, and to the general public.
The older Osteopaths, Chiropractors and lay
followers of Christian Science, being below the
10 QUACKS
average intelligence, may consider themselves as
being wronged.
For their benefit, I will state that Courts of
Justice have been established for persons who have
been injured. I have many facts which can only be
established in a Court of Justice, and can submit
them before any judicial tribunal. Also, the pub
licity incidental to a suit in a court of law will
assist materially in selling the book.
This small volume is based on the abstract state
ment of facts. Being compact there is not suffi
cient space to go into detail about any particular
case or any particular form of quackery.
Whole volumes —large volumes —have been de
voted to discussion of single cults, hence to cover
several of them in a single, small volume, requires
careful consideration of space.
For thirty years the writer has handled com
modities which brought him into close personal
contact with the members of the Medical Profes
sion. Early in the game, I learned of the wolves
in sheep's clothing, who prey on the sick and the
credulous. One of the first cases which impressed
me was a cancer, on the cheek of a mechanic. His
shopmates donated money to send him to a quack
who guaranteed a cure. A few weeks later the
same shopmates collected money to bury him.
I have seen and investigated thousands of simi
lar cases, at my own expense and on my own
time. I have never been too busy to investigate
anything which seemed new in the line of quack
INTRODUCTION 11
ary, and have accumulated and preserved all of
the literature available.
I have listened to "sales talks" in offices of
Christian Science Healers. I have encouraged
Osteopaths to explain to me, that the human body
was a machine and could be readjusted.
I have hob-nobbed with Chiropractors, paid them
for spinal adjustments, visited their colleges and
acquired quite a bit of Chiropractic literature.
While most of the literature above mentioned
is filed away and indexed, I found it very difficult
to select data and condense it into a two-hundred
page book. Every statement which I use has been
carefully verified. I have spent weeks verifying
material for a single page, and in some instances
have spent weeks on matter, and discarded it for
want of space, or lack of authenticity.
Two chapters of the book as originally planned,
one on Pood Quackery and one on Birth Control,
were omitted because the book had grown out of
its proposed proportions and a chapter on Albert
Abrams was omitted because his theories have
passed into the discard.
From both Osteopaths and Chiropractors I have
heard many pathetic stories from men whose time
and money have been wasted on false doctrines.
During recent years, Metchinkoff, Horace Fletch
er, Eugene Sandow, Eugene Christian, Pastor Rus-
sel, Dowie, and Walter Camp, have all advanced
the theory that by following certain proceedures,
12 QUACKS
which each man outlined, ordinary persons might
expect to reach the age of 100 years.
Not one of these worthies reached the age of
seventy years, but their theories made interest
ing reading, and many converts.
Of course, many honest persons have been tricked
into studying Osteopathy, Chiropractic, or kindred
absurd theories. Many of these honest persons
learn of the deception practiced, and forsake the
absurd theories. That is, they are "sold" on a the
ory or dogma. Later they learn that the theory
or dogma is false, and that they have simply been
"sold." However, the chance to make easy money
keeps many of them in the Cult.
Both the Osteopathic and Chiropractic Cults
make special rates to couples. The husband and
wife, who take their savings to pay tuition get
cut rates. Osteopaths and Chiropractic firms often
consist of husband and wife. One member of the
firm wears trousers, the other skirts. A superficial
study of these firms will often indicate that the
parties should swap clothing, as the "skirts" nearly
always dominate the trousers.
This is probably due to the fact that the woman
member of the firm decides on the "profession,"
the man follows her suggestion.
A large part of the women who become Osteo
paths, or Chiropractors are strong-minded women
who are infiuenced to study late in life. If they
are married they take their husbands to school
with them. If they are unmarried they pick a mate
INTRODUCTION 13
from their classmates, and subdue him, but often
allow him to think that he is the senior member of
the firm, even though he is a non entity.
Many meek, demure women, with ambitious
husbands, go to the college towns with them, and
get a job to support themselves, or contribute to
their husband's schooling.
The large, heavily upholstered woman who fol
lows Christian Science or New Thought, has nearly
always brought her husband under subjection, or
separated from him.
Women being more sentimental than men are
more easily overcome by sentiment. Religions —
old and new—always include more women than
men. The Mormons adopted polygamy to provide
husbands for their surplus women. Women are
more easily overcome by dogmas and emotions
than men. Enthusiasm, as evidenced by Cult lit
erature, is aimed at women. Men write the litera
ture and women accept it.
It is interesting to note that Ann Lee, Mary
Baker Eddy, Aimee Simple Macpherson, Madame
Blavatsky, Benj. Parnell, Pastor Russell and Brig-
ham Young were all very lax in their domestic
relations. None of them seemed to take marriage
seriously.
In a few oases throughout the book the same
statement has been used a second or even a third
time. This was done purposely, by way of empha
sis and to make each chapter complete in itself,
to be reproduced and sold as a pamphlet.
14 QUACKS
It will be apparent that one purpose of the book
is to show that every quack has borrowed or stolen
his ideas from other quacks, even when the thief
claimed to be divinely inspired. Long hair, whis
kers, total abstenance and contempt for dead bodies,
go back 4,000 years to the Nazarites, but Cult leaders
still introduce these ideas as being direct revela
tions.
It will also be apparent that the writer discusses
"Quackery" as a violation of the law. Every state
has laws regulating the treatment of human ail
ments. (See p. 72.)
These laws are enacted to conserve and preserve
the health of its citizens. The first duty of any
government is to protect the health of its sub
jects. The government must regulate the health
of the whole people, for the good of the whole
people is the chief object of government.
A man or woman who treats human ailments
without permission from the State government, is
simply a violator of the law, who robs the public
under the pretense of curing.
The holdup man robs one with a six-shooter
and merely takes ready cash. The Quack robs
under pretense of divine authority, takes the ready
cash and sends the victim out to borrow more
money.
Crime is our largest business with an annual
turnover of sixteen billion dollars.
Like other criminals, the Quack has a slush fund
INTRODUCTION 15
to corrupt legislators, and to buy, bribe or intimi
date public officers.
Investigations in many states show that "Quack
ery" thrives with the consent of officers charged
with the duty of enforcing the laws.
Many public officials, charged with the duty of
enforcing the law, find themselves handicapped by
the influence of persons "higher up", owners of
property and newspaper sentiment.
Many apparently "sell out" or accept tribute
from criminals.
Officers of the law have material wants and can
use more money than that represented by their
salaries.
They have children to educate. They have wives
and daughters with social ambitions. They may
expect to be candidates for re-election or for some
other office. A lobbyist or diplomat or "fixer" soon
learns, who can be handled with cash.
The best paid, most smoothly running lobby
which has ever existed is probably that maintained
by the Christian Scientists in Washington, em
ployed to furnish or to suppress publicity. As they
are oath bound no one knows what they are paid.
Christian Scientists also have "under cover"
workers, running around like Satan in the book
of Job "Seeking what they may devour." Their
duties are suppressing unfavorable literature, find
ing prospects for healers and soliciting bequests
for the church.
16 QUACKS
Osteopaths and Chiropractors have lobbists who
are paid as much as $1,000 per week.
Like the Christian Science lobby they are moved
from state to state as expediency demands. A
couple of New Orleans Chiropractors fought their
case through the Supreme Court of the United
States; lost it in every court and had enough
money left to buy pardons.
A Chicago quack has been tried three times for
a murder committed four years ago. The first
verdict was a death sentence, the second was im
prisonment for life, the third was one year in the
state prison. A fourth trial is pending
Judging the future by the past we may expect
him to be acquitted and given a medal, if his money
holds out.
Aimee Semple Macpherson paid $100,000 to cer
tain "fixers" who had influence enough to have
charges of conspiracy dismissed without coming
to trial.
Under cover agents of Cults are able to suppress
matter unfavorable to themselves while said matter
is being transported in U. S. mail, seeming to think
that their allegiance to their cult is above their
obligation as employees of the mail service.
This book is not in any sense a criticism of re
ligion. The writer, since childhood has been a
member of an orthodox church and has always
tried to live up to its teachings. A man's religion
is a part of our American freedom. No difference
what a man's religion is, he is a better man be
INTRODUCTION 17
cause of his religion, and every fair minded man
must respect the religion of his fellow men. How
ever, I found it impossible to discuss Osteopathy
and Chiropractic without discussing Shakerism
and Mormonism and Seventh Day Adventism.
In fact the Osteopaths show the same reverence
for A. T. Still, and the Chiropractors show the same
reverence for B. J. Palmer, which the Mormons show
Joseph Smith, or the Christian Scientists show for
Mary Baker Eddy.
The chapter on Christian Science is not a crit
icism of religion. Christian Science is not a re
ligion. It is a highly organized, highly profitable
system of quackery, using a religious title to avoid
legal provisions regulating the practice of medi
cine.
Aimee Semple Macpherson's so-called religion is
merely a one-ring circus.
The writer assumes full responsibility for any
and all parts of the book. Any honest person, who
desires any facts, pertaining to the book, will be
given all possible information.
Two years ago when Chiropractic legislation was
pending in Mississippi, I read a paper before a
legislative committee. At the suggestion of a mem
ber of this committee, this was printed in a bulle
tin, "Chiropractic, the Great American Joke," re
produced in this book. In eighteen months I issued
four printings of this bulletin, the last issue being
one hundred thousand copies. Meanwhile, I fur
nished material on Osteopathy, to be used by the
13 QUACKS
State of Washington, which is also reproduced in
this book.
As the major cults are quite extravagant in the
use of propaganda, I have tried to follow their
literature, have bought, borrowed and begged their
sacred writings. It has been possible to construct
good criticisms at their expense. Other data was
acquired by visiting their headquarters, at my own
expense. To get the chapter on Aimee Semple
McPherson, I spent four months in California and
ten days in Providence. Rhode Island. I also
made a trip to Douglass, Arizona, where Aimee
came back to publicity after six weeks of oblivion.
A month's sojourn in the State of Washington
showed so little originality in the Sanipractice Cult
that I did not consider it worth using.
If possible this book will be sold to the retail
book trade. However, the various cults have "un
der cover" workers who may prevent this.
If the book sells, it must sell on its own merits,
and some method will be devised to meet the de
mand for it.
CHAPTER II
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS
A well-known Medical Dictionary defines a quack
as "One who makes a false claim to Medical Knowl
edge, or one who makes a fraudulent promise of
a cure."
It is a sad commentary on American tolerance
and American credulity that such a large propor
tion of our people, fall for unlicensed, ignorant and
purely commercial individuals and institutions of
absolute quackery. It can all be understood by
considering one clause, "The fraudulent promise of
a cure."
The gullibility of mankind is the most insoluble
factor in the efforts to solve the quack problem.
The quack exists not because there are always
men crooked enough to become quacks, but because
there are so many persons who are foolish enough
to believe these crooks. From the beginning of
time, man has been expecting to find a gospel of
physical salvation, some magic process to relieve
him of physical disabilities. Every person who is
diseased or disabled expects to find a cure, invalids
are always hoping, always praying for health, the
element of hope is always present. This makes
quackery possible and profitable.
An honest, ethical physician must sometimes
20 QUACKS
tell a patient that he has an incurable ailment. To
the physician this is an unpleasant duty. To the
public it is a trifling incident. To the patient and
his family, it is a tragedy. No one can blame a
man with a fatal ailment for trying anything,
which promises a cure, or even relief. Hence, he
becomes a subject for any form of quackery. Un
til he dies, or his money gives out, the quacks keep
after him. They advertise for him, giving bogus
testimonials of healing. They buy his name from
other quacks who have taken every possible dollar
from him. They pay preachers for lists of chronic
sufferers. Having located him, they get him lined
up for "a cure," paid for in advance. No quack
will bother a man who has no money. The victim
is sent out to borrow money if he has none of his
own, leaving his widow or family to pay the loan
after the undertaker has laid him away.
There are in the United States more than six
million deaf or partially deaf persons. Half of
these are children of school age, whose doting
parents will go hungry, if necessary, to pay for
a cure. Every form of Quackery includes a fraudu
lent promise of a cure for deafness, and the vic
tim is passed along from one Quack to another.
And every form of Quackery has six million pros
pects in patients among the deaf.
(In sales talks the word prospect is used instead
of victim.)
There are five million ruptured people in the
United States. Nearly all of these could be cured
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS 21
by an operation, no other treatment is successful.
Yet the dread of an operation and the fraudulent
promise of a cure sends these persons to the quack.
There are always more than 1,000,000 tubercu
lous persons in the United States. Many of them
will live to a ripe old age, or die of other ailments.
More than 100,000 of them will die every year; and
they will die between the ages of 15 and 30, when
life is sweet. Every young person who is under
weight or has a cough is afraid of tuberculosis, and
is an excellent prospect for Quackery.
There are almost one-half million persons in the
United States who have epilepsy. The cause of
this ailment is unknown and treatment accom
plishes little. It is a chronic ailment and is seldom
fatal. Julius Caesar, Saint Paul, Mohammed, Na
poleon, Joan of Arc, and Mary Baker Eddy, all had
epilepsy, and all of them died of some other ail
ment. Every form of quackery offers a fraudulent
promise of a cure for epilepsy. In fact, one of the
favorite easy marks for the quack is epilepsy. Par
ents of an epileptic child are always willing to try
any form of treatment, and will make financial
sacrifices to pay for it.
Because the nature and origin of Cancer are
little understood, quacks reap a rich harvest. They
are often successful in making people believe they
have cancer when they do not and then convince
them that they have been cured.
Being first thoroughly alarmed, and later assured
of a cure, these persons are glad to sign endorse
22 QUACKS
ments of the quack, which are used to trap new
victims.
In its early stages nearly every cancer will re
spond to surgical treatment. A few months delay
for quack treatment may carry the case to a point
where surgery is of no avail.
In 1928, 115,000 persons died of Cancer in the
United States. The average duration of cancer is
four years, hence, there are always a half-million
persons affected with a fatal form of cancer.
In addition to these, there are many abnormal,
foreign growths which are not dangerous and do
not result fatally, but which are easily confused
with Cancer. Hence, we may say there are always
a million people living in the United States who
have some foreign growth and the fear of Cancer
always before them. Can any one blame them for
trying anything which offers a ray of hope?
When the followers of Albert Abrams announ
ced a cure for Cancer, patients almost stood in
line waiting to be treated.
In nearly every community, some quack, usually
an Osteopath, reaped a rich harvest, charging $200
to $1000 in advance, for the fraudulent guarantee
of a cure. Many cancer patients borrowed the
money to pay these vultures (see p. 57, p. 130) .
There are three million babies born in the
United States every year.
Three million prospects for any Nostrum or
Quack which promises an easy delivery. One mil
lion women pass the Menopause each year.
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS 23
While Pregnancy and the Menopause are purely
normal, physiological processes, women cannot be
criticised for trying to avoid pain and complica
tions.
The elderly male citizen has always been much
concerned about his waning physical powers. The
Mythology of the Greeks includes the story of a
witch who rejuvenated old men by boiling them
overnight.
The legends of all nations includes the story
of the old man, who made a compact with the
devil, agreeing to do certain "dirty work" in ex
change for eternal youth, Solomon, with all of
his wisdom, forsook the religion of his fathers,
for the erotic religions of the Phoenicians, when
his physical powers began to wane.
The old man with money is a shining mark for
the Quack with the fraudulent promise of a reju
venation.
Practically every form of Quackery includes re
juvenation, besides there are special drugs, special
processes and special operations. At the time this
book goes to press, a Quack is broadcasting over
the radio the information that for $1000 payable in
advance he will transplant goat glands to a palsied
old man in his second childhood and send him
home on a child's velocipede.
One old man telegraphed in his one thousand
dollars, and afterwards became quite indignant be
cause the Federal authorities would not get his
thousand dollars back.
Of course, it is bad to take the old man's $1000,
24 QUACKS
but it is worse to ruin a perfectly good goat. While
there is no statistics available there are probably
ten million prospects for these forms of Quackery,
or would be if the ten million subjects had money.
The lack of ready money makes any person safe
from Quackery,
There are ten million bald heads in the United
States, varying all the way from a receding fore
head or a small spot on the crown, to a broad ex
panse of shining dome. Baldness is not a disease ;
it does not involve pain or suffering, or even in
convenience. Civilized man does not need hair
and in time all men will be bald.
There goes with baldness, a spirit of optimism
sufficient to make a fat man with a bald head a
good prospect for Quackery. Nearly all forms
of Quackery include the growth of hair. Chris
tian Science, Aimee Semple McPherson, A. T. Still
and B. J. Palmer, all tell of growing hair on bald
heads. Also there are forms of Quackery which
specialize on bald-headed men. (Women do not
buy remedies for baldness —they buy hair.)
This is one form of quackery which does no
harm, the person is not injured, or benefited.
All old people, and many young ones are trou
bled with a stiffening of the joints usually called
Rheumatism. There are over 300 cures for Rheu
matism, most of them gauranteed and backed by
testimonials from the cured.
Many persons afflicted with Rheumatism, con
tinue to use canes or crutches when they no longer
need them. Often we hear of such persons, during
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS 25
a fire or other excitement, making a speedy get
away without crutches. This class makes a shining
mark for quackery. Out of every 10 persons with
lame legs who use crutches, two or three can walk
alone if convinced that crutches are unnecessary.
This accounts for the piles of crutches shown by
exploiters of Nostrums and Quackery.
Many persons are overweight or underweight.
This may be a family characteristic. Some fam
ilies are fat and members of these families will
run true to form and to fat. Other families are
thin and members will remain thin. Some families
are blondes or some are brunettes, some are tall,
some are short, and no nostrum or quack can
change them. However, the spirit of optimism
in fat folks makes them believe that some mysteri
ous drug or process will put them in the light
weight class.
Twenty million people wear glasses. The glim
worker advertises "Eyes Tested Free," and many
persons who have slightly defective vision are
frightened into wearing glasses, to avoid the inevi
table blindness which the aforesaid glim worker
sees ahead of them.
We are over-glassed, hence, another form of
Quackery offers "perfect sight without glasses" and
takes the glasses from folks who never needed
glasses. One Quack simply undoes the work of the
other, the patient may not be injured, or benefited,
by either, and money is kept in circulation by both
procedures.
26 QUACKS
Some years ago, a very wealthy man in New
York named Chas. B. Rouse, lost his sense of sight.
His physicians assured him that he was perma
nently blind, but he offered one million dollars to
any one who could restore his vision. Quacks and
cures poured in, all of them wanting the million.
So many cures were submitted that Mr. Rouse
could not try all of them, so he found another man
with exactly the same form of blindness, and paid
him a salary to let the cures be tried on him. Both
of them remained blind until death.
When Freedman came to the United States with
his turtle serum for tuberculosis, a wealthy man
named Paris, whose son was tubercular, agreed
to pay Freedman a million dollars for curing the
son. The son was under the care an ethical Doc
tor and refused to try Freidman's turtle serum.
He recovered without it, hence, Freidman lost the
million dollars and at least another million dollars
worth of publicity.
In his "Leaves of Healing," Dowie said:
"I lay my hands on 70,000 people each year and
pray for them."
In the two and one-half years immediately pre
ceding this statement Dowie's followers reported
700 cures, or about one cure in each 250 persons.
As Dowie pushed collections he must have gotten
at least 200 contributions for each cure. Much
publicity was given the one cure, nothing said
about the 249 failures —a common trait of Quack
ery.
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS 27
The stock argument of the Quack is personal
liberty. "A man's ailment and his selection of treat
ment is his own business." Unfortunately for this
argument, the laws of various states provide for
quarantine regulations and have laws governing
disease.
Diphtheria, a highly contagious, highly fatal ail
ment, is quarantined, and made reportable in every
state in the Union. In the last decade of the nine
teenth century when the population of the United
States was about half what it is now, 40,000 chil
dren died each year with diphtheria. Now we
know that the prompt use of anti-toxin is a cure.
In spite of this, Quacks and their dupes resist agen
cies other than their own brand of Quackery, oth
erwise diphtheria could be abolished within a year.
Vaccination for small pox is fought in the name
of "Personal Liberty." Men who make, sell, buy or
use intoxicants, talk of "Personal Liberty" when
the Federal Government sends them to Atlanta or
Leavenworth. Many women contend that Personal
Liberty should permit abortions. Men who shoot
game out of season, or on private property try to
hide behind "Personal Liberty." Personal Liberty
does not permit a man to violate a law or commit
a fraud. A very large percentage of Quacks hide
behind religion to avoid the law.
No Quack is a perfect Quack without a pre
tense of religion. Deprive him of religion and you
. deprive him of his strongest sales talk. In that
respect the Quack differs from the Bootlegger,
28 QUACKS
Poacher and Abortionist. Religion is not regu
lated by law, until it interferes with the rights
of the public. A religious enthuisast who goes with
out clothing, or tries to offer human sacrifices, or
violates the laws of sanitation, is apt to learn that
his religious activities may be limited, in spite of
Personal Liberty.
The first duty of any government is to protect
the lives and health of its subjects. A man who
dies or becomes an invalid in the prime of life is
an economic loss. According to United States sta
tistics the average earnings of a man in his prime
are slightly less than $2000 per year. If his life
and health is prolonged ten years his earnings
would be $20,000. The government estimate of
loss from preventable deaths alone in the nation's
wage earnings is six billion dollars per year. The
loss of time from sickness is even larger than this
with three billion dollars more for treatment.
Our greatest economic waste is loss of time from
sickness. A temporary or partial disability pre
vents a man or woman from securing or holding
a "steady job." (see p. 72.)
Employers of labor are confronted with the ne
cessity of creating pension funds and sick benefits.
Some employers are good enough to continue
paying wages to persons wholly or partially dis
abled. In every community agencies are established
to help the mothers feed their children properly.
Devoted women nurses furnished by the state or
county instruct mothers in preparing food and car
ing for children.
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS 29
It is easy to understand why our State and Fed
eral governments are concerned about laws reg
ulating Public Health.
The Quack and his Personal Liberty are adver
tised so much that Mr. Average Man sometimes
loses sight of the interest our governments have
in public welfare. No Quack is too ignorant to
boast of his own ability, or to make promises which
persons of average intelligence should know are
false.
During cold, damp weather any community may
have an epidemic of Acute Anterior Poliomyelitis
—commonly called Infantile Paralysis.
Physicians know that treatment is of little value,
the child should be isolated and have absolute rest
in bed.
During nearly every epidemic some ignorant
Chiropractor will advertise, "For $5 cash I will
immunize your child against Infantile Paralysis."
The Physician knows this is a lie, the Chiroprac
tor knows it is a lie, and the Public of average in
telligence knows it is a lie, yet the Chiropractor's
office is filled with parents anxious to throw away
$5, and who will boast of the immunity promised.
Children already stricken are dragged out of
their warm beds, and their little backs almost
broken by the Chiropractic thrust. As only one
child in 500 is likely to be stricken and 95 per cent
of those stricken eventually recover the Chiroprac
tor gets credit for his immunity and his treatment,
and makes it possible for an ignorant Quack, with
80 QUACKS
out conscience and no object except plundering the
sick, to reap a rich harvest, through the fraudu
lent promise of a cure, paid for in advance.
No fraud can be more reprehensible than de
frauding the sick, taking money from the afflicted,
by false pretenses, especially as delay in the proper
treatment of an ailment many carry the patient
past the stage where a cure might be effected. A
self-appointed healer with a commission from the
Diety, not only violates the law, and all principles
of honesty, justice and decency, but gulls the un
suspecting victim with the false hope of a cure,
while the disease reaches the incurable stage. How
ever, there seems to be no limit to human credulity
when a cure is promised.
After a man has investigated and analyzed the
many cures offered, he would hardly be surprised
to hear that the devil had set himself up as a healer
—a sort of gospel roustabout, with healing in his
wings; or that a hospital for insane patients, had
established a school of healing with padded cells
for the faculty.
The human body is a mass of living cells, coordi
nated to function in harmony with each other. A
disturbance of any of these functions brings dis
ease. No person can treat a disease or sympton
without a thorough knowledge of the various or
gans, their functions and their relation to each
other.
The practice of medicine is open to any one who
can meet the requirements. The Medical Profes
WHY PEOPLE PATRONIZE QUACKS 31
sion is governed by laws which are easily under
stood. To treat a disease there must be a diag
nosis. The diagnosis of disease cannot be made
without the knowledge of the functions of the
organ involved.
The Council of Medical Education of the Ameri
can Medical Association, has insisted on a mini
mum standard of education for any all persons
who would treat human ailments. This knowl
edge should include Anatomy, Physiology, Pathol
ogy, Bacteriology, Etiology and Diagnosis. The
only persons who object to this standard are those
whose education is insufficient. No man can be
kept out of the practice of medicine if he can show
that he has sufficient education to diagnose disease,
and no man or no set of men object to any form
of treatment which can be used successfully by
any one having met the requirements.
The same rights and privileges are accorded to
all schools —or systems—of treatment.
The Chiropractor, Osteopath and Christian Sci
entists are not discriminated against, and have
exactly the same right to apply for a license as
the so-called regular Physician.
The statutory provisions regulating the treat
ment of disease are merely intended to protect the
public from ignorant and incompetent pretenders.
There is no real reason why any person wishing
to treat human ailments should object to meeting
the legal requirements, and regulating the treat
ment of disease is within the powers of state au
32 QUACKS
thorities regardless of the methods used in treat
ment.
If a man has sense enough to understand func
tions and diseases he has too much sense to be a
quack unless he is a downright crook. Quacks try
to avoid the use of the words "diagnosis,"
"disease," "treatment," using instead "analysis,"
"error," "adjustment," repeating—like a parrot,
or a phonograph —the sales talk furnished him at
Quack headquarters. A part of this talk is sure to
include "the right of the sick to get well," "the
physicians don't like us because we are curing
their patients," etc. They never neglect to call
themselves Doctors. In fact, the word "Doctor" is
the most coveted possession of the Quack.
I have before me a list of sixteen men using the
title "Doctor" who are accused of committing re
volting crimes —
Not one of them is a Physician.
A Columbus, Ohio "Dr." who was electrocuted for
murder, was a Veterinarian. A wholesale abortion
ist in Oklahoma City was an Osteopath. A Seattle,
Wash., "Dr." in an "eternal triangle," which ended
in murder, was a Sanipractor. A Philadelphia "Dr."
who got a life sentence for murder was a Chiro
practor.
Several of them were druggists, several of them
were peddlers of Nostrums, a couple of them were
Chiropodists, the rest were Osteopaths and Chiro
practors. All called themselves "Doctors" just as a
tadpole might call himself a gold fish, or a tumble
bug call himself a bird of the air.
CHAPTER III
TREATING HUMAN AILMENTS
Treating human ailments has been a good job.
As a rule it has paid well. There is money in it
yet, if properly worked, but each year it is be
coming more difficult to meet the legal require
ments, and do it honestly, or dodge the legal re
quirements and do it dishonestly.
Just when man begun to devise means of re
lieving the sufferings of his fellow men will never
be known. The early achievements of man are
lost in the mists of antiquity; primitive man left
only such records as are preserved in fossils. His
tory can only begin with written records and we
depend on the geologist for the early life and prog
ress of man.
The earliest known writing is a tablet of stone
in the British museum. It is probably 7000 years
old. This is a comparatively recent date, as geolo
gists reckon time. The earliest known code of
laws is that of Hammurabi, First king of all Baby
lon, dating back to about 2500 B. C. Hammurabi
engraved his laws on tablets of stone. He claimed
they were of divine origin, and that they had been
given to him by the Babylonian God, Shuman, "the
god of the sun."
By 2500 B. C. the Babylonians had made con
34 QUACKS
siderable progress in the arts and sciences. They
had a printed language, they had distinguished
the planets from the fixed stars, they had devised a
calendar, with weeks of seven days, named after
the heavenly bodies, which we are still using. They
were well advanced in agriculture, had extensive
systems of irrigation, and were propagating mules.
They were also concerned about some economic
problems, like prostitutes and quack doctors. The
Code of Hammurabi undertook to regulate all these
things. It prescribed what should be a legitimate
fee for doctors, and provided a punishment for mal
practice. The punishment for certain unlawful
acts of doctors was to chop off the doctor's right
hand. This seems like a severe punishment until
we remember that Hammurabi was an Oriental
potentate and could just as easily have chopped
off the doctor's head.
The early treatment of disease was closely asso
ciated with religion. In fact, religion seems to
have grown out of treatment of disease. Primi
tive man's sole concern was his bodily welfare.
He had no property and did not know that he had
a soul.
Self preservation has always been the first law
of nature. Every form of life—including man,
comes into being with the love of life and the fear
of death.
Physical man on this planet has always been a
lonesome creature. He is a castaway isolated
from other inhabited worlds—if there be such—
TREATING HUMAN AILMENTS 35
by millions of miles of untraveled space. He has
been absolutely dependent on his own efforts, for
this world has no imports except meteors, and
no exports since the moon was thrown out of a
cavity now occupied by the Pacific Ocean.
He has domesticated, or made friends with a
few other animals, but most of his fellow creatures
avoid him. He has always had a lurking fear that
his pride might be hurt if he learned just who his
ancestors were. He has no idea from whence he
came, how he got here, or where he is going. The
dumb rocks tells us that man has clung to the
changing earth, dodging glaciers, and running in
pain and terror, before earthquakes, tidal waves,
volcanoes and avalanches for many thousands —
perhaps millions of years. His existence has been
a constant struggle with other men, other animals
and his surroundings. With his limited intelli
gence, primitive man's struggle for existence was
so severe that his time was fully occupied in ob
taining food and shelter.
To supply his physical needs, he picked up and
used whatever was available, provided his right
was not disputed by another, stronger than him
self. He sought shelter in any cave or crevice
which was not occupied. He waded or swam the
streams, and fought his enemies with his hands
and teeth. It probably took him many thousands
of years, to learn to use a club or stone as a
weapon, to cross a stream on a floating log, and
to enlarge or dig a cave to suit himself. Fire
36 QUACKS
probably came to him through lightning; and
adapting fire to his use was one of his first achieve
ments, perhaps his greatest achievement.
Everything in nature meets a violent and prema
ture death.
With the exception of civilized man, and a few
animals which he has domesticated, nothing lives
to a peaceful old age.
Primitive man was no exception.
Having seen his fellows killed by earthquakes,
tornadoes, lightning, famine and pestilence, man
early became impressed by his own insignificance
and the evidence of a power higher than himself.
For his physical protection, man sought the guid
ance and protection of a higher power.
Through the lonely centuries man has tried to
reach and impress, some higher being who could
protect him from bodily harm, tell him of his past
and make some compact for the future. With his
limited perception, man could only conceive of a
god in his own image. His first idol was probably
a meteoric stone bearing some resemblance to a
human form. Here was a tangible, visible evidence
of a god. Since then man has learned to make
his own gods. With his fingers, growing defter
as the ages passed, man has made a long proces
sion of gods, gods of clay, gods of stone, gods of
wood, gods of gold. He has bowed before them,
praying for the guidance that never came. He
considered the sun, regarding it as the giver of
light and life. He came to know the seasons, and
TREATING HUMAN AILMENTS 37
to understand planting and harvest, but could not
learn the meaning of his probation on earth. He
expressed his ideas in a crude way on the walls of
his cave home. His carvings, his idols, his earthen
mounds, and his stone pillars still delight and mys
tify the archeologists.
The fiash of lightning, the eclipse of the sun,
the fury of the tornado were the manifestations
of a God, perhaps the manifestations of the wrath
of an angry God. The legends of all primitive
races indicate the belief that all calamities, war,
famine and sickness were direct visitations of
Providence, sent as a punishment or as a warn
ing.
Unless pressed by hunger, primitive man proba
bly selected certain foods in preference to others.
Being carnivorous, he preferred the fiesh of the
larger, stronger animals. Many primitive races
refuse to eat the rabbit, fearing that the flesh will
make them timid and cowardly. The flesh of the
bear was desirable, giving the strength and cour
age of the bear.
The skin of the dead bear was worn as a trophy,
also for protection, and to impress his fellowmen.
Massage probably begun by man rubbing himself
with bear grease to gain the strength of the bear.
The grease from the serpent was used that man
might become supple like the serpent —snake oil is
still exploited as a cure for rheumatism. The bear's
claws and teeth were worn as a talisman—pro
tection —rather than as an ornament.
38 QUACKS
The figure of the serpent became the universal
talisman, and later the symbol of healing—often
two, sometimes three serpents were intertwined
on a staff, rod or pillar. The Aesculapian staff, ana
Caduceus of Mercury (or Hermes) carried two
serpents.
The Serpentine Pillar, some 20 feet tall, taken
from the Persians by the Greeks about 500 B. C,
is still standing at Constantinople, carries three
serpents.
The brazen serpent raised by Moses in the wil
derness was a talisman against bodily harm, and
not an object of worship, as the Jews were forbid
den to worship images.
It is easy to understand how nations bordering
on the Mediteranean sea might all use the figure
of the serpent, but it is not so easy to account for
the Serpent Mound in Ohio and the winged ser
pents inscribed on many of the Aztec ruins. The
Aesculopian staff is still the emblem of the medi
cal profession. Our Mexican friends have the ser
pent on their coins, and the United States uses it
for the $ mark. It is easy to understand how the
sale or barter of talismen begun. A mighty hun
ter with more bear claws and teeth than were nec
essary for his own safety might trade them for
other things. No doubt the efficiency of these tal
ismen was a matter of considerable satisfaction to
the wearer.
The trade in talismen, amulets or charms opened
a medium of barter from which developed the use
TREATING HUMAN AILMENTS 39
of metal pieces for coin. Talismen were valuable
and were preserved. As they accumulated, these
objects of veneration led to the establishment of
shrines. The priests and healers of Egypt were the
custodians of the sacred charms and shrines.
These priests and healers were paid from the
public treasury and received no fees from patients.
The first school of medicine in the world was
established in Egypt as an adjunct to a shrine—
afterward called a museum. The writings of Moses,
the first man to write history indicate that the
ancient Egyptians had ideas of sanitation which
are still good. The family patriarch who had many
wives, was the tribal authority, religious leader
and healer, passed his charms and his authority
along to his successor —usually his oldest son, by
laying on of hands. The authority of the tribal
leader was probably an established condition be
fore the human family developed a spoken lan
guage and the authority of the tribal leader was
absolute, and seldom disputed.
From the tribal leaders came magicians, priests,
healers and chiefs, and among all primitive peo
ples, religion and healing were closely associated.
The prophets of Israel were not only priests and
healers, but were health officers, to whom the sick
reported. Pasting and prayers were required from
the sick. Japan still has temples of healing where
the sick go to fast and pray. As many ailments
are due to excessive eating, it is easy to understand
that rest and fasting are important factors in
40 QUACKS
cures. The United States is the first country where
religion and healing were definitely separated from
government. As the civilization of the Arabs,
Greeks and Egyptians progressed, Medicine grad
ually became a science, and for 10,000 years every
generation and every nation has added to it.
Every science has its parasites, just as every
dog has his fleas.
Astronomy has had a hard time fighting astrol
ogy. Chemistry has always fought alchemy; and
Medicine is still fighting its 10,000-year old battle
with Quackery. Every new condition and every
new discovery brings its Quackery, and Quacks are
very quick to use new ideas.
For a long time the kings of England were sup
posed to cure certain ailments by laying on of
hands. The king, having divine authority, was
supposed to have divine power and certain ailments
were called "King's evils."
When Oliver Cromwell disolved the long parlia
ment in 1653 and became the temporary ruler, he
made no claim to divine authority or healing. Al
most immediately came one Valentine Greatrakes,
who announced that he had been commissioned
by the Holy Ghost to touch and heal sufferers. His
commission was not in writing, even if it had
been, few of the English people could have read
it, and his authority was not disputed. He went
on record as the most spectacular Quack England
has ever had.
Shortly after this Emanuel Swedenborg, also a
TREATING HUMAN AILMENTS 41
British subject, established the system of Theoso-
phy or Mysticism, which bears his name. Sweden-
borg differed from other cultists in the sense that
he was a highly educated man, and that he did
not commercialize his theories. Owing to the high
order of Swedenborg's theories, they never became
popular, but for three hundred years every form
of Quackery has drawn from the ideas of both
Greatrake and Swedenburg. When Franklin first
harnessed the lightning and the use of electricity
was slightly understood the Quacks pounced on it,
under the name of Galvanism. Any device which
carried enough electrical current to make it buzz,
was worth a fortune. Practically all of them were
worthless as the current never went beyond the
apparatus.
One generation ago Quacks reaped a rich har
vest with so-called electrical devices, merely a
chemical battery hardly strong enough for a flash
light. Later specimens are Abram's Oscilloclast
and Palmer's Neuracalometer, neither of which
had any potency and both of which made fortunes.
The X-ray, while of some value, has been abused
shamefully. In the hands of a pathologist or an
intelligent physician, the X-ray is used success
fully, both in diagnosis and in treatment. But in
the hands of an ignorant charlatan, an X-ray ap
paratus is about as useful as a Morse telegraph
outfit would be in the hands of an illiterate negro.
In studying Quackery, in all ages we find that
the Healer has always made false claims of super
42 QUACKS
natural Power, and supernatural knowledge. Usu
ally this has come directly to him through divine
revelation, often in a dream or "vision."
Religions, Creeds and Cults come and go. They
are quickly adopted by neurotics, hypochondriacs
and malcontents of various kinds ready to try
and recommend anything. About three fourths of
these proselytes are influential females with
money, leisure, morbidity and zeal. A large part
of the other fourth are males of the long haired
spiritual type.
Cults of the present day may be considered as
a part of our organized Crime.
Just now, the largest and most profitable busi
ness in the United States is crime. Our annual
crime budget is Sixteen Billion Dollars.
Organized Quackery can — and does — control
legislatures, dominates judges, courts and prose
cuting attorneys and side-tracks justice.
It has money to buy pardons from governors of
States.
Many Ministers and many Editors are muzzled
because a part of their support comes from Quack
ery.
CHAPTER IV
RELIGION AND QUACKERY IN UNITED STATES
It is impossible to consider Quackery apart from
Cultism, disguised as Religion.
Apparently no Quack has conscience enough to
prevent him from hiding behind religion. Usually
this religion is dogmatic and is advanced as a di
rect revelation. It must be accepted as a revela
tion without exception or qualification. Any one
not accepting the whole dogma is not recognized
as a member of the cult, such members fre
quently have revelations and see visions and start
another religion.
The religious ideas of the early colonists were
well defined and rigid. The teachings of John
Calvin, Whitfield and Jonathan Edwards made lit
tle allowances for lapses.
The pilgrim fathers came here "to worship God
according to the dictates of their conscience." How
ever, they made little allowance for the other fel
low's conscience, and in a short time they were
burning witches, hanging Quakers and cutting off
ears of religious offenders. Pioneering in every age
has involved hard work, privations and self de
nials, and only yielded a meager living.
One English colony at Roanoke, Va., vanished
entirely within one year, and no one knows the
44 QUACKS
fate of the 200 colonists who composed the colony.
It took a long time to establish a civilization in the
wilderness. The grand children of the first colo
nists were still struggling with the difficulties
which confronted their parents and grandparents.
To use a common expression, "The first hundred
years is the hardest." By the beginning of the
nineteenth century, the hardy individuals who had
survived, had adjusted themselves to living in a
new country, and a living came easier. They had
more time to devote to study, amusement and wor
ship.
The laws of the new colonies — taken from
Blackstone—were severe. There were 160 sepa
rate and distinct offenses which were punishable
by death.
As economic conditions improved, a spirit of
unrest became apparent. Folks were not satisfied,
and laws became more liberal. The established
religions were not entirely satisfactory. This was
most apparent in northern New York.
Mrs. Anne Lee, who was wholly illiterate, came
from England to Watervleit, New York, and estab
lished "The Shaker" religion, using the Quaker
faith as a basis.
Mrs. Lee and her followers pretended to believe
that she was a re-incarnation of Jesus Christ, and
that the Millenium was at hand. They believed —
and taught—healing by faith and laying on of
hands, talked in strange tongues, only understood
by select persons called "interpreters."
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 45
Mrs. Lee died before the faith became well estab
lished. After her death the Shakers flourished
for 40 years, but passed out of existence in 100
years. Unfortunately for the new religion, it
taught the vow of celibacy, depending on converts
and proselytes keeping the number good.
In 1820, Joseph Smith, also in northern New
York, began to see visions and established the Mor
mon Church, which swung from Celibacy to Polyg
amy, Otherwise the Mormon faith was almost like
the Shakers. The Mormons adapted polygamy to
furnish husbands for their surplus women.
While others states prosecute a man for not sup
porting his one wife, Utah prosecutes men for sup
porting more than one wife.
And an industrious matron, with an undivided
one-sixth interest in a husband, and who has a brood
of children, is worth a whole lot more to a frontier
community, than a woman who owns a husband in
fee simple, and has only a fountain syringe and
hysterics.
Two of Joseph Smith's early followers were Sid
ney Rigdon and Orson Pratt. Both of them had
been Baptist preachers and both were educated.
Both of them "Healed by Faith." The articles of
Faith of the Mormon Church were written by Rig
don and Pratt.
Article Seven of the Mormon Church in use today
is, "We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy,
visions and healing by faith."
While the Mormon religion is the prevailing
religion in Utah, it is not the exclusive religion.
46 QUACKS
In 1928, in addition to Mormon Churches, Salt
Lake City had 8 Methodist Churches, 10 Baptist
Churches, 9 Catholic Churches, 8 Episcopal Churches
and 24 other Churches, including a Jewish Syna
gogue and a Buddhist temple.
While Mrs. Ann Lee and Joseph Smith were see
ing visions, William Miller, also in Northern New
York, had a dream and saw visions, and taught the
gospel of tongues and healing. Miller set an exact
date for the morning of the Resurrection, but when
"Tempos kept right on fugiting," the religion was
worked over and became the Seventh Day Adven-
tists.
Phineas Quimby, born three years earlier than
Joseph Smith, lived in a Shaker community,
worked over the Shaker ideas of healing and called
it Christian Science. Quimby died early and his
work passed into the hands of Mary Baker Eddy,
who was also raised in a Shaker community.
While Smith and Miller and Quimby were hav
ing revelations, a shoemaker named Andrew Jack
son Davis, strolled out into a country grave yard
(near Poughkeepsie, New York) one night.
Here he met the disembodied spirits of Galen,
the Greek Physician and Swedenborg, the English
Theosophist. Poor old Galen had been buried
in Greece 1600 years before this, and the mortal
remains of Swedenburg had reposed in a London
cemetary for 75 years. Just how, or why, these
two worthies happened to be in a country grave
yard several thousand miles removed from their
respective burial places, is not explained. That
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 47
is a part of the revelation and must not be ques
tioned. However, they were fast workers. In a
few minutes they not only authorized Davis to go
out and heal the sick, but gave him the informa
tion necessary to do so. Andrew Jackson Davis
quit shoemaking and went out as a healer. He
had a limited education, and realized that he must
not do his own writing. He hired a couple of
Presbyterian ministers named Wm. Fishbaugh and
Jesse Ferguson to do the writing for him.
Also they wrote a book on "Divine Revelations,"
which passed through 34 editions in 30 years,
thereby establishing a record which Mary Baker
Eddy, Dowie and Pastor Russel were unable to
reach. The teachings of Davis, as evidenced by
his "Divine Revelations," became the basis for
"Spiritism" usually called "Spiritualism," which
has degenerated and passed into the hands of
Trance Mediums and Fortune Tellers.
There have been numerous dissensions from
Spiritism. One of these was an immoral Cult
called Theocratic Unity, founded by Madame Dis-
Debar, and had a prosperous career until Madame
Dis Debar was sent to prison to serve out a seven-
year sentence. Her husband received a similar
sentence.
In addition to these five Religions, all of which
included healing, were other Cults, most of them
local and short lived. It will be observed that
nearly all of them had a strong sex element, vary
ing from Celibacy in the Shakers, to Polygamy
in the Mormons. Some of the minor cults taught
48 QUACKS
sexual practices too disgusting to discuss in
writing and had "matings" which make Judge Ben
Lindsay's trial marriage look like a life sentence.
All of the above cults originated in northern
New York, during the first half of the nineteenth
century.
Mrs. Ann Lee certainly started something.
Perhaps one reason why new faiths prospered
was the fact that the old established faiths were
not liberal enough; they did not promise enough
advantages to their adherents.
There always has been, always will be, folks
who are not satisfied with their religions. Also
there always have been, always will be, folks who
will father any religion which will permit them
to collect money. The early American Colonies
were no exception.
New faiths and new churches come into being,
and the old, established faiths disagreed and di
vided. In 1828 a group of dissatisfied Methodists
started a "New Methodist Church." By 1844 there
were six, now there are seventeen Methodist
Churches. By 1857 there were nine branches of the
Presbyterian Church, and thirteen branches of the
Baptist Church.
Boston Stone, a Presbyterian, organized the
Christian church in 1831.
Sidney Rigdon, a Baptist, went over to the Dis
ciple church, and afterward became the brains of
the Mormon church.
Even the staid old Quakers disagreed about the
divinity of Christ and split.
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 49
Alexander Campbell began his crusade in Ohio
in 1830. Owing to disagreements among his fol
lowers there were soon six branches of the Disciple
church. Besides divisions of the old, established
faiths there were numerous new churches. Prac
tically all, old and new, believed and preached the
gift of healing, apparently a fixed, essential belief.
At this time the Middle West was being settled,
and free land available for colonization. Any cult
leader could get a free site for his colony. Many
of these colonies were communistic. The mem
bers worked for nothing, never had a holiday or
a pay day. The Shakers established prosperous
farm communities in Ohio and Kentucky. The
Mormons, never popular with their neighbors,
moved from New York to Ohio, then to Illinois,
Missouri and in 1847 moved to Utah, which at
that time belonged to Mexico. In 1836 Mormon
headquarters were established at Independence,
Mo., now a suburb of Kansas City. Since then
Kansas City has fostered more quackery than any
other city in the United States.
There is still a large Mormon Church and Print
ing plant at Independence.
In a dispute over a successor to Joseph Smith
one colony of Mormons went to Michigan, under
the leadership of J. J. Strang who was afterward
killed by his own followers. The colony disbanded,
some going to Utah, others being absorbed by
other churches. Strang had six wives and six
broods of children, none of whom remained loyal to
the Mormon Church.
50 QUACKS
The main colony of Mormons settled in Salt
Lake Valley in 1847. Forty years before this, Lewis
and Clark had explored the northwest territory.
The first report of Salt Lake Valley was made in
1823 by a United States scout named James Brid-
ger.
In 1830-35, W. A. Ferris, a civil engineer, em
ployed by American Fur Company, wrote a series
of articles on "Life in the Rocky Mountains." These
articles were printed in the Western Literary
Messenger of Buffalo, New York and afterward
were reprinted in "The Wasp," a Mormon news
paper printed in Nauvoo, Ill., without giving the
name of the author, and without naming the West
ern Literary Messenger.
It was 12 years later that the Mormons entered
the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.
Mormon scouts had gone over the ground care
fully. With crude instruments they had estab
lished the latitude and longitude of Salt Lake City,
within 50 feet of the exact figures made later by
the United States government.
Their colonies moved overland from the Mis
souri river at Kansas City.
More than 4000 persons made the trip of 1000
miles on foot, pushing their scanty belongings in
two-wheeled carts.
The sturdy sons of plural marriage subdued the
wilderness and made the desert bloom and blos
som. Frugal living and six days' work each week
were compulsory. With industry and frugality,
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 51
came thrift. Mormon communities have always been
prosperous.
No man can walk down the broad streets of Salt
Lake City, inspect the irrigation projects, or con
sider the mining industries of Utah without feel
ing that these leaders must have had the gift of
Prophecy.
Battle Creek, Mich, became the headquarters or
the Seventh Day Adventists, and has fostered more
quackery than any other city except Kansas City.
The Seventh Day Adventists have a three million
dollar sanitarium in Battle Creek, where a meal
costs $1 and the cheapest bedroom costs $10 a day,
and they ask to be exempt from taxation "as they
are a religious institution."
There are 50,000,000 so-called Christian citizens,
in the U. S. who are more or less concerned
about observing the Christian Sabbath which the
Seventh Day Adventists are trying to abolish.
The Seventh Day Adventists had their own medi
cal college, called the College of Medical Evange
lists, at Battle Creek, Mich. When the state require
ments became too high in Michigan, this college
was moved to Loma Linda, California. They also
have a large printing plant at Mountain View,
California, and "Paradise Valley Sanitarium" at
National City, California, using the slogan, "Health
is Contagious Here."
The same family which controls the Battle Creek
Sanitarium also controls a Ten Million Dollar Cor
poration, which makes and sells "Battle Creek
52 QUACKS
Poods" which are sold to retail groceries by wo
men demonstrators.
Country boys who have spent a few months as
attendants or masseurs in the Battle Creek Sani
tarium, have established "Baths", "Cures", or
"Battle Creek Treatments" all over the country,
and have made excellent demonstrations of semi-
illiterate, poorly trained "healers" who do more
harm than good. If some of these boys had a little
more sense they would be half-witted.
C. W. Post set himself up as a healer in Battle
Creek. His formula "I am well," antedated Couie's
"Day by day in every way, I am better," by some
25 years. To supplement his "mental" treatment
Post devised special diets to be sold at a profit and
became a millionaire through the sale of a coffee
substitute and a breakfast food called Grape Nuts.
He advertised that appendicitis was due to eating
white flour bread, and could be prevented by eating
his Grape Nuts. Later, by a strange fatality, Post
developed appendicitis (probably from eating
white flour bread) and paid Mayo Bros., of Roches
ter, Minn., $25,000 to remove his appendix.
The House of David at Benton Harbor and
Dowle's Zion City north of Chicago and Pastor
Russell's "Eternal Life," are merely lineal descend
ants of the older cults; merely the same old ideas
under new leadership.
The House of David, at Benton Harbor, was es
tablished in 1902 by Benj. Parnell. Like the older
cults they believed in a divinely inspired leader,
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 53
healing by faith, long hair and whiskers, strange
sexual rites, industry, no booze, no tobacco, no holi
days and no pay days, and everlasting life. Their
leader predicted the second coming of Christ in
1906, and again in 1916. They had a contempt for
their dead, dying from lack of faith, they were
immediately turned over to an undertaker and
buried without ceremony.
In 1917, the attorney general of Michigan
brought action against the House of David on the
ground that it was a public nuisance. Owing to
the loyalty of the subjects of the colony and corre
sponding lack of evidence, not much was accom
plished. A sample of this loyalty was shown by a
member of the House of David baseball team. He
showed considerable ability as a first baseman,
and was offered a job with the Chicago White Sox,
on condition that he get a shave and haircut, which
he refused to do. Benjamin Parnell, head of the
colony died lately, and went to his shameful grave
as an evidence of lack of faith and the days of the
colony are numbered.
Dowie's ideas were as old as written history.
He claimed to be Elijah returned to earth. His
story was believed by many persons, some of whom
had goodly sums of money.
He established a communistic colony just north
of Chicago, and called it Zion City. All of the
money went into a common fund and Dowie han
dled it. In addition to everlasting life, Dowie
promised his followers a home, a job, a living and
64 QUACKS
freedom from bodily ills. Factories were estab
lished and mechanics furnished employment at
their trades. A few clerks were employed in the
general store. Other persons, without trades were
assigned to ordinary labor. One man who paid
$10,000 into the common fund was assigned to the
task of sweeping streets. When he protested, he
learned that his $10,000 was beyond his control.
Until the state authorities demanded death cer
tificates no physician was tolerated. One dentist,
a negro, worked on their teeth, but was not allowed
to use an anaesthetic.
Whiskey, tobacco, profanity, and shows were
forbidden. Visitors who smoked, drank or cussed
inside the city limits paid fines. Often an extra
fine was tacked on for resisting an officer. The
colony prospered, as everybody worked without
a pay day. Dowie decided to hold a revival in
Madison Square Garden and convert New York.
This undertaking was a complete failure. After
spending several million dollars—all the accumu
lation of the colony treasury, Dowie denounced
New York, and came home broken financially and
physically. The chariot of fire did not come after
him this time. He died years ago, his disciples
still believe or pretend to believe that the world
is flat. The colony is dwindling away and Dowie-
ism can be considered entirely in the past tense.
A check of Dowie's literature during the zenith
of his career shows one cure in 250 on whose heads
Dowie "laid his hands."
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 55
Pastor Russell was not an ordained minister;
but a clerk in a shoe store. His activities began
at Pittsburgh, but he soon came to Chicago.
Russell's slogan was:
"Many now living will never die."
Most Cult leaders are content to say that ortho
dox religions are mistaken. Pastor Russell openly
charged them with being in league with the devil.
A large part of their revenue was from the sale
of books, more than 100,000,000 copies of
which have been sold. Encouraged by the sale of
books, Russell offered for sale "Miracle Wheat."
With the blessing of Pastor Russell this wheat was
to remove the curse of labor. The seed sold at
$1 a pound, or $60 a bushel. "Miracle Wheat"
proved to be very ordinary wheat, and after the
first year there was no sale for it, as seed wheat
Some of it was sold as "Feed wheat, unfit for mill
ing."
Meanwhile, speculators had run the price of
grain down for fear the farmers would get out
of debt.
The failure of "Miracle Wheat" was the "begin
ning of the end" for Pastor Russell. He died years
ago, and the headquarters of the colony are now
in California, (see p. 187.)
In studying these religions, we find the heads
of them make considerable money. Brigham
Young, Mary Eddy Baker and C. W. Post left
estates running into millions.
Dowie, Ben Parnell, B. J. Palmer, Pastor Rus
66 QUACKS
sell and Aimee Semple Macpherson all collected
and wasted millions.
Besides Healing Cults, low-grade Medical Col
leges came into being, through the new states of
the Middle West.
The State of Missouri has had 44 medical schools
during the past 60 years; Illinois had 43; Ohio, 42;
Indiana, 27. One small city, Louisville, Ky. has
had eleven schools of medicine. It was dead easy
for any cultist to become a physician, or start a
school of his own. All he needed was some blank
diploma forms and a bottle of ink.
A recent form of spectacular Quackery was the
Oscilloclast or the Electronic Therapy.
The Electronic Therapy was unusual in the sense
that it was developed by a highly educated physi
cian, Albert Abrams. Abrams was born in Cali
fornia, of Jewish parentage. He did net have the
usual accessories of the Quack. He was not an
orphan, was not an invalid, and did not know
squallor and poverty, and he did not study by the
light of a pine knot. His training and education
were apparently thorough. He apparently got
an M. D. degree at Heidleburg, Germany, at the
age of 18. This is the first weak spot in his career,
as Heidleburg did not make a practice of granting
medical diplomas to 18-year-old boys. He wrote
several books, the first one to attract attention
was "Spondylotherapy," a course similar to Oste
opathy, In fact, the Osteopaths accepted it and wept
tears of joy, just as they always do when an M. D.
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 57
accepts their theory to sell them something or
get a job teaching in their schools.
Spondylotherapy was evidently written to make
an opening for Abrams' Oscilloclast, in the event
that it was refused by the Medical Profession,
Abrams wanted to be within the good graces of
the Osteopath, (see 22. p. 130.)
Briefly, the Oscilloclast was offered as a means
of securing a mechanical reaction, and having
given the reaction, could be reversed and adjusted
to healing the ailment shown by the reactions.
The theory of a chemical reaction is well es
tablished, it is a test to show the presence of a
foreign body in the system. There are dozens of
them, each for a different disease, and all of them
requiring skill, and careful, tedious attention.
Making a chemical reaction hardly comes within
the skill of the Quack, hence, Quacks were over
joyed to learn of a device for producing a mechani
cal reaction from a drop of blood on a blotting
paper. The three diseases most frequently shown
by the Oscilloclast were Tuberculosis, Syphilis and
Cancer, sometimes two, sometimes all three.
Physicians sent drops of human blood and the
machine reported Tuberculosis, Syphilis and Can
cer. Blood from supposedly healthy persons,
showed Tuberculosis, Syphilis and Cancer. Blood
from healthy, virtuous dogs and chickens which
were above reproach, was sent in and showed
Tuberculosis, Syphilis and Cancer. Finally drops
of red paint were sent in, and still the machine
reported Tuberculosis, Syphilis and Cancer.
68 QUACKS
The American Medical Association, after due de
liberation, pronounced the Oscilloclast a fake.
Henry Ford, William Randolph Hearst and the
Scientific American, each tore an Oscilloclast to
pieces and all of them called it a fake.
Then Abrams leased it to the Osteopaths, with
the understanding that he would not let the Chiro
practors have it. Here was one thing which the
Chiroes could not steal from them. The Osteopaths
took the bait, hook, sinker and all.
The Oscilloclast was not sold. Like the Palmer
Neurocalometer, and the Poro system for taking
kinks out of negroes hair, it was rented. It was
leased or rented for a cash deposit of $250 and a
cash rental of $5 a month. The lessee agreed
never to open the machine, and was authorized
to guarantee cures for everything, at prices indi
cated by the Abram's schedule. Also there were
minor devices, books and a course of training for
$200.00. Each machine placed meant $450 or more
in cash, and the cost of making the machine would
not exceed $50. In two years returns from leases
brought Abrams more than a million dollars. At
his death in 1924 at the age of 60, the scheme was
going strong, but has since fallen like the shell
from a spent sky rocket.
Through the thickly populated sections of the
Middle West, a close observer will find about one
obscure healer, or cure to the county, trying to
practice medicine without a license. These are
usually Cancer cures or divine healers. Some of
them dispense medicines made according to a for
RELIGION AND QUACKERY 59
mula revealed in a dream, or handed down from
the Indians.
These "cures" are usually called "Patent Medi
cines" and advertised as a cure for any and all
Human ailments. Some of them contain drugs of
value, some are worthless, many of them possi-
tively harmful.
Three Patent Medicine fortunes now being di
vided are Chas. H. Fletcher, forty million dollars
made on "Castoria", E. C. De Witt, eighty million
made on "Little Early Riser" pills, James Hart-
man, thirty million dollars made on "Peruna."
Patent medicines are usually one of three classes
Physics, containing a laxative.
Bracers, containing alcohol.
Baby Killers, containing narcotics.
The Volstead Act was supposed to put the brac
ers out of business. Instead their sale increased
by leaps and bounds.
When so-called "good liquor" was not available,
various nostrums were drank for the alcoholic con
tents, regardless of other chemical ingredients,
men drank Hair tonic, Bay rum, Flavoring Ex
tracts and Horse Liniment. Some genius discov
ered that a 2 oz. bottle of Jamaica Ginger poured
into a bottle of Coco Cola made a substitute for
a Cocktail. "Everything was Jake" until some
thing like 50,000 addicts developed paralysis or
"Jake leg." Jamaica Ginger is an ethical prepara
tion used in treating disturbances of the digestive
tract. If the adulteration of a single remedy, can
60 QUACKS
permanently disable 50,000 American citizens, the
Ladies' Aid society in Washington (commonly called
the Congress of the United States) should not object
to the Tugwell Bill. (See p. 83).
The Harrison anti-narcotic act put a severe
crimp in the "Baby Killers," but even under the
present law, which compels a registered, licensed
physician to record his narcotic prescriptions, a
patent medicine containing a narcotic can be sold
by a drug store, a country merchant or an illiterate
negro, just off of the chain gang. It is interesting
to note that "Chloral Hydrate," or knock-out drops,
the drug best known to the underworld, can still
be purchased without restriction, in the open mar
ket.
A recent government bulletin dealing with habit
forming drugs, gives a chemical analysis of many
proprietary remedies usually called "Patent Medi
cines," giving the active principle of the nostrum,
and the quantity as well as the trade name of the
narcotic used.
While this was intended as an exposure, it gives
the drug addict a chance to select the drug best
suited to his habit, and buy it at the drug store.
CHAPTER V
ACQUIRING MEDICAL DEGREES
At the present writing mail order diplomas and
degrees are a drug on the market. A Quack who
does not have a long line of degrees is practicing
self denial. With $100 for diplomas and $50 to
frame them, a Quack can fill the four walls of his
office. These nicely framed documents impress
the patients (victims) and give the Quack a chance
to lie about his training.
Every large city, many small ones, have "di
ploma mills", or crooks who sell "mail order"
diplomas.
A mail order college in Washington, D. C., al
most under the shadow of the Capitol, will sell
any sort of a degree, but tries to avoid selling more
than three degrees to the same person.
The District of Columbia not only licenses all
forms of quackery, but also licenses Soothsayers,
Crystal gazers and Fortune tellers, thereby giving
Foreign Diplomats, United States Senators and
wives of presidents a chance to secure occult in
formation on state questions and personal be
havior. Public officials apparently are as suscept
ible to quackery as ordinary mortals.
During our post war prosperity, every form of
quackery waxed and grew fat. A small town quack
doctor who had never worn a uniform was brought
to Washington and made Surgeon General of the
United States.
62 QUACKS
Washington, the seat of government, is probably
the poorest sample of government in the United
States. Oriental diplomats, being above the law,
may bring their plural wives and their slaves to
Washington. United States politicians, while amen
able to the law, bring their bootleg liquor and their
kept women.
Whisky, Immorality and Gambling may not
have a friend on the floor of the Houses of Con
gress, but they have few enemies in private homes,
hotels and embassies.
Residents of the District of Columbia are not
voters. Congress acts as City Council. Public of
ficials are apparently more concerned about sup
plying jobs for their friends, than they are about
reducing the billion dollar deficit which developed
in 1930. A man who can not make a living at
home, can hold a $10,000 job in Washington if he
is a friend of some government official.
The "President *
of the Washington, D. C. School
of Chiropractic, writes his name.
J. Shelby Riley, Ph. D., L. L. D., M. D., D. C,
D. O. M. S., D. P.
Ordinary Chiropractors are usually satisfied with:
D. C, P. C, P. S. G.
One of A. T. Still's early sattelites in endorsing
Osteopathy, wrote his name William Smith. He
kept giving himself degrees until he wrote it: —
William Smith, M. D., C. L., F. S. R. E:, D. O.
A teacher in a school of Chiropody writes his
name Norman C Lake, D. Sc., M. D., M. S., D. S:,
F. R. C. S.
ACQUIRING MEDICAL DEGREES 63
One of the leading exponents of Quackery now
located in Los Angeles writes his name:
George Starr White, Ph.D., L.L.D., N.D., D.C.,
Ph.C., M.D., D.O.
A gentleman who has recently established a
chair of Chirotonsology —for Barbers—writes his
name: John Winter Rice, Ph.D., B.Sc, M.S., M.A.
In June, 1928 "Doctor" L. A. Johnson, a Negro, of
Lake Village, Ark., was arrested for obtaining
money through the mails by fraud. He had only a
primary school education, but used 27 mail order
degrees, Medical, Secular and Ecclesiastical. He
died while the case was pending, thereby trans
ferring it from the Federal Courts of Arkansas, to
the court of St. Peter, in the Jim Crow section of
Heaven.
Perhaps the most unfortunate feature of treat
ment of human ailments is the granting of a lim
ited license.
Something like forty different groups are con
stantly asking state legislature to grant "Special
licenses" to treat Baldness or "defective vision",
or "Corns" or some other misfortunes to which
we are subject.
In asking for such a "Special license" they are
always very extravagant in promising to live up
to said license. Having secured the "Special li
cense" they seem to forget such promises.
The writer followed one such effort when a
"Special license" was granted to optometrists.They
only wanted to fit glasses, but in a few months,
the one man who had made the most extravagant
64 QUACKS
promises, announced in his advertising that he
was agent for a truss and would treat hernias.
Other "doctors" with licenses to fit glasses are
taking out tonsils.
The licensed '"Chiropodist" or "Podiatrist" soon
becomes an Orthopedic Surgeon. Men with barber's
license assume the right to remove moles and
warts, a very dangerous undertaking. Osteopaths,
Chiropractors and their like are granted licenses
"to treat human ailments, without using medi
cine internally or externally," and immediately lay
in a stock of drugs.
Any man who does not care to buy degrees can
get them free by writing an article for Bernarr
MacFadden. Without money and without price,
Bernarr gives Medical Degrees, Scientific Degrees,
Literary Degrees or Military Titles to any person
whose articles appear in any of Bernarrs numer
ous publications.
Any man with a flow of oratory who goes out
as a lecturer for Christian Science, Osteopathy or
Chiropractic, is endowed with a string of degrees
so long that he gets writer's cramp every time he
writes his name. Also these lecturers are exploited
as martyrs who gave up some unusual vocation, to
become lecturers, but all of them are making twice
as much as lecturers as they ever made at anything
else. These lecturers are usually introduced by
some local person of prominence, who needs money
—and earns it—in making this introduction.
In November, 1924, the National Dental Associ
ation met in Dallas, Texas. The Chiropractors who
ACQUIRING MEDICAL DEGREES 65
practice medicine in Texas in violation of the law
and without a license, fearing that the "deer pee-
pul" might be corrupted by the presence of so many
ethical men in town, without opposition, imported
one of the officers of the National Chiropractors'
Association for a lecture.
A Dallas minister was paid $25 to introduce him.
In this introduction, the minister referred to the
Chiropractor as "A highly educated lawyer, minis
ter, physician and writer of text books." The
lecturer was given headlines on the front pages
of Dallas newspapers, and the introduction empha
sized.
In response to a letter of inquiry from the writer
of "Quacks," the minister wrote that "he» had
shaped his introduction to suit the Chiropractor,
whom he had met for the first time a few hours
before the introduction." The minister also stated
that he wholly agreed with the Chiropractors and
thought the man he introduced was a better man
than I was. For another $25, I presume that
preacher might have shot me.
State requirements admitting to the practice of
medicine vary in different states, quite a few states
having more than one board of examiners.
Arkansas is one of a few states, which has five
different examining boards, each having authority
to issue licenses to treat Human ailments in the
State of Arkansas. In Hot Springs a Federal license
is required, hence six different groups, treat hu
man ailments in Hot Springs.
A similar condition exists in the State of Florida.
66 QUACKS
One of the Florida licensing boards became so
liberal in granting licenses that said board was
abolished. The members of this board continued
to grant licenses by dating them back to a time
when they would have been legal. In 1929, after
this board had been abolished, they exhausted
their stock of license certificates, and had more
printed.
Missouri had a group of "educators" who
were able to furnish high school diplomas and chi
ropractic diplomas and state licenses, all dated
back far enough to avoid suspicion. This practice
was ended in 1926.
Connecticut is another state which was
unfortunate enough to have several licensing
boards. A Connecticut license gave its holder
reciprocity in many other states, and "Diploma
mill" Graduates flocked into Connecticut not
to practice, but to get a license, and immedi
ately secure reciprocity to practice in other states.
Fifty or more went to California. Arkansas, Illi
nois, Ohio, Oklahoma, Kansas and Michigan, all
discovered that they had suffered from the invasion
of Connecticut licentiates which included John R.
Brinkly, goat gland artist of Milford, Kan., Henry
J. Schireson, Orthopedic Surgeon extraordinary,
Chicago and Geo. Starr White, Los Angeles.
We might expect such irregularities from Flori
da, Missouri and Arkansas but Connecticut should
have known better.
CHAPTER VI
THE MEDICAL TRUST
The members of the Medical Profession are not
infallible, neither are they endowed with supernat
ural powers, but they have at their command all of
the medical ideas which have been tested and
proven since written history began.
Every physician is pledged to give his discoveries
to his fellow practitioners and the ideas of each
generation have been passed along to the next
generation. When an organization has studied,
and taught and practiced a certain line of reason
ing for 10,000 years, they are quite likely to have
knowledge which is worth using. The ideas which
present day physicians are using are based on the
toil and study of millions of capable men who
have devoted their lives to this work.
In the United States, the term, Doctor of Medicine
(symbolized by the abbreviation M. D.) identifies
the chosen few who have sacrificed many years of
their lives to gain the accumulated knowledge of
the ages.
The Medical profession has always had to fight
—is still fighting superstition. Often when a doc
tor calls to see a sick child, his hardest job is com
bating the ideas of all the old women in the neigh
borhood.
68 QUACKS
If a child is stricken with diphtheria, the mother
—acting on the advice of the neighbors, will refuse
to let the Doctor administer anti-toxin. When
a fatal outcome of the case is evident the mother
calls on the same neighbors to pray for it and the
doctor is blamed for losing the case. He may even
be threatened with a malpractice suit.
The physician is granted a narcotic license, and
authorized to use Morphine according to his own
discretion. But if he gives a drug addict one grain
too much he is liable to be dragged into court about
it. If he prescribes whisky, he is sure to be called
vile names.
A majority of our citizens are practicing birth
control, the physician is authorized by law to do
certain operations, if he considers same necessary
to save life. The physician is the only person au
thorized to perform abortions and the only person
to get into trouble when one is performed.
When a man has a cold, every man he meets
suggests a remedy for it. Only when the case be
comes serious is the Doctor called. If the cold
develops into Pneumonia, the same crowd which
prescribed for the cold, complains of the ineffici
ency of the Doctor.
The Cults and Quacks using mystic means, and
divine revelations, call in the doctor as a last re
sort and blame the doctor for losing the case.
While medicine has been divided and sub-divided
and many physicians limit their practice to single
organs or groups of localized organs, there are
THE MEDICAL TRUST 69
still thousands of General Practitioners, com
monly referred to as the Family Doctor.
The general practictioner or family doctor, is
the keystone of the arch of medicine. Seventy-live
per cent of the practise of medicine belongs to
him, and can not be taken away from him.
Our civilization has not produced a higher type
of men, or a class which has helped humanity more
than the Family Doctor.
He is almost a member of the family, except
that the family regard him as a superior being. He
is the father confessor, the family advisor and
counselor. He shares the joys and sorrows of the
family. He rejoices with the young parents over
the birth of their first born, he mourns with the
family over the death of the father, stricken by
accident or disease, in the prime of life. He closes
the tired eyes of the patriarch for the last time
and feels that death has come as a relief from the
cares and troubles of a long and useful life.
His word is law; from the children of the family
he commands a greater respect than the President
of the United States.
In his bosom he holds sacred and secret the phys
ical and financial affairs of the family, often know
ing the financial status of the family so well that
he never presents a bill for his services. He is so
busy earning money that he has no time to collect
it. He gets the boys and girls through the mumps
and measles, and whooping cough and the seven-
year-itch, he sets the broken bones and amputates
70 QUACKS
mashed fingers. He stands by the bedside of the
woman who goes down into the valley of the
shadow of death to bring a new life into the world.
He spends the long, weary hours of the night, min
istering to her, he washes and dresses the little
red bundle of humanity for the first time, and in
the cold, gray dawn of the morning goes his way
without sleep, often without breakfast, perhaps
without hope of a fee, to attend other sufferers. He
is not a saint, and does not claim close companion
ship with the Deity.
He may use a stimulant occasionally, and he
may sometimes sit in a friendly game of poker.
After all he is only human, but he is doing more
for humanity than any other class of men in the
world.
He is not using the methods of his predecessors,
he has learned better. As a means of transport
ation the ox-cart of pioneer days was the best thing
available. It has given way for the automobile.
The family doctor has discarded his saddle horse
and pill bags and no longer talks of laudable pus,
he signs birth certificates now and will sign your
death certificate and is the best friend that any
man ever had. He is not a superman nor magician.
He is a human being, with human sympathy and
understanding, working within the limits of scien
tific knowledge. But he achieves victories today
which, only a few generations ago, would have been
called "miracles."
Without the physician, some! of our greatest
achievements would not have been possible. The
THE MEDICAL TRUST 71
Panama Canal could not have been dug, while Ma
laria and Yellow Fever were prevalent.
In spite of this the Doctor is always being as
sailed by the Quacks.
The public is continually being bombarded by
Quack propaganda, not only citing fake cures and
fake promises of cures, but making severe criti
cisms of the so-called regular school of medicine,
which they call the Medical Trust.
When anything is said about the Quack viola
ting the law, he throws up his hands and yells:
"The Medical Trust is after me."
According to Quack propaganda, the Medical Trust
is about to hog tie us, take all of our money, pour
a lot of nasty medicine down our throats, shoot
our veins full of deadly serums and put meters on
our windpipes.
The Medical Trust, like spinal analysis, impinged
nerves and subluxations of the vertebrae, is merely
a stock phrase of the Chiropractor, or a subterfuge
of the Quack.
"There is no such animal."
Some of the men who have graduated from Med
ical colleges, and qualified to practice medicine,
belong to societies and attend meetings of these
societies to discuss unusual cases of illness^ or
methods of treatment. These societies do not make
laws or enforce laws, and do not in any sense,
create a monopoly or constitute a Medical Trust.
The first duty of any government is to protect
the health of its subjects. The government must
72 QUACKS
regulate the health and welfare of the whole peo
ple; for the good of the whole people Is the chief
object of government. And the will of every man
is subject to the laws of the government. Our
jails are full of people who have been deprived
of their liberty, for the public good. Punishment
for some offences is so severe that the offender
goes up to the scaffold with the sheriff and comes
down dead, or has a few thousand volts of electric
juice shot into him.
We have laws regulating Cattle Ticks, English
Sparrows, Turkey Buzzards, Anthrax and Hog
Cholera to safeguard the property of citizens. No
one calls these laws trusts. Health is our most
valued possession, deprive a man of his health and
life will lose its charm. No sane, man would put
a price on his eyes or his good right arm; or agree,
for a financial consideration, to spend the rest of
his life in an invalid's chair.
The laws of the state, to conserve and preserve
the health of its citizens, prescribes that only com
petent persons shall treat the sick, and that com
petency shall be indicated by passing an examina
tion. In order not to prevent an unlicensed person
for suggesting a remedy for a minor ailment, the
law adds the provision, "with the expectation of
charging a fee."
In other words the law does not interfere with
treating the sick but does interfere with charging
for treatment. Here is where the Quack runs afoul
of the law. Deprive him of his fee and he sets up
THE MEDICAL TRUST 73
the cry, "The Medical trust is after me." The M. D.'s
chief aim is to cure the patient. The quacks chief
aim is the fee. The Osteopath, the Chiropractor and
the Christian Scientist make their charge for
handling the case and collect in advance. The
M. D. charges by the visit and puts it on the books.
The medical profession, believing as it does in
ethics, and not in propaganda, does not undertake
to contradict the Quacks, and Mr. Average MaD
only hears one side of the story.
Let us consider for a minute what has been
done by the regular school of medicine against
which, in the name of freedom, we are so vocifer
ously and so repeatedly warned. Then consider
the achievements of the various schools, cults,
'isms and creeds that would supplant this profes
sion and consign it to forgetfulness.
The regular school of medicine is not infallible
It does not guarantee cures. There are many
things it cannot do. But it never ceases in its
search for truth. The laboratory and the clinic
room are its foundation and inspiration. Nothing
is taken for granted. It bases its deductions upon
scientific facts, that must overcome the combined
force of prejudice, tradition and vested interest.
What has become of cholera and yellow fever?
What has become of infant diarrhea? What has
become of Smallpox, Infantile blindness and Bu
bonic plague? What has become of diphtheria,
membranous croup, trachoma and typhoid fever?
They fell before the Medical Trust. Who is gradual
74 QUACKS
ly conquering tuberculosis, the greatest of human
plagues, diabetes and pernicious anemia. Who
achieved the marvels of modern surgery? The
Medical Trust. One by one, hostile schools of
healing have been reared to combat the ancient
professions of Hippocrates. Where are they now?
Only echo answers —Where?
Religions, Creeds and Cults come and go. They
are quickly adopted by neurotics, hypochondriacs
and malcontents of various kinds, ready to
try and recommend anything. About three-
fourth of these proselytes are influential females
with money, leisure morbidity and zeal. A large
part of the other fourth are males of the long
haired spiritual type.
The Cults and cures of the past generation are
amusing to the present generation. Our cures will
be equally amusing to those who come after us.
Those who seek to overthrow the regular prac
titioners found their assumptions upon a combi
nation of superstition, and a wooden-faced denial
of physical facts. They come and go like the
passing seasons. They make no great scientific
discoveries. They garner no tomes of physical
knowledge. Their beliefs are found to be based
upon pretence, gullibility, superstition and eso
teric moonshine.
The regular school makes mistakes. It needs
watching. It should never emerge to that haughty
eminence where it will not receive its full quota
of brain-clearing, humility-preserving kicks; but
THE MEDICAL TRUST 75
forget not, brethren, it is the salt of the earth, and
suffering humanity's one dim and distant star of
hope.
Two hundred years ago, 60 to 75 per cent of all
children born in England died in childhood. No
United States statistics are available for this peri
od. Typhoid, Dysentery and Tuberculosis were
always present. Bubonic plague killed one fourth
of the population. Smallpox killed thousands, and
blinded and deformed others. This state of affairs
existed, not only among the poor, but also among
the wealthy.
Queen Anne of England, was the mother of four
teen children, not one of whom survived her to
inherit the throne. During the nineteenth cen
tury the death rate among children in the United
States was 300 per 1000. The present death rate
in the District of Columbia is 60 per 1000.
Typhoid, Diphtheria and Dysentery are almost
conquered, would be wiped out in a single year,
if Health officers were not opposed by Quacks and
Cultists. If the public would cooperate 100 per
cent with the "regular practitioners" and the vari
ous boards of health all of these diseases, as well
as the so called "usual diseases of childhood" could
be wiped out in a single year.
A family should regard having any of these ail
ments with the same feeling that they regard be
ing lousy or having the itch.
There is not sufficient space to discuss all these
diseases. We will only consider smallpox.
76 QUACKS
Smallpox is an acute, infectious disease, com
municated from person to person largely by direct
contact, or by articles soiled by discbarge from
sores of an infected person. From earliest times
it has flourished in every land, attacking people of
every race, color and nationality; sparing neither
the young or the old, the exalted or the lowly, the
clean and the squalid. About one-fourth of all
persons died with it. It blinded many for life and
left on all survivors the horrid marks of its loath
some touch.
It depopulated cities and exterminated nations.
In the eighteenth century, within the area com
prising the then known civilized world, 60,000,000
persons died of smallpox. At that time practically
every person living had the scars of smallpox on
his face. The absence of pock marks was so un
usual that it was noted as a means of identification.
When John Hancock called the fifty-six members
of the Continental Congress to order, every mem
ber was more or less pock marked, several of them
blinded in one eye by smallpox. Today, Congress
with 541 Senators, Representatives and Delegates,
does not include a single pock-marked man.
In 1796, five years before the end of the eight
eenth century, Edward Jenner, an English physi
cian, announced that smallpox could be prevented
by vaccination. Since then smallpox has existed
merely because some misguided people, represent
ing a small part of our population oppose vaccin
ation. All Cults are opposed to it, simply for the
THE MEDICAL TRUST 77
reason that regular physicians, the Medical Trust,
advocated it. While this chapter is being written,
Mahatma Gandhi; a so-called religious leader, now
in jail in India, is denouncing vaccination with as
much zeal as he denounces eating meat, or the
government monopoly of salt.
No argument against vaccination is reasonable.
In the Phillipine Islands, prior to the occupation
by the United States Army, there were more than
40,000 deaths from Smallpox each year, 6,000 of
these were in the city of Manilla. Our doctors
vaccinated three and one-half million Filipinos
without a death or even a complication. In Manilla
during the next seven years there was not a small
pox death. At this time there were more than
5000 United States soldiers in the Phillippines and
only one case of smallpox developed among them.
Thirty-three years ago, the Board of Education,
in St. Louis, Mo., adopted a rule requiring all chil
dren entering school to show mark of successful
Vaccination. As usual the cults opposed vaccina
tion. The Circuit Court ruled that the School
Board had the right to make such a rule and en
force it. This ruling was sustained by the Supreme
Court of Missouri. Since then not a single school
child in St. Louis has contracted smallpox. In
every instance where vaccination has been com
pulsory and unanimous there has been no small
pox.
When an epidemic of smallpox threatened Los
Angeles, one of the judges of the Circuit Court,
D. L. Edmunds, in sympathy with the Cults, wrote an
78 QUACKS
article referring to vaccination as a graft to make
money for the Doctors.This was printed in the
Christian Science Monitor. As a result of this there
was an epidemic and 165 foolish persons who re
fused to be vaccinated died of smallpox.
American Doctors vaccinated three and one-half
million dirty, unkempt Fillipinoes without a death
or loss of an arm. This should satisfy any honest,
reasonable person that stories about vaccination
are untrue.
During the Spanish American war, soldier boys
died like flies, with Typhoid fever. Now complete
immunity from Typhoid is available by a few
"shots" in the arm.
During the last decade of the 19th century when
the population of the United States was about half
of what it is now, 40,000 children died each year
with Diphtheria. Now a death from Diphtheria is
not only unnecessary, but is a reflection on human
credulity.
Yellow fever epidemics spread as far north as
Memphis, during the memory of persons now liv
ing. And the physicians who have conquered
these awful diseases, are called "The Medical
Trust" when they ask for enforcement of laws
relating to epidemics and sanitation.
The "Easy Mark," like the poor, are always with
us. No matter how absurd a theory relating to a
"divinely inspired" cure, its exploiters can always
secure a following. And whatever else the Cults
and Quacks advocate, they all unite in denouncing
the well-trained physician.
CHAPTER VII
SELLING QUACKERY
An American millionaire who made his fortune
through fraudulent advertising said "The Ameri
can people like to be humbugged." Another Amer
ican millionaire who believed in publicity said,
"There is a sucker born every minute." He proba
bly had the estimate too low.
The American people are not the first race to
manifest such a weakness.
A very wise gentleman, named Solomon, who
died several thousand years ago, left some books
for posterity in which he discusses "The fool and
his money." Every known code of laws has tried
to protect the weak and the over-confident from
the unscrupulous, and no code of laws has been
so complete that human ingenuity could not find
loopholes in it.
For this reason we have Courts of Equity to sup
plement our Courts of Law.
Only a few generations ago the masses of the
people were unable to read, and their require
ments and demands limited to actual necessities.
We have gotten away from that stage of living.
Our money comes easier now, it comes easier than
it has come to any other nation. And we are spend
ing it a little faster than we make it.
We have perfected labor saving machinery. Fifty
80 QUACKS
men who once moved dirt with shovels, are now
unemployed and stand and watch a steam shovel
move a ton of dirt at the turn of a lever. Furniture.
Clothing and Automobiles are overproduced, in
masses, by machinery. Since these things must
be sold, we have lured the people into buying them
on the installment plan.
Just now, about half of the population is trying
to make a living selling to the other half. We have
developed a line of "high pressure" salesmen, who
are selling things which the public does not need
and cannot afford. Also we have Blue Sky laws to
regulate these salesmen.
Compulsory education has brought the ability
to read. The business man, the mechanic and the
farmer get their mail every day. They keep in
touch with the world by reading a daily newspaper,
costing only a few cents. This newspaper also tells
of opportunities to spend money, as the newspaper
is supported by advertising.
Merchants are willing to pay for advertising,
it gives them a chance to impress their ideas on
other people, and a reader who skips the ads misses
the best part of the paper. If a merchant's ideas
are accepted, he sells his goods.
The successful advertiser must be skilled in the
power of suggestion. He must understand Mass
Psychology. His story may be presented in vari
ous forms, it must be logical, it must not be tire
some.
However, it need not be true.
In fact, a large part of advertising matter is
not true.
SELLING QUACKERY 81
This is easily apparent, as one set of ads may
contradict another.
A sample of this is a well-known, well-advertised
substitute for Coffee. The exploiters of this Nos
trum (this term used after due deliberation) place
considerable emphasis on the injurious effects of
Caffeine, the active principle in Coffee. The ad
vantages of the exhilarating effects of caffeine are
advertised extensively in Coco Cola and Coffee
propaganda, and often the contradictory ads ap
pear in the same periodical.
One advertiser hopes to profit by the sale of
Caffeine, the other does not, but hopes to profit by
the sale of something else. The periodical profits
by both advertisements.
The real purpose in advertising is to make the
prospect dissatisfied, and then suggest relief, ex
ploiting whatever commodity the advertiser has
to offer.
Quackery ads scare the prospect, make him feel
sick, and then guarantee him a cure.
As no one is paid to contradict advertising, the
prospective purchaser may be—can be—is con
vinced. Women can be convinced that certain
pills, lotions and devices will reduce weight, or
that Synthetic Silk garments made from wood by
a mechanical silkworm are the genuine articles.
Men can be convinced that hair can be grown on
bald heads or that alfalfa cigarettes are made of
imported tobacco.
Advertising is one of our economic marvels;
its costs are staggering. In 1928, one cigarette
82 QUACKS
and tobacco firm spent a total of four million dol
lars to advertise their products. Another tobacco
firm spent over three million dollars, a third spent
almost three million dollars.
Wrigley spends six million dollars annually to
sell chewing gum at 5c per package.
Makers of Coco Cola spend four millions a year
to sell a nickle drink.
The 1928 advertising bill for a food concern
making a so-called substitute for coffee and an
imitation breakfast food was considerably in ex
cess of three million dollars. A chemical company
spent almost four million dollars to advertise a
cure for offensive breath (only they called it some
thing else). Here is a neat little total of more
than twenty seven million dollars in one year to
advertise a few commodities which do not benefit
the purchaser, may even be harmful. The advertis
ing costs plus interest, taxes, profits, and overhead
were passed along to the consumer.
The annual advertising of the Osteopaths and
the Chiropractors will probably reach ten million
dollars.
The advertising bills of patent medicines are so
liberal that about half of our newspapers and
magazines could not exist without them.
In addition to their advertising, the Cults have
"slush funds" running into millions, for legal de
fense and charged to publicity. "Publicity" includes
suppressing of unfavorable matter. The news col
umns and editorial columns of periodicals are "cen
SELLING QUACKERY 83
sored" by the advertising department, and shaped
to suit the advertiser.
Often liberal advertising contracts are made to
control the editorial policy of the newspaper in
which ads appear. The editor sells his immortal
soul, along with the advertising space. (See p. 96.)
June 30, 1906 President Theodore Roosevelt signed
a bill to regulate the advertising of adulterated
foods and drugs. It was what was left of a very ex
cellent bill, after the vendors of adulterated foods
and drugs got through with it. In a limited way, it
protected the public until 1910 when the Supreme
Court of the U. S. rendered a decision which made a
joke of it. Meanwhile "The Advertising Federation
of America" adopted a slogan "The Truth in Adver
tising" and kept on lying.
Years ago the Patent medicine interests per
fected their "red clause contract" for advertising,
which not only regulated what the editor of the
paper wrote, but would compel him to go to the
state capital in a hurry, if unfavorably legislation
was proposed. The Chiropractors use a similar
advertising contract, annulling their obligations
if unfavorable laws are enacted.
The Chiropractors have a defense fund, or "slush
fund" running into millions, and every Chiroprac
tor has his literature on "What to do if trouble
starts."
For years the Federal Trade Commission has
promised to regulate this, but has done nothing.
Advertisers with plenty of money for publicity
84 QUACKS
can handle the Federal Trade Commission as well
as the newspapers. Publicity is a vital part of
the sales plan, and as long as fraudulent ads can
be run, frauds and quacks will continue to do bus
iness.
When Iowa newspapers refused to print adver
tising for Norman Baker, of Muscatine, he started
a $130,000.00 print shop of his own, and had Presi
dent Hoover, press a button in Washington to
start his presses.
When John R. Brinkley's $350,000 Radio Sta
tion was in joepardy. John R. went by airoplane
to Washington, D. C. to see Charlie Curtis, Vice
President of the United States. Charlie is a quarter
blood Indian and as a boy lived with his Indian
grandmother in a tepee in Kansas.
In Washington he lives in a suite of 11 rooms
in the Mayflower Hotel, the scheduled price of
which is $150 per day.
After John R. had told Charlie his troubles
Charlie advised the Radio Commission "you guys
lay off of Doc. Brinkley, he is a big Republican
from Kansas" and John R. went on broadcasting.
If we take advertising seriously, we must believe
that the millenium is just about to arrive. A man
can acquire fame and fortune in less time than an
old hen can raise a brood of chickens.
Health, strength and virility are available from
Quacks and Cults. Success in business and in love
can be gained by using certain lotions on the hair
or by wearing a certain brand of garters. Patent
SELLING QUACKERY 85
foods will make a two-year-old baby girl strong
enough to do the family washing. Samson with
the jawbone of an ass was a weakling alongside of
mail order athletes. Farm hands can get instruc
tion from correspondence schools, how to push the
business executive to one side and take his job.
Women who married mechanics —and were glad
to get them, get their ideas of success from movies,
and read tales of success, paid for by the inch,
until they think it a disgrace for a man to wear
overalls and get grease on his face. They feel this
very keenly when they hotfoot home from the
movies in time to open a can of beans for papa's
supper. All this old stuff about toil and wages is
bunk. From now on we are all to wear white col
lars and draw salaries for sitting at desks—if we
can find places to put all of these desks.
Now that the radio has passed through the ex
perimental stages, we are confronted with fake
and fraudulent messages which will come through
the ether into the sacred corners of our bedrooms,
until a standard of ethics is established in radio
messages. It is no longer necessary to go to the
city to be bunkoed.
A man may sit at home in his pajamas and slip
pers and be bunkoed over the radio.
Christ before Pilate Palmer owns and operates
WOC at Davenport, Iowa, on a current strong
enough to overpower all the other broadcasting
stations within 300 miles, (see p. 97.)
John R. Brinkley, rejuvenation quack, with a
86 QUACKS
"Mail Order" diploma and a Connecticut li
cense, owns and operates X. E. R. in Villa Acuna,
Mexico.
NJAZ carries a message from "Prof." Scholder,
who guarantees to grow hair on bald heads, and
who could not tell hair from the raveled out end
of a rope when both were mailed to him.
KTNT is owned and operated by Norman Baker
of Muscatine, Iowa. See page 84.
"Doctor" Percy Lemon Clark, Doctor of Sana-
tology, broadcasts his fraudulent promise of a cure
from WCFL, the Voice of Labor, Chicago.
When the Orlando, Florida, station was opened,
the air was filled with Quackery broadcasted by
an Osteopath, curing cancer with an Abrams outfit.
Annie Riley Hale, one of Bernarr MacFadden's
$25 a week college graduates, broadcasted over
WJZ, owned by the Westinghouse Company, a cure
for Cancer—like carrying a rabbit's foot.
Mrs. Augusta Stetson, Christian Scientist of
New York City, owned Station WHAP, and spent
$500,000 advising the public that the Catholics were
about to overthrow the Government and blow up the
Public Schools.
The strongest broadcasting outfit in Los An
geles, KFSG, is owned by Aimee Semple MacPher-
son. The operator of this station was overcome
by the biological urge and went to Carmel by the
Sea, at the same time Aimee was "Kidnapped."
CHAPTER VIII
BERNARR MACFADDEN
Bernarr MacFadden is the press agent of the
cults, and is a bright and shining example of what
a press agent can do.
In fact, Bernarr spends a small fortune each year,
to tell the public, through the medium of the
printed page, what a wonderful man Bernarr is.
Just what he pays his press agents is a matter
of conjecture, but they certainly earn all they are
paid.
A recent magazine article, evidently paid for by
the inch, makes this statement:
"Few conventions of the American Medical Asso
ciation fail to consider resolutions, viewing Ber
narr MacFadden with alarm."
This is about, as absurd as saying—
"The U. S. Department of Agriculture is alarmed
about hill farmers, who plant their crops by phases
of the moon."
Or "The American Geological Society is alarmed
about a Negro well digger who locates water with
a forked stick."
Or "The American Astronomical Society is
alarmed about certain Gypsy women who tell for
tunes by the stars."
Or "The makers of steam engines and gasoline
88 QUACKS
engines are alarmed about an inventor who is
about to perfect 'Perpetual Motion* and send their
engines to the junk pile."
As hill farmers, well-diggers, fortune tellers, and
inventors do not have press agents the public does
not hear about them.
The American Medical Association has one con
vention each year, and merely considers diseases
and their treatment. It does not make laws, nor
enforce laws, being organized as a corporation,
"not for profit."
Many of our spectacular men tell of hardships
and handicaps, like frail bodies, poverty and cruel
step-fathers.
Bernarr had all three.
Like A. T. Still, B. J. Palmer, Sidney Waltner,
Orvin Robertson and Jesse James, Bernarr was
raised in Missouri, and evidently "soaked up" cult-
ism. He was christened Bernard A. McFadden,
acquired the title of "Professor" by playing the
piano in places of amusement, and changed his
name to Bernarr MacFadden.
As a boy, he lived in a small town hotel, owned
by his relatives, attended a few terms of public
school, and did such work as was available in town,
or farms during crop seasons. At the age of 18
he came to St. Louis and worked in a grocery, later
in a print shop. Apparently a "steady job" was not
to his liking, so he tramped from town to town,
doing such odd jobs as stern necessity demanded.
He tarried a short time in a small college town
in Missouri, becoming professor of dust and ashes
BERNARR MACFADDEN 89
in the gymnasium, and later "coach," or athletic
instructor.
In 1893 Bernarr went to Chicago, remaining
there during the World's Pair. He promoted
wrestling matches and even did a little wrestling.
Here Bernarr met Eugene Sandow, advertised
as "The strongest man who ever lived on earth."
Sandow was doing feats of strength, posing for
pictures, lecturing on strength, and selling litera
ture. He could lift a horse, or bend a horse shoe
with his bare hands. His literature included in
struction about living to be 100 years old, but he
died at about half of that age.
Sandow had as his manager, one Florenze Zeig-
feld (masculine, if you please), who later became
famous as the exploiter of Ziegfeld's Follies, and
"Glorified the American girl" by undressing her.
Both Sandow and Zeigfeld made small fortunes
in this way during the World's Fair, and went to
New York after the Fair. Bernarr also went to
New York, and was soon having his picture taken
in classical poses, showing Greek or Roman ath
letes, but did not lift horses or break horse shoes.
Between posing jobs he worked as an attendant in
a Turkish bath, afterward becoming Assistant
Physical Director of the Manhattan Athletic Club
at $15 a week.
Here Bernarr learned that successful business
men sometimes suffer from overeating and lack
of exercise, and patented a device called the "Home
Exerciser." It was made of pulleys and rubber
cords; and two hours work would ruin it. This
90 QUACKS
was not a serious disadvantage as no one ever
used one of them two hours. The sale of the "Home
Exerciser," by mail, started Bernarr on the road
to financial success.
Having established a fixed income, Bernarr
turned to literature. His experience in the St.
Louis print shop evidently had made an impression
on him. Owing to his limited education, his "copy"
was not marketable. Then Bernarr discovered
that "he could hire all the college graduates he
wanted at twenty-five dollars a week." Since then
his writing has been done by proxy. Periodicals
whose editorial page carried the legend "Bernarr
MacFadden, Editor and Publisher," printed "Edi
torials" which Bernarr had not written or read,
or knew anything about until criticism came, when
Bernarr promptly denied all connection with the
paper, over his own signature.
Zeigfeld learned that a lot of folks in New York,
would pay $1 or more to look upon the unclad figures
of a few misguided young women, who could not act,
or sing or dance. Bernarr learned that a lot of folks
outside of New York would pay 10c to look at pic
tures of these same women. Both Zeigfeld and
Bernarr commercialized the "sex appeal" which has
ruined the movies. (See p. 180).
Bernarr's first periodical "Physical Culture,"
(noted for pictures of semi-nude women on its
outside front page), was established in 1898 in New
York. At that time the State of New York had
an organization called Society for the Suppression
BERNARR MACFADDEN 91
of Vice. This society was organized in 1873, hence
had been functioning for 25 years before "Physi
cal Culture" appeared. The chief function of the
society was suppressing obscene literature. The
statutes of New York and the postal laws relating
to obscene matter were drawn and passed through
the efforts of Anthony Comstock, the head of the
Society for the Suppression of Vice. Section 317.
Penal Code of New York, reads: "Any person who
sells, lends, gives away or shows any obscene, lewd,
lascivious, filthy, indecent or disgusting book, mag
azine, newspaper, picture, photograph, etc. . . .
shall be deemed guilty of a public offense and shall
be punished by law."
Under the supervision of Comstock, the society
made over 2,900 arrests. Prom its inception "Physi
cal Culture" ran afoul of this law, and Bernarr
hired a censor to decide just how bad a magazine
could be and not violate this law. In spite of the
censor, Bernarr was "pinched" in 1901. He had
promoted a beauty show (called a "Health Rally"),
of semi-nude women at Madison Square Garden.
While this was advertised as "Health uplift for
Suffering Humanity," it was advertised by posters
in saloons and free tickets to bartenders. While
he escaped punishment for this he decided to get
out of New York and moved across the state line
to New Jersey, but soon returned to New York
He acquired acre property near Spottswood and
established "Physical Culture City." Bernarr also
induced a restaurant owner to enter a scheme
92 QUACKS
of establishing a chain of Health Restaurants.
Physical Culture carried advertisements for said
restaurants. It also carried ads for a stock sell
ing scheme relating to a "chain of 50 restaurants"
which would pay 30 per cent—perhaps 50 per cent
—annual dividends. Stock was offered and sold
at $10 per share. The company in the first three
years paid one dividend of 5 per cent. The mana
ger of the chain of restaurants was one Gomar
Reese. When the company made a profit, Bernarr
and Gomar raised their own salaries to absorb
it. Meanwhile the stock passed into the hands of
Bernarr and Gomar and the chain of restaurants
contracted to one link—the original restaurant.
Physical Culture City was in the well known
mosquito and swamp district of New Jersey. "Ber
narr MacFadden Institute," a college for training
gymnasium teachers, was one of the proposed feat
ures. Bernarr advertised "Prepare yourself to earn
$100 a week (this was real money 25 years ago).
You can benefit your fellow men, and follow a pro
fession that will give you large financial returns.
Many teachers are earning $300 a week."
Bernarr's admirers bought his stock, his scholar
ships and his "home sites," where mosquitoes were
so large that a man needed medieval armor for
protection. Houses were built of store boxes and
scrap lumber. His students pledged themselves to
the simple life, all going barefooted, the girls wear
ing bloomers.
Bernarr set a good example by walking —bare
BERNARR MACFADDEN 93
footed —18 miles to his office. At least, he walked
long enough to have his picture taken walking to
work. However, as Bernarr was not worth much
in an editorial office, where $25-a-week college
graduates did the work, his time might as well be
spent walking.
Until the postal authorities prohibited sending
Physical Culture City ads by mail, said city was
advertised as being one hour's ride from New York
City. The only railroad to the town was a branch
line serving the coal mining section. It ran two
trains a day. A newspaper reporter stated that he
rode on the train, walked two miles, rode two miles
in a private conveyance and six miles on the street
cars—paying two fares, and that he was all day
making a round trip.
Students who paid cash for scholarships, worked
10 hours per day for $1.00, six days a week, taking
care of patients or guests. Students, unable to pay
tuition in cash, were given credit of $5.25 per week
and 75 cents in cash. Guests, or patients, paid
$18 per week for meals in advance. As they were
required to fast the first two weeks many were
unkind enough to complain and wanted their
money back.
The New York World wrote an expose of Physi
cal Culture City. Bernarr sued the World for
$50,000 and lost the case.
In 1907 Bernarr printed in Physical Culture a
serial story "Growing to Manhood in Polite Soci
ety." This led to his arrest for improper use of the
94 QUACKS
mails. On October 23, 1907, he was found guilty
by a jury and sentenced to pay a fine of $2000 and
serve two years in the Federal prison. By this
time Bernarr had too much money to go to prison.
The President of the United States pardoned him.
He paid the fine of $2,000. As Presidential pardons
come high no one knows what this cost Bernarr.
About this time a Dr. Malchow of Minneapolis, a
graduate of a school of medicine, wrote a book
'
Sexual Life," for the medical profession. In a
chapter "Sexual Habits in the Married," he dis
cussed certain practices and the evils resulting
therefrom. Like Bernarr, Dr. Malchow was ar
rested and found guilty and the matter was refer
red to the President
Malchow had little financial backing and the
President allowed him to go to the Federal prison.
To make sure of justice the publisher who printed
Malchom's book, also went to prison, and Bernarr,
who was both the author and publisher of the
other book went free.
On year later a young lady sued Bernarr for
printing her picture to her detriment and without
her permission. She obtained a verdict for $3,000.
Bernarr's next periodical was "True Stories,"
which reminds one of the man who was called
"Lucky Jim," because he never had any luck. After
True Stories came True Romances, Dream World,
Dance Lovers, Detective Mysteries, Modern Mar
riage and others. These magazines are kept full
of salacious matter, taken from correspondence
BERNARR MACFADDEN 95
which piles up in every magazine office. This cor
respondence is worked over by the same class of
college graduates which Bernarr formerly hired
at twenty-five dollars a week.
Now he pays them by the page for filling space.
Physical Culture for June, 1930, carried 143 ads
for "cures," including Tuberculosis, Baldness, Rup
ture, Deafness, Being too Fat, Being not Fat
Enough, Regeneration, Flat Feet, Osteopathy,
Chiropractic.
It also contained advertisements for 63 Mail
Order Courses; Instruction in Singing Swimming
and Boxing. Also a chance to get a tin star,
showing that the wearer is a detective. A dozen
or more articles relate to sex. And 60 advertise
ments for Bernarr's literature.
September 15, 1924, the MacFadden Publications,
Inc., began the publication of a daily tabloid, called
"The New York Evening Graphic," dealing largely
with accounts of sports, sex crimes, divorces and
police court scandals. As an aftermath of a recent
"exposure" Bernarr was sued by three individuals,
the suits aggregating four million dollars.
Every summer Bernarr takes a trainload of
friends to California as a part of his propaganda.
In June, 1930, they arrived in California on Ber
narr's 62nd birthday in time to witness the un
veiling of a $70,000 airplane beacon (which Ber
narr paid for) on a mountain designated as "Mac-
fadden Peak."
Any one who has viewed the relief map of Cali
96 QUACKS
fornia in the Ferry station at San Francisco, knows
that naming a mountain in California is not much
of a sacrifice.
When Ruth Snyder was electrocuted for the mur
der of her husband, The Graphic printed faked
interviews from the death house at Sing Sing. The
State of New York does not permit interviews with
condemned criminals.
Magazines of the MacFadden type could not exist
without Quack advertising. Bernarr's latest ac
quisition "Liberty" caters to the movie business.
Stories are "tried out on the dog" in print before
being made into films. When the "League of
Decency" took a stand against immoral movies the
movie crowd, appropriated $2,000,000,—not to clean
up the movies, but to "counteract fanatical opposi
tion." With 5,000 newspapers tottering on the verge
of bankruptcy, $2,000,000 can buy space anywhere.
High class weekly magazines, which a few years
ago scorned ads. for questionable commodities, are
now down on their knees begging for these same ads.
Publishers have material wants, their creditors
want interest on their mortgages, labor must be
paid, paper and ink cost money. Publishers must
either sell advertising or steal. Stealing is a viola
tion of the Mosaic code, also thieves are sometimes
caught and punished, hence selling space seems ex
pedient.
CHAPTER IX
CHIROPRACTIC
The Great American Joke
Chiropractic is a religon, it is the worship of B.
J. Palmer, Palmer encourages the idea by wearing
his hair and beard to resemble Christ ; and by hav
ing his pictures taken in a pose to imitate Christ in
the painting "Christ Before Pilate."
Chiropractic literature is full of comparisons
between Palmer and Christ, and between Chiro
practic and Christianity.
I have before me a copy of "The Chiropractor
and Clinical Journal" which Palmer prints each
month and sells to his dupes at 20 cents per copy.
It is a Journal of 72 pages, 26 of which are de
voted to advertising Palmer ideas, Palmer devices,
Palmer office furniture, and Palmer advertising
services.
One page advertises the Book "Palmer Tech
nic of Chiropractic," price $10.00, for sale by Pal
mer. I have seen the Book, there is about $9.40
profit in the $10.00 sale.
On the remaining 46 pages of the journal there
are 18 articles devoted to boosting B. J. Palmer,
knocking the medical profession and citing cures
—which if true would win the world for Chiro
98 QUACKS
practic in six months. In these eighteen articles
the name of B. J. Palmer, usually represented by
the Monogram B. J. P. appears 239 times. (It may
be more than 239 times, the boy who checked while
I counted was overworked and may have missed a
few.) There are also numerous references to the
editor and the fountain head, each of which means
Palmer. The frontispiece of the Journal is a full
page picture of a Circus elephant, on whose back
is a banner, "Christianity was opposed for Three
Centuries, but won. Chiropractic is also being per
secuted by selfishness and ignorance." On the next
page is the usual picture of Palmer in the Christ
before Pilate, pose. On the other pages are seven
teen comparisons between Palmer and Christ, or
between Chiropractic and Christianity.
A few samples are:
"When the Man of Galilee resisted, he founded a
religion which is a dream; when a man of Daven
port resisted, he founded an expression, a science,
which is a key to the realization of that same
dream."
"Jesus was a carpenter, B. J. Palmer also works
with his sleeves rolled up."
"B. J. Palmer made a ladder of his Cross."
"The Chiropractic principle either applies or not,
it is either right or wrong, Jesus Christ is either
Lord of all, or He is not Lord at all."
"God is in His Heaven and all is right with the
World, and we Chiropractors are not going to be
misled into thinking that things are all wrong."
Percy Abbott furnishes a poem of eight verses
CHIROPRACTIC 99
the last verse of which is:
"No wonder our Saviour met such ill behavior
From men who were twisting the Laws
At our next fall election, for the people's pro
tection
We'll grant chiropractors a board for their
cause."
Hazel Glass, D. C., Ph. C., of Seattle, Washington,
says: "It is more than love that I feel for B. J.
Palmer, I just worship him."
Hazel's middle name must be Nut.
There are also many references to Chiropractic
principles, and Innate Intelligence —whatever that is.
All of the above Bunk, Blasphemy and Egotism,
is from a single copy of a Journal, edited, printed
and sold by the Chiropractic Fountain Head of
Davenport, Iowa.
In theory Chiropractic is the "Adjusting of sub
luxations of the movable segments of the Spinal
Column" "discovered" by D. D. Palmer, father of
B. J. Palmer in 1895, three years after the Stills
had chartered "The American College of Osteopa
thy," at Kirksville, Mo. Both Still and Palmer
offered —for a consideration—to teach their dis
covery to others. Still had a very moderate stand
ard of education for his pupils; Palmer had none.
His early circulars tell of a man who could not
read and write, but who finished his Course and
become a successful Chiropractor. There is some
evidence that D. D. Palmer, was one of the early
100 QUACKS
"Diplomats of Osteopathy," but both Still and
Palmer deny this. Still claimed that Palmer ap
plied for admission to the Still school and was
rejected. Palmer hired James O. Strother, a Still
graduate to return to the Still school for a second
course, to be sure of Osteopathic ideas, and help
Palmer arrange his course.
Palmer also hired a Presbyterian preacher,
named Samuel H. Weed, to work with Palmer and
Strother. Weed coined the word "Chiropractic";
it is from a Greek root and means "to work with
the hands." In addition to using what Palmer and
Strother stole from Still, Weed used ideas from
Quimby and Mary Baker Eddy, and inserted some
Philosophy and Metaphysics. From the Bodyless
Transcendentalism of Christian Science, he jumped
over to the soulless Monism of Ernest Heckel, to
get the term "Innate Intelligence."
Weed certainly did a good job.
All that was new about Chiropractic was the
name, that was all that Palmer had to discover,
the rest of it came from other systems.
Still got his ideas from the Mormons, the Mor
mons got their ideas from the Shakers. The Sha
kers, like the Chiropractors believed that their
leader was the reincarnation of Jesus Christ.
In the early part of the Nineteenth Century the
Shakers were flourishing in Northern New York,
they had their "wonder workers" and believed in
"Healing by Prayer" and "Laying on of Hands."
One colony of Shakers moved to Maine. From
this colony came Phineas Quimby, whose pupil,
CHIROPRACTIC 101
Mary Baker Eddy, exploited Christian Science, as
being directly revealed to her.
The Mormons, Spiritualists and Seventh Day
Adventists were all organized in Northern New
York, and all of them were off-shoots or dissen-
tions from the Shakers.
The Mormons moved westward.
In 1840 they settled in Nauvoo, Ill., where they
founded a University and a printing plant.
Among other things they printed a paper "Mil-
lenial Star" which circulated among the fifteen
thousand Mormons in Missouri. Orsan Pratt, one
of the Mormon Elders and a teacher in the Uni
versity advertised in the "Millenial Star" "Bones
set through Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ."
The writing of Orsan Pratt and A. T. Still are
so much alike that no one will deny that Still fol
lowed Pratt's style of composition. The Mormons
were not popular among the Illinois people. In
1844 Jos. Smith, the founder of Mormonism and
his brother Hyrum, were arrested and placed in
jail at Carthage, Ill. A mob broke down the jail
door, and lynched them. Again the Mormons moved
westward, and established headquarters at Inde
pendence, Mo., now a suburb of Kansas City.
At this time A. T. Still was 20 years old and
teaching school in Missouri, hence it is easy to
understand why Pratt and Still wrote alike, and
how the Shaker ideas of healing came through the
Mormons to Still, Palmer, Sidney A. Weltmer, Ber
102 QUACKS
narr Macfaddin, and Orvin Robertson, while all
of them were boys growing up in Missouri.
Healing by Faith has always its limitations, the
patient must have a keen sense of perception —or a
keen sense of imagination —to be healed. To over
come any lack of imagination, faith healers usually
use some other agency like stump water, boiling
a nail in the milk you drink, or carrying a rabbit's
foot; on the same principle that physicians some
times use a "placebo" or dough pill, to impress the
patient. A. T. Still's "placebo" was "adjusting the
spine" which is just about as effective as trying
to warm your feet in the moonlight. Rubbing
the back is an old idea, nearly all tribes and races
have tried it. Only America has glorified it and
made it a system of healing.
When Captain James Cook, the English Naviga
tor, first explored the South Sea Islands, he re
ported that every chief had an attendant whose
duty was to rub the Chief's back. It was not sup
posed to cure disease, but was merely to furnish
exercise to an overfed Chief, who was too lazy to
get his exercise any other way.
For centuries the Chinese have massaged the
spine. The Japanese teach massaging to their
blind, who walk the streets at night, blowing a
whistle to notify their patrons of their presence.
All of us have seen a little pig rubbed on the
back with a. corn cob and noticed how the pig
enjoyed it, but no one has ever suggested rubbing
the pig on the back to cure hog cholera or worms.
Swedish movement and Bohemian massage had
CHIROPRACTIC 103
been used long before A. T. Still flung the "ban
ner of Osteopathy to the breeze." Also a sweat
bath followed by massage had been used in sober
ing up drunks and such treatments are still used
for faulty elimination, overworked office people,
and "Boiling out Boozefighters."
Chiropractors tell that D. D. Palmer, who owned
a fish market in Davenport, Iowa, and practiced
faith-healing as a side line, was treating a negro
for deafness, and discovered a "subluxation of the
vertebrae." The adjustment of this subluxation re
stored the Negroe's hearing. They proved this by
the Negro.
Folks who have dealt with Negroes do not con
sider them very competent as witnesses. The Ne
gro's testimony was probably better than Palmers,
but not worth much. At this time there were
probably 1,000 deaf persons in Davenport, but
neither the Negro or Palmer gave any reason for
neglecting the other 999.
The Chiropractor does not simply offer relief
by massage to the tired business man, or the fa
tigued woman as the masseur might do, but claims
to cure every human ailment by simply pressing
against the backbone, stating that all disease is
due to misplaced vertebrae. A Chiropractor ad
taken from a telephone directory gives a list of
57 diseases which can be cured by Chiropractic
treatments. The list includes locomotor ataxia,
epilepsy, rheumatism, tuberculosis, Brights disease
and diabetes. It is appalling to think of a self-
styled "Doctor" believing this. It is worse to think
104 QUACKS
that some victim of these diseases might be gulled
into believing it. Some of these diseases require
absolute rest in bed. Massage is not only useless,
but dangerous.
There are records of thousands of sudden deaths
of tubercular patients, pneumonia patients, dip-
theria patients and arteriosclerotic patients in
Chiropractors offices. In some instances the Chiro
practor left town without taking time to lock his
office.
"Christ before Pilate Palmer" is credited with
telling his followers that as Judas Iscariot car
ried the money bag Christ and the disciples were
charging for healing the sick. The thing that is
emphasized the most in Chiropractic literature is
getting the money —and getting it in advance. They
are referred to as "retailers of Chiropractic" and
encouraged in "Selling the methods of Chiroprac
tic."
However, in all my accumulation of Chiroprac
tic literature I have not found any comparison of
the financial condition of Christ and Palmer.
Christ said "The foxes have holes, the birds of
the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not
where to lay his head." Palmer has accumulated
many, many thousands of dollars and much prop
erty. Christ was buried in a borrowed grave; to
avoid any such happening at his death Palmer car
ries a million dollars in Life insurance.
If a Chiropractor took a pencil and paper and
tried to demonstrate that two and two did not
make four, his patients would walk out of his office
CHIROPRACTIC 105
and spend the rest of the day laughing at his the
ory.
Every day the Chiropractor tells his patients
things, which are just as absurd as that two and
two do not make four; and he gets away with it.
There are certain fundamental, biological princi
ples which are just as simple, and just as clear
to a man trained in anatomy as the sum in simple
addition. Since A. T. Still first advanced the theory
of "adjusting subluxations of movable segments
of the vertebrae" physicians have conducted thous
ands of post mortems and dissected thousands of
spines without finding the slightest evidence of
such a thing as a subluxation. Astute young grad
uates of Medical colleges posing as students of
Osteopathy and Chiropractic, have spent months
at Kirksville and Davenport) without getting a
single idea which was not already well understood
by the medical profession.
Also these men have learned that a Chiroprac
tor—even if he attends a recognized Chiropractic
school—may get his diploma without seeing a dis
section or a cadaver. The text book on Anatomy
used at Davenport was written by the wife of
B. J. Palmer. Just where she acquired her knowl
edge of anatomy has never been made clear to the
general public. Anatomy is taught without a ca
daver or a skeleton, by using a miniature spine
made of aluminum. The miniature spine is one
idea which the Chiropractors did not steal from
Osteopaths. The Osteopaths stole it from the Chi
ropractors.
106 QUACKS
Chiropractors who learn their limitations and
use agencies other than adjusting the spine are
called "mixers" to distinguish them from the
"straight" chiropractors who only follow Palmer's
ideas.
A favorite stunt of the "mixer" is to give the
patient a dose of morphine in a glass of cold water,
with suggestion "you look tired, let me give you a
glass of water." By the time the adjustment is
over the morphine is working, the patient leaves
the office "hitting on every cylinder" sleeps well
that night and tells her friends how much good
Chiropractic is doing for her.
A pint of bootleg whiskey weighs a pound and
is just about a day's supply for an alcoholic. An
ounce of bootleg morphine can be carried in the
vest pocket and will make almost two thousand
doses, an ounce is a year's supply and will make
two thousand Chiropractic boosters contented and
happy. It is true that dispensing morphine is a
violation of the law, but what is a violation of the
law to a man who is practicing medicine without a
license. The above comparison of the Chiroprac
tor and the bootlegger is an unkind reflection on
the bootlegger; if any of my bootlegger friends
read this, I hope they will not take offense at it.
Both the "straight" Chiropractor and the "mix
er" adjust by working on the bare back.
The same subluxation produces the same ailment
in both sexes, except that diseases peculiar to
women are produced by a subluxation at the low
CHIROPRACTIC 107
est portion of the spinal column. Woman, poor
woman, has an extra subluxation and a lot of ail
ments which the men "know not of."
For years we have heard of the woman who
bared her naked soul before the jury to save some
one on trial for murder, now we have the woman
who bares her naked back before the Chiropractor.
Just why any man should want some other
man rubbing his wife on the bare back is a mystery
even in these days of the emancipation of women.
In 1922 Palmer's School at Davenport had 3,000
students, who spent $3,000,000 in Davenport, hence
Palmer run the town. Palmer's faculty—seeing the
profits of Quackery —went to other cities and start
ed rival schools until there were a hundred and
fifty or more schools. A 1922 Palmer School cata
logue, said to be an edition of 250,000, does not
discuss the number of students, neither does it inti
mate that any educational requirements are neces
sary. This catalogue was sent to nurses, barbers,
mechanics, street car men, carpenters and clerks.
I have one which was sent to a man who worked
at night at a lunch counter. At my suggestion he
wrote a letter of inquiry, purposely misspelled and
poorly written, saying that he had a poor educa
tion, but an aunt had died recently and left him
$2,000, and he wanted to be a Chiropractor. From
his letter they could see that he had ability and
would win.
On page 49 of this catalogue is the statement,
"Many of our graduates have built up practices
108 QUACKS
aggregating an annual income of $15,000. Some
have even doubled this success." This catalogue
is also sent to preachers and teachers, followed
by a series of convincing letters. Most of this
seems to be done to make boosters of this class of
public servants, rather than enrolling them as stu
dents, and many persons of this class are good
boosters. A man enters the ministry for life and
would hardly change his calling. Anyhow, what
would a preacher do with an annual income of
$30,000? The catalogue of the Texas School of
Chiropractic says, "Some of our graduates have
annual incomes running into six figures."
Other catalogues from other schools are not so
extravagant about incomes. One says, "In a few
months we can fit you for a profession, your earn
ings should be $3,000 to $5,000."
The following advertisement is from a Sunday
edition of the Memphis Commercial Appeal:
BE INDEPENDENT —Chiropractic doctors
earn $3,000 to $6,000 yearly; work for your
self; this good paying profession quickly
learned by correspondence; low rates; easy
terms; illustrated book free. American Uni
versity, 803 Botsford Bldg., Chicago.
It has been run in nearly every city daily in the
United States.
Of course, this sort of bait will catch lots of
suckers. I have talked to dozens of farmer boys
whose fathers put them through a course, and
bought their office furniture only to find that they
CHIROPRACTIC 109
had been bunkoed and that Chiropractic would
not cure anybody with a real ailment.
During the Summer of 1933, while sojourning in
a hotel in Binghampton, N. Y., I learned that the
night clerk, the Western Union operator, and one
of the "bell hops" were all Ex-chiropractors.
It is only fair to say that more than half of the
graduates of Chiropractic schools, either do not
open an office, or if they do open an office, close
it in a very short time. I have heard some very
pathetic stories from some of these poor fellows.
One very pathetic story, I heard from a young
man living in the Y. M. C. A. at Birmingham, Ala.
He said he had spent his time and money studying
Chiropractic, and learned that he must practice
in violation of the law, without a license. He said
his whole life had been ruined. I was not sur
prised, a few weeks later, to learn that he had
committed suicide.
Dr. Lindlahr, president of the Chicago Chiro
practic College, gave me an autographed copy of
his book, "How to live to be 100 years old." They
buried him long ago at the age of 60. His book is
merely a sample of Chiropractic enthusiasm. They
are long on enthusiasm, around all of their col
leges, but a graduate loses his enthusiasm soon
after he opens an office and learns that he is help
less in the presence of disease. I have listened to
many, many hard luck stories from Chiropractors,
men whose wives or whose fathers have paid for
their training, as well as those who have given
110 QUACKS
up some honest business to become Chiropractors.
Some of them have cried over their misfortunes.
Some of them have threatened to return to Daven
port and shoot B. J. Palmer, or pull out his whis
kers and beat him into a raw, unsightly pulp. Some
admit that they are crooks but will stay on the
job while the easy money lasts. Some propose
to go to school and become M. D.'s. Many are
non-committal or insist that Chiropractic adjust
ments, if continued long enough will cure any
thing.
Meanwhile the schools are sending forth their
graduates to sow seeds of ignorance, superstition
and fanaticism, and reap as easy prey the credu
lous weaklings, the maimed, the halt, the lame and
the blind, with the fraudulent promise of a cure,
paid for in advance.
The price for the full three year course in Pal
mer's school is $500—tuition only, and gives the
student the degree of "doctor of Chiropractic,"
"covers eighteen months," but can be covered in
twelve months. If the pupil makes a certain grade
he gets the degree for Ph. C. in addition.
There are now more than 100 systems of drug-
less healing, and mail order diplomas a drug on the
market.
In states where legislation banned Chiropractic,
the name was changed. Hence, around Chicago
we find Napropaths, in Connecticut and Florida
we find Naturapaths. The state of Washington
has Sanipractors, including a school of Saniprac
CHIROPRACTIC 111
tice. The dean of this school found a woman scrub
bing the floor of an office building. She had $3.75
in cash and for this sum the dean made her a
Doctor of Sanipractic.
For years an old preacher in Elgin, Illinois, has
sold Osteopathic diplomas for $25 each to Chiro
practors. A $25 diploma in a $10 frame will soon
pay for itself and gives the Chiropractor another
chance to lie about his training.
Another diploma which is likely to be on the
walls of the Chiropractors office, is "Doctor of Op
tometry." It costs $10 and "covers the science of
refracting and fitting glasses."
$100 for diplomas and $50 for framing them will
add greatly to a Chiropractors armamentarium.
However, these documents do not make a man
competent any more than a course of religious
training by mail will make a rascal into an honest
man.
The Palmer School uses one standard medical
text book, "Dorland's Medical Dictionary," and the
Chiropractor's knowledge of medical terms comes
from that book. In a few weeks any persons of
average intelligence can memorize a few hundred
medical words and repeat them parrot fashion. The
mere fact that a man can say "the eye is the
physiological mechanism of the sense of sight,"
does not carry with it the ability to determine that
another man is going blind. Neither does the repe
tition of a "ganglion is an aggregation of nerve
cells forming a unit of the central nervous sys
112 QUACKS
tem," mean that rubbing on the back will cure a
sprained ankle or grow hair on a bald head.
Chiropractic is not a system of healing, it never
healed anybody, a person may have recovered from
an ailment—real or imaginary —while under the
Chiropractor's treatment, but that was only a co
incident. Chiropractic is in no sense a profession.
It is merely a scheme by which unscrupulous sharp
ers induce men, usually men of little education,
and with a dwarfed sense of moral obligation, to
learn the tricks of disreputable trade quackery.
Under the pretext that they are not practicing
medicine, the paid emmisaries of the drugless cults
have prevailed on the legislature of some of our
states, to pass laws granting them a limited license.
This is usually "the right to treat human ailments,
without administering medicine internally or ex
ternally, and without puncturing the tissues." This
limitation is dangerous, as the prompt use of a
drug or a surgical procedure may save the life of
the patient. In sickness there is always a possi
bility of a serious ailment and delay may be dan
gerous. Nearly every fire starts with a blaze so
small that a bucket of water would quench it. That
is why we have high powered fire trucks, they
must reach the scene before the fire gets beyond
control. Practically every human ailment, if de
tected soon enough would respond to medical treat
ment. A few weeks time wasted with the Chiro
practor may get the patient to the stage where a
cure is impossible, to say nothing about the possi
bility of exposing the whole neighborhood to a
contagious disease.
CHIROPRACTIC 113
Under the present laws Chiropractors can be
given a limited license in many states by passing
an examination. They refuse to submit to this
examination, and practice without a license.
The present age is an age of mechanical appli
ances and all of us are more or less familiar with
mechanics. The "drugless healer" compares the
human body to a machine, talks glibly about the
brakes not holding, faulty adjustment and articu
lation. About the time you expect him to say that
he has a lot of livers, lungs and kidneys in stock
and can replace worn out ones, he switches off
to the necessity of a long series of adjustments,
"as your case is very unusual, etc." While certain
mechanical principles apply to the body, it is not
a machine. A machine is metal, a part broken or
worn out can be replaced and the machine made
as good as new. A human body is flesh and blood,
and bone and sinew—all living matter—when a
vital part is worn out, the body fails to function,
and we take it to the cemetery.
CHIROPRACTIC CURES
Giving Chiropractic treatment to a person with
a real ailment is about as effective as throwing a
rubber bone to a hungry dog. Chiropractic ad
justments never have cured anybody, and never
will.
The blood and tissues carry a considerable de
gree of immunity to disease; and when the vitality
is lowered by exposure or indiscretion we become
114 QUACKS
susceptible to the germs of disease. It is only when
the vitality is lowered that we sicken or die. Prac
tically all diseases are caused by germs; to deny
this is as absurd as to deny that two and two make
four. Rest, sanitation and medicine increase our
immunity. Nearly all of our diseases are "self-
limited" and the natural' tendency is toward re
covery.
Bacteriology is an exact science. A trained bac
teriologist with a microscope will detect the pres
ence of germs on a specimen as readily as a farmer
can detect a drove of hogs in his sweet potato
patch.
And a trained bacteriologist will distinguish the
germs of hook worms from the germs of diphtheria
as readily as a farmer can distinguish a Jersey
cow from a Leghorn chicken.
As a witness in defense of Chiropractic, B. J.
Palmer, testified in court. "Chiropractors do not
believe in bacteria, and bacteriology is the great
est of gigantic farces"
What awful things people will do for money.
The germs of malaria, yellow fever, diphtheria,
typhoid and small pox are as real as Jersey cattle
or Leghorn chickens, the difference is only in size.
And rubbing a man on the back would not rid him
of these germs any more than it would rid him of
Cooties.
Each class of bacteria give their own character
istic phases to disease. These are called symptoms.
The presence of several classes of bacteria—and
CHIROPRACTIC 115
their symptoms —are referred to as complications.
In furnishing our animal economy nature has
been generous, even extravagant. For many func
tions the animal mechanism is doubled. Many of
our organs are "bi-lateral" or two-sided and we
use only half of them. A man with one good eye
can probably see everything worth seeing. A man
who has only one good ear gets along so well that
only his close friends know of the defect. The
removal of one kidney has no apparent effect on
health. Because of accident or disease, men have
gotten along nicely with only half of their origi
nal brain. A man can live on one-fourth of his
normal lung capacity. The pancreas, an organ
more essential to digestion than the stomach, is
ten times as large as necessary. In view of these
facts it is easy to understand how a sick person
can recover in spite of Chiropractic treatments.
The Chiropractors and their friends tell us that
they are not practicing medicine, yet insist that
they are curing all manner of diseases, and cite
cases to prove this.
In May, 1920, the country was flooded with Chir
opractic advertising, claiming that don Jamie, the
second son of King Alfonso, of Spain, had been
cured of deafness by Chiropractic treatment. All
over the U. S. the Sunday editions of daily papers
carried full page ads. Reprints of these ads were
piled up in Chiropractors offices, poked under doors
and pasted on billboards. Don Jamie was born
deaf, he will be deaf until he dies, because a part
of his middle ear is missing.
116 QUACKS
There are over six million deaf or partially deaf
persons in the U. S., three million of them being
of school age. Why go all the way to Spain to get
a subject. The dean of one of the leading Chiro
practic colleges is deaf. They might work on him.
An amusing phase of this incident was that both
Chiropractors and the Osteopaths used this adver
tisement. The Osteopaths said the cure had been
affected by J. Johnson May, Osteopath. The Chiro
practors claimed the cure was by J. Johnson May,
Chiropractor. As the prince was not cured or
benefitted it does not seem harsh to say that both
the Osteopaths and Chiropractors lied about it.
Sometime ago the Chicago papers printed a story
of a lapse of memory, and its cure in a small city
in Wisconsin. The man who had the lapse was
a doer of odd jobs, who came to town a few months
before, bringing with him a woman who passed
as his wife. As he was not making a living, the
woman soon left. After his "cure" the man re
membered that he had another name, another wife
and another home in Illinois. An investigation
showed that he had sold a borrowed horse in Illi
nois to get enough money to bring the woman to
Wisconsin. His former neighbors in Illinois were
a cold-blooded bunch. They not only refused te
believe his lapse of memory, but assured him that
they had warrants for desertion and selling the
horse, and would arrest him if he returned to Illi
nois.
However, it made a good story and the Chiro
CHIROPRACTIC 117
praetors are still using it. Some folks were un
kind enough to say the man was paid for the story,
this seems likely, as he had no money and Chiro
practors collect in advance.
A "Man about town" in a small city in Central
Texas, owned a Ford car and an accident policy.
The Ford was a disreputable ruin of its original
grandeur, and the policy was one of those compli
cated affairs, which no one reads and understands.
It gave a vague, indistinct promise of indemnity
in case of accidental loss of vision, loss of hearing,
loss of one arm, etc. with a promise of double pay
ment if the accident occurred while riding in a
"motor driven" vehicle. As might be expected the
man had an accident while riding in the car. He
claimed to be totally blind, totally deaf, one arm
paralyzed. He was taken to a hospital, where a
dozen doctors examined him without finding ex
ternal marks of violence. They did not understand
his case until they had learned of the accident
policy. After he had been sent home from the
hospital, he was examined by another doctor an
old man who had no access to the hospital.
This doctor signed a statement saying that he
had examined the patient and found him totally,
permanently blind, permanently deaf and that he
would never use his right arm again.
Armed with this certificate he demanded from
the insurance company the payment for loss ot
vision, loss of hearing, loss of one arm, with
double compensation. Rather than take chances
118 QUACKS
with a trial by jury the insurance company com
promised.
They paid him only a small part of his claim,
but it was more money than he had ever seen out
side of a bank. While he had been sure of perma
nent disability before the settlement, he appar
ently had not lost hope. In a few weeks, he was
cured by a Chiropractor and the case cited all over
the United States in Chiropractic literature.
Here was a man with a doctor's certificate prov
ing that he was blind, deaf and paraliyed, cured
by a chiropractor. What better evidence could be
shown.
Last year, a Chiropractor's office in a small Wes
tern city, was raided by prohibition officers with
a search warrant.
They did not find whiskey but found a card in
dex with case histories of 160 patients, represent
ing 47 diseases marked "cured." These were chased
down, more than half of the persons could not be
found. Twenty-two of them were dead. Nine of
them were in hospitals for neurotics and insane
persons. Only one person was found who was ac
tually well. She was a hysterical woman, who had
had only an imaginary ailment.
Every Chiropractor has his cured patients. A
dozen Chiropractors may have several dozen cured
patients, each cured of a different disease. In
studying these it is easy to see one of two things.
(1) The patient did not have the disease they
claimed to have.
CHIROPRACTIC 119
■
(2) They were not cured.
The Chiropractor will never be taken seriously
until they limit their cure to a few diseases and
cure more than one case.
I have before me a copy of the Chiropractic
Educator. It is four pages and does not carry
any date line.
The front page has a picture of a woman living
in an obscure town in Texas, who was blind in her
left eye. Seventeen adjustments and "her sight
was perfectly normal."
Another page tells of a woman in Michigan who
was dying of tuberculosis. Under Chiropractic treat
ments she became well and gained 53 pounds in
four months. A letter sent to the address given
was returned unopened, and the Mayor of the town
advised me that he had never heard of the woman
or the cure. Perhaps she has a job as fat woman
in a side show.
Page three tells of a man in California who had
a lame leg. After Chiropractic treatment the lame
leg was stronger than the other one. The state
ment does not say whether he proposes to have
the other leg worked on or not.
If one cure in twenty was real, patients would
be lined up at the Chiropractor's office like ticket
buyers at a box office.
We have quite a few people who crave the lime
light. Such people will give a testimonial for any
thing.
The winner of a recent prize fight has author
120 QUACKS
ized full page ads in which he states that his vic
tory was due to having his spine adjusted.
The wives of two members of United States
Congress have recently had their photos in full
page ads for patent medicines.
Movie stars, athletes and authors are always giv
ing testimonials, always being cured of something.
No one objects to this, but to expect the same agen
cies to cure other folks is a tax on human credulity.
Any one with a chronic ailment may be excused
for trying anything which promises a cure—or
even relief.
During any epidemic of Infantile Paralysis Chi
ropractors will advertise "immunity treatment"
for $5. It would take a very mean man to deny
his child "immunity" when it only cost $5. Only
one child in 500 is likely to be effected
hence the Chiropractors get away with this.
THE NEUROCALMETER
The Palmer School not only sells, degrees, but
also legal advice and protection, adjusting tables,
office furniture, advertising, books and charts. Un
til recently the "straight" Chiropractor has bought
everything without question.
There was always something new to get the
Chiropractor's money. If B. J. could put a $15 a
week man into a line which paid him $200 a week,
anything B. J. had to offer was accepted. Hence
the Neurocalmeter.
The Neurocalmeter, like most other Chiroprac
CHIROPRACTIC 121
tic devices is owned by B. J. Palmer. It is a small
box containing a battery and a dial or indicator.
Attached to the battery is an insulated wire which
carries a current to a movable handle, having two
prongs. The box is placed on a table in such a
position that the patient (victim) can see the
dial.
The movable handle is passed up and down the
naked back to locate "impigned nerves." The con
tact with the naked back forms a circuit between
the two prongs. The battery buzzes and the needle
of the dial vibrates. The patient feels, hears and
sees and is impressed. This is called "Spinal analy
sis" and all it costs is $5.
The dial of the Neurocalmeter is a thermome
ter. The temperature of the human body is 99 de
grees. The average office temperature is from
65 to 70 degrees. The Neurocalmeter merely
shows that the human body is warmer than the
office. The buzzing is to impress the patient. No
current goes through the Neurocalmeter.
The cost of manufacturing the Neurocalmeter
is about $25, but it is not sold for $25.
Not on your life.
It is not sold at all, it is leased from the Palmer
School of Chiropractic for 10 years. The original
lease was $62 per year, payable in advance. This
was so easy that the price was raised until the
lease price was $250 per year for 10 years.
This led to an insurrection in the ranks of the
Chiropractors —there seems to be a limit to gulla
122 QUACKS
bility even among Chiropractors. The "Straight
Chiropractor" still pays Palmer $250 a year rent
on a device costing $25. But Palmer has lost his
grip, and there are now three branches in the Chir
opractic field, with considerable lack of harmony
between them, as each branch is fighting the other
two. %\
Palmer called a meeting of representatives of
the three branches in Cincinnati in September,
1927. They met and had an old fashioned Metho
dist Love Feast, but the breach is not healed, and
will not be, and it all happened because Palmer
wanted to charge $2500 rent on a $25 device, which
is absolutely worthless as a means of treating the
sick.
CHARLIE PALOTTA, CHIROPRACTOR
For ten years Charlie Palotta operated a tailor
shop in Jackson, Mississippi. He was a capable
tailor and made a comfortable living at his trade.
Besides being capable and energetic, he was re
ligious, ambitious, resourceful and unscrupulous.
He was married, belonged to the Odd Fellows
and the Methodist Church. On several occasions
Charlie tried to join some of the Masonic orders,
but each time the orders refused to accept him.
Nevertheless, Charlie appeared on the streets of
Jackson, wearing a Masonic pin. On being ques
tioned by members of the Order which rejected
him, Charlie convinced them that he was a mem
ber, in good standing, of Lynch Lodge, affiliated
with Stringer Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, Mis
CHIROPRACTIC 123
sissippi York Rite, Ancient Free and Acceptable
Colored Masons, and that he enjoyed the distinc
tion of being the only White member of said Negro
lodge.
In 1916, Charlie, being moved by zeal for the
souls of his fellowmen, and the opportunity of
collecting money, began to preach on the streets.
He acquired a few followers and bass drum, which
constituted the Lord's Gospel army, and always
needed money for a poor family or a sick child. His
zeal prompted him to collect money to bury a citi
zen who was not dead. The mayor of Jackson did
not appreciate Charlie's efforts and forbade him
preaching on the streets. Charlie divorced his wife
and shook the dust of Jackson from his feet.
An itinerant preacher appeared on the streets
of Clarksdale. He prayed lustily and pushed col
lections, and announced that General Palotta of the
Lord's Gospel Army was coming. The General
came, he wore an elaborate purple suit, trimmed
with gold braid. Charlie evidently had a lot of
original ideas about tailoring and used all of them
in this suit.
Clarksdale welcomed the General, a reception
committee composed of one husky policeman met
him and took him to police headquarters. Charlie
agreed that if no charges were made against him,
he would leave the state.
In 1921 newspapers in Princeton and Pon du
Lac, Wisconsin, announced that Chas. G. Palotta,
Chiropractor, was in their midst, and started the
124 QUACKS
maimed, the halt, the lame and the blind towards
Charlie's office.
For $200 payable in advance, Charlie agreed to
cure a young man of epilepsy. Chiropractic treat
ments were of no avail, so Charlie gave the young
man two walnuts to carry in the pockets of a cer
tain silk shirt, and put on him a silk collar with
gold tassels. This also failed and Charlie was
arrested for obtaining money under false pretense.
His defense was that the treatment was so absurd
that no person of average intelligence would have
been deceived by it. He was sentenced to serve
one year in the state prison. The sentence was
affirmed by the Supreme court of Wisconsin and
is recorded in Northwestern Law Reporter, Vol.
199, Page 72. Charlie's defense cost $1200 and
shows why the Chiropractor's Defense League
needs money.
This Chapter reproduced as a pamphlet.
1 Copy by mail, postpaid, 20c
100 Copies, by mail, postpaid, $5.00
Chas. W. Warner, Jackson, Mississippi
CHAPTER X
OSTEOPATHY
Osteopathy is the most pernicious form of quack
ery in the country today, being merely a scheme
whereby incompetent men endeavor to slip into
the practice of medicine through the back door. It
had its inception in ignorance, and has been kept
alive by fraud and deception. The original oste
opathic course covered a period of four months.
It was strictly a "back rubbing" proposition. When
the folly and futility of this became apparent, the
course was lengthened; other ideas and text books
being taken from Schools of Medicine. Also they
have acted as scavangers in the field of theraputics,
adopting proceedures which had been discarded by
ethical physicians. (See p. 130.)
In considering the osteopath we must consider
every phase of preparation from the original course
of four months, to the present course in a third
class school.
An Osteopath is a Physician and Surgeon who
received his (or her) training in a third class or
a fourth class Medical College.
He believes, or pretends to believe, that he re
ceived more thorough training in a third class or
fourth class school than other men received in
126 QUACKS
first class school, and boasts of his superior train
ing.
He believes, or pretends to believe, that all hu
man ailments are due to subluxations or displace
ments of the vertebrae and can be cured by adjust
ing or replacing said vertebrae.
He believes, or pretends to believe, that this the
ory or system was withheld from the human ken
from the dawn of creation to be revealed to An
drew Taylor Still, reverently called "The Old Doc
tor," fifty odd years ago, handed down like the ten
commandments.
He believes, or pretends to believe, that Andrew
Taylor Still was an M. D., a graduate of a Medical
School and an Army Surgeon during the Civil War.
Any fair minded man who has education enough
to finish the limited course of training given in Os
teopathic Schools must realize before he finishes
the course that the whole theory and system of
Osteopathy is a fraud, and that all of the above
beliefs are untrue.
Medical Colleges are graded according to their
equipment, their curriculum and their faculty. No
Osteopathic School is above the third class, some
below. Their equipment and curriculum are similar
to first-class schools but lack thoroughness; and
their faculties are composed of their own gradu
ates. Having appropriated to their own use stan
dard medical books, the books used are the same
as those used in first class schools. The standard
of admission to a first class school of medicine is
OSTEOPATHY 127
a High School diploma and two years of pre-medi-
cal work in college. The standard of admission of
a school of Osteopathy is a High School diploma,
or "its equivalent,'' said equivalent sometimes be
ing "business experience" or "mature judgment."
Also an Osteopath who graduated years ago, when
the admission requirements were merely being
able to read and write, can always return to school
for instruction and be given advanced standing.
They do return because state requirements are
often changed and post-graduate work gives them
special privileges. Hence, several diplomas may
be given to the same person at different times and
each diploma counts one more graduate.
A recent decision by a state court was that an
osteopath who had been taught surgery in school
could do surgery in his practice. When this de
cision was given nearly every osteopath in the
state went back to school, and took a short course
in Surgery. Special courses including Tonsilectomy,
Varicose Veins and Ingrown toenails were added to
the colleges. Over night, the drugless, bloodless
Osteopath became the worst kind of a fee splitting
Surgeon.
In 1929, the schools of Osteopathy installed a
Chair of Materia Medica —calling it Comparative
Therapeutics—and there is now pending in half
a dozen states, legislation which will permit the
Osteopath to use drugs. It is only a question of
time when they drop the term "Osteopathy."
Some years ago, the writer visited the parent
128 QUACKS
school at Kirksville, Missouri, and learned that
there were two cadavers available for dissection
by six hundred students. Each class had its own
dissecting room, not open to members of the other
classes, hence it was necessary to bribe the janitor,
or corrupt one or more members of each class to
get this information. Also the graduating class
had not seen a labor case. Kirksville is a country
town of seven thousand, with no clinical material,
and no thrifty farmer would permit his wife to
become a subject in the amphitheatre and give
birth to a child before two hundred students.
Also the writer learned, on this trip, that students
of Osteopathy bring more than a million dollars to
Kirksville every year; and the business men of
Kirksville, who get this million, don't like to have
Osteopathy investigated.
There is no such thing as a subluxation of the
vertebrae. A segment of a man's backbone could
not be moved even if you put him in a vise and
used a Stilson wrench on him. Any reasonable
person can verify this by inspecting a carcass of
beef the next time he goes to a butcher's shop.
However, "adjusting the spine" is an excellent
"sales talk" for a crooked vendor of Quakery, and
is no longer considered seriously, except as a
"sales talk." Another part of the "sales talk" is,
"your case is unusual, you will require two months
attention, my fee will be $50, you must pay half
of that in advance."
Since A. T. Still advanced the theory of sublux
OSTEOPATHY 129
ated vertebrae, physicians have conducted thou
sands of postmortems and dissected thousands of
spines without finding any such thing as a sublux
ation. Astute young graduates of schools of medi
cine have posed as students of Osteopathy and
paid tuition to enter Osteopathic schools, without
seeing a subluxation.
An Osteopathic boom sheet printed Oct., 1933
says: If your condition has been pronounced incur
able by practictioners of regular medicine, it is well
to remember that you may find relief in Osteo
pathy." A man who can lie like that should be a
press agent in Hollywood.
A. T. Still wrote in 1897, "Shame on the doctor
who cuts a woman like a Christmas hog." Also,
"To administer drugs is to accuse God of incapa
city." George V. Webster, president of the Ameri
can Osteopathic Association in 1928 wrote: "There
are diseases which need surgical attention, anaes
thetics are an absolute necessity. A parasite re
quires an antiseptic; a poison demands an anti
dote." It is evident that the Osteopaths have learned
a whole lot in the last thirty years.
The opening paragraph in a 300 page book on
Osteopathy, written by A. T. Still, is "I quote no
authors but God and experience. Books compiled
by Medical Authors, can be of little use to us, and
it would be very foolish to look to them for advice
and instruction on a science of which they know
nothing." The 1934 Catalogue of Kirksville College
of Osteopathy (the largest school) lists 97 required
text books all but 5 of them were written by M. D.'s.
130 QUACKS
A definition of Osteopathy printed in 1900, taken
from their own literature, is: "Osteopathy is a
method of treating disease by manipulations, the
purpose of which is to restore to normal condition
of the nerve control and blood supply to every
organ of the body by removing physical obstruc
tions or by stimulating or inhibiting functional
activity as the condition may require. . . ."
This is the way they felt about it, in 1900, eight
years after the Still family had commercialized
rubbing the back. The Annual Catalogue of the
Kirksville School of Osteopathy issued in 1932,
by Geo. M. Laughlin who married a daughter of
A. T. Still says: —"contrary to the opinion of many
who are uninformed, Osteopathy has never been a
drugless school of practice."
George is one of those ambitious American boys
who married the daughter of the boss, and took over
the business. He was graduated in 1900 and be
came Dean of the school, the same year. He is now
Chief Surgeon.
President of the College Faculty.
President of the Board of Trustees.
President of the Officers of Administration.
He also has a hospital and an athletic field named
for him. George sure is a "go getter."
In 1915, when the Harrison Narcotic Bill became
effective, there was a clamor of protest from the
Osteopaths all over the country, not requesting,
but demanding the right to give morphine, a dead
ly drug, and their paid lobbyists rode rough-shod
OSTEOPATHY 131
into the Legislative Halls in nearly every state
in the Union, trying to secure this right for them.
Their demand centered around the statement
f*We are licensed to treat Human ailments, and
cannot treat them without using morphine."
The original theory of Osteopathy, in its last
analysis is merely massage, which is only suitable
for overfed, middle aged people, who are too busy
or too lazy to take exercise. A society woman who
is "cured" by Osteopathy would do equally well if
she did the family washing and got up a good
sweat once a week.
Also Osteopathy affords an opportunity for Spin
sters, Widows and Neglected Wives to have a man
rub them on the bare back. After all, women are
only flesh and blood and are entitled to some priv
ileges.
In 1929, the Schools of Osteopathy added to their
curriculum a Chair of Medicine. Then, and not
until then, did they become Schools of Medicine—
none of them higher than third class. It is only a
question of a short time when they drop the word
Osteopath. The Osteopath adds to his qualifica
tions (on paper), physician, surgeon, optometrist,
chiropodist, and dietetic expert. To this the wo
man Osteopath adds hair-dresser, masseur, and
beauty treatments; also, many of them are using
and advertising fake treatments like the Abrams'
Outfit, Auto-hemic therapy, Koch's Cancer Cure,
Beide Corrections for Bunions, Normal Vision with
out Glasses, and Colonic Irrigation, all of which
were turned down by the physicians.
132 QUACKS
Osteopathy has not given to the profession a
single idea which is new, or which was not al
ready understood by the medical profession, and
neither has Osteopathy produced any medical lit
erature. When a new subject was added, a book
written by an M. D., has been appropriated and
used as a text book. However, in the last fifty
years Osteopathy has circulated tons and tons of
literature about alleged cures by Osteopaths, about
Osteopathic skill and about A. T. Still, M. D., Army
Surgeon.
A. T. Still in his own writing stated that he was
an Army Surgeon under Fremont, that he "at
tended the Kansas City School of Physicians and
Surgeons in the early sixties" (long before the
school was organized —when there was no medical
school in Kansas City), and wrote articles for
magazines with country-wide circulation, signing
his name A. T. Still, M. D. None of these things
were true, but they have been circulated by the
Osteopaths for fifty years and are still being used
in Osteopathic Catalogues and in Osteopathic lit
erature. No one has ever seriously undertaken
to deny these statements; even critics of the sys
tem have accepted them as true. By abstracting
Osteopathic literature, consulting records of Kan
sas and Missouri, and the U. S. Government, any
painstaking person will be amused and surprised
to learn how much fraud has been passed off for
truth.
Having gone into this matter carefully, the wri
ter states, without fear of contradiction, that A. T.
OSTEOPATHY 133
Still was a half-baked old fraud. He never attended
a medical college and never was an army surgeon.
He probably acquired the title of Doctor by dis
pensing drugs in a general store. This happened
often when medical legislation was enacted in the
middle west. New laws provided that men prac
ticing medicine at the time the law was enacted
need not pass an examination, but must register
at the County seat. Along with the doctors came
proprietors of drug stores and proprietors of gen
eral stores who sold whisky, cathartics, quinine
and patent medicines; and occasionally a barten
der, to register as physicians.
Mary Baker Eddy, Bernarr MacFadden, and B.
J. Palmer, each hired a person of some intelligence
and education to do their writing. A. T. Still did
his own writing, and coined his own words. His
first graduates received the degree "Diplomate of
Osteopathy," Diplomate evidently meaning having
a diploma. According to the philology of Oste
opathy it should mean "bone suffering," or "suffer
ing bone." No doubt the old doctor intended to
make it Osteotherapy.
Apparently all of A. T. Still's writing was done
when he was a palsied old man in his second child
hood.
In 1910, at the age of 82, he issued "Osteopathy,
Research and Practice," by A. T. Still. In the
preface he says, "As I was an educated engineer
of five years' schooling," thereby giving himself
another course of training, not mentioned in pre
vious books.
134 QUACKS
The definitions in the book are largely quoted
from an obsolete (Dunglison's) Medical Dictionary.
As usual he lapses into stories of army life.
He tells of curing malaria, yellow fever and
diphtheria by spinal adjustment. While the style of
this book is not like his other writings, he does not
mention any help in writing it.
In 1897, at the age of 69, Andrew T. Still was
foolish enough to write an autobiography which
is an everlasting witness against him. It has
460 pages, is devoted largely to recommending
A. T. Still, and other members of the Still family.
It has no index, no attention is paid to chonologi-
cal order of events. Some dates are not given.
Dates of some other events are given differently
in different parts of the book, also there are blank
spots of ten years. He gets over to Page 301 be
fore he tells that he was of Scotch extraction;
he reaches Page 271 before he states that his fa
ther's salary as missionary to Missouri for the
Methodist church was $6.00 a year. The last 250
pages is a reproduction of speeches and lectures
made before classes, and a lot of hypothetical, alle
gorical nonsense. He says, "From my early youth
I have been visited by visions in the night." One
chapter, "Allegory of Joshua," was evidently taken
from the writings (ravings) of Mary Baker Eddy.
Another chapter, is "A Great Vision," another
chapter is "A Business Allegory," in which he de
votes 26 pages and six full page illustrations to
a "ram of reason," which tried to butt some sense
into A. T. Still, but does not state whether the
OSTEOPATHY 135
ram succeeded or not. The time and place of A.
T. Still's birth, evidently being very trivial matters,
are not given in the autobiography. From other
sources I learn that he was born in Virginia in
1828. In 1834 the family moved to Newmarket,
Tenn., the site of Holston College, under control
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and young
Andrew, evidently at the age of six years "entered
Holston College." Just what the father did in
Newmarket is not clear, except he was part owner
of a newspaper called the Holston Journal. In
1836 when A. T. was eight years old the Methodist
Church sent the father to Missouri as Missionary
and A. T. says: "We bade adieu to the fine brick
college at Holston, and my schooling ended until
1839."
He says little about attending school. Says he
was not an apt student; was expelled from one
country school, as he could not get along with the
teacher; admits that he was lazy and often in con
flict with parental authority.
A. T. says, "My father's salary as Missionary to
Missouri was $6.00 a year." "Think of it, ye Beech-
ers and Talmages, with your costly tabernacles
and your salaries rising into the thousands." (Rec
ords of the M. E. Church indicate that salary must
have been sixty dollars.) This reminds us of the
Negro preacher who said: "The salary is poor, but
the preaching is also poor." However, we find
that $6.00 a year salary as Missionary was not
the total income of Still, pater, who also was a
doctor, a farmer, a millwright, conducted a general
136 QUACKS
store, swapped horses and shaved notes. A. T. Still
says: "Four of my uncles, and three of my brothers
were doctors. There is no way to verify this. Also,
he tells that one of his brothers used seventy-five
bottles of morphine in one year, which is about
seventy-five times as much as one man could pos
sibly use in the general practice of medicine. "Ear
ly in the forties," the Millerites, now the Seventh
Day Adventists, were in Missouri foretelling the
exact date of the day of judgment, and A. T. "being
in much dread of the judgment day," joined the
Church; he neglects to mention the denomination
which he joined. At this time there were forty
thousand Mormons in Missouri. The Millerites
and the Spiritualists were well represented. All
of these denominations preached healing by faith,
by laying on of hands and annointing with oil.
A. T. used some Mormon ideas. There is some evi
dence to show that he became first a Millerite, then
a Spiritualist, but evidently came back to the
Methodist Church. One of the Methodist privileges
is backsliding hence joining another Church was
not a serious matter so long as he returned to the
Methodist fold.
In 1847 the elder Still was transferred to Kansas
and the Stills acquired 8,000 acres of Kansas land.
Considerable space in the autobiography is de
voted to stories of a very trivial nature about kill
ing game; sometimes for food and fur, sometimes
for amusement. One of these stories relates to the
killing of a rattlesnake "four inches in diameter, a
OSTEOPATHY 137
fraction over ten feet long, and having 29 rattles,
. which could jump its own length." If snake stor
ies are counted against country boys in the final
reckoning, a lot of us are in bad shape.
"Let him who is without sin cast the first stone."
Folks who were born and raised among snakes
know that snakes cannot jump their own length.
A snake cannot jump; he is not built for jumping.
If properly coiled, a snake can by muscular con
traction strike about one-third of its length.
A. T. comments further; "As a snake is an em
blem of poison, and as all drugs are poison, this
conflict may be said to be the first conflict between
Osteopathy and poison in which Osteopathy came
off victorious." The autobiography gives a full
page picture with the legend "First conflict between
Drugs and Osteopathy." The picture shows the
snake as big as a stove pipe, coiled up like a min
iature haystack waiting for A. T. to adjust his
subluxated vertebrae.
In 1848 when A. T. Still was 20 years old and
teaching school, the Mormons moved from Mis
souri to Utah.
A. T. married at twenty, lost his first wife at
thirty, and married again at thirty-one. In 1858
and 1860 he was a member of the Kansas legisla
ture and operated a saw mill. In September, 1861,
he enlisted in Company F, 9th Kansas Cavalry,
and was discharged in April, 1862, six months later.
The same year he helped organize Company D,
18th Kansas Militia, and was commissioned Cap
138 QUACKS
tain. After his army experience he farmed and
worked as a blacksmith and perfected a machine
for cutting grain, but the Wood Mowing Machine
Company stole his idea and made a fortune from
it. Later he perfected a churn, but doesn't say
who stole it. After the second invention there is
a gap of ten years. Then he says, "In June, 1874,
I fiung to the breeze the banner of Osteopathy."
It was eight years previous to this that Mary
Baker Eddy "discovered the divine laws of life."
A. T. Still had not practiced medicine for twenty
years previous to this. In fact, there is little evi
dence in his own writings that he ever practiced
medicine. Swedish movement, or massage, had
been introduced in the United States some fifteen
years previous to this. It was first used by a New
York physician named George H. Taylor, who
studied it in Sweden and wrote a book on it, but
called it "Mechanotherapy." It was based on an
atomical and physiological facts, and was not offered
as the result of divine inspiration. Mechanotherapy
evidently came to A. T. Still through Orson Pratt, a
Mormon elder who taught healing by "laying on of
hands."
Like most other quacks, A. T. Still tells of his
confidential relationship with the Diety; in fact he
is apparently quite sure that he was the only man
who has ever properly understood God's work in
the human body. I quote a few paragraphs from
his autobiography:
"Who discovered Osteopathy?" "It was put in my
hand by the God of Nature."
OSTEOPATHY 139
(Mary Baker Eddy says, "God revealed to me the
divine laws of life.")
"God is the father of Osteopathy and I am not
ashamed of his child."
'Osteopathy is God's law, and whoever can im
prove on God's law is superior to God."
"Give me the age of God and I will give you the
age of Osteopathy."
"Either God is God or he is not God."
(Mary Baker Eddy says: "The Omnipotent
Father, in the beginning established the science
of life!")
"To administer drugs is to accuse God of inca
pacity."
(Mary Baker Eddy says: "If you believe in God
why substitute drugs for his power.")
"God has no use for drugs."
(Mary Baker Eddy says: "Christian Science ex
terminates drugs.")
"God's pay for labor and time is truth and truth
only."
(Mary Baker Eddy says: "Truth is Omnipotent
and is it's own reward."
"I first saw the tracks of God in the snow of
time."
"I love my fellow man because I see God in his
form and face."
"God is God, the machinery he put in man is
perfect."
"Osteopathy is the greatest scientific gift of God
to man."
140 QUACKS
(Mary Baker Eddy says: "God has set his signet
on science.")
"Osteopathy is God's method and it is infallible."
(Mary Baker Eddy says: "If God heals not the
sick they are not healed.")
"Have faith in God as an architect and the final
triumph of truth and all will be well."
Mary Baker Eddy's book was issued in 1875.
A. T. Still's in 1897—22 years later.
A. T. covered a lot of ground in the "seventies
and eighties." He lived in twenty different towns
in Missouri. In spite of Osteopathy the world did
not make a path to his door. In 1886 he moved
6 times. In Macon he had trouble with the Meth
odist Church and says: "Opposition was so strong
that I left there and went to Kirksville." (He re
fers to Kirksville as Jerusalem.)
In a letter written July 7, 1874, A. T. Still mod
estly states "that he is possibly the best anatomist
now living." In 1877 he tells of getting bones from
an Indian grave yard. (In another place he refers
to them as "darky bones") and studying them un
til he could identify bones after being blindfolded,
and tell on which side of a body a bone belonged.
Any first year medical student who couldn't do this
should be kicked out of college.
In 1892 in spite of his superior knowledge of
anatomy we find that he hired another man to
teach him anatomy.
In 1890 he met a traveling vendor of a pile
remedy and for $100 taught him Osteopathy. Later
for another hundred dollars he taught Osteopathy
OSTEOPATHY 141
to a lightning rod peddler, but the dirty scamp
quit him and went to Medical College. Osteopathic
students have been doing this ever since.
According to his own statement his life had
been a succession of failures. He never made any
money until he began to teach Osteopathy, at the
age of 63.
He says he was prompted to teach Osteopathy
because he lost two children in an epidemic. This
was the same reason that Samuel Thompson gave
for founding Eclecticism. In fact, all the way
through A. T. Still shows the lack of originality.
In 1892 a man giving the name of William Smith
came to Kirksville and bargained to teach Anato
my to A. T. Still, his four sons and one daughter.
William Smith does not mean much. The name
is not unusual or distinctive. In his first endorse
ment of Osteopathy his name was merely signed.
"William Smith."
In a very short time he wrote it,
William Smith, M. D., C. L., FRSE, D. O.
William evidently liked Kirksville and remained
there. Apparently he left no unfinished business
in his former place of residence.
A. T. Still says, "In Hannibal, Missouri, I set
seventeen dislocated hips in one day." At that
time Hannibal had a population of 7000 and an
epidemic of dislocated hips. He tells of one ad
justment curing a goiture of many years standing.
He grew hair three inches long on a bald head in
one week. He tells of painless childbirth. He
142 QUACKS
cured Consumption, Asthma, Pneumonia, Erysip
elas, Sore Eyes, Flux, Measles," —
"Oh, Death, where is thy sting?"
In discussing his painless labor case he says,
"Hurried births in all ages have produced idiots."
(This is from Mary Baker Eddy.)
He also says: —
"The use of quinine produces fibroid tumors."
"Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Colic, Liver trou
ble, Fevers, Croup and other so-called diseases do
not exist." More Mary Baker Eddy.
The first class in Osteopathy was organized in
Kirksville in the fall of 1892. It consisted of "about
ten members"—a part of whom did not finish the
four months course, A. T. Still, his four sons and
one daughter, were members of the first class, and
conferred on themselves the degree "Diplomat of
Osteopathy."
While it is not so stated, William Smith evidently
got his D. 0. Degree at the same time. This ac
counts for seven of the ten members of the first
class. It is not stated why it was necessary for
the course to cover four months.
October 30, 1894, a charter was granted to the
American School of Osteopathy in Kirksville, Mis
souri. The Board of Trustees were six members of
the Still family. The charter provided that this
Board was to have perpetual succession; the mem
bers of the board being able to fill any and all va
cancies in said board. (Another idea from Mary
Baker Eddy.)
In a short time there were fifty or more schools
OSTEOPATHY 143
of Osteopathy, thirty four of which are recognized
by the American Osteopathic Association. Men
who paid $100 to learn Osteopathy wanted to teach
it to others, and get their $100 back. Also there
were mail order courses for non-residents, and eve
ning classes for boys who had attended night school
and could not read in the day time.
One man, James Strother, went to Davenport,
Iowa, and helped the Palmers start their school
of "Chiropractic." An amusing feature of this case
was that Strother was not sure about all the Oste
opathic ideas and returned to the American School
of Osteopathy and took a second course.
In Nevada, Missouri, Doctor Sidney Weltmer
started his school of "Suggestive Therapeutics,"
and sold diplomas by mail until a fraud order was
issued against him.
A Methodist preacher, named C. H. Murray,
started a school in Elgin, Ill., selling Osteopathic
diplomas at $25 and promising his "graduates"
$10,000 per year.
A second branch of Stills founded a second school
of Osteopathy at Des Moines, Iowa.
A third school, "The A. T. Still School of Oste
opathy" was founded in Kirksville by members of
the Still family who were not given jobs in the
first school, making three schools operated by the
Still family. Some of these schools simplified mat
ters, made short cuts and mail order courses. Oth
ers of the new schools added to their course and
were better than the original school. When com
petition developed the Board of Directors of the
A. T. Still School of Osteopathy realized that they
144 QUACKS
must do something. They needed an M. D. with a
Missouri license to do surgery. George A. Still
was selected to fill the job. George was sent to a
medical college. He graduated, passed a State
Board examination, went to Vienna and Berlin to
gain medical knowledge. Rubbing the back was
all right for the poor nut studying Osteopathy,
but George must learn regular medicine. Having
acquired his training, license, etc., George came
home, worked over his medical knowledge, called
it "Osteopathy." (This one incident should show
clearly that Osteopathy was a fake.) He was
made President of the Board of Trustees. He be
came a mediocre surgeon. But an objectionable
habit—a weakness — lessened his usefulness. Dur
ing Thanksgiving week, 1923, following one of his
periodical lapses, George shot and killed himself.
I have before me a circular boosting Osteopathy
as a profession used 25 years ago. In part it says,
There are a dozen ministers ready to
occupy every vacant pulpit, and many ap
plicants to fill vacancies as teachers. Each
hamlet has four or five physicians where
it can support but one. The legal profes
sion is filled to the starving point. Young
licentiates in the older professions must
pass through a starving time.
"Not so with Osteopathy.
"There is no competition.
"There are unlimited places where an
Osteopath can make twenty dollars a day."
(This was real money 25 years ago)
OSTEOPATHY 145
Any scheme which for $100 and four months'
study transformed a farm hand earning $20 a
month into a healer earning $20 a day, would soon
have a following, and many schools of Osteopathy
came into being. Alarmed by the overproduction
Osteopaths organized, lengthened their course,
and raised their requirements, They were foolish
enough to think all of the crooks in the world
could be handled in this easy manner. Men outside
of the Still family began to see visions, have reve
lations and perform cures, and Osteopaths found
themselves in competition with new crops of Doc
tors every time the moon changed. Nearly all of
these were local and short-lived, but something
like 100 systems of spinal adjustments still persist.
The Chiropractors, like the Osteopaths, are quite
generally distributed. Other systems, almost iden
tical in practice, but different in name, became
Chiropractors if legislation made this expedient.
One Orvin Robertson, who like Still, Palmer and
Bernarr MacPadden was from Missouri, took 36
of these systems, combined them into Vita-O-
Pathy. There is one difference between an Oste
opath and any of these imitations. The Chiro
practor, Naprapath, Naturapath, Sanipractor, etc.,
are poor deluded simpletons. They have spent their
money for courses, and many of them actually be
lieve in the potency of their methods. The Osteo
path, if he has the education —outlined, but not
enforced, necessary to enter a School of Osteopathy
—knows enough to understand that their pre
tenses are fraudulent.
146 QUACKS
The Osteopaths boast of their superior training,
although it is received in a third class or fourth
class school. This superior training is not in evi
dence when the State Board examinations are
held. Five state examinations are still open to
applicants without regard to their medical train
ing. The applicant registers, and is given a num
ber. This number, and not his name, is on his
examination paper. The examiners who grade the
papers do not know, or care whether the applicant
is male or female, white or black, old or young,
M. D. Osteopath, Chiropractor or the seventh son
of the seventh daughter.
One of the states open to all is Alabama. It has
one examination for all. Any person who can
answer the questions is given a license to practice
medicine. The 1927 Osteopathic Directory shows
that Alabama, with over two million population,
and prosperous cities of Birmingham, Mobile and
Montgomery, has four Osteopaths ; two of them are
old women, one man in Birmingham is an M. D.,
who took up Osteopathy as a side-line. The fourth
in Mobile is a clean, capable, ambitious, energetic
young man. With a few more years of training
he might have made a successful physician, in
stead he must go through life apologizing for his
mistake. There are hundreds of men like him in
the United States. They have spent their money
and their time becoming Osteopaths because some
older Osteopath could get a fee or bonus, by send
ing them to an Osteopathic College. They have
OSTEOPATHY 147
material wants and can get money by following
the doubtful procedure outlined by Osteopathy.
Many of them refuse to do that; some of them
go into other business. Some continue to practice
Osteopathy and hold to false dogmas because they
are dominated by a few old men and old women
who are exploiting Osteopathy.
Another state open to all is Massachusetts.
July, 1928, 180 applicants took the Massachusetts
examinations. This number included high grade
men, low grade men, diploma mill graduates, non-
graduates and 39 Osteopaths. Only one man from
a first grade school failed. He was convalescent
from illness and got out of a sick bed to take the
examination. He failed by less than two per cent.
Ten of the dubs from the Diploma Mills passed
with grades of 75 per cent or more. Sixteen of them
failed with grades of less than 75 per cent. The
lowest grade being 42. Of the 39 Osteopaths, 24
failed. The lowest grade was 20 per cent. The
dumbest dub from the Diploma Mills made twice
as high a grade as the dumbest Osteopath.
These failures are much more real than apparent,
as only the younger, more capable and more am
bitious students try to pass these examinations.
They are just out of school and have not yet learned
of their limitations.
In every state the Osteopaths have their Pub
licity Committe and their Student Recruiting Com
mittee who are paid a bonus on students sent to
school. For fifty years Osteopaths have been dis
tributing literature which they know is false. Peri
odically, they publish and circulate books and
148 QUACKS
pamphlets which propagate their false teachings.
Tricking an ambitious young man into taking up
a "limited" system of healing is like "Selling Uncle
Tom down the river." After he gets his limited
training and limited license, he is not recognized by
"regular" physicians, and can not call them in con
sultation. He can not attend medical societies, or
patronize medical libraries, he can not take his
patients to hospitals and he can not attend post
graduate schools.
In 1918, M. A. Lane, who is neither a doctor of
medicine, nor a Diplomate of Osteopathy, but a
teacher in the American School of Osteopathy,
wrote a 200-page book, largely devoted to A. T. Still,
M. D., but gives some space to Spinal Adjustments
as substitute for antitoxin in Diphtheria and Qui
nine in Malaria. This book was printed by the
Osteopathic Press of Chicago. In 1927, Anne
Riley Hale, one of Bernarr MacFadden's $25 a
week satelites, did her bit by issuing a book,
"Cults," paying high tribute to "A. T. Still, M. D.,
four years a U. S. Army Surgeon." It can be found
in the waiting room of nearly every Osteopath.
In February, 1928, there was issued from Oste
opathic Headquarters in Chicago, a little booklet,
"Osteopathy as defined in the Encyclopedia Bri-
tanica." The article was not printed in the body
of the encyclopedia, but in a supplement. The
printers of the supplement evidently do not care
to assume responsibility. The article begins "Ac
cording to its advocates, Osteopathy is, etc." This
article, written by an Osteopath, of course, is re
OSTEOPATHY 149
printed in a ten-page booklet. Mixed up in the
ten pages are sub-titles and foot notes which are
not a part of the article, and which do not appear
in the encyclopedia. One sub-title repeats the
fifty-year old lie, "A. T. Still, U. S. Army Surgeon."
This article was dated 1921, states, "There are over
7000 practitioners of Osteopathy in the United
States." The Osteopathic Directory for 1920 gives
a trine over 3000, hence one wonders where the
other 4000 are. In checking up the 1920 literature,
I found an article in the June number of the Oste
opathic Physician entitled: "Lost Osteopaths." It
begins "We regret to say we have names of over
2000 Osteopaths who are lost geographically or
professionally, etc."
Also an inspection of the Osteopathic directory
shows many duplications. Many persons are listed
who are not in practice.
The most noticeable duplication is that of mar
ried women listed twice.:
(1) As they graduated;
(2) Their married names.
Many women not in practice are listed, some of
them twice.
When an Osteopath passes the medical exami
nation for physicians, he is quite likely to "pass
out" as an Osteopath.
There are many doubtful men who tell of losing
diplomas (usually from Rush or Jefferson, or some
other large school) in a fire.
In this connection it might be well to state that
a student whose education will permit him to
150 QUACKS
matriculate in a first-class school of medicine, will
pay less tuition in a first-class school than he
would be obliged to pay in a Diploma Mill or a
School of Osteopathy. The first-class school is
either an endowed school or a state school. The
second, third and fourth-class are cold blooded
money getting schemes. The only excuse for en
tering anything other than a first-class school is
to save time. A student who don't mind spending
money can get a diploma easily and quickly. How
ever, the high-priced, short-time diploma is not
worth much.
In 1903, one John A. Nowlin finished a six months
course in the "Southern College of Osteopathy" at
Frankfort, Ky., and located in Farmer City, 1ll. He
was licensed "to treat Human Ailments, without
doing surgery, and without administering medicine,
internally or externally." In defiance of these limi
tations he purchased surgical equipment and laid in
a stock of drugs. He boosted Osteopathy and re
cruited students for Osteopathic schools. He raised
two sons, but he did not make Osteopaths of them.
He sent both of them to class A schools where each
of them received a degree of M. D.
A few years ago a wealthy man in New York
had a fuss with his wife, sued her for a divorce
and denied the paternity of her youngest boy. An
Osteopath employed by the mother, issued a state
ment that he had made a blood test and found that
the boy was a son of the husband.
There is no such test and the Osteopath knew
it. He merely wanted publicity, and did not mind
lying to get it.
OSTEOPATHY 151
A very common Osteopathic trick for publicity is
to be present at a football game. If a player is
injured, the Osteopath rushes down and says, "I
am Doctor Blank. I will take care of him." If the
injury is serious, the friends of the player soon
learn that he is in a low-grade hospital under the
care of a low-grade physician and they must sign
a release to get him out. Meanwhile the account
of the game includes some publicity for the Oste
opath.
By the liberal use of money in advertising, in
politics, in churches and civic organizations, Osteo
paths have secured political and professional recogni
tion, far beyond the reach of honesty and fair deal
ing. The Osteopath is usually an aggressive mem
ber of the largest church in town, he is prominent
in secret orders and an active member of local clubs,
named after beasts and birds, which came into being
while the country was dry. He is always getting
publicity, because the newspapers need money. The
State and National organizations are strong on pub
licity. Four years ago they began a Nation wide
Ballyhoo "Osteopathic Health Cruise Around the
World." It was to leave New York Dec. 1, 1932.
Elaborate plans and programs were broadcast, the
Osteopathic Journals were full of it, but the trip was
never made.
Osteopaths claim to have almost 100 hospitals,
nearly all of them are merely a room or two in
an Osteopathic residence. Recently the Osteo
paths opened a hospital of their own in Chicago,
saying that the physicians discriminated against
152 QUACKS
them and would not allow them to operate in the
first-class hospitals. Shortly after the hospital
was opened an unfortunate young woman, who had
paid $800 in advance for an orthopedic operation,
lost a couple of legs from an infection, which gave
the public a pretty good idea why the hospitals and
first-class surgeons discriminated against the os
teopath.
For forty-six years the American Medical Asso
ciation has printed a periodical called "The Jour
nal." It is printed each week, consists of more
than 100 pages and has a circulation of 100,000
copies each week. The outside front page of the
Journal is 9x12 inches, it is printed in blue on
cream colored paper. Across the top of the page in
blue letters one inch high is the words "The Jour
nal." Twenty-one years later the Osteopaths
launched a periodical and with a multitude of color
combinations, names and sizes to select from, they
selected the same name, the same size, same color
of paper, the same color of blue for printing, and
the words "The Journal" across the top in one-inch
letters. Was this a coincident, or plain stealing?
A few years later, when the Chiropractors ap
propriated the Osteopathic Spine, and other Oste
opathic bunk, a copy of the Osteopathic Journal
sta'ted—
"The Journal is forced to copyright its contents
in order to prevent the use of Osteopathic litera
ture by a lot of unprincipled fakirs, etc., etc."
In other words, the Chiropractors are stealing
from us just as we have stolen from the M. D.'s.
Help, aid, assistance.
OSTEOPATHY 153
In May, 1920, the Philadelphia Inquirer printed
a double page advertisement relating to the alleged
cure of the deaf-mute, the Spanish prince, Don
Jamie. This was an advertisement for the Phila
delphia College of Osteopathy. The same day this
ad was run in the Philadelphia Inquirer an enter
prising Chiropractor in Atlanta ran a full-page
ad in seven or eight Georgia papers relating to the
same alleged cure. Other Chiropractors and other
Osteopaths passed the advertisements on. Both
cults gave the name of Dr. J. Johnson May as the
doctor who affected the cure. The Osteopaths
called him J. Johnson May, Osteopath; the Chiro
practors called him J. Johnson May, Chiropractor.
As a matter of fact the Spanish prince has been
deaf since birth and will always be deaf as a part
of his middle ear is missing. It does not seem
harsh to say that both the Osteopaths and Chiro
practors lied.
There are six million deaf and partially deaf
people in the United States. Why go all the way
to Spain for a subject?
Elbert Hubbard wrote, "A Little Journey to the
Home of A. T. Still," and sold it to the Osteopaths
in lots of 100,000. He was shrewd enough to keep
the copyright in his own name. Afterwards he
changed the name from Still to Palmer; from Oste
opathy to Chiropractic; from Kirksville to Daven
port, and sold a few hundred thousand more to the
Chiropractors.
Elbert knew something about Cults. In fact, he
was the head of a Cult called the Roycrafters, but
154 QUACKS
did not make a religion of it. His writing was done
for profit, and his opinion depended on the size of
the hank roll.
The Directory of the American Medical Associ
ation weighs twelve pounds, contains the names of
180,000 physicians. The directory of the American
Osteopathic Association weighs a half pound, can
be carried in the pocket.
Since 1892 the Osteopathic schools have graduated
more than 25,000 Osteopaths.
Where are they?
In 1920 the Osteopathic Directory listed the
names of something over 3000 Osteopaths. Since
then their schools have graduated five thousand
more, and the 1927 Directory, which includes the
English speaking world, gives 3532 names. In
1926 it gives the names of 3575 Osteopaths. That
year the Osteopathic Colleges graduated 432 stu
dents, but the 1927 directory does not show a gain
of 432. Instead it shows a loss of 43, there being
3532 names in it. The six schools of Osteopathy
graduated 331 in 1931. According to current Os
teopathic literature, more than 60 of these are
former Chiropractors, and two thirds of them
could not matriculate in any of the 76 Medical
Colleges. The largest number of graduates from
one state is 43 from California, where any body
can get a license. The second largest number, 39,
come from Ohio. The United States Senator from
Ohio was on the Osteopathic pay roll and secured
favors for them in that state.
OSTEOPATHY 155
A careful checking up of the A's in the 1927
directory shows 111 names, ten of which are
in foreign countries. If this ratio holds good,
there are a trifle more than 3000 Osteopaths in
the United States. Of this number more than 15
per cent are in Southern California, the Mecca of
the Medical Grafters, where any man or woman
with a degree, a commission from the Diety, or an
obsession, can get a license to practice medicine.
Of the 111 names given in the A's in the 1927 Di
rectory, forty are apparently men, 30 are appar
ently women ; forty-one give only initials, or names
which do not disclose sex. The large number of
women in the Osteopathic cult is due to the fact
that Missouri State College for Women is also lo
cated in Kirksville. Advanced standing and spe
cial tuition are given teachers. These women
who plan to teach are led astray by the Osteo
paths and made to believe that the world needs
them as healers. It is not surprising that many
of them are disappointed to find that the American
public does not appreciate them. They say the
public discriminates against them because they
are women. The hard luck story of a poorly trained
woman Osteopath is amusing and pathetic. In fact
I know of nothing more pathetic that a poor mis
guided woman, playing a losing game.
For many years physicians have worn small
buttons showing the caduceus, or aesculapian staff
as the emblem of their profession. When the use
of the automobile became general this same device
156 QUACKS
was enlarged and used on the radiator of physi
cian's cars. Four years ago physicians discovered
that the Osteopaths were using the same device in
the same manner. They had appropriated it just
as they have appropriated everything else which
the physicians use. The American Medical Asso
ciation made and copyrighted a new device for the
Physician's car. It was a circular emblem with
a green Maltese Cross on a white background.
Within three months the American Osteopathic
Association had exactly the same device, except it
was shield shape instead of circular.
On several of my trips to Kirksville, I tried to
interview A. T. Still, but never succeeded. I was
never able to see him without a third party or a
fourth party being present. One whole afternoon
I followed him around the yard at home. He was
dressed in overalls and doing odd jobs of no par
ticular importance. The old man was ill at ease.
During the afternoon he chewed a whole package
of Polar Bear tobacco, and sprayed saliva gen
erously over his clothing and whiskers. There was
no chance for him to talk, or even answer ques
tions. Other members of the family did the talk
ing. By way of apology, the family explained that
the father didn't hear well, and they showed plain
ly that he was not supposed to be interviewed.
This Chapter reproduced as a pamphlet.
1 Copy by mall, postpaid, 20c
100 Copies, by mail, postpaid, $5.00
Chas. W. Warner, Jackson, Mississippi
CHAPTER XI
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Christian Science is the trade name for a fake
system of healing. It began as a School of Meta
physical Healing. Mrs. Eddy's Metaphysical College
was in no sense a college. It was a fake institu
tion of the rankest sort.
Her classes met in a single room of her resi
dence. Under the lax laws of sixty years her grad
uates could call themselves "doctors" or even write
M. D. after their names. The whole faculty con
sisted of Mrs. Eddy, her third (or fourth) husband,
who was a mechanic, later selling Singer Sewing
Machines, and Foster Eddy, a low-grade Homeo
pathic physician, who, at the age of 41, was legally
adopted by Mrs. Eddy, who at that time was 68.
When the laws of Massachusetts put the school
out of business, the name was changed to Christian
Science, to avoid the law.
While posing as a religion, its churches have
no pastors, no creed, there is no marriage cere
mony, or no baptismal ceremony, and no one au
thorized to perform marriage or baptisms, and as
Christian Science does not believe in death, there
is no funeral service. They make no attempt
to "save sinners," their members being proselyted
158 QUACKS
or recruited from disgruntled members of other
churches.
Healers in every state in the union pose as re
ligionists, to avoid passing the medical examina
tions. There are 10,000 of them in United States.
These healers deny "Material Sensation" deny
that there are such things as Pain, Sickness and
Death, but admit that money is real.
Of course, the mission of the Christian Science
is to get the money, and get it first. A course of
treatment, can be given over the phone; by col
lecting in advance the healer can "concentrate on
the case, without thought of material things."
"If you want Jesus to love you and God to heal
you, you must pay the healer $25 in cash."
Every Christian Science practitioner is in close
touch with a low-grade physician. He can furnish
emergency treatment, give hypodermics of mor
phine, perform abortions, and when the case be
comes serious, the Doctor is called in in time to
sign a death certificate. Often the death certificate
is signed by a Doctor who never saw the patient
in life. That was why Mrs. Eddy, aged 68, adopted
E. J. Poster, aged 41, made him her publisher and
heir to half of her estate. The Doctors in every
city know which of their own number has sold his
professional birthright for a mess of financial pot
tage.
Space is no obstacle to Christian Science treat
ment, so-called absent treatments can be given
over the phone, by mail or through space, by sim
ply repeating or reading from a scrap of paper,
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 169
"I trust my Father-Mother God, I cannot die."
"I am God's child, I can not die—
There is no death, for God is light—
Sickness, pain and death are errors,
or the reconstructed Lords Prayer beginning, "Our
Father, Mother God," one clause of which is "De
liver us from Material Sensation."
If threatened with illness or hit by an automobile
adults are advised to repeat "The Scientific state
ment of being" (p. 468 Science and Health) . "There
is no life, truth, intelligence nor substance in mat
ter."
There is a small animal called the Guinea Pig.
It is not a pig and does not come from Guinea.
There is a vegetable called the Jerusalem Arti
choke. It is not an artichoke and does not come
from Jerusalem. There is a breakfast food called
Grape Nuts. It contains no product of either
grapes or huts. There is a popular drink called
Coco Cola. It contains neither Cocoa nor Cola.
Christian Science contains no vestige of either
Science or Christianity. In fact, it is the very
antithesis of both.
Christian Science is a cold blooded, merciless,
fraudulent, money-making scheme. It has been
exposed so frequently and so thoroughly, that fur
ther comment seems unnecessary.
But, as a book on Quacks would not be complete
without Christian Science, this short chapter is
included.
In preparing this chapter, I found and consulted
160 QUACKS
over 200 books, almost enough to load a dray.
Christian Science maintains a powerful lobby
in Washington, and highly paid lobbyists are
moved from one state capital to another as they
are needed (see p. 15).
Seventeen years after Mary Baker, etc., Frye
passed on, one of her secretaries, Adam Dickey,
begun the compiling of a book, "Memoirs of Mary
Baker Eddy." Before the book was finished Dickey
also died. His wife had 500 copies of the book
printed.
The book did not suit those in authority, hence,
the books were nearly all bought in and destroyed.
Even copies which had been sold, were chased
down and repurchased at exorbitant prices.
In 1925, a text book on Hygiene which did not
suit Christian Scientists was being used in several
colleges in Southern California. Enough pressure
was brought to bear on the colleges to get rid of
the objectionable book.
This plan was expensive, hence, was discon
tinued and an "under cover" force organized. When
a criticism is issued, the local members of this
force, are notified, they visit the local bookstores
and serve notice that they can not patronize—or
even enter—the store, while the offending book
is in stock. In spite of this proceedure, millions
of copies of objectionable books have been sold.
Perhaps the most virile of these books was issued
20 years ago by Frederick W. Peabody, a Boston
lawyer. The title is "The Religo-Medical Mas
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 161
querade." I quote from the first page of this book.
"Christian Science is the most shallow and sor
did and wicked imposture of the ages. Upon a
substratum of lies, a foundation of false pretense
has been laid, etc.
"Never before has the world witnessed a mas
querade like Christian Science. Being everything
that Christianity is not, it puts on the garb of
Christianity, etc. Having nothing in it remotely
worthy of the name of science, it meaninglessly
appropriates scientific terms and phrases, etc."
There is 200 pages of this. The book has gone
through a dozen editions, without any legal inter
ference, on the part of Christian Scientists.
Mark Twain, who was an author and publisher,
wrote a book of 300 pages on Christian Science,
referring to Mrs. Eddy as a shameless old swindler.
Her manual of the First Church is described as a
cunning little, devilish little, brown volcano, with
hell in its bowels. Mark says "Science and Health,"
which every follower must buy for $3.50, costs 15c
to print and is not worth it.
Any reader who gets a kick out of sarcastic lit
erature can easily find 200 or more of such books.
The writer of Quacks is not selling them and not
paid for advertising them.
Briefly, Christian Science originated with P. P.
Quimby, a Maine clockmaker, with a limited edu
cation. He was a follower of Bronson Alcott and
for a time Quimby traveled through New England
with Chas. Poyen, a French Mesmerist. Quimby
162 QUACKS
was raised among the Shakers and used some
Shaker ideas. He hired Warren F. Evans, a stu
dent of Theosophical Idealism and a follower of
Swedenborg, to reduce these ideas to a system.
Previous to this, Warren F. Evans had formu
lated a religious system of healing and called it
"New Thought." He left "New Thought" with some
of his dissenting followers. The cult has been
kept alive and still exists. Christian Science may
be called a modification of "New Thought."
Transcendentalism and Theosophical idealism
go back to the time of Plato.
We Anglo Saxons get our Religion, our Mythol
ogy and our Philosophy from the old Greeks and
Orientals, we use them and quote them, but can
not comprehend them, any more than we can un
der stand how the ancients were able to use Roman
Characters to solve a problem in algebra.
Evans did a good job, writing treatises on "Men
tal Cures," "Mental Medium," "Body and Soul,"
"Error," "Truth,' and using the term "Christian
Science" 15 years before Mrs. Eddy used it, and
before Mrs. Eddy became a student of Quimby.
However, Quimby had not the education, or the
mental capacity to comprehend Evan's ideas. In
1862, Mrs. Eddy became a pupil of Quimby and was
closely associated with him until his death —at
the age of 61—in 1866.
For five years after Quimby's death, she used
and taught what she called Quimby's method.
Mary Ann Morse Baker Glover Varney Patterson
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 163
Eddy Prye, hereafter called Mrs. Eddy was
raised a few miles from the main or parent body
of Shakers in East Canterbury, N. H. She was the
youngest of six children, was probably an epileptic,
a somnambulist and early developed a violent tem
per, going into hysterics, when she was displeased.
Late in life Mrs. Eddy became a drug addict.
Every flunkey around her mansion was trained to
give hypodermics.
Her close associates explained this by saying
that she had gall bladder colic and merely used
a drug for relief.
From the following comparison it is evident that
her ideas originated with the Shakers, fifty years
before Mrs. Eddy began to teach healing.
A woman (Mrs. Ann Lee) was the head of the
Shakers.
A woman (Mrs. Eddy) was the head of the Chris
tian Scientists.
Mrs. Lee called her church "The Church of
Christ."
Mrs. Eddy called her church "The Church of
Christ, Scientist."
Mrs. Lee worked over the Lord's Prayer to suit
herself, beginning "Our Father and Mother who
are in heaven."
Mrs. Eddy changed it to "Our Father-Mother
God."
Both forbade their followers using oral prayer
other than the reconstructed Lord's Prayer.
Both called themselves "The woman of the Apoc
alypse."
164 QUACKS
Both taught their followers to call them "Moth
er."
Both claimed to be divinely inspired.
Both were married several times and both for
bade marriage.
Both claimed to have the gift of healing.
Both planned to secure followers by conversion
or proselyting.
It might also be said that both were illiterate.
Mrs. Lee totally and Mrs. Eddy, semi.
Mary Baker Eddy's education was secured in a
few months in a country school, and enabled her
to read and write.
She claimed to have graduated from Sanborn's
Academy at Tilton. There was no "Sanborn's
Academy" in Tilton and no other school which
"graduated" pupils.
Like Samuel of old, she heard voices calling her
in the night.
She claimed that she joined the Congregational
Church at 12 years and like Christ at 12, was able
to give instructions to the teachers, but the church
record shows that she was 17.
As a young widow she became a spiritualist and
advertised "treatments" in the "Banner of Light,"a
Spiritualist paper printed in Boston. Records show
that she was married three times and physical
facts indicate that there were probably two other
marriages.
She faked a genealogy and claimed to be a de
scendant of Sir John MacNeil. The MacNeil fam
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 165
ily promptly denied this and showed that it was
impossible. She refers to her first husband as
Col. Geo. Washington Glover. He was a brick
layer and there seems to be no advantage —or rea
son—to call him Colonel. He died in 1844, six
months after marriage. Soon after this—in fact,
soon enough to be embarrassing — her son was
born. This son was called George Washington
Glover, after his father. As a child he was given to
an illiterate woman who was a servant in her
father's home when he was born. He was taken
West and Mrs. Eddy did not see him again untill
he was 34 years old.
When Mrs. Eddy became wealthy, her son de
manded—and received —money from her. He was
illiterate, being unable to read and write, at the
age of 65, when his mother gave him $150,000 to
surrender letters which she had written to him.
She said (in 1844), "I had no training for self
support." For 40 years she led a precarious, para
sitic existence, during the early part of this time
she lived with the family of one John Varney, but
there is no satisfactory evidence of marriage. In
1853, she married Patterson, a dentist, who de
serted her, escaped, but paid her $200 a year ali
mony. She published the statement that he ran
away with another woman, but she was not able
to prove this. In 1877 she married Gilbert Eddy,
at this time she was 56 years old, but gave her age
as 40, probably because Gilbert was much younger
than herself. Three times Gilbert died, treated by
166 QUACKS
a Physician. Twice Mrs. Eddy restored him to
life, then lost patience with him and allowed him to
remain dead, five years after his marriage.
With an annuity of $200 from Dr. Patterson, she
was not dependent on the charity of her relatives
or friends. She was able to pay a nominal board,
the $200 and her small earnings being sufficient.
She chose to quit her sisters and board with stran
gers, going from one family of Spiritualists to an
other.
At this time, one of her friends and neighbors,
Mrs. Lydia E. Pinkham, was practicing medicine
in the city of Lynn, and selling her famous Vege
table Compound, without diploma or license.
Her first associate in the healing "game" was
H. S. Crafts, a mechanic who quit his job and be
came Dr. Crafts. She lived with the Crafts family
until Mrs. Crafts learned that Mrs. Eddy was using
influence to have Crafts divorce his wife. Crafts
was bidden to choose which woman he preferred
and chose to remain with his wife. Mrs. Eddy
then went to live in the home of "Mother Web
ster," a Spiritualist healing medium and the wife
of a retired sea captain, from which she was forci
bly ejected "one dark and stormy night."
Next she formed a partnership with Richard
Kennedy, a man about half her own age, but, as
usual, had a fuss with him in a short time. Another
associate was Mrs. Wentworth, a "nurse and rub
bing doctor."
Later partnerships and quarrels were with Dan
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 167
iel Spofford, Wallace Wright and Julius Dresser.
During all this time she preached and taught the
Mesmerism —Manipulation Methods of Dr. Quimby.
An amusing feature of each partnership and
quarrel was that each partner would accuse the
other of immorality.
In 1877 came Asa Gilbert Eddy, a Spiritualist,
whose mother was a Spiritualist healer. Eddy
soon became a star pupil and husband of his teach
er, sixteen years older than himself.
Mrs. Eddy had developed a deadly fear of her
former pupils, lest they injure her with Malicious
Animal Magnetism. As Boston and Salem had
burned people for witchcraft, it is easy to under
stand that a person of low mentality, low cunning
and limited education might still believe in occult
violence. Mrs. Eddy was accused of sending her
husband and one Edward Arens out to kill Daniel
Spofford, one of the chief generations of Malicious
Animal Magnetism. Spofford heard of this and
left town. When his disappearance was reported,
Eddy and Arens were arrested and charged with
Spofford's murder, Spofford returned and denied
that he was dead, and the charge of murder was
dismissed.
There is nothing more uncanny in the history of
Salem Witchcraft than Mary Baker Eddy's Malici
ous Animal Magnetism.
For 40 years Mrs. Eddy lived in deadly fear of
Malicious Animal Magnetism (this was an idea
which Quimby got from Poyen). Each time when
168 QUACKS
she had a quarrel with a student —students whom
she had instructed in the occult, she had halluci
nations, concerning potential violence to her non
existent material body. She warned her women
followers to beware lest they become pregnant
through Malicious Animal Magnetism.
When Gilbert Eddy died for the third time, while
under the care of a physician, Mrs. Eddy declared
that his death was due to Malicious Animal Mag
netism and held to this idea even after physicians
had held a postmortem to prove that he had died
from natural causes. If the wind was not right,
or a drain pipe clogged, a letter went astray, or a
fall of snow came, it was Malicious Animal Mag
netism. She wrote "Our students have seen chil
dren thrown into fits by mental malpractice, and
have seen them covered with virulent humours
from the same cause." On one occasion she went
into litigation to prevent one of her students from
practicing witchcraft. During the later years of
her life she went riding every afternoon, in a closed
carriage, behind two horses. When Malicious Ani
mal Magnetism was in evidence a substitute took
this ride, wearing Mrs. Eddy's ermine cape and
hiding her face with a sun shade. Two ungodly
newspaper reporters suspected this and "blocked"
the route of the carriage long enough to verify
their suspicions.
Having adapted to her own use Mesmerism,
Manipulation, Shakerism and Spiritualism, Mrs.
Eddy advanced her composite system as a revela
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 169
tion, using the name Christian Science which
Quimby had used 15 years before. As none of her
early followers had sufficient education to do her
writing, in 1885 she hired James H. Wiggins, a re
tired Unitarian Minister to rewrite her book and
to write her sermons.
The first edition of Science and Health was issued
in 1875. It was vastly different from Wiggins
productions, but both were issued as revelations.
After stealing her ideas from the Shakers and
Quimby and lying about it, Mary Baker Eddy hired
Wiggins who added the same 4000-year-old ideas
on Transcendentalism and Shamanism which
Evans wrote for Quinby. The later edition
Science and Health says:
"Various books on mental healing have been is
sued, most of them incorrect, and filled with plagi
arisms from Science and Health."
This was written after Wiggins had had the
inevitable quarrel with Mary Baker Eddy and after
Wiggins and Julius Dresser had stated that Chris
tian Science dated back to Quimby.
In 1888 a Christian Science practitioner han
dled a labor case and lost mother and child. When
this happened, Mrs. Eddy, at the age of 68, adopted
Ebenezer J. Foster, Homeopathic Physician, aged
41, who afterwards used the name Ebenezer J.
Foster Eddy, and became teacher of Obstetrics.
Foster Eddy had trouble with a woman and left
town, after which he was accused of being short
in his accounts. His connection with Christian
170 QUACKS
Science ceased, but he afterward joined with G. W.
Glover and received $150,000 from the Eddy for
tune. The first serious dissension in Mrs. Eddy's
church occurred October 21, 1881, when eight
prominent members (almost one-half of her fol
lowing) resigned, charging Mrs. Eddy in writing
with violent temper, avarice, love of money and
hypocrisy. In 1888 thirty-two members resigned.
These dissentions were usually led by pastors of
churches —mostly women —whose preaching did
not suit Mrs. Eddy. She evidently did not want
followers who could write their own sermons or
who would think for themselves.
In 1895 she abolished pastors, substituting read
ers, the first reader reading a verse from Science
and Health, the second reader reading a verse
from the Bible.
Readers are paid—well paid—and every large,
heavily, upholstered lady in the faith, has her eye
on the job.
It would be just as logical or appropriate for the
first reader to use Mother Goose or Gulliver's Trav
els.
Since 1895 only sterotyped sermons by "lectur
ers" are given in Christian Science Churches, and
no church has had a pastor.
In 1892 a deed was made to Mary Baker Eddy for
the "Mother Church." This edifice cost $2,000,000
of which Mary Baker Eddy paid $5000 and received
a deed in her own name.
Among her women followers were several who
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 171
were evidently possessed of more education and
intelligence than Mrs. Eddy. They were Mrs. Stet
son, of New York, Mrs. Woodbury, of Boston, Mrs.
Ewing, of Chicago, Mrs. Leonard, of Brooklyn and
Mrs. Williams, of Buffalo. All of these worthies
were troublesome.
They wanted to preach doctrines which did not
suit Mrs. Eddy hence Mrs. Eddy abolished preach
ers.
Mrs. Woodbury had the inevitable fussj with
Mrs. Eddy and was dismissed, after which both
exhausted their vocabularies denouncing the other
for immorality.
Mrs. Stetson continued in the faith, but was no
longer permitted to preach.
Mrs. Stetson established the First Church of
Christ, Scientist, in New York. It cost $1,500,000.
Her mansion next door to it cost $100,000. For
years her annual expenditures ran up to $250,000.
She spent $500,000 on radio station WHAP, which
became noted for its vicious criticism of Jews and
Catholics. She wore a crown of diamonds. In
spite of her claim that she would never die, she
"passed on" in 1928.
In spite of their spiritual perfection, all of them
died—all under the care of Physicians who con
sidered only bodily ailments. Mrs. Eddy died in
1910. Mrs. Stetson lived until 1928 and her non
existent material body now rests in a block of con
crete.
In 1890, Mrs. Josephine Curtis Woodbury gave
172 QUACKS
birth to a son, said he was immaculately conceived
and called him the Prince of Peace..
In 1906 Christian Scientists were forbidden to
enumerate or report the number of members in
any Christian Science Church. At this time there
were reported 635 churches, averaging 126 mem
bers each. When the Federal religious census
was taken in 1916, the Christian Science authori
ties refused to make any report. In 1883 Mrs
Eddy claimed to have 1,000,000 followers. The Re
ligious Census of 1933, estimated the number of
Christian Scientists to be 200,000.
Every Christian Science Church, whether it owns
an edifice or is merely an organization must be
listed in the Christian Science Journal each month
and must pay $10 per line, in advance, for one
year, or lose its standing.
Healers and nurses, must be listed and must pay
$5 per line.
The Journal of November 28, 1928, carries 4288
"lines" of listing for churches, and 12,648 from
Practitioners, making a total of $106,120 for a few
pages of listing.
This is called advertising, but there is no possi
ble advantage to either the church or the Practi
tioner in the particular advertisement —it is plain
graft.
Every church organization must have at least
one lecture each year, lecturers to be paid at least
$100 —more if there is a chance to get it. This
is another graft of at least $250,000 a year. These
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 173
lecturers are advertised as "ex-judges, ex-preach
ers, or ex-something else converted to Christian
Science for $100 or more per lecture.
Also every member must subscribe for four dif
ferent periodicals, total cost $16, an aggregate of
at least $1,000,000.
A Christian Bible can be bought for 25 cents,
a person who is "shy two bits" can get a Bible for
nothing from the American Bible Society.
Mary Baker Eddy's bible —Science and Health —
the first bible which has ever carried testimonials
from converts, costs $3.50. Christian Theological
Seminaries offer substantial scholarships, and give
so much aid that a young man can enter one pen
niless and finish the course, with money in his
pockets, but Mary Baker Eddy taught 4000 in her
Metaphysical College of Healing and charged each
of them $300 for the seven lessons.
There never was such a system of grafting. The
Mormons and the Shakers had healers, but these
healers did not make a graft of it. The Christian
Science healers graft from the lay members. The
Board of Directors graft from the healers, and
the Board of Publication graft from all three. There
are 13 books which every member must buy, one
copy of each in cheapest binding cost $33.50. When
a new edition is printed even though there is only
a few new pages (one new edition only had two
lines) the faithful must buy it.
In addition to literature Christian Science sells
pictures of Mrs. Eddy and of churches. A Chris
tian Science spoon worth 50c sells for $5, many
174 QUACKS
designs to select from, embossed with Christian
Science mottoes, Mrs. Eddy, or the Mother Church.
The successful sale of spoons resulted in produc
tion of all sorts of Christian Science jeweny. As
Mark Twain says "no friendless dollar ever got
away from them."
The first edition of Science and Health was
issued in 1875. It is a senseless grouping of words.
An old time writer of English Grammar wrote
"A sentence is a group of words making complete
sense." If this worthy could come back to life
and read Science and Health he would revise this
definition.
The sentiment of the whole book might be con
densed into three sentences —
(1) All material life is a self-evident falsehood.
(2) Pain, Sickness and Death are errors.
(3) When the belief that we inhabit a body is
destroyed, we shall live forever."
Here are a few quotations.
Page 144 —"When the Science of being is uni
versally understood, every man will be his own
healer."
Page 150 —"The hosts of Aesculapuis are flood
ing the world with diseases, because they are ig
norant that the human mind and body are myths.
Page 153 —"You say a boil is painful, but that
is impossible for matter without mind is not pain
ful.
Page 274 —"What we erroneously term the five
physical senses are manifested beliefs of mental
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 175
mind. These false beliefs constitute the flesh, and
the flesh wars against the Spirit.
Page 375 —"Palsy is a belief and can paralyze
the body."
Page 379 —"Fevers are errors, the quickened
pulse, the coated tongue, the dry skin, pains in the
head and limbs are pictures drawn by mortal mind
Unless the fever picture is destroyed, it ends in
a belief called death."
Page 475 —Man is not matter and man is inca
pable of sin, sickness and death."
"The blood, heart, lungs and brain have nothing
to do with life."
"Mortal mind transfers the infection of small
pox."
"When one burns his fingers, it is mortal mind,
not matter that burns it.
"If the science of life were understood, the lost
human limb would be restored as readily as the
lost claw of the unthinking lobster."
"Pood does not affect the real existence of man."
"He who is ignorant of what is termed Hygienic
law is more receptive of Spiritual power."
Not being content with the Lord's Prayer, Mary
Baker Eddy revised it to suit herself. This is the
only oral prayer Christian Scientists are allowed
to use. They have a silent prayer beginning "I
trust my Father-Mother God, I shall never die."
The 23rd Psalm, Rock of Ages, Jesus, Lover of
my Soul, and other hymns of sacred memory have
been revised and prostituted to their profane use.
Christian Science healers from Mary Baker Eddy
176 QUACKS
on down have been accused of immorality. Im
morality is hard to prove and as stated by a com
petent legal authority, "Immorality is never com
mitted with malice, hence, it is not a crime." How
ever, it is evident that healers everywhere
teach and practice contraception, because "obstet
rics involves suffering and death; abolish it."
This procedure dates back to 1888 when a Chris
tian Science practictioneer handled a labor case,
lost both mother and child. This led to a quarrel
and 32 prominent members left the church.
The most, socially prominent person who was
ever converted to Christian Science was the Earl
of Dunmore. He was Mrs. Eddy's dearest, most im
portant conquest. He was very liberal, extrava
gant with his testimony of healing. The Cosmo
politan Magazine of March, 1907, paid for and
printed an elaborate article written by the Earl
going into detail about a heart ailment which had
been pronounced incurable by eminent London
physicians and his cure by Christian Science.
It was a clever article, a triumph for Christian
Science. Part of it, about the disease and the Lon
don physicians was true, the part about the cure
was evidently not true as he died a few weeks later
of fatty degeneration of the heart.
Owing to the publicity and his prominence, the
testimonial could not be used after his death. I
have a record of one testimonial which was printed
30 years after the person giving the testimonial
had died. Testimonials are not dated, initials are
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 177
given in lieu of names, the address usually miss
ing or vague and indeterminate.
Another prominent person cured was John S.
Hawley. He had nephritis. At least competent
physicians told him he had nephritis and that his
case was incurable.
He fell into the hands of a Christian Scientist.
He was assured that the kidneys had nothing to
do with life, that Christian Science would correct
his error. He wanted to beleive this, compelled
himself to believe it and actually did believe it.
He was cured—he believed that too. Out of his
gratitude and the goodness of his heart, he pro
vided a sum to build a Christian Science church
in San Diego. Before the church was completed
he died of nephritis, just as his physician had told
him he would.
Another San Diego Christian Science edifice was
erected by Mrs. Keely whose husband became a
Millionaire on "The Keely Cure."
Owing to the frequent dissensions in the ranks
of the followers of Mrs. Eddy, there are numerous
umilar organizations. In 1912, a large body of
Christian Scientists organized "The Christian Sci-
nce Parent Church" in opposition to Mary Baker
'ddy's First Church. They continued to use the
ime Christian Science until May, 1930, when they
anged the name to "The Church of Universal
ssign."
This group is evidently made up of persons of
ficient intelligence to realize the futility of
"istian Science Healing. They admit the reality
178 QUACKS
of pain, sickness and death, and do not adhere to
the superstition and fanaticism, which no one with
common sense or experience believes. Their serv
ices are available only after a physician has made
a diagnosis and prognosis. They do not meddle or
interfere with the use of drugs or surgery. They
will not take any case, without the full knowledge,
consent and cooperation of the physician in charge.
They renounced Mary Baker Eddy as the discov
erer, or founder, of their cult. In her place, they
put Phineas D. Quimby, from whom Mary Baker
Eddy got her ideas.
There is probably a future ahead of this organiza
tion.
Another organization founded by one Chas. Fil-
more and Myrtle, his wife, uses an inversion of
the name Quimby used—Scientific Christianity— t
the headquarters are at Kansas City—their lead- \
ing periodical is Unity, said to have a circulation \
of 185,000. They also have a radio station and
branches in various large cities; their business is
largely sale of literature and is handled by mail.
Other similar organizations are Astral Healing,
Auto Science, Chirothesians, Divine Healing, Dow-
ieism, Emmanuel Movement, Faith Healing, New
Thought, House of David, Jewish Science. Like the
parent organization, all of the branches have ap
parently reached their maximum growth.
This Chapter reproduced as a pamphlet.
1 Copy by mail, postpaid, 20c
100 Copies, by mail, postpaid, $5.00
Chas. W. Warner, Jackson, Mississippi
CHAPTER XII
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON
Southern California has been described as a place
where —
The flowers lack fragrance.
The fruits lack flavor.
The streams lack water.
The people lack honor.
Flowers and fruits grown quickly under irriga
tion, may be insipid and lack odor. Nine months'
drouth in a year and an annual rainfall of 2 or 3
inches allow the streams to become dry. People
whose chief means of support is derived from
tourists are not likely to develop into philanthro
pists. A Japanese gardener who pays $300 a year
rent for an acre of ground with no buildings on
it, can not allow tourists to walk in and help them
selves to vegetables. A visitor is called a "tour
ist" as long as he continues to mail out postal
cards, and is willing to pay a dollar for a ten cent
souvenir. However, visitors are so numerous now
that "Native Sons" no longer dominate.
Any man who has been a summer tourist in New
England, or a winter tourist in Florida has learned
to spend money. But the methods of New England
180 QUACKS
and Florida are crude instead of scientific as in
California.
Crossing into California at Yuma, Arizona mo
torists encounter armed ruffians belonging to Cali
fornia state plant quarantine department.
Without search warrants, they search all cars
entering California. Grips are opened; personal
belongings and dainty lingerie are shaken and
scrutinized, lest an alien germ or bug enter Cali
fornia. Those who object are liable to be taken
before a Justice of Peace on impromptu charges
and fined $1 or more and costs—owing to how rich
and how hard boiled the motorist seems. "Costs"
run about $3 each for the Justice of Peace and his
constables. The experience gives a motorist an
idea of what he may expect on his sojourn in Cali
fornia.
At Hollywood a lot alien movie producers, who
do not understand American customs, American
morals or American religions, produce sex plays,
with a lot of alien morons whose only qualification
is "Sex appeal." A few American women get into
movies by showing that they have four or five di
vorces and a few more get in by becoming wives or
mistresses of alien movie producers. Reading adver
tising matter in front of movies, is often revolting to
adults, and children pay money to see the movie
queen seduced in the first reel. A visitor to Holly
wood who learns of the lack of morals among
movie people, is apt to lose faith in the story of
Sodom and Gomorrah. The present opposition of
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 181
the "League of Decency" will be like the story of
"Ajax defying the lightning"; or the baby rabbit
which spit in the bull dog's face. Our newspapers
are controlled by the movie producers. The only
chance the "League of Decency" has is to start their
own newspapers.
Newspapers print the picture of Mary Doe, who
has just secured a divorce from her third husbana,
and will marry Richard Roe as soon as Richard
divorces his fourth wife.
We have been 10,000 years building up a code
of morals, which is being disregarded, ignored in
Hollywood. Vices and habits of which ordinary
mortals are ashamed, are used as advertising
stunts.
The publicity methods of movie producers have
been used —exaggerated —by women movie stars.
Fress agents are paid to keep their names in print.
Their pictures are printed in Cult literature, tell
ing of cures, not only of the star, but her relatives
as well. Their pictures appear in advertisements
of Soap, Cigarettes and Tooth Paste. They can
always sprain an ankle, be bitten by a dog, or
bawled out by a policeman. They can have their
jewels stolen, or their auto wrecked. They can
always announce that they are engaged—or dis
engaged. During a period of two years, just about
half of the Hollywood stars "denied" that they
were engaged to Chas. A. Lindberg, Gene Tunney,
or Babe Ruth.
About once a week Hollywood produces a new
182 QUACKS
movie, which is advertised as "The most stupen
dous spectacle ever produced."
Enterprising movie producers can stage a Polar
scene with Eskimos and dogs on one end of a lot,
and a desert scene with Arabs and camels on the
other end of the same lot. A recent film, widely
exploited as having been taken "In an African
jungle, never before visited by white men," was
taken in Hollywood with a lot of naked negroes
recruited from the slums of Los Angeles, and a
few caged, stuffed and faked animals. One exciting
scene was a couple of "Explorers" subduing and
filming a mangy old lion, which had long ago lost
his teeth, and any disposition to chew meat.
The gullible American public stood in line to
buy dollar tickets, and raved over the bravery of
American explorers until a Los Angeles Negro who
had worn a moth eaten fur suit and had been
filmed as a gorilla sued the movie company and
exposed the fake.
For ten cents an adolescent boy can see a "Gang
picture" where crooks and cops chase each other
through four or five exciting reels, and the palpitat
ing audience breaks into applause when the leading
gangster shoots the policeman in the back.
Billboards and street signs in every town an
nounce that the "Bank of Italy is the largest in
the world." Imperial Valley is the "Largest irri
gation district in the world." In an hour's drive
on one road west from Los Angeles, motorists can
see billboards announcing, "The largest Walnut
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 183
Grove in the World"; "The largest Poultry Farm
in the World" ; and two dairy farms, each of which
has "The Largest Herd of Guernsey Cattle in the
World." Continuous exploitation of the climate,
has drawn to Southern California, many middle
aged, and elderly persons, with money, who don't
mind spending money if they can be comfortable.
It has also drawn many persons of limited means
who propose to stay there and get a living—some
way. Some of the latter class are willing to work,
many of them do work. But jobs are not plentiful,
a man must create some sort of business to secure
employment.
Vendors of everything are omnipresent, offer
ing their wares, which range from flowers and
fruit to a $50,000 villa with a canyon in the front
yard and a mountain in the backyard.
Every drink of water is measured and some one
must pay for it.
Just now the U. S. Government is arranging to
spend $165,000,000 on Boulder dam. While this is
considered an "irrigation" project, the real pur
pose is to furnish water for Los Angeles, 200 miles
away.
Nearly all of us have a deep rooted sense of re
ligion, and a middle aged person with money and
nothing to do is quite likely to become an ardent
religionist. Southern California cities, towns and
suburbs are full of wealthy matrons, widows and
maids who foster all sorts of strange religions.
They give financial assistance to healing cults
184 QUACKS
and political ideas. Nearly every meeting of a
town council is waited on by committees of old
ladies with some unusual idea. As they are prop
erty owners, tax-payers and voters, they must be
considered.
At least two judges in Los Angeles were in sym
pathy with the cults. Judge Carlos Hardey is dis
cussed later in this chapter. In 1928, when it be
came apparent that smallpox was present in Los
Angeles, the health department issued a warning
advising every one to be vaccinated. The cults
advised against vaccination, Judge D. L. Edmunds
in an article in the Christian Science Monitor,
stated that the "alleged epidemic" was a frame-up
by the M. D.'s, who proposed to make money—big
money—by their alleged methods of immunization.
The city Board of Health distributed 50,000 hand
bills and wrote thousands of letters explaining the
danger of smallpox.
In spite of this there was an epidemic and 165
foolish persons, who had refused to be vaccinated,
died of smallpox.
During an investigation of judicial crookedness,
a third judge jumped over a cliff and killed him
self.
As religion grew out of the desire to live for
ever, any cult leader who makes extravagant prom
ises is sure to have a following. Los Angeles
claims a population of one million and the annual
tourist crops is three million, many of whom ex
pect to remain. Many tourists are repeaters, some
are annual visitors, but the real money is made
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 185
on new ones. Many tourists are in poor health
and some have imaginary ailments. Every brand
of Religion and Quackery thrives. Charlatans go
after anybody who can help out on contributions,
and always on the watch for big money. Parasites
like those who followed Christ for the loaves and
fishes help out with testimonials of healing.
All of the established agencies of religion in
Los Angeles have commisaries and dispense food
and clothing to the needy, from which cures are
recruited. Stories are told of repeaters who go
from one place of healing to another. One Swe
dish girl is said to have walked into Angeles tem
ple and discarded crutches a dozen times at $10
per. An indigent adherent of a cult, who is living
off of the cult, is willing to tell any sort of a story
the cult teaches him.
The Los Angeles Sunday paper of January 6,
1929, carried 96 medical advertisements. The
largest of these was a full page of W. 0. Coffee's
fraudulent promise of a cure for deafness. The
smallest was a one-inch ad for Chichester's Pills
with a fraudulent promise of abortion.
The same day a collection of church programs
told of all sorts of agencies for healing. One of
them, "Choir Echoes," published by the First M.
E. Church Choir Association, had seven advertise
ments of Quacks. One of these purported to grow
hair on bald heads. Another was "Positive Reju
venation comes with Chiropractic Adjustments."
This ad was run by a woman Chiropractor, said to
186 QUACKS
be a good looker and seemed like an easy way for
male visitors to meet one of the sisters.
The "Glorious Climate of California" has been
good bait and every resident is climate conscious.
On a foggy or rainy morning the waiter who
charges you 25c for doughnuts and coffee, apolo
gises for the bad weather, assuring you that it is
unusual. The barbers, the bootblacks, the street car
conductors and the clerks all apoligize for rain,
snow, hail and fog. Here again you can note the
tourist. He says the weather is rotten. The resi
dent says its unusual. Many tourists are disap
pointed in the health giving climate. Being 3000
miles from home, broke, sick, out of a job and with
out a friend does not help a man appreciate cli
mate.
In July, 1930 there were 56 suicides in Los An
geles, besides other "sudden deaths" from "un
known causes."
In and around Los Angeles there are 42 Chris
tian Science Churches, and 160 church organiza
tions which do not come within the pale of Ortho
doxy, representing 40 different cults. One Chris
tian Science church was builit by John S. Hawley.
He had nephritis, physicians told him his case
was incurable. The Christian Scientist cured him.
Out of gratitude he arranged to build the church
and died of Nephritis. Another Cult temple was
built for the Blavatsky Theosophists at Point Loma
by A. G. Spalding. He amassed a fortune through
the sale of athletic apparatus, came to California
to spend his declining years and fell into the hands
AIMEE SBMPLE MACPHERSON 187
of Madame Blavatsky, who was a large unkempt
person, and an incessant smoker of cigarettes.
Our ideas of religion are undergoing a change.
Thousands of good people are not satisfied with
established religions and are seeking for new spir
itual foundations for new systems of theology.
Hence, many new cults, and new fashions in faith.
Southern California, having many people with
much money and leisure, offers many new and
strange cults.
For the invalid tourists who throng the parks,
there are promises of health and everlasting life.
Mormonism, Christian Science and Seventh Day
Adventists instead of sending missionaries to the
old world, send them to the Pacific Coast. While
the older faiths are apparently losing ground,
these three newest systems of theology seem to be
prospering. The Order of the Star of the East has
a 1000-acre colony, the U. S. Headquarters of Annie
Besants Theosophy and her slant eyed Oriental
protege, whom she calls a reincarnation of Christ.
Annie wants it distinctly understood that she is
not allied with the Blavatsky Cult Theosophists
with headquarters at Point Loma, and the Blavat
sky crowd is equally sure that they do not want
Annie.
Two branches of Rosicrucians, a 300-year-old
Cult, each under Jewish leadership, each calling
the other frauds, are established at San Jose, and
Oceanside.
The International Bible Students' Association,
followers of Pastor Russell, has headquarters at
188 QUACKS
San Diego, and claim one million members, in
spite of their error in predicting the end of all
material things in 1914. When the universe did not
stop on their schedule, a new crop of literature was
circulated and three leaders of the Cult were sent to
the Federal Prison.
The present head of the Cult is Judge J. F.
Rutherford, a lawyer and Circuit Judge, originally
from Southern Illinois. Judge "sacrificed" his law
practice and resigned his judgeship to come to
San Diego. He has written six books explaining
the tenets of the Cult. The sub-title of one of these
books is "Everlasting life on earth in contentment
and complete happiness." These books are printed
and sold by the Cult, but the copyright is made
to Judge Rutherford. According to their adver
tisements one million copies of one book were sold
in four months. Judge's royalty on this one book
was something like $45,000 in four months. No
doubt the Judge feels the sacrifice of his law prac
tice very keenly.
The Cult has deeded a mansion with nicely land
scaped grounds, to certain old Testament char
acters, soon to return to earth, and have Palm and
Olive trees growing to make these worthies feel
at home after their long absence from earth.
A Cult at Ventura called "The Divine Order of
the Royal Arts of the Great Seal," led by Mrs. May
Otis Blackburn, which held wierd ceremonies, and
preserved the bodies of members for ressurection,
found a man named Clifford Dabney who had
$40,000.
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 189
They told him that he was the returned Messiah
and got his $40,000 to furnish him proof of his
identity.
As proof was not forthcoming Dabney had May
Otis pinched. He certainly wanted a lot for his
$40,000, but it had gone forever. This Cult had
subsidized a Physician named J. A. Mouncy, who
signed death certificates for corpses which he had
never seen in the flesh. May Otis who was 60
had a 24-year-old husband.
The Seventh day Adventists who began as heal
ers, have degenerated into teachers of Regular
Medicine, are in a good standing with the Medical
profession, and have a Medical College at Loma
Linda, where they train help for their $3,000,00C
Sanitarium at Battle Creek, Michigan. This school
called School of Medical Evangelists, was moved
from Battle Creek when the State of Michigan
raised the requirements. They also have a large
printing plant at Mountain View, and Paradise
View Sanitarium at National City, using the slogan
"Health is contagious here."
All of these Cults are active and aggressive, and
don't mind spending money. Two years ago, all of
the Cults united on "A Bill for Medical Freedom."
Every possible agency which money could handle
was used to fight "The Medical Trust".
The Cults won; now they are united in fighting
"To make Vivisection unlawful". If they win this
fight the next one will probably be "Make the Prac
tice of Medicine unlawful" and put 5000 Physicians
out of business.
190 QUACKS
Three counties in Southern California, with a
population of one million, have 5,000 physicians,
or 5 physicians for each 1000 people. The average
for the United States is one per 1000. With one-
third the population of Indiana, Southern Califor
nia has more physicians than Indiana. With one-
half of the population of Louisiana, Southern Cal
ifornia has twice as many physicians. With one-
half the population of Kansas, Southern California
has twice as many physicians.
These are honest-to-goodness Physicians, men
who have graduated from Medical colleges and met
the legal requirements regulating the practice of
medicine.
In addition to 5000 Physicians these three coun
ties have 468 Osteopaths (one-sixth of all the Oste
opaths in the world), 1100 Chiropractors, 312
Christian Science healers and non-descript healers,
world without end. Not the least of these is Aimee
Semple MacPherson. Aimee's sensational career
would not have been possible any place besides
Los Angeles.
Aimee is aged 40, is of heavy, stocky build, with
oversized legs like an old-fashioned square piano.
Her features are coarse and sensual, her voice is
harsh, her hair is red, and as coarse as a horse's
tail. Aimees name appears in "who's who" but her
life story there begins with 1918, at which time
she was 30 years old.
In 1918 Aimee landed in Los Angeles, apparently
after having had little success elsewhere. Little
is known of her past. She lost a husband by death,
another divorced her. This divorce was granted
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 191
April 12, 1921, at Providence, Rhode Island, on
grounds of desertion. It was uncontested and wit
nesses for the husband testified that Aimee had re
peatedly gone into hysterics when things did not
suit her.
Two children were horn to her, one fathered by
each husband. Both husbands were apparently ac
cessories to her revivals. Her mother, Mrs. Ken
nedy, has also been one of her regular assistants.
In Sept., 1931, Aimee went by aeroplane to Yu
ma, Ariz, with a man who became her third hus
band. This trip was to avoid a minor technicality
in the marriage laws of California. As a publicity
stunt it failed, newspapers have been good to
Aimee, but this time they did not give her space.
When Aimee bought this third husband, she neg
lected getting an abstract of title, and was soon in
the divorce court again.
As might be expected, Aimee has a direct commis
sion from the Deity, she heals by laying on of
hands. She will live forever. Also she is contin
ually being harassed by forces of evil similar to
Mary Baker Eddy's Malicious Animal Magnetism.
Aimee's obsession is a form of "Exaggerated
Ego," or "Superiority Complex." She thinks she is
so important that all the forces of evil are com
bined to fight her. For no apparent reason, aside
from publicity, she has reported plots against her.
Like Mary Baker Eddy, she seemed to fear physical
violence from her former associates and employees.
One, H. A. Chaney and his wife, who for several
years were assistants at Angelus Temple, quit—
192 QUACKS
or were fired—and denounced Aimee as a fakir,
said her gift of tongues was the rankest sort of
nonsense, and her healings arranged by her as
sistants. However, no one except Aimee was will
ing to believe that they would resort to violence,
when Aimee demanded the protection of the law.
Some folks in Los Angeles seem to believe im
plicitly in Aimee as a Messiah. Some consider her
a fake but tolerate her as her influence seems to
be for better living. Some think she is an im
moral charlatan who should be suppressed. Often
they quarrel about this on the way home from
Angelus Temple.
Almost every night folks who never saw eacb
other before, fuss about Aimee on the way home
in the street car. At least once a week, some one
is taken to Police Court for fighting some one else,
over Aimee's claim to Divine Authority.
Aimee's first services in Los Angeles were held
in tents or in small rented halls. With the large
transient population, always present in Los An
geles, Aimee's audiences soon outgrew small halls.
Visitors must be entertained, and must find some
thing to take up their time. No tourist feels that
he has seen Los Angeles unless he has been to
Angelus Temple.
When the need of a temple became apparent,
appeals were made for money, material and labor.
A generous woman donated a site for a temple,
other followers donated labor, and many dealers
in material were generous. Aimee decided to build
a two million dollar structure and call it Angelus
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 193
Temple of the Four Square Gospel. It was built as
funds accumulated. It was opened January, 1923.
Since then the lights have always burned and the
doors remained open. Women have prayed all day
in two hour shifts. Men pray likewise at night. The
most powerful radio station in Los Angeles broad
casts each service, concluding with a sacred con
cert at midnight. A chorus of shapely, handsome
women, selected and paid without regard to past
or morals, execute marches and drills, all dressed
alike. Four Square Gospel Temples are all the way
up and down the coast, mostly women pastors.
Aimee is the only person in Los Angeles who
can outdress the Hollywood stars. A street dress
which costs several hundred dollars is discarded
after being worn a few times.
When Aimee returned from the Holy land in
1930, she brought with her costumes costing as
much as $300, and a suit of "Pyjamas" costing
$138.
Her preaching costume is of white with a Bible
bound to match. Inside the Bible is a vanity case,
a mirror on the inside cover tells her that her
makeup is a success.
Aimee has used advertising methods similar to
a three-ring circus, but instead of charging a small
admission, has found it more profitable to accept
contributions. All around the walls of Angelus
Temple are contribution boxes, each bearing a
label, Folks who do not favor Foreign Missions,
have a dozen chances to contribute to home pro
jects, varying from orphan children to the Old
194 QUACKS
Ladies' Home, and from the support of the two
million dollar Temple to a soup house in the slums.
If a river overflows or a few shacks burn, immedi
ately a contribution box "for flood sufferers" or
"homeless familes" is displayed and attention
called to it from the pulpit.
A ten foot imitation marble cross, with hundreds
of electric lights is manipulated from back stage.
The ceiling is painted blue, with fleecy clouds. A
painted water fall is at the rear of the stage, and
during baptismal ceremonies, a stream of real wa
ter is turned on and trickles down over this paint
ing. Baptism by immersion costs $5 or what have
you. On unusual occasions Aimee stops services
long enough to have photographs taken.
Regular healing services are held on Wednes
day and Saturday evenings, always accompanied
by music. One feature is testimonials of those
healed in previous services. As might be expected
many testify to having been healed of tuberculosis,
epilepsy and cancer.
Perhaps one-third of all testimonials relates to
cancer. While these testimonies are nearly all
from persons who apparently belong to the indus
trial class, their stories are well told—evidently
well rehearsed.
The stories are told entirely too freely and in
too logical a manner for amateurs.
After the testimonials comes healing. Aimee
produces a small bottle of oil, touching the afflicted
on the forehead.
There are many candidates for cures, but they
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 195
are not all admitted. A few selected cases are
brought in, the others turned away with instruc
tions to have faith, they will be admitted at some
future time. Many fakes have been reported, some
evidently have imposed on Aimee. Some so glaring
that even Aimee must have known they were not
on the level.
I was unable to find any person who actually
knew of a real cure.
December 20, 1928, "Rev." Arthur S. Arnold was
sentenced to serve one to five years for forgery.
Five years before he was led in to Aimee's pres
ence "blind." His vision was restored and he was
made one of her assistants, which position he held
five years until arrested for forgery. During his
trial it developed that he never had been blind.
Once a week the night offering is for Aimee, the
temple holds 5000 and every one present is urged
to throw in at least $1. When Aimee pulls the
tremolo stop and rolls her calf eyes heavenward,
$1 seems like small change. If Aimee needs money
between collections she helps herself from the
temple funds.
One of Aimee's purchases was a $2000 saddle
horse, which was soon sold because her followers
lacked sporting blood, and objected to her horse
being entered at the Annual Horse Show.
A Boston minister, while visiting in Los Angeles,
was surprised to hear Aimee state over the radio
that she had been his guest in Boston and had
preached to thousands from his pulpit. When he
denied this, Aimee very promptly admitted that
196 QUACKS
she had lied, and knew she was lying, but could
not see that any one had been injured. However,
she agreed that she would never tell this particu
lar lie again.
Aimee had a radio operator named Kenneth
Ormiston. He was slightly lame, hence, was easily
identified. He had a wife who made a lengthy visit
to Australia, and lived on funds sent to her from
Angelus Temple.
Aimee and Ormiston were reported to be fond
of each other, and were together entirely too much
to suit some of the faithful.
During the winter of 1925-26 she made a trip
to the Holy land, one purpose of which was to get
away from Ormiston.
While Aimee did a lot of hiring and firing she
did not fire Ormiston.
On May 18, 1926, Aimee dressed in her emerald
green bathing suit and with her secretary, drove
down to the beach. While Aimee was in the water
the secretary went across the street to use the tele
phone, returning in just a few minutes. After
waiting an hour or more and Aimee not in sight,
the secretary became alarmed and reported her
disappearance. Aimee's mother showed little anxi
ety. Her first instructions were to bring the auto
mobile home. The Newspapers got out extras an
nouncing the drowning of Los Angele's most wide
ly advertised citizen, thereby giving her the great
est publicity she ever had. It was soon apparent
that Kenneth Ormiston, the radio operator, was
AIMEE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 197
also missing and that his big blue automobile was
gone.
Some how or other a large part of the population
believed that the story of Aimee's death had been
exaggerated.
On May 26, 1926, a newspaper reporter named
Wallace Moore, who was well acquainted in Los
Angeles, saw on the streets of Santa Barbara,
100 miles away, the blue coupe of Ormiston.
He stopped the coupe and talked to Ormiston,
who was driving. In the coupe with Ormiston
was a woman, wearing blue goggles, whom Moore
positively identified as Aimee.
A few days later, Carlos Hardy, judge of the Su
perior Court, called at the newspaper office, and
told Moore of the injustice of a positive identifica
tion, and the possibility of criminal prosecution
in case of mistaken identity.
Then rumors came to Los Angeles that a lame
man and a large woman were sojourning in a cot
tage in Carmel by the Sea. Sixteen persons, in
cluding next door neighbors identified this couple
as Ormiston and Aimee.
As the couple disappeared promptly, officers
were unable to locate them. Ormiston returned to
Los Angeles and admitted having been at Carmel,
and referred to his companion as Mrs. X. He re
mained a few days and disappeared. He afterward
appeared in Chicago and advised Los Angeles folks
that he would never return and has not.
Meanwhile, a Mrs Wiseman—Seilaff in Los An
geles, had volunteered the information that she,
198 QUACKS
and not Aimee, had shared the cottage at Carmel.
When it was shown that she was elsewhere dur
ing the few days the cottage was occupied, she
testified that she had been hired to tell this story
and that arrangements for the the story had been
made by the same Judge Hardy who had talked to
Wallace Moore about identification.
For three days after Aimee's disappearance,
members of Angelus Temple, prayed and sang on
the beach expecting her to walk out of the ocean
alive. Then they lost hope. A reward of $25,000
was offered for the recovery of the body. Motor
boats and airoplanes worked day and night in the
search.
Two men were drowned in the vain search. Rus
sell McKinley, an attorney, one of Aimee's legal
force, was killed in an auto accident. A. M. Waters,
a physician in the case, committed suicide. The
owner of the love nest, in Carmel said his resort
had been ruined and died of heart failure. Two
men quarreled about the case and one shot the
other.
Aimee's followers raised a memorial fund of
$25,000 and gave it to Mrs. Kennedy, who accepted
it after dreaming that Aimee was still alive.
A museum with wax figures of Aimee and the
rest, did a big business until a mob of Aimee's
followers raided the place and destroyed the fig
ures.
A Los Angeles psychic saw Aimee dead on the
bottom of the ocean. Mother Kennedy dreamed
that Aimee was alive, and mother was right. Hus
AIMEE SBMPLE MACPHERSON 199
bands and wives quarreled about tbe case. Chil
dren left home because they could not agree with
the parents about Aimee.
On June 21, five weeks after Aimee's disappear
ance elaborate funeral services were held, a fu
neral without a corpse. Two days after this funeral
Aimee walked into the little Mexican town of Agua
Prieta, just across the border from Douglass, Ari
zona. She told that she had been kidnapped by
a couple of Mexicans, named Rosa and Steve, and
had been held a prisoner. She had escaped from a
shack, and had walked 20 miles under the mid
summer, desert sun. She reported to an army
camp. The officers called a Douglass policeman,
and sent her to Dr. Armstrong of Douglass. She
never gave any explanation of how she swapped
the emerald green bathing suit for a street dress,
or how she happened to be wearing the same wrist
watch she wore at Los Angeles. Her high heeled
shoes and silk stocking were unmarred by hiking
20 miles through cactus plants. The policeman
and Dr. Armstrong noted the absence of thirst and
said she could not possibly have walked 20 miles
—or even one mile—without some evidence of suf
fering.
A Douglass cartoonist drew a picture of "Aimee
and the shack," and called it Agua Prieta Moon
shine.
A Douglass minister, James E. Howard, agreed
with Aimee about being kidnapped and received a
check for $150. Several army officers at the army
post, who had withheld criticism, each received a
200 QUACKS
new uniform with Aimee's compliments. Aimee
offered a substantial reward for the discovery of
the "shack." Aviators flew over hundreds of square
miles for days, but found no shack. Aimee's attor
ney, Ormsley, came to Douglass, and escorted her
back to a triumphal reception at Los Angeles.
With her usual display of unlimited gall, Aimee
demanded that the Federal government capture
and punish her kidnappers, even if it required a
war with Mexico. Ormsley and Judge Hardy sup
ported her in this demand, but the Federal authori
ties declined to start any war.
Just what prompted Aimee to tell the story of
kidnapping has never been shown.
It was evidently intended for publicity. Ormi-
ston made a complete disappearance without tell
ing much.
While Ma Kennedy was evidently in on the plot,
she would tell nothing, even after she had a falling
out with Aimee, but stated that she thought Aimee
should make a confession concerning her kidnap
ping.
Rev. John Goben, one of Aimee's business mana
gers, after being fired, expressed the opinion that
Ormiston met Aimee in Mexico after his short visit
to Los Angeles, and remained there when Aimee
hiked out of the desert. This may account for
Aimee having a change of clothing and a wrist
watch.
Immorality is hard to prove, and as stated by a
competent legal authority "is not a crime as it is
not committed with malice."
AIMBE SEMPLE MACPHERSON 20]
A charge of conspiracy was made against Aimee
The charge was that she had conspired with Ken
neth Ormiston, Mrs. Minnie Kennedy and Mrs. Lor
raine Wiseman-Selloff to perpetrate a fraud, in the
name of religion, and for the purpose of securing
publicity. The case was dismissed with the con
sent of the prosecuting attorney and Judge Hardy.
At this trial, Ma Kennedy, Aimee, her attorney,
(Ormsly), her manager (Jordan), and Judge Hardy
all denied that Hardy was interested in the case,
said he was merely acting through friendship.
Two years later, five of Aimee's pastors, two of
whom had just been fired, accused Aimee of mis
appropriating funds, and dragged the books of An-
gelus Temple into court.
It was shown for the first time, that Judge Hardy
had been paid $2500 entered on the books as "legal
and defense," and the Judge was impeached.
Checks for $2500 had also been paid to two other
lawyers. It was also shown that Aimee had a bank
account under the name of Mrs. Johnson.
The prosecuting attorney was found guilty of
accepting a bribe in another case and sent to states
prison.
During this trial it was shown that Aimee's de
fense cost $100,000 (plus $7500 attorney fees)
which was paid to several "fixers" in a lump sum,
to clear Aimee of the charge of conspiracy. Judge
Hardy's $2,500 was always referred to as a love
offering and not included in this $100,000.
Aimee had hired and fired seven or eight law
yers. One lawyer, Cromwell Ormsley, arranged
202 QUACKS
for Aimee's trip to Palestine in 1930, and had
drawn her contract for moving pictures and was
to have a percentage of proceeds. He was fired
In November, 1929, and sued Aimee for $324,000.
Aimee then hired George Acret. Within 30 days she
fired Acret and hired Joseph Ford. Aimee was
kept busy hiring and firing lawyers, managers and
assistant pastors, and even Ma Kennedy had quit
her.
February 20, 1929, the general assembly of Cali
fornia, by vote of 57 to 18 impeached Judge Hardy.
Asa Keyes, prosecuting attorney, had already
been convicted of accepting a bribe of $140,000 in
another case and sentenced to prison for one to
fourteen years, hence, was not prosecuted in
Aimee's case.
During the trial of Keyes, two convicts, each
serving a life sentence, were brought from the
state prison at Folsom as witnesses.
While these convicts, who were handcuffed to
gether, were being taken through the corridor of
the County prison, one convict put his free hand
under his coat, produced a revolver and began
shooting. He was grabbed from behind by a negro
porter, and both convicts shot and killed by a by
stander. The convict's gun, identified by its serial
number belonged to the sheriff's office. In the
dead convict's pockets were found the key to the
handcuffs and a floor plan of the building showing
exits. As both convicts were dead, and could tell
nothing, no one knew the plot. However, it seems
AIMEE SEMPLB MACPHERSON 203
that some one, in authority had promised them a
chance to escape.
They evidently knew something which might
be embarrassing to the officers.
Hence, it would seem that officers of the law,
in California, are much like officers of the law in
other states.
Aimee's plans included a 13-story office building,
When she failed to build it, certain interests sued
her for $216,418 damages, etc.
Shortly after this suit, another suit was filed by
Rev. H. H. Clark against Aimee's mother, alleging
breach of promise, and asking for $50,000 damages
for broken heart and other injuries. This suit was
thrown out of court. However, it gives an idea
of the impression of easy money which prevails
around Angelus Temple. Suing Aimee is a very
popular "indoor sport" around Los Angeles.
The writer spent four months in California get
ting the material for this chapter, and made a trip
to Douglass, Arizona, to be sure of certain features
in the case. Several hundred pages of data were
condensed into one small chapter. Six months
later I was in Detroit and Aimee came there, a
blonde, with curls like little Lord Fauntleroy.
Her locks of Titian gold had been replaced by
flaxen tresses which betokened an undue famili
arity with Peroxide of Hydrogen.
Otherwise, she was the same old Aimee. Her
mission there was to convert Detroit and she pro
posed to do it in two weeks. More than 1000 rev
enue officers were working there vainly endeavor
204 QUACKS
ing to suppress one form of vice, and not succeed
ing. Hence, Aimee's proposition to clean up the
town, unaided, in two weeks, might have been dis
couraging to an ordinary mortal.
The Masonic Temple was rented at something
like $1000 per night. Other expenses amounted to
$600 or more per night.
In spite of unusual publicity, attendance and col
lections were poor and Aimee left Detroit, leaving a
deficit of $6000 for her churches and pastors to
face.
One pastor revolted and withdrew his support.
Aimee revoked his commission to preach. He re
taliated by saying that he had a commission from
God Almighty and went on preaching. One even
ing she cut her sermon to 20 minutes to address
fans at a prize fight, but the fans did not take her
seriously, and booed and hissed, and would not
give the announcer a chance to introduce her.
However, Aimee had the usual pictures taken for
publicity and left the prize ring. Also she con
ducted two healing services and left Detroit with
the consent of everybody.
This Chapter reproduced as a pamphlet.
1 Copy by mall, postpaid, 20c
100 Copies, by mail, postpaid, $5.00
Chas. W. Warner, Jackson, Mississippi
INDEX
Abrams, Albert _ 22, 56
Advertising 80, 10ft
Arkansas License 65
Baldness 24
California _ _ 179
Cancer 21, 58
Chiropractors 11, 63, 97
Christian Science _ 15, 31, 157
Connecticut License 66
Crime _ _ 14
Cults 12, 74, 185
Deafness _ 20, 115, 151
Degrees 61
Degrees 61, 78
Diphtheria 27, 78
Dowie 26, 51, 53
Eddy, Mary Baker 21, 100. 137, 157
Education 31, 61
Egypt 39
Epilepsy 21, 124
Florida License 65
Hospitals 150
House of David 53, 52
Infantile Paralysis 29, 120
Lee, Mrs. Ann 44, 163
Legislation 10, 15, 28, 33, 44, 72, 83, 93, 201
MacFadden Bernarr 64, 83, 87
MacPherson, Aimee 17, 179
Medical Degrees 61,111
Medical Trust _ 67
Mormons 45, 49, 101
206 QUACKS
Moses _ 39
Narcotics 58, 68, 106
Oscilloclast 56
Osteopathy 99, 125
Quimby _ _ 46, 157, 178
Palmer, B. J 13, 85, 97
Physical Culture 82, 95
Post, C. W 52
Radio 85, 195
Rejuvenation _ —.23, 185
Religion 13, 15, 43, 45, 48
Rheumatism 24
Rupture 20
Russell 54
Sandow 89
Sanipractors 18, 144
Seventh Day Adventists 51
Shakers _ 44, 100, 163
Smallpox 27, 75, 183
Solomon 9, 23, 79
Still 24, 99, 126
Tuberculosis 21, 85
Vaccination 27, 76
Utah 49
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IIIIIIQIIIUIlliHIIIlllllll
3 9015 06316 2377
Taubman Medical Library
Do Not Remove
or Mutilate Card
DEMCO
