{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__anonymous___sketches_of_imposture_deception_and_credulity.pdf","mytitle":"Sketches Of Imposture Deception And Credulity","mylang":"de"}
SK.ETCHES
IMPOSTURE, DECEPTION,
AND
CREDULITY.
" The earth hath Bubbl•s, as the watl!l" has,
And these are of the!fl."-SHAKSPBARL
" The prejudice of credulity may, In some measure, be cured by
le3rolng to set a high value on truth."-WATTS,
LONDON:
PUBLISHED BY THOMAS TEGG AND ~ON,
73, CIIEAPSWE.
>IDCCCJXXTII.
LOIIDON!
PRINTED BY BRADBURY AND &VAMI,
WRITJEFI.UAL
: \7•
·~
ADVERTISEMENT.
A COMPLETE history of the subject which occupies
these pages would fill an ·equal number of the
ponderous folios over which our ancestors were
accustomed to pore. The author of " Sketches of
Imposture, Deception, and Credulity,'' !aspires only
to give, under various heads, a sample of the manifold
frauds which have, in all.ages, been successfully e~­
ployed to frighten and gull mankind. His volume may
be considered as a humble supplement to Sir Walter
Scott's " Letters on Demonology and Witchcraft,''
and Sir Dayid Brewster's" Letters on Natural Magic."
It it should be found to afford to the Public only a
quarter as much amusement and instruction as have
been derived from those excellent works, his ambition
will be amply gratified.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
I IITROnUCTORY REilARif.8.
Effects of Incredulity and Credulity-Knowledge supposed to
be Remembrance-Purpose of this Volume-Progress of
rational Belief-Reeemblanee of Error to Truth-Contagi-
ous Nature of Excitement-Improved State of the Human
Mind in Modem Time•
CHAPTER II.
ON ANCII<NT ORACL1!B, &c,
Remote Origin of Oracles-Influence of Oracles-Opinions
respecting them-Cause ofthe Cessationof Oracles-Super-
stition early systematized in Egypt-fuotia early famous
for Oracle-Origin of the Oracle ofDodona-Ambignity
of Oracular_ Re1ponses-Stratagem of a Peasant-Oracles
disbelieved by Ancient Philosophei'II-Cyrus and the Idol
Bel-Source of Fire-Worshipping-Victory of Canopus
over Fire-The Sphinx-Sounds heard from it-Sup-
posed Cause of them-Mysterious Sounds at Nakous-
Frauds of the Priests of Serapt-The Statue of Memnon-
Oracle of Delphi-Its Origin-Changes which it under-
went-The Python-Danger attendant on her Office-
Tricks played by Heathen Priests-Origin of the Gordian
Knot-The Knot ia cut by Alexander-Ambrosian, Logan
or -Rocking Stones-Representations of them on Ancient
Coi-Pliny's Description of a Logan Stone in Asia-
Stones at Bitney, in Cornwall, and at Castle Treryn-The
latter is overthrown, and replaced-Logan Stones are
PAG&
Druidical Monu111ents !i
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
lNTkODUCTORY REJIARU.
Effects of Incredulity and Credulity-Knowledge supposed to
be Remembrance-Pnrpoee of thla Volume-Progress of
ration:U Belief-Reeemblance of Error to Truth-Contagi-
ous Nature of Excitement-Improved State of the Human
Mind in Modem Time•
CHAPTER II.
ON AIIICIRNT OUCLD, &c.
Remote 01igin of Oracles-Inftuence of Oracles-Opinions
respecting them-Cause ofthe Ce~&ation of Oraclea-Super-
stition early systematized in Egypt-fuotia early famous
for Oraclea-Origin of the Oracle of Dodona-Ambignity
of Oracular Reaponses-Stf!'tagem of a Peasant-Oracles
disbelieved by Ancient Philosophers-Cyrus and the Idol
Be1--8ource of Fire-Worabipping-Victory of Canopua
over Fire-The Sphinx-Sounds beard from it-Sup-
poaed Cause of tbem-Myateriout Sounds at Nakous-
Frauda of the Priests of Serapia-The Statue of Memnon-
Oracle of Delphi-Ita Origin-Changes which it under-
went-The Pythoneaa-Danger attendant on her Oftic-
Trieka played by Heathen Prieata-Origin of the Gordian
Kn.ot-The Knot ia cut by Alexander-Ambl'08ian, Logan
or Rocking Ston-Representations of them on Ancient
Coii!.-Piiny'a Description of a Logan Stone In Asia-
Stones at Sitney, in Cornwall, and at Castle Treryn-The
latter Ia overthrown, and replaced-Logan Stones are
PAG.:
Druidical MonuuJents . li
vi CONTENTS.
CHAPTER III.
PAL8E MUIUBB, PROPHETS, AND JIIIUCLttS.
Suaeeptibility of the Imagination in the East-Mahomet-His
Origin-He aaaumes the Title of the Apostle of God-
Opposition to him--"Revelations brought to Him by the
Angel Gabriel-His Flight to Medina-Success of his Im-
posture--Attempt to poison him-His Death-Tradition
respecting his Tomb-Account of his Intercourse with
Heaven--Sabatai Sevi, a false Messiah-Superstitious Tra..
dition among the Jews-Reports respecting the Coming
of the Messiah--Sabatai pretends to be the Messiah-He
is assisted by Nathan-Follies committed by the Jews-
Honours paid to Sabatai-He embarks for Constantinople
-His Arrest-He embrace& Mahometanism to avoid DfOath
-Rosenfeld, a German, proclaims himself the Messiah-
PAGR
His Knavery-He is whipped and imprisoned-Richard
Brothers announoes himself as the revealed Prince and
Prophet ofthe Jews-He dies in Bedlam-Thomas Muncer
and his Aaaociates-Their Fate-Matthias, John of Ley-
den, and other Anabaptist Leaders-They are defeated and
executed-The French Prophets-Punishment ofthem-
Miracles at the Grave of the Deacon Paris-Horrible
Self-inflictions of the Convuleionaries-The Brothers of
Brugglen-They are .executed-Propht'Cy of a Li'f'&-
guardsman in London--Joanna Southcott-Her Origin,
Progress, and Death-Folly of her Discipl-Miracles of
Prince Hohenlohe 24
CHAPTER IV.
ROMAN CA.THOLIC BUPJ:RSTJTJONBp ETC.
Account of Pope J oa,_:._Artifice of Pope Sextus V.-Some
Christian Ceremonies borrowed from the Jews and Pagans
-Melting of the Blood of St. Januariui!--Addison'a
opinion of it-Description of the Performance of the Mi.
raclo--Miraculous Image of our Saviour at Rome-Ludi.
crous Metamotphoais of a Statue-Relic-Head of St.
John the Bapt1st-Swot;d of Balaam-St. Ursula and the
Eleven Thousand Virgins-Self-Tormenting-Penances of
St. Dominic the Cuirassier-The Cruaad-Their Cause
and Progreaa, and the immense numbers engaged in them • ' 55
CONTENTS, vii
CHAPTER V.
IIINDOO A}"D OTIIYA ORIF.NTAL SUPERSTITIONS.
. PAGE
OroasSuperstition of the Hindoo Religion-The Bramins and
their Privileges--Immolation of Widows--Ceremonies and
fana.tical Sacrifices at Jaggemant--Pilgrimagea to Hurdwar
-Samld Character of ~he Wa.ters of the Ga.ngee-Follies
committed by Hin<!oo Devotees-Tortures which they in-
ftict on themselves-A Youth induced to sacrifice himself
to Bhyroo by a. supposed Vision-Mutilation to propitiate
the Oodde8S Kali.Ohat--Wild Superstitions of the Malays
~Spirits in which the Mnl~~oys believc-Pontianaka-Tuju
Jindang-Tbe Polong-Mode of exercising the Polong-
Tbe Penangalam-Charms to obtain Revenge on Ene-
mies-The Tuju and the Tuju Jantong-The Paoaw, a
Charm of the Mahonoetan Malaya-Desperate Conduct of a
Man who wore a Panaw-Incantationa of the Shamans,
or Priests, in Siberia 67
CHAPTER VJ.
JtOY.lL IMPOSTOR!.
Pretenders to Royalty numerous--Contest between the
Houses of York and Lancaster gives rise to various P~
tenders-Insurrection of Jack Cade-He is killed-Lam-
bert Simnelis tutored to personate the Earl of Warwick-
Hejs crowned at Dublin-He is taken Prisoner, pardoned,
and made Scullion in the Royal Kitchen-Perkin Warbeck
pretends to be the murdered Duke of York-He ia coun.-
tenanced by the King of France-He is acknowledged by
the Duchess of Burgundy-Perkin lands in Scotland, and
is aided by King James-He is married to Lady Catherine
01>rdon-He invades England, but fails-His Death-
Pretenders in Portugal-Gabriel de Spinosa.-He i• hnnged
-The Son of a Tiler pretends to be Sebastian-He is sent
to the Gallie&-Gon~alo Alvarez succeeds bim-Ho is
executed-An Individual of talents assumes the Character
of Scbutian-Hia extraordinary Behaviour in his. Exami-
natioii8--He is given up to tbe Spaniard&-Hls Sufferings
and dignified Deportment--His Fate not known-Pre-
-
viii CONTEN'fS.
PAGE
tenders in Russ~Tbe first false Demetriu&--He obtains
the Throne, but is driven from it by Insurrection, and is
slain-Other Impostors 8.8sume the same Name-Revolt
of Pngatscheff-Pretenders in France-Hervegault and
Bruneau assume the Cbar:tcter of the deee....d Louis XVII. L3
CHAPTER VII.
DJSGUJSF.S AS&UIIIED BY, OR IN BERALJ' OJ', R.0YALTYa
Disguise of Achille&--Of Ulysse&--Of Codru&--Fiction em-
ployed by Numa Pompiliu&--King Alfred disguised in the
Swineherd'sCottage-His Visit, as a Harper, to the Danish ·
Camp--Richard Cc:eur de Lion takes the Garb of a Pilgrim
-He is discovered and imprisoned-Disguises and Escape
of Mary, Queen of Seot&--Eseape of Charles the Second,
after the Battle of Worcester-Of ::;tanislaus from Dant-
zick-Of Princo Charles Edward from· Scotland-Peter
the Great takes the Dress of a Ship Carpenter-His Visit to
England-Anecdote of his Conduct to a Dutch Skipper-
Stratagem of the Princess Ulrica of Prussia-Pleasant De-
ception practised by Catherine the Second of Russia-Joan
of Are-Her early Life-Discovers the King when first in-
troduced at Court-She compels the English to raise the
Siege of Orleans-Joan leads the King to be crowned at
Rbeims-Sbo is taken Prisoner-Base and barbarous Con-
duet of her Enemies- She is burned at Rouen-The Devil
of Woodstock-Anno)ing Pranks played by it-Explana-
tion of the Myetery-Fair Rosamond 96
•
CHAPTER VIH.
MILITARY STRATAGF.!IIS.
Characteristic Markofa skilful General-Importanceanciently
attaehed to military Stratagem&--The Stratagem ofJoshua at
.Ai the first which is recorded-Stratagem of Julius CII!Bllr
in Gaul-Favourable Omen derived from Sneezing-Arti-
fice of Biu at Priene-Telegraphic Communication-Mode
adopted by HysiiiBUB to convey Intelligence-Relief of
Cuilinum by Gracchu&--Stratagem of the Chevalier de
Luxembourg to convey Ammunition into Liele-Impor-
tanco of concealingthe Death ofa Genetal-Tbo manner in
CONTENTS. ix
P..\GE
which the Death of Sultan Sulyman was kept secret-
Stratagem of John Visconti-Stratagem of Lord Norwich at
Angoul~e-Capturc of Amiens by the Spaniards--Man-
ner in which the Natives of Sonia threw oft' the Yoke. 122
CHAPTER IX•
• ALUfGER.JJfG, OR 81MUL.&.TION OF DIIUBE8.
Former Prevalence ·or Malingering in the Army; and the
Motives for it-Decline of the Practice-Where most Pre-
valent-The means of Simulation reduced to a System-
Cases of simulated Ophthalmia in the 50th Regiment-The
Deception wonderfully kept up by many Malingerers--
Means of Detection-Simulated ParalysiS--Impudent Tri-
umph manifested by Malingerers-Curious case of Hollidge
-Gutta Serena, and Nyctalopia counterfeited-Blind
Soldiera employed in Egypt-Cure, by actual cautery,
of a Malingerer-Simulation of Consumption and other
Diseases--Feigned Deafness--Detection of a Man who
simulated Deafness--Instances of Self-mutilation com-
mitted by Soldiers-Simulation of Death. 131
CHAPTER X.
IUSCELLAN&OUS IMPOSTORS .AND IMPOSTURP.S.
Mary Tofts, the Rabbit Breeder, of Godalming-ProgreH and
Detection ofher ImpostureS--Poisoning of St. Andr~-The
Bottle Conjuror-Advertisements on this Occasion-Riot
produced by the Fraud-Squibs and Epigrams to which it
gave rise-Case of Elizabeth Canning-Violent Controversy
which arose out of it-Bhe is found guilty of Perjury and
transported-The Cock Lane Ghost-Public Excitement
oocaaioned by it-Detection of the Fraud-Motive for the
"'Imposture-The Stockwell Ghost-The &mpford Ghost-
Mystery in which the Afl'air was involved-Astonishing
Instance of Credulity in Perigo and his Wife--Diabolical
Conduct of Mary Bateman-She is hanged for Murder--
Metamorphosis of the Chevalier d'Eon-Multifatious Dis-
guises ofPrice the Forger-Miss Ro'bertaon-The Fortunate
Youth-;.The Prince~& Olivc-Caraboo-Pretended Fasting
-Margaret Senfrit-Catherine Binder-The Girl ofUnna
-The Osnaburg Girl-Anne Moore. • • • "-"-~
-
X CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XI.
LITERAllY IM.POITOR8 AND DISGUII'IES.
Controversy respecting the Works of Homer; Arguments of
the Disputants- Contl'oversy on the supposed Epistles of
Phalaris-Opinion of Sir William Temple on the Superi-
ority of the Ancients-Dissertation of Dr. Bentley on the
Epistles of Pbalaris-He proves them to be a Forgery-
Doubts as to the Anabasis being the Work of Xenophon
-Arguments of Mr. Milford in the Affirmative-Alcyo-
nius accused of having plagiarised from, and destroyed,
Cicero's Treatise"De Gloria"-Curious Mistake as to Sir
T. More's Utopia--The Icon Basilike-Disputes to which
it gave rise-Arguments, pro and con, as to the real Au-
thor of it-Lauder's Attempt to prove Milton 11 Plagiarist
-Refutation of him by Dr. Dougi-His Interpolations
-George Psalmanazar-His Account of Formosa-His
Repentance and Piety-Publication of Ossinn's Poems
by Mr. Macpherson-Their Authenticity is doubted-Re-
portofthe Highland Societyon the Subject--Pseudonymous
and anonymous Works-Letters of Junius.-The Drapicr's
Letters--Tale of a Tub-Gulliver's Travels-The Waver-
ley Novela-Chatterton and the Rowley Poems-W. H.
Ireland and the Shakspearian Forgeries-Damberger's pre-
tended Travels-Poems of Clotilda de Surville-Wallad-
mor-Hunter, the American-Douville'a Travels in
PAGK
Africa. 163
CHAPTER XII.
M'ASTERPIP.CB8 AND DF.CEPTIONB IN PAINTINO .lND BCULPTUR.&.
Early Practice of Painting and Sculpture-Deception nofthe
purpoae of Painting-Deceptive Powers of enrly Painters:
Zeuxis, Parrhasius, Apelles, and Pt·otogenei-Anecdote of
Vandyke and Frank Hals-Apcllea and the shoemaking
Critic-Apelles at Alexandria-Instances of the Skill of
Apellesand Parrhasius, and ofsome modern Artista-Effects
of Chance in Painting-Origin of the Corinthian Capital-
Origin of Gothic Architecture-Admirable Copy of Raphael
CONTENTS. xi
PAGB
by Del Sarto-Imitative Powers ofSebastian Ricci ; Speech
of La Fosse to him-Ingenious Stratagem of Lord North-
wick-Lauwhable Cheat by Mabuse-Supentitious Stories
respecting Pictures.-Presentation Picture by Rubens-,.
Juan de Pereja, the Mulatto Slave·of Velasquez-Picture-
dealing ; Tricks of Picture-deale~Secret of the Venetian
Style of Colouring-Anecdote of a Picture Collector-
Originals mistaken for Copies-Imitation• of 'Painting-
The Polygraphic Society-Mosaic-Mexican Feather Pic-
tures-,.Stratagem of an Architeet-Michael Angelo's Cupid
-Statue of Charles I. ; of Charles II. • • • 209
CHAPTER Xlll.
IJIPOBTUB.JI'.S IN ENGRlVING.
Fashion·of decrying modern Artists-M. Picart asserts th"
Merit of modem Engravers-Meane employed by him to
prove the Truth of his Assertions-" The innocent Im-
postors "-Goltzius imitates perfectly the Engt"avings of
Albert Durer-Marc .Antonio Raimondi is equally suo-
cessful-Excellent Imitation of Rembrandt's Portrait of
Burgomaster Six~Modern Tricks played with respect to
Engraved Portraits-Sir Joshua Reynol<ls metamorphosed
into " The Monster." • 232
CHAPTER XIV.
I'ORGED lN8CRlPTJOli8 £.JID SPUR.IOUI .EDALS•
.Ancient Memorials of Geographical Discoveries-Mistakes
arising from them-Frauds to which they gave occasion-
Imposture of Evemerus-Annius of Viterbo wrongfully
·charged with forging Insr.riptions-Spurious Works given to
the World '!.y him-Forged Inscriptions put on Statues by
ignorant modem Sculptors-Spurious Medals-Instances of
them in the Cabinet of Dr. Hunter-Coins adulterated
by Grecian Cities-Evelyn's Directions for aacertaining the
Genuineness of Medals-Spurioua Gold Medals-Tricks of
the Manufacturers of Pseudo-Antique Medals-Collectors
addicted to pilfering Rarities-Medals swallowed by Vail-
lant-Mistakes arising from Ignorance of the Chinese
Clulnlcten. • 235
.....
xii CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XV.
SEPULCBIUL .lND Pl!RPETU.of: LUIPS.
PAG.E
Belief in ever-burning sepulchnl Lamps-Such Lamps SUP-
. posed to have originated with theEgyptians-Reason of their
Origin-Variouo Shapes ofEgyptian Lamps-Description of
one-Lamp said to have been found in the Tomb of Pallas
-Its unextinguisbablo Nature-Lampand embalmed Body.
mentioned by Pancirollus-Observation of Ferrarlus-Per-
petual Lamps iu the Temple of Jupiter .Ammon and at
Edessa-Kircher on the Formation of perpetual Lamps-
Trithemius's Recipes to make them-Why such Lamps
were supposed to be possiblein Egypt-SirThomasBrowne's
Conjectures respecting them-Modem Philosot>hers anxious
to form perpetual Lamp.......Suggestions of Dr. Plott respect-
ing tbe Method of making them . 241
CHAPTER XVI.
PANTOMIMIC DELUSJONI.
The Art of Mimicry in ancient and modern Timea-Snperi-
ority of the .Ancientsin that Art-.Advicegiven by Periander
-Fable of Proteus-Education required by a Professor of
the Pantomimic Art-Herodotus-Personation ofthe insane
.Ajax-Timocrates-Archimimea employed at Funerals-
Demetriuo the Cynic converted-Striking Effect of Panto..
mime on two.Barbarian Princes-Pleasure felt by the Ro-
man People on the Recal ofBathyllulf--Contest ofBathyllus
and Hylas-Anecdote. of John Kemble-Pantomime in
Italy-Acting of Portraits and historical Pictures in Italy
-Tbe Harlot's Progress represented as a Pantomime-
War Dnncea of the American Indiana 248
CHAPTER XVII.
XY!TERY or TilE X.lN IN THY. IRON XUK.
The Man with the Iron Mask proved to be Matthioli-Who
Matthioli was-He is bribed by Louis XIV. to obtain the
Surrender of Casale-He violates his Engagement with the
French Monarch-Louis resolves to take Vengeance on him
CONTENTS. xiii
PAGK
-Matthioli is lured into the Handiof the French Agents--
He is made Prisoner--Instructions given by Louis, relative
to the Treatment of thePrisoner-Matthioli is compelled to
wear a Mask-A mad Jacobin Monk is confined with him-
He is removed to Exilles-Again removed to the Island of
St. Margaret--Manner in which be travelled-Anecdotes
respecting him-He is again removed to the Bastile-
His death-Precautions taken after his Death to preserve
Secrecy . • 254
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE BOUTII SE.l BUBBLE.
General Infatuation with respect to t!l_e South Sea Bubble-
Literary Men caught the Infection-Gay, the Poet, loses all
his Property-Chandler is ruined, and forced to become a
Bookseller-Origin of the South Sea Scheme-The House
of Lords is hostile to it-Difference of the South Sea and
Mississippi Scheme&--Lying Reports spread by Sir John
Blunt, to raise the Price of Stock-Consequence of them
-Change-alley ia crowded by all Classes-Numerous
Bubbles-Ludicrous Impudence of solbe of them-Down-
fall of the South Sea Scheme-Escape of Knight, the
Treasurer-Bribes to Members of the Administration, &c.
-Parliamentary Measures against the Guilty-The Bub-
hies put down by Proclamation-Sir R. ijteele"s Mul-
tiplication Table-Speculatioua in 1825 • 261
CHAPTER XIX.
ATTEMPT TO STI:.lL THE REGALIA FROK TRE TOWER.
·Fint Opening of the Regalia to public Inspection-Edwards
appointed Keeper-Plan formed by Blood to steal the Re-
galia-He visits the Tower with his pretended Wife-
Means by which be contrived to become intimate with Ed-
wards-His Ammgementa for carrying hia Scheme into
Execution-He knocks <lown Edwards, and obtainsPosaes-
llion of·tbe Jewels-Fortunate Chance by which his Scheme
was frustrnted-He io taken-Charles II. is present at his
Examination-Blood contrives to obtain a Pardon, nod the
Gift of an Estate from the King • 'l.\'ll>
xiv CONTENTS,
CHAPTER XX.
l'AMPYlUSII.
.Horrible nature of the Superstition of Vampyrism-Persons
attacked by Vampyrcs become Vampyres themselvee--Signs
by which a Yampyre waa known-Origin of one of tbe
signs--Effect attributed to Excommunication in the Greek
church-Story of an excommunicated Greek-Calmet'a
theory of the origin of the Superstition respt'('ting Yampyres
-St. Stanisla~--Philinnium-The Strygis supposed to
have given the idea of the Yampyre--Capitulary of Char-
lemagne--Remedy against attacks from the Demon-
Anecdote of an impudent Vampyre-Story of a Vampyre
at Mycon<"-Prevalencc of Vampyrism in ·the north of
PAQJ:
Europe--,Vo.lachian mode of detecting Vampyrea. , 273
CHAPTER XXI.
J'UGGLING.
Feats of Jugg)p,rs formerly attributed to ·\\itchcraft-Extrsct
from A<ly's Candle in the Dark-Anglo-Saxon Gleemen--
Norman Jugglers or Tregetours--Chauce•·'a Deacription of
the Wonders·perfol'med by them-Meant probably employed
by them-Recipe for making the Appearance of a Flood-
Jugglers fashionable in the Reign of Cbarlea 11.-Evelyn'a
Account ofa Fire-eater-Katterfelto-Superiolity ofAsiatic
and Egyptian pretenders to magical Skili-Mandeville'a
Account of Juggling at the Court of the Great Khan--Ex-
traordinary Feats witnessed by the Rmperor Jehanguire--
lbn Batuta's Account of Hindustanee Jugglera-Account of
a Bramin who ent upon the Air-Egyptian Jugglera--Mr.
Lane's Account of the Performance of one of them-Ano-
ther fails in satisfying Captain Scott 280
CHAPTER XXIL
PltOIIIGU'.8.
Hold taken on the pnblic Mind by Prodigies...-Dutch Boy
mth Hebrew Words on the Iris of each Eye-Boy with
th11 word N11poleon in the Eye-Child mth a Golden
Tooth- Speculations on the Subject-Superstition re-
specting changelingChildren in the Isle ofMan--Waldron'•
CONTENTS. XV
P.&.GB
Description of a Changeliag-Cues of exhnordinnry Sleep.
e!'I--The Seven Sleepen of Ephesu~Men supposed, in
the northern Regions, to be fro7.en ditring the Winter, and
afterwards thawed into Life ngain-Dr. Oliver's Caee of a
Sleeper near Bath-Dr. Cheyne's Acc:ount of Colonel
Townshend's power of voluntarily suspending Animation-
Man buried alive for a Month at Jaisulmer-The Manner
of his BuriiLl, and his Pt'llparation for it , 290
CHAPTER XXIII.
BOTANICAL SUPERSTITIONS .lND DELtJSIOlfl.
Botanical Absurt\ities numerous--Shepherds study the Nature
of Plants--The doctrine of Signature! deaeribed-Suppoeed
Qualities ofPlanta, according to that Doctrine-Maidenhair,
Quinces, Balm, Woodsorrel, Walnut--The Shamrock an
Emblem of the Trinity-Method of gathering and di~ng
up Plant~Veneration in which tho Misletoe was held-
Fern-seed rendered the Bet<rer invisible-The Enchanter's
Nightshade-The Mandrake-Mode of obtaining it-The
Mandrake mentioned in Genesi~Pliny's Mention of it--
The Root counterfeited by means of the Briony Root--Ita
soporific Virtue~The Tartarian Lamb, or Barometz, de-
scribed-Poetical .Descriptions of it by De ]a Croix and
Darwin-Holy Tree~Early.budding Oaks in the New
Forest.--Glutonb!try Thorn-Miraculous WILlnut Tree at
Glaotonhury-Early Blackthorn at Quninton-Tite Groan-
ing Tt'll6 at Badesly-Hazel need for the Divining Rod-
Vindication of the Beliefin the Divining Rod-Various Su-
pentitiona respecting Trees and Plant~The Peridexion•. 299
CHAPTF.R XXIV.
THE DEI.U810NS Or .lLCBEIIY.
Origin of Alchemy-Arguments for Trnnsmutation-Golden
Age of Alchemy-AII:hemists in the 13th century-Medals
metaphorically described--Jargon of Dr. Dee-The Green
Lion-Roger Bacon-Invention of Gunpowder-Imprison-
mentof Alchemiat~Edictof HenryVI-Pope John XXII
Pupe Sixtua V-Alchemy applied to Medicin-.P&l'&Celsua
-Evelyn's hesitation about Alchemy-Narmtive of Hel-•
vetiu~Philadepton Alchemy-Roeicruciao~AVlsion-
Haydon's description of Roaicrucian~Dr. Pricc--Mr.
Woulfe-Mr. Kellerman • ~"\A
xvi CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XXV.
A.STROLOGV.
Suppposed Origin of Astrology-Butler on tho Transmission
of Aetrological Knowledge-Remarks oil Astrology by
Hervoy-Petrarch'a Opinion of Astrology-Catherine of
Medicis-Caating of Nativities in England-Moore's Alma..
nack-Writers for. and against Atrology-Horoscope of
Prince Frederick ot Denmark-Astrologers contributed
sometimes to realize their own Prodictions-Caracalla.--
Mr. Turner-Woman who Foretold, from a Portrait, the
time when tl1o Original would die---Stiff the Fortune Teller
and his foolish Pupils-Expulsion of the Cholera from
PAGF.
Jaypore-Cingnleso Astrological l111tructions • 331
CHAPTER XXVI.
MBDICAL DELUSIONS AND PKAUDS.
State of Medicine in remote Ages-Animals Teachers ofMedi·
cine-Gymnastic Medicine--Cato'e Cure for a Fracture-
Dearness of Ancient Medicines and Medical Books-Ab-
surdity of tho Ancient Materia Modica: Gold, Bezoar,
Mummy-Prescription for a Quartan-Amulets-Virtues
of Gems-Corals-Charms-Charm for Sore Eyes-Medi-
cine connected with Astrology-Cure by Sympathy-Sir
Kenelm Digby-The real Cauoe of the Cure--The Vulne.
rary Powder, &c.-The Royal Toucb.--Evelyn's Descrip-
tion of the Ceremony-Valentine Greatrakes-Morley'~
Cure for Scrofula.--Inoculation-Vaccination-Dr. Jenner
-Animall'tlagnetism-M. ·Loewe's Account of it-Mes..
mer, and his Feats--Manner of Magnetizing-Report of a
Commission on the Subject-Metallic Tractors-Baron
Silfverkielm and the Souls in white robes-Mr. Louther-
hourg-Empirics--Uroscopy-Mayel'5back-Le Febre-
Rcmedies for the Stone-The Anodyne Necklace-The
Univenal Medicine-Conclusion 342
SKETCHES
OJ'
IMPOSTURE, DECEPTION,
AND
CREDULITY.
CHAPTER I.
IKTkODDCTOilY UIUUS.
Effects of Incredulity and Credulity-Knowledge supposed to be
Remembrance-Purpoee of this Volume-Progresa of rational
Belief-Resemblance of Error to Truth-Contagions Nature of
Excitement--Improved State of the Human Mind in Modem
Times.
INcREDULITY has been said, by Aristotle, to be
the foundation of all wisdom. The truth of this as-
sertion might safely .be disputed ; but, l>n the other
hand, to say that credulity is the foundation of all
folly, is an assertion more consonant to experience,
and may be more readily admitted: and the con-
templation of this subject forms a curious chapter in
the history of the human mind. .
A certain extent of credulity, or, more properly,
· belief, may, indeed, be considered as absolutely neces-
sary to the well-being of social communities ; for
universal scepticism would be universal distrust. Nor
could knowledge ever have arrived at its present
amazing height, had every intermediate step in the
B
2 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
ladder of science, from profound ignorance and slavery
of intellect, been disputed with bigoted incredulity.
It has been said, that all knowledge is remem-
brance, and all ignorance forgetfulness,-alluding to
the universal knowledge which, in the opinion of the
schoolmen, our first father, Adam, possessed before
the fall,-and that the subsequent invention of arts
and sciences was only a partial recovery or recollec-
tion, as it were, of what had been originally well
known. The undefined aspirations of many minds,
to seek for what is distant and least understood, in
preference to that near at hand and more in unison
with our general state of knowledge, seem to favour
this idea.
It will be the endeavour of the following pages to.
show that the credulity of the many-in some cases
synonymous with the foolish-has been, from the be-
ginning, most readily imposed upon by the clever and
designing few. It is a curious task to investigate the
gradual development of rational belief, as exhibited in
the proportionate disbeliefand exposure ofthose things
which, in earlier ages, were considered points of faith,
and to doubt which was a dangerous heresy; and
how, at first, the arts and sciences were weighed down,
and the advantages to be derived from them neu-
tralised, by the fallacies of misconception or fanaticism.
We are, in spite of ourselves, the creatures of imagi-
nation, and the victims of prejudice, which has been
justly called the wrong bias of the soul, that effec-
tually keeps it from coming near the path of truth; a
task the more difficult to accomplish, since error often
bears so near a resemblance to it. Error, indeed,
always borrows something of truth, to make her more
acceptable to the world, sel<l_om appearing in her
native deformity ; and the subtilty of grand deceivers
D.ECBPTION, AND CREDULI'IY. 3
bas always been shown in grafting their greatest
errors on some material truths, and with such dex-
terity, that Ithuriel's spear alone, whose touch
" n.o lhlsehood can endure/'
would have power to reveal them.
Many, and even contradictory, causes might be as-
signed for the constant disposition towards credulity ;
the mind is prone to believe that for which it most
anxiously wishes; difficulties vanish in desire, which
thus becomes frequently the main cause of success.
Thus, when Prince Henry, believing his father dead,
had taken the crown from his pillow, the King in re-
proach said to him,* ·
"Thy wish wa1 fllther, Harry, to that thought."
Belief is often granted on trust to such things as
are above common comprehension, by some, who
would thus flatter themselves with a superiority of
judgment; on the other band, what all around put
faith in the remaining few will, from that circum-
stance, easily believe. This is seen in times of popu-
lar excitement, when an assertion, quite at variance
with common sense or experience, will run like a
wild-fire through a city, and be productive of most
serious results. It would appear that this springs
from· that inherent power of imitation, which is sin-
gularly exemplified even in particular kinds of dis-
ease,-comitial, as they were called by the Romans,
from their frequent occurrence in assemblies of the
people,-and, more fatally, when it impels us to "fol-.
low a multitude to do evil:'
• Second Part of Kin.g Henry IV.
B2
4 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
After a long and dreary period of ignorance, the
nations of Europe began to arouse themselves from
the lethargy in which they had been plunged: rt~­
ligious enthusiasm then awakened the ardour of
heroi8m, and the wild but fascinating spirit ofchivalry
-whose actions were the offspring of disinterested
valour, that looked for no reward but the smile of
favouring beauty or grateful tear of redressed mis-
fortune,-taught the world, tltat humanity and be-
nevolence were no less meritorious than undaunted
courage and athletic strength.
Knowledge, however, advanced with slow and
timid steps from the cells of the monks, in which
she had been obliged to conceal herself, whilst her
rival, ignorance, had been exalted to palaces and
thrones. From the period which succeeded that twi-
light of the Goths and Vandals, when all the useful
arts were obscured and concealed by indolent indiffer-
ence, we shall find that each succeeding age happily
contributed to enlighten the world by the revival and
gradual improvement of the arts and sciences ; a cor-
responding elevation in the, general sagacity of the
human mind was the natural consequence : this can
readily be shown by the proportionate decrease of the
numerous methods by which specious impostors lived
upon the credulity of others.
Few; it is to be hoped, in the present day seek
consolation for disappointment in the mysteries of
astrological judgments, or attribute their ill success in
life to an evil conjunction of the stars, as revealed by
the deluding horoscope of a caster of nativities.
That age has at length passed away, when the
search after the philosopher's stone, or the universal
solvent, terminated a life of_ incredible toil and hope-
less expectation, in poverty and contempt. But there
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 5
are still many, who neglect the experience of the past,
and, anxious to know· their future fate, seek it in the
fortune-teller's cards; or, unhappily, a prey to some of
those ills that flesh is heir to, would rather seek to
expedite their cure by some specious but empirical
experiment, than wait for the slower but surer results
of time and experience.
·CHAPTER IL
ON .&NCRNT Oa.&CLD, &c.
Remote Origin of Oracles-Influence of Oracles-Opinions re:
speeting them-Cause of the Cessation of Oraclea-Supentition
early ayatematized in Egypt-Bc:eotia early famoua for Oracl-
Origin of the Oracle of Dodona-Amhiguity of Oracular Re-
sponses-Stratagem of a Peasant-Oracles disbelieved by An-
cient Philosophers-Cyrus and the Idol Bel-Source of Fire-
Wonbipping-V~etory of Canopus over FiN-The Sphinx-
Sounds heard from it--Supposed Cause of them-Mysteriou1
Souada at Nakoua-Frauds of the Prieata of Serapia-The
Statue of Memnon-Oracle of Delphi-Ita Origin-Changes
which it underwent-The Pytbon818-Danger attendant on her.
Oftic»-Tricko played byHeathenPrieata-Orlginofthe Gordian
Knot-The Knot is cut by Alennder-Ambroaian, Logan or
Rocking Stonea-Repreaentationa of them OD Ancient Coins-
Pliny'• Det~eription of a Logan Stone in Aoia-Stonea at Sitney,
in Cornwall, and at Caatle.Treryn-Thelatter is overthrown, and
replaced-Logan Stonei are Druidical Monuments.
THE knowledge of the origin of the ancient oracles
isloat in the distance of time; yet it·seems reasonable
to suppose, that traditionary accounts and CQnfused
recollections of the revelations graciously vouchsafed
to Noah, to Abraham, and the Patriarchs, more ea•
pacially l\foses, may have been the. foundation of
these oracles, which were venerated in ancient times;
and established in temples, which were, in aome in-
6 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
stances, supposed to be even the abode of the gods
themselves: thus, Apollo was supposed to take up_
his occasional residence at Delphos, Diana at Eph~
sus, and Minerva at Athens.
The manner of prophecy· was various, but that em-
ployed byoracles enjoyed the greatest repute ; because
they were believed to proceed, in a most especial man-
ner, from the gods themselves. Every thing of es-
sential consequence being, therefore, referred to them
by the heads of states, Oracles obtained a powerful
influence over the minds of the people ; and this
popular credulity offered tempting opportunities to
the priests for carrying on very lucrative impostures,
nor did they disdain or neglect to take advantage of
those opportunities. Added t'o this, the different
functions of the .gods, and the different and often op-
posite parts which they were made to take in human
affairs by the priesta and poets, were plentiful sources
of superstitious rites, and therefore of emolument to
those who, in consequence either of office or pre-
tension, were supposed to have immediate communi-
cations with the deity in whose temples they pre-
sided.
Much has been written on this subject; and some
have even gone so far as to suppose that Divine per-
mission was granted to certain demons, or evil spirits,
to inhabit pagan shrines, and thence, by ambiguous
answers, to deceive, and often to punish, those who
sought by their influence to read the forbidden volume
of futurity.
This doctrine was strenuously opposed by Van
Dale ; and M<2bius (of Leipsic), although opposed
to Van Dale's opinion, allows that oracles did not
cease to grant responses t'mmetliately at the coming
of Christ ; and this has beeB considered a sufficient
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 7
proof as well as argument, that demons did not deliver
oracular responses ; but that those responses were
impostures and contrivances of the priests themselves.
The true cause of the cessation of oracular pro-
phecy, however, appears to be, that the minds of men
became enlightened by the wide spreading of the
Christian faith ; and by the circumstance, that their
superstition was compromised by the metamorphoses
of their favourite heroes and deities into saints and
martyrs. As an instance of which, it will hereafter
be shown, that the statues of the ancient gods, even
to this day, are allowed to stand and hold places in
the churches and cathedrals ofmany catholic countries.
Those, who argue that oracles cewed immediately
at the coming of Christ, relate, in confirmation of
their opinion, that Augustus having grown old, be-
came desirous of choosing a successor, and went, in
consequence, to consult the oracle at Delphos. No
answer was given~ at first, to his enquiry, though he
llad spared no expense to conciliate the oracle. At
last, however, the priestess is reported to hav.e said,
"the Hebrew Infant, to whom all gods render obe-
dience, chases me hence ; He sends me to the lower
regions; therefore depart this temple, without speak·
ing more."
Superstition was formed into a system in Egypt at
an age prior to our first accounts of that country.
Vast temples were built, and innumerable ceremonies
eatablished; the same body, forming the hereditary
priesthood and the nobility of the nation, directed
with a high hand the belief and consciences of the
people ; and prophecy was not only among their pre-
tensions, but perhapa the most indispensable part of
their office.
B<Botia was also a country famous for the number
8 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
of its oracles, and from its localities was well sui~d
for such impostures, being mountainous and full of
caverns, by means of which sounds and echoes, appa-_
rently mysterious, could be easily multiplied to excite
the astonishment and terror of the supplicants.
Herodotus informs us, that one of the first oracles
in Greece was imported from the Egyptian Thebes.
It happened, says Mr. Mitford, in his History of
Greece, that the master of a Phenician vessel carried
off' a woman, an attendant of the temple of Jupiter, at
Thebes on the Nile, and sold her in Thesprotia, a
mountainous tract in the north-western part of Epirua;
bordering on the Illyrian hordes. Reduced thus un-
happily to slavery among barbarians, the woman,
however, soon became sensible ofthe superiority which
her education in a more civilised country gave her
over them ; and she conceived hopes of mending her
condition, by practising upon their ignorance. what
she had acquired of those arts which able hands im-
posed upon a more enlightened people. She gave
out that she possessed all the powers of prophecy to
which the Egyptian priests.pretended ; that she could
discover present secrets, and foretel future events.
Her pretensions excited curiosity, and brought
numbers to consult her. She chose her station under
the shade of a spreading oak, where, in the name of
the god Jupiter, she delivered answers to her ignorant
inquirers ; and shortly her reputation as a prophetess
extended as far as the people of the country them-
selves communicated.
. These simple circumstances of her story were after-
-wards, according to the genius of those ages, turned
into a fable, which was commonly told, in the time
of Herodotus, by the Dodonman priests. A black
pigeon, they said, flew .from Thebes in Sgypt to
DECEPTION, AND CRJ:DUL"ITY, 9
Dodona, and, perching upon an oak, proclaimed with
human voice, " That an oracle of Jupiter should be
established there." Concluding that a divinity spoke
through the agency of the pigeon, the Dodonl9alls
obeyed the mandate, and the oracle was established.
The historian accounts for the fiction thus : the woman
on her arrival speaking in a foreign dialect, the Dodo·
niBIIDII laid she spoke like a pigeon ; but afterward!!,
when abe had acquired the Grecian speech and accent,
they said the pigeon spoke with a human voice.
The trade of prophecy being both easy and lucra-
tive, the office of the prophetess was readily supplied
both with associates and successors. A temple for
the deity and habitations for his ministers were built ;
and thus, according to the evidently honest, and appa·
rently well-founded and judicious, account of Hero-
dotus, arose the oracle of Jupiter at Dodona, the very
place where tradition, still remaining to the days of
that writer, testified that sacrifices had formerly been
performed only to the nameless god.
The responses of the oracles, though given with
some appearance of probability, were for the most
part ambiguous and doubtful ; but it must be acknow-
ledged that the priests were very clever persons, since,
while they satisfied for the time the wishes of others,
they were 110 well able to conceal tl!eir own knavery.
A fellow, it ia said, 1rilliug to try the troth ofApollo's
oracle, asked what it was he held in his hand-hold-
ing at the time a sparrow under his cloak-and
·whether it was dead or alive-intending to kill or
preserve it, contrary to what the oracle should ans11'er--
but it replied, that it was in his own choice whether
that which he held should live or die.
Many of the sages and other great men evidently
paid no regard, or real veneration, to the oracles;
}0 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
beyond what policy dictated to preserve their influence
over others.
The researches of modem antiquaries and travellers
have discovered the machinery of many artifices of
the priests of the now deserted fanes, which sufficiently
account for the apparent miracles exhibited to the
eye of ignorance. There remain many instances of
thia kind to show how general this ayatem of impos-
ture has been in all ages ; and, as may be supposed,
the priest& did not fail to exact a liberal payment in
advance.
Cyrus,--according to the apocryphal tradition,-a
devout worshipper of the idol Bel, was convinced by
the prophet Daniel of the imposture of this supposed
mighty and living god, who was thought to consume
every day twelve measures of fine flour, forty sheep,
and six vessels of wine, which were placed as an offer-
ing on the altar. Theae gifts being presented as
usual, Daniel commanded ashes to be strewed on the
floor of the temple, round the altar on which the otfer-
inga were placed ; and the door of the temple to be
sealed in the presence of the king. Cyrus returned
on the following day, and aeeing the altar cleared of
what was placed thereon, cried out " Great art thou,
0 Bel, and in thee is no deceitI" but Daniel point-
ing to the floor, the king continues, " I see the foot-
steps of wo1nen and children I" The private door at
the back of the altar leading to the dwellinga of the ·
priests was then discovered; their imposture clearly
proved, they were all slain, and the temple was de-
stroyed.
The circumstance of fire being so frequently an
object of veneration amongat pagans, is thought to
have arisen thWI : the sun, as a source of light and
heat, was the most evident and most benignant of ~
DBCBPTION, AND CIIBDULITY. 11
natural agents; and was worshipped, aecordingly, as
a first cause, rather than as an effect ; as however it
was occasionally absent, it was typified by fire, which
had the greatest analogy to it.
This element, first respected only as the representa-
tive ofthe sun, in time became itself theobject of ado-
ration among the Chaldeans; and Eusebius relates the
following circi1Dl8tance with respect to it-. The Chal-
deans asserted that their god was the strongest JDd
most powerful of all gods ; since they had not met
with any one that could resist his force ; so that when-
ever they happened to seize upon any deities, which
were worshipped by other nations, they immediately
threw them into the fire, which never failed of con-
suming them to ashes, and thus the god of the Cbal-
deans came to be publicly looked upon as the con·
queror of all other gods : at length a priest of Canopus,
one of the Egyptian gods, found out the means to de-
stroy the great reputation which fire had acquired.
He caused to be formed an idol of a very porous
earth, with which pots were commonly made to
purify the water of the Nile ; the belly of this statue,
which was very capacious, was filled with water, the
priest having fi.-.t made a great many little holes and
stopped them with wax. He then challenged the fire
of the Cbaldeans to dispute with his god Canopus.
The Chaldeans immediately prepared one, and the
Egyptian priest set his statue on it ; no sooner did the
fire reach the wu than it dissolved, the boles were
opened, the water passed through, and the fire was
extinguished. Upon this a report was soon spread,
that the god Canopus bad conquered and destroyed
the god of the Cbaldeans. As a memorial of their
victory, the Egyptians always afterwards made their
idols with very large bellies.
I
12 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE;.
The celebrated sphinx, still more interesting as a
wonderful production of art, is said to have been
made by aa Egyptian king, in memory of Rhodope of
Cerinth, with whom he was passionately in love: yet
it was subsequently considered as an oracle, which, if
consul~ at the rising of the sun, gave prophetic
answers. There has lately been discovered a large
hole in the head ; in which the priests are supposed
to have concealed themselves, for the purpose of de-
luding the people. At sunrise music was said to be
heard. The latter might even occur from natural
causes. Messieurs Jom&rd, Jollois, and Devilliers
beard at sunrise, in a monument of granite, placed in
the centre of that spot on which the palace of Karnak
stood, a noise resembling that of a string breaking;
this was found on attentive examination to proceed
from a natural phenomenon, occurring near the si-
tuation of the sphinx. or this circumstance the in~...
genuity of the priests would no doubt be sure to avail
themselves ; and this may also account for the hour
of sunrise being chosen for the oracular responses.
To confirm the probability of this solution of the
mystery, it may be mentioned that Baron Humboldt
was informed, by most credible witnesses, that subter-
ranean sounds, like those of an organ, are heard to-
wards sunrise by those who sleep upon the granite
rocks on the banks of the Oroonoko. Those sounds
be philosophically supposes may arise from the dif-
ference of temperature between the external air and
that contained in the narrow and deep crevices of the
rocks ; the air issuing from which may be modified by
its impulse against the elastic films of mica projecting
into the crevices; producing, in fact, a natural and
gigantic eiilina, the simple but beautiful· arrangement
of musical chords which is now so commonly beard.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. - l3
A somewhat similar phenomenon, which gives rise
to an Arab supenltition, occurs about three leagues
from Tor, on the Red Sea. The spot, which is half
a mile from the sea, bears the name of Nakous, or the
Bell. It is about three hundred feet high, and eighty
feet wide, presents a steep declivity to the sea, and is
·covered by sand, and surrounded by low rocks, in the
form of an amphitheatre. The sounds which it
emits are not periodical, but are heard at all hours
and at all seasons. The place was twice visited
by Mr. Gray. On the first visit, after waiting a quar-
ter of an hour, he heard a low continuous murmuring
sound beneath his feet, which, as it increased in loud-
ness, gradually changed into pulsations, resemblingthe
ticking of a clock. In five minutes more it became
so powerful as to resemble the striking of a clock, and,
·by its vibrations, to detach the sand from the surface.
When be returned, on the following day, he heard the
sound still louder than before. Both titnes the air
was calm, and the sky serene ; so that the external air
could have had no share in producing the phenomenon ;
nor could he find any crevice by which it could pene-
trate. The noise is affirmed by the people of Tor to
- frighten and render furious the camels that bear it ;
and the Arabs of the desert poetically ascribe it to the
bell of a convent of monks, which convent they believe
to have been miraculously preserved under· ground.
Seetzen, another visitor, attributes the phenomenon to
the rolling down of the sand.
Rufinus informs us that, when it was destroyed by
order of Theodosius, the temple of Serapis at Alex-
andria was found to be full of secret passages, and
machines, contrived to aid the impostures of ·the.
priests ; among other things, on the eastern side of
the temple, was a little window, through which, on a
certain day of the year, the sunbeams entering fell on
14 SKETCHES 01!' IMPOSTURE,
the mouth of the statue of Memnon. At the same
moment an iron image of the sun was brought in,
which, being attracted by a large loadstone fixed in
the ceiling, ascended up to the image. The priests then
cried out, that the sun saluted their god.
This Memnon was said to be the sun of Tithonus
and Aurora, and a statue of him in black marble was
set up at Thebes. It is also related that the mouth
of the statue, when first touched by the rays of the
rising sun, sent forth a sweet and harmonious sound,
as though it rejoiced when its mother Aurora ap-
peared; but, at the setting of the sun, it sent forth a
low melancholy tone, as if lamenting its mother's de·
parture.
On the left leg of one of the colossal figures
called Memnon are engraved the names of many cele-
brated personages,who have borne witness, at different
tiiJles, of their having heard the musical tones which
proceeded from the statue on the rising and setting of
the sun. Strabo was an ear-witness to the fact that
an articulate sound was heard, but doubted whether
it came from the statue.
'fbe oracle which held the g_~atest reputation, and
extended it over the world, was Delphi ; yet upon
what slight grounds were the minds of people led cap-
tive by the love of the marvellous and a proneness to
superstition I Of this celebrated place so many fables
are related, some of them referring to times long
before any authentic account of the existence of such
an oracle, that it is difficult to decide upon the real
period.;
On the southern side of Mount Parnassus, within
the western border of Phocis, against Locris, and at
no great distance from the sea-port towns of Crissa
and Cirrha, the mountain-crags form a natural amphi-
theatre, difficult of access, in the mi~t of which a
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 15
deep cavern discharged from a narrow orifice a vapour
powerfully affecting the brain of those· who came
within its influence. This was first brought into
public notice lly a goatherd, whose goats, browsing on
the brink, were thrown into singular convulsions ;
upon which the man, going to the spot, and en-
deavouring to look into the chasm, became himself
agitated. like one frantic. These extraordinary cir-
cumstances were communicated through the neigh-
bourhood ; and the superstitious ignorance of the
age immediately attributed them to a deity residing in
the place. Frenzy of every kind among the Greeks,
even in more enlightened times, was supposed to be
the etfect of divine inspiration ; and the incoherent
speeches of the frantic were regarded as prophetical.
This spot, formerly visited only by goats, now became
an object of extensive curiosity. It was said to be
the oracle of the goddess Earth. The rude inha·
bitants from all the neighbouring parts resorted to it,
for information concerning futurity ; to obtain which
any one of them inhaled the vapour, and whatever he
uttered in the ensuing intoxication passed for prophecy.
This was found dangerous, however, as many, be-
coming giddy, fell into the cavern and were lost; and
in an assembly it was agreed that•one person should
alone receive the inspiration, and render the responses
of the divinity. A virgin was preferred for the sacred
office, and a frame prepared, resting on three feet,
whence it was called tripod. The place bore the
name of Pytho, and thence the title of.Pythoness, or
Pythia, became attai:h~d to the prophetess. By de-
gree~t a rude temple was built over the cavern, priests
were appointed, ceremonies were prescribed, and sa-
crifices were performed. A revenue was necessary.
All who would consult the oracle henceforward must
.
' '~
16 SltBTCHES o:r IMPOSTOR:£,
come with offerings in their hands. The profits pro-
duced by the prophecies of the goddess.Earth begin-
ning to fail, the priests asserted that the god Neptune
was associated with her in the oracle. The goddess
Themis was then reported to have succeeded mother
~h: Still new incentives to public credulitl and
cunos1ty became necessary~ Apollo was a de1ty of
great .reputation in the islands, and in Asia Minor,
but had at that time little fame on the cont.inent of
Greece. At this period, a vessel from Crete came to
Crissa, and the crew landing proceeded up Mount
Parnassus to Delphi. It was reported that the vessel
and crew,by a preternatural power,were impelledto the
port, accompanied by a dolphin of uncommon m8jpli-
tude, who discovered himself to be Apollo, and who
ordered the crew to follow him to Delphi and become
his ministers. Thus the oracle recovered and in-
creased its reputation. Delphi had the advantage of
being near the centre of Greece, and W&$ reported to
be the centre of the earth ; miracles were invented to
prove so important a circumstance, and the navel of
the earth was among the titles which it acquired.
Afterwards vanity came in aid of superstition, in
bringing riches to the temple : the names of those
who made considerable presents were always regis-
tered, and exhibited in honour of the donors. .
The Pythoness was chosen from among.mountain
cottagers, the most unacquainted with mankind that
could be found. It was required that she should-be a
virgin, and originally taken when very young; andonce
appoidted, she was never to quit the temple. But,
unfortunately, it happened that one Pythoness made
her escape; her singular beauty enamoured a young
Thessalian, who succeeded in the hazardous attempt
to carry her oft'. It was a~rwards decreed that no
Dli:CEPT'ION, AND CREDULITY. 17
Pythoness should be appointed under fifty years of
age.
This office appears not to have been very desirable.
Either the emanation from the cavern, or some art of
the managers, threw her into real convulsions. Priests,
entitled prophets, led her to the. sacred tripod, fo'l'ce·
being often necessary for the purpose, and held .her on
it, till her frenzy rose to whatever pitch was in their
judgment most fit for the occasion. Some of the Py-
thonesses are said to have expired almost immediately
after quitting the tripod, and even on it. The broken
accents which the wretch uttered in her agony were
collected and arranged by the prophets, and then pro-
mulgated as the answer of the god. Till a late period,
they were always in verse. The priests had it always
in their power to deny answers, delay them, or render
them dubious or unintelligible, as they judged most
advantageous for the credit of the oracle. But if
princes or great men applied in a proper manner for
the 11anction of the god to any undertaking, they sel-
dom failed to receive it in direct terms, provided the
reputation of the oracle for truth was not liable to im-
mediate danger from the event. .
Theophrastus, bishop of Alexandria, showed the
inhabitants of that town the hollow statue into which
the former priests of the pagan oracle had privately
crept whilst delivering their responses ; and a modern
traveller corroborates this fact, by a similar discovery
made among the excavations at Pompeii. " In the
temple of Isis," says Dr. J. Johnson, " we see the
identical spot where the priests concealed themselves,
whilst delivering the oracles that were supposed to
proceed from the mouth of the goddess. There were
found the bones of the victims sacrificed, and in the
refectory of the abstemious priests were discovered
c
j
IS BX:ETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
the remains of bam, fowls, eggs, fish, and bottles of
wine. These jolly friars were carousing most merrily,
and no doubt laughing heartily at the credulity of
mankind, when Vesuvius poured out a libation on
their heads which put an end to their mirth•."
"To cut the Gordian knot" has long been pro·
verbial for an independent and unexpected way of
overcoming difficulties, however great. It took its rise
from a circumstance related with some variations by
several ancient authors, and with great simplicity by
Arrian ; it is the more a curiosity as coming from a
man of his eminence in his enlightened age.
At a remote period, says he, a Phrygian yeoman,
named Gordius, was holding his own plough on his
own land, when an eagle perched on the yoke and re-
mained whilst he continued his work. Wondering at
a matter so apparently preternatural, he deemed it ex- ·
pedient to consult some person among those who bad
reputation f<>r expounding indications of the divine
will. :In the neighbouring province of Pisidia the
people of Telmissus had wide fame for that skill; it
was 11upposed instinctive and hereditary in men and
women of particular families. Going thither, as he
approached the first village of the Telmissian territory,
he saw a girl drawing water at a spring; and making
some inquiry, whichled to further conversation, he re-
• At the moment of writing this chapter, there is arrived in
• London a specimen of tbJs species of manufacture; it is. a singular
J'elic, consisting of a very elaborate carving in wood of the Cruri-
fixion, and ia a ludicrous evidence of monkish trickery. A hole is
perforated from behind, through which, by tbe application of a
sponge dipped in blood, a 1tream was made to travel to the front,
where it was eeen to diacharge itself from a crevice in the Saviour's
aid~, which st.an~a for the spear-wound, so that tbe figure bad the
appearance of ahedding real blood, and tbe drops so discharged were
sold to the devoteca at an enormous price. _
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 19
lated the phenomenon. It happened that the girl was
of a race of seers; she told him to return immediately
home, and sacrifice to Jupiter the king. Satisfied so
far, he remained anxious about the manner of per-
forming the ceremony, so that it might be certainly
acceptable to the deity; and the result was that he
married the girl, and she accompanied him home.
Nothing important followed till a son of this match,
named Midas, had attained manhood._ The Phrygians
then, distressed by violent civil dissensions, consulted
an oracle for means to .allay them. The answer was,
" t~at a cart would bring them a king to relieve their
troubles." Theassembly was already formed to receive
official communication of the divine will, when Gordius
and Midas arrived in their cart to attend it. Presently
the notion arose and spread, that one of those in that
cart must be the person intended by the oracle. Gor-
dius was then advanced in years~ Midas, who already
had been extensively remarked for superior powers of
both body and mind, was elected king of Phrygia..
Tranquillity ensued among the people ; and the cart,
predesigned l)y heaven to bring a king the author of
so much good, was, with its appendages, dedicated to
the god, and placed in the citadel, where it was care-
fully preserved.
The yoke was fastened with a thong, formed of the
bark of a cornel tree, so artificially that no eye could
discover either end ; and rumour was become popular
of an oracle, which declared that whosoever loosened
that thong would be lord of Asia. The extensive
credit which this rumour bad obtained, and the re-
ported failure of the attempts of many great men,
gave an importance to it. Alexander, in. the progress
of his campaign in Asia, arrived at Gordium, and of
course visited the castle in which was preserved the
c2
20 SltETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
Gordian knot. While, with many around, he was ad~
miring it, the observation occurred that it being his
· purpose to become lord of Asia, he should, for the
sake of popular opinion, have the credit of loosening
the yoke. Some writers have reported that he cut
the knot with his sword; but Aristobulus, who, as one
of his generals, is likely to have been present, related
" that he wrest.ed the pin from the beam, and so, taking
off the yoke, said that was enough for him to be lord
of Asia.
Thunder and lightning on the following night, says
Arrian, confirmed the assertion that Alexander had
effected what the oracle had declared was to be done
only by one who should be lord of Asia. Accord·
ingly on the morrow he performed a magnificent
thanksgiving sacrifice, in acknowledgment of the
favour of the gods, thus promised : a measure as full
of policy as devotion. •
In Cornwall are to be found enormous piles of
stone, which bear the name of Ambrosian, Logan, or
Rocking Stones. Structures of this kind, as they may,
perhaps, reasonably be called, are of very great anti·
quiiy, being represented on medals of Tyre. They
appear to have been composed of cones of rock let
into the ground, with other stones adapted to their
points, and so nicely balan11ed, that the wind could
move them ; and yet so ponderous, that no human
force, unaided by machinery, could displace them.
The figures of Apollo Didymus, on the Syrian coins,
are placed sitting on the point of the cone, on which
the more rude and primitive symbol of the Logan
stone is found poised ; and we are told, that the oracle
of the god near Miletus existed before the emigration
of the Ionian colonies, more than eleven hundred
years before Christ. '
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 21
Pliny, in his second book, relates, that there was
one to be seen at Harpasa in Asia, exactly answering .
the description of those found in Cornwall. "Lay one
finger on it, and it will stir ; but thrust against it with
your whole body, and it will not move." Hephmstion
mentions the Gigonian stone, near the ocean, which
may be moved with the stalk of an asphodel, but
cannot be removed by any force.. Several of these
stones may be seen in the neighbourhood of Helio-
polis, or Baalbeck, in Syria:; 11-nd one in particular has
been seen in motion by the force of the wind alone.
The famous Logan stone, commonly called· Min-
amber, stood in the parish of Sithney, Cornwall. The
top stone was so accurately poised on the one beneath,
that a little child could move it ; and all travellers
went that way to see it; but in Cromwell's time, one
Shrubsoll, Governor of Pendennis, with much ado
caused it to be undermined and thrown down, to the
great grief of the country : thus its wonderful property
of moving so easily to a certain point was destroyed.
-The cause which induced the Governor to over-
throw it appears to have been that the vulgar used
to resort to the place at particular times, and pay the
stone more respect than WI'S thought becoming good
Christians. · ·
A similar destructive act was committed, a few
years since, by one of his majesty's officers, the com-
mander of a revenue cutter. His achievement had,
however, not even the excuse of a mistaken religious
feeling to plead in its behalf ; it seems to Mtve been
prompted merely by the spirit of mischief. Having
landed a part of his crew, he, with infinite labour,
succeeded in overturning the most celebrated Logan
stone in Cornwall. But such was the odium with
which he was visited in consequence of his exploit,
22 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
that he undertook the gigantic task of restoring the
stone to its original situation ; and he was fortunate
or skilful enough to succeed. A description of the
situation and magnitude of the enormous mass which
he had to raise will giye some idea of the diffi-
culty which he bad to encounter. It is situated '' on
a peninsula of granite, jutting out two hundred yar~
into the sea, the isthmus still exhibiting some reinains
of the ancient fortification of Castle Treryn. The
granite which forms this peninsula is split by perpen-
dicular and horizontal fissures into a heap of cubical
or prismatic masses. The whole mass varies in height
fr{)m fifty to a hundred feet ; it presents on almost
every side a perpendicular face to the sea, and is
divided into four summits, on one of which, near the
centre of the promontory, the stone in question lies.
The general figure of. the stone is irregular : its lower
surface is not quite tlat, but swells out into a slight
protuberance, on which the rock is poised. It rests
on a surface so inclined, that it seems as if a small
· alteration in its position would cause it to slide along
the plane into the sea, for it is within two or three
feet of the edge of the precipice. The stone is seven-
. teen feet in length, and above thirty-two in circum-
ference bear the middle, and is estimated to weigh
nearly sixty-six tons. The vibration _is only in one
direction, and that nearly at right angles to the length.
A force of a very few pounds is sufficient to bring it
into a state of vibration; even the wind blowing on its
western~rface, which is exposed, produces this effect
in a sensible degree. The vibration continues a few
seconds." ·
Such immense masses being moved by means so
inadequate must naturally have eonveyed the idea of
epontaneous .motion to ignorant persons, and have
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 23
persuaded them, that they were animated by an ema-
nation from the Deity or Great Spirit, and, as such,
might be consulted as oracles.
" Behold yon huge
And unhewn sphere of J.i.ving adamant,
Which, poised by magi-; :reeta ita central weighl
On yonde-r pointed rock; firm as It eeeme,
Such is ita strange and virtuoua property,
It moves obsequious to the gentlest touch."
It cannot be doubted that those Logan stones are
druidical monuments; but it is not certain what par-
ticular use the priests made of them. Mr. Toland
thinks that the Druids made the people believe, that
they could only be moved miraculously, and by this
pretended miracle they condemned or -acquitted an
accused person. It is likely that some of these stones
were of natural formation, and that the Druids made
and consecrated others; by such pious frauds increasing
their private gain, and establishiilg an ill-grounded
authority by deluding the common people. The
basins cut on the top of these stones, had their part
to act in these juggles ; and the rutBing.nr quiescence
of the water was to declare the wrath or testify the
pleasure of the god consulted, and somehow or other
to confirm the decision of the Druids.
24 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
CHAPTER Ill.
FALSE lii~BJ.\RS, PROPHJI!TH: AND MIIU.CLF.S.
Susceptibility of the Imagination in the East--Mahomet--His Ori-
gin-He assumes the Title of ·the Apostle of God-Opposition
to him-Revelations brought to Him by the Angel Gabriel-His
Flight to Medina-Success ofhis Imposture-Attempt to poison
him-His Death-Tradition respecting his Tomb-Account of
his lntercoune with Heaven-Sabatai Sevi, a false Messiah-Su-
}l!lrstitious Tradition among the Jews-Reports respecting the
Coming of the Messiah-Sabatai pretends to be the Messiah-He
is assisted by Nathan-Follies committed by the Jews-Ho.
nours paid to Sahatai-He embarks for Constantinople-His
Arrest-He embraces Mahometanism to avoid Death.-Rosenfeld,
a German, prqdaims himself the Messiah-His Knavery-He is
whipped and imprisoned-Richard Brothers announces himself
as the revealed Prince and Prophet of the Jews-He dies in
Bedlam-Thomas Muncer andhia Associates--TheirFate-Mat-
thias, John of Leyden, and other Anabaptist Leaders-They are
defeated and executed:.....The French Prophets-Punishment of
them-Miracles at the Grave of the Descon Paris-Horrible
Self-inflictions of the Convulsionaries-The Brothers of Brug-
glen-They are executed-Prophecy of a Lifeguardsman in
London--Joanna Southcott-Her Origin, Progress, and Death-
Folly of her Disciplea-Miracles of Prince Hohenlohe.
THE earlier species of superstitious belief are now
passed away, and the remembrance of them only
serves to adorn poetic fiction. In eastern countries,
where the imagination is more susceptible, men have
yielded a religious faith to one, the rapid extension ot'
whose tenets, though subsequent indeed to. his death,
was as astonishing as the boldness and effrontery of his
attempt; which may be considered without a parallel
in the annals of imposture.
Mahomet, the original contriver and founder of the
false religion so extensively professed in the East, has
always been designated, par ezcellence, "The Im-
postor." He was born at Mecca, in the year of our
. DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 25
Lord five hundred and .se~enty·one, of the tribe of
the Koreshites, the noblest and most powerful in the
oountry. In his youth he was employed by his uncle,
a merchant, as a camel-driver; and, as a term of re·
proach, and proof of the lowness of his origin, his
enemies used to call him "The Camel-driver." When
he was once in the market-place of Bostra with his
camels, it is asserted, that he was recognised by a
learnedmonk, called Bahira, as a prophet; the monk
pretended to know him by a halo of divine light around
his countenance, and be hailed him with joy and
veneration.
In his twenty-fifth. year Mahomet married a rich
widow ; this raised him to aftluence, and be appeared
at that time to have formed the secret plan of obtain-
ing for himself sovereign power. He assumed the
character of superior sanctity, and every morning re-
tired to a secret cave, near Mecca, where be devoted
the day to prayer, abstinence, and holy meditation.
In his fortieth year, he took the title of Apostle of
God, and increased his fame by perseverance, and the
aid of pretended visions. He made at first but few
preselytes ; his enemies, who suspected his designs,
and perhaps foresaw his bold and rapid strides to
power, heaped on him the appellations of impostor,
liar, and magician. But he overcame all opposition
in promulgating his doctrine, chiefly by flattering the
passions and prejudices of his nation. In a climate
exposed to a burning sun, he allured the imagination,
by promising as rewards, in the future state, rivers of
cooling waters, shady retreats, luxurious fruits, and
itnmaculate houris. His system of religion was given
out as the command of God, and he produced occa-
sionally varid\J.s chapters, which had been copied from
Ute archives of Heaven, and brought down to him by
......_
26 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
the Angel Gabriel ; and if difficulties or doubts were
started, they were quickly removed, as this obliging
Angel.brought down fresh· revelations to support his
chuacter for sanctity. When miracles were demanded
of him, in testimony of his divine mission, he said with
an air of authority, that God had sent Moses and
Christ with miracles, and men would not believe ;
therefore, he had sent him in the last place without
them, and to use a sword in their stead. This com-
munication exposed him to some danger, and he was
compelled to fly from Mecca to Medina; from which
period is fixed the Hegira, or flight, at which he
began to propagate his doctrine~ by the sword. His
arms were !IUCCessful. In spite of some checks, he
ultimately overcame or gained over all his foes, and
within ten years after his flight, his authority was re-
cognised throughout the Arabian peninsula. Among
the tribes subjugated by his 11word was the Jewish
tribe of Khaibar. He put to death Kenana, the chief,
who assumed the title of King of the Jews; and after
the victory, he took up his abode in the house of a
Jew, whose son, Marhab, had fallen in the contest.
This circumstance nearly cost him his life. Desirous
to avenge her brother, Zeinab, the sister of Marhab,
put poison in a shoulder of mutton, which was served
up to Mahomet. The prophet was saved by seeing
one of his officers fall, who had begun before him to
eat of the dish. He hastily rejected the morsel which
he had taken into his own mouth ; but so virulent
wail the poison that his health was .severely injured,
and his death is thought to have been hastened by it•.
On being questioned as to the motive which prompted
her, Zeinab boldly replied, cc I wished to discover
whether you are really a prophet, in which case you
could preserve youl'llelf from the poison ;. and, if you
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 27
were not so, I sought to deliver my country fr~m an
impostor and a tyrant." ·
Mahomet died at Medina, and a fabulous tradition
aBBerts that his body, in an iron coffin, was suspended
in the air, through the· agency of two loadstones con-
cealed, one in the roof, and the other beneath the
floor of his mausoleum.
The success of this impostor, during his life, is not
more astonishing than the extent to which his doctrines
have been propagated since his death. The Koran
was compiled subsequent to his decease, from chapters
said to have been brought by the Angel Gabriel from
Heaven. It is compo~d of sublime truths, incredible
fables, and ludicrous ev~nts ; by artful interpolation
he grafted on his theories such parts of the Holy '
Scriptures as suited his purpose, and announced him-
self to be that Comforter which our Saviour had pro-
mised should come after him.
Mahomet was a man of ready wit, and bore all the
affronts of his enemies with concealed resentment.
Many artifices were had recourse to, for the purpose
of delusion ; it is said a bull was taught to bring him
on its horns revelations, as if sent from God ; and he
bred up pigeons to come to his ears, and feign thereby
that the Holy Ghost conversed with him. His inge-
nuity made him turn to his own advantage circum-
stances o~herwise against him. He was troubled with
the falling sickness, and he persuaded his followers
that, during the moments of suspended animation, he
accompanied the Angel Gabriel, in various journeys,
home by the celestial beast Alborak, and that ascend-
ing to the highest heavens, he was permitted to con·
verse familiarly with the Almighty.
His first interview with the angel took place at
night, whell in bed; he heard a knocking at the
28" SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
door, and having opened it, he then saw the Angel
Gabriel, with seventy-nine pair of wings, expanded
from his sides, whiter than snow, and clearer than
crystal, and the celestial beast beside him. This beast
he described as being between an ass and mule, as
white as milk, and of extraordinary swiftness. Ma-
homet was most kindly embraced by the angel, who
told him that he was sent to bring him unto God in
heaven, where he should see strange mysteries, which
were not lawful to be seen by other men, and bid him
get upon the beast ; but the beast having long lain
idle, from the time of Christ till Mahomet, was grown
so rest~ve and skittish, that he would not stand still for
Mahomet to get upon him, till at length he was forced
to bribe him to it, by promising him a place in Para-
dise. The beast carried him to Jerusalem in the
twinkling of an- eye. · The departed saints saluted
them, and they proceeded to the Oratory in the
Temple ; returning from the Temple they found a
ladder of light ready fixed for them, which they imme-
diately ascended, leaving the Alborak there tied to a
rock till their return.
Mahomet is said to have given a dying promise to
return in a thousand years, but that time being already
past, his faithful followers say the period he really
mentioned was two thousand, though, owing to the
weakness of his voice, he could not be distinctly
heard.
A pilgrimage to Mecca is thought, by devout Ma-
hometans, to be the most efficacious means ofprocuring
remission of sins and the enjoyments of Paradise ; and
even the camels• which go on that journey are held
• " The camels which have bad the honour to bear presents to
Mecca or Medina, are not to be treated afterwards as· common
&Dimals. They are considered consecrated to Myomet, which
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 519
eo sacred after their return, that many fanatical Turks,
when they· have seen them, destroy their eyesight by
looking closely on bot bricks, desiring to see nothing
profane after so sacred a spectacle. -
'the early leaning of the Jews towarsd idolatry
and superstition has been recorded in terms that
admit of no dispute, by their own historians. The
same leaning continued to be manifest in them for
many ages. Sandys, in his travels, heard of an
ancient tradition current on the borders of the Red
Sea, that the day on which the Jews celebrate the
passover, loaves of bread, by time converted into
stone, are seen to arise from that sea *; and are sup-
posed to be some of the bread t~e Jews left in their
passage.
They were sold at Grand Cairo, handsomely made
up in the manner ,and shape of the bread, at the time
·1, which he wrote; and this was of itself sufficient to
betray the imposture. ,
The anxiously-expected appearance of their Mes-
exempts them from all labour and service; tbey have cottajjea
built for their abodes, where they live· at ease and receive plenty
of food, and the most careful attention."-Travels of Father
Strope.
• "The rising of dead men's bones every year in Egypt is a
thing superstitiously believed by the Christian worshippers, and by
the priests out of ignorance, or policy. Metrophanes, patriarch of
Alexandria, thought the poBBibility of such an occurrence might be
proved out of Isaiah, c. 66, v. 24, 'and they shall go forth, and
look upon the carcasses of the men that have transgressed against
me.' A Frenchman at Cairo, who had been present at the re-
anrrection of these bones, showed me an arm from thence; the
flesh was shrivelled and dried like the mummies. He observed
the miracle to have been always performed behind /jim, and once
casually looking back, be discovered some bones carried privately
by an Egyptian, under his Test, whence be understood the mystery."
-Saodys' Travele.
-~
30 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
aiah made the Jews very easily imposed upon by
those who for interested motives chose to assume so
sacred a title. Our Saviour predicted th~ coming of
false Christs, and many have since his day appeared,
though perhaps no false prophet in later days has ex-
cited a more general commotion in that nation than
Sabatai Sevi. ·
According to the prediction of several Christian
writers, who commented on the Apocalypse, the year
1666 was to prove one of wonders, and particularly
of blessings to the Jews ; and reports flew from place
to place, of the march of multitudes of people from
unknown parts in the remote deserts of Asia, supposed
to be the ten tribes and a half lost for so many ages,
and also that a ship had arrived in the north of Scot-
land, with sails and cordage of silk, navigated by
mariners who spoke nothing but Hebrew ; with this
motto on their flag, " The twelve tribes of Israel."
These reports, agreeing thus near with former predic-
tions, led the credulous to expect that the year would
produce strange events with reference to the Jewish
nation.
Thus were millions of people possessed, when Sa-
batai Sevi appeared at Smyrna, and proclaimed him-
self to the Jews as their Messiah; declaring- th.e
greatness of his approaching kingdom, and the strong
hand whereby God was about to deliver them from
bondage, and gather them together.
"It was strange," says Mr. Evelyn, "to see how
this fancy took, and how fast the report of Sabatai
and his doctrine flew through those parts of Turkey
the Jews inhabited: they were so deeply possessed of
their new ·kingdom, and their promotion to honour,
that none of them attended to business o( any kind,
except to prepare for a journey to Jerusalem."
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 81
Sabatai was the son of Mordechai Sevi, an inhabit-
ant of Smyrna, who acted as a broker to English
merchants. His son, studying metaphysics, vented a
new doctrine in the law ; and, gaining some disciples,
he attracted sufficient notice to cause his banishment
from the city. During his exile he was twice married,
but soon after each ceremony he obtained a divorce.
At Jerusalem he married a third time. He there-be-
gan to preach a reform in the law, and meeting with
another Jew, named Nathan, he communicated to him
his intention of proclaiming himself the Messiah, so
long expected, and so much desired by the Jews.
Nathan assisted in this deceit, and as, according to
the ancient prophecies, it was necessary Elias should
precede the Messiah, Nathan thought no one so pro-
per as himself to personate that prophet. Nathan,
therefore, as the forerunner of the Messiah, announced
to the Jews what was about to take place, and that
consequently nothing but joy and triumph ought to
dwell in their habitations. This delusion being once
begun, many Jews really believed what they so much
desired; and Nathan took courage to prophesy, that
in one year from the 27th of Kislen (June), theMes-
siah should appear, and take from the Grand Signor
his crown, and lead him in chains like a captive.
Sabatai meanwhile preached at (iaza repentance to
the Jews, and obedience to himself and hi!! doctrine.
These novelties very much affected the Jews ; and
they gave themselves up to prayers, alms, and de-
votion. The rumour flying abroad, letters of con-
gratulation came from all parts to Jerusalem and
Gaza : and, thus encouraged, Sabatai resolved to
travel to Smyrna, and thence to Constantinople, the
capital city, where the principal work was to be per-
formed.
32 SKETCHES OF 'lMPOSTURE,
All was now expectation among the Jews ; no trade
was followed, and every one imagined that daily pro•
visions, riches, and honour, were to descend upon him
miraculously. Many fasted so long that they were
famished to death; others buried themselves in their
gardens up to the neck ; but the most common mor-
tification was to prick their backs and sides with
thorns, and then give themselves thirty-nine lashes.
To avoid the necessity of business, which was even
made a fineable offence, the rich were taxed to sup-
port the poor ; and, lest the Messiah should. accuse
them of neglecting ancient precepts, particularly that
to increase and multiply, they married together
children of ten years and under. Without respect to
richPs or poverty, to the number of six or seven hun-
dred couple were indiscriminately joined: .but on
better and cooler thoughts, after the deceit was .dis-
covered, or expectation grew cold, these children
were divorced or separated by mutual consent. -
At Smyrna, Sabatai was well received by the com-
mon Jews, but not so by the chochams or doctors of
the law, who gave no credence to his pretensions.
Yet Sabatai, bringing testimonials of his sanctity, holy
life, wisdom, and gift of prophecy, so deeply fixed him-
self in the hearts of the generality, that he took cou-
rage to dispute wit~ the grand chocham. Arguments
grew so strong, and language so hot, between the dis-
putants, that the Jews who espoused Sabatai's doctrine
appeared in great numbers before the Cadi- of Smyrna,
in justification of him. Sabatai thus gained ground,
whilst the grand chocham in like proportion lost it, as
well as the affection and .obedience of his people, and
ultimately he was di~placed.
No invitation was now ever made by the Jews, or
marriage ceremony solemnised, where Sabatai was
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 38
not present, accompanied by a multitude or followers ;
and the streets were covered with carpets or fine
cloths for him to tread upon, which the pretended humi-
lity of this Pharisee stooped to turn aside. - Many of
his· followers became prophetic ; and infants, who
could scarcely stammer a syllable to their mothers,
could pronounce and repeat his name. There were
still, however, numbers bold enough to dispute his
mission, and to proclaim him an impostor.
Sahatai then proceeded with great presumption to im
election of princes, who were to govern the Israelites
during their march to the Holy Land. Miracles were
thought necessary for the confirmation of the Jews in
their faith ; and it was pretended that on one occa-
sion a pillar of tire was seen between Sabatai and the
cadi : though but few were said to have seen it, it
speedily became the general belief, and Sabatai re-
turned triumphant to his house, fixed in the hearts of
all Ms people. He then prepared for his journey to
Constantinople, where his great work was to be
accomplished: but, to avoid the confusion of his nu-
merous followers, he went by sea with a small party,
and was detained thirty-nine days by contrary winds.
His followers, having arrived overland before him,
awaited his coming with great anxiety. Having heard
of the disorderand ma.dness that had spread,among the
Jews, and fearing the cobsequences, the vizir sent a
boat to arrest Sabatai, and he was brought ashore a
prisoner, and co~mitted to the darkest dungeon, to
await his sentence.
Undiscouraged by this event, the Jews were rather
confirmed in their belief; and visited him with the
same ceremony, and respect, as if exalted on the
throne of Israel. Sabatai was kept a prisoner two
months, and then removed to the castle of Abydos,
D
.-
1
.34 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
where he was so much sought after by the Jews, that
the Turks demanded five or ten dollars for the admis-
sion of eacli proselyte. At his leisure in this castle,
he composed a new mode of worship.
The Jews now only awaited the personal appearanee
of Elias, previous to the glorious consummation.
There is a superstition among them, that Elias is in-
visibly present in their families, and they generally
spread a table for him, to which , they invite poor
people; leaving the chief seat for the Lord Elias, who
they believe partakes ofthe entertainment with grati-
tude. On one occasion, at the ceremony of circum-
cision, Sabatai took advantage of this credulity, fo~ he
exhorted the parents to wait awhile, and, after an in-
terval ~f half an hour, he ordered them to proceed.
The reason he gave for this delay was, that Elias had
not at first taken the seat prepared for him, and there-
.fore he had waited till he saw him sit down.
Having had the history of the whole affair laid be-
fore him, the grand seignor sent for Sabatai to
Adrianople. On receiving the summons, the pseudo
Messiah appeared to be much dejected, and to have
lost that courage which he formerly showed in the
synagogues. The grand seignor would not be satisfied
without a miracle any more than the Jews ; but he
wisely resolved that it should be one of his own
choosing. He ordered that Sabatai should be stripped
naked, and set up as a mark for the dexterous archers
of the sultan to shoot at, and, if it was found that his
skin was arrow-proof, he would then believe him to be
the Messiah. Not having faith enough in himself to
stand· so sharp a trial, Sabatai renounced all title to
kingdoms and governments, alleging that he was
merely an ordinary chocham. Not satisfied with this,
the grand seignor declared that the treason ofthe Jew
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 35
was only to be expiated by a conversion to Mahomet-
anism, which if he refused, a stake was ready at the
gate of the seraglio, on which to impale him. Sa-
batai replied, with much cheerfulness, that he was
contented to turn Turk ; and that not of force, but
choice, he having been a long time desirous of so
glorious a profession.
When the Jews received intelligence of Sabatai's
apostacy, and found that all their insane hopes were
completely blighted, they were filled with consterna-
tion and shame. The news quickly spread all over
Turkey, and they became so much the common deri-
sion of all the unbelievers, that, for a long time, they
were overcome with confusion and dejection of spirit.
· Of subsequent pretenders to the sacred character
.of the Messiah, it must suffice to mention two ; the
one of them a German, the other an English subject.
The German, whose name was Hans Rosenfeld, was'
a gamekeeper. The scene of his impious or insane
pretensions was Prussia and the neighbouring states.
He taught that Christianity was a deception, and that
its priests were impostors. Having thus summarily
disposed of spiritual matters, he proceeded to meddle
with temporal in a manner which was not a little dan-
gerous under a despotic government. Frederick the
Great, who was then on the throne, he declared to be
the devil; ··and, as it was not fit that the devil should
reign, Rosenfeld made known that he intended to de-
pose him. Having accomplished this difficult feat, he
was to rule the world, at the head of a council of
twenty-four elders. The seven seals were then to be
opened. In his choice of the angels who were to open
the seals, he took care to have an eye to his own plea-
sure and interest. He demanded from his followers
- seven beautiful girls, who were to fill the important
D2
36 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
office ; but that, in the mean while, the office might
not be a sinecure, they held the place of mistresses to
him, and maintained him by their labour.
Rosenfeld was suffered to go on thus for twenty
years, with occasionally a short imprisonment, and he
still continued to find dupes. He might, perhaps,
. have gone to his grave without receiving any serious
check, had he not been overthrown, though uninten-
tionally, by one of his own partisan~~t This man, who
had resigned three of his daughters to the impostor,
was tired of waiting so long for his promised share of
the good things which the pseudo Messiah was to dis-
pense; it was not his .faith, it was only his patience,
that was exhausted. To-quicken the movements of
Rosenfeld, he hit upon a rare expedient. As, accord-
ing to his creed, the king was the devil, he went to
him for the purpose of provoking the monarch to play
the devil, by acting in such.a manner as should com-
pel the impostor to exert immediately his supernatural
powers. On this provocation, Frederick did act, and
with effect. Rosenfeld was ordered to be tried ; the
trial took place in 1782, and the tribunal sentence(!
him to be whipped, and imprisoned for life at Spandau.
• Against this sentence he twice appealed, but it was
finally executed.
The English claimant of divine honours was
Richard Brothers. He was born at Placentia, in
Newfoundland, and had served in the navy, but re-
signed his commission, because, to use his own words,
he "conceived the military life to be totally repugnant
to the duties of Christianity, and he could n·ot con- •
scientiously r~eive the wages of plunder, bloodshed,
and murder." This step reduced him to great po-
verty, and he appears to have suffered much in con-
sequence. His mind was already shaken, and his
DECF!PTION, AND CREDULITY, 37
privations and solitary refleetions seem at length to
have entirely overthrown it. The first instance of his
madness appears to have been his belief that he could
restore sight to the blind. He next began to see
visions and to prophesy, and soon became persuaded
that he was commissioned by Heaven to lead back the
Jews to Palestine. It was in the latter part of 1794
that he announced, through the medium of the press,
his high destiny. His rhapsody bOre the title of" A
revealeci Knowledge of the Prophecies ana Times.
Book the First. Wrote under the direction of the
Lord Ged, and published by his sacred command; it
being the first sign of warning for the benefit ofall na-
tions. Containing, with other great and remarkable
things, not revealed to any other person on earth, the
restoration of the Hebrews to Jerusalem, by the year
of 1798 : under their revealed prince and prophet."
A second part speedily followed, which purported to
relate "particularly to the present time, the present
war, and the prophecy now fulfilling : containing, with
other great and remarkable things, not revealed to
any other person on earth, the sudden and perpetual
fall of the Turkish, German, and Russian Empires."
Among many similar flights, in this second part, was
one which described visions revealing to him the in-
tended destruction of London, and claimed for the
prophet the merit of having saved the city, by his
intercession with the Deity.
Though every page of his writing! betrayed the
melancholy .state of the unfortunate man's mind, such
is the infatuation of human beings, that be speedily
gained a multitude of partisans, who placed implicit
faith in the divine nature of his mission. Nor were
his followers found only in the humble and -unen-
lightened classes of society. Strange as it In&Y appear,
38 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
he was firmly believed in by men of talent and edu-
cation. Among his most devoted disciples were
Sharpe, the celebrated engraver, whom we shall soon
see clinging to Joanna Southcott; and Mr. Halhed, a
profound scholar, a man of great wit and acuteness,
and a member of the House of Commons. The
latter gave to the world various pamphlets, strongly-
asserting the prophetic mission of Brothers, and
actually made in the House a motion in favour of
the prince of the Jews. Numerous pamphlets were
also published bymembers of the new sect.
Brothers_ was now conveyed to a madhouse at
Islington ; but he continued to see visions, and to pour
forth his incoherencies in print. One of his produc-
tions, while he was in this asylum, was a letter, of two
hundred pages, to " Miss Cqtt, the recorded daughter
of King David, and future Queen of the Hebrews.
With an Address to the Members of his Britannic
Majesty's Council." The lady to whom his letter
was addressed had been an inmate of the same recep-
tacle with himself, and he became so enamoured, that
he discovered her to be " the recorded daughter of
both David and Solomon," and his spouse, "by divine
ordinance." Brothers was subsequently removed to-
Bedlam, where he resided till his decease, which did
not take place for sev~ral years.
- Among the roost mischievous of the pretenders to
prophetical inspiration may be reckoned Thomas
Muncer, and his companions, Storck, Stubner, Cel-
larius, Thomas, and several others, contemporaries of
Luther, from whom sprang the sect of the anabap-
tists. Eighty-four of them assumed the character of
twelve apostles and seventy-two disciples. " They
state wonderful things respecting themselves," says
Melancthon, in a letter to the Elector of Saxony ;
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 39
"namely, that they are sent to instruct mankind by·
the clear voice of God; that they verily hold converse
with God, see future things, and, in short, are alto-
gether prophetical and apostolical men." Muncer
was, of them all, the one who possessed the highest
portion of talents and eloquence, ·and chiefly by his
exertions a spirit of insurrection was excited among
the peasantry. Expelled from Saxony, be found a
retreat at Alstadt, in Thuringia, where the people
listened to his revelations, gave him the chief autho-
l'ity in the place, and proceeded to establish that com-_
munity of goods which was one of his doctrines. The
war of the peasants bad by this time broken out, but
Muncer hesitated to place himself at their head. The
exhortations of Pfeifer, another impostor, of a more
daring.spirit, and who pretended to have seen visions
predictive of success, at length induced him to take
the field. His force was, however, speedily attacked,
near Frankhuysen, by the army of the allied princes,
and, in spite of the courage and eloquence which he
displayed, it was utterly defeated. Muncer escaped
for the moment, but speedily fell into the hands of his
enemies, and, after having been twice tortured, was
beheaded. The same fate befel Pfeifer and some
of hhr associates. Of the unfortunate peasants, who
had been driven to arms by oppression, still more than
by fanaticiSm, several thousands perished.
Nine years afterwards, consequences equally disas-
trous were produced by fanatical leaders of the same
sect. In 1534, John Matthias of Haarlem, and John
Boccold, who, from his birth-place being Leyden, is
generally known as John of Leyden, at the head of
their followers, among the most conspicuous of whom
were Knipperdolling, and Bernard Ro~hman, a cele-
brated preacher, succeeded in making themselves
..
40 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
masters of the city of Munster. Though Matthias
was originally a baker, and the latter a journeyman
tailor, they were unquestionably men of grt>at courage
and ability. As soon as they were in possession of
the place, the authority was assumed by Matthias, and
equality and a community of goods were establish~,
and the name of Munster was changed to that of
Mount Sion. The city was soon besieged ·by its
bishop, Count Waldeck. Matthias, who had hitherto
displayed considerable skill in his military prepa-
rations, now took a step which proved that his reason
bad wholly deserted him. He determined, in imita-
tion of Gideon, to. go forth with only thirty men, and
overthrow the besieging host. Of course he and his
associates perished.
John of Leyden now became the principal leader.
To establish his authority, he 'pretended to fall into a
trance, and have visions. Among the revelations
made to him were, that he was to appoint twelve
elders of the people, similar to those of the twelve
Hebrew tribes, and that the laws of marriage were to
be changed, each person being henceforth at liberty
to marry as many wives as he chose. Of the latter
permission he availed himself to the extent of three
wives, one of whom was the widow of Matthias. A
new prophet now started up, who was a watchmaker by
trade. Charged, as he pretended, with a mission
from above, be gathered round him a multitude, and
announced it to be the will of Heaven, that John of
Leyden should be crowned king of all the earth, and
should march at the head of an army to put down
princes and unbelievers. Jojm was accordingly en-
throned; and, decked in royal orname11ts, he held his
court in an open part of the city. Among his first
acts of sovereignty appears to have been the de-
DECEPTiON, AND CREDULITY. 41
spatchiilg, in pursuance of'a celestial order, twenty-
eight. missionaries, to spread the doctrines of his sect
through the four quarters of the world. The twenty- ·
eight apostles were readily found; and they proceeded
·to execute his orders. Of these unfortunate enthu-
siasts all bii.t one.endured tortures and death.
The bishop had by this time increased his force to an
extent which enabled him to hold the city completely
blookaded. The citizens suffered dreadfully from
famine and disease ; but John of Leyden lost not one
jot of his confidence: One of his wives,.having in-
cautiously expressed her sympathy for the sufferers,
was instantly punished by being beheaded, and her
death was celebrated by the multitude with singing
and dancing.
During all this time, John of Leyden displayed a
degree of firmness, vigilance, and prudence in guard-
ing against the enemy, which did credit to his abilities.
Till nearly the end of June 1535, he contrived to
hold the blockading army at bay. But the end of his
reign was now approaching. Two fugitives gave·the
bishop information of a vulnerable point; and on the
.24th of June a band of picked soldiers effected an
entrance into the city. A desperate struggle ensued,
and the king and his partisans fought with such des-
perate courage, that the assailants were on the very
verge of defeat, when they contrived to open a gate,
and admit the troops from without the walls. Resist-
ance was speedily subdued by overwhelming numbers.
Rothman was fortunate enough to fall by the sword ;
but John of ;Leyden, Knipperdolling, and another of
the leaders, were taken, and died in the most barba~
rous torments ; their flesh was top~ from their bones
by burning pincers, and their mangled remains were
hung up in iron cages.
-~
42 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
Passing to the commencement of the eighteenth
century, we find a group of pretended prophets and
-miracle-workers, perhaps not less fanatical than those
which have just been described, hut certainly less
noxious. They were protestants, and were known by
the appellation of the French prophets. It was
towards the latter end of 1706 that they came to
England, from the mountains of the Cevennes, where
their countrymen had for a considerable time main-
tained a contest with the troops of the persecuting
Louis XIV. As exiles for conscience sake, they were
treated with respect and kindness; but they soon
forfeited all claim to respect by the folly or knavery
of their conduct. Of this group Elias Marion ·was
the prominent figure ; the others acting only subor-
dinate parts. He loudly proclaimed that he was
the messenger of Heaven, and was authorised to
denounce judgments, and to look into futurity. All
kinds of arts were employed by Marion and his asso-
ciates, to excite public attention-sudden droppings
down as though death-struck ; sighs and groans, and
then shrieks and vociferations, on recovering; broken
sentences, uttered in unearthly tones; violent contor-
tions ; and desperate strugglings with the Spirit, fol-
lowed by submission and repentance ; were all brought
into play. The number of the belie,·ers in their
power soon became considerable. In proportion as -
they gained partisans, they increased their vaunts of
miraculous gifts ; and at length they boldly announced
that they were invested with power to raise the dead.
They even went so far as to try the experiment ;
and, notwithstanding repeated failures, their besotted
followers continued.to adhere to them. In vain did
the ministers and elders of the French chapel, in the
Savoy, declare their pretensions to be blasphemous
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 43
and dangerous. Far from being deterred by this'
censure, the prophets grew more strenuous in their
exertions to make proselytes, and more daring in their
invectives ; prophesying daily in the streets to crowds,
launching invectives against the ministers of the esta-
blished church, and predicting heavy judgments on
the British metropolis and nation. It was at last
thought necessary to put a stop to their career, and
they were consequently prosecuted as impostors.
They were sentenced to he exposed on a scaffold, at
Charing Cross and the Royal Exchange, with a paper
declaring their offence ; to pay each of them a fine of
twenty marks; and to find security for their good
behaviour. After a time the sect which they had
formed died away, but its ruin was less to be attributed.
to the punishment of the prophets, or the recovery of
reason by their votaries, than by a report which was
spread that they were nothing more than the instru-
ments of designing men, who wished to disseminate
Socinianism, and destroy orthodoxy.
About twenty years after the freaks of .the French
prophets bad been put down in England, scenes
occurred in the French capital which degrade human
nature, and appear almost incredible. Those scenes
arose out of the contest between the Jansenists and
their antagonists, and the dispute respecting the cele-
brated Bull Unigenitus, which the Jansenists held in
abhorrence. One of the oppugners of the bull was
the deacon Paris, a pious and charitable man, whose
scruples on the subject prevented him from taking
priest's orders, and who relinquished his patrimony to
his younger brother, and lived by making stockings,
the gains arising from which humble occupation he
shared with the poor.
His benevolence, his pie~y, and his austere life,
44 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
gained for him admiration and affection; and when he
died,in 1727,hisgraveintbe church-yardof St. Medard
was visited by crowds, as that of a saint. Some of his
votaries, who were deceased or infirm, soon began to
imagine that a miraCle was worked on them by the
~nfluence of the blessed deceased. Blind eyes were
said to be restored to their faculty of seeing, and
contracted limbs to be elongated. As faith increased,
cures increased, and so did the multitudes which
thronged from all parts, and consisted of the highest
,as well as the lowest ranks. The votaries now began ·
to exhibit the most violent convulsionary movements,
and to utter groans, shrieks, and cries• As such
movements are readily propagated by sympathy, the
number of persons affected grew daily greater. At
length, the matter beginning to wear a serious aspect,
the government shut up the church-yard ; a proceed-
ing which gave birth to a witty but somewhat pro-
fane distich, which was written upon the gate:
" De par le Roi, defense aDieu
De faire miracle en ce lieu."
But though the votaries were expelled from the
church-yard, they did not discontinue their practices.
The scene of action was only removed to private
houses. Miracles, too, were still worked by means of
earth from the church-yard, and water from the well
which had supplied the deacon's beverage. Pushing
their frenzy to extremity, the convulsionaries, as
they were called, invented a system of self-torture,
not exceeded by that of the Hindoos. Their purpose
was to obtain the miraculous aid of the beatified
deacon. To be beaten with sticks, to bend the body
into a semicircle, 'and suffer a stone of fifty pounds'
weight to be dropped from the ceiling down on the
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 45
abdomen, and to lie with a plank on the same part,
while several men stood upon it, were among the trials
to which even women submitted, apparently with
delight. In some instances their insanity prompted
them to still more horrible displays; some being tied
on spits and exposed to the flames, and others nailed
to a cross by the hands and feet.
In this case, as in many others, we are astonished
to find that m~n of learning and acute intellect are to
be met with in the list of believers. There were also
many who, notwithstanding they shrank from the
irreverence of making the Deity a party to such deeds,
believed the miracles to be really performed, and
were, of course, under the necessity of giving the
credit of them to the devil. It might naturally be
supposed so insane a sect as that of the convulsionaries
would speedily die away, but this did not happen; in
spite of ridicule, and punishment, it maintained its
ground to a certain extent for a long series of years,
and there is some reason to doubt whether it is yet
· wholly extinct.
Two insane fanatics, of Brugglen, in the canton of
Berne, did not escape with so slight a penalty as those
who have already been·recorded. They were brothers,
named Rohler, and, in the year 1746, they proclaimed
themselves to be the two witnesses mentioned in the
eleventh chapter of the Revelations, and selected a
girl of their acquaintance to fill the paTt of the woman
who was to be clothed with the sun, and have the
moon under her feet. The advent of Christ to
judge the world, they fixed for the year 1748, after
which. event the kingdom of Heaven was to com-
mence in their village. One of the brothers gave a
sufficient proof of his being mad, by declaring that
be wo'!ld ascend in the flesh to heaven before the
46 SKETCll:ES OF IMPOSTURE,
assembled multitude. He had,. however, cunning
enough to attribute his failure to the circumstance of
numbers of his followers holding by his garments,
that they might take the journey with him. These
lunatics were followed by crowds, who abandoned all.
. their usual occupations, thinking it useless to work,
when the final day was at hand; and many of the
believers in their mission indulged in licentious plea-
sures, perhaps under the idea that, as little time was
left, they ought tomake the most of it. The govern-
ment of Berne at length began to apprehend danger
from this frenzy, and it averted the evil by dooming
the brothers to death.
While the Bernese peasants were thus blindly
yielding to superstitious delusions, a circumstance
occurred which proved that the enlightened citizens of
the British capital were as liable as the Swiss boors
to the same species of folly. In 1750, on the 8th of ·
February, and the 8th of March, two rather severe
shocks of earthquake were felt in London. As
exactly four weeks had elapsed between the two
shocks, it was sagaciously concluded that a third would
occur at a similar period. The fear which this idea
excited was raised to the highest pitch by a mad life-
guardsman, who went about exhorting to repentance,
and predicting that, on the 5th of April, London and
Westminster would be wholly destroyed. His pre-
dictions had at least one beneficial effect, that of filling
the churches and emptying the gin-shops. When the
. supposed fatal hour arrived, the roads were thronged
with thousands, who were flying into the ceuntry; so
numerous were the fugitives that lodgings could hardly
be obtained at Windsor, and many were obliged to sit
in their coaches all night. Others, who had not the
means of retiring to a distance, or whose fears were
DEC.EPTlpN, AND CREDULITY. 47
• less violent, lay in boats all night, or waited in crowds
in the open fields round the metropolis, till the dread-
ful moment was passed by, till the broad daylight
showed them at once the city still uninjured, and the
disgraceful absurdity of their own conduct.
Considering the period at which it took place, when
the failure of Brothers was yet recent, and the success
which it nevertheless met with, the imposture of
Joanna Southcott may be deemed as remarkable as
any that has occurred. Though her claims to inspi-
- ration have been trampled in the dust by death, there
are still some who insanely look forward to the com-
pletion of prophecies as ridiculous as they were blas-
phemous.
Notwithstanding thousands, from all parts of Eng-
land, looked on Joanna Southcott with reverence and
gratitude, as the means through which salvation would
be effected, there does not appear anything remarkable,
in her character or her history, to give a colour to
her extraordinary pretensions. Joanna was born
in April 1750, the daughter of a small farmer in
Devonshire ; for many years she lived as a servant in
Exeter, and her character was irreproach,able; from
her early years she delighted in the study of the
scriptures, and was accustomed on all interesting occa-
sions to apply directl!J to Heaven for advice ; and she
affirmed that, sooner or later, an answer was always
returned by outward signs or inward feelings. During
her probationary state, as it may be called, she had
many temptations, which she was strengthened to
resist and overcome.
After she had drawn the attention of the world by
her prophecies and writings, great·pains were taken
to ascertain the truth of her commission. " From
the end of 1792," says_ Mr. Sharpe,the most devout
48 SKETCHES OF iMPOSTURE,.
of her believers, "to the end of 1794, her writings
were sealed up with great caution, and remained secure
till they were conveyed by me to High House, Pad-
dington; and the box which contained them was
opened in the beginning of January 1803. Her
writings were examined_during seven days, and the·
result of this long scrutiny was, the unanimous deci-
sion of twenty-three persons appointed by divine
command, as well as of thirty-five others that were
present, that her calling was of God." They came
to this conclusion from the fulfilment of the prophecies
contained in these writings, and to which she appealed
with confidence and triumph. It was a curious cir-
cumstance, however, that her handwriting was illegi-
ble. Her remark on this occasion was, " This must
be, to fulfil the Bible. Every vision John saw in
heaven must take place on earth; and here is- the
sealed book, that no one can read !''
A protection was provided for all those who sub-
scribed their names as volunteers, for the destruction
of Satan's kingdom. To every subscriber a folded
paper was-delivered, endorsed with his name, and se-
cured with the impression of Joanna's seal in red wax:
this powerful talisman consisted of a circle enclosing
the two letters J. C., with a star above and below, and
the following wordo~, " The sealed of the Lord, the
Elect, Precious, Man's Redemption, to inherit the
tree of life, to be mai'le heirs of God and joint-heirs of
Jesus Christ." The whole was authenticated by the
signature of the prophetess in her illegible characters,
and the person thus provided was said to be sealed.
Conformably, however, to the 7th chapter of the
Revelations, the number of those highly protected
persons was not to exceed 144,000.
The great object of her mission was to bring forth
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 49
a son, the Shiloh, promised to be born ofa virgin : and
this event had been looked forward 'to by her followers
with unbounded enth'usiasm and credulity. Disap.
pointment, more than once, appeared inevitable ; the
period, however, at last was said to draw nigh, she
being sixty-four years of age. As shelaboured under
more than the usual indisposition incidental to preg-
nancy,.and it was deemed necessary to satisfy worldly
doubts, medical men were• called in, to give a pro-
fessional opinion, as to the fact, from a consideration
of- all the symptoms, and without reference to mi-
raculous agency, Some asserted their belief that she
was pregnant; others disbelieved and ridiculed the
idea.
One of these gentlemen, Mr. Mathias, published
his view of the case. He was informed- that Joanna
was sixty-four years old, a virgin and pregnant with,
the expected son. Appearing incredulous, as he well
might, he was asked "If he would believe when he saw
the infant at the breast?" He protestedagainst opini-
ons so blasphemous, and cautioned thetn to be wary
how they proceeded, and to consider the consequences
of attempting a delu11ion so mischievous upon the ig-
norant and credulous. Hia further attendance was
declined, as she· had been answered, " That he had
drawn a wrong judgment of her disorder." In Mr.
Mathias's opinion, notoriety, ease and atBuence, ap•
peared to be the prevailing passions of Joanna's mind,
and the means she adopted to fulfil her desires would
seem, and actuallyproved, well calculated to answer her
end. She passed much of her time in bed in downy ill•
dolence, she ate much and often, and prayed never;;
when she would have it she. was with child, abe, li~e
other ladies in that situation, had longings ; on one o~
casion she longed fot uparagus, when' it was .by no.
B
50 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTVRJ:,
means a cheap- article of food; and 80 strong was he..
longing, that she is said to have eaten one hundred and
sixty heads before she allayed it. At this period, shoals
of enthusiasts, with more money than wit,-poured into
the metropolis, to oehold this chosen vessel.
Mr. Richard Reece was now consulted by Joanna
Southoott, on the subject of her pregnaBcy. It does
not appear that he was a proselyte te her religion!\
views, bnt he was probabl}' deluded and deceived, by
the enumeration of physical symptoms. Atall events,
he was prevailed on to avow his belief of her being
pregnant, by some means or other ; and a namerons
deputation of her followers, who appeared a motley
group of all persuasions, waited upon him to receive
the happy intelligence from his own lips. By this
conduct he seems to have acquired great favour in hu
sight, for he continued in attendance till her death.
'· When her supposed time of deliverance from her
precious burthen approached, Joanna felt alarmingly
ill; and her fears, either conquering her fanaticism or
awakening her conscience, began to make her suspect
that her inspiration was deceptions. A few weeks be-
fore her death, her misgivings gave rise to the follow-
ing scene, which is described by Mr~ Reece, who was
present. Five or six of her friends, who were waiting
in an adjoining room, peing admitted_into her bed-
chamber1 :!she desired them (says Mr. Reece) to be
seated r.ound her bed ; when, spending a few minutes
in adjusting the bed clothes with seeming atte11tion,
and placing before her a white handkerchief, she.thus
addressed them, as nearly as I call recollect, in the
following words : ' My friends, some of you have
known me nearly twenty•five years, aDd all of you
not less than twentY.; when you have heard me speak
of ~ prophecies, yeu havesometimesheard mesaythat
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 51
I doubted my inspiration. But at the sanie time you
would never let me despair. When I have been alone,
it has often appeared delusion; but when the com-
munication was made to me, I did not in the least
doubt. Feeling, as I now do feel, that my dissolution
is drawing near, and ihat a day or two may terminate
my life, it all appears delusion.'-She was bythis ex-
ertion quite exhausted, and wept bitterly. On re·
viving in a little 'ime, she observed that it was very
extraordinary, that after spending all her life in invest~~
gating the Bible, it should please the Lord to inflict
that heavy burthen on her. She concluded this dis~
course, by requesting that eyerything on this occasion
might be conducted with decev.cy. She then wept ;
and all her followers present seemed deeply affected,
and some of them shed tears. • Mother,' said one, (I
believe Mr. Howe) •we will commit your instructions
til paper, and rest assured they11hall be conscientiously
followed.' They were accordingly written down with
much solemnity, and signed by herself, with her hand
placed on the Bible in the bed. This being finished,
Mr. Howe again observed to her, •Mother, your feel~
in.gs are human : we know that you are a favourite
woman of God, and that you will produce the
promised child ; and whatever you may say to the
contrary wiU not diminish our faith.' This assurance
revived her, and the scene of Ci'ying was changed
with her to laughter.'"
· Mr. Howe was not the OJlly one of her diilciples
whose sturdy belief was not to he shaken hy.the most'
discouraging symptoms. Colonel Harwood, a zealous
believer, intreated Mr. Reece not ·to retract his opi-
nion as to her pregnancy, though the ~tter now saw
the folly and absurdity of it ; and when the colonel
approached the bed. on which abe was about to expir«:,
E2
52 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE, .
and she said to him, " What does the Lord mean by
this? I am certainly dying ;" he replied, smiling, " No,
no, you will not die, or if you should, you will return
again."
· Even when she was really dead, the same blind·con·
fidence remained. Mrs. Townley, with whom.she had
lived, said cheerfully, " she would return to life, for it
had been foretold twenty years before." Mr. Sharpe
also asserted that the soul of Joanna would return, it
having gone to heaven to legitimate the child which
would be born. Though symptoms of decomposition
arose, Mr. Sharpe still persisted in keeping the body
hot, according to the· directions which she had given
on her death-bed, in the hope of a revival. "Mr. Reece
having remarked that, if the ceremony of her marriage
continued two days longer, the tenement would not be
habitable on her return, "the greater will be the mi-
racle," said Mr. Sharpe. Consent at last was given to
inspect the body, and all the disciples stood round
smoking tobacco ; their disappointment was excessive
at 1inding nothing to warrant the long cherished
opinion, but their f11itb remained immoveable. More
than twenty years have elapsed since her death, yet
many persons are still infatuated enough to avow
themselves believers in her supernatural mission.
The most recent thaumaturgist with whom we are
acquainted bears no less a title than t.hat of prince,
and worked his wonders within· the last thirteen years.
The personage in question is Prince Alexander Ho-
henlohe, whose miracles have made much noise in the
world, and given rise to no small portion of angry
controversy. His highness, who appears to have pre-
viously been practising with much success in Ger-
many, first became generally known in this country
by an extraordinary cure which he was said to have
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 1 53
performed on a nun, at the convent of New Hall,
near Chelmsford, in Essex. It must be premised,
that it was by no means necessary for him to see or
be near his patient ; prayers being the sole means
which -be employed. Accordingly, be did not stir
from his residence at Bamberg. The nun at New
Hall had for a year and a half been afilicted with an
enormous and painful swelling of the right hand and
arm, which resisted every medical application. In
this emergency, the superior of the convent applied
for the aid of Prince Hohenlohe. The answer which
he returned seems to prove that he was a pious though
a mistaken man. It also affords some in~ight into
the ~use of the effect which was undoubtedly some-
times produced. "At eight o'clock on the third of
May, I will, in compliance with your request, offer up
my prayers for your recovery. At the same hour,-
after having confessed and taken the sacrament, join
your prayers also, with that evangelical fervour, and
that entire faith, which we owe to our Redeemer,
Jesus Christ. Stir up from the very bottom of your
heart the divine virtues of true repentanee, Christian
charity, a boundless belief that !JOUr pra,'ler' will be
granted, and a steadfast resolution to lead an exem-
plary life, to the end that you may continue in a state
of grace." Whatever may be thought of his miracu-
lous pretensions, it is impossible to deny that his
exhortation was praiseworthy. The following ac-
count of the result is given by Dr. Badelly, the phy-
sician to the Convent:-" On the third of May (says
he) she went through the religious process prescribed
by the prince. Mass being nearly ended, Miss
O'Connor not finding the immediate relief which .she
expected, exclaimed, 'Thy will be done, 0 Lord l
thou hast not thought me worthy of this cure: AI-
54 SltE1'CHES OF IMPOSTURE,
most immediately after, she felt an extraordinary
sensation through the wlwle arm, to the ends of .her
fingers. The pain instantly left her, and the swelling
gradually subsided; but it was some weeks before the
hand resumed its natural shape and size."
Other cures, still more marvellous, are said to have
followed in rapid succession. Requests for assistance
now poured in so rapidly from· all quarters, that he
was nearly overwhelmed. On an average he received
daily fifty letters. As it was physically impossible for
him to attend to every individual application, a vast
majority of his suitors must have gone without the
benefit of'his curative powers, had he not fortunately
hit. upon a plan to accommodate all comers. His new
arrangement consisted in " adopting a system of offer-
ing his prayers for the relief of particular districts, on
particular days." For instance, seven o'clock in the.
morning, on the first of August, was appointed for
curing all the diseased in Ireland, and notice was
given to all the religious communities in that- island,
that it would be proper for each of them, at the same
hour, to perform a mass. This delusion flourished
for a consi~erable time; but it gradually died away,
and, for some years past, nothing more has been heard
of Prince Alexander Hohenlohe's miracle-working in-
tercession.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 55
CHAPTER IV.
ROHAN C&~ROLlC SUPERSTITIONS, &c.
Account of Pope Joan-Artifice of Pope Sextus V.-Some ChriS.:
tian Ceremonies borrowed from the Jews and Pagan11--Melting
-of-the Blood of ~t. Januarin-Addison's opinion of it-De-
scription of the Performance of tlae Miracle-Miraculous Image
-of our Si'viour at Rome-Ludicrous Metamorphosis of a Statue·
-Relica-Head of St. John the Baptist-Sword of Balaam-
St. Ursula. and the Eleven Thousand Virgins-Self-Tormenting
, -Penances of St. Dominic ~he Cuirassier-The Crusades--,;
Their Cause and Progress, and the immense numbers engaged in
them.
THERE appears to have been, on the one hand, an
extensive belief in the ·existence of a female Pope
Joan, while, on the other, many eminent writers have
- been anxious to relieve the papal chair of such a scan-
dal. .
By the believers in her existence, Joan is affirmed
to haye worn the tiara between Leo IV. who died 855~
and Benedict III. who died 858. Anastatius the
library keeper, in that age, does not appear to have
made mention of this she-pope ; but Marianus Scotus
observes, under the year 855; that, Joan a woman;
succeeded Leo IV. during two years five months and
four days.
Joan, whose original'name, we are told, was Gil~
berta, js said to have been a native of Mentz, in Ger-
many, and to have received ari excellent education.
Falling in love with a young Englishman, a monk at
Fulda, she assumed male attire to obtain admittance
into the monastery where he resided. They subse-
quently eloped, and travelled through many coun-
tries.
Their time, however, was not wholly devoted to
"love and love's disport;" for they are said to have·
..
56 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
omitted no opportunity of acquiring knowledge, and,
among other plaees, to have studied at Athens. Her
lover having died, she repaired to Rome, still dis-
guised as a man: she was extremely witty, and had a
graceful way of arguing at disputations and public
lessons ; so that many were equally surprised at her
learning, and delighted by her manner. She gained
stich friendship and goodwill, that, after the death of
Leo, she was chosen Pope, and performed all the acts
-and ceremonies Popes are wont to do.
Whilst she was Pope, she became pregnant by one
of her chaplains ; and as she was going in solemn pro-
cession to the Church of the Lateran, she was de-
livered, in the midst of the city, in the great square,
and in the presence of all the people. She died on
the spot, and was buried without papal pomp, or any
of the usual honours. Her sudden death was said by
tiome to be a judgment for her crime ; and it was
added, that, by a divine notification sent down to her,
she had the c)loice of undergoing such a public ex-
posure here, and obtaining pardon hereafter, or pass-
ing through life tranquilly, and incurring a future
dreadful responsibility.
It has bee,n maintained by others that Pope John
the Eighth manifesting much imbecility ana coward-
ice, the people thought he should rather be called a
woman than a man ; thence arose the· unfounded
report, that a woman was in reality elected Pope.
The general belief, however is, that the whole story
is an utterly groundless fabrication.
Pope Sixtus the Fifth, when he first came tq Rome,
was constraine~ t,o beg alms, but, by his abilities, he
at last raised himself to the Popedom. When he first
aspired. to that dignity, while he was yet a Cardinal,
he counterfeited illness and old age for fifteen years•
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 57
During the conclave which was assembled to create a
Pope, he continually leaned on his crutch, and very
frequently interrupted the sage deliberations of the
conclave by a hollow oough and violent spitting. This
scheme took so well that the Cardinals fell into the·
trap ; and every one thinking that, by electing Sixtus,
he might himself stand a chance of being in a short
time elected, he was unanimously chosen. As soon
as the election was concluded, the new Pope performed
a miracle; his legs became vigorous, his body, that
had been before curved, became firm and erect, his
cough was dissipated; and he showed, in a short time,
of what he was capable.
It cannot be denied but that Christianity is adorned
with the_ spoils of Judaism and Paganism : our best
authors .are of that opinion ; among others Duchoul,
at the .end of his treatise concerning the religion of
the oldRomans, ingenuously owns the conformity there
is between the ceremonies of the Christians and those
of the Romans and Egyptians. Such being the case,
it will not be thought extraordinary that many of the
modern miracles, so famed in Italy, should be the
identical prodigies of former times ; for, in order to
accelerate the conversion of the Gentiles, the first
Popes found it necessary to dissemble, and to wink at-
many things, so as to effect a compromise between
the original superstition and the modem creed.
The melting ofthe blood ofSt.-Januarius, at Naples,
when with great solemnity, it is applied to his head,
on ~he day of his festival-whilst at other times it
continues dry in the glass-is one of the standing and
authentic miracles of Italy ; yet Mr. Addison, who
twice saw it performed, says that, instead of appearing
to be a real miracle, he thought it one of the most
bungling tricks he had ever: seen, and believed it to be
58 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
copied from a similar heathen miracle, the melting of
the incense, without the help of fire, at Gnatia, as
described by Horace in his journey to Brundusium :
Dum, ftamm~ line, thnra liqneecere limine aaero
Penuadere eupit•
. · Another eye-witness to the same miracle, Dr.
Dull.ll, says, " he approached through the crowd till
he got dose to the bust of St. Januarius. The
archbishop had been attempting to perform the miracle,
and an old monk stood by, who was at the utmost
pains to instruct him how to handle, chafe, and rub
the bottle which contained the blood. He frequently,
also, took it in his own ha11ds, but· his manreuvres
were as ineffectual as those of the archbishop, who
was all over in a profuse sweat with vexation and
exertion, fearing lest the people might interpret so
unpropitious an omen against him. The old monk,
with a genuine expression of chagrin, exclaimed,
,. Cospetto di Bacco, e dura come una pietra.' An
universal gloom overspread the multitude. Some
were in a rage at the saint"s obstinacy, and called his
head an ungrateful yellow-faced rascal. It wail now
almost dark, and, when least expected, the signal was
given that the miracle was performed. A Roman
catholic,who remained close by the archbishop, assured
me this miracle failed altogether ; the bottle was
turned with a rapid motion before the eyes of 'the
spectators, who would not contradict that which they
were all expecting to see." ·
An image of our Saviour is shown at Rome, which,·
some time before the sacking of that city, wept so
heartily, that the good fathers of the monastery were
all employed in wiping its face with cotton ; thus fol-
/ lowing the example of the. statue of Apollo, which,
according to Livy, wept for three day.s and nighta
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 5!)
successively. This phenomenon resembles another,
which is recorded respecting a silltue of Orpheus, in
Libethra, which was made of cypress wood. When
Alexander the Great was on the point of setting out
upon his expedition, various omens occurred; among
them, this statue was in a profuse sweat for several
days. Aristander, the soothsayer, gave a favourable
interpretation to this apparent indication of fear, by
saying it was emblematic of the labour the poets and
historians would have to undergo, to celebrate the
actions of the Macedonian monarch.
Mrs. Piozzi mentions a ludicrous metamorphosis of
one·statue at Rome. "A beautiful statue of Diana,"
says she, " with her trussed up robes, the crescent
alone wanting, stands on the high altar to receive
homage in the character of St. Agnes, in a pretty
church dedicated to her, (fuor della porte) where it
is supposed she suffered martyrdom, and why ? for
not. venerating that very goddess Diana, and for re-
fusing to walk in her processions at the new moons.
• Such contradictions put one from oneself,' as Shak-
speare saith."
The incredible absurdities of some of the assertions
made by the possessors of sacred 'relics, ought to have
been sufficient, in the name of common sense, to con-
vict them of imposture. What can be at once more
ridiculous and irreligious than the following ? The
monastery of St. Benedict, in France, had for time ·
immemorial been supposed to possess that invaluable
relic, the head ofJohn ths Baptist. Many years since,
however, the monastery of St. Francis overthrew
their claim, by declaring, that in their dormito~;y, they
bad discovered the genuine caput: and one of the
friars testifying to its being the real head, in.the most
solemn DliUlller asserted that when, in _
a holy fervour,
60 ~KETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
he frequently kissed the lips, he found they still re-
tained the flavour of locusts and wild honey. So
strong a proof there was no withstanding ; the claim
of St. Francis was admitted, and established by the
conclave. The recital of one forgery only recals
another, and it would be easy to recount well authen·
ticated tales, which would fill a volume. An exhi-
.bitor of holy relics showed with much veneration the
sword with which Balaam smote his ass.... Being re-
minded that scripture only recorded Balaam's wish
for such a weapon, he adroitly replied, "Aye, and
this is the sword he wished for."
Those who have through motives ofcuriosity visited
many of the shrines abroad may have remarked an in-
credulity often lurking about the countenances of the
holy men who exhibit them: the bolder, indeed, will
openly laugh, when questioned as to their.own belief
on these subjects.
The vulgar, however, have generally too much cre-
dulity to be sufficiently competent to judge of the
truth or falsehood of what is set befbre them, and too
many evidences ~till exist of their folly with regard to
relics.
Cologne,onaccount ofits numerous religious houses,
• Balaam's Ass, may remind the reader of the "Feast of tl)e
Ass." In several churches in France they used to celebrate 'a
festival, in commemoration of the Virgin Mary'a flight into Egypt•
. It was called the Feast of the Ass. A young girl riehl.r dreBBed,
with a child in her arms, was set upon an Ass superbly caparisoned.
The Ass was led to the altar in solemn procession, High Mass was
said with great pomp, tLe Ass was taught to kneel at proper places,
a hymn, no leas childish than impious, waa eung in his praise, and
when the ceremony was ended, the priest, instead of the usual
words with which he dismissed the people, brayed three times like
an Ass; and the people, instead of the usual response, " We bless
tl1e Lord," brayed tLree times in the same manner. Vide Dn
Cange, voc. Festum, VoL 3, p. 424.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 6}
relics, &c. was called the Holy City. The chapel of
St. Ursula there became very famous, for being the
depositary of her bones and those of the eleveil thou-
sand virgins, her companions, who came from England
In a little boat to convert the Huns, who had taken
possession of Cologne in 640, and who, unmoved by
the sweet eloquence of so many virgin!!, quickly
silenced their arguments by putting th~m all to death.
Some doubt arose many years since, whether any
country could have spared so many virgins: and a
surgeon, somewhat of a wag, upon examination of
the consecrated bones, declared that most of them
were the bones of full grown female mJlStiffs-for
which discovery he was expelled the city.
The horrors of Hindoo penance may be thought
equalled by the voluntary sufferings of some of the
earlier saints in the calendar, when fanaticism and
ignorant credulity went hand in hand. The most
remarkable of these early fanatics was, perhaps, St.
Dominic the Cuirassier, thus named from an iron
cuirass which be wore next his skin, and which was
never taken off, till it was necessary to replace it by a
new one. Conceiving that he had incurred the guilt
of simony, he not only refrained from performing
mass, but resolved to do penance the rest of his life;
the result of this determination is so well described ia
the pages of a leading periodical,'" that it is trans· ·
!erred with slight condensation.
'fhe first step towards this perpetual penance was,
to enter into the congregation of Santa Croce Fonte
Avellana, whose exercises were so rigorous that one
of their &mlllements was to flog each other after the
aervices. It wy a general belief that the pains of
• Quarterly Review, July 1819; art. ''Britilh Monachism,
by D. FC?~brooko."
6!f SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
purgatory might be mitigated by certain acts -of
penance and an indulgence from the Pope.
The monks of Santa Croce determined that thirty
psalms, said or sung, with an obligato accompaniment
of one hundred stripes to each psalm, making in all
·three thousand, would be re<'eived as a set off for
one year's purgatory: the whole psalter, with fifteen
thousand stripes, would redeem five years from the
vast crucible, and twenty psalters, with three hundred
thousand stripes fairly entered, would be equal to a
.receipt in full for one hundred years.
This Dominic the Cuirassier, being-very ambitious,
tasked himself generally at ten psalters, and thirty
thousand lashes a day, at which rate he would have
redeemed three thousand six hundred and fifty years
of purgatory per annum. In addition to this, how-
ever, he used to petition for a supplementary task of
a hundred years., Being, as he hoped, already a cre-
ditor to a large amount in the angel's books, and as
no good works can be lost, he recited and lashed away
for the benefit of the great sinking fupd of the
catholic church, with more spirit than ever. During
one Lent he entreated for, and obtained, the imposition
of a thousand years ; and St. Pietro Damiano affirms
that, in these forty days, he actually recited the
psalter two hundred times, and infticted sixty millions
of stripes ; working away with a scourge in each hand.
In an heroic mood he once determined to ftog him·
self, in the jockey phrase, against time, and at the
end of twenty-four hours had gone through the
psalms twelve times, and begun them the thirteenth,
the quota of stripes being one hundred and eighty-
"
three thousand, reducing purgatory~ stock sixty-one
years, twelve days, and ~hi.rty-three minutes. It still
remains to be proved," how he could recite verses. and
DECEPTION, AND CR-EDULITY, 63.
count lashes at the same time, or. consistently have
continued to wear his cuirass, which would have nul-
lilied the infliction of so many stripes.
There is no event in the history of the religious
opinions of mankind more singular than that of the
.Crusades; every circumstance that tends to explain,
or give any rati<1Dal acccount of, this extraordinary
frenzy of delusion in the human mind is interesting.
In the account which follows, that which is given
from the elegant pen of Dr. Robertson, in his Life
of the Emperor Charles V. has been taken advan-
tage of.
Tile Crusades, or expeditions to rescue the Holy
Land out of the hands of Infidels, seemed to ·be the
first event that roused Europe from the lethargy in
which it had been long sunk, and that tended to in-
troduce any considerable change in governm_ent, or in
manners. It is natural to the human mind to view
those places which have been _distinguished by being
the residence of any illustrious personage, or the scene
of any great transaction, with some degree of delight
and veneration. To this principle must be ascribed
the superstitious devotion with which Christians, from
the earliest ages of the church, were accustomed to
visit that country, which the Almighty had selected
as the inheritance of his favourite people, and in
which the Son of God had accomplished the redemp-
tion of mankind. ·
. As this distant pilgrimage could not be performed
without considerable expense, fatigue, and danger, it,
appeared tne more meritorious, and came to be con-
sidered as an expiation for almost every crime. An
opinion which spread with rapidity over Europe,
about the close of the tenth and beginning of th~
eleventh century, and which gained universal credit,
64 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
wonderfully augm~nted the number of credulous pil-
grims, and increased the ardour with which they
undertook this useless voyage.
The thousand years, mentioned by St. John in the
twentieth chapter of Revelations, were supposed to be
accomplished, and the end of the world to be at hand.
A general consternation seized mankind: many re--
linquished their possessions ; and abandoning their
friends and families, hurried with prElcipitation to the
Holy Land, where they imagined that Christ would
quickly appear to judge the world.
This belief was so universal, and so strong, that it
mingled itself with civil transactions. Many charters,
in the latter part of the tenth century, began in this
manner: •• Appropinquante mundi termino," &c.-
" as the end of the world is now at hand, and by va-
rious calamities and judgments the signs of its ap-
proach are now manifest."
While Palestine continued subject to the caliphs,
they had encouraged the resort of pilgrims to Jeru-
salem ; and considered this as a beneficial species of
commerce, which brought into their dominions gold
and silver, and carried nothing out of them but relics
and consecrated trinkets. But the Turks having
conquered Syria, about the middle of the eleventh
century, pilgrims were exposed to outrages of every
kind from these fierce barbarians. -
This change, happening precisely at the juncture
when the pauic terror above mentioned rendered
pilgrimages most frequent, filled Europe with alarm
and indignation. Every person who returned from
Palestine related the dangers which he had encoun•.
tered in visiting the holy city, and described with
exaggeration the cruelty and vexations of the Turks.
When the ~nds of men were thus prepared, the
D.ECEl:'TION, AND CREDULITY. 65
zeal of a fanatical monk, who conceived the idea
of .leading all the forces of Christendom against
the infidels, and of driving them out of the Holy
Land by violence, was sufficient to give a beginning
to that wild enterprise. Peter the Hermit, for that
was the name of this martial apostle, ran from
province to province, with a crucifix in his hand, ex-
citing princes and people to this holy war, and
wherever he came he kindled the same enthusiastic
ardour for it with which he himself was animated.
The council of Placentia, where upwards of thirty
thousand persons were assembled, pronounced the
scheme to have been suggested by the immediate
inspiration of Heaven. In the council of Clermont,
still more numerous, as soon as the measure was pro-
posed, all cried out with one voice, " It is the will of
God I " Persons of all ranks caught the contagion ;
not only the gallant nobles of that age, with their
martial followers, whom we may suppose apt to be
allured· by the boldness of a romantic enterprise, but
men in more humble and pacific stations in life, ec-
clesiastics of every order, and even women and
children, engaged with emulation in an undertaking
which was deemed meritorious and even sacred.
If we may believe the concurring testimony of con-
temporary authors, six millions of persons assumed
the cross, which was the badge that distinguished such
as devoted themselves to this holy warfare. All
Europe, says the Princess Anna Comnena, torn up
from the ·foundation, seemed ready to precipitate
itself in one united body upon Asia. Nor did the
fumes of this enthusiastic zeal evaporate at once :
the frenzy was as lasting as it was extravagant. Du-
ring two centuries Europe seems to have had no ob-
ject but to recover, or keep possession, of the Holy
F
66 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
Land, and through that period vast armies continued
to march thither.
As Constantinople was the place of rendezvous for
all the armies of the crusaders, this brought together
the people of the East and West as to one great in-
terview; and several·authors, witnesses ofthis singular
congress of people, formerly strangers, describe with
simplicity and candour the impression which that new
spectacle made upon their own minds.
The first efforts of valour, animated by enthusiasm,
were irresistible ; part of the Lesser Asia, all Syria, and
Palestine, were wrested from the infidels ; the banner
of the cross was displayed on Mount Sion ; Constan-
tinople, the capital of the Christian empire in the
East, was afterwards seized by a body of those adven-
turers who had taken arms against the Mahometans:
and an Earl of Flanders and his descendants kept
possession of the imperial throne during half a cen-
tury. But, though the first impression of the cru-
saders was so unexpected that they made their con-
quests with comparative ease, they found infinite
difficulty in preserving them. Establishments so
distant from Europe, surrounded by warlike nations
animated with fanatical zeal scarcely inferior to that
of the crusaders themselves, were perpetually in dan-
ger of being overturned. Before the expiration of the
thirteenth century the Christians were driven out of
all their Asiatic possessions, in acquiring of which
incredible numbers of men had perished, and immense
sums of money had been wasted. The only common
enterprise in which the European nations ever en-
gaged, and which they all undertook with equal
ardour, remains a singular monument of human folly.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 67
CHAPTER V. '-
HINDOO AND OTBtU• ORIENTAL 8UPEASTITION8.
Groes Superstition ofthe Hindoo Religion-The Bramin1 and their
Privileges--Immolation of Widows--Ceremoniee and fanatieal
Sacrifices at Jaggernaut-Pilgrimages to Hurdwar-~red Ch&o
racter of the Waters of the Ga.nges--Follies committed by Hia-
doo Devotees-Tortures which they inflict on themselves-A
Youth induced to sacrifice himself to Bhyroo by a suppoaed
Vision-Mutilatiou to propitiate the Godden Kali-Ghat-.Wild
Superstitions oftbe Malays-Spirits in which the Malays believe
-Pontianaks-Tuju Jindang-The Polong-Mode of exer-
cising the Polong-The Penangalam-Charms to obtain Re-
venge on Enemies-The Tuju and the Tuju Jantong-The
Panaw, a Charm of the Mahometan Malays-Desperate Conduct
of a Man who wore a Panaw-Incantations of the Shamana,
or Priests, in Siberia..
Tux religion of India has, from time immemorial,
been based on the grossest superstition, and has never
varied in its character. The unchangeable nature of
this, like all the other Indian institutions, is to be
ascribed to ~he division of the people into castes, and
the penalties of excommunication, attached to the loss
of caste, rendering each extremely cautious of for-
feiting its privileges.
The Brahmins, or order of priests, exerted an ex-
traordinary influence on all the other castes ; and so
conscious were they of their own pre-eminence both in
rank and sanctity, that they deemed it degradation
and ,pollution to eat of the same food with their
sovereign. Their persons were sacred, and even for
the most heinous crimes they could not be capitally
punished; their blood was never to be shed; and in
some accounts preserved in India, princes are men-
tioned, who, having violated the privileges of the
·castes, and disregarded the remonstrances of the
I!' 2
68 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
Brahmins, were deposed by their authority, and put
to death.
The descriptions given by Alexander's officers, fwo
thousand years since, exactly• delineate customs now
prevalent in India; namely, that the inhabitants, for
the most part, lived on vegetable food, and that the
widows burned themselves on the funeral piles .of
their husbands ; and many other particulars equally
accordant. Numerous attempts have been made to
abolish, or at least check, the horrid custom of burn-
ing widows alive, and in some instances the intended
victims have been saved; the interference of the
priests has doubtless been less direct and efficacious
when under the eye of the English authorities, but in
a multitude of cases they have goaded the widow to
self-immolation by the promises of eternal happiness
hereafter, bv the refusal of which she was also warned
that she would doom herself to the contempt and neg-
lect of all her former associates.
One of the most celebrated of the Hindoo shrines
is that at Jaggemaut, to which an immense throng of
pilgrims resort, at the time of the annual festival, in
honour of the deity to whom the temple is conse-
crated, in some years to the number of more than one
hundred and fifty thousand. The Ruth Jatra, or
riding of the gods, is at once cruel and indecent.
Their carriage, of immense height and size, supported
on sixteen wheels, is drawn along by thousands of fa-
natics, many of whom fall down voluntarily befo~e its
·wheels, and are crushed to death; thus instantly, as
they believe, entering a blessed immortality.
Through all parts of India the waters of the
Ganges are considered sacred, and Hurdwar, the
spot where its stream first issues from the mountains
into the plains, is particularly sacred ; and every year
at the full of the moon of April, but more especially
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 69
every twelfth year, an immense concourse of people
assemble near it for the purpose of ablution. in the
holy stream. The year 1783 was one of the twelfth
years, deemed peculiarly propitious, and the body of
pilgrims collected was unusually great, amounting, as
was supposed, to between one and two millions. The
custom of the pilgrims is to repair to the bed of the
river, where they pass the night with little or no
shelter, though the temperature is variable. From
such exposure, and the privations attendant on such
multitudes collected together, a species of cholera
broke out, which in less than eight days cut off above
twenty thousand victims.
Many thousands of people are employed in carrying
the water of the Ganges, at Hurdwar, to princes and
persons of distinction in all parts of India, and it is
drunk at feasts as well as on religious occasions.
When a sick person's life is despaired of, he is carried
to the bank of this sacred stream, exposed to storm
or sun, his mouth, nose, and ears closely stuffed with
mud, and thus suffocated.
More individual cases of absurd and disgusting
fanaticism occur in the Hindoo religion than, pro·
bably, in all the other religions in the world. The
number and rigour of the mortifications, the excru-
ciating penances which these Indian devotees volun-
tarily undergo, and the high opinion which the people
entertain of their sanctity, have struck all travellers
who have visited India. In making a pilgrimage to
Hurdwar, one zealous devotee performed a journey of
some hundred miles, prostrating himself, and mea-
suring every inch of the way, with his body, as he
advanced ; some will remain so long in one position as
to be incapable of moving their limbs ever.after. At
~he annual ceremonies which take place, all over In-
70 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
dia, numbers swing themselves on arope by means of a
book passed through the niuscles of the back, continu-
ing this exercise for a long time. Some, having erected
poles to form a sort of gibbet over a pit, wherein they
have lighted a fire, ascend the poles, after many cere-
monies ; then, twisting ropes about the feet, suspend
themselves with their head downwards, their face
towards the flame, and thus swing themselves up and
down, like a bell, increasing the fire by throwing wood
into it, placed within theirreach ; this they keep up for
half-an-hour together, at each time swinging directly
over the flames. It would be almost impossible to
conceive the 'tortures which these maniacs inflict on
themselves, from a mistaken principle of religion
conjoined with pride ; as they are the more esteemed
in proportion to the austerities and tortures they
-endure.
A striking instance of the fanaticism which inspires
the votaries of the Hindoo deities was exhibited about
ten years ago, at the annual fair of Ooncar, near the
river Nerbuddah. A youth, not more than twenty
years of age, came from Ougein, to devote himself at
the shrine of Bhyroo, by leaping from a rock which
impends over the Nerbuddah. He stated as the
cause of his resolution that, six weeks previously to
his visiting Ooncar, while he was sleeping near a
temple in the neighbourhood of Ougein, a smart blow
on the shoulder awoke him ; he looked round, and saw
a cocoa-nut, a knife, and a looking-glass. Casting
his eye on the glass, he became conscious of the pre-
sence of Bhyroo, who commanded him to sacrifice
himself at Ooncar, and told him that this was the last
time he would be called upon. In obedience to this
mandate, the deluded victim proceeded to the fatal
spot. Some of the East India Company's officers en-
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 71
deavoured to dissuade him from his purpose, but he
was deaf to their arguments, even though they were
backed by an offer of a provision for life. So deter-
mined was be to immolate himself, that, fearing force
would be used to preven~ him, he ~eclared that he
would destroy himself with a knife, which he con-
stantly carried about him.
On the morning which he had fixed upon for this
suicidal act, he went early to the temple of Bhyroo,
where the deity is typified by a hugll stone, daubed
with red paint. Here he went thrOllgh the usual
ceremonies, and made an offering of money. Another
attempt was now made to prevail on him to desist.
But all intreaties were unavailing. With a firm and
rapid step, and an unaltered countenance, he pro-
ceeded to the summit of the rock. ~tanding on the
brink of the precipice, he made a few wild gestures to
the crowd below, and· then threw down the knife, the
cocoa-nut, and the glass. Having done this, he drew
back a few paces, rushed forward, and sprang into the
air. In a moment his lifeless and shattered remains
were stretched at the foot of the.rock.
· Nearly at the same time, another sacrifice to the
sam.e sanguinary deity was voluntarily made, at By-
rooghur, near Ougein. But;in this instance, the
mode adopted was different ; as the infatuated being
chose to bury himself alive.
Mutilation, in order to propitiate the goddess Kali-
Ghat, is no uncommon occurrence; ·though the
practice has somewhat diminished of late years. The
little finger is the customary offering to this amiable
deity ; but, a few years since, a Hindoo, ambitious
to obtain the superiority over his less courageous
brethren, cut out his tongue with a knife before the
altar of the goddess.
72 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
The superstitions of the Malays are of a wild, fe-
rocious, and sanguinary character, in unison with that
of the Malays themselves. That, filled as they are
with ungovernable passions, they should be -firm be-
lievers in the existence of malignant spirits, cannot be
a matter of wonder. Two or three specimens of
these demons may not be unamusing.
The spirits called Pontianaks are supposed to be
the children of people born after death. The shape
which they assume is usually that of a bird ; some-
times white, a' other times marked like a magpie ;
but in Java always entirely black. Hair, not feathers,
forms th~ir covering. They have the power of as-
suming the shapes of animals, and even of man ; and
often by this means entrap their unsuspecting victims.
Each Pontianak has two servant~, an owl and a species
of caterpillar, which they send on their ungodly er-
rands. A moon-light night is the time which the
Pontianak chooses for its mischievous excursions.
It then pursues men who are walking alone, and kills
young children, and sucks their blood : women, how-
ever, it never molests. To hurt or catch them is
nearly impossible ; but a man is said to have once ob-
tained, by some means or other, a single hair of one
of them, his possessionof which compelled the spirit to
bring him as much gold as he wanted. The cunning
.fiend contrived to get back the hair, and the gold which
he had given to the man immediately disappeared.
Another Malay demon is the Tuju Jindang, which
is made subservient to Malay revenge. This minia-
ture fiend takes the form of a silk-worm, is reared in
a new vessel, and fed upon roasted paddy. When
any one wishes to injure his enemy, he performs the
needful mysteries, and says to the creature, " go and
eat the heart and entrails of such an one." The in-
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 73
seet then flies on its mission. It usually effects an
entrance into its victim on the back of the hand, or
between the shoulders, and the spot turns blue. No-
thing is visible when it first strikes, and the feeling
which it causes is merely like the touch of ·a bird
flying against a man. It soon, however, inflicts the
fiercest torments on the sufferer, gradually eats out
his internal parts, and the body becomes blue all over.
Having accomplished its work of mischief, it returns
to its keeper, to wait for another task.
Two fiends of a similar nature are described by a
writer in the Indo-Chinese Gleaner ; they are deno-
minated the Polong and the Panangalam. With res-
pect to the Polong, the Malays say that it is conveyed
down from parents to children. According to their
own laws it is death to keep one. It is believed to be
invisible, and is kept in a small earthen bottle with a
neck, and a hole large enough to admit a finger. Hu-
man blood is its food. About once or twice a-week, on
the night of either Monday or Friday, the keeper cuts
the tip of his finger, puts it into the vessel, and lets
the Polong suck his fill. It is rather dangerous to
neglect doing this; for, in such a case, the Polong
issues from his concealment, and indemnifies himself
_ for his fast by sucking the body till the skin becomes
black and blue all over. The fiend is generally kept
by females, seldom by males. Women have, indeed,.
a strong temptation to harbour him ; for he has the
valuable property of making his possessor, even
thongh she be ugliness itself, seem surprisingly beau-
tiful in the eyes of all who behold her.
When the keeper of the Polong, or his friend, or
the person who bribes him, is desirous of tormenting
an enemy, the spirit is let loose upon the object.
" The marks of possession are many. As soon as
74 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
the Polong enters the man, he first falls down scream-
ing, unconscious to himself and to everything about
him ; sometimes he becomes speechless and like a
dead man ; sometimes there is no appearance of ail-
ment, but his conversation is incoherent; sometimes
he falls to beating all about him. Sometimes, as soon
as he enters into any one, the person possessed dies.
The Polong always adheres exactly to his orders, and
inflicts that punishment which is commanded him.
Sometimes, though but seldom, it proves infectious,
viz., in the following way, when the possessed falls
down in a fit, and another asks him saying, 'What !
what is the matter? what, have you got a Polong? '
Tile person asking is affected, falls down insensible,
and remains in the same state with the other till the
Polong is expelled. A person seriously assured the
writer that he had seen men and women, to the
number of twenty, thus affected at the same time.
"The people are so well acquainted with the power
of .this Polong, that as soon as they see any one suf-
fering they send immediately for the physician, an
adept in the occult sciences, who with an air of im-
portance and learning, administers some medicine, or
more frequently makes use of a charm. He draws
a fantastical figure, which, as he pretends, is that of
the demon, upon the inside of a white bason, pours
water into it, and gives the sufferer to drink. Then
he takes hold of the thumb (for fear the Polong
should make his escape, that being the door by which
he enters the body), and interrogates the man in the
following manner. ' Why do you torment him?'
Then the Polong, speaking through the man, replies,
'Myfather (for so he calls his keeper) has a grudge
against him,' &c.-' Who is your father?' '--.'
' What has he told you to do?'-' To eat heart and
DECEPTION,. AND CREDULITY. 75
entrails' (this is a general term for torment). Some-
times the evil spirit braves all means, and refuses to
speak; sometimes·he tells lies, and confesses another
name. When the soothsayer ha8 prevailed against
the evil spirit, and has heard his confession, he then
tries to detect him (though a spirit, he has yet dimen-
sions and shape); he feels the body all over, for he
lurks between skin and flesh. Sometimes he finds
him in an arm, sometimes behind the ear, Now for
his expulsion. The soothsayer first exacts an oath of
him that he has spoken nothing but truth, and also
that he will never come again. Sometimes the phy-
sician has such power that he sends him.back to tor-
ment his own keeper.'' ·
The Penangalam is an anomalous being, corporeal
in its texture, yet possessed of supernatural powers.
The literal meaning of its name is, "that which is
pulled out." It is supposed to· consist of a human
head, neck, and intestines, joined to the trunk and
limbs of a human body, which it can detach itself
from, and return to, at pleasure. It is always in
women that this demon dwells, and she by whom it is
inhabited is supposed to be a friend of the devil, a
witch, and by no means gifted with a love of chastity.
Th!! delight of the spirit is, when unobserved, to
leave the trunk and legs behind, roam through the
air, prey upon all manner of garbage, which is its
favourite food, and suck the blood of those who have
given it offence.
Among the superstitious practices by which the
Malays strive to destroy their enemies are the Tuju,
and the Tuju Jantong. The first of these words sig-
nifies "to point," and refers to the mode which is
employed to perpetrate the mischief. The perpetrator
makes, with certain mysterious ceremonies, a kind of
16 SKETCHES OJ!' IMPOSTURE,
dagger, and recites over it a prayer. He then takes
hold of the handle of the dagger, and thrusts towards
the place where his enemy lives, as though he were
stabbing an antagonist. As soon as this is done his
enemy becomes sick, and blood appears on the point
of the dagger, which he sucks, exclaiming, "Now I
am satisfied." The victim is finally rendered speech-
less and dies.
The other superstition takes its name from the
heart-shaped top of a newly opened-branch of plan-
tains, which bears the name of Jantong. He who
seeks for revenge looks for a newly opened plantain
top, performs under it the appropriate mystery, ties
the·plantain, recites a prayer, and burns the point.
The fire which consumes the plantain acts magically
on the heart of the adversary, who consequently
undergoes intolerable torture. When the avenger
has satiated his revenge by keeping his foe a sufficient
time in agony, he cuts the plantain, the h~art of the
devoted object falls down into his body, and he dies,
with the blood gushing from his mouth.
Men who imagine themselves to be exposed to such
attacks naturally endeavour to ward them off by coun-
ter-charms. Among these charms is one called the
Panaw, which is implicitly confided in by the Malayan
Mahometans. Panaw is the name given to light-
coloured blotches on the skin of the orientals ; and
the charm in question, which is in the form of a roll,
and on paper, pretends to contain a representation of
such blotches on the body of Mahomet. They may
be had of all prices, from one to twenty dollars, ac-
cording to the portion of good fortune which they
ensure to the purchasers.
About ten years ago, a Panaw was found on the
body of a Malay, who had attempted to murder two
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. '17
persons. It was about four yards long, and two
inches and a half broad, and was enclosed in a cloth
case, to tie upon some part of the bo<ly. It contained
many painted squares, representing the blotches of
Mahomet, and was surmounted with rude figures of
the temple of Mecca, the double.bladed sword of Ali,
and other similar emblems of Islamism. Alternately
with the painted squares were inscribed eighteen
written paragraphs, promising to the wearer blessings
of every kind in the utmost profusion. The cost of
this scroll was eight dollars, and certainly never
were the most important benefits sold at a cheaper
rate. Of these benefits, a small specimen will per-
haps be enough to satisfy the reader. "This," says
the scroll, "is a Panaw of the superiority of the
Apostle of God, peace be upon him! whoever looks
at this Panaw of his superiority morning and evening,
verily he will be beloved by all men, both high and ,
low, and will be for ever happy, and his enemies will
not be suffered to injure him; and God will finally
take him to heaven without account. God is omni-
scient."
The man on whom this curious roll was found was
a Malay .merchant, Malim Dubalong by name, who
had gained the appellation of Malim by his strict
observance of all devotional exercises. Being accused
of having robbed his guest to the amount of a thou-
sand rupees, he was ordered to find bail. He was
allowed to go home, but, it being discovered that he
was preparing to abscond, he was again ordered to be
brought before the magistrate. Determined to take
vengeance, he wrapped his naked kris or dagger in a
handkerchief, concealed his kurumbi, a semicircular
knife, under his head. dress, went to the river to wash,
pray, and recite his incantations, and then bound his
78 SKETCHES 017 IMPOSTURE,
roll of charms upon his arm. As this roll promised
that, if the bearer looked at it night and morning,
"none of his enemies would be permitted to injure
him," he probably tlatter~d himself that he would be
able to accomplish his purpose without danger. He
was, however, mistaken. As he was descending the
stairs, at the magistrate's house, he suddenly fell on
his accuser, and gave him, as he thought, a mortal
stab with his kris. He then rushed up stairs again,
and furiously assailed the magistrate. A severe
struggle ensued, the assassin and the magistrate grap-
pled each other, and, thus twined together, they rolled
down s.tairs. Malim was immediately killed by the
se"ants, whom the noise of the scutBe had brought
to the spot; the magistrate escaped with only a few flesh
wounds.
To give even the slightest sketch of the multifarious
superstitions which exist in Asia would require a
volume, instead of the few remaining pages of a
chapter. One instance more must suffice. It is
curious, not only as relating to tribes of which com-
paratively little is known, but also in consequence of
the rite bearing, in some points, a striking resem-
blance to that of the Scape-goat of the Mosaic
economy. The religion of various Siberian tribes is
known by the name of Shamanism, its priests being
called Shamans. Its sole object seems to be to pro-
cure temporal good or avert temporal evil. The cere-
mony in question, which is termed "the letting_
loose of
the goat," was witnessed by Mr. Swan, amissionary
at Selenginsk, in Siberia, in company with three of
his assistants. "There were,'' says he, "two Shamans,
men,-present, or, as they are called, Boo, and two
female Shamans or Odagan. A young man was sit-
ting by the wall of the tent dressing the goat, that
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 79
is, fastening Uttle brass rings, corals, and other orna-
ments, to ·its legs, neck, ear11, &c. This occupied
upwards of half an hour; two or three lighted lamps
were placed on a table, at the west side of the tent,
before the sheep-skin images. Before the table were
placed the two Shaman sticks, called horses, being
ornamented with the figure of a horse's head on the
top, and hung round with a number of iron rings and
fiat slips of the same metal, which make a tinkling
noise when the stick is moved. A sword was stuck
into the ground beside them•.
" The younger Shaman began the service by play-
-ing ou a Jew's harp, the instrument the Shamans
use to invoke the objects of their worship, and, as
they say, to bring their minds into a: fit state to hold
intercourse with them. The harp was then handed to
one of the Odagans, who began to play in the same
strain. In the mean time the younger Shaman rose,
laid aside his girdle, and hung a circular plate of
brass round his neck. He then tumed towards the
table where the lamps were burning, and taking a
taper in his hand, and waving it with a slow con-
tinaed motion over the table, began to mutter, in a
low tone, a kind of prayer or incantation. T)lis was
in the Mongoliiln language, but pronounced so indis-
tinctly, that I could not understand a single word.
This lasted fifteen or twenty minutes, and then seizing
the two sticks, one in each hand, holding also the
sword in his left hand, with its point to the ground,
he tumed towards the fire in the middle of the tent,
.muttering all the while his invocations. A wooden
cup Wl!-8 then given him, and a man stood by with a ves-
sel containing some milk. The milk was poured, in
small portions, into the cup, and the Shaman threw
the first part into the fire, then repeated portions out
..
80 iKRTCHEB OF lMl'OBTURE,
of the hole in the tent, towards the east, west, south,
and north. The Shaman then began to utter words
in a louder tone, and to use more violent gesticulations.
His whole frame became agitated, and after reeling
about the tent for some time, he sat down in his place.
" The old Shaman, who was quite blind, and appa-
rently very infirm, then rose, took the two sticks
(omitting the sword) and began his prayers; at first
his voice was low, and his motions were gentle, but as
he continued to strike the ground with his two
rattling sticks, he gradually became more active, and
began to make strange noises, hissing like a cat, and
growling like an angry dog; his legs then began to
tremble, his whole body shook violently, and at last
he began to jump with an agility and force which
I did not think so feeble a man was capable of. This
exertion lasted till he was quite exhausted, and he
sank down ·upon the floor.
" The other Shaman rose a second time, and took
his two sticks and sword. The· people, who were
crowded all round the tent, now drew back as far as
possible, and the wooden posts, which partly supported
the roof of the tent, were removed to allow more space
for going round the fire. The man appeared now
wrought up to a higher ecstacy: he walked, or rather
staggered, round the fire, leaning on the two sticks,
and now and then jumping violently, and, to appear-
ance, unconscious of the presence of any one. In the
midst of these feats, he threw off his boots, and began
to rake out the burning cinders from the fire with his
hands, and spread them by the side of the fire-place.
He took up a piece of live charcoal, and held it for
some time in his hand, but, as I could perceive;in a
way that could not burn him. Next he began to
dance upon the glowing embers with his naked feet,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 81
but neither did this seem very extraordinary, for the
quickness of'the motion soon scattered the ashes, so
that he could not be burnt.
" The last part of the farce, for such I consider it
to be, was his laying down the two sticks, and reeling
about with the sword in his hand, setting the point of
it first against his side, and then !lgainst his breast:
~e had staggered towards the door, and placing the
hilt of the sword against the wall, with the point of it
to his breast, leaned and pushed against it, as if he
had been forcing it into his body; at last it seemed
to go in, and he writhed and twisted his body, as if
he had been really pierced through, and was making
efforts to draw the weapon out. To assist him in
this, he went towards the young man, who had been
all this while holding the goat ; and the lad, taking
hold of the handle of the sword, drew it with all his
might. I observed, however, that the· Shaman was
holding it by the blade, and, after various struggles
and contortions, he let it slip through his fingers, and
so it seemed to be extracted from his body with a
jerk. All this was performed with his back to
the people present, and not one of them could see
whether the sword entered the body or not ; but I am
pe~uaded the whole was mere trick; and Gendang,
my writer, did not scruple openly to say so before
them all, and taking the sword went through the
whole ceremony of stabbing himself in the way of fun.
This produced nothing but a smile from the spec·
tators ; and during the whole performances the people
continued talking, laughing, and smoking their pipes
with the greatest indifference.
" The old Shaman again rose, and went through
his part much in the same way as before, but not so
violently; sometimes he suddenly stopped, and turn•
G
82 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
ing round his blind eyes as if he wished to see some-
thing, mentioned a number of names, and inquired if
such and such a one was well and happy. The other
Shaman replied in a low voice, 'well.' Then were
pronounced the names of their dead friends, and the
old man pretended to see and converse with the spirits
who had the charge of them in·the invisible state.
" All these ceremonies were only preparatory to tht.>
letting loose of the goat ; and now they began to talk
of getting a horse provided for ' the fit man,' by
whom the goat was to be sent away into the wilder-
ness. Two other men were to go along with him,
and the place to which the animal was to be taken
was several versts distant, where there were no tents.
On some occasions, they told me, the Shaman strikes
the goat with a sword, but they never kill it, and
after it is, let loose they never inquire after it; nor is
it ever more seen, as no doubt it soon becomes the
prey of the wolves.
" I wished to wait till the whole was concluded, but
I understood that the Shamans were to repeat their
tricks till day-break, and not till then was the animal
to be sent away. I therefore returned home with my
companions, not a little struck with these- singular
ceremonies. I could not learn that these Shamans
had any reference to the expiation of sin in this ser-
vice, nor that this scape-goat was considered aa
bearing away their iniquities. :r'heir view of it rather
is, that it is an offering very acceptable to the Ongoon,
or spirits they worship-renders them propitious,
and procures blessings upon their cattle and all their
undertakings."
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 83
CHAPTER VI.
ROYAL IMPOSTOR.B.
Pretenden to Royalty numerous-Contest between tbe Houses of
York and Lancaster gives rise to various Pretenders-Insur-
rection of Jack Cade-He is killed-Lambert Simnel is tutored
to personate the Earl of Warwick.-He ia crowned at Dublin,
He is taken Prisoner, pardoned, and made Scullion in the Royal
Kitchen-Perkin Warbeck pretends to be the murdered Duke
of York-He is countenanced by the King of France-He is
acknowledged by the Duchess of Burgundy-Perkin lands in
Scotland, and is aided by King James-He is married to Lady
Catherine Gordon-He invades England, but fails-His Death
-Pretenders in Portugal-Gabriel de Spinosa-He i• hanged-
The Son of a Tiler.pretends to he Sebastian-He is sent to the
Gallie-Gon~alo Alvarez succeeds him-He is executed-
An Individual oftalentaassumes the CharacterofSebastian-His
extraordinary Behaviour in his Examinations--He is given up to
the Spaniards-His Sufferings and dignified Deportment-His
Fate not known-Pretenders in Russi,.__The first false Deme-
trius--He obtains thA Throne, but is driven from it by Insurrec-
tion, and is slain-Other Impostors assume the same Name-
Revolt of Pugatscheff.-Pretenders il! France-Hervegault and
Bruneau assume the Character of the deceased Louis XVII.
THE seductions presented by. a throne, and some
circumstances which seemed to give a chance of suc-
cess, have, in various ages and countries, stimulated
individuals to personate the descendants of sovereigns,
and, in some instances, deceased sovereigns them-
selves. To mention all of them, even briefly, within
the narrow limits of a chapter would be impossible;
and, therefore, passing over the false Smerdis, the
Alexanders, and others of ancient times, we will se•
lect a few specimens from modern history.
During the reigns of Henry the Sixth and Seventh,
infinite carnage and misery were caused by the contest
between the houses of York and Lancaster. That
contest also gave rise to several remarkable im-
G2
84 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
postures on the part of the Yorkists. The Duke of
York, in the time of Henry the Sixth, animated one
Jack Cade, a native of Ireland, to personate Mor-
timer, and, in consequence ·.of this, a formidable
insurrection actually burst out in Kent during the
Whitsuntide week. On the first mention of the popu·
lar name of Mortimer, the common people of that
county, to the number of twenty thousand, flocked to
Cade's standard. He marshalled the vast multitude
that followed him, and marched to Blackheath, and,
shortly after, to London.· Having served in ·the
French wars, he was enabled to encamp them with
some military skill. He presented two petitions to
the King, in the name of the people, and his de-
mands, not in themselves unreasonable, were sup-
ported even by some of the King's friends. In spite
of his attempts to maintain discipline, some of his fol-
lowers pillaged a few houses in London, and thus
alarmed the city, which at first had favoured him.
The citizens consequently rose against him, and a
sharp conflict ensued, which terminated to· his dis-
advantage. A pardon being offered to his men, they
accepted it, and immediately dispersed. He himself
took horse, and fled towards Lewes, in Sussex ; but he
was overtaken, and discovered in a garden, by an
esquire, named Alexander [den, who slew him after a
desperate combat.
The discontentment of the Yorkists against the
Hoi,\Se of Lancaster shewed itself more remarkably
during the ·reign of Henry the Seventh, whose in-
creasing J.lllpopularity, about the year 1486, induced
the opposite party to attempt some singular impos-
tures, and set up pretenders to the crown.
The first fictitious prince was introduced to the
world, by one Richard Simon, a priest, possessed of
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 85
subtilty and enterprise. The youth was in reality
one Lambert Simnel; the son of a baker ; endowed
with understanding above his years, and address above
his condition, he seemed well fitted to personate a
prince of royal extraction.
A report had been spread, and received with great
avidity, that Richard, Duke of York, second son to
Edward the Fourth, had secretly eseaped from con-
finement, saved himself from the cruelty of his uncle,
and lay concealed somewhere in England. Taking
advantage of that rumour, Simon had at first in-
structed his pupil to ass~me that name ; but hearing
afterwards that Edward Plantagenet, Earl of Warwick,
was reported to have made his escape from the Tower,
he changed the plan of his imposture, that Simnel
might personate that unfortunate prince.
From his be~g better informed of circumstances
relating to the royal family, particularly of the Earl
of Warwick's adventures, than he could be supposed
to have learned from one of Simon's condition, it was
conjectured that persona of higher rank, partisans of
the House of York, had laid the plan of the conspi-
racy, and had conveyed proper instructions to the
actors.
The first scene opened iti Ireland,a countryzealously
attached to the House of York. No sooner did Sim-
nel present himself to Thomas Fitzgerald, Earl of
Kildare, and· claim his protection as the unfortunate
Warwick, than the credulous nobleman, not suspect-
ing so bold an imposture, paid him great attention,
and consulted some persons of rank on a matter so
extraordinary.
These parties were more sanguine in belief than
even himself, and in proportion to the circulation of
the story, it became the object of greater enthusiasm
imd credulity, till the people of Dublin with one con-
86 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
sent, tendered their allegiance to Simnel as the true
Plantagenet.
Simnel was lodged in the castle of Dublin, and was
crowned with a diadem taken from the statue of the
Virgin, and publicly proclaimed king by the appella-
tion of Edward the Sixth. ·
In order to prove the imposture of Simnel, Henry
the Seventh ordered that Warwick should be taken
from the Tower, led in procession through the streets
of London, conducted to St. Paul's, and exposed to
the view of the whole people. This expedient put a
stop to the credulity of the English ; but in Ireland
the pt>ople still persisted in their revolt, and even re-
torted on the king the reproach of propagating an
imposture, and of having shewn to the populace a
counterfeit Warwick._
Simnel landed in England and opposed the king in
battle ; but his faction having been routed, he was
soon·reduced to his original insignificance. He was
pardoned by tlie king, was made a scullion in the
royal kitchen, and was subsequently raised to the
rank of a falconer.
Notwithstanding the failure of Lambert Simnel,
a second attempt was, Rix years aftenyards, made
to disturbthe government; it introduced one of the
most mysterious personages recorded in English his-
tory.
The Duchess of Burgundy, it seems, full of resent-
ment at Henry the Seventh, propagated a report that
her nephew, Richard Pla11tagenet, Duke of York, had
escaped from the Tower. To personate the duke, a
youth, named Perkin Warbeck, was discovereil, fit for
her purpose. He is asserted to have been the son of
one Osbeck or Warbeck, a renegado Jew of Tournay.
This Jew had been to London in the reign of Edward
the Fourth, and during his stay his wife brought him a
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 87
son : being in fa~our at court, he prev~iled with the
king to stand godfather to his son, though it was
hinted that there was, in reality, a much nearer con-
nexion between the King and the youth ; and by
this, people accounted for the resemblance which-
was afterwards remarked between young Perkin and
that monarch.
Having been well t~tored by the Duchess of Bur-
gundy, Perkin repaired to Ireland, which was chosen
as_ the proper place for his first appearance. He
landed at Cork, assuming the name of Richard, Duke
of York, son of Edward the Fourth, and drew around
him many partisans from among that credulous people.
The news soon reachedFrance; and Charles of France,
then on the point of war with Henry, sent Perkin an
invitation to repairto him, at Paris. On his arrival, he
was received with ·all the marks of regard due to the
Duke of York, as the rightful heir to the British
throne. Perkin, both by his deportment and person~l
qualities, supported the opinion which was spread
abroad of his royal'pedigree; and the whole kingdom
was full ofthe accomplishments, as well as the singular
adventures, of the young Plantagenet.
Wonders of this nature are commonly augmented
by distance. From France, the admiration and credu-
lity diffused t~emselves into England. Sir George
Neville, Sir George Taylor, and above one hundred
gentlemen more, went to Paris in order to offer their
services tp the supposed Duke of York, and to share
his fortunes. Alarmed by the pretender having gained
so powerful a friend, Henry the Seventh signed a
treaty of peace with Charles, who immediately ordered
the adventurer to retire from his dominions. Perkin
now solicited the protection of the Dowager Duchess
of BuJ:gundy. ~he gave him a warm reception, and
bestowed on bitn.the appellation of tbe White Rose of
88 SKBTCHES' 01!' IMPOSTURE,
England. This behaviour of hera induced numbers
to·give credence to his story, as it was thought im-
possible that the aunt could be mistaken as to the
personal identity of her nephew.
In consequence of the great communication between
the Low Countries and ·England, the English were
every day more prepossessed in favour of the impos-
tor. Disgusted with Henry's government, men of
the highest birth and quality began to turn their eyes
to the new claimant, and even opened a correspond-
ence with him.
Sir Robert Clifford, with others, went over to Bur-
gundy and'tendered to Perkin their services. Clifford
even wrote back to say that he knew perfectly the
person of Richard, Duke of York, and that this
young man was undoubtedly that prince himself.
The whole nation was in suspense, and a regular con-
spiracy was formed against the king's authority.
Henry shewed great ingenuity in detecting who
this wonderful person was that thus boldly advanced
pretensions to his crown. His spies insinuated them-
selves amongst the young man's friends, and bribed
his retainers and domestic servants--nay, sometimes
his confessor himself; and, in the end, the whole con-
spiracy was laid before him, and tnany of the chief
conspirators were condemned'and executed.
Perkin, however, continued at large, and made a
' descent on Kent, where he was repulsed. He then
returned to Flanders, whence he sailed to Cork, but
the Irish were no longer disposed to espouse his cause.
In Scotland, however, to which he next proceeded, he
was more fortunate. James, the monarch of that
country, recognized him as "the true prince," and
·not only gave to him in marriage a near relation,
Lady Catherine Gordon, but also took up al'IJis in his
behalf. But, failing in two incursions into England,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. R9
James grew tired of the contest, and consented to
treat with Henry. Either fearing that he might be
given up, or having received an intimation to with-
draw, Perkin quitted Scotland with four ships and
eighty followers, made a vain att;empt at Cork to ob-
tain aid from the Earl of Desmond, and finally landed
in Cornwall, the men of which county had recenily
been in rebellion. Six thousand Cornishmen joined
him, and at their head he assaulted Exeter, but was
defeated by the citizens. Finding that Henry, with
an overwhelming force, was now at band, his courage
failed him, and he took refuge in the sanctuary of
Beaulieu, in Hampshire. He gave himself up on a
promise of pardon, but was committed to the Tower.
He was subsequently executed, on a charge of having,
while imprisoned in the Tower, formed a treasonable
plan with the Earl of Warwick to effect their escape,
· and raise the standard of insurrection.
Pretenders to. royalty have not been of.uncommon.
·occurrence in other countries. In Portugal, the
doubts respeeting Sebastian having been really s\ain
at the-battle of Alcat;ar, gave rise to several attempts
to personate that chivalrous but rash monarch. Five
or six impostors succeeded each other ; of one claimant
to the name and title of the Portuguese sovereign,
however, the pretensions were-so plausibly or so truly
supported, that serious. doubts have been entertained
whether he was not "the true prince," and no " false
thief." " ·
Of the most conspicuous of these pretenders, the
first is said to hal"e been a pastry-cook of Madrigal,
Gabriel de Spinosa by name. He was tutored to act
his part by Father Michael de los Santos, an Au-
gustin friar, who had been chaplain to Don Sebastian.
The· friar had spoken so freely in Portugal against
the Spanish usurpation, that Philip of Spain removed
90 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
him out of the country, and made him confessor to a
convent of Nuns, at Madrigal. Donna.. Anna of
Austria, Philip's niece, was one of the inmates of this
convent. To this princess the friar introduced the
pretended Sebastian, who played his assnmed cha-
racter so well that she gave him some rich jewels to
raise money. While he was endeavouring to dispose
of these valuables privately at Madrid, he was appre·
hended as a thief. He declared his ·real profession,
and that the jewels belonged to Donna Anna, and he
would perhaps have been released, had not his plot
been betrayed by the intercepting of a letter, in which
he was addressed with the title of majesty. The
result was that he and the friar were hanged, and the
princess was removed to another convent, and rigor-
ously confined for the rest. of her life.
The pertinacious belief of the Portuguese, that
Sebastian would yet return, and their hatred of the
Spanish domination, soon encouraged.others to follow
the example of Spinosa. The son of a tiler at ·Alco-
bac;a, who, after leading a loose life, had turned
hermit, next came forward to personate the much-
desired monarch. He was accompanied·by two com-
panions, one of whom assumed the name of Don
Christopher de Tavora, and the other took the title
of the bishop of Guarda. They began to raise money,
and to collect partisans round them. Their career
was, however, cut short by the archduke, who caused
them to be apprehended. The pseudo Sebastian was
ignominiously paraded through the streets of Lisbon,
and then sent to the galleys for life; the self-appointed
bishop was sentenced to be hanged.
Undeterred by this failure, no long time elapsed
before another pretender started up, to supply the
place of the tiler's son. This was Gonc;alo Alvarez,
the son of a mason. His first act of royal power
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 91
was to give the title of Earl of Torres Novas to Pedro
Alonso, a rich yeoman, whose daughter he intended .
to marry. He succeeded in raising a body of eight
hundred men, and it was not until some blood had been
shed that he could be put down. He was hanged and
quartered at Lisbon, with his newly-created earl.
In spite of these examples, several new Sebastians
arose. Only one ofthem, however, deser,ves mention ;
but this one, if an impostor, was at least an extra-
ordinary character. It was at Venice that he made
his first appearance, about twenty years after the
l!attle of Alcal(&r. Of the manner in which he
escaped from the slaughter, and of all his subsequent
wanderings, he gave a minute and seemingly well
connected account. The Venetian senate, on com-
plaint being made to it, ordered him to depart. He
sought a refuge at Padua, but, being expelled from
that city by the governor, be returned to Venice.
The Spanish ambassador now called loudly for the
arrest of the supposed Sebastian. He accused him
not only of imposture, but also of many atrocious
crimes. The wanderer was in consequence seized,
and thrown into prison. The ordeal to which he was
subjected was no slight one. He underwent twenty-
eight examinations before a committee. of nobles ; and
he is said to have fully cleared himself· of all the
crimes attributed to him, and even to have given so
accurate a statement of the former transactions be-
tween himself and the republic as to excite the wonder
of his hearers. His apparent firmness, piety, and
.patience, also gained him many friends.
The senate refused to examine the charge of im-
posture, unless some allied prince or state would re-
quest such an investigation. The re.quest was- mad'e,
and a solemn inquiry was instituted. No decision,
however, followed; all that was done was to order
llK&TCHES 01!' IMPOSTURE,
the asserted Sebastian to quit the Venetian territories
in three days. He bent his course to Florence, where
he was arrested by order of the Grand Duke, who
delivered him up to the Count de Lemos, the viceroy
of Naples. The count died,some time after; and his
successor appears to have forgotten the claimant to
the Portuguese throne, who, for several years, suffered
the severest hardships, as a prisoner in the castle of
del' Ovo. It is probable that attention was at length
called to him by attempts to excite, at Lisbon, an in-
surrection in his behalf. Be this as it may, he was ·
brought out of his dungeon, led disgracefully through
the city, and proclaimed to be an impostor. On this
occasion, he did not belie his pretensions, nor display
any want of courage. Whenever the public officer
exclaimed, " this is the man who calls himself Sebas-
tian," he calmly said, "and Sebastian I am." When
the same individual declared him to be a Calabrian,
he exclaimed, "it is false." When the exposure of
him was over, he was shipped as a galley slave ; he
was next imprisoned at St. Lucar ; .and was subse-
quently removed to a castle in Castile. From that
moment his fate is buried in oblivion.
In Russia, the seductive hope of ascending a throne
has tempted various individuals to simulate deceased
princes, and to stake life on "the hazard of the die,"
for the chance of obtaining their object. One only,
with more ability and better fortune than the. rest,
succeeded in grasping for a short time the prize. On
the death of Feodor, son of Ivan the Terrible, the
throne was occupied by Boris Godunotf, who had
contrived to procure the murder of Demitri, or De-
metrius, the younger brother of Feodor. For a while
Boris governed wisely, and acquired much popn1;arity
with the multitude ; but it was not long before the
nobles began to plot against him ; the affections of the
nECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 93
'
populace were alienated, and universal confusion
ensued. This state of affairs was favourable to im·
posture, and an individual soon appeared who had
talents to tum it to his advantage. There was a
monk named Otrefief, who bore an almost miraculous
likeness to the murdered Demetrius. He was also
possessed of ·qualities well calculated to win the suf-
frage of the crowd ; for his figure was fine, his man-
ners prepossessing, and his eloquence forcible.
Relying on his personal likeness to the deceased
prince, the love which the people cherished for the
old royal stock, and the hatred to which they had
been roused against Boris, the hardy adventurer spread
al>road a report that he was Ivan, who bad been saved
from the assassins, by the substitution of another
youth in his place. Leaving this to work on the minds
of the Russians, he withdrew into Poland, vvhere his
arts, his eloquence, and his promises, soon gained
for him numerous allies. Sendomir, a wealthy and
powerful Boyard, promised him his daughter in mar-
riage whenever he should become czar ; and, through
the iniluence of Sendomir, the support of the king of
Poland was obtained. Boris denounced him, in pro-
clamations, as an'impostor, and sent spies to seize and
put him to death; but both were unavailing. The false
Demetrius advanced into Russia, in 1604, at the head
of a small army of Cossacks and Poles. Boris de-
spatched a much larger force to meet him, and a des-
perate battle ensued. The spirit-stirring language of
the pretender to his troops, and his own signal intre-
pidity, turned the seale of victory in his favour.
Numbers immediately espoused his cause; Boris
every day found his subjects and his troops deserting
him; and at length he poison~d himself in despair.
The victor entered Moscow, and was crowned there.
·Demetrius began hia reign in a manner which
94 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
seemed to promise that it would be lasting. He was
prudent, just, amiable, and accessible e.ven to his
poorest subjects. Butthe possessionof power seems to
have exercised on him its usual intoxicating influence.
His virtues vanished, and he began to excite disgust.
But the circumstances which most contributed to
· alienate from him the Russians were his impolitic
lavishing of honours upon the Poles, and his equally
impolitic contempt of the national religion. These
were two inexpiable offences in the eyes of those whom
he governed. A conspiracy was formed against him
by Prince Schnisky, the palace of the pseudo Deme-
trius was stormed, and he perished by the weapons of
the revolters.
Several other Demetriuses subsequently started up.
The first of these was a Polish schoolmaster, who,
with the help of the Poles, obtained possession of
Moscow; but he soon sunk into obscurity. The rest
were still less lucky ; some of them perished on
the gibbet. The last of the species app~tared in 1616,
and pretended to be the son of Demetrius. He was
seized and strangled, and with him terminated all
attempts to personate a prince of the race of Ivan the
Terrible.
A century and a half elapsed .before another adven-
turer of this kind was seen in Russia. His name was
Pugatscheff, and he was a coarse and ferocious speci-
men of impostor princes. He was a Don Cossack,
al}d had served against the Prussians and Turks. A
trifling circumstance was the cause of his aspiring to
a throne. He was sent with a despatch to a general,
whom he found surrounded by his staff officers. On
seeing Pugatscheff, all the officers at once e:&pressed
their surprise at the striking likeness which he bore
to the murdered Emperor Peter. •
This wss suilicient to awaken ambition in his mind.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 95
He deserted, and took refuge in Poland, where he
spent some time in acquiring the information which
was requisite for carrying his plan into effect. He
then entered Russia, spread his forged tale among the
Cossacks, and at length collected sufficient followers
to enable him to take the field. He began his opera-
tions in 1773, by seizing some fortresses in the
government of Orenbourg, swelled his numbers ex-
ceedingly, baftled the government forces, and, it is
thought, might have made himself master of Moscow ,
had he pushed boldly forward. Count Panin having
brought together a considerable army, succeeded in
driving him beyond the Ural mountains ; but, in spite
of every effort that was made against him, he contrived
to keep up a harassing warfare for more than twelve
months. It is probable that he might have held out
longer had he not disgusted even his partisans by his
acts of wanton and brutal cruelty. This, and the
temptation offered by a reward of a hundred thousand
roubles, illlluced some of his followers to betray him.
He was carried to Moscow in an iron cage, and was
executed there in January, 1775.
France, within the last forty years, bas had· no less
than three or four false dauphins ; one of whom, of
very recent date, was a German watchmaker. The
most conspicuous of them were, however, Jean Marie
Hervegault, and Maturin Bnineau. The former of
these was the son of a tailor, at St. Lo. The strong
resemblance of his features to those of Louis XVI.
was doubtless that which inspired him with the hope
of passing for the son of that monarch. He .had a
good address, much art, and a large stock of impu-
dence, and succeeded in making numerous proselytes,
even among .people of education and fortune. He
was several times imprisoned, but his blind admirer&
96 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
still persisted in paying him royal honours. He died
in the Bicetre in 1812. His successor, Maturin
Bruneau, had neither equal skill nor equal success
with Hervegault, yet he found a considerable number
of credulous dupes. His career was stopped in 1818,
by a sentence o£ seven years imprisonment, two years
of which were imposed for his daring insolence to the
court by which he was tried.
CHAPTER VII.
DI8GUISJI'.8 ASSUMED BY, OR IN BEHALF-oF, ROYAJ.TY.
Disguise ofAchilles-OfUlysses-OfCodruo-Fiction employedby
NumaPompiliuo-KingAlfred disguised intheSwineherd'sCottage
His Visit, as a Harper, to the Danish Camp-Richard Creur de
Lion takes the Garb ofa Pilgrim-He is discover.,J. and impri-
soned-Disguises and Escape of Mary, Queen ofScoto-Eacape
ef Charles the Second, after the Battle of Worcester-Of
l:ltanislaus from Dant:zick-Of Prince Charles Edward from
Scotland-Peter the Great takes the Dress of a Sbi.p Carpenter-
His Visit to England-Anecdote of his Conduct to a Dutch
Skipper-Stratagem of the Princess Ulrica of Prussia-Pleasant
Deception practised by Catherine the Second of Russia-Joan of
Arc-Her early Life-Discovers the King when first introduced
at Court--She compels the English to raise the Siege of Orleans
-Joan leads the King to be crowned at Rheims-Sho is taken
Prisoner-Base and barbarous Conduet of her Enemies- She ia
burned at Ronen-The i)evil of Woodstock-Anno)ing Pranks
played by it--Explanation of the Mystery-Fair Rosamond.
" UNEASY lies the head which wears a crown," are
the emphatic words of Shakspeare ; and that a penalty
of no light sorrow is often attached to the pomp and
grandeur of royalty, is a fact which receives confirma·
DECEPTION, AND CREDULI'IY. 97
tion from the earliest traditionary accounts we have
of the histories of kings and princes •.
To avoid the dangers inseparable from war; or,
during war, to overpower an enemy by guile, as well
as by force of arms; or, in political troubles, to seek a
temporary concealment; have been occasionally the
objects of men celebrated in after·times as heroes, and
as examples worthy and proper to be followed by such
as aimed at future conquest or greatness.
Thetis, knowing that her son Achilles was doomed
to perish, if be went to the Trojan war, privately sent
.him, it is said, to the court of Lycomedes, where be
was disguised in a female dress; but,·as Troy could
not be taken without him, Ulysses wept to the same
eourt in the habit of a merchant, and exposed jewels
and arms for sale. Achilles, neglecting the jewels,
generally more attractive to female eyes, and display~
ing a certain skill in handling the weapons, inadver•
tently -discovered his sex, and, challenged by Ulysses,
was obliged to go to the war, in which he ultimately
perished. The troth of this story cannot perhaps be
safely asserted, especially as the introduction of the
goddess Thetis is evidently poetical, but the tradition
of it and the two following are quoted, to show that
such impostures and concealments were not considered
cifrogatory to the courage or good conduct of the
greatest heroes of antiquity ; and it is also probable
• In Candide, or the Optimist, there is an admirable stroke of
Volta!re's; eight travellers meet in an obscure inn, and some of
them with not sufficient money to pay for a scurvy dinner. In .
the course of conversation theyare discoTered to be eight monarch•
in Europe, who had been deprived of their crowns. What gave
point to this satire was, that these eight monarchs were not the
-fictitious ·majesties of the poetiC' brain.; imperial shadows, like thoae
that appeared ·to Macbeth ; but living monarchs, who were wan-
tiering ~t that moment about .the world.
R
98 SKETCHES OP 'IMPOSTURE,
that·suqh facts, stripp.ed of their poetical dress, did
really take place.
· Ulysses had pretended to be ineane, that he might
not be obliged to leave his beloved Penelope ; and had
yoked a horse and bull together, ploughing the sea-
shore, where he sowed salt instead of corn. This dis-
simulation was discovered by Palauiedes, who placed ·
Telemachus, the infant son of Ulysses, before the
plough, and thus convinced the world that the father
was not mad ; as he turned the plough from the fur-
row, to avoid injuring his son. . .
Codrus, the last king of Athens, from a nobler
motive concealed his dignity, and saved his country,
by sacrificing his own life; for, when the Heraclidm
madP war against Athens, the Delphian oracle was
consulted about the event : the Pythoness declared,
that the Peloponnesians would be victorious, pro-
vided they did not kill the Athenian king. This re-
sponse being promulgated, Codrus, in the heroic spirit
of the age, determined to sacrifice his own life for the
benefit of his country. Disguising himself, therefore,
as a peasant, he went to the outpost of the enemy,
and, seeking an ·occasion to quarrel, he was killed.
When the real quality of the person slain became
knoWn., the Heraclidm, believing their fate sealed if
they remained, quickly retreated to their own count7.
Numa Pompilius, at the death of Romulus, was
unanimously elected king of Rome, and accepted the
office after the repeated and earnest solicitations of the
senate and people. Not, like Romulus, fond of war and
military expeditions, he applied himself to tame the
ferocity of his subjects, by inculcating a reverence
for the deity. He had the discretion to see that, if
he could bring them to the belief that he was aided by
higher powers, his own regulations would be better
•
r
l
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 99
attended to. He, therefore, encouraged the report
which was spread, of his paying regular visits to the
goddess~nymph Egeria ; and he made.use of her name
to give sanction to the laws and institutions, which he
had introduced, and he informed the Romans that the
safety of 'the empire depended upon the preservation
of the sacred ancyle, or shield, which it was generally
believed had dropped from heaven.
King Alfred, · during the unsettled times of the
Saxon heptarcby, is an example of a reverse of for..
tune successfully overcome by temporary disguise and
concealment. Striving with the Danes for the pos-
session of his own .country, he was worsted, and
compelled to provide for his safety_ by flying to a
small island in Somersetshire, in the midst of marshes.
This little oasis in the desert afterwards obtained the
name of Ethelingey, or Prince's Island. From a
swineherd who resided there the king received shelter,
and under his roof he remained for some months. It
happened one day tl}at the swain's wife placed some
loaves on the hearth to be baked. The king was at
the moment sitting by the fire, trimming hi!! arrows.
The woman, who was ignorant of his rank, said to
him," Ttirn thou those loaves, that they bum ·not;
for I know that thou art a great eater." Alfred,
whose thoughts and time were otherwise engaged,
neglected this injunction, and the good woman, find-
ing on her return the cakes all burnt, rated the king
very severely; upbraiding him that, though he was so
negligent in watching her warm cakes, he always
seemed very well pleased to eat them. Alfred, it is
said, subsequently munificently rewarded the peasant,
whose name was Denulf, recommended him to apply
himself to letters, and afterwards made him Bishop of
Winchester.
H 2,
00 SKETCHES Oli' IMPOSTURE,
Some fugitives of Alfred's party, at length, coming
to the same place, recognised him, and remained with
him, forming the nucleus of his future army. After
six months pas11ed in this retreat, he sought to sur~
pnse the main anny of the Northmen, which was still
encamped in Wiltshire. But, before striking any blow,
he resolved to inspect the camp of the enemy in per-
son. His early predilection for Saxon poetry and
music qualified him to assume another disguise, that
of a harper, and in this character he went _to the
Danish camp. His harp and singing excited notice ;
be was admitted to the king's table, heard his con-
versation with his generals,. and contemplated their
posi~ion unsuspected. He then returned to his own
troops in safety, and, taking advantage of his li:now-
ledge of the place, conducted them to the most un-
guarded quarter of the enemy's camp, who were soon
put •to flight with -great slaughter. This success
paved the way for his ultimately regaining his crown
and kingdom. Such is the stqry which has been
handed ~own to us by some writers ; but it was
unknown to Asser, the biographer and contemporary
of Alfred, and its truth is more than doubtful.
Richard Creur de Lion, at the close of .those chi-
valrous adventures which made his name so-renowned
in the crusades, having left the Holy Land, on his
way home, sailed to Corfu. On his arrival at that
island, he hired three coasting vessels to carry him
and his suite to Ragusa and Zara. Aware of the
danger to which he was exposed from the animosity
and machinations of his enemies, he concealed his
dignity under the name of Hugh the Merchant. The
beards and hair of Richard and his companions had
grown long- from neglect, and they wore the garments
of pilgrims. Driven by a storm on tl!e Istrian cbast,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 101
they landed between Venice and Aquileia, and pro-
ceeded toward Goritz, where it was necessary to
solicit_passports from the governor. He happened to
be Maynard, the nephew of that Conrad who was
stabbed in the streets of Tyre, and whose death was
maliciously ascribed to Richard. Richard had pur-
chased three rubies from a merchant at Pisa, and one
of them was fixed in a gold ring. Consulting his
native liberality, rather than remembering his as-
sumed character, Richard sent this ring as a pre•
sent to the governor, when he asked his protection.
Startled at the value of the gift, Maynard asked who
were the persons that wished for passports. He was
answered ·that they were pilgrims from Jerusalem;
but the man who sent the ring was Hugh the Mer..
chant. " This is not the gift of a merchant, but of a
prince," said he, still contemplat!ng the ring : "this
must·be King Richard;" and he returned a courteous
but evasive answer.
Richard felt that, in a country where he had so
many bitter_ enemies, suspicion was equivalent to dis-
covery, and that, if he remained, his safety was com-
promised. He quitted therefore his party, and by the
assistance of a German youth; as his guide, travelled
three days and nights without food. Pressed at last
by hunger, he rested near Vienna, where his enemy
the Duke of Austria then was; A second incautious
liberality again excited suspicion; and he was obliged
to remain in a cottage whilst the youth procured
necessaries for him. Richard supplied his messenger
with so much money, that the.ostentatious display of
it in the market by tile youth excited curiosity. On
his next visit to the market he was seized, and put to
the torture, by which he was compelled to reveal·the
uame and the asylum of the king. Th~ D\1,\..~ 't.'\'\,"t•
102 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
rounded the cottage·with his soldiers, who called oil
Richard to surrender, but the monarch refused to
yield to any one but to the Duke himself. A cruel
imprisonment followed his arrest, but he was at last
restored to his kingdom.
. The romantic story of his favourite Blondel, seek-
ing him throughout Europe in the disguise of a
minstrel, and discovering his prison, by singing his
favourite air under the walls of it, is believed to have
no other foundation than the lay of some sentimental
troubadour.
The beautiful and unfortunate Mary Queen of_
Scots excited a romantic interest and affection in her ·
immediate followers, which .has scarcely .diminished
at this distance of time ; and in the attempt to eilcape
from her evil. fortune, in which she was strenuously
aided by those followers, she was more than once
obliged to assume a disguise to impose on the ever-
wakeful vigilance of her enemies.
It is well known that this celebrated beauty, through
the political, as well, as it is believed, the personal
jealousy of Queen Elizabeth, was imprisoned in
Lochleven Castle, situated in the midst of a lake,
which, being thus cut off from all communication with
the surrounding country, was thought sufficiently
secure, for the purposes of safe custody. But her ."
beauty, and pitiable misfortunes, rendered her an
object of compassion to many about her, and several
attempts were made to rescue her from her rigoroWI
confinement.
Mary had one day nearly succeeded in making her
escape from the castle, disguiseq as a laundress. She
had actually seated herself in the boat, when she was
betrayed by inadvertently raising to her cheek a hand
of snowy whiteness; her beauty in this instance, as in
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 103
many others, proving the greatest source ot her
misery.
William Douglas, soon after, had the address to
steal the keys of the gates, from the hall in which
Sir William Douglas his father, and his mother, were
sitting at supper. The Queen, apprised of the cir-
cumstance, once more descended to the edge of the
lake, where a boat was waiting, and having entered it,
her maid assisted in rowing ; as they approached the
shore, William Douglas flung the keys into the lake•
. Having quitted the boat, the Queen mounted a palfrey,
- and rode to Middry, the residence of Lord Seaton,
where she was surrounded by her friends. She did
not, however, long enjoy this respite .from her mis-
fortunes, the defeat of her army, _at the fatal battle ot
Langside, in 1568, consigning her to a long and bar~
barous imprisonment, and, ultimately, to the scaffold.
History recorda few princes who have been com-
.pelled to assume such a series of disguises, or met
with such .hair-breadth escapes, as fell to the lot of
Charles the Second, after his overthrow at Worcester,
which apparently crushed for ever the hopes of the
royalist party. By the victors no means were left
untried to seize upon his person, and had not the
fidelity of his followers been even more than equal to
the animosity of his enemies, he must undoubtedly
have fallen a victim. A reward of a thousand pounds
was offered for his apprehension, the formidable terrors
of a traitor's death were fulminated against all who
should dare to shelter him, the country was scoured
in all directions by numerous parties, and the magis-
trates were enjoined to arrest every unknown indivi-
dual, and to keep a vigilant eye on the aea-ports. All,
however, was to no purpose; his flight remained un-
traceable, his fate was involved in profound m.'i'-~~,,
...
104 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
and it at length began to be IMlpposed that he had
perished obscurely by the hands of the peasantry.
Forty-four days elapsed before the republicans received
the unwelcome news that he not only still lived, but
that he had eluded their pursuit, and gained a secure
asylum in France.
On the night which followed the decisive defeat
at Woreester, the Earl of Derby recommended Bosco·
' bel House to the prince, as a place of refuge, and at an
early hourin the morningCharles reachedWhite-ladies,
twenty-five miles off. There the prince retired to
assume his first disguise ; his hair was closely cropped,
his face and hands were discoloured,his clothes changed
for those of a labourer, and a wood-bill was put into
.his hand, that be might personate a woodman. Under
the escort of two peasants named Pendrel, be reached
Madely, where he remained concealed till night, when
he again sought his way to BoscobeL Here he found
Colonel Careless, who was acquainted with every.
place of concealment in the country, and by his per.·
suasions Charles consented to pass-the day with him,
amid the branches of a lofty oak, from which they occa·
sionally saw the republican soldiers in search of them.
Night reli~Jved them, ·and they returned to a con.
cealment in the house. From thence Charles got to
Mosely the following day on horseback, and there
,assumed the character of a servant ; for the daughter
of Colonel ·Lane, of Bentley, had a pass, to visit her
aunt near Bristol, and Charles departed on horseback
with his mistress behind him. On stopping for the
night, he was indulged with a separate chamber under
the pretence of indisposition, but he was recognised
on the following rooming by the butler, who, being
honoured with the royal confidence, endeavoured to
repay it with hia services. No ship being found at
DECEPTION, AND CRED.ULITY. 105
Bristol, it was resolved that Charles should remove
to Trent, near Sherburn, and at Lyme a ship was
hired to transport a nobleman and his servant, Lord
Wilmot, and Charles, ,to the coast of France. But
again disappointment attended them. They then
rode to Bridport, and in the inn the ostler challenged
Charles, as an old acquaintance whom he had known
at Mr. Potter's of Exeter. The fact was, Charles had
lodged there during the civil war. He had sufficient
presence of mind to avail himself of this partial mis-
take, and said, "I once lived withMr. Potter, but, as
I have no time now, we will renew our acquaintance
' on my return to London, over a pot of beer."
A second ship was at length procured by Colonel
Phillips at Southampton, but of this resource Charles
was deprived by its being seized for the transport of
troops to Jersey: a collier was, however, soon after
.found at Shoreham, and Charles hastened to Brighton,
where he supped with the master of the vessel, who
also recognised him, having known him when, as
Prince of Wales, he commanded the royal fleet in
1648. The sailor, however, faithfully set him ashore,
on the following evening, at Fecamp, in Normandy,
where all his perils ended.
Equal dangers have been encountered by a few
other princes, in flying from their foes. The escape of
King Stanislas Lecszinski, from Dantzi'l, in 1734,
was accomplished under circumstances of extraordi-
nary difficulty. The city was closely invested, all its
immediate vicinity was inundated by the Vistula, and
the whole of the surrounding country was in the
bands of inveterate enemies, who were on the watch,
.... and .eager to seize him. The night before the fortress
capitulated, he quitted it, disguised, in a boat, accom-
panied by some peasants, and one of his tteua~
106 SKJITCRE8 OF IMPOSTURE,
The night was spent in vain attempts to find the bed
of &he river, and the dawn compelled him to seek a
precarious-shelter in a hut within sight of the Rus-
sians. In the evening they departed, and at midnight
&he general and two peasants proceeded to search for
a practicable route, leaving the king with only two pea-
unts, of whose fidelity he was·doubtful. The general
did not return. Again Stanislas was obliged tO take
refuge in a hut, where he was every moment in dread
of being discovered by the Cossacks. The Cossacks
did, in reality, enter the house, but they left it without
being aware that he was in it. At night, with his '
guides, he made a painful march, for some miles,
through boggy ground, into which he often sunk knee
deep. On reaching the Vistula, where he had ex-
pected to find a boat;it was gone, and he had to make
bis way back through the marsh. At the house
where he now arrived, he was instantly recognised ;
but·the owner was friendly, and promised to provide
biro with a boat. While the king was waiting, he
was joined by one of the peasants who had accom-
panied the general, who informed him that the Cos-
sacks were searching for him in every part of the
neighbourhood. The boat was at length procured,
and the king set out to embark ; but his guides were
so much frightened by seeing the fires of the enemy's
flying camps on all sides, that they refused to proceed.
It was only by a great exertion of firmness on his
part that they were prevailed on to move forward.
·At length they reached the boat. The king wished
to force on the finder of it a handful of gold, but the
noble-spirited peasant could hardly be prevailed on to
accept even a couple of ducats. Landing at a village
to hire or purchase a vehicle, Stanislas was in the
utmost danger of being discovered, in consequence of
DECEPTION, AND_ CREDULITY. 107
the drunkenness of his guides. He succeeded, how-
ever, in reaching the Nogat, on the other side of
which he would be in safety. But here again his
hopes were on the point of being wrecked by the
stupid obstinacy of his companions, who insisted on
his going round by Marienburgh, to cross. the bridge
there ; a measure which would have been fatal.
Stanislas peremptorily refused to consent to this mad
scheme ; and he was lucky enough to procure a boat,
by means of which he was conveyed to the Prussian
territory, where be met with a hospitable reception.
More protracted sufferings were experienced by the
Pretender; Prince Charles Edward, after the battle of
Cullotlen. Pursued by numerous foes, some of whom
were rendered inveterate by their political feelings,
while others were stimulated by the enormous reward
of thirty thousand pounds which was offered for his
apprehension, be was, for six months, in hourly ex-
pectation of falling into their hands. He was hunted
by land and water, from island to island, from cave
to cave, and from the abode of one partisan to that of
another, with a perseverance which nothing but his
own presence af mind, and the fidelity of his followers,
could have rendered ineffectual. During the hot
chase to· which he was exposed, he was subjected to
privations of the severest kind; hunger, thirst, ex-
posure to the elements, and incessant fatigue. Among
his many disguises was the dress of a female. It
seems that he now and then forgot the demeanour
which belonged to his garb. On one occasion, in
crossing a str'lam,. he held up his petticoats so in-
delicately high, that his conductor expressed fear that
BUSpicion would be excited ; upon which the prince
went to the opposite extreme, and allowed his clothes
to float on the water, till he was reminded that. thlsr..
108 SKE'l'CHES OF IMPOSTURE,
alao might draw attention to him. The battle of Cul-
loden was fought on the sixteenth ofApril, and it was
not till the nineteenth of September that Charles
Edward was at last rescued from the perils which en-
vironed him, by the arrival of two French vessels, in
one of which he embarked for France. Even in the last
.scene of his adventures danger threatened him ; for the
British fleet was then cruising off the French coast,
and be actually sailed through it in his way to Mor..
laix, but was hidden from it by a thick fog.
One of the most meritorious disguises ever put on
by a monarch, as it had its origin solely in good in-
tentions and anxiety for the welfare of his subjects,
is described in the history of 'Peter the Great, czar of
}Juscovy; who, though his education was defective,
was endowed with a .strong mind, and felt how much
was still tobe acquired before he could realize the vast
projects which he was eagerto execute. To counteract
the formidable power of the Strelitzes, who were far
more inclined to dispute than obey the commands of
their superiors, he resolved to introduce a new disci•
pline, and to re-organise his army; and, in order to set
the example of subordination, he himself entered as a
private in one of. his corps, which was disciplined in
the German manner. In this corps he gradually rose
to command by his services, and by sharing the toils
and privations of the military life.
In 1695, he laid siege to Azoff; but the enterprise
failed from a want of shipping to block the harbour :-
this circumstance, among others, forced on his atten-
tion the necessity of improving his navy. His .fond-
ness, however, for naval architecture is dated from
1691, when accidentally taking notice of a decayed
sloop near Moscow, and being told that it was of
foreign construction, and able to sail to windward, he.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 109
caused it to be repaired by a Dutch shipwright, and
was highly delighted to observe its manamvres, which
he afterwards learned to regulate himself. Perhaps
the most interesting and extraordinary circumstance
in the history of mankind, is, that the despotic monarch
of a mighty dominion should descend from his.throne,
and travel as a private person, in the train of his own
· ambassador sent to Holland. When Peter arrived
there, he first took qp .his abode in the Admiralty at
Amsterdam, and afterwards enrolled himself among
the ship-carpenters, and went to the village of Sar-
dam, where he wrought as a common carpenter and
blacksmith, with unusual assiduity, under the name
of Master Peter. He was clad and fed as his fellow-
workmen, for he would not allow of vain distinctions.
The next year he passed over to England, where, in
four months, he completed his knowledge of, ship
building. After receiving every mark of respect
from William the Third, he left this .country accom-
panied by several English ship-builders and carpen-
ters, whom he employed with great liberality, in his
naval dock-yards, and he is said to have subsequently
written several pieces on naval affairs
John Evelyn, the author of the Sylva, b'H-- rather a
.curious account of the emperor in his D.~;~ he
writes " 1698, January. The czar of Muscovy bt.u~
come to England, and having a mind to see the build-
ing of ships, hired my house at Say's Court, and made
it his court and palace, new furnished for him by the
King."
Whilst the czar was in his house, Mr. Evelyn's
senant thus wrote to him : .. There is a house full of
people, and right nasty. The czar lies next your
library, and dines in the parlour next your study.
He dines at ten o'clock and six at night, is very seldom
110 SKETCHES OJ!' IMPOSTURE,
at home a whole day, very often in the king's yard,
or by water, dressed in several dresses. The king is
expected here this day ; the best parlour is pretty clean
for him to be entertainedin. The king pays for all he
has."
· Such a noble mind, employed in the acquisition of
knowledge, for the benefit of his country and his peo-
ple, may well be pardoned for any deficienpies in the
accomplishments or embellishments of life.
In Carr's Tour round the Baltic is telated an anec-
dote of the czar's partiality towards those connected
with maritime affairs. A Dutch skipper hearing that
Petersburg was building, and that the emperor had a
great passion for ships and commerce, resolved to try
his fortune there, and accordingly arrived with the
first merchant vessel that ever sailed on the Neva,
and was the bearer of a letter of introduction to the
captain of the port from a friend ofhis in Holland, re-
questing him to use his interest to procure a freight
for him. Peter the Great was working like a common
labourer in the Admiralty as the galliot passed, and
saluted with two or three·small guns. The· emperor
was uncommonly delighted, and having been informed
of the Dutchman's business, he resolved to have some
frolic with him, and accordingly commanded the
port captain to see the skipper as soon as he landed,
and direct him to. the emperor, as a merchant juat
settled there, which character he intended to personate.
Peter repaired to his original cottage on the Neva,
with his empress, who, to humour the plan, dressed
herself in a plain bourgeois habit, such as suited the
wife of a merchant. The Dutchman was introduced
to t~e emperor, who received him with great kind-
ness, and they sat and ate bread and cheese, and
smoked together .for some time, during which the
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 111
Dutchman's eye examined the room, and began to
think that one who lived in so mean a place could be
of no service to him : presently the empress entered, .
when the skipper addressed her, by observing that he
had brought her a cheese, a much better one than she
had ever tasted, for which, affecting an awkward man-
ner, she thanked him. Being much pleased with her
appearance, he took from his coat a piece of linen, and
begged her acceptance ofitfor shifts. "Oh," exclaimed
the emperor, taking the pipe from his mputh, " Kate,
you will now be as fine a~d proud as an empress."
This was ·followed by the stranger begging to have &
kiss, whi'ch she coyly indulged him in. At this mo-
ment Prince Menzikof, the favourite and minister of
Peter the Great, covered with all his orders, stood·be-
fore the emperor uncovered. The skipper began to
stare with amazement, whilst Peter, making private
signs, induced the prince to retire. The astonished
Dutchman said," Why, 'you appear to have great ac-
quaintance here."" Yes," replied Peter, "and so may
you, if you stay here but ten days ; there are plenty
of such needy noblemen as the one you saw ; they are
always in debt and very glad to borrow money; but
beware of these fellows, and do not be dazzled by
their stars and garters, and such trumpery." This
advice put the Dutchman more at his ease, who
smoked and drank very cheerfully, and had made his
bargain with the imperial merchant for a cargo, when
the officer of the guard entered to receive orders, and
11tood with 11rofound ·respect, addressing Peter by the
title of Imperial- Majesty. The Dutchman sprang
from his chair, and fell on his knees, imploring for-
giveness for the li~rties he had been taking. Peter,
laughing heartily, raised him up and made him kiss
· the empress's hand, presented him with fifteen hun-
112 . SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
dred rubles, gave him a freight, and ordered that his
ves1el, JlS long as her timbers remained together,
should be permitted to enter 11-ll the Russian ports free
of duty. This privilege made the rapid fortune of the
o~er. '
The marriage of Ulrica, siste~ of Frederick the
Great, with Adolphus Frederick of Sweden, was the
fruit of a stratagem, rather unfairly played off on her
sister. The court and senate of Sweden sent an am-
bassador incognito to Berlin, to watch and report
upon the characters and dispositions of Frederick's
two unmarried sisters, Ulrica and Amelia; the former
of whom had the reputation of being very haughty,
crafty, satirical, and capricious; and the Swedish
court had already nearly determined in favo1,1r of
Amelia, w)lo was remarkable for the attraction of her
person and sweetness of her mind. The mission of
the ambassador was s~on buzzed abroad, and Amelill
was overwhelmed with misery, on account of her in-
superable objection to renounce the tenets of Calvin
for those of Luther. In this state of wretchedness she
implored the assistance of her sister's councils, to pre~
vent an union so repugnant to her happiness. The
wary Ulrica advised her to assume the most insolent
and repulsive deportment to every one, in the pre-
sence of the Swedish ambassador, which advice she
.followed, whilst Ulrica put on all those amiable quali-
ties which her sister had provisionally laid &~~ide: every
one, ignorant of the cause,- was .astonished at the
change ; and the ambassador informed his court that
fame had completely reversed their reciprocal good
and bad qualities. Ulrica was consequently preferred,
and mounted the throne of Sweden.
At the village of Zarsko-Zelo, at which is l!,ituated
the most magnificent of the imperial country palaces in
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 113
Russia, there were no inns, but the hospitality of Mr.
Bush, the English gardener, prevented that incon-
venience from being felt by visiters properly intro-
duced to him. When Joseph II., Emperor of Ger-
many, to whom every appearance of show was
disgusting, expressed his intention of vi11iting Cathe-
rine II., she offered him apartments in her palace,
which be declined. Her Majesty, well knowing his
dislike to parade, bad Mr. Bush's house fitted up as·
an inn, with the sign of,a Catherine wheel, below
which appeared in German characters " The Falken-
stein Arms ;" Falk.enstein being the name which the
emperor assumed. His Majesty knew -nothing of
the ingenious and attentive deception, till after he had
quitted Russia. When the emperor once went to
Moscow, heis said to have preceded the royal carriages
as an avant-courreur, in order to avoid the obnoxious
pomp and ceremony which an acknowledgment of his
rank would have awakened.
About the year 1428, there arose in France, in the
person of Joan of Arc, commonly called the Maid of
Orleans, a heroine, who by her enthusiasm stimulated
the French to resist the domination of the English.
She appears to_have been simple, chaste, modest, and
inoffensive. During her youth, she was frequently
seen kneeling devoutly in a corner of her village
church: piety, indeed, seems to have produced its
elevating effects on her mind, and to it may be
ascribed the largest portion of her success. There was,
in truth, nothing about her brief but brilliant day of
public action which looked like wilful imposture in
·herself. We must therefore suppose she was prac-
tised upon by others, or that her young and enthusi-
astic imagination, by being continually worked upon,
became atBicted with a permanent, though partial, de-
l
] 14 S_ItltTCHES OF IM·POSTVRE,
rangement ; a species of madness which is not un-
eommon. The latter supposition is supported by her
awn language; she declat:ed that, at the age of thirteen,
she had been instructed, by a voice from God, how to
govern herself, and that she saw St. Michael several
times, who ordered her to be a good girl ; and that
God would assist her, and that she mlist go to the
succour of the king of France.
Before she became a public character, she used tc>
amuse herself with her companions in running, and
fighting with a kind of lance, and also on horseback ;
which accounted for her subsequent excellent manage-
ment of weapons, and skill in riding.
There was a popular ·tradition, that France was·to
be delivered by a virgin from the borders of Lorraine.
This might have su,.,agested or as~isted her pretensions ;
and, having once fixed popular attention, and excited.
popular interest, public feeling both supported and
carried her to the completion of her wishes.
Joan, when first presented at court, is said to .have
known the king, who was standing promiscuously
among the nobles, and to have revealed to him a
secret unknown to any one else. It has been very
much canvassed what this secret could be; but, it
seems the Chevalier de Boissy, who was a favourite
of Charles the Seventh during their youth, and was
at that time his bedfellow, was in possession of it.
Charles told him that he had one day prayed, without
utterance, that Heaven would defend his right ; Joan
reminded him of this prayer. Such an incident leads
to a suspicion that some persons near the king, and
acquainted with his private thoughts, were secretly
instructing the maid of Orleans, and practising, by
these means, on the credulity of the nation. But of
still more consequence did her assumptions prove to
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 115
the English, who, under the administration of the
Duke of Bedford, were masters at that time of the
capital and almost all the northern provinces of
France. During her interview with the French king,
.Joan, in the name of the Supreme Being, offered to
raise the siege of Orleans, and to conduct him to
Rheims, to be there crowned and anointed ; and she
demanded, as the instrument of her future victories, a
particular sword, which was kept in the church of St.
Catherine of Fierbois, and which, .though she had
never seen it, she described by all its marks, and by
the place in which it had long lain neglected.
An assembly of grave doctors and theologians
cautiously examined Joan's mission, and pronounced
it undoub~edly supernatural. She was sent to the
parliament and interrogated before. that assembly;
and the presidents and counsellors, who had come
persuaded of her imposture, went away convinced of
her inspiration. All the English affected to speak
with derision of the maid, and of her heavenly com-
mission ; and said that the French king was now
reduced to a sorry pass, when he had recourse to such
ridiculous expedients ; but they felt their imagination
secretly struck with the ve~ement persuasion which
prevailed in all around them ; and waited with
anxious expectation for the issue of these extraordi-
nary preparations.
· The inhabitants of Orleans now believed themselvea
invincible under her influence, and the Count of Du-
nois himself, perceiving such an alteration both in
friends and foes, consented that the next convoy,
which was to march in a few days, should enter by the
aide of Beausse, where the English were most nume-
rous. The convoy approached ; no sign of resistance
I 2
116- SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
appeared in the besiegers ; it passed without intei.Tilp-
tion between the redoubts of the English, and a dead
silence and astonishment reigned among those troops
which were formerly so elated with victory. The siege
of Orleans was speedily raised, the· English army being
unable to continue its operations.
:rhe raising of the siege was one part of the maid's
promise to Charles ; the crowning him at Rheims was
the other ; and she now vehemently insisted that he
should set out on that enterprise. Rheims lay in a
distant quarter of the kingdom, and was then in the
bands of a victorious enemy; the whole road which
led to it was also occupied by their garrisons ; and no
man could be so sanguine as to imagine that such an
attempt could so soon come within the bounds of pos-
sibility. Charles, however, resolved to follow the
exhortations of his warlike prophetess, and to lead his
army upon this promising adventure. He set out for
Rheims at the head of twelve thousand men. Troyes
opened its gates to- him, Chalons imitated the ex-
ample, Rheims sent him a deputation with its keys,
and he scarcely perceived, as he passed along, that he
was marching through an enemy's country. The
ceremony was performed with the holy oil, which a
pigeon had brought to King Clovis from heaven on
the first establishment of the French monarchy. The
maid of Orleans stood by his side in complete armour,
displaying the sacred banner. The people shouted
with the most unfeigned joy, on viewing such a com-
plication of wonders. The inclinations of men swaying
their belief, no one doubted of the inspirations and
prophetic spirit of the maid ; the real and undoubted
facts brought credit to every exaggeration ; for no
fiction could be more wonderful than the event1,1 which
were known to be true.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 117
The maid was soon after taken prisoner by the
Burgundians, while she was heading a sally upon the
quarters of John of Luxembourg. The service of
Te Deum was publicly celebrated, on this fortunate
event, at Paris. The Duke of Bedford fancied that,,
by her captivity, he should again recover his former
ascendency over France ; and, to make the most of the
present advantage, he purchased the captive from
John of Lux'embourg, ·and instituted a prosecution
against her. The Bishop of Beauvais, a man wholly
devoted to the English interests, presented a petition
against Joan, and desired to have her tried by an ec-
clesiastical court, for sorcery, impiety, idolatry, and
magic. · The university of Paris was so mean as to join
in the same request. In the issue, she was condemned
for all the crimes of which she had been accused,
aggravated by heresy ; her revelations were declared
to be inventions of the devil to .delude the people;
and she was sentenced to be delivered over to the
secu,lar arm. Her spirit gave way to the terrors' of
that punishment to which she was sentenced, and she
publicly declared herself ready to recant; she ac-
knowledged the illusion of those revelations which
the church had rejected, and promised never more to
maintain them. Her sentence was then mitigated :
she was condemned to perpetual imprisonment, and to
be fed during life on bread and water.
But the barbarous yengeance of Joan's enemies was
not satisfied with this victory. Suspecting that the fe-
male dress which she now consented to wear was diS-
agreeableto her, theypurposely placed in her apartment
a suit of men's apparel, and watched for the effects of
tha_t temptation upon her. On the sight of a dress in
which she had acquired so much renown, and which
she once believed she wore by the ~a't\~~\\.\U ~~~\."\\..'\.-
IlS SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
ment of Heaven, all her former ideas and passions
revived, and she ventured in her solitude to clothe
herself again in the forbidden garments. Her insidious
en~mies caught her in that situation ; her fault was
interpreted. to be no less than a relapse into heresy.
No recantation would now suffice ; no pardon could be
gra~ted her ; she was condemned to be burnt in the
market-place of Rouen ; and the infamous sentence
was accordingly executed. .
During the time of the commonwealth, commis-
sioners, appointed by Oliver Cromwell, were sent to
Woodstock for the purpose of surveying the royal
demesne; but they speedily found themselves obliged
to quit it, in consequence of the great alarm occa-
sioned them by circumstances which could only hap-
pen, as they supposed, through the agency of means
which were considered' in those days to be quite
supernatural; though the knowledge of later times
creates a surprise at the credulity of the commis-
sioners being so easily worked upon by tricks, which
would now be ·regarded as almost beneath the capacity
of a schoolboy. The Woodstock devil is the name
by which the supposed spirit is known.
The strange events which are the subject of this
article, happened in the months of October and No-
vember, 1649. The commissioners arrived on Octo-
ber the 13th, taking up their residence in the king's
own apartments, turning his dining-room. into their
wood-yard, and supplying themselves with fuel from
a famous oak, called the Royal Oak •, that nothing
might be left with the name of king about it.
Thefirst supernatural appearance that disturbed the
equanimity of these worthy commissioners was that
• This was not the tree which gave the name to " Royal Oak
D.y." -
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 119
of a large black dog, which entering· one of the
rooms overturned two or three chairs, and then disap-
peared under a bed. The next day noises were heard
overhead, as of persons walking, though they knew
that aU the doors were looked. The wood of the
king's oak was brought by parcels from the dining-
room, and thrown with great violence into the pre-
sence-chamber. Giles Sharpe, their secretary, was.
active in attempting to discover the causes of these
disturbances, but his inquiries were Ulliluccessful. On
unlocking the door of the room, in the presence of
the commissioners, the wood was found all thrown
about in different directions. The chairs were tossed
about, the papers torn, and the ink spilt ; which mis-
chief, it was argued, could only have been perpetrated
by one who must have entered through the key-hole.
At night the beds of Giles Sharpe and two other
seryants were lifted up, and let down violently, so a1
to throw them out ; again, on the nineteenth, when in
bed, the candles were blown out, with a sulphureous
sm~ll, and the trenchers of wood hurled about "the
room.
On the twentieth the commissioners themselves,
when in bed, were attacked with cruel blows, and the
' curtains drawn to and fro with great violence. Thi1
sort of attack upon the peace and safety of the com-
-missioners was repeated almost every night. They
were also assaulted from without, for a..vast number
of stones and horses' bones were thrown through
the windows, to the great risk of those within.
· A servant, who was rash enough to draw his sword,
perceived that an invisible hand had bold of it too,
which, pulling it from him, struck him a violent blow
on the head with the pommel of it. Dr. Plot concludea
his relation of ~ affair with observin~, tlm.t " "m.~"\
120 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
1>f the circumstances related are not reconcileable to
·juggling," and he adds, "all which being put together,
perhaps may easily persuade some man, otherwise
inclined, to believe that immaterial beings might be
concerned in this business, provided the speculative
theist be not after all a practical atheist."
" The secret. History of the good Devil of Wood-
stock," a pamphlet pu~lished not long after these
events, unravelled these mysteries. It appears that
one Joe Collins, commonly called " Funny Joe," was
that very devil. He hired himselfas a servant to the
commissioners, under the name of Giles Sharpe, and,
by the help of two friends, an unknown trap-door in
the ceiling of the bedchamber, and ·a pound of gun·
powder, played all these amazing tricks.
The sudden extinguishing of the candles was con-
trived by inserting gunpowder into the lower part of
each candle, destined to explode at a certain time.
The great dog was no other than a bitch, that had
whelped in that room shortly before, and which made
all that disturbance in seeking her puppies, and which,
when she had served his purpose, Giles Sharpe let out,
and then pretended to search for.
The circumstance that had most effect in driving
the commissioners from _Woodstock was this :-they
had formed a reserve of a part of the premises to
themselves, and having entered into a private agree-
ment among themselves, they hid the writing in the
earth, under the roots of an orange-tree, which grew
in a tub in the corner of the room. In the midst of
dinner one day this earth took fire, and burned
violently with a blue fiame, filling the room with a
strong sulphureous stench ; the explanation of which
phenomenon may be found in modern books of expe-
rimental chemistry, under the head of " receipt to
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 121
make an earthquake." This last attack so completely
terrified the commissioners, that, fearing the very
devils from hell were rising against them, they speedily
took to flight.
So early as the reign of Henry the Second, Wood-
stock was famed for being the residence of the beau-
tiful Rosamond, and it is thus quaintly described by
Speed. " Henry the Second built an intricate laby-
rinth at Woodstock, and therein he stowed this pearl
of his esteem (Rosamond), unto whose closet, for the
inexplicate windings, none could appro11ch but the
king, and those instructed by him. Notwithstanding,
his jealous queen, Eleanor, favoured by accident, thus
discovered the privacy of the favourite, for a clewe
of silk having fallen from Rosamond's lap, as she sat
to take the air, and was suddenly fleeing from the
sight of the searcher, the end of silk fastened to her
foot ; the clewe, still unwinding, remained behind,
.which the queen followed up till she had found what
she sought, and upon Rosamond so bestowed her
spleen, that the gentle ladye lived not lo~g after."
122 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
CHAPTER VIII.
lllLITARY ITRATA.GEII8.
Characteristic Mark of a skilful General-Importanee anciently
attached to military Stratagems -The Stratagem of Joshua at
Ai, the first which is recorded-Stratagem of Julius CEsar in
Gaul-Favourable Omen derived from Sneezing-Artifice ofBiu
at Priene-Telegraphic Communication-Mode adopted by
Hystilllus to convey Intelligence-Relief of Casilinum by Grac-
chus-.Stratagem of the Chevalier de Luxembourg to convey
Ammunition into Lisle-importance of concealing the Death of
a General-The manner in which the Death of Sultan Solyman
was kept secret-Stratagem of John Visconti-Stratagem of
Lord Norwich at Angoul~me-Capture of Amiena by the
Spaniards-Manner in which the Natives of Sonia threw off the
Yoke.
. THE part of a skilful general does not only consist
in the capability of gaining a great battle, but also in
knowing when to avoid the risk _of an engagement.
So numerous, and so variable, are the chances of war,
that a commander of even the best appointed army
should be prepared to meet all emergencies, in the
event of its strength being destroyed, or its numbers
diminished, by famine, fatigue, or desertion ; so that,
notwithstanding these adverse circumstances, he may
still have a chance of overcoming by policy those
enemies whom he had hoped to subdue by the sword.
Discretion is always the better part of valour, and,_
in some cases, a handful of men may decide the ev~nt
of a campaign, in which, otherwise, the blood of thou-
sands might be spilt in vain. The old wtiters on the
art of war did not fail to attach great importance to
those atratagema, by which much was effected, or
attempted, when one side was reduced to the necessity
of maintaining a defensive system of warfare.
The earlieat account of recourse being had to mili-
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 123
tary stratagem is that recorded in the eighth chapter
of Joshua, where that leader of the Israelites, besieg-
ing the city of Ai, said, "Behold ye shall lie in wait
against the city, even behind the city: go not very
far from the city, but be ye all ready: and I, and all
the people that ar~ with me, will approach unto the
city:_and it shall come to pass, when they come out
against us, as at the finit, that we will flee before
them. For they will come out after us, till we have
drawn them from the city; then ye shall rise up from
the ambush, and seize upon the city : for the Lord
your God will deliver it into your hand."
· Thus fell the city of Ai into the hands of Joshua,
.and a similar kind of stratagem has since frequently
turned the day between contending armies. Julius
Cresar did not consider it beneath a general or warrior
to have recourse to almost a similar stratagem, when
part of the army under Q. Cicero, in Gaul, was
besieged. By the apparent flight of his troops,
·Julius Cresar drew the enemy into a convenient spot
for an engagement, and, turning, overcame them.
A circumstance most trifling in itself, when it has
been ushered in by superstition, as a good omen, has
often raised the spirits of an army. Xenophon relates,
in the Anabasis, that when the Greeks in some alarm
were consulting, previous to the celebrated retreat of
the ten thousand out of Asia, an accident, which in
itself was even ridiculous, did nevertheless, through
the importance attributed to it by the Grecian super-
stition, assist not a little to infuse encouragement.
~enophon was speaking of that favour from the gods
which a righteous cause entitled them -to hope for, .
against a perjured enemy, when somebody sneezed :
immediately, the general voice addressed ejaculations
to protecting Jupiter, whose omen it was \'ill.~~~~
124 SKETCHES OF I!IU'OSTURE,
be, a sacrifice to the god was proposed, a universal
shout declared approbation, and the whole army in
chorus 11ang the pman.
Bias, by the following artifice, induced Alyattes,
king of Lydia, to raise the siege of Priene, where he
was born. That city was pressed by famine, which
circumstance being suspected by the besiegers gave
them great hopes; Bias, however, caused two mules
to.'be fattened, and contrived a way to have them pass
into the enemy's camp. The good condition they
were in astonished the king, who thereupon sent
deputies into the city, under pretence of offering
peace, but really to observe the state of the town and
people. Bias, guessing their errand, had ordered the
granaries to be filled with heaps of sand, and those
heaps to be covered with corn. When the deputies
returned, and made their. report to the king, of the
great plenty of provisions they had seen in the city,
he hesitated no longer, but concludea a treaty and
raised the siege.
The invention of telegraphic communication has
proved of the greatest utility in modem warfare, both
for despatch and security. In ancient times, the
bearer of messages had both an important and dan-
gerous duty to perform, and one which was very
uncertain in its execution. A singular and ingenious
method of communication, is attributed to Hysti~eus,
who, desiring to write to Aristagoras, shaved the head
of his trustiest servant, and wrote upon his scalp,
in certain brief characters, what he would impart to
his friend, and keeping him in his house till the hai.r
was grown as thick as before, then aent him on his
errand•.
• The hair baa often been found Tery useful as a means of con-
caalment for other purposes. The Indian landores, whilat waahing
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 125
By the policy of Gracchus, the Roman general, the
Campanian city of Casilinum was for a considerable ·
time prevented from falling into the hands of Annibal.
Gracchus was encamped in the vicinity of the city,
but, though the garrison was reduced to the most
dreadful extremity by famine, many of the soldiers
having been driven to commit suicide, he did not dare
to make a movement to relieve the besieged, the dic-
tator having imperatively enjoined him not to stir from
-his position. ln this emergency he had recourse to
stratagem.
The Vultumus ran through the place, and Gracchus
resolved to make it the channel by which to convey
succours. "He therefore," says Livy, "collected com
from all parts of the country round, and having filled
therewith a great number of casks, sent a messenger
to Casilinum to the magistrate, desiring that the peo-
ple should catch the casks which the river would
bring down. The following night was passed in at-
tentively watching for the completion of the hopes
raised by the Roman messenger, when the casks,
being sent along the middle of the stream, floated
down to the town. The same stratagem was practised
with success on the following night and on the third ;
but the river being afterwards rendered more rapid
by the continued rains, an eddy drove them across to
the side where the enemy's guards were posted, and
they were discovered sticking among osiers which
grew on the banks. This being reported to Annibal,
the IUld, for the grains of gold, were ohee"ed by the overseen to
be continually ecratcbing their beadt, or palling their fingers
through their thick woolly hair. A suspicion arising, the hair
was combed, and was found full of the gold grains. On keeping
their hair quite abort it wae discovered that the neceuity for ouch
frequent application to the bead had ceued.
126 . BKBTOHES OF IMPOSTURE,
care was taken for the future to guard the Vultumus
with greater vigilance, so that no supply sent down by
it to the city should pass without discovery. Not-
withstanding which, quantities of nuts being poured
into the river at the Roman camp, and :floating down
to Casilinum, were stopped there with hurdles. The
scarcity, however, at last became so excessive, that
tearing off the straps and leathern coverings of their
shields, and softening them in boiling water, they en-
deavoured to chew them ; nor did they abstain from
mice or any other kind of animal. They even dug up
every sort of herb and ,root that grew at the foot of
the ramparts of the town ; and when the enemy had
ploughed up all the ground round the wall, that pro-
duced any herbs, they sowed it with turnip seed,
which made Annibal exclaim, ' Am I to sit here be-
fore Casilinum until these grow ?' Although he had
hitherto refused to listen to any terms of capitulation,
yet he now allowed overtures to be made to him, re-
specting the redeeming of the men of free condition.
An agreement was· made, that for each of these a
ransom should be paid· of seven ounces of gold ; and
then the garrison surrendered." .
A still more daring, and almost equally suecessful
stratagem was employed, early in the eighteenth cen-
tury, to protract the defence of Lisle, which was then
besieged by the Duke of Marlborough and Prince .
Eugene. Ammunition beginning to be scarce in the
city, the Chevalier de Luxembourg formed a plan
for introducing into the fortress a supply, not only of
powder, but also of men and arms. Having succeeded
in keeping his project a secret from the enemy, the
chevalier began his march at the head of two thou-
sand five hundred selected cavalry ; a part of whom
were carbineers and dragoons. Each horseman car-
·~
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 127
-ried behind him a sack, containing sixty pounds of
powder ; and each dragoon and earbineer bad three
muskets, and a large quant~ty of gun-flints. Be-
tween nine and ten in the evening, the band reached
the barrier of the lines of eircumvallation. In
front of the detachment was an officer who could
speak Dutch well, and knew all the Dutch regiments
which were employed in patrolling. On being chal-
lenged by the guard, he unhesitatingly replied, " Open
the gate quickly; I am bringing powder to the be-
siegers, and am pursued by a French detachment."
The barrier was promptly opened. Nineteen hun-
dred of the party had passed through, wben a French
officer, seeing that his men were straggling, impru-
dently exclaimed, in his native language, " Close up t
close up I" This gave the alarm to the allied officers,
and a fire was opened upon the French. The powder
of some of the horsemen exploded, and sixty of them
were immediately blown to pieces. The rear of the
party now' took flight towards Douay; but of those
who had been fortunate enough to pass the barrier,
eighteen hundred reached Lisle, to which they brought
a supply of twelve hundred muskets and eighty thou-
sand pounds of powder.
The well-being of an army, and the spirits of the
troops during an engagement, depend so much on the
safety of their favourite general, that any sudden
rumour of his being slain would in all probability
entirely change the fortune of the day. In the event
of such a catastrophe his death has been often studi-
ously concealed from the main body of the troops,
till it was no longer necessary or possible to withhold
such intelligence. The following instance, related by
Ward, in his Art of War, is perhaps the most remark-
128 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
able, if correctly given, for the length of time this
secret was preserved.
Solyman, the Ottoman emperor, dying at the siege
of Sigeth, in Hungary, his death was cunningly con-
cealed by Mahomet Bassa twenty days before the
Janizaries knew of it; and when any of them inquired
for him, he would show them the emperor sitting. in
his horse litter, as if troubled with the gout ; but the
soldiers, suspecting something, began to be mutinous,
whereupon he promised that they should see the em-
peror the next day, for which purpose he apparelled
the corpse in the large royal robes, and placed him in
a chair at the end of a long gallery ; a little boy was
placed behind, to move the emperor's hand, and to
stroke his beard, as it seems his manner. was. Which
sign of life and strength the -soldiers perceiving were
well contented, so tha~ his death was conc~led for
forty days more till the siege was ended.
John Visconti, Archbishop, as well as Governor of
Milan, in the fourteenth century, was a very ambitious
character, and excited the jealousy of the pope by his
show of temporal authority, and by his 'aiming at
becoming master of all Italy. The pope, who resided
at that time at Avignon, sent a nuncio to John Vis-
conti, to demand the city of Bologna, which he ·bad
purchased, and to choose whether he would possess
the spiritual or temporal power, for both could not be
united. The archbishop, after hearing the message
with respect, sail\. he would answer it the following
Sunday, at the cathedral. The day came, and, after
celebrating mass in his pontifical robes, be advanced
towards the legate, requiring him to repeat the orders
of the pope, on the choice of the spiritual or the tem-
poral : then taking a cross i11. one hand, and drawing
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY.
forth a naked sword with tl;le other, he said, " Behold
my spiritual and my temporal, and tell the holy father
from me, that with the one I will defend the other."
The pope, not content with this answer, commenced a
process, and summoned him to appear in person, on
pain of excommunication. The archbishop received
the brief, and promised to obey it ; he sent immedi-
ately to Avignon one of his secretaries, ordering him
to retain for his use all the houses and stables he
could hire in Avignon, with provisions for the subsist-
en~ of twelve thousand horse, and six thousand foot.
The secretary executed his commission 80 well that
the strangers, who came on business, could find no
place to lodge in. The pope, being informed of this,
asked the secretary if the archbishop required so
many houses. The latter answered, that he feared
those would not be sufliciellt, because his master was
coming with eighteen thousand troops, besides a great
number of the inhabitants of Milan, who would
accoi!Wany him. Terrified at this account, the pope
paid immediately the expense the secretary had been
at, and dismissed him, with orders to tell the arch-
bishop, that he dispensed with his making a journey
to Avignon. /
In the wars between Edward the Third and Philip
of France, Angouleme was besieged by the Duke of
Normandy. After a brave and vigorous defence,
the governor, Lord Norwich, found himeelf reduced
to such -extremities, as obliged him to employ a stra-
~m, in order to save his garrison, and prevent his
bemg reduced to surrender at discretion. He ap-
peared on the walls, and desired a parley with the
Duke of Normandy. The duke told Norwic;h that he
supposed he intended to capitulate. "Not at all," ·
K
130 IIUtTCBU OP llfPOS~
replied he; "bat u ~mornnr is the -- or the
r ugio, to wt- I bow that you. sir, a well a ay-
sell, bear a gft2t deTotion, I desire a e-linn of--
for that day." The proposal was agreed to, ...t
:Sonrich, baring ordered his forces to prepue •
their baggage. marched Ollll oen day, aDd ..m.aced
towards the Fn!DCh camp. The besiege~s, ~
that they were to be attaeked, ran to their arum ; bot
Norwich sent a ~r to the Duke. ~
him of his ~t. The duke, who piqued him-
self oo faithfully keeping his wonl, exclaimed, " I see
the goyernor has outwitted me, but Jet os be contem
with ~ the place ;- ud the En.:,oti.sb were allowed
to pue through the besiegiug army unmolested.
By the follcnriug stratagem OD the part of the
Spuiards, in 15!r/, AmieDs was takeo. Soldiers, dis-
guised like peu;mtl, conducted .a c:art loaded with
nuts towards the gate of the town, aDd let them &II,
as if accidentally, jost as the gate was opened; and
while the guard was busied in gathering them 1JP• the
Spaniards eutering, secured the ga~ aDd thos gave
their countrymen the opportunity to come up, and
become masters of the town.
According to the testimony of the natins of Con-
go, says l\lr. Maxwell, the country of Sonia. amongst
other tribes, at no great distance of time, formed part
of the kingdom of Congo, ud the people of Sonia
were obliged to carry burdens of white sand, from the
beach to Banza-Congo, one hundred aDd fifty miles
distant, to fonn pleasant walks at the royal residence.
This servitude greatly exasperated the men of Sonia,
whose warlike and independent spirit is now feared
and respected by all the neighbouring nations ; ud,
having concealed their weapoDB in the several burdens
of sand, they were by this eontrivauce enabled to
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 131
avenge themselves of the indignity put upon them, and
to plunder the city, killing many of the queen's peo-
ple. Having thus shaken off their yoke, Sonia has
since been governed by native princes.
CHAPTER IX.
MALINGB&IltG, OH. SJIIULATJON OF DIS&UES.
Former Prevalence of Malingering in the Army ; and the Motives
for it--Decline of the Practice--Where most Prevalent-The
means of Simulation reduced to a System-Casea of simulated
Ophthalmia in the 60th Regiment-The Dee.eption wonderfully
kept up by many Malingerers-Mean• of Detection-Simulated
Paralyaia--Impudent Triumph manifeated by Malingeren-Cu-
rioua case of Hollidge-Gutta' Serena, and Nyctalopia counter-
feited-Blind Soldiet'B employed in Egypt-Cure, by actual
cautery, of a Malingerer-Simulation of Consumption and other
Diseases-Feigned Deafnes-Detection of a Man who simu-
lated Deafness-Instances of Self-mutilation committed by
Soldiers-Simulation of Death.
A VERY serious.evil has existed in the army, re-
sulting from a very general practice of idle and
dissolute soldiers in barracks, and even in more active
service, feigning diseases and disabilities ; for the
purpose of either escaping duty, or in the hopes of
being altogether discharged frOm the service, and
procuring a pension. This imposture has been termed
Malingering, or the simulation of diseases, and the
unsuccessful or suspected impostors have been
usually called Malingerers~ In vulgar English, the
trick is called Shatlming Abram. ·
Remarkable ingenuity, and a very considerable
knowledge of the powers and effects of medicinal
agents, have been shown by those who, a priori,
would :not be suspected of such information : and the
oK2
132· SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
pertinacity shown by the impostors, when the object
was to procure their discharge, has been often won-
derful.
The reasons which call for, or privilege a soldier
to expect, his discharge, are chronic and incurable
rather than acute diseases. It is natural, therefore,
to find the malingerers most expert in simulating the
former, though, at the same time, the more acute
diseases have not been less faithfully represented,
when the object in view was only a temporary evasion
• of duty.
This practice has prevailed to a greater or less
extent at different periods of our medical military
·history ; and it is gratifying to learn, from authentic
sources, that in the present period of highly improved
discipline in the British army, there are not probably
two malingerers for ten who were found in the mili-
tary hospitals thirty or forty years since. n also
occurs more or less according to the manner of form-
ing a regiment. In some of t~e cavalry regiments,
and some of the Highland and other distinguished
infantry battalions, in which, along with a mild but·
exact discipline, there is a strong attachment to the
service, and remarkable e3prit du corp1, there is
scarcely an instance of any of those disgraceful at-
tempts to deceive the surgeon ; while .in regiments
which have been hastily recruited, and under circum-
s.tances unfavourable to progressive and complete dis-
cipline,the system ofimposition is perfectlyunderstood.
Among those who counterfeit diseases, it has been •
observed that the Irish are the 1110st numerous, the
Scotsmen less so, but malingering seems least of all
the vice of English soldiers.
There appears to be a species of free-masonry
among soldiers, and thus these methods of imposture
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 133
have been systematised, and handed down for the
common benefit. A case occurred of a man having
a rupture, which on inspection was found to be arti-
ficially formed from some written directions, " How
to make a rupture," which were produced. The man
was discharged by his commanding officer, but the
discharge-not being backed by the surgeon's recom-
mendatory certificate, he lost his pension ; the com-
manding officer· after his return from Corunna met
.thia man perfectly well, following the laborious occu-
pation of a porter. ' •
In the year 1804, the great increase of ophthalmia
in the 50th regiment, and the reported detection of
frauds in other regiments, led to a suspicion in the
mind of the surgeon of that corps, and a consequent
investigation, by which a regular correspondence waa
detected between the men under medical treatment
and their paFents or friends. Those suffering from
ophthalmia, within the walls of the hospital, requested
that those without would forward to them corrosive
sublimate, lime, and blue stone ; and by the application
of these acrid substances to their eyes, they hoped to
get them inU! sueh a state of disease, as would enable
them to procure their discharge, with a pension. And
they mevtioned the qamea of men who had been suc-
cessful by similar means. Proofs of guilt having been
established, the delinquents· were tried by a court-
.martial, convicted, and punished.
It is hardly possible to believe, that men would
endure not only the inconvenience of a severe oph-
thalmia, than which, perhaps, nothing is more pain-
ful, but would even risk the total loss of sight, for the
uncertain prospect of a tritling pension, and with the
conviction, that even if they gained it, they reduced
themselves to a helpless dependence on others throuct~
134 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
life. But it is nevertheless certain that whole wards
have been filled with soldiers labouring under this
artificially excited disease; this inflammation ofthe eye
having been produced, and maintained, by quicklime,
11trong infusions of tobacco, Spanish flies, nitrate of
silver, and other metallic salts. The inflammation
thus caused is most painful, yet it has been kept up
under every privation which can make life miserable.
Wonderful indeed is the obstinacy some malin-
gerers evince; night and day, they will remain, with
ethe endurance of a fakir, in positions most irksome,
for weeks and months; nay, many men for the-same
period have, with surprising resolution and recol-
lection, sat and walked with their bodies bent double,
without forgetting for one moment the character of
their assumed infirmity.· _
These impostors are most easily discovered by a
retaliating deception on the part of the surgeon ; he·
should conceal his suspicions, and appear to .give
credit to all that is related to him of the history of
the disease, and propose some sort of treatment ac-
cordingly.
The nervous disorders that are simulated are such
as to require a constant and unceasing watchfulness,
on~the part of the impostor, lest he shotdd betray
himself. ·
Paralysis of one arm was feigned, with great per-
severance and consistency, for months; the soldier
pretending that he had fallen asleep in the open air,
and awoke with his arm benumbed I!Jld powerless.
This farce he kept up with such boldness, that, being
suspected, a court martial was held on him, and he
was even tied up to the halberts to be punished ; but
the commanding officer thought the evidence not suf·
ficiently convincing. Having, however, subsequently
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. . 135
undergone very severe treatment, and there being no
prospect of a pension, he at last gave in.
The unprincipled obstinacy ofsome individuals even
triumphs openly in the success of their imposture. A
trooper in the 12th pretended that he had lost the
use of his right arm, and after resisting, for a great
length oftime, severe hospital discipline, he procured
his discharge. When he was leaving the regiment,
and fairly on the top of the coach, at starting, he
waved his paralytic arm in triumph, and cheered at
the success of his plan. Another soldier, who pre-.
tended that he had lost the use of his lower extre-
.mities, was reported unfit for service, and was dis-
charged. When his discharge was obtained, he caused
himself, cin a field day, to be taken in a cart to the
Phmnix park, and in front of the regiment, drawn up
in a line, he had the cart driven under a tree ; he
then leaped out of the cart, springing up three times,
insulted the regiment, and scampered off at full
speed.
A third soldier, of the name of Hollidge, pretending
to be deaf and dumb after an attack of fever,.never for
one moment forgot his assumed character, till his pur-
pose was attained. Being useful as a tailor, he was kept
for five or six years, subsequent to this pretended ca-
.latnity, and carried on all communication by writing.
On one occasion, whjlst practising firing with blank
cartridge, an awkward recruit shot Hollidge in the ear,
who expressed pain and consternation by a variety of
contortions, but never spoke. Not having been heard
to articulate for five years, he was at last discharged;
he then recovered the use of speech, and a vacancy
occurring shortly after, he offered himself to fill the
situation, namely, as master tailor to the regiment.
136 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
That species of blindness, thus feelingly described
by Milton,
"So thick a drop serene hath qu.,nched these orbs,"
and which is that in which no manifest alteration takes
place in the eye, has been produced by the application
ofbella donna. Nyctalopia, or night blindness, was fre-
quently feigned in Egypt, and nearly half of a corps
were, or pretended to be, afB.icted with it : as the troops
were employed in digging and throwing up fortifica-
iions, this 11tate of vision was found of not so much
consequence. In transporting the earth, a blind man
was joined to, and followed by, one who could see;
and when the sentries were doubled, a blind.man and
one that could see. were put together, and not perhaps
without advantage, as, during the night, hearing, upon
an outpost, is often of more importance than sight.
One unprincipled wretch, in an hospital, pretending
to be afB.icted with a hopeless complaint, which was a
subject of offence to the wbole ward, being detected,
it was determined to apply the actual cautery. On the
first application of the red-hot spatula, this fellow, who
for eleven months bad lost the use of his lower limbs,
gave the man who held his leg so violent a kick, tbat
he threw him down, and instantly exclaimed that he
was shamming, and would do his duty if released; but
the surgeon declared that he would apply the iron to
the other.hip, on which he roared out, that he had
been shamming to get his discharge. To the amuse-
ment of all around, he walked to his bed, and when
the burned parts were healed, he returned to his duty.
Spitting of blood and consumption are rather fa-
vourite diseases with soldiers who seek their diacharge
from the service through imposture; yet an acute phy·
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 137
s1ctan may easily detect the imposition. Palpitation
and violent action of the heart the impostors know how
to produce, by the juice of hellebore ; vomiting by se-
cret pressiK"e on the stomach; tympany, or distention
of the body by air, is produced by swallowing, on phi-
losophical and chemical principles, chalk and vinegar.
The acute diseases have many symptoms which are
easily simulated, but as easily detected. The appear-
ance ofthe white tongue is created by rubbing it with
chalk, or whitening from the wall ;- but washing the
mouth with water at once proves the deceit. Dr.
Hennen, in his Military Surgery, says, " Profligates
have, to my knowledge, boasted that they have often
received indulgences from the medical officers in con-
sequence of a ·supposed febrile attack, by presenting
themselves after a night's debauch, which they had
purposely protracted, to aid the deception. febrile
symptoms are also produced by swallowing tobacco-
juice. One man, if unwilling to be cured secundum
artem, was at least anxious to enumerate his symp-
toms in an orthodox manner, for he had purloined some
pages from Zimmerman's Treatise on Dysentery, (the
disease he had thought proper to simulate,) from one
of the medical officers ; .and from which he was daily
in the habit of recounting a change of symptoms.
Stoical.indifference to their frequently painful impos- •
ture and hardihood in maintaining its character, are
the necessary qualifications of malingerers, who have
frequently evinced a constancy and fortitude under
severe pain and privations, worthy of a better cause."
A patient permitted all the preparatory measures
for amputation before he thought proper to relax his
knee-joint; and another suffered himself to be almost
drowned in a deep lake, into which- he was plunged
from a boat, before he stretched out his arm to I!A'I~
138 . SKETCHES OF IMPOSTUU,
himself by swimming, .an exerciie in which he wu
known to excel. ·
Those who affect deafness•, are frequently caught
in a snare by opening the conversation with them in a
' very high tone of voice, but gradually sinking it to
its usual compass : when, thrown off his guard, the
impostor will reply to such questions as are put to
him. A recruit, unwilling to go to the East Indies,
feigned deafness ; he was admitted into the hospital,
and put on spoon-diet: for nine days no notice wu
taken of him. On the tenth the physician, having
made signs of enquiry to him, asked the hospital 1181'-
geant what diet he was on ? the serjeant answered,
"Spoon-diet." The physician, affecting to be angry,
said," Are.you not ashamed of yourself, to have kept
this man so long on spoon-meat ? the poor fellow ia
nearly.starved; let him have a beef-steak and a pint ·
of porter." Murphy could contain himself no longer;
he completely forgot his assumed defect, and, with a
face full of gratitude, cried, " God bless your honour I
• A rather whimaieal sceneonce took place in a pro-.incial hospital,
where a patient preaented himself for admi11ion. According to the
neual custom of that institution, the physician ofthe week uked the
man what bia complaintwu, but be could get no uawer; afterseveral
ineffectual attempts, the physician pueed him over to the ourgeon;
he, also, became exhausted in the vain attempt. The pupila, who
were present to learn the m o( prognosis ud diagnosis, bad now a
good opportunity of initiating themselves in the practice of the uaual
preliminary enquiries; but tho united eloquence of this medical
1t&ft' could only elicit from the patient the remuit that "be waa
deaf, and bard of hearing." " Yes," replied one and all, " that is
clear enough; but,'' abouting once more into hie ear, "what's the
matter with you?" This unfortunate peraon wu on the point of
being eent back u a bopole11 subject, when a conviction cune over
one of the party, that this obnoxioua deafne~~ waa the very com-
plaint for which he aought a .remedy. The clue·once gained, the
proper inquiriea were eet on foot, ud the diaease went oft' by beat
ofdrvm.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 139
you are the best gentleman I have seen for many a
day."
. During the insurrection in the Kandian country, in
1818, a private )>elonging to the 19th regiment was
sentry at a post, and was occasionally fired at by the
enemy from the neighbouring jungle. Availing him-
self of what appeared a favourable opportunity for get-
ting invalided and sent home, he placed the muzzle
of his musket close to the inside of his left leg, and
discharging the piece; he blew away nearly the whole
of his calf. He asserted, to those who came to his
assistance, that the wound had proceeded from a shot
of the enemy's from the jungle; but the traces of
gunpowder found in the leg, told a different tale, as
well as his musket, which was recently discharged.
A W'!rgeant in the 62nd regiment purchased a pistol,
and hired a person to shoot him through the arm ;
hoping, by these means, tQ make it appear that he had
been fired at by one disaffected to the JDilitary, and
that be should be discharged with a large pension.
In this, however, he was disappointed.
Even death itself has been simulated. When some
oftieers, in India, were breakfasting in the comman-
der's tent, the body of a native, said to have been
murdered by the sepoys, was brought in and laid
down. The crime could not be brought home to any
one of them, yet there was the body. A suspicion,
however, crossed the adjutant's mind, and, having the
kettle in hia hand, a thought struck him that he would
pour a little boiling water on the body ; he did so ;
upon which the murdered remains started up, and
scampered off.
140 ·sKETCHES OP IM'POSTVRE,
CHAPT~R X.
MISCELLANEOUS IMP08TOIUJ AKD IJIPOSTUR.ES.
Mary Tofts, the Rabbit Breeder, of Godalmlng-Progress and De-
tection of her Impostures-Poisoning of St. Andre-The Bottle
Conjuror,......Advertieemente on this Occaaion-Riot produced by
the Fraud-Squibs and Epigrams to which it gave n--o-
of Elizabeth Canning-Violent Coutroveny which aroae out of
it-.She is found gui!Ly of Perjury and transported-The Cock
Lane Ghoat-Pnblic Excitement occaaioned by it--Detection of
the Fraud-Motive for the Imposture-The Stockwell Ghost-
-The Sampford Ghoat-Myatery in which the Affair wu in..
volved-AstoniahiogInstance ofCredulity in Perigo and hie Wife
-DiabolicalConductofMa.ry Bateman-She ishangedfor Murder
-Metamorphosis ofthe Chevalierd'Eon-MultifariousDisgui-
ofPrice, the Forger-MiBB Robertson-The fortunate Youth-
The PrinoeBB ·olive-Caraboo-Pretended Faating-Margaro$
Senfrit-Catherine Binder-The Girl of Unna.-The Ofiabull!
Girl-Anne Moore. .
TowARDs the close of the year 1726, one of the
most extraordinary and impudent impostures on re-
cord was carried ·into execution by a woman named
Mary Tofts, the wife of a ·poor journeyman cloth-
worker at Godalming, in Surrey. She is described as
having been of '' a healthy strong constitution, small
size, fair complexion, a very stupid and sullen temper,
and unable to write or read." Stupid as she was sup-
posed to be, she had, however, art enough to keep up
for a considerable time the credit of her fraud. She
pretended to bring forth rabbits ; and she accounted
for this monstrous deviation from the laws of nature,
by saying, that " as she was weeding in a field, she
saw a rabbit spring up near her, after which she ran,
with another woman that was at work just by her;
this set her a longing for rabbits, being then, as she
thought, five weeks gone with child; the other woman
perceiving she was uneasy, charged her with longing
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY.· 141
for the rabbit they could not catch, but she denied it.
Soon after, another rabbit sprung up near the same
place, which she endeavoured likewise to catch. The
same night she dreamt that she was in a field with
those two rabbits in her lap, and awaked with a sick
tit, which lasted till morning; from that time, for
above three months, she had a constant and strong
desire to eat rabbits, but being very poor and indigent
could not procure any."
At first sight, it would seem that so gross an im-
position, as that which was attempted by Mary Tofts,
must have been unanimously scouted. But this was
by no means the case. So well did she manage, and
so ready a:re some people to be deceived, that she
actually deluded her medical attendant, Mr. Howard.
a man of probity, who had practised for thirty years.
There can be no doubt of his belief that, in the course
of about a month, he had aided her to bring forth
nearly twenty rabbits.
The news of these marvellous births spread far and
wide, and soon found numerous believers. It at-
tracted the attention of even George the First, who
sent down to Godalming his house surgeon, Mr.
Ahlers, to inquir& into the fact. Ahlers went back
to London fully convinced that he had obtained
ocular and tangible proof of the truth of the story ;
so much so, indeed; that he promised to procure for
Mary a pension. Mr. St. Andre, the king's surgeon
and anatomist, was despatched in the course of a day
or two, to make a further examination. He also
retnrned to the metropolis a.firm believer. The rab-
bits,"which be and Ahlers carried with them, as testi-
monies, had the honour of being dissected before his
majesty. An elaborate report of all the circumstances
relative to their production and dissection, and to
142 SltETCHES OF IMPOSTlJRE,
his visit to Godalming, was published by St. Andre,
and the public mind consequently began to be agitated
in an extraordinary manner. A furious controversy
arose between the credulous and the incredulous, in
which Whiston js said to have borne a part, by writ-
ing a pamphlet, to show that the miracle was the
exact completion of a prophecy in Esdras. .On the
other hand, the caricaturists of the incredulous faction
exerted themselves to cast ridicule on their opponents.
Among these was Hogarth, who publishedan engrav-
ing called Cunicularii, or the Wise Men of Godliman.
Though the report, by St. Andre, contained many
circumstances which were palpably calculated to excite
a suspicion of fraud, the multitude was as blind to
them as he had been. The delusion continued to
spread,,and even tile king himself was enrolled among
the believers. The rent of rabbit warrens, it is
affirmed, sunk to nothing, as no one would presume
to ea.t a rabbit. The trick was, however, on the
point of being found out. To Queen Caroline, then
Princess of Wales, is ascribed the merit of having
been active in promoting measllJ'es to undeceive the
people.
The miraculous Mary Tofts was now brought to
town, where she could be more closely watched than at
Godalming, and preventedfrom obtaining the means of
carrying on her imposture. Among those who took
a part on this occasion, the most conspicuous was
Sir Richard Manningham, an eminent physician and
Fellow of the Royal Society ; and he had at length
the satisfactiol) of detecting her. She held out, how-
ever, till her courage was shaken by a threat to
perform a dangerous operation upon her, which threat
was backea by another from a magistrate, that she
should be sent to prison. 'She then confessed, that
DECE~TlON, AND CREDULITY, 143
the fraud had been•suggested to her by a woman, who
told her, that she could put her into a way of getting
a good livelihood, without being obliged to work for
it as formerly, and promised continually to supply her
with rabbits, for which she was to receive a part of
the gain. The farce terminated by the Godalming
miracle-monger being committed to Tothill Fields'
Bridewell. _
The reputation of St. Andre, who had previously
been much in favour at court, was greatly injured by
his conduct in this affair. _The public attention had
once before been directed to him by a mysterious cir-
cumstance ; and his enemies did not fail now to advert
to that circumstance, and to charge him with having
himselfplayed the part ofan impostor. It appears that·
in February, 1724, he was summoned to visit a patient,
whom he had never before seen. The messenger led
him, in the dark, through numerous winding alleys
and passages, to a bouse in a court, where he found
the woman for whom he was to prescribe. The man,
after having introduced him, went out, and soon re-
turned with three gluses of liquor on a plate, one of
which St. Andre· was prevailed on to take ; but,
" finding the liquor strong and ill-tasted, he drank
very little of it." Before he reac.hed his home he
began to be m, and soon manifested all the symptoms
of having taken poison. The government offered a
:reward of two hundred pounds for the detection of
the offender, but be was never discovered. It was
now asserted, by the enemies of St. Andre, that the
story of having been-poisoned was a mere fabrication;
for the purpose of bringing him into practice. This,
however, could not have been the case; for the report,
signed by six eminent physicians, who attended him,
abundantly proves that be was, for nearly a fortnight,
J.44 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTUR£,
in the utmost danger, and that, according to all ap-
pearance, his sufferings were caused by poison. We
mfty, therefore, conclude that, though he was an egre-
gious dupe, with respect to Mary Tofts, he was not,
in this instance, an impostor. ·
" For when & man he&ts out hit brain•,
The devil'a in it if be feigns."
In 1749, three-and-twenty years after the exposure
of Mary Tofts, there appeared, about the middle of
January, the ensuing advertisement, which seems to
have been intended to.try how far the credulous folly
of the town might be worked upon.
"At the new theatre in the Haymarket, on Monday
next, the 16th instant, is to be seen, a person who
performs the several most surprising things following:
viz. ·first, he takes a common walking-cane from any
of the spectators, and thereon plays the music of
every instrument now ~ use, and likewise sings to
surprising perfection. Secondly, he presents you
with a common wine-bottle, which any one present
may first examine ; this bottle is placed on a table, in
the middle of the stage, and he (without any equivo-
cation) goes into ~t, in the sight of all the spectators,
and sings in it; during his stay iu the bottle, any person
may handle it, and see plainly that it does not exceed a
common tavern bottle. Those on the stage or in .the
boxes may come in masked habits (if agreeable to
them), and the performer (if desired) will inform
them who they are." The display of these wonders
was to occupy two hours and a half. The advertise-
ment also promised that the conjuror, after the per-
formance, would show to any gentlemen or ladies, for,
as Trapbois phrases it, a proper " con-si-de-ra-tion,"
DECEPTION, AND CREDUT.lTY. 145
the likeness of any deceased friend or relative, with
which they might also converse; would tell their.most
secret thoughts ; and would give them a full view of
persons, whether dead or alive, who had inj11red them.
At the same time with the above advertisement,
there came forth another, which may have either been
intended to put the public on their guard by its out·
l;J.eroding Herod, or to make their credulity, if possible,
still more glaring, in case they should accept the in-
vitation of the Bottle Conjuror. It purported to be
issued by Signor Capitello Jumpedo, lately arrived
from Italy, "a surprising dwarf, no taller than a to-
bacco-pipe," who could perform many wonderful equi·
libres on the tight and slack rope, transform his body
into above ten thousand different shapes and postures,
and who, after having diverted the spectators two
hours and a half, would " open his mouth wide, and
jump down his own throat." This most" wonderfullest
wonder of all wonders as ever the world wondered
ht,'' expressed his willingness to join in performance
with the Bottle Conjuror Musician.
Though one might suppose that nothing short of
insanity or idiocy could bring spectators on such an
occasion, yet it is certain that the theatre was
thronged with people of all degrees,, from the highest
ranks of the peerage down to such of the humblest
class as could raise two shillings for admission to the
gallery. That nothing might be wanting to try the
patience of the spectators, not a single fiddle had
been provided to amuse them. At length, tired of
waiting, they became restive ; cat-calls, vociferations,
and beating of feet and sticks on the ftoor, were
heard in discordant chorus. At this moment a man
came from behind the scenes; bowed, and announced
that, if the performer did not appear, the mone"i
L
146 SKETCHES OJ!' IMPOSTURE,
should he returned. This annunciation was suc-
ceeded by another person starting up in the pit, and
stating that, if double prices were given, the conjuror
would get into a pint bottle. This seems to have
brought the multitude to the·use of the small portion
of sense which nature had bestowed on them. They
discovered that they had been cheated, and they pre-
pared to take vengeance on the cheater. The throw-
ing of a lighted candle from one of the boxes into
the pit was the signal for riot. All who thought
that, in such cases, the better half of valour is dis-
cretion, now became anxious to secure their retreat.
A rush accordingly took place towards the doors, and
numerous were the wigs, bats, swords, canes, and
shoes, that were lost in consequence. As the more
timid part of the crowd forced their way out, the mob .
which surrounded the house forced their way in;
Joined by these allies, the party which had remained
behind began, and speedily completed, the work of
destruction. The benches were torn up, the boxes
pulled down, and the scenes broken to pieces ; the frag-
ments were then taken into the street, a huge bonfire
was made of them, and the stage-curtain was hoisted
on a pole, as a standard, above the fire. The guards
were at last sent for, but before their arrival the mob
had disappeared, leaving nothing but smoking embers
and a dismantled theatre.
Foote and others were accused of having originated
or shared in this trick ; but they disavowed any par-
ticipation in it, and there seems no reason to doubt
their veracity. Some thick-skulled bigots gravely
asserted, that it was invented by a Jesuit, "to try
how ripe the nation was to swallow the absurdities ot
transubstantiation." With more likelihood, it was
said th~t, in order to win a wager which he had laid
DECEPTION, AN]) CREDULITY. 147
respecting the extreme gullibility of the public, the
scheme was contrived by a mischievous young noble-
man.
For some time after the event, the newspapers were
filled with squibs and epigrams. Among the adver-
tisements in ridicule of the bottle-conjuror's, one of
the best purported to be from " the body-surgeon of
the Emperor of Moummungi." He thus terminated
the description of his budget of wonders : " He opens
the head of a justice of peace, takes out his brains,
and exchanges them for those of a calf; the brains of
a beau, for those of an ass ; and the heart of a bully,
for that of a sheep ; which operations render the per-
sons more rational and sociabl~ creatures than ever
they were in their lives."
In the next instance of imposture which occurred,
those who were misled could hardly be considered as
blameworthy, the circumstances being such as to ac-
count for their erroneous judgment. The case to
which allusion is here made, was that of Elizabeth
Canning, in the year 1753. This female, who was
about eighteen years of age, after having been absent
twenty-eight ·days, returned home in a squalid and
apparently half-starved condition. The story which
she told was that, as she was proceeding at night from
her uncle's to the house of the person with whom she
lived as servant, she was attacked by two men, in
Moorfields, who .first robbed her, gave her a blow on
the temple, and then dragged her along, she being
Part of the time in fits, till they reached a house of
ill-fame, kept by Susannah Wells, at Enfield Wash.
Onherarrivalthere,shewasaccostedbyagipsey,named
Mary Squires, who asked her if she would" go their
way; for if she would, she should have fine clothes."
Supposing that Squires alluded to vrostit\1.'-'.()"tl., ~~-
L 2
148 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
ning replied in the negative ; Squires, upon this, ripped
up the lace of her stays with a knife, took away the
stays, and thrust her into a back room like a hayloft,
the window of which was boarded inside. In that
room she was imprisoned for twenty-seven days ; her
only subsistence being a scanty portion of bread,
some water, and a small mince-pie, which she chanced
to have in her pocket. At last, she bethought her of
breaking down the board, after which she crept on a
penthouse, whence she dropped on the ground. She
then made the best of her way home.
Universal pity was excited by the tale of her suf.
ferings, and a subscription was raised for her. The
most violent public indignation was expressed against
the two criminals; and, while this ferment was at its
height, Wells and Squires were brought to trial. The
evidence of Elizabeth Canning, was corroborated by
that of Virtue Hall, and by various circumstances,
and the jury found both of the prisoners guilty.
Squires was condemned to death, and Wells was
ordered to be branded, and imprisoned for six months.
Squires would certainly have suffered had not Sir
Crisp Gascoyne, who was then Lord Mayor, fortu-
nately interposed in her favour. Squires herself
solemnly declared that she could bring many witnesses
to prove that she was in the West of England during
the whole of the time that was sworn to by Canning.
There were besides some startling discrepancies be-
tween Canning's evidence and the real situation of
places and things ; and, to render the matter still more
doubtful, Virtue Hall, the main prop of Canning's
story, retracted her evidence. Sir Crisp Gascoyne
succeeded in obtaining a respite for Squires, during
which time so much testimony was obtained in her
behalf, that a free pardon was granted to her. Such,
•
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 149
however, was the general prejudice in Canning's
favour, that the benevolent exertions of Sir Crisp
rendered him extremely unpopular. Floods of ink
were expended in pamphlets by her defenders, among
whom was the highly gifted author of Tom Jones.
Her opponents were equally active.
The mass of evidence against Canning at length
became so enormous, that it was resolved to put her
upon her trial for perjury. The trial lasted five days,
and more than a hundred and twenty witnesses were
examined. Upwards of forty of them were brought
forward to testify as to the movements of Squires,
and they traced her journeyings day by day, and
proved, by a chain of evidence of which not a single
link was wanting, that during the whole of the time
charged against her by Canning she was far distant
in the west of England. The story told by Canning
was also shown to be in some parts contradictory, and
in others at variance with the facts. In conclusion,
she was found guilty, and· was sentenced to seven
years transportation. In August 1754, she was con-
veyed to New England, where she is said to hal'e
married advantageously. Some time before her depar-
ture, she published a declaration in which she repeated
her charge against Squires, in spite of the triumphant
manner in which that charge had been refuted; and,
blindly faithful to her cause, many of her partisans
obstinately peraevered in asserting her innocence.
A few years subsequently to the affair of Elizabeth
Canning, there occurred an event, which amply proved
that superstition and credulity were as flourishing as
ever. In January, 1762, the whole town was thrown
into a state of excitement by the imposture whit'h bears
the name of" the Cock-lane Ghost," so called from
the place where the mummery was performed. and t.n.~
---
150 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
supposed agent in the performance. The scene in.
which the farce commenced was the bouse of one
Parsons, the parish clerk of St. Sepulchre's. As a
preliminary to the proceedings, it was reported that,
nearly two years before the affair gained notoriety,
alarming knockings and scratchings had been heard
by the daughter of Parsons, a girl about twelve years
old, and that she and others had seen, at her father's
house, the apparition of a woman, surrounded by a
blazing light. The girl, on being questioned as to
whom the apparition resembled, said it was like Mrs.
Kent, who had formerly been a lodger there, and had
died of the smallpox since her removal. The next
step was to throw out mysterious hints that Mrs. Kent
had been murdered.
These rumours were soon spread abroad, and the
credulous and the curious rushed with headlong haste
to witness the new marvels. The knockings and
scratchings had by this time become exceedingly vio-
lent. Itwas now sagely resolved that several gentlemen,
among whom a clergyman acted a prominent part,
should sit up by the bed-side of Miss Parsons, to
question the supposed ghost. As the ghost, it was
imagined, might be dumb, or have forgotten its native
tongue, the clergyman settled that it should reply by
knocks ; one knock being an affirmative answer, and
two knocks a negative. This arrangement having
been made, the ghost was interrogated, and it replied,
that it was the spirit ofa woman named Kent, who had
been poisoned.
As some persons suspected imposture, the girl was
removed from her home, and was successively put to
bed at several houses ; the number of watchers was
increased to nearly twenty, several of whom were
clergymen and ~es. Still the knockings and scratch·
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 151
ings were continued, and the same answers as before
were made to questions. At length, on being pressed
to give some proof of its veracity, the ghost consented
to attend one of the ,gentlemen into the vault, where
the body was bu1ied, and manifest its presence by a
knock upon the coffin.
When the appointed hour arrived; " the spirit was
very seriously advertised, that the person to whom
the promise was made of striking the coffin, was then
•bout to visit the vault, and that the performance of
the promise was then claimed. The company, at one,
went into the church, and the gentleman to whom the
promise was made, went, with one more, into the vault.
The spirit was solemnly required to perform its pro"
mise, but nothing more than silence ensued. The
person supposed to be accused by the ghost then
went down, with several others, but no effect was
perceived. Upon their return they examined the girl,
but could draw no confession from her. Between two
and three she desired, and was permitted, to go oome
with her father."
This want of punctuality in the ghost gave a fatal
blow to its reputation. Even the most besotted of
the believers were staggered by it. A flimsy attempt
was therefore made to restore the ghost's credit, by
asaerting that the coffin and corpse had been removed,
which, of course, had prevented the spirit from giving
the signal ; but on examination they were found to be
safe in the vault. Stricter precautions were now
taken to guard against deception being practised by
the girl ; her bed was slung like a hammock, in the
middle of the room, and she was closely watched.
Driven to her last shifts, she contrived to secrete, but
not unseen~ a bit of board previously to her being put
to bed, and having-, as she thought, secured t\:\.'1> ~~<e~·
- 152 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
sary materials for carrying on the trick, she ventured
w declare that she would bring the ghost at six the
next morning. In the morning she accordingly began
to make the accustomed sounds, and, on being asked
if she had in the bed any wood to strike upon, she
positively denied the fact. The bed-clothes were then
opened, the board was found, and this simple-process
annihilated the Cock-la,ne Ghost.
Mr. Kent, the accused person, had, in the mean
while, proved his innocence, by certificates from the
physician and apothecary who attended upon the
deceased female. The bas& attack upon his character
· appears to ha-ve been prompted by revenge. While
lodging with Parsons he had lent him some money,
which, after much forbearance, he was compelled to
recover by a suit at law. The malignant offender,
however, did not escape punishment; be, v.itb others
who had lent themselves to his imposture, being ulti-
mately brought to trial, and found gnilty of a conspi·
racy.
In 1778, the Stockwell ghost, as it was deno-
minated, spread terror in the village from whence it
derived its name, and was for some time a subject of
general conversation and wonderment. Its pranks
have been described in Sir Walter Scott's amusing
"Letters on Demonology and Witchcraft," and conse-
quently it is unnecessary to dwell upon them hen'.
For a long period after this, it would seem that
ghosts were ei*er out of fashion, or, had become
averse from exhibiting before multitudes, and were
determined to confine their efforts to the scaring of
country bumpkins. It was nottilll810 that a super·
natural case of any importance occurred. This case
was, it must be owned, far more interesting and start-
ling than its predecessors ; it having been managed
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 153
with such consummate skill as to batHe all attempts to
penetrate the mystery. The house of Mr. Chave at
Sampford Peverell, in Devonshire, was the scene on
which the wonders were acted for several months.
The spiritual agent appears to have occasionally as-
sumed the form of some non-descript animal, whieh
always eluded persuit, and to have had an extreme-
dislike of women, whom it always pummelled unmer-
cifully. The Rev. C. Colton, the author of Lacon,
who endeavoured, but in vain, to find out the cause
of the disturbance, tells us, that he examined several
females who had slept in the house, many of whom
were on oath, and they all, without exception, agreed
in affirming, that "their night's rest was invariably
destroyed by violent blows from some invisible hand,
by an unaccountable and rapid drawing and withdraw-
ing of the Curtains, by a suffocating and almost inex-
pressible weight, and by a repetition of sounds, so
loud as at times to shake the whole room." Numerous
other respectable witnesses also testified, and offered
to do so on oath, to vari<?US astonishing circumstances.
·Suspicions having been expressed that the whole was a
juggle, carried on by Mr. Chave and his servants,
they made an affidavit denying, in the most explicit
terms, any knowledge whatever ofthe manner in which
the sights and sounds were produced. A reward of
250l. was at length offered to any one who would
throw light on this obscure subject. Tempting as
· this bait was, no one came forward to seize it. After
a while the hubbub ceased; but, like Junius, the mis-
chievous disturber of Sampford Peverell remains to
this day undiscovered.
In another part of the country, a few yearl"before
the Sampford ghost began his vagaries, a fatal ex-
ample of excessive credulity was afforded by a man.?.."'-<.\.
154 SX:&TCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
his wife, named Perigo. The wife being ill, Perigo
applied _to one Mary Bateman to cure her. Bateman
declined the task, but said that she had a friend at
Scarborough,a Miss Blyth,who could" read the stars,..
and remove all ailments whether of body or mind. To
enable this reader of the stars to gain a knowledge of
the disease, it was sa,id to be necessary that the sick
· woman should send her petticoat ; it was accordingly
delivered to Bateman. There was, in truth, no such
person as Blyth; but a pretended answer from her
was read to the credulous Perigos, in which they were
told that they must communicate with her through the
medium of Bateman. As a commencement, they were
directed to give Bateman five guinea notes, who would
return an equal number in a small bag; but they were
informed that, if curiosity induced them to look into
the bag, the charm would be broken, and sudden
death would ensue. In this manner forty guineas
were at various times obtained, all of which, they were
assured, would be found in the bag when the moment
came for its being opened. Demand followed demaqd
without intermission, and still the poor deluded beings
continued to satisfy them. Clothing of all kinds, bed-
ding, a set of china, edible articles, and thirty pounds
more, were among the sacrifices which were made to
the rapacious impostor. On one occasion the ficti-
tious Miss Blyth ordered Perigo to buy her a live
goose, for the purpose of being offered up as a burnt
offering to her familiar, for the purpose of destroying
the works of darkness.
The work of darkness was, indeed, approaching to
its consummation. Beggared by the repeated calls on
his purse, Perigo began to be anxious to open the
bags, and regain possession of the contents. ·Unable
any longer to put him off, the female fiend broUS'h.t a
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. }55
packet, which she said came from Scarborough, and
contained a potent chan1,1. The contents were to be
mixed in a pudding, prepared for the purpose, and of
that pudding .no one was to eat but Perigo and his
wife. They obeyed, and the consequences were such
as might be expected. The husbandate sparingly, for
he disliked the taste, and he escaped with only suffer-
ing severe torture ; the wife fell a victim. .
It will scarcely be believed that, so deeply rooted
was her credulity, the unfortunate woman, even when
sbe was almost in her death agony, extorted from her
husband a promise to follow the directions of the
murderess. Two or three days after the wife had
ceased to exist, a letter c~e, pretending to be from
Miss Blyth, which seemed more like the composition
of an incarnate demon than of a human being. In-
stead of expressing the slightest sorrow, it attributed
the death of the woman to her having dared to touch
the bags ; and it added a threat which was not un-
likely to send a weak-minded man to join his murdered
partner : " 1nasmuch as your wife," said the writer,
''has done this wicked thing, she shall rise from the
grave; stroke your face with the cold hand of death ;
and you shall lose the use of one side."
Had his blood been anything but snow-broth, so
much injury and insult must have roused him. But
the wretched gull long persisted to yield a blind obe-
dience to his infamous deceiver, who fleeced him with-
out mercy. It was not till he was rendered desperate.
by the threats of his creditors, that he ventured to
open the bags. He, of course, found them filled with
trash. His neighbour-s, to whom he bewailed his hard
fate, were possessed of more courage and sense than
he was, and they carried Mary Bateman before a
magistrate. She was committed for the murder of the
156 ·sKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
wife, was found guilty at York assizes, and suffered on
the gallows the penalty of her crime.
The next character who claims our attention, though
living for a great part of his life under a disguise,
must not be branded as an impostor. The person al-
luded to is the celebrated Chevalier, generally known
as Madam, D'Eon. This remarkable individual, who
was hom at Tonnerre, in France, in 1728, was of a
good family. D'Eon was a man of brilliant parts, a
writer by no means contemptible on various subjects,
an accomplished diplomatist, and a brave officer. At
one period he was minister plenipotentiary to the
British court. A bitter quarrel with the Count de
Guerchy,who succeeded him as ambassador,is assigned
as the reason for his not returning to France. It is
probable, however, that the real cause of his stay in
this country was his acting as private agent of Louis
the Fifteenth, by whom he was allowed a pension.
D'Eon continued to reside in London for fourteen
years, and was in habits of friendship with the most
distinguished persons.
Now comes the mystery; which still remains, and
perhaps must ever remain, unsolved. Rumours, at
first faint, but daily acquiring strength, had long been
floating about, that D'Eon was a woman. There
were certain feminine indications in.his voice and per-
son, and he was known to be averse from all affairs of
gallantry, and to manifest extreme caution with
respect to females. At length it began to be general-
ly believed, both in England and France, that he bad
no title to wear the dress of a male. Wagers, to a
large amount, were laid upon this subject; and, in
1777, one of them produced an indecent trial before
Lord Mansfield. " The action was brought by Mr.
Hayes, surgeon, against Jacques, a broker and under-
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 157
writer, for the recovery of seven hundred pounds ;
Jacques having, about six years before, received pre-
miums of fifteen guineas per cent., for every one of
which he stood engaged to return a hundred guineas,
whenever it should be proved that the Chevalier
D'Eon was actually a woman." In this cause, three
seemingly unexceptionable witnesses, two of whom
were of the medical profession, positively swore that
they had obtained such proofas admitted ofno contra•
diction that D'Eon was of the female sex. A verdict
was in consequence given for the plaintiff; but it
was afterwards set aside on a point of law.
The humiliating manner in which, by this trial, he
was brought before the English public induced D'Eon
to quit England. But it is a singular circumstance ·
that M. de Vergennes, one of the French ministers,
in a letter which he wrote to D'Eon, declared it to be
the king's will that he " should resume the dress of
his sex,"-meaning the dreBB of a woman-and that
this injunction was repeated on the Chevalier arriving
in France. It was obeyed, and, till the end ofhis long
life, D'Eon dressed, and was looked upon, as one of
the softer sex. Early in the French revolution, be
returned to England, still as a female, and remained
here till his decease in 1810. Death proved the folly
of those who had forced him into petticoats ; for his
manhood was placed beyond all doubt by an ana-
tomical examination of the body. Why he was meta-
morphosed, and why he continued to acquiesce in the
change when he might have safely asserted his ses,
there appear to be no means of discovering.
A being of a far different stamp comes next before
us ; Charles Price, nicknamed Patch, a man wLo
applied talents of no common order to the vilest pur-
poses. He was possessed of courage, penetration,
158 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
foresight, and presence of mind, and he degraded all
these qualities by rendering them subservient to fraud.
No man ever was so perfect a master of the art of
disguise. Price, who was the son of a clothesman in
Monmouth street~ was not out of his boyhood when he
began to manifest his skill in cheating. When he was
nn apprentice, he put on the garb ofa gentleman, as-
sumed the name of Bolingbroke, and defrauded .his
master of a large quantity of goods. So wel! did he
act his part, that his master did not know him, and,
when Price returned home, he was ordered to carry
the goods to the pretended Mr. Bolingbroke. His
dishonest practices were at last detected, and he ran
away. For this conduct his father disinherited him.
Price was afterwards a valet, and went the tour of
Europe with Sir Francis Blake Delaval. While he
was at Copenhagen, he wrote a pamphlet in vindica-
tion of the unfortunate Queen Matilda. He was sub-
sequently a brewer, a distiller, an inmate of the kingl's
bench for having defrauded the revenue, a lottery-
office keep~r, and a gambler in the Alley. His plau-
sible manners gained for him a wife with a conside-
rable fortune, but he soon dissipated the money.
About 1780, he began'to.forge upon the Bank. To
deteet him was difficult, for he made his own paper,
with the proper water-marks, manufactured his own
ink, engraved his own plates, and, as far as possible,
was his own negotiator. His career, in spite of every
effort to arrest it, was continued for six years ; in the
oourse of which time he is said to have assumed no
less than forty-five disguises ~ he was by turns thin,
corpulent, active, decrepit, blooming with health, and
sinking under disease. At last, in 1786, he was com-
mitted to Tothill-fields Bridewell, where, to escape
the shame of a public execution, he put a period to
his existence.
DECEPTION, .AND CREDULITY. 159
Numerous instances might be adduced ofindividuals,
gifted with abilities far inferior to those of Price, who
have levied contributions to an enormous amount upon
the credulity of the public. It must suffice to give a
specimen of them :-one was Miss Robertson, of
Blackheatb, who, by representing herself as having
had a large estate bequeathed to her, contrived to
make a multitude of egregious dupes ; another was an
adventurer known as " The Fortunate Youth," who
employ-ed a similar pretence, and was equally success-
ful. A third, whose pretension took a higher flight,
must not be forgotten. The late Mrs. Serres, who
assumed the title of Princess Olive of Cumber-
land, and pretended also to be descended from a line
of Polish princes, has secured for herself a conspicuous
place in the annals of imposture.
The most amusing, and perhaps the· least noxious,
of modern cheats, was a female, who assumed the
name of Caraboo. She pretended to be a native of
Javasu, in the Indian Ocean, and to have been car-
ried off by pirates, by whom she had been sold to the
r.aptain of a brig. Her first appearance was in the
spring of 1817, at Almondsbury, in Gloucestershire.
Having been ill used on board the ship, she hadjumped
overboard, she said, swam· on shore, and wandered
about for six weeks before she came to Almondsbury.
The deception was tolerably well sustained for t;wo
months ; but, at the end of that time, she disappeared,
probably being aware that she was on the point ofbeing
d~ted. It was found that she was a native of Wi-
theridge, in Devonshire, where her father was a
cobbler. Caraboo appears to have taken flight to
America. How she_fared in that quarter of the
world is not known ; but, in 1824; she returned to
England, and hired apartments in·New Bond-street,
160 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
where she exhibited herself to the public. She seems
to have excited little attention, and was soon for-
gotten.
A very frequent case of imposture bas been that of
women pretending to have the power of going with-
out food, and to have fasted for two, or three, or more
years. Irksome and distressing as such a deceit
must be, it bas often been carried on, for a short time,
so dexterously as to lull the suspicions of those around,
who, being thus thrown. off their guard, were satisfied
that the abstinence, which perhaps was really perse-
vered in for a short time, could be prolonged to any
indefinite period.
Margaret Senfrit, the girl of Spires, was believed
to have fasted three years. Catherine Binder, after
continuing an alleged fast for five years, was sepa·
rated from her parents, and placed under the care of
four women, who affirmed that she bad not eaten or
drunk anything for fourteen days, but bad washed
her mouth with brandy and water, to comfort her head
and heart.
A young girl of Unna, who was said to have re-
mained without eating or drinking for six months,
was closely watched ; the first night after her removal
she was caught drinking a large cup of ale.
About 1800, the Osnaburggirl created great specu-
lation. She bad fa8ted, by report, a long time.
Doubts arising, she was watched, and escaped the
ordeal with her integrity unimpeached ; but, a second
watching having been undertaken by two medical
men, her tricks were soon discovered.
Between 1808 and 1813, considerable interest was
excited by various notices, in the newspapers and
journals, respecting a woman of the name of Moore,
living at Tutbury, in Staffordshire, who, from long
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 161
illness and other causes, was reported to have lost all
desire for food, and at length acquired the art of
living without any nourishment at aU. No great
alteration was visible in her ·appearance, her memory
was very strong, and her piety extremely edifying.
Being backed by medical testimony, the account was
received as entitled to some credit; but all doubts
were removed by watching the patient for sixteen
days and nights, which took place in September,
1808. From that time she attracted crowds of
visiters, from all parts of the country, who witnessed
her condition with a sort of religious awe, and seldom
quitted her without exercising their generosity towards
her. Dr. Henderson visited her in 1812, in com·
pany with Mr. Lawrence: She was in bed, with a.
large Bible before her; she asserted she had tasted no
solid food for upwards of five years, and no drink for
., four, and had no desire for either; and that she had
not slept or lain down in bed for more than three.
They left her, fully satisfied, from certain circum-
stances, that the history of her long fasting was a
mere fabrication ; and Dr. Henderson adduced many
arguments to prove the absurdity of the imposture.
The greatest wonder in the history was the blind infa-
tuation of those who could for an inatant entertain an
idea of its truth. ·
Her dread of the repetition of the watching was a
very suspicious circumstance, and seemed to imply
that she had narrowly escaped detection ; she said,
that for nobody in the world would she undergo a re-
petition: her attendant styled it "a trial for her life."
Yet watching her for a fortnight, though sufficiently
irksome, could have had nothing alarming, unless it
involved the risk of starvation, which, it was after-
wards proved, it did in reality.
M
r...
162 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
At the earnest solicitation of the Rev. Legh Rich-
mond, she, however, consented to undergo another
watching, ·assenting to its propriety as necessary to
the establishment of truth. In April 181:)., the watch
was commenced by a committee of nineteen gentle-
men, four remaining at one time in the room. She
caught a severe cold whilst removing her from her
bed, and at the end of a week she had a very serioua
attack of fever. On the ninth day she thought her-
self dying, and was very anxious to make an affidavit
as to her innocence of all imposition. With great
solemnity, she said, " In the face of Almighty G~
and on my dying bed, I declare that I have used no
deception, and that for six years I have taken nothing
but once, the inside of a few black currants ; for the
last four years and a half, nothing at all." In spite of
this protestation, strong suspidons of fraud were ex-
cited, and, finally, evidence of guilt and falsehood were
discovered. Concealment was now useless, and at
last she publicly expressed her contrition for her long-
continued imposture.
At one time, two hundred pounds, from the contri-
butions of a wondering and credulous population, was
placed for her in the hands of two respectable persons
in the town; but this sum was subsequently with-
drawn. The total amount of what she received was
not known ; but, as her children and one or two at-
tendants lived with her during the six years of decep•
uon, it must have been pretty considerable.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 163
CHAPTER XI.
LlTBIU.RY IMPOSTORS, AND DISGUISES.
Controversy respecting the Works of Homer; Arguments of the
Disputants-Controversy on the supposed Epistles of Phala.ris-
Opinion of Sir William Temple on the Superiority of the An-
cients-Dissertation of Dr. Bentley on the Epistles of Phalaris-
He proves them to be a Forgery-Doubts as to the Anabasia
being the Work of Xenophon-Argumenta of Mr. Mitford in
1: the Affirmative-Aicyonius accnsed of having plagiariscd from,
ad destroyed, Cicero's Treatise "De Gloria"-Curious Mistake
as to Sir T. More's Utopia-The Icon Baailike-Disputes to
which it gave rise--Arguments,. pro and con, as to the real Au-
tho~ of it-Lander's Attempt to prove Milton a Plagiarist-Re-
futation of him by Dr. Douglas--His Interpolations-George
Poalmanazar-IDs Account of Formosa-His Repentance and
Piety-Publication of OBSian's Poems by Mr. Macpheraon-
Tbeir Authenticity is doubted-Report of the Highland Society
on the Subject--Pseudonymous and anonymous Works-Letters
of Junius-The Drapier's Letters-Tale of a Tub-Gulliver's
Travela-Tbe Waverley Nevels-Chatterton and the Rowley
Poems-W. H. Ireland and th!l Sbakspearian Forgeries-Dam-
berger's pretended Travels-Poems of Clotilda de Surville-
Walladmor-Hunter, the American-Danville's Travels in
Africa.
THE history of literature, from the earlie.st times,
has recorded singular instances of imposture and un-
acknowledged plagiarism; in many of which, the talent
necessary to design, as well as the perseverance to
develop, the proposed fraud, were worthy of a better
direction.
In the opinion of the learned critic, Dr. Bentley,
the practice of writing spurious books is almost as old
as letters themselves; but that it chie:fty prevailed.
when the kings of Pergamus and Alexandria, rivalling
one another in the magnificence and copiousness of
their libraries, gave great prices for _treatises that had
the names of celebrated authors attaohed to them.
M2
164 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
Modern critics have, with much learned ingenuity,
reasoned upon the possibilities il.nd probabilities of the
celebrated poems of the Iliad and Odyssey not being
. the performance of one man. Though, at this dis-
tance of time, the question must be settled rather by
individual conviction, than received as a decided point
in the history of literature ; yet still it may not be .
uninteresting to state the arguments which have been
brought forward against the authenticity of Homer's
poems, or rather against the existence of Homer him-
self.
Fabricius has collected a number of fragments and
accounts of authors who have been supposed more •
ancient than Homer ; most of these, however, have
.been regarded by the learned as forgeries, originating
in the love of gain, and encouraged by the credulity
of the Greeks.
It bas been maintained, that neither theIliad nor the
Odyssey is the work of a single mind, but a collection
of the songs ofthe wandering rhapsodists, as they were
called, and, for the first time, completely arranged at
Athens under the inspection of Pisistratus, or his son.
Pisistratus is mentioned by lElian as the compiler of
the Iliaci and the Odyssey. This theory reduces
Homer to a name merely; or, at best, as only one
bard more celebrated than the rest, or, perhaps, as
nothing more than a successful reciter. This idea
respecting the authenticity of the above poems, was
again started, about the close of the seventeenth cen-
tury, by Perrault and others, but was received with
derision by the learned world.
More recently, it bas been again advocated, with
great learning, by Heyne ; and, with wonderful acute-
ness, by Professor Wolf, of Berlin.
It appears from the bestaccounts, that these poems,
. DECEPTION, 4ND CREDULITY. 165
said to be'the production of Homer, were first brought
into Greece by Lycurgus ; who had heard them in
the course of his travels among the Chians, by means,
of the recitation of their rhapsodists; nor were they
then in that perfect form in which they were after-
wards presented by Pisistratus, to whom the credit of
the arrangement appears to have been generally given
by Cicero and others. ·
The arguments used by Wolf and Heyne are,
firstly, the improbability that in such a dark age, as
that in which Homer is reputed to have lived, and of
which so few traces are left, one man should have
been capable of composing works of such extent, con-
sistency, and poetical elevation, as the Iliad or Odyssey.
Secondly, that poems of such a length 11hould have
been composed, and preserved entire, without being
committed towriting. Now there is not the least trace,
even in tradition, of any complete copy of Homer's
works, till the existence of the Athenian edition, or
at least of that of Lycurgus. No notice is taken in
the poems of any epistolary correspondence-, though
in the Odyssey many opportunities occur where such
might have ~n introduced.
Thirdly, the Greek alphabet was not received at
Athens till the ninety-fourth Olympiad, that is, about
four hundred and three years before Christ, whereas
the works of Homer were dated from the nine hun-
dred and seventh year before Christ. The writing
materials also must have been scanty and inadequate
to the preservation of a poem of fifteen thousand
lines; stone and metal being the only materials on
which, in early times, characters were imprinted.
Fourthly, in these ancient poem11, no reference is
ever made to written treaties ; treaties being then
only verbal, and ratified by superstitious rites.
166 SKETCHES OE IMPOSTURE,
Fifthly,. the rhapsodists flourished in the earliest
times, answering to the Celtic bards in our history;
and all who followed this profession recited from
memory ; by the exercise of which faculty they
derived honour and emolument. Without the modem
aids to composition, how, it was asked, could any poet
keep the plan, or previous part of his design, in his
recollection ? or, if that were possible, could he have
ever expected to procare an audience, to whom such
a work should be submitted ?
It is more than probable, that the original poems,
or series of poetical sketches, were exposed to perpe-
tual variation, from passing through the heads of the
rhapsodists ; many of whom were, doubtless, also
poets, and who, in the warmth of recitation, would
make changes unconsciously, or, perhaps, purposely
introduce them, to produce greater effect on their
hearers. - From lElian we learn that anciently the
books of the Iliad or Odyssey were never recited in
the order in which they now stand.
The above form the chief grounds of argn-
ment used by those who are anxious to disturb -
our natural belief, as it were, of the integrity
of Homer's poems. On the contrary side, it is as-
serted, that other untau~ht poets have arisen, who,
without the aid of external culture, have breathed the
-tenderest and most beautiful thoughts in poetry ; and
it is_ also urged, that, granting the sublimity of
Homer's poems as they stand, it is necessary, if we
adopt the opponent system, to come to the belief that,
in a barbarous age, instead of one being marvellously·
gifted with poetical powers, there were many, a com-
plete race of bards, such as has never been since seen.
The objection arising from the ignorance of letters,
and want of writing materials, has been considered
DBCEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 167
more fonnidable; but so much uncertainty attends
the account of the introduction of letters into Greece,
that it must undoubtedly have been of high antiquity.
That the memory of the reciter should be capable
of retaining the whole poem does not appear so incre-
dible in those times, when the minds of men were
not distracted by_the attempt to attain a variety of
Jmowledge ; for it is well known, that the constant and
sole exercise of a single faculty gives it a great per-
fection.
The great uniformity of style in these poems has
been considered as strong internal evidence that they
were the production of an individual genius ; the same
epithets and similes prevail throughout. Interpo-
lation may have occurred, but not sufficiently to af-
fect the authority of the whole. Pindar, and other
early poets, speak of Homer as one man, as do also
the historians Herodotus and Thucydides. ·
- It has, indeed, been maintained by some, that the
Odyssey is the work of a different poet, because the
i~s and descriptions evidently belong to a later
period than those of the Iliad ; and from allusions
made to the arts it appears th~t they must have made
a greater progress than could reasonably have taken
place during the life of one man, even granting the
supposition that the Iliad was the work of Homer's
youth, and the Odyssey that of his maturer years.
This is probably one of the most forcible objections
which has been urged against the belief that the Iliad
and the Odyssey are the work of one poet. As is
often the case, however, in these doubtful questione,
where direct evidence cannot possibly be obtained,
much may be said on both sides ; and the matter
must probably ever remain a matter of curious literary
-speculation•
.The following ancient literary nau.d. ..~ \.~'\-~·
168 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
gated and exposed by the extraordinary learning and
diligence of Dr. Bentley, who, in the year 1697, com-
menced the famous controversy about the epistles of
Phalaris, and the fables of lEsop. .
Sir William Temple, in comparing the intellectual
pretensions of the ancients and modems, declared for
the ancients, and fortified his judgments by alleging,
that the epistles of Phalaris, and the fables of lEsop,
were proofs that the older parts of literature were the
best ; though, even at that time, these works had been
challenged as forgeries. The Honourable Charles
Boyle at this period having resolved to undertake an
edition of the Epistles of Phalaris, as an academic ex-
ercise, Wotton, who was preparing a second edition of
his work on " Ancient and Modern Learning," re-
quested Dr. Bentley to write a paper, to expose the
spurious pretensions of Phalaris and lEsop. This
paper met with violent opposition from Mr. Boyle,
which determined Dr. Bentley to set about the refu-
tation in good earnest. It will be impossible, within
the narrow limits of this sketch, to follow the 1Eljll1led
criticism, discussion, and wordy war, between Mr.
Boyle and Dr. Bentley, in proof of, and against, the
authenticity of the above epistles. It must be suffi-
cient to state, that Dr. Bentley's arguments rest upon
many grammatical niceties and anachronisms, and
on the use of certain Doric and Attic dialects, which
came into use later than the supposed period of their
composition. His arguments, all supported by innume-
rable quotations, which form an immense mass of
evidence, have not failed to convince most persons of
his profound erudition, as well as of the justness ofhis
opinion.
It may be worth while, in this place, to mention a
doubt, that has been promulgated by some modern
critics, whether the Anabasis, or retreat of the ten
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 169
thousand Greeks, is really the work of Xenophon, to
whom it has most generally been attributed; or,
whether it ill the composition of one Themistogenes.
In Xenophon's Annals of Grecian History, instead of
giving any account of the expedition of Cyrus, and
the return of the army, he refers the reader to the ac-
count which he ascribes to Themistogenes of Syracuse.
Such an account might then possibly be extant, though
the mention by Xenopbon is the sole evidence that it
was so ; but it by no means follows that the Anabasis
itself was written by Themistogenes ; and, from the
age of Xenophon to that of Suidas, no mention of
such an author occurs in any remaining work, nor
was any doubt expressed as to Xenophon being the
author of the Anabasis, till Suidas thought proper to
controvert the generally received opinion.
The problem is·wellsolved by Mr. Mitford. "Why
then, it will of course occur to ask," says he," did Xe-
nophon, in his Grecian Annals, refer to the work of
Themistogenes ? Plutarch, in his treatise on the Glory
of the Athenians, has accounted for it thus : ' Xe-
nophon,' he says, •was a subject of history for himself.
But when he published his narrative of his own
achievements in military command, be ascribed it to
Themistogenes of Syracuse;· giving away thus the
literary reputation to arise from the work, that he
might the better establish the credit of the facts re-
lated.'-
" ThiS explanation, though I give it credit as far·as
it goes, is, however, not by itself completely satisfac-
tory. Nevertheless, I think every reader of the Ana-
basis, attending, at the same time, to the general
history of the age, may draw, from the two, what is
wanting to complete it. He cannot fail to observe,
that it bas been a principal purpose of the author of
..
170 SX:ETCHES Oll' IMPOSTURE,
the Anabasis to apologise for the conduct ofXenopbon.
In the latter part of the work, the narrative is con-
stantly accompanied with a studied defence of· hit
conduct; in which, both the circumstances that pro-
duced his banishment from Athens, and whatever
might give umbrage or excite jealousy against him
at Lacedremon, have been carefully considered. But
there are passages in·the work, speeches of Xenophon
himself on delicate occasions, particularly his commu-
nication with Cleander, the Lacedremonian general,
related in the sixth book, which could be known only
from himself or from Cleander. That these have not
been forgeries of Themistogenes, is evident from the
testimony of Xenophon himself, who refers to the
work, which he ascribes to Themistogenes, with en-
tire satisfaction.
" One, then, of these three conclusions must follow :
either, first, the narrative of Themistogenes, if such
ever existed, bad not in it that apology for Xenophon,
which we find interwoven in the Anabasis transmitted
to us as Xenophon's, and consequently was a different
work ; or, secondly, Themistogenes wrote under the
direction of Xenophon; or, thirdly, Xenopbon wrote
the extant Anabasis, and, for renons, which those ac-
quainted with the circumstances ofhis life, and the his-
tory of the times, will have no difficulty to conceive
may have been powerful, chose that, on its first pub.
lication, it should pass by another's name. The latter
has been the belief of all antiquity ; and indeed, if it
had not been fully known that the ascription of the
Anabasis to Themistogenes was a fiction, the concur-
rence of all antiquity, in stripping that author of his
just fame, so completely that, from Xenophon himself
to Suidas, he is never once named as an author of
merit, in any work remaining to us, while, in so many,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 171
the Anabasis is mentioned as the work of Xenophon,
would be, if at all credible, certainly the most extra-
ordinary circumstance in the history of letters."
A fraud, which perhaps occasioned the greatest
regret that ever was felt in the literary world, has
been attributed to Peter Alcyonius, one of the learned
Italians who cultivated literature in the sixteenth
century. He had considerable knowledge of the Greek
and Latin tongues, and wrote rhetorical treatises. He
was a long time corrector of the press at Venice, in
the house ofAldus Manutius, and ought to participate
in the praises given to that eminent printer and clas-
.iical scholar. He translated some treatises ofAristotle
into Latin; but the execution of them was so severely
criticised by Sepulveda, that Alcyonius, at a great
expense, bought up the criticisms of his Spanish
enemy to bum them. Paul Jovius says of him, in
his quaint language, that he was a ~an of downright
plebeian and sordid manners, and such a slave to his
appetite, that in one and the same day he would dine
three or four times, but always at the expense of
another; nor was he altogether so bad a physician in
this beastly pl'llCtice, since, before he went to bed, he
discharged the intemperate load from his stomach.
Alcyonius pnbliahed a treatise, " De Exilio,'' con-
taining many fine passages ; so elegant in fact was it,
that he was accused of having tacked several parts of
Cicero " De Gloria'' to his own composition, and
then, to prevent being convicted of the theft, thrown
the manuscript of Cicero, which was the only one in
the world, into the fire. Cicero, in his twenty-seventh
epistle, fifteenth book, writing to Atticus, says, " I
will speedily send you my b!>ok, ' De Gloria.'" That
the manuscript was extant till nearly the period in
.question would seem to be indubitable, as it was enu-
L.
172 SKETCHES OJ!' IMPOSTURE,
merated by Bernard Giustiniani, the learned govemor
ofPadua, among the works which he possessed. Along
with the rest of his library, it is said to have been
bequeathed to a convent of nuns, but from that time
it could never be found. It was believed by many,
that Peter Alcyonius, who was physician to the mo~
nastery, and to whom the nuns entrusted the manage-
ment of the library, having copiedinto his own treatise
all that suited his purpose, from that of Cicero, had
secretly made away with it. This charge was first
brought against Alcyonius by Paul Manutius, and was
repeated by Paul Jovius, and subsequently by other
writers ; but Tiraboschi seems to have demonstrated
that it is a calumny. It is probable that it was pro-
voked by the excessive vanity and propensity to aar~
casm and satire which distinguished Alcyonius.
When the Utopia of Sir Thomas More was fi.nt
published, it occasioned a pleasant mistake. This
political romance represents a perfect but visionary
republic, in an island supposed to have been recently
discovered in America. ·cc As this was the age of
discovery (says Granger), the learned Budams, and
othen, took it for a genuine history, and considered
it highly expedient that missionaries should be sent
thither, in order to convert so wise a nation to Chris-
tianity."
· No literary performance has ever been the occasion
of more discussion or dispute, as to its authenticity,
than one which was published by the royalist party to
excite the public pity for Charles I. On the day
after that monarch's execution appeared a volume,
called Icon Basilike, or the Portraiture of his Sacred·
Majesty, in his Solitude and Sufferings. It professed
to be from the pen of Charles himselC, and a faithful
exposition of his own thoughts on the principal events
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY·. 173
of his reign, accompanied with such pious effusions as
the recollection suggested to his mind.
It was. calculated to create a strong sensation in
favour of the royal sufferer, and is said to have passed
through fifty editions in the course of the first year.
During the Commonwealth, Milton made an at-
tempt to disprove the king's claim to the composition
of the book, but his arguments were by no means
conclusiw, as the subsequent publications on the
same subject proved. After the restoration, Dr.
Gauden, a clergyman of Hocking in Essex; came for-
ward, and declared himself the real author ; but he
advanced his· pretensions with secresy, and received
as the price of his silence, first, the bishopric of
Exeter, and subsequently, when he complained of the
poverty of that see, the richer one of Worcester.
After his death, these circumstances transpired,
and became the subject of an interesting controversy
between his friends, and the admirers of Charles the
First. The subsequent publication of the Clarendon
papers, has, in the opinion of Dr. Lingard, firmly
established Gauden's claim; but Dr. Wordsworth, in
the year 1824, adjudged it to the king, in 'his work
called " Who wrote Eikon Basilike ?" In this, he
learnedly combats the opinions of all the late contro-
versialists on that subject. This drew forth replies
from the Reverend Henry Todd, and " additional
reasons" from the Reverend Mr. Broughton, in
favour of Gauden's claim.
Dr. Wordsworth, in a" postscript," again answered
his antagonists, and summed up the evidence by say-
ing, t~at not any convincing arguments in favour of
Gauden's claim had been brought forward against his
-Dr. Wordsworth's-but which, by negative evi-
dence, rathe~ strengthened his side of the o..u('AU.(>'I.l...
174 .SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
In a short abstract or analysis of so voluminous a
subject it can only be stated, that it seems hardly
credible, that Gauden could have proposed to write,
or could have completed, the Icon, labouring under
the disadvantages he did. He was not a royal chap-
lain, nor appears to have been much connected with
the court ; nor ever to have had intercourse with the
king, but once, when he preached before him ; yet, in
a sudden fit of zeal, he took upon himself the com•
position of a series of reflections in the name of the
king, on the events of the last seven years of his
reign ; and that without even any communication·
being made to the royal party ; or any suggestion re-
ceived from .them that it would be acceptable; whilst
any discovery made by the opposite party would be
followed by his certain ruin.
The evidence found in the book itself seems of a
nature to disprove its being composed on the spur of
the moment, or during the last act of the fatal drama,
three fourths of it being devoted to events having
no near connection with the emergency of the time';
in fact, only the last six chapte.rs treat of those sub-
jects which were likely to have occupied the public
attention at that period.
The tone of observation in general is such as,
judging from his other works, it does not appear pro-·
bable Gauden would have ventured to indulge in;
habitual caution being visible in his other political
writings. His fraudulent qlaim for remuneration after
royalty was restored, being recompensed by a moderate
promotion, does not, of necessity, prove its justice ; aa
many reasons concurred, why the royal party should
wish to hush up any reports t.hat might tend to reflect
upon the late king's memory; nor at that time could
the fact be susceptible ofactual proof.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 175
These several circumstances, in Dr. Wordsworth's
opinion, make it more than probable that Gauden.'s
claim was, in reality, what so many other learned
persons have concurred in supposing, a literary
imposture, which at the time met with undeserved
success.
·Literary imposture, in our own times, appears to
have flourished most from the middle to the latter
end of the eighteenth century ; for, within forty years
of that period, various very remarkable frauds in the
commonwealth of letters were ushered into day, and
the attention of the public was solicited to them, with
all the boldness that a perfect conviction of their real
worth and genuine authenticity, on the part of those
who promulgated them, could possibly have inspired.
The first of these, in point of time, and intensity of
malignant and selfish audacity, was the unpardonable
attack made, about the year 1750, by a Mr. Lauder,
on the poetical character and moral candourof Milton.
The first regular notice the public received of his
intention was from the following circular, which deve-
loped his plan of attack :
"I have ventured to publish the following observa-
tions on Milton's imitation of the moderns ; having
lately fallen on four or five modern authors in
Latin verse, which I have reason to believe Milton
had .consulted in composing his Paradise Lost. The
novelty of the subject will entitle me to the favour
of the reader, since I in no way intend unjustly to
derogate from the real merit of the writer. The first
author alluded to was Jacobus Masenius. He was
a professor of rhetoric, in the Jesuits' College, at
Cologne, about 1650, and he wrote Sarcotis, in
five books; which, said he, in the preface,.is not so
much a complete model, as a rough draught of an
176 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
epic poem. Milton follows this author tolerably
closely through the first two books. In it Adam and
Eve are described under the single name of Sar-
cothea, or human nature, whose antagonist, the in-
fernal serpent, is called Lucifer. The infernal council,
or Pandemonium, Lucifer's habits, and the fight of
the angels, are too obvious not to have been noticed ;
Milton's. exordium appears to have been almost di-
rectly taken from Masenius and Ramsay." Lauder
goes on to state that the Paradise Lost was taken
from a farce, called Adamo Perso, and from an ltaliail
tragedy, called Paradiso Perso ; and that even Mil-
ton's poem itself was said to have been written for a
tragedy.
" Having procured," continues he, 11 the Adamus'
Exul of Grotius *, I found, or imagined myself to find
the first draught, the p1·ima stamina, of this wonder-
ful poem ; and I was then induced to search for the
collateral relations it might be supposed to have con-
• This learned man, embracing and supportin'g the doctrines of
Arminius, was doomed, among other divines, at the national synod
of Dort, in 1618, to perpetual imprisonment in the castle of Lou-
vestein. Grotius found consolation in literary occupation ; and,
though his confinement wns rigorous, he derived every comfort from
the attention• of biB wife, who after some difficulty was allowed to
vioit him. The fond care of this woman at last procured hia deli-
verance, after a captivity of two years; for, on pretence ofremoving
his books, which she declared had proved injurious to hia health,
abe was permitted to send away a chest, three feet and a half long,
in which he had concealed himself, and was thus carried ·by two
soldiers from the fortress. It ia curious that their auapiciona should
not have been excited; for, whilst carrying the cheat, they com.
plained one to the other of the weight, aaying jestingly, that it wu
aa heavy aa if an Armlnian had been in it. From Louveatein the
chest waa carried to Gorcum, to the house of a friend, where the
learned prisoner was set at liberty, and be immediately e~e~~ped
from thence to Antwerp, disguised aa a mason with a rule and
trowel.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 177
tracted in its progress to maturity." , The Adamus
Exul of Grotius was never printed with his other
works, though it passed through four editions ; and
it was by very great labour that Mr. Lauder was at
last able to get a copy .from Gr{)novius, at Leyden.
Milton is charged with having literally translated,
rather than barely alluded to, this work.
The severe aftl.it!tion which Milton endured, in the
loss of Bight, obliged him to have recourse to filial aid,
in cons.ulting such authors as he had occasion to refer
to ; and Lauder, wishing to prove that he feared de-
tection and exposure, asserted, that he taught his
daughters only to read the several languages, in which
his authorities were written, confining. them to the
knowledge of words and pronunciation, but keeping
the sense and meaning to himself.
Apparently feeling a momentary shame at his con-
duct, Lauder, in a kind of apology, added, "As I am
sensible this will be deemed most outrageous usage of
the divine, immortal Milton, the prince of English
poets, and the incomparable author of Paradise Lost,
I take this opportunity to declare, that a 1trict regard
to truth alone•,-and to do justice to those authors
from whom Milton has so liberally gleaned, without
acknowledgment,-have induced me to make this
attack upon the reputation and memory of a person
• Thia lover of truth, at the ·commencement of hit pamphlet,
with conaummate aaaurance thua propoaea bimaelf aa a private
tutor : " Gentlemen who are deairoua lo •ecure tbeir children from
ill e:umple, by a domeatic education, or are themaelvea inclined to
gain or retrieve the knowledge of the Latin tongue, may be waited
on at their honaea, by the author of the following eaaay, upon the
receipt of a letter directed to tbe publisher or author.-N.B. Mr.
Lander"• abilitiea, and industry in his profeuion, can be well at-
teated by penona of the fu'8t rank in literature in thia metropolia "
N
178 EKETCHES OF IMFOSTUiU:,
hitherto so universally applauded and admired for his
incomparable poetical abilities."
Dr. Douglas, to whom the world is indebted for
investigating and detecting Lauder's baseness, vindi-
cated Milton from the injustice of the charge, in an
answer full of diligent reseal"Ch ofthose authors who
were said to have furnished Milton with materials for
his poem.
Dr. Douglas commences by saying, " Our Zoilus
charges Milton with having borrowed both the plan
of his poem, aud also particular passages, from other
authors. Should these charges even prove true, will
it follow that his pretensions to genius are disproved?
The same charge might be brought against Virgil ;
as there is scarcely a passage in his lEneid but is
taken from the Iliad or Odyssey. There is no shadow
of truth in the assertion made by Lauder, that infinite
tribute of veneration had been paid_to Milton, through
men's ignorance of his having been indebted tO the
assistance of other authors, when, on the contrary,
those very persons who gave him the greatest praise
were the principal discoverers of many ofhis imitations.
" It did not enter my head," continues Dr. Douglas,
"that our critic could have the assurance to urge false
quotations in support of his charge ; and therefore.
did I, and, as I imagine, did every other person, be-
lieve, that the authors he quoted really contained
those lines which he attributed to them, and which
bear so striking a resemblance to passages in Paradise
Lost, that the reader cannot avoid conduding, with
Lauder, that Milton had really seen and imitated
them. Will it not, therefore, be thought extra-
ordinarily strange, and excite the utmost indignation
in every candid person's breast, if the reverse of all
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 179
this shall appear to be the case ; if it ean be clearly
proved that our candid conscientioUs critic, whose
notions of morality taught him to accuse Milton of
the want of common probity or honour for having
boasted that be sung things yet unattempted in prose
or rhyme, has, in order to make good his charge
against Milton, bad recourse to forgeries, perhaps the
grossest that ever were obtruded on the world ?'' -
- It first occurred to Dr. Douglas to search for those
authors, from whom Lauder asserted that Milton had
borrowed his ideas. Many were scarce, and not to
be found ; but he succeeded in getting one, Staphor-
stius, a Dutch poet and divine, who, says Lauder,
" never dreamt the prince of English poets would
condescend to plume himself so liberally with his-
Staphorstius'-feathers;" and he quotes certain pas-
sages in proof of this assertion,-an entire quotation
of thirty-two lines, besides shorter ones. "I was," says
Dr. Douglas, "at a loss where to tum for these lines ;
for it is remarkable, that through his whole work,
Lauder omits to tell his readers where the quotations
are to be found: with great labour, however, I found _
some allusion to the subject, and also, with great sur-
prise, discovered that eight lines quoted as from Sta-
phorstius have no existence in that author; and which
eight lines are in Lauder's essay printed in Italics, as
having the strongest resemblance to those in Paradise
Lost, and it will be impossible for Lauder to clear him-
self from the charge of having corrupted the text of
Stapborstius, by interpolating the eight lines not to
be found there. A more curious circumstance still
is, that this interpolated passage is taken from a Latin
translation ofParadiseLost itself,made byone Hogmus,
or Hog, printed in the year 1690, without the vari-
ation of a single word : it must be thought tb.~t.~{~"t.~
N2
180 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
extremely bard that Milton should be run down aa a
plagiarist for having stolen from himself, yet this is
strictly the case. Hog translated the Paradise Lost
into Latin : Lauder interpolates some of Hog's lines
in Staphorstius, and then urges these very lines as a
demonstration that Milton copied him. There ie
equal testimony to prove- that Lauder interpolated
Phineas Fletcher, and oihers, in the same way; but
the most extraordinary part of the forgery is yet to be
mentioned : this interpolating critic has even forged
Milton himself, and interpolates the Paradise Lost,
however ridiculously improbable this may seem. In
1747, Lauder makes his first appearance as the Zoilus
of Milton, in the Gentleman's Magazine, where, to
prove that Milton had copied from the Adamus Exul
of Grotius, he q:uotes, professedly from the Paradise
Lost, one line and a half, beginning ·
' And lakes of living sulphur ner flow,
And ample spaces.'
" After the most careful search, I can safely pro-
nounce that the above line and a half have no existence
in the Paradise Lost."
From the difficulty of rebutting Lauder's evidence
~gainst Milton, be badacquired some meritinthe eyes of
men of learning, which procured him the countenance
of the great, and encouraged him to open a subscription
for the publication of a new edition of those authors
who, according to him, had held the torch to Milton.
Upon the publicat~on of Dr. Douglas's remarks on •
Lauder, the booksellers, who had undertaken his
work, thought proper to prefix the following notice to
each copy of it:-
"After ten months' insolent triumph, the Rev. Dr.
Douglas has favoured the world with a detection of
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 181
this scene of villany, and has so powerfully urged his
proofs, that no hope was left of invalidating them ; an
immediate application to Lauder was necessary, and a
demand, that the. hooks, from whence he had taken
the principal controverted passages, should be put
into our hands. He then with great confidence ac-
knowledged the interpolation, and seemed to wonder
at the folly of the world, for making such an extraor-
dinary rout about eighteen or twenty lines. As this
man has been guilty of•such a wicked imposition on
us and the public, and is capable of so daring an
avowal of it, we declan1 that we will have no further
intercourse with him, and we now sell his book, only
as a curiosity of fraud and interpolation, which all the
ages of literature cannot parallel.
•'JOHN PAYNE,
"JosEPH BousuET."
In a letter addressed to the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, Lauder says, "I own the charge of Dr. Dou-
glas to be just, and· I humbly profess my sorrow, but
I cannot forbear to take notice, that my interpolating
.these authors proceeded rather from my being hurried
away by violent passions, and rash imprudence, with-
eut duly weighing the case, and chiefly from a fatal
anxiety not to fall short of my proof in that arduous
undertaking ; excusing myself on the score, that
Pope's criticisms had spoilt the sale of my edition of
Dr. Anthony Johnston's elegant paraphrase of the.
Psalms in Latin verse : and I bethought me of this
only way left ofenhancing his merit by lessening t~at
of Milton, even as Pope had endeavoured to raise
Milton by lessening Johnston's; and I thought, if I
could strip Milton of his chief merit, fertility and
sublimity of thought, I. should at once retrieve John-
ston's ·honour, and convict Pope of pronouncing so
182 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
erroneous a judgment, in giving so vast a preference
to Milton above Johnston: a task in every way ardu-
ous and unpopular, had not necessity in a manner
compelled me, as the author whom I highly value,
and on whose reputation my subsistence in life in a
great measure depended, was lately discredited by
Pope, both in Nartb and South Britain, in his Duociad;
and in consequence of those remarks, the sale of my
edition ofJohnston fell considerably, and was thought
nothing of."
Lauder wrote also to Dr. Douglas in the following
curious strain:-" I resolved to attack Milton's fame,
and found some passages which gave me hopes of.
stigmatising him as a plagiarist ; the further I carried
my researches, the more eager I grew for the dis~
covery; the more my hypothesis was opposed, the
more was I heated with.rage*."
Lauder had been sanguine in his hopes that the
unreserved confession would atone for his guilt, and
that his subscription for a new edition of "Sarcotis,"·
and " Adamus Exul," would meet with the same en~.
couragement as at first ; but the anxiety of the public
to see them was at an end, and the design of reprin~
ing ihem met with little or no success. Thus, grown.
desperate by disappointment, with equal inconsistency
and impudence he renewed his attack upon the author
of Paradise Lost, and then gave the world, as a reason.
which excited him to continue his forgeries, that
Milton had ·attacked the character of Charles the
First ; by Sa.ying, 'that that king had interpolated
•" Dr. Johnson, who had been 10 far impoeed upon by Lauder,
as to furnish & preface &nd postocript to his work, now dictated a
letter for him, addressed to Dr. Douglas, acknowledging hill fraud
in tel'IIl• of auitable contrition. Thio extraordinary attempt of
Lauder's was 110 8u~den effort ; he bad brooded over it for yean,.
•nd it ia uncertllln what hi' princi(llll mQtive wa~.''-J;Joavetr,
l.ih qf Jobnaoa,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 183
Pamela's prayer from the Arcadia, in the Icon Basi-
like. He also scrupled not to abuse most unjustifiably
Dr. Douglas, as the first exposer of his own forgery.
Lauder afterwards went to Barbadoes, and died
there in great poverty in the year 1770.
Early in the eighteenth century (1704) there was
published, in London, a history of the island of For-
mosa, off the coast of China, accompanied by an ex-
traordinary narrative of the author, who went under
the name of Grorge Psalmanazar, and who, from the
idolatries of. his· own country, represented himself to
have become a convert to Christianity.
The·description of Formosa was given with such
apparent fidelity, the manners and customs were illus-
trated with so many engravings of the houses, modes
of travelling, and shipping, an<l specimens of the lan-
guage and written character so philologically explained,
that, though some few persons of superior penetration
looked upon the work as an impo~ture, the belief was
almost general of the truth of the history, which was
considered the more interesting, as the country des-
cribed in 'the volume had hitherto been so imperfectly
known. There appeared subsequently, by the same
author, "A Dialogue between a Japanese and Formo-
san," about some points of the religion of the times.
Psalmanazar was much noticed, and his ingenuity
had several ordeals to undergo, from the severe ex-
aminations and investigations which the curiosity of
his supporterR, and the suspicion of his adversaries,
prompted them to make. He had actually invented a
Formosan language IU}d grammar, into which he
translated several prayers and short sentences ; also
a vocabulary for the benefit of those who should visit
that island~ With this, hi8 nahve language, he was
.naturally suppo!ed to b!l familiar, and be mqst have
184. SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
had an extraordinary and tenacious memory, not to
have laid himself open to more suspicion, in the seve-
ral repetitions of his examinations, which were taken
down for the satisfaction of others: he at last, how•
ever, confesssed that the whole was a forgery from
beginning to end.
He was a man of very great general knowledge,
together with natural talent, and appears by his will
to have deeply regretted this imposture. His will
thus commences: " The last will and testament of me;
apoor simple and worthless creature, commonly known
by the assumed name of George Psalmanazar." After.
a devout prayer to the Supreme Being, and directing
that he may be buried in the humblest manner, he·
says, "The principal manuscript that I felt myself
bound to leave behind was a faithful narrative of my·
education, and sallit>s of my wretched youthful years,
and the various ways by which I was, in some mea-
sure unadvisedly, led into the base and shameful im-
posture of passing upon the world for a native of For-
mosa, and a convert to Christianity, and backing it
with a fictitious account of that island, and of my own
travels, conversion, &c., all or most part of it hatched
in my own brain, without regard to truth or honesty.
It is true I have long since disclaimed even publicly
all but the shame and guilt of that vile imposition; yet
as long as I knew there were still two editions of that.
scandalous romance remaining in England, besides the
several versions it had abroad, I thought it incumbent
upon me to undeceive the world, by unravelling that
whole mystery of iniquity in a posthumous work." He
concludes by once more thus branding his work-" It:
was no other than a mere forgery of my own devising,
a scandalous imposition on the public, and such as I
think myself bound to beg Ged and the world pardon
nECEPTION, AND CREDULITY: 185
for writing, and have been long since, as I am to this
day, and shall be as long as I live, heartily sorry for,
and ashamed of.'' This document bears date in 1752,
when he was in the 73rd year of his age. ·
In the posthumous memoirs, above alluded to, he
studiously concealed who he really was. It appears,
however, that he was born, about 1679, in the south
of France, either in Provence or Languedoc ; and
having been guilty of some great excesses in the uni-
versity where he was receiving his education,-though
he does not explain the nature of them,-he found it
necessary to take to flight, and wandered clandestinely
through a great part of Europe. Finding it both
troublesome and hazardous to preserve his incognito as
an European, he determined on the plan ofimposture
which ultimately led him to write his fictitious history
of the Island of Formosa. The latter part of his life
was spent in the practice ~f the most unfeigned piety.
He supported himself by his literary labours, and was
the author of a considerable portion of· the Ancient
Universal History. His death took place in 1763.
About the year 1760, much speculation was excited
in the literary world by the publication of a series of
poems purporting to have been translated, by a Mr.
Macpherson, from the original Gaelic of the famous
poet Ossian, whose compositions had been handed
down from his own times by aral tradition. The oc-
casion of Mr. Macpherson's giving them to the world
was as follows :-Mr. Home, author of" Douglas," in
company with other gentlemen, being at Moffat in the
.summer of 1759, met there Mr. Macpherson, then
tutor to Mr. Graham; and from him they heard some
specimens of Gaelic poetry, which so much pleased
them, that they begged Mr. Macpherson to publish
them in a small volume. He complied, and this spe-
•
....
.
186 ~KETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
cimen having attracted a good deal of attention, be
proposed to make a tour, ·by subscription, through the
Highlands, for the purpose of collecting more com-
plete specimens of the ancient poetry. This journey
he performed in 1760, and speedily published the
poems in a more complete form. They were received,
however, by many with suspicion ; it being thought,
from the remoteness of the period at which they were
said to have been produced, that they could not be
genuine.
In 1763, Dr. Hugh Blair wrote a dissertation on
the poems of Ossian. This be sent to his friend
David Hume, and requested to have his opinion as
to the authenticity of the poems. In reply, Hume
said, that 'he never beard the dissertation mentioned,
where some one or other did not express his doubt
with regard to the antiquity of the poems which were
the subject of it; and that he often heard them totally
rejected with disdain and indignation, as a palpable
and impudent forgery.
The absurd pride and consequence of Macpherson,
scorning, as he pretended, to satisfy any body that
doubted his veracity, tended much ·to confirm the
general scepticism: and, added Hume, "if the poems
are of genuine origin, they are in all respects the
greatest curiosities that were ever discovered in the
history of literature." .
The first regular attack on the authenticity of
Ossian's poems was made, in 1781, by Mr. Shaw,
the author of a Gaelic Dictionary and Grammar ; and
it was a vigorous one. He contended, from internal
~Widence, that the poems were forgeries ; he asserted
that many of the Highland persons who had vouched
for their genuineness had never seen a line of the
supposed originals, and that Macpherson himself bad
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 187
constantly evaded showing them to him; and he
maintained, that both the fable·and the machinery of
the principal poems were Irish ; and that if, as a blind,
any manuscripts had e:ver been shown, they must have
been in the Irish language, the Earse dialect of the
Gaelic never having been Wfitten or printed till, in
1754, Mr. Macfarlane printed a translation of Bax-
ter's "Call to the_ Unconverted." An answer was
attempted by Mr. Clarke, a member of the Scottish
Antiquarian Society ; but, though he succeeded in
some points, he failed in his principal object.
After a lapse of nearly twenty years, a more power-
ful antagonist of Ossian took the field. This was Mr.
·Malcolm Laing, author of a History of Scotland. To
that history he added an elaborate dissertation, in
which he skilfully investigated the claim of the poems
to antiquity. The principal grounds on which he de-
cided against it were, the many false and inaccurate
allusions to the history of Britain while the country
was under the dominion of the Romans ; the flagrant
difference between Highland manners as described in
the poems and by historians ; the many palpable imi-
tations from the classics and the·Scriptures ; the fact
that all the Highland traditionary poems yet known
referred to the ninth and tenth centuries, and that
there existed no Gaelic manuscript older than the fif-
teenth century; the resemblance which the strains of
the pretended Ossian bore to The Highlan.der, one of
Macpherson's acknowledged composition~; and, lastly,
certain startling expressions, used in print by Mac-
pherson, which seemed almost to render it certain that
he was not the translator, but the author, of the works
which he had given to the world under the name of
Ossian•
.j'\JWOl,UI that the truth should he elicited on ·a s~b·
}88 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE, ·
ject so interesting to them as their national poetry,
the Highland Society bad already, as far back as
1797, appointed a committee to inquire into the nature
and authenticity of Ossian's poems. Mr. Laing's
Dissertation, of which a second edition was published
in 1804, seem& to ha\"e quickened the movements of
the committee. To assist in elucidating the subj~
a series of queries was circulated throughout the High-
lands and the Scottish islands. The series consists
of six articles, of which the first is the most important.
" Have you ever heard repeated or sung any of the
poems ascribed to Ossian, translated and published
by Mr. Macpherson? By whom have you heard
them so repeated, and at what time or times ? Did
you ever commit any of them to writing, or can you
remember them so well as to &et them down ?.. The
same answer was requested as to any other ancient
poems of the same kind ; and the committee likewise
expressed a wish to obtain as much information as
possible " with regard to the traditionary belief of
the country concerning the history of Fingal, and his
followers, and that of Ossian and his poems."
It was not till 1810 that the society published the
result of the inquiry which it bad set on foot. The
answers to the queries were certainly by no means
satisfactory. The Report, which was drawn up by
Henry Mackenzie, stated that the committee had di-
rected its inquiry to two points; firstly, what poetry,
of what kind, and of what degree of excellence,
existed anciently in the Highlands of Scotland,
which was generally known by the denomination of
Ossianic; and, secondly, bow far that collection of
such ,poetry, published by Mr. James Macpherson is
genuine. On the first point the committee spoke
decidedly. It declared its _firm conviction that such
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 189
poetry did exist ; that it was common, general, and in
great abundance ; that it was of a most striking and
impressive sort, in a high degree eloquent, tender,.
and sublime." On the second point, there was a
woeful falling-off in confident assertion. " The com-
mittee," says the reporter, "is possessed of no do-
cuments to show how much of his collection Mr. Mac~
pherson obtained in the form in which he has given
it to the world. The poems, and fragments of poems,
which the committee has been able to procure, contain,
as will appear from the article in the Appendix,
No. 15, often the substance, and sometimes almost .
the literal expression (the ipsissima verba) of passages
given by Mr. Macpherson, in the poems of which
he has published the translations. But the committee
haa not been able to obtain one poem the same in
title and tenor with the poems published b!J him•
.It ia inclined to beliet1e that he was in use to auppl!J
cha8m8, and to give connection, b!J insertingpassagu
which he did notfind, and to add what he conceived
to be dignit!J aml tlslicacy to the original compo-
aititm, b!J striking out passages, b!J softening inci-
dents, b!J refining the la7'f!"tage; inahort, b!J ch4nging
wh4t he conndered as too simple or rude for a mo-
del'fl ear, and elet~ating what in his opinion was
below the standard ofgood poetr!J· To what degree,
however, he exercised these liberties, it is impossible
for the. committee to determine. The advantages he
possessed, which the committee began its inquiries too
late to enjoy, of collecting from the oral recitation of
a number of persons, now no more, a very great
number of the same poems, on the same subjects,
and then collating those different copies, or editions,
if they may be so called, rejecting what was spurious or
corrupted in one copy, and adopting, from anothe~,
190 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
something more genuine and excellent in its place·,
afforded him an opportunity of putting together what
·might fairly enough be called an original whole, of
much more beauty, and with much fewer blemishes;
than the committee believe it now possible ·for any
person or combination of persons to obtain."
This Report, published as it was by persons who
were anxious to establish the authenticity of the
poems, seems decisively to prove that Macpherson was1
in fact, the fabricator of the works attributed to Os-
sian, or, at the least, that he formed a cento from frag-
ments of ballads and tales, blended with interpolations
of his own., The controversy was, _however, continued
for some time longer, and much ink was shed by the
believers and infidels ; the presumed Gaelic originals
were also at length published ; but the believers,
nevertheless, daily lost ground, the public ceased to
take an interest in the dispute, and the question seems
now to be finally set to rest. ·
The Letters of Junius, though not so strictly to be
considered as a literary imposture, have yet excited so
much attention and speculation, both by their matter
and the impenetrable mystery in which they have
hitherto been involved, that a brief notice of that
which I consider to be the most successful attempt to
·discover the real author may not here be unacceptable.
Mr. G. Chalmers wrote a dissertation, to prove
that the author of the Letters of Junius was a Mr.
M•Aulay Boyd; and, certainly,. as far a1; circumstan-
tial evidence goes, short of direct proof, there appears
much reason for.supposing hi1:0 not far from the truth
in his conjectures.
M•Aulay Boyd was born in April, 1746, at his
father's house, Ship Street, Dublin, and in 1761 was
received as a fellow-commoner in the univer!rity of
DECEPTIO~, AND CREDULITY. 191,
that city. He came to London in 1766, to study the
law ; but his propensities carried him oftener to St.
Stephen's than to Westminster Hall, and he exhibited
a wonderful retention of memory, by reciting per-
fectly the speeches of the night to his associates in
hid·club. He became intimate with Burke, Sir Joshua
Reynolds, Garrick, and many other members of the
Literary Club.
At the time of an election in Antrim, he addressed
·twelve letters to the independent electors, under the
appellation of " The Freeholder," to gain their votes
for a constitutional candidate-Wilson ; and these
letters are known to have contributed to the raising
·of that wild clamour, which carried Wilson's election
by an enthusiastic blast of momentary madness. The
style of The Freeholder is strongly impregnated with
the essence of Junius. A great deal of evidence is
adduc~ in continuation by Chalmers, which seems to
bear him out in his conjectures; and it may be briefly
recapitulated, that, firstly, the letters of Junius appear
tohave been written by an Irishma~; l!econdly, that
they are the work of an inexperienced or juvenile
pen; and if Boyd wrote them, it must have been
when he was between his twenty-third and twenty-
fifth years; thirdly, they were published by one
"who delighted to fish in troubled waters," a propen-
sity which Boyd frequently gratified; fourthly, the
author was a constant attendant on both houses of
parliament; fifthly, compared with The Freeholder,
Boyd's acknowledged work, there is a wonderful
sameness in all the faults and excellences oi the two.
Boyd took a particular interest in Junius, and talked
as if he knew the author, but that he never would be
generally known : his wife often suspected him to be
192 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
the writer. He never disclaimed the imputation, or
claimed the honour.
The public, says Mr. Chalmers, has an interest in
exposing this mystery ; and the relatives of those
respectable persons who were said to be the writers
have also an interest, if it is known where the appli-
cation could be made, in placing the seditious pen of
Junius in the proper hands.
Almon, a bookseller, imagined that he had clearly
detected Boyd as the author. In 1769, at a meeting
of the booksellers and printers, H. S. Woodfall read
a letter from Junius, because it contained a passage
relating to the business of the meeting. Almon saw
the hand-writing of the manuscript, without dis-
closing his thoughts to the meeting; but the. next
time he saw Boyd at his shop, in Piccadilly, Almon
said, "I have seen a part of one of Junius's Letters in
manuscript, which I believe is your hand-writing."
Boyd instantly changed colour, and, after a short
pause, replied, " The similitude of hand-writing is not
a conclusive fact." Now, Boyd was by nature confi-
dent, and by habit a man of the world, a sort of cha.-
racter not apt to blush. From this time Almon used
to say that. he suspected Junius was a broken-down
gentleman without a penny in his pocket.
The anonymous publication of a series of letters
was, before this time, had recourse to for a political
purpose, About the year 172;?, when Charles, Duke
of Grafton, was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, William
Wood, ~ hardwareman and bankrupt, alleging the
great want of copper money in that kingdom, pro-
cured a patent for coining one hundred and eight
thousand pounds, to pass there as current money. This
measure was thought by some persons to be a vile job
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 193
from beginning to end, and that the chief procurers
of the patent were to be sharers in the profits. .Some
anonymous letters were, therefore, writt~n in 1724,
under the assumed name of the Drapie1·, or Draper,
warlling the people not to receive the coin which was
then sent·over.
The real author of these letters, as afterwards ap-
peared, was the celebrated Dr. Swift, Dean of St.
Pairick's, who, indignant at the scheme, boldly with-
stood the designs of the grasping projector.
Wood's project was, by virtue of a patent fraudu-
lently obtained, to coin halfpence for Ireland, at about
eleven parts in twelve under their real value; but
which, even if ever so good, no man could have been
obliged to receive in any payment whatever.
The first letter convinced all parties in Ireland that
the admission of Wood's money would prove fatal to
the nation ; some passage!! in the fourth, being thought
to reflect upon the people in power, were selected for
prosecution, and three hundred pounds offered, as a .
reward for the discovery of the author ; but no clue
was ever given ·by which such discovery could be
made. The copies were always sent to the press by
some obscure messenger, who never knew the person
from whom .he received them. The amanuensis aloBC
was trusted, to whom, two years afterwards, the author
gave an employment that brought him in forty pounds
.a-year.
The purpose of the letters was completely an-
swered, Wood was compelled to relinquish his patent,
and h.is halfpence w~re totally suppressed.
That the letters of "Junius," "The Drapier,"
and otht>r political tracts, should have been published
anonymously cannot be considered a very extraor-
dinary caution on the part of the authors ; thowt,b..
0
194 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
the public are always anxious to know the writers of
such pamphlets as have been cleverly executed. But
many authors _of works purely literary, and which,
after a perusal by the public, have been deservedly
praised, have for a time kept themselves. studi9usly
concealed, as if .unwilling to r~eive any public tribute
of admiration ; oc, perhaps, amused by the variety of
speculations afloat conrerning them.
Dean Swif\ at first, published his " Tale of a
Tub," anonymously ; it speedily excited very consi-
derable attention, some applauding others reprobating
its tendency and design. Fourteen years after this,
" Gulliver's Travels " appeared, which acquired a still
more extended popularity. Even Swift•s most inti-
mate friends were unacquainted with its origin ; ·
though many suspected who the author was. Gay
wrote to him,_saying, " About ten days ago, a book
was published here of the travels of one Gulliver,
which has been the conversation of the whole town
ever since : the whole impression sold in a week, and
nothing is more diverting than to hear the diiferent
opinions people give of it ; though all agree in liking
it extremely. It is usually said yo~ are the author;
but, I am told, the bookseller declares he knows not
from what hand it C81De."
In the summer of 1814, there appeared, anony-
mously, a novel, bearingthe title of "Waverley." h
~ written in a fascinating style, and was read with
avidity by every one. It was s~dily followed by
other historical novels, as interesting, or more so,
from the pen of "the Author of Waverley." They
succeeded each other with such prolific and astonish·
ing rapidity, and were executed in such a masterly
manner, that, at last, the curiosity of the public
became extreme, to discover to whom they were in-
DEC~l>TI()N, AND CREDULITY; 195
debted for them. Pamphlets on the subject, and
speculations in periodicals, were abundant. Various-
persons were named ; but the majority leaned to the
opinion that Sir Walter Scott was the writer. It was
not, however, till many years afterwards, that circum-
stances, arising out of the bankruptcy of his pub-
lishers, compelled him to throw aside the veil, and to
stand forth the avowed author of productions which
have spread his fameto the farthest limits ofciviJised
society, and which can never cease to retain a strong
hold upon the human mind.
From this brief notice of one extraordinary genius,
who lived long to enjoy his fame, we must go back,
nearly half a eentlll'!, to make mention of another,
who perished, unpraised and unfriended, before he
reached the age of manhood. In the annals of lite-
rature there is no example recorded ofprecocious talent
which can vie with that of Thomas Chatterton. He
was hom at Bristol, in St. Mary Redcliffe parish, on
the 20th of November, 1752, and was the posthu-
mous son of an individual who had been successively
writing master to a classical school, singing man in
Bristol Cathedral, and master of the Pyle-street Free-
school. At the age of five years, he was apparently
so stupid as to be deemed incapable of learning his
letters. It was not till his latent powers were roused,
by being shown the illuminated capitals of an old
French manuscript, that he became anxious to acquire
learning. Henceforth he needed no stimulant. Be-
fore he was eight years old, he was admitted into
Colson's school, the Christ's Hospital of Bristol,
where he read much in his intervals of leisure, and .
• began to try his poetical· skill. When be was some-
what under fifteen, he was apprenticed to Mr. Lam-
be~ an attorney. It was while be was in tbil!.l!.\.~~­
o 2
196 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
tion, and early in October, 1768, when the new bridge
at Bristol was completed, that he gave to the world
the first article of that series of literary forgeries
·which bas immortalised him. It was sent to Farley's
Bristol Journal, and was called "a description of the
.Friars first passing over the old bridge :'taken from an
ancient manuscript." He subsequently, from time to
time, produced various poems of pre-eminent beauty,
clothed in antique language. The language, however,
was not that of any one period ; nor was the style,
nor in many instances the form of composition, that
of the fifteenth century, the age to which he assigned
.them. He pretended that they were written by
Thomas Rowley, a priest, and Thomas Canynge, and
that they were copied from parchments, which his
father had found in a large box, in a room over the
chapel on the north side of Redcliffe church. While
he was engaged in composing these poems, he was
also a liberal contributor of prose and verse to the
Magazines. Having, in his moody moments, avowed
an intention of committing suicide, his master released
him from his indentures, and Chatterton repaired to
London, where he resolved to depend upon his pen
for subsistence. At the outset, his hopes were raised
to a high pitch; but they were soon blighted. In
spite of his wonderful fertility, and his persevering
exertions, he seems· to have been unable to provide for
the day that was passing over him. Priva~ions and
wounded pride drove him to despair, and, on the 25th
of August, 1770, he put an end to his existence by
poison. Editions of the pretended poems of Rowley
were published by Mr. Tyrrwhlt and Dean Milles ;
and a controversy was long and vehemently maintained·•
on the question of their antiquity. There are now
few persons who .doubt that they are the work of
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 197
Chatterton. That he was capable of producing them
is sufficiently proved by his acknowledged poems.
We come now to a much more daring forgery, per-
petrated by an individual whose talents were far
inferior to those of Chatterton. Mr. Malone, in the
preface to his edition of Shakspcare, had shown that
Sbakspeare died at the age of fifty-two in April 1616,
leaving his daughter, and her husband Dr. J. Hall,
executors. The will. demonstrates, that he died pos-
sessed of "baubles, gewgaws, and toys to mock apes,
&c." Dr. Hall died in 1635, leaving a will, and be-
queathing his library and manuscripts to J. Nash.
" Here," says Mr. Ma1one, "is a proof that the
executor of Shakspeare's will left a library and manu-
scripts behind him." In a satisfactory manner did Mr
Malone trace down, from the public records, the legal
transmission of the personal property of Shakspeare's
decendants to a recent period, from which he inferred,
that, amongst the present generation of them, frag-
ments might be found, if curiosity would prompt dili-
gence to search the repositories of concealment. The
search proved successful, and from the appearance of
the manuscripts of Shakspeare in 1790, every moment
was expectancy of more arrivals ; in fact discovery
succeeded discovery so fast, that Mr. Malone obtained
documents enough to fill a folio. A painting of Shak-
speare was also found, the very painting that enabled
Droeshout to engrave the. effigies of Shakspeare which
was prefixed to the folio edition of his dramas, and of
which Ben Jonson affirmed that
" The Graver had a. strife
With nature, to outdo.the life;''
and every thing concurred to evince the genuineness of
this ancient painting.
~·.
]98 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
A new disc~Wery of Shakspearian paper~ was an-
nounced for exhibition in Norfolk-street, in 1794, and
curiosity was again roused.
Mr. Malone, from some private reasons, seemed
indifferent about these papers in Norfolk-street; and
he was urged by his scepticism to contradict that pro-
bability which he had taught the imaginative world
to entertain in favour of the discovery of Shakspearian
fragments. Many other learned persons bei~g, how-
ever, convinced by examination of the authenticity of
these miscellaneous papers, the publication of them
was undertaken by subscription, and fo'u1' guineas
a copy were freely paid by the subscribers.
. When the book came out, and not till then, did
Mr. Malone condescend to look at it, and examine its
pretensions ; >tnd he quickly decided it to be a pal-
pable and bold forgery. This he demonstrated by a
learned and critical examination of each particular
paper; his inquiry was drawn up in the form of .a
letter, and addressed to the Right Honourable James;
Earl of Charlemont, in the year 1796.
The !!ditor ofthem,. Mr. Ireland, in his preface, had
assured the public,that all men oftaste who had viewed
them previous to publication unanimously testified in
favour of their authenticity, and declared that there
was on their side a mass of irrefragable evidenee, ex-
ternal and internal ; that it was impossible, amid such
various sources of detection, for the art of imitation to
have hazarded itself without being betrayed; and,
consequently, that these papers could be no other
than the production of Shakspeare himself.
The editor, in continuation, said, that these papers
came into his bands from his son, Samuel William
Henry Ireland, a young man nineteen :years of age,
by whom the discovery was accidentally made, at the
DECEPTION, AND "CREDULITY, 199
house ofagentleman ofconsiderable property, amongst
a heterogeneous collection of family papers.
The legal contracts between Shakspeare and others
were, it was said, first found by the junior Ireland,
and soon afterwards, the deed of gift to William Henry
Ireland, described. as the friend of Shakspeare, in con-
sequence of his having saved the dramatist's life. In
pursuing this research, he was so fortunate as to meet
with some deeds very material to the interests of the
gentleman at whose house he was staying; and ~uch
as established, beyond all doubt, his title to conside-
rable property, of which he was as ignorant as he was
of possessing these interesting manuscripts of Shak-
speare. In return for this service, the gentleman
promised him every paper l"elative to Shakspeare.
Fully satisfied with the honour and liberality .shown
to him, the finder of these treasures did not feel justi-
fied in importuning or requesting a gentleman, to
whom he was known by obligation alone, to subject
him11elf to the impertinence and licentiousness of lite-
rary curiosity and cavil, unless he should voluntarily
come forward. He had applied to the original pos-
sessor of them for his permission to print them, and
only obtained it under the strongest injunctions of
secrecy. •
"It is to be observed," says Mr. Malone, "that we
are not told where the deed was first discovered; it is
said in a mansion-house, but where situated is not
stated. Another very remarkable incident is men·
tioned : the discoverer met the possessor, to wbom he
was unknown, at a coffee-house, or some public place,
and the conversation turning on old autographs, of
which the discoverer was a colle~tor, the country gen-
tleman said to him, ' If you·are for autographs, I am
your man ;'come to my chambers, any morning, and
200 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
rummage my old deeds, and you will find enongh of
them.' Accordingly the discoverer goes, and taking
down a parcel, in a few minutes lighted on the name
of Shakspeare. The discovery of the title to a con-
siderable estate was so fortunate and beneficial a cir-
cumstance to this unknown gentleman, that we cannot
wonder at his liberality in giving up all his right t.o
these valuable literary curiosities; but one naturally
wishes to know in what county this estate lies, or
whether any suit has been instituted within the last
year or two, in consequence of such a discovery of
title-deeds so little dreamt of.''
According to Mr. Malone, the great objections.
critically speaking, to be brought against the manu-
scripts are, firstly, the orthography; this is not only
not the orthography of Elizabeth or her time, but for
the most part of no one age whatever. The spelling
of the copulative and, and the prepositionfor, ande-
forre, is unprecedented. " I have," says Mr. Malone,
" perused some thousands of deeds and manuscripts,
and never once found such a spelling of them ; the
absurd way in which almost every word is overladen
with both vowels and consonants, will strike every
reader who has any knowledge on the subject."
Quotations from manuscripts are made by Mr.
Malone, from Chaucer downwards to. the end of the
sixteenth century, showing the progressive changes in
the mode oforthography; and they certainly appear to
prove, most satisfactorily, that the papers,in which such
laboured an!! capricious deformity ofspelling is intro-
duced, are an entire forgery. For example, the word
mrMten·e, at that period, was spelt maister. There is
not a single authority for Londonne. So early as the
time of Edward the First, Robert of Gloucester
said,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 201
' And now me clepet it London, that is lighter in the mouth.'
Leycesterre for Leycester is as incorrect.
Secondly, the phraseology is equally faulty. parti-
cularly in the letter, supposed 'to be written and di-
rected by Queen Elizabeth, to William Shakspeare.
This letter, in particular, it is very easy to prove a
forgery; as, by an anachronism, it is directed to Wil-
liam Shakspeare, at the Globe by the Thames. Now
the Globe was a theatre which did not open till the
year 1594 ; yet, in the same letter, mention is made
of the expected presence of Leicester, who died in
September 1588, when this theatre did not exist."
The deeds and miscellaneous papers were exhibited
in Norfolk street, long before their publi~ation, and
they were submitted to the critical examination of any
one willing to question them ; nor, from their appear-
ance of venerable antiquity, was a doubt of their
genuine authenticity allowed to be entertained. When
the elder Mr. Ireland afterwards published his '' Vin-
dication," he showed how readily the most discerning
persons yielded their faith to this imposture. Mr.
Boaden, he says, thus wrote to G. Steevens after
having seen the manuscripts. " In some instances
credulity is no disgrace, strong_enthusiasm is always
eager to believe ; I confess that, for some time after
I bad seen them, I continued to think they might be
genuine ; they bore the .characterof the poet's writing,
the paper appeared of sufficient age, the water-marks
were earnestly displayed, and the matter diligently
applauded; I remember that I beheld the papers with
the tremor of utmost delight, touched the invaluable
relics with reverential respect, and deemed even ex-
istence dearer as it gave me so refined a satisfaction."
Similar and even stronger impressions were made
202 SltETCHES or IMI'OSTVllE,
on James Boswell, one of those li'terary characters
who, in company with Dr. Parr, signed a certificate
expressing their belief of the authenticity of the
papers. Previous to signing his name, Boswell fell
on his knees, and, in a tone of enthusiasm and ex-
ultation, thanked God that he had lived to witness
their discovery, and that he could now die in peace.
In proportion to this strong belief, therefore, was the
public indignation excited against the inventors of
that B}Onstrous,-and to the subscribers expensive--
forgery, which the critical acumen of Mr. Malone
had so clearly exposed. The blame ofthe transaction
was imputed as much to Mr. Ireland, the father, as
to William Henry, the son, who was in reality sole
contriver of this imposture. In an exculpatory pam-
phlet, he says, " In justice to the memory ofmy father,
I think it necessary to give a true account of the
publication of these manuscripts. After dinner my
father would read different accounts of Shakspeare,
and remark how wonderful it was that no vestige of
his signature remains, except that at Doctors' Com-
mons. Curiosity led me to look at ·the signature, in
Steevens' edition of his plays, and it occurred to me,
that if some old writing could be produced, and passed
off for Shakspeare's, it might occasion a little mirth,
and show how far credulity would go in search of an-
tiquities. I first tried an experiment by writing a
letter, as from the author of an old book in my poe-
session, in dedication of it to Queen Elizabeth : I
showed it to my father, who thought it genuine. This
encouraged me to proceed till the whole work was
completed, and published with the following title p8ge:
' Miscellaneous papers and legal instruments under
the hand and seal of William Shakspear~, including,
the tragedy of King Lear, and a fragment of Hamlet,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 203
folio, London, 1796.' And subsequently, ' Free
reflections on the miscellaneous papers, etc., in the
possession of S. Ireland, to which are added extracts
from the Virgin Queen, a play.'
The story of the country gentleman was told to
silence the numerous enquiries as to where they came
from. In conclusion, Mr. S. Ireland says, " I most
sincerely regret any offence I may have given the
world, or particular individuals, tmsting at the same
time, that they will deem the whole the work of a boy,
without any evil or bad intent, but hurried on,
thoughtless of any danger that awaited to ensnare
him."
The drama of Vortigem, which formed one portion
of the forgery, was brought outat Drury-lane theatre,
and was unanimously damned.
The art ofcounterfeiting old deeds and manuscripts
has often been had recourse to for the purpose of
fraud. Some curious evidence of such practices was
given in the case of " Mossam v. Dame Theodosia
Joy," which may be found at large in the State Trials,
vol. 7, P· 571. This l~~ody was proved to have forged
the title deeds of an estate to which she laid claim.
Serjeant Stringer, in the course of the trial, enquired
of Mrs. Duffet, one of the witnesses, " Pray what did
they do to the deeds to make them look like ancient
true deeds?" The witness replied, " For the making.
of the outsides look old and dirty, they used to rub
them on the windows that were very dusty, and wear
them in the pockets, to crease them, for weeks to-
gether. According as they intended to make use of
them, when they had been rubbed and made to look
dirty, and they were to pass for deeds of many years'
· standing, it was used to lay them in a balcony, or any
open place, for the rain to wet them, and the next
204 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
clear day they were exposed to the sun, or placed
before the fire, to dry them hastily, that they might
be shrivelled."
The introduction of the Inquisition into Portugal,
has been stated to have resulted from the admirable
skill in counterfeiting signatures, which was possessed
by a monk named Saavedra. About the year 1540,
this monk forged apostolic bulls, royal decrees, and
bills of exchange, with so much accuracy. that they
passed for genuine. He also succeeded so well as to
pass himself off for a knight, commander of the mili-
tary order of St. Jago, the income of which amounted
to three hundred ducats, which he received for a year
and a half. In a short time he acquired, by means of
·the royal deeds which he counterfeited, three hundred
and sixty thousand ducats, He might have remained
undetected through life, had not his successes tempted
him to undertake a still more hazardous fraud, which
led to his detection; falling in with a Jesuit travelling
to Portugal with an apostolical brief for the foundation
of a Jesuit's College, he concerted a plan for intro-
ducing the inquisition. Saavedra forged letters from
Charles V. to the King of Portugal, and a papal bull
for establishing the inquisition there. This bull ap-
pointed Saavedra legate. Followingup his deception,
he assumed the character of a Roman cardinal, and
made a visit to Portugal.- The king dispatched a dis-
tinguished nobleman to receive him. Saavedra spent
three months at Lisbon, after which he travelled
through the kingdom ; but he was at last detected by
the Inquisitor General of Spain, and was sentenced to
the galleys for ten years.
The eighteenth century was closed with a literary
fraud, concocte4 in Germany, to which circumstances
gave a temporary success. So little is known of the
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 205
interior of Africa, that any thing which seems likely
to add to our knowledge upon this subject can hardly
fail to excite attention. Public curiosity was, there-
fore, raised to· the highest pitch, when a work was
announced, with the captivating title of " Travels in
the Interior of Africa, from the Cape of Good Hope
to Morocco, from the years 178[ to 1797; by
Christian Frederick Damberger." Translations of a
work which promised to remove the veil, that had so
long covered central Mrica, were immediately under-
taken in England and in France ; and ·each translator
· laboured indefatigably, in the fear of the market being
forestalled by his rival. The delusion, however, was
quickly dispelled ; the work being discovered to be
the manufacture of a printer of Wittemberg, by name
Zachary Taurinius, who had before tried his skill in
-forging a Voyage to the East Indies, Egypt, &c. and
a Voyage and Journey to Asia, Africa, and America.
A literary imposition similar to that which was
practised in England by Chatterton, was effected in
France, in 1804. A small volume was published, at
Paris, edited by M. Vanderbourg, and professing to
be the " Voems of Margaret Eleanor Clotilda de
Vallon-Chalys, afterwards Madame de Surville, a
French poetess of the fifteenth century." They were
said to have been discovered, in 1782, among the
dusty archives of his family, by a M. de Surville, a
descendant of the fair authoress, who had a transcript
of them made. The origin11-ls were unfortunately de-
stroyed by fire, and M. de Surville lost his life during
the French revolution, but the copy of the poems was
saved, and, with much difficulty, was procured by the
editor. Madame de Surville is represented as having
displayed singularly precocious abilities ; to have been
married in 1421 ; and to have lived at least to the
206 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
age of ninety, exercising her poetical talent to the
last. Serious doubts as to the truth of this story are
entertained by the literary men of France. But,
though the authenticity of these compositions may be
disputed, there can be no -dispute respecting their
merit. There is a grace, sweetness, and spirit, in
them, which are exceedingly delightful. From the
following translation of the supposed Madam de Sur-
ville's "Verses to My First Born," which appeared
in an early number of the New Monthly Magazine,
some idea may be for!lled of her poetical talents :
My cherished infant I image of thy sire !
Sleep on the bosom which thy small lip presses ;
Sleep little one, and close those eyes of fire,
Those eyelets which the weight of sleep oppresses. .
Sweet friend ! dear little one I may alumben lend thee
Delights which I must never more enjoy I
I watch o'er thee, to nourish and defend thee,
And count these vigils sweet, for thee, my boy.
Sleep, infant, sleep I my solace and my treasure!
Sleep on my breast, the breast which gladly bore thee!
And though thy words can give this heart no pleasure,
It loves to aee thy thousand smiles come o'er thee.
·Yes, thou wilt smile, young friend, when thou awakest,
Yes, thou wilt smile, to see my joyful guise;
Thy mother's face thou never now mistakest,
And thou bast learned to look into her eyes.
What I do thy little fingers leave the breast,
The fountain which thy small lip pressed at pleasure?
Couldst thou exhaust it, pledge of passion blest,
E'enthen thou couldat not know my fond love'• measure.
My gentle son I sweet friend, whom I adore I
My infant love ! my comfort! my delight !
I g.u;e on thee, and gazing o'er and o'er,
I blame the quick return of every night.
. DECE.PTION1 AND CREDULITY. 207
His little arms atretch forth-sleep o'er him steal&-·
His eye ia closed-he sleeps-how still his breath!
But for the tints his flowery cheek reveals,
He seems to slumber in the arma of death.
Awake my child 1-1 tremble 'With affrightI-
Awaken !-Fatal thought, thou art no more!-
My child !-One moment gaze upon the light,
And e'en with thy repose my life restore.
Bleat error I atill he aleepa-I breathe again-
May gentle dreams delight his calm repose!
But when -.rill he, for whom I sigh-oh when
Will he, beside me watch thine eyes unclose ?
When shall I &ee him who hath given thee life,-
My youthful husband, noblest of his race?
Methinks I see, bleat mother, and blest 'Wife!
Thy little hiiDds thy father's neck embrace.
How -.rill he revel in thy first caress,
Disputing with thee for thy gentle kiss!
But think not to engross his tenderness,
Clotilda too shall have her share of blin.
How will he joy to see his image there ;
The aweetness of bislarge cerulean eye !
His noble forehead, and his graceful air,
Which Love himaelfmight view wit.Jt jealousy.
For me-l am not jealous of hiR love,
And gladly I divide it, sweet, with thee;
Thou shalt, like him, a faithful husband prove,
But not, like him, give this ~xiety.
I apeak to th-thon understand'at me not-
Thou couldat not understand though sleep were fted-
Poor little child I the tangles of his thought,
His i:ofant thought, are not unravelled.
We have been happy infante as thou art;
Sad reason will destroy the dream too eoon ;
Sleep in the calm repoae that lulh thy heart,
Ere long Ita very memory wUl be gone.
208 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,..
In 1823, a visit to England was made by a singular .
individual, named Hunter, a native of America, who,
though it appears certain that he professed to be what
he was not, was undoubtedly a man of considerable
abilities. During his stay in this country, he pub-
lished his own adventures, under the title of "Memoirs
of a Captivity among the Indians of North America,.
from Childhood to the Age of Nineteen ; with Anec-
dotes descriptive of their Manners and Customs."
The work contains a highly-interesting narrative ofhis
alleged wanderings with various tribes of the Red Men,
and was at first much prized as a faithful picture of
Indian life. The society of Hunter.was eagerly sought
by many eminent literary and philanthropic characters,
who were ·eager to assist him in that which he pro-
fessed to be his grand object; namely, to devote him-
self to the civilisation of the red race, in order to
avert the destruction which seems to impend over it.
After his departure from England, however, strong
evidence was brought forward, to demonstrate that his
story was, in ·great part, if not wholly, a fabrication.
That Hunter had had some intercourse with the In-
dians, is not improbable ; but the romantic tale which
he tells of his peregrinations must henceforth be
classed among works of fiction.
In the following year, 1824,,the extraordinary PO:"
polarity which Sir Walter Scott's novels had acquired
in Germany, gave occasion to an audacious fraud on
the part of some German booksellers. A novel was
got up by them, with the title of Walladmor, and was
ushered into the world, at .the Leipsic fair, as the
translation of a new production by Sir Walter. This
spurious Simon Pure subsequently made its appear-
ance in an English dress. Though the author must
undoubtedly be classed among knaves, it must in jus-
DECEPTION, AND C.REDULITY. 209
tice be owned, that he was not a fool ; there being
some parts of his work·which are by no means con·
temptible.
The last instance of literary imposture dates no
.further back than the year 1832. A M. Douville-
was the perpetrator, and the title which he gave to
it was, " A Journey in Congo and the Interior of
Equinoctial Africa." M. Douville had probably vi-
sited some of the Portuguese settlements on the coast,
but his astonishing discoveries in the interior must,
like the captivity of Hunter, be considered as deserv·
ing of equal credence with the travels of Gulliver.
CHAPTER XII.
MASTERPIECES AND DF.CEPTIO:NS IN PAINTUIIG AND I!ICULPTUU.
Early Practice of Painting and Sculpture-Deception not the pur-
pose of Painting-Deceptive Powers of ·early Paiutcrs : Zeu:r:is,
Parrhasius, Apelles, and Protogenes-Anecdote of Vandyke and
Frank Hals-Apellea and tloe shoemalcing Critic-Apellea at
Alexandria-Instances of the Skill of Apelleo and Parrha~us,
and of some modem Artista-Effects of Chance in Painting-
Origin of the. Corinthian Capital-Origin of Gothic Architecture
·-Admirable Copy of Raphael by Del Barto-Imitative Powers
of Sebastian Ricci ; Speech of La Fosse to him-logcniona Stra-
tagem of Lord Nort)lwick-Laugbable Cheat by Mabuse-Su-
peratitious Stories respecting Pictures-Presentation Picture by
Ruhens-Juan de Pereja, lhe Mulatto Slave of Velasquez-
Picture-dealing ; Tricks of Picture-dealers-Secret of the Vene-
tian Style of Colouring-Anecdote of a Picture Collector-
Originals mistaken for Copies-Imitations of Painting-The
Polygraphic Society-Mosaic- Mexican Feather Pictui'C6-
Stratagem of an Archite~:t--Michael Angelo's Cupid-Statue
of Charles I. ; of Charles II.
THE arts of painting and sculpture appear to have
been practised, with more or less skill, from the ear-
liest times, and probably made continual advanC!!S
p
210 SK:ETCHBS OP IMPOSTURE,
towards excellence from the idolatrous worship of
graven images, both " in the likeness of things above,
the earth beneath, or in -the waters under the earth;"
but they certainly reached perfection amongst the
Greeks and Romans. " Who," says Mr. Shee, in
his Elements of Art, "that contemplates the Apollo
or the Venus, the Hercules or the Laocoon, the
Gladiator or the Antinous, can point out a means of
their improvement, or entertain a hope to see them
surpassed?" or who, that has Byron's poetical de~
scription in his memory, or has had the felicity to
or see
" View"the Lord of the unerring bow,
The God of life, and poesy, and light,"
" Laocoon's torture dignifY,ing pain,"
can cease to regret t.hat the paintings of the same
era can now be appreciated only through the pages
of history?
A learned professor of the art of painting-Sir
Joshua Reynolds-has drawn a distinction between
deception, as he terms it, and the more laudable at-
tempts at excellence. "Deception," says he, "which
is so often recommended by writers oil the theory
of painting, instead of -advancing the art, iu reality
carries it back to·its infant state: the first essays in
painting were certainly nothing more than mere
imitations of individual objects, and when these
amounted to deception, the artist had accomplished
his purpose."
Historical records furnish us with some anecdotes
of the deceptive powers of the earliest painters, which
prove them to have been possessed of great delicacy
and exactness of execution. Parrhasius disputed
with Zeuxi11 the honour of being the best painter_in
tbe age in which they lived; and, to decide this
DECBPTION, AND CREDULITY. ' 2ll
paint, they agreed that each should produce a pic-
ture, of which the world should judge. Zeuxis JLc-
cordingly painted some grapes, and Parrhasius. a
curtain. The work of Zeuxis being exposed, birds
came and peckerl at it: he being proud of the judg-
ment of the birds, desired Parrhasius to draw his
curtain and show his picture; but, finding. himself
outwitted, ingenuously confessed himself overcome.
Zeuxis afterwards painted a boy earrying grapes;
and seeing the birqs come to it, he confessed that, if
the grapes were well done, the boy must be as ill
done, since the birds were no~ afraid of him. Like
many others of his profession,, he was doubtless an
eccentric character; for, it is said, the last picture he
painted was that of an old woman, which, when he
had finished, he was so pleased with, that he laughed
himself to death at her comical figure.
Apelles was one of the most distinguished of the
ancient painters, and he sought an intimacy with
Protogenes, a painter, who lived retired in the isle.
of Rhode$, whither Apelles went to see him. When
he arrived there, he found only an old woman at the
house, who, asking Apelles his name, he answered
that he would write it on the canvas; and taking
his pencil, with some colour he designed something
with great delicacy, and then retired. Protogenes
coming home shortly after, the old woman told him
what had passed. Observing the beauty of the out-
line, he said it was the work of Apelles, he believing
that no one else could do it. Then, with another
colour, be drew on the first lines a second outline,
more _correct and delicate, and went out, bidding his
servant show that to the· person if he rej;urned.
Apelles going back, was astonished to see himself
P2
21:.! SKETCHES,,J!' IM.POSTURB,
outdone; but with a third colour he nnished the
design with all the subtilty of his art. Protogeaea
returning, and seeing this last addition, gave up the
dispute, and ran in haste to find Apelles. Pliny sayst
he saw thia fragment before it was consnmed at the
burning of the emperor's palace, and that there were
s~tarce any lines to be distinguished, yet it waa more
valuable than any other painting.
An anecdote somewhat similar to this is related of
Vandyke, who had so high an opinion of the genius
of Frank Hals, that he went to Haerlem, for the sole
purpose of visiting him. He introduced himself as a
gentleman on his travels, who had hut two hours to
spare, and wished in that time to have his portraiJ;
painted. Hals commenced with all possible celerity-;
after he had proceeded some time, Vandyke desired
to look at his progress, and jokingly observedt tha.t
the work seemed so very easy, he thought he could do
the same. Then, taking up the palet.tll, he requested
Hals to sit down, and painted his portrait in a
quarter of an hour. The moment Hals saw it,
he exclaimed that no one but Vandyke could have
achieved such a wonder, and be embraced him with
transport.
Apelles had recourse to an artifice to learn the
sentiments of the public respecting his pictures. He
exposed them to the general view, and remained be-
hind the canvas, to hear the remarks of the passers
by. A shoemaker coming by one day, criticised the
sandal of a :6gnre, and it was in consequenct> altered ;
but passing on the following day, and proud to see
his criticism noticed, he censured the le~, which wu
not faulty; on which Apelles catpe from behind, and
told him his judgment went no higher than the s~-
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 213
dal, whence came the proverb, " Let not the shoe-
maker go beyond his last."
Another painter, it is said, desirous of putting
public criticism to a surer test, exposed his picture
with a brush and some paint, and a request that each
critic would mark that part ofit be thought defective;
returning in the evening, he found the ori~inal picture
obliterated, its place being quite usurped by the
various and repeated marks of disapprobation.
Apelles was once wrecked on the coast of Alex-
andria, where he had formerly been well received;
but the then reigning monarch treated him with
neglect. The courtiers, who owed Apelles a spite,
sent him a fictitious invitation to the king's table, by
one of their attendants : it was gladly accepted by
Apelles. The king, offended at his presumption,
aaked him which of his court had invit-ed him. The
painter extricated himself like a man of wit; taking
a piece of charcoal from a chaffing-dish, with three or
four strokes on the wall, he sketched the person who
bore the message to him, to the great astonishment
of Ptolemy, who from the tirat few lines knew the
face of the impostor. This adventure reconciled the
king to the painter, who was afterwards loaded with
honours•.
Another instance of off-hand portrait painting, is
that recorded of Luco Giordano, who, painting before
the queen of Spain, was asked by her what sort of
• Mr. Cruikshank, whoso works in illustration of humoroua
subjects are so well known, lately applied the powers of his pencil
to a similar purpose, when appealing to a magistrate for protection
~galnat an impoetor who uaumed his name, and procured aubecrip-
\iona and contributions to forthcoming works, from strangers newly
arrived in the metropolis ; for, when asked to describe the person of
this man for the Information of the police, :Mr. Cruikoha.nk inetsDtly
sketched his likeneM, to the amu~eut ofall '2-~\.
214 SKETCHKS OF IMPOSTURE,
woman his wife was; when he imme~iately painted her
on the spot, introducing her into the picture he was
at work upon ; this witty reply so pleased the queen,
that she gave him a pearl necklace for his wife from
her own person. ·
The most extraordinary graphic power of Apellee's
pencil was evinced by the fact related by Appian-
if, indeed, it can be belie?Jed,-that a certain physiog-
nomist and fortune-teller, by looking on his portraits,
foretold the very time of the death of those per-
sons whom those pictures represented, or at wha'
time their deaths had happened, if they were already
dead.
In common also with many other celebrated
painters, Apelles so admirably imitated animals as to
deceive the species which he represeRted; in parti-
cular, he is said to have so well painted a ho~. thu
when seen by real horses they neighed, snuffed and
kicked at it, to provoke it to fight. Parrhasius also,
succeeded so well in painting a partridge, that the
real biJ:ds flew to it.
The more modern artists have followed the example
of the ancients with equal success. Barnazano, an
excellent painter of landscapes, painted a strawberry
so exactly that peacocks snapped at it, supposing it
to h!l natural. Andrea de Mantegna deceived his
master .with a fly, painted on the brow of a lion••
Holb~in proposed to quit BaRil for a time, to raise
the value of his works, which were growing too nu-
merous there; but before be went, he intimated that
he should leave a specimen of the power of his
abilities. A portrait of one of his patrons was at his
bouse; on the forehead he painted a fly, aud sent the
picture to the owner of it : the gentleman, struck
with t}Je beauty of the piece, went eagerly to bnr,ab
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 2la
off the fly, and then found the deceit. The story
soon spread, and, as such trifling deceptions often do,
made more impression than greater excellences.
Orders were given to prevent the city being deprived
of so wonderful an artist, but in the meanwhile Hol-
bein bad. withdrawn himself privately. A Roman
cardinal, it is said, even presented a paper to a por-
trait of Pope Leo, for him to sign it. _
Chance has sometimes effected that which the skill
of the artist in vain eruleavoured to perform. A
lucky hit of this sort is attributed to Protogenes, who
had for'a long time endeavoured to represent the foam
about the mouth of a horse. Getting at last impa-
tient, he threw the sponge with which he wiped off
his colours at the horse, when be found that his long
wished-for design had been thus most happily
executed.
Many excellent designs doubtless owe their origin
to chance. Leonardo da Vinci says, " the spots
which are seen on an old wall, forming confused
masses of different subjects, may excite genius, and
help it to produce something ;" and it has often been
an amusing exercise of the ingenious to develop the
irregular and fanciful lines in veined marbles into
perfect and intelligible pictures.
The idea of the elegant Corinthian capital was first
suggested by an accidental circumstance, which is
thus recorded: A young maid of Corinth dying, her
mother or nurse collected in a basket the toys of
which she had been fond, and carried them to her
grave, where she left the basket, covered with a tile.
It happened to be set upon an acanthus, which, being
thus depressed in the middle, spread its leaves and
stalks outwards, and grew up the sides of the basket,
till, reaching the tile placed on the top, tbey were
r
l
216 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
again depressed; at wbirh time Callimachus, the
sculptor, chanced to pa~~t~ the grave, and, pleased with
the graceful appearance of the foliage, applied it to
the formation of the capital, afterwards called Corin-
thian.
The Gotbie style of architecture, especially tbt~
windowe,
" Slender abafta of ahapely atone,
By foliaged tracery combined,"
sprang, it hu been imagined, from the beauty and
eimplicity observed in the interlacing of the lighter
branches of appropriate trees. For another origin of
- _ it, we are indebted to Sir James Hall, of Dnnglup.
ln his Essay on Gothic Architecture, he has with
DECEPTION, A.ND CR.EDULil'Y. 217
great ingenuity and plausibility traced the Gothic
order through its various forms, and seemingly eccen-
tric ornaments, to an architectural imitation of wicket:-
work ; of which, as we learn from some ofthe legends,
the earliest Christian churches were constructed. lri
such an edifice, the original of the" clustered pillars is
traced to a set of round posts, begirt with slender
rods of willow, whose loose summits were brought to
meet from all quarters and bound together artificially,
so as to produce the frame-work of the roof; and the
tracery of our Gothic windows is displayed in the
meeting and interlacing of rods and hoops, affording
an inexhaustible variety of beautiful forms of ope"
work. As Sir Walter Scott has beautifully de-
scribed it-
" Thou would'st have thought some fairy's band,
'Twixt poplan straight the osier wand,
In many a freakish knot, had twined ;
Then framed & spell, when the work was done,
And changed the willow wreaths to atone."
As .the older masters often repeated their best
pieces, the circumstance of there being two or three
of the same subject; is BO argument against their
genuineness. At the same time, some copies have
deceived the most skilful judges. The following is,
perhaps, the best instance of the fidelity.and masterly
execution of a copy. Frederick II. Duke of Mantua,
going through Florence on his way to Rome, paid a
visit to the Merlici palace ; over one of the doors he
saw the portrait of Pope Leo X. ·between Cardinal de
Medici and Cardinal de Rossi ; the heads were painted
by Raphael, and the drapery by Julio Romano, and
altogether it was an admirable painting. The duke
looked earnestly at it, and became so much in love
with it, that he could n~t forbear begging it of Po{le
218 · SJtBTCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
Clement VII. when be reached Rome. His holi-
- ness very graciously gave it to him, and-ordered his
secretary, Octavian de Medicis, to put the picture in
a.case and send it to Mantua. Octavian, who was a
lover of painting, and loath to deprive Florence of
such a rarity, invented an excuse to defer sending it,
pretending that the fran;~e was not rich enough, and
that he would get another fitted up for it; this delay
gave him time to have it copied by Andrea del Sarto,
who iruitate<l even the little spots on it. The copy
was so like the original, that Octavian could hardly
distinguish one from the other ; and that he might
not be deceived, he put a private mark on the back
of it, and sent it to Mantua.
The duke received it with great satisfaction, not
doubting but that it was the work of Raphael and
Julio Romano: the latter was then in the service of
the duke, and had no suspicion of its being a copy;
but Vasari, who had seen it whilst painting, disabused
him; for going to Mantua he was well entertained by
Julio Romano, who showed all the duke's rarities,
saying, the finest was still to be seen, naming the
painting of Leo X. Vasari said it was very fine, but
not Raphael's. Julio looking attentively said,." How I
not Raphael's I do I not know my own work, do I
not see the strokes of my pencil?" Vasari replied,
u You do not observe it closely enough ; I saw Andrea
del Sarto draw that very picture, and you will see
behind a mark, to distinguish it from tbe original."
Julio finding this to be true, held up his ha~ds with
astonishment, and said, " I value it as much as if it
was Raphael's, and am even more pleased, for it is
very surprising to see so excellent a master so well
imitated."
Sebaatian Ricci excelled particularly in imita~i~
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 219
of Paul Veronese, many ofwhich he sold for originals,
and even once deceived La Fosse. When the la~ter
was convinced of the imposition, he gave this severe
but just reprimand. to Sebastian-" For the future,
take my advice, paint nothing but Paul Veroneses,
and no more Riccie." ·
At the time when the FrP.ncb army were on their
triumphant march through Italy, many Italians, who
dreaded being plundered, were anxious to dispose of
the valuables they possessed ; so that the finest pro·
ductions of art were everywhere offered for 11ums far
below their value. To such an extent did this pro-
ceed, that the Pope at last issued his edict to forbid
the exportation of all works of art, except with the
permission of a committee learned in these matters,
who had positive directions to let no works depart
which might be considered a loss to ·the collections of
the city. Lord Northwick was then at Rome, when,
not a little to his surprise, an offer was made to him
of the St. Gregory of Annibal Caracci; but it was
added, that the transaction must be a secret, as the
sending away of the picture would be prevented.
What was to be done? A happy thought was bit
upon. A poor dauber was sent for, who was ordered
to paint in body colour over it, a copy of the Arch·
angel Michael, of Guido. This .was done, and a vile
affair it was. When it was finished, a learned car-
dinal on the committee was requested to see it. He
came, and not a little did be smile at the.taste of the '
purchaser; a gentle hint was given, that it was hardly
worth the cost, but my lord was all raptures. When
it arrived in England, severs! of the first collectors
were invited to see the unpacking of it. Soon a
humble imitation of the Michael of Guido stood be-
fore them. At first they stared at th~ ~ictu.re, t.b..<~.1.\...
220 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
at each other,then at my lord. "Really,"saidhe,aftera
time, "you hardly admire the picture so much as I had
imagined persons of your judgment would have done.
Give me a sponge, for the dust, I see, has destroyed
110me of the brilliancy of the colouring." A sponge·
was brought, and iny lord began rubbing away at the
picture. Not long bad he rubbed, before to their
surprise out peeped the head of St. Gregory ; another
rub, amd the attendant angels appear~d ; again, and
the whole of the magnificent picture was visible, to
their great admiration and delight. Lord Northwick
·afterwards parted with it, and it is now one of the
finest in the splendid collection of the Marquis of
Stafford.
A laughable species of imposture was practised by
a painter named John Mabuse, who lived in the ser·
. vice of the Marquis of Veren. Being informed that
Charles V. intended to come and lodge with him,
this noble, that he might receive him the more mag-
nificently, ordered all his domestics to oe dressed
in white damask, Mabuse among the rest. Instead
of being measured by the tailor, ae were the o~her
servants, the painter desired to have the ailk, pre-
tending that he would make it up in a whimsical
form, whereas his intention was to sell the stuff to
raise money for the tavern. This he did ; and know-
ing that the emperor was to come by night, he thought
he could manage the matter well enough during the
dusk. He sewed therefore white paper together,.and
painted it damask with great flowers, and then took
his place in· the train of the marquis. Though the
emperor saw the train by torch-light, he was so
pleased that next day he would have thell) march again
before him, more attentively to view them. He took
psrticular notice of the pain~r's robe, saying he never
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 221
.
saw so fine a damask before ; the marquis sent for
Mabuse, and the cheat was discovered. The emperor
laughed heartily; but the marquis, fearing it would
he thought that he dressed his men in paper, threw
Mabuse for some time into prison.
A singular instance. of religious credulity exists,
says Mr. Cumberland, in his Lives of the Spanish
Painters, concerning a picture of the Immaculate
Conception, by Juanes, and which was in the late
college of Jesuits in Valencia. This picture is the
object of general veneration, and by the devout and
credulous is considered almost equal to the Virgin
herself; for tradition reports, that it was painted by
order of Father Martin Alberto, to whom the Blessed
Virgin condescended to appear on the eve of the
Assumption, and required of the holy father to cause
her portrait to be painted in the dress she then wore.
Alberto committed to Juanes the honourable office
of fulfilling the command which he was himself
unable to execute. After many unsuccessful trials,
Juanes at last succeeded; and by means of elaborate
acts of penance and great contrition, the work was
sanctified and the pencil-like a sword, blessed and
made invincible by the Pope-never missed its stroke.
It is said, that Juanes being one day seated on a
scaffold at work upon the upper part of the picture,
the frame gaye way, and the painter being in the act
of falling, the holy personage, whose portrait he had
fortunately finished, stepped suddenly from thecanvas,
and aeizing his band preserved him from the fall ;
this being done and Juanes safely landed on the Boor,
the gracious lady with all composure returned to her
post.
Mr. Evelyn, in his "Diary," notices a celebrated
picture in the Annunciata at Florence, by Bartolomeo,
!22 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
who spent his utmost skill on the face of the angel
Gabriel, and being troubled that he could not exceed
it in that of the Virgin, he left it till the following
morning ; when, drawing away the cloth from before
it, an admirable and ravishing face was found ready
painted ; at which miracle all the city came to wor-
ship it. It is reported that those who have the honour
of looking at it never lose their sight.
The celebrated presentation picture by Rubens,
given to Charles I. acted a great political fart at the
time, and was an ingenious artifice of the painter to
further his views as a diplomatist. The fame of
Rubens was long known to Charles, who had invited
him to his court ; his talents were of a superior class,
and had already been employed at some of the courts
ofEurope. Having received instructions from Philip
IV. of Spain how to act, Rubens arrived in England.
Although the real object of his mission was diplo-
matic, he concealed it under the character of tbe
painter, he being deRirous of sounding how matters
stood. Charles, an admirerofRubens's works, received.
him with attention and respect: the artist painted a
picture, in which all the blessings ofpeace are repre-
st>nted in glowing colours, and Minerva is exhibited
driving away Mars, with the concomitant miseries of
war. This picture he presented to the king, and
took an opportunity of alluding to the then st.ate of
Europe, and the benefits which might result from an
arrangement between England and Spain. The king
listened with attention, and expressed himself dis-
posed tf? accede to a compromise; Rubens, who had
hitherto abstained from showing the true cause of his
visit to England, . now produced his credentials as
envoy, and a treaty was shortly after concluded.
The Spanish ;painter, Velasquez, had a mulatto
DECEPTION, AND CRBDULITY. 2~
slave, Juan de Panoja, who was employed in mixing
his colours; and who, catching some of the inspira-
t)on of his master's art, became ambitious of trying'
his skill. The disqualification of his condition wa11
such, that to touch the most liberal of the arts with
the hand of a slave was danger in the extreme. The
castes in India do not stand at a greaterdistance from
each other, than degrees of men in Spain ; and Ve-
lasquez, of all men, was least likely to brook a viola-
tion so presumptuous as that which Pareja meditated.
The temptation was ever present, and the impulse of
genius in the end was irresistible : in stolen moments,
Pareja, by the force of talent, became an accom-
plished artist. Ambition now inspired him with
higher wishes, and. he meditated on .a method of
making his skill known to the momuch, Philip IV.,
who was accustomed, on visiting the studio of Velas...
quez, to order the pictures that stood with their faces
to the wall, to -be turned that he might see them.
This suggested to Pareja the hint of substituting one
of his own ; and t~e experiment happily succeeded.
The king coming, ordered the frame to be turned;
Pareja eagerly obeyed, and presented to the royal
view a piece composed by a slave and a mulatto, and
which, in point ofexcellenc.e, would have done honour
to a free artist. It was not easy to appeal to a bet-
ter judge than the king. Pareja fell on his knees,
avowing the guilt of the performance, and implored
protection. "Velasquez," said the·k'ing, "you must
not only overlook this transgrassion, but also observe
that such talents ought to emancipate the pos.sessor."
This generous decree was obeyed ; but the grateful
freedman persisted to serve his former master, and,
after the death of Velasquez, he continued his ser-
.vices to his daughter.
224 - SK.KTCH.ES OF IMPOSTURE,
Picture-dealing, as a trade, is as open to imposition
as horse-dealing, and those purchasers who are but
inditrerent judges, become every day victims to this
successful mode of imposture. ·
Nicholas Laniere, an Italian painter in the time of
Charles 1., seems to have been an adept in all the
arts of picture-craft. Sanderson speaks of him as the
first who passed otr copies for originals ; by tempering
his colours with soot, and then rolling his works up,
he made them crackle and contract an air of antiquity.
The same appearance pas been produced in more
modern times, by using a dark varnish to new pic-
tures, and baking them in a slow oven. Thus, in a
short time, they acquired the venerable appe41orance of
age, provided, that is to say, they were not over·
baked.
• The author of the " Elements of Art " alludes to a
.pretended discovery of the Venetian secret of colour-
ing, which occasioned, a few years since, no small
sensation in the world of taste. The .degree to
which enthusiasm may get the better of discretion,
was strikingly exemplified on that occasion.
This supposed secret method of colouring waa
found among the manuscripts of'a Captain Morley,
who had travelled in Italy. It was said to be the
process used by Titian, Bassano, and others of the
Venetian school. Several of our artists and con-
noisseurs were so certain that this was the fact, that
they gave the possessor of the papers a valuable con-
sideration for the secret they contained, which was•
communicated to them under an obligation not to
divulge it : the process, however, has never answered
the expectations that were previously entertained con-
cerning it.
Where vanity without judgment induces any one
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 225
to purchase copied pictures for originals at great
prices, it is often dangerous to endeavour to convince
them of their infatuation. A noted collector in the
reign ofGeorge II. consulted Richardson, the painter,
respecting a picture which he had purchased for a
Guido. "There is," saill he, "little Hugh Howard,
who says it is·a copy; the next time he says so, I will
certainly knock him down. Now pray, Mr. Richard-
son, favour me with your candid opinion I"
With regard to forming a jndgment on pictures, it
is a most curious circumstance that inexperienced
persons, ev.en with good taste, may mistake an ori-
ginal for a copy ; for it is b:r no means a very rare
occurrence that a genuine and valuable picture shall
have been disguised and disfigured by being in part
painted over again, in an inferior style, either for the
fraudulent purpose of more effectually concealing it
for a time, or from the mistaken vanity of the painter.
One well versed in the art and mystery of picture·
cleaningcan instantly detect the superiority ofthe pic-
ture, though in disguise, and can ingeniously remove
all the parts more recently painted, leaving its ori~
ginal beauty uninjured.
Sir Joshua Reynolds, in his "Journey through
Fhmders and Holland," brings serious charges against
the picture-cleaners, who, by their injudicious at-
tempts to repair the injuries of time, had very much
disfigured or spoilt some of the most valuable paint-
ings.
Between forty and fifty years since, a society
started with great pretensions, and, in one of the
reports it published, it gave the following account of
itself:-" The novelty of the Polygraphic Society
renders it necessary to inform those still ignorant,
that it is a new art for multiplying and takin~ ~\.~-
Q
226 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
tures from the original, in oil coloUJ.'ll, by a chemical
and mechanical process. This art was, after many
years' labour and experience, invented by Joseph
Booth, a portrait painter, and offered to the public
under the name of Polyplasiasmos. He communi-
cated his pr<tiect to a few gentlemen ofrespectability,
who, convinced that an invention of such merit, if
properly countenanced, wouhl be an object of national
advantage, and do honour to our age and country, by
introducing more accurate pictures than has hereto-
fore been done at so low a price, united themselves
for its support, under the title of the Polygraphic
Society. They propose a public exhibition of the
copies of the best paintings of the old and
modern masters, when the original, with the poly-
graphic pictures produced from them, will be 'pre-
sented together, to conv.ince the patron of the fine
arts how nearly their productions approach the ori-
ginal. They have resolved, to prevent their bt>com-
ing too common, to limit the number of each subject,
so that, at the utmost, there will not be more than
one of any suhject in each county. Some of the
prices demanded, as compared with the original, are
as follows :-A Claude ; a ' Seaport,' valued at one
hundred guineas, for ten guineas. Van Ostade; ' A
Gale ' and ' Calm,' a pair, for the same sum. A
Claude; 'Se&port,' which cost the society four hun-
dred guineas, (when the copies have been a little mel-
lowed by time they will possess an air of antiquity),
twenty g·uineas."
The society affirmed that, by this "Eecret process,"
the correctness of the drawing and the spirit, colour-
ing, and t>ffect, of the bt>st masters, either old or
.modern, were so closely imitated as to render those
pictures scarcely distinguishable from the originals
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 227
themtelves, even when hung in the same room. At
least eight exhibitions of the copies took place ; but
the society did not long exist, and nothing more bas
bee'n heard of the process which it employed. "Not-
withstanding its attempt to force itself into fame, and
with all its claims to ingenuity," says Mr. Buchanan,
"it proved a meteor only for a moment, to surprise
and be forgotten."
A process, no doubt somewhat analogous, has re-
cently been applied to working engravings in oil
colours. Numerous blocks are used, and the effect
produced is striking. The art is yet in its infancy,
but it set>ms capable of becoming highly useful and
ornamental.
An intermediate kind of art., between painting and
sculpture, is the manufacture of mosaics. Some
ancient pieces remain, and that which is called the
Furietti Doves, now in the Museum of the capital,
is a most beautiful specimen of the art. It repre-
st>nts four doves, pPrched on the rim of a vase, and
was found in the ruins of Adrian's villa at Tivoli.
Pliny mentions a worker in mo9aic, who rt>presented,
in a pavement, the relics and scraps of a supper, with
such admirable precision and exactness, that the floor
of the room seemed never to be cleansed, but always
to be covered with bones, parings, and similar refuse.
In this case the skill of the artist is certainly more
deserving of praise than the choice of a subject.
The true mode of working in mosaic was first dis-
seminated in Italy, in the thirteenth century, by
Andrea Taffi, a Florentine, who learned it from a
Greek artist, named Apollonius, who, with some of
his countrymen, was employed to decorate the church
of St. Mark, at Venice. His greatest work is a Dead
Christ.
228 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
The portrait of Paul V., in the Borghese palace,
was executed by Marcello Piovenzale, in mosaic, in
imitation of the antique, if not in a superior style.
The face alone consists of two million pieces, many of
which are not larger than 'a grain of sand.
In the manufacture of mosaics, at Rome, it is stated
that seventeen thousand tints of colour are employed·
in imitating the finer paintings. But in the amusing
work of the celehrated Goethe, " Winkelman, und
sein yahr hundert," it is asserted, that about fifteen
thousand varieties ofcolour are employed by_the same
workers, and that there are fifty shades of each variety
from the darkest to the palest. It would be ima-
gined that, with the command of seven hundred and
fifty thousand tints, the most beautiful and varied
pai-ntings might be perfectly imitated ; but even with
all these a want is sometimes experienced.
The Mexicans had the power of most ingeniously
imitating paintings in a mosaic of feathers; a minia-
ture of the Crucifixion, contaiRing many figures, is
thus executed, "and is preserved," says Mr. Dalla-
way, "in" the Ashmolean Museum." The labour
employed in these pieces was immense. To obtain
the materials, birds of the finest plumage were reared,
and at certain seasons the feathers were collected and
sold to the artists. When a mosaic was to be exe-
cuted, several artists combined their talents. A
design having been agreed upon, each artist charged
himself with the performance of a certain part of it.
Almost the patience of Job was necessary for such a
task. A whole day is said to have been frequently
spent in the adjustment of a single feather. Feather
after feather was rejected, till one was found which
was exactly suitable in size and hue. The feather
was taken up with delicate pincers, and was fastened
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 229
on wood or copper with a glutinaus substance, and
carefully smoothed. If the least derangement took
place, the work of it was again gone over. Nothing
less than the most perfect smoothness and correctness
would satisfy the workman. When each artist
had completed his portion, the whole of them me~
to form the complete image ; and here again the.
difficulty and expense of time and skill must have
been great. "These images," says Acosta, "are
deservedly admired.; for it is wonderful bow it was
possible, with the feathers of birds, to execute works
so fine and so equa~ that they appear the performance
of the pencil ; and, what neither the pencil nor the
colours in painting can effect, they have, when
viewed from aside, an appearance so beautiful, so
lively and animated, that they give delight to the sight.
Some Indians, wl;to are all artists, copy whatever· is
painted with a pencil so perfectly with plumage, that
they rival the best painters in Spain."
Paintings h~Lve been imitated, with more or less
success, in silk and other materials. The most sue~
cessful imitator of the works of the pencil is un~
doubtedly our countrywoman, Miss Linwood, whose
productions, in coloured wool, almost rival th~ ori.o
ginal pictures.
In the convents of Brazil, flowers are imitated by
means of feathers, in such a manner as to emulate
nature. The lightness, the gloss, and the brilliant
tints of feathers, give them a great advantage over
the coarser substances which are commonly used in
the making of artificial flowers.
A very ancient fraud, connected with architecture,
is mentioned by Sandys, in the curious and rare
narrative of his travels in the East. One of the
Ptolemies caused a tower to be built~ o{..., 'fi~'-'-~~,'\.~
height, at Pharos, having many \11.n\~nw. ...,\ \."\).~ '-~~
230 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
for the use of ships at sea during the night. .It was
reputed the seventh wonder of the world, and was
named after the island on which it stood. Sostratus
of Cnidos, the ambitious architect, was refused by
the king the satisfaction of setting his name to the
work. This, however, the artist effected, by cutting
.an inscription on a block of marble to the following
effect : " Sostratus of Cnidos, the son of Dexiphanes,
to the gods protectors, fot· the safeguard of Sailors...
This he encrusted over with a fictitious stone, on
which was engraved a pompous inscription, in honour
of the king, that the external crust might decay in a
few years, leaving the inscription in honour of the
artist fair and indelible.
Michael Angelo, to try how far he could impose
upon the curious in sculpture, carved a statue of
Cupid. Having broken off the arm, he buried the
rest of the figure under a certain ruin, where they
wet·e wont to dig in search of marbles. It was soon
after discovered, and passed among the learned anti-
quaries for an invaluable and. undoubted piece of
ancient sculpture, till Michael Angelo produced to
them the arm previously broken off, whieh fitted so
exactly as to convince them of their too easy eredo-
lity, and the vanity of their speculations.
In the year 1678 was erected the animated statue
of Charles I., at Charing-cross. .It was cast in bras~~,
in1633, by Le Sc:eur, it is believed, by order of that
munificent encourager of the ,arts, Thomas Howard,
Earl of Arundel. The Parliament, in Cromwell's
time, ordereil it to be sold, and broken to pieces ; but
J. River, the brazier who purchased it, having more
taste than his employers, or seeing with the pro-
phetic eye ofgood sense that the powers which were
would not remain rulers very loag, dug a hole in his
!fSrden i11 Holborn, and buried it u.umutilated, To
DECEPTION, AND CREDVLITY. 281
prove his obedience, he produced to his masters seve-
ral pieces of brass, which he told them were parts of
tbe statue ; and, in the true spirit of trade, he cast a
number of handles for knives and forks, offering them
for sale as composed of the brass which had formed
the statue. This pleased all parties ; they were
eagerly sought for, and purchased by the loyalists
from affection to their murdered monarch, and by the
other party as trophies of the triumph ofliberty over
tyranny. When the second Charles was restored,
the statue was brought forth from its place of con-
cealment.
There was also a statue erected to Charles II. by
Sir Robert Viner, in 1675, as ·is recorded by Stowe
in his Survey of London, in a place called the Stocks-
market, now the site of the Mansion House, which
underwent a metamorphosis. This equestrian statue
was originally made for John Sobieski, king of Poland;
hut, by some accident, had been left on the workman's
hands. To save time and expense, the Polander was
converted into a Briton, and, to complete the compli-
ment to Charles, a Turk, which was underneath the
horse, was converted into Oliver Cromwell. Unfor-
tunately, the turban on the Turk's head w~~:s over-
looked, and was an undeniable proof of· the truth of
the story•. When the present Mansion House was.
about to he built,..Robert Viner, Esq., applied to the
Court of Common Council, to have this statue erected
by his ancestor delivered to him, and the court com-
plied with his request.
• It need not excite much surpriae, to find a Turk's head on
Oliver Cromwell's shoulders; for it was not longago, that an itine-
rant showman had drswn up his caravan at the comer of High-street,
Mary-le-bone, and was reaping a rare hnrveat by exhibiting the ver;r
idontical skull of Oliver Cromwell when a bog I
232 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
CHAPTER XIII.
lJIPOITUB.KS IN ENGIU.VING.
Fashion of decrying modem Artists-M. Picart &88erta the Merit
of modem Engravere-Means employed by him to prove the
Truth of his Asacrtiohs-" The innocent Impostors "-Golt-
zius imitates perfectly the· Engravings of Albert Durer-Marc
Antonio Raimondi is equally suc~essful-Excellent Jmitatioq
of Rembrandt'• Portrait of Burgomaster Six-Modem Tricka
played with respect to Engraved Portraito-Sir Joshua Reynolda
metamorphosed into" The Monster."
ABOUT a century since, it was the fashion, among
the would-be pretenders in matters of taste, to decry
the work~, and depreciate the talents, of the engravers
of that time, in comparison with the earlier artists.
This induced M. Picart, an ingenious engraver, to _
.undertake the task of exposing the fallacious rea-
soning of these cognoscenti, who asserted that they
could easily distinguish the works of the earlier
painters, which had been engraved by themselves ;
and, secondly, that, as an engraver could never attain
the picturesque style, they could easily distinguish
whether an engraving was the work of a painter, or
of merely .an engraver; and, thirdly, that the modem
engravers could not copy the paintings of the older
masters so well as the contemporary engraver.
In direct opposition to these frivolous conceits, M.
Picart asserted that the plates engraved by Signor
Contarini, after Guido, were much preferable to those ,
incontestibly engraved by Guido himself; and also,
that the works of Gerard Audran, an engraver by
profession, were toucht>d with as much spirit as could
possibly have been given by a painter.
To put it to the test of experiment, however, Pi-
DEC.KPTION AND CBEDULITY1 233
cart chose some designs of the earlier painters, which
had not been engraved, worked at them in secret,
stamped some of-them on old paper, and dispersed
them quietly; and no one ventured to doubt but that
they had been both engraved and printed in Italy.
Havingbythis artifice sufficientlydisproved the validity
of those assertions which tended to depreciate the
modern engravers, M. Picart collected in one volume
all the plates be had so circulated, and they were
afterwards published under the name of "Picart's.
innocent Impostors." ·
Goltzius, a celebrated engraver of an earlier period~
had recourse to a somewhat similar artifice, to con-
vince the world of the malevolent detraction of cer-
tain rival artists, who, to humble Goltzius, were
accustomed to say that his works were not to be
compared with those of Albert Durer, or Lucas of
Leyden. He, therefore, engraved the ·Circumcision,
after the manner of Albert Durer, stamped below
with his own name and mark ; some impressions were
taken off on old and discoloured paper, and his name
was burnt out, or otherwise effaced. This plate went
thus in masquerade to Rome, Venice, and Amsterdam,
and was received by all the amateurs and curious
with astonishment and pleasure, and was purchased at
a very high price by those who esteemed themselves
too happy to have found an opportunity of possessing
themselves of an engraving by Albert Durer. Soon
after, the same plate appeared entire, and freshly
stamped with the name and mark of Goltzius ; the
connoisseurs were of coune greatly confused and,
extremely angry, and the malevolent jealousy of his
rivals was exposed to the world. ,
Marc Antonio Raimondi raised himself into notice
234 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
in the following manner: many engravings by'Albert
Durer wNe brought to Venice for sale, and Raimondi
was so much struck by the style and execution, that
he purchased them, and set to work to copy them,
eounterfeiting Albert Durer's mark, A. D. These
copies appeared so similar, that they were believed to
he the genuine works of Albert, and, as such, were
exposed to sale, and became speedily purchased. This
made Albert so indignant, tbat he quitted Flanders,
and came to Venice, to make a complaint against
Raimondi to the Government; and he was forbidden
in future to make use of Albert's name or mark.
The engraving of the Burgomaster Six, the. patron
of Rembrandt, was so much valued, and so scarce,
that Beringhen could not obtain it for any money ;
and ·he, therefore, procured a copy of it to be made
with a pen, and afterwards washed wit.h Indian ink,
which was in the French king's cabinet at the time
M. Gersaint wrote Rembrandt's life, and was so excel-
lent an imitation, that it deceived several good judges.
T~e tricks of transmutation which are often played
with copper-plate engravings are well known. At the
time when the person so justly execrated and branded
with the name·of " The Monster,'' made such a noise,
the dealer in one of the catchpenny accounts of his
life and adventures was very desirous of giving to the
public some representation of him. Not being able
suddenly to procure one, it was necessary for him .to
find a substitute. An old plate, which had been en-
graved for a mngazinl', and intended to pass for a
likeness of Sir Joshua Reynolds, was luckily obtained,
and was made to answer the purpose. As the print·
bore no resemblance whatever to Sir Joshua, and bad,
indeed, a most unprepossessing appearance, the original
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 2Sfi
iflseription was erased, " The Monster " substituted,
and it did very well. .In the ephemeral publications
which daily issue from the press similar metamor~
\)hoses are by no means uncommon.
CaAPTER XIV.
FOILGJUl INSCRIPTIONS .t.ND SPUIUOUS·JIBDALS.
Ancient Memorials of Geographical Discoveries-Mistakes IU'isinlf
from them-Frauds to which they gave occaaion-lmposture of
Evemerus-Anniua of Viterbo \\Tongfully charged \\ith forging
lnscriptiona-Spurious Works given to. the World by Lim-
Forged Inscriptions put on Statues by ignorant modei'D Sculpton
-Spurious Medals-Instances of them in the Cabinet of Dr.
Hunter-Coins adulterated by Grecian Cities-Evelyn's Direc-
tions for ascertaining the Genuineness of Medals-.Spurioue Gold
Medals-T1ioks of the Manufacturers of Peeudo-Antique
MedalB--Collecton addicted to pilfering Rarities-Medals swal-
lowed by Vaillant-Mistakes IU'iling from Ignorance of tho
Chinese Characters.
IT appears to have been the practice of the early
Greek navigators to leave memorials on shores dis.
covered for the first time, and to take possession of
them by a dedication to one of their gods or heroes ;
as modern navigators in their discoveries have usually
named prominent headlands, islands, or secure har..
hours, from same statesman or hero of the day.
These ancient inscriptions being found among bar-
. barous nations by succeeding navigators, when the
original discoverers were forgotten, it might be con-
cluded that those heroes, to whom the shores had-
been merely dedicated in the first instance, had actuall:J
been.._there.
The probability of such circumstances led the way
in after times to a species of fraud, for conferrinq;. ~
236 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
spurious antiquity on certain places and things by'
persons, producing, as authentic and ancient, histories
and monuments of their own manufacture.
Evemerus, a Messenian, or according to some
writers, a Sicilian, a cotemporary of Cassander, king
of Macedon, seems to have been the first who at·
tempted this kind of fraud ; for he pretended to have
found on a golden column, in an ancient temple in
the island of Panchrea, a genealogical account of a
family that had once reigned there, in which were
comprised the principal deities then worshipped by
the Greeks. Not only were their lives recorded, but
also their deaths ; and thus a deadly blow was aimed
at their divinity. This fable was translated into Latin
by Ennius.
Annius of Viterbo, who was born at Viterbo, in
1432, and whose real name was John Nanni, has been
.charged with framing inscriptions from his own imagi-
nation, and burying them in certain places, that, when
they had acquired an appearance of antiquity, he
might pretend to find, and might vend them. He is
also said to have manufactured medals of an early
date. Both these charges are, however, erroneous.
It is nevertheless certain that, accompanied by his own
oommentaries, he presented to the world, as genuine,
the pretended works of several exceedingly ancient
authors; for this he has incurred much odium, but it·
is believed, by many learned men, that, instead of
being a forger, he was himself deceived by forged
manuscripts. This fraud gave rise to a violent con-
troversy, in which many of the most eminent literary
men were engaged.
The great uncertainty relative to the genuinenen
of inscriptions on ancient statues originated in the
jgnorance or fraud of those who restored them.
DECBPTION, AND CREDULITY. 237
Even Phiedrus, in the application of a fable at the
beginning of his fifth book, alludes to this practice in
his time by mercenary artists. " The name ofApollo-
dorus, on the plinth of the Venus de Medicis," says
Mr. Dallaway," has been detected as a modern forgery.
The statues which have been dug up in a mutilated
state, and placed in the hands of venal or ignorant
artists, have always had the name of some eminent
character given to them. Doubts of genuineness are
at least allowable, and often justified, of those statues
the hands of which have been evidently engrafted."
The fabrication of spurious coins for the market
was neither a modern contrivance nor of unfrequent
occurrence. The collection of medals belonging to
Dr. Hunter affords some examples. One of a
leaden coin, cased in silver, as remote as the time of
Seleucus, king of Syria, may be seen in that cabinet;
and also a similar coin of the city of Naples. In the
Roman series, Neumann makes mention of a re-
markable instance from Schulzius, of a leaden coin of
Nero, which bad been anciently circulated for brass,"·
in which metal it was enclosed. ln Dr. Hunter's
cabinet are two examples of leaden coins covered with
gold; one of the Emperor 'Trajan, the other of his
successor.
Demosthenes relates, on the authority of Solon,
that several cities in Greece adulterated their coins ;
and Dion Cassius states, that the Emperor Caracalla,
instead of gold and silver, issued brass and leaden
coins, which were merely washed or cased with silver
or gold, to conceal the fraud.
Evelyn, in his " Numismata," exposes many of the
tricks of those who, at the period at which he wrote,
supplied the market with spurious coins and medals.
"The most likely means," says he, "for procuring ge.
288 SKETCHES OJI' IMPOSTURE,
nuine coins or medals, are from country people, who
plough and dig about old walls, mounds, &c., where
castrametations have formerly been. The composi-
tion or grouping pf the figures should also be well
considered, that it be with judgment; for the ancients
seldom crowded many figures together. A perfect
medal has its profile and out-strokes sharp, and by no
means rugged; the figures clean and well polished,
and an almost inimitable spirit of antiquity and ex-
cellence, in the most ancient. Yet after much re-
search, travel and diligence, cost and caution, one is
perpetually in danger of being deceived, and imposed
upon, by cheaters and mercenary fourbes ; and even
the country people, in Italy and Holland, .often de-
ceive the less wary medallist. Where a series of
ancient medals is known to be imperfect, suspicion
should always attach to him who pretends to supply
the chasm, and complete the series.
'' All medals of gold,· Grel'k or Roman, that are
not of the best alloy, are to be considered impos-
tures.
" The manufacturers of pseudo-antiques, will raise
and carve the effigies·of one emperor out of another
antique head of a less costly and rare description ; for
instancll, an Otho out of a Nero ; and also the re-
verses : nay, they have the add1"ess to slit and divide
two several medals,and,with a certain tenacious cement,
join the reverse of one to the head of the other, and
so repair and trim the edges that it is impossible to
discover the ingenious fraud. A partial deceit is often
practised on the unwary, by taking off a part of a
relievo, and applying it to another medal ; by the
same artifice ind dexterity, the title of a genuine
medal may be entirely altered, where there are but
few letters, by pinching up a letter in one part, or
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 289
removing superfluous matter in another, so that in
pt"OCess of time the metamorphosis is complete.''
. Mr. Obadiah Walker accuses the Jews of being
most industrious in putting off spurious metals. Some
persons purposely bury medals near the remains of
some Roman works, and then .pretend to have found
,them by chance ; as is also reported of a certain
statuary, who carved the pseudo Hercules, and sold
it at a great price, before the justly-admired original
statue was discovered.
Rival collectors have been known to prey on each
other's rarities, by clandestinely swallowing the most
precious gem in a collection ; at least an anecdote to
this effect is related on the continent, of Baron Storch,
a celebrated gem collector.
The Abbe Barthelemi, tatight by experience, was
very careful how he exposed to visitors the rarities in
the French cabinet of medals, of which he was the
keeper ; for in his account of the duties of his office
he says, "Such a depositary as this cabinet ofmedals
cannot safely be made public ; several persons might
put their hands on them at one time, and it would be
easy to carry them off, or substitute such as are
spurious or common. I had no other resource, after
I bad g!lt rid of the groups, but to examine the shelves,
at wbich they had been looking."
Vaillant, the celebrated numismatist, when pursued
at sea by Algerine pirates, is said to have swallowed a
whole series of Syrian kings. When he landed at Mar-
seilles, be hastened to his friend, physician, and brother
antiquary, Dufour, groaning horribly, with the trea-
sures in his belly. Dufour was only anxious to know,
·whether the medals were of the higher empire; Vail-
lant showed him two or three, of wl1ich nature had
240 SK~TCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
relieved him : a bargain was immediately struck, and
on that very day an Otho was safely delivered.
The almost universal ignorance in Europe of the
Chinese alphabet, and written character, has been the
cause of some curious mistakes in deciding on the
merits of certain coins. So little was a professor of
Chinese, at Rome, versed in the language he professed
to know, that he is said, by Mr. Pauw, to have mis-
taken some characters found on a bust of Isis for
Chinese ; which bust and characters were afterwards
proved to be the work of a modern artist of Turin,
made after his own fancy.
In Great Britain, we have, till recently, known still
less of the Chinese language and literature than on
the continent. " It is not many years since," says
Mr. Barrow, "that one of the small copper coins of
China, stamped in the reign and with the name of the
late Tchien-lung, was picked up in a bog in Ireland,
and, being considered as a great curiosity, was carried
to an indefatigable antiquary, whose researches have
been of considet'llble use in investigating the ancient
history and language of that island. .Not knowing
the Chinese character, nor their coin, it was natural
enough for him to compare them with some language
with which he was acquainted; and the conclusion he
drew was, that the four characters on the face were
ancient Syriac, and that the reverse appeared to be
astronomical or talismanic characters, of which he
could give no explanation. The Mantchoo Tartar
characters of another coin he supposed to signify p,
u, ,., which he construed into sors, or lot ; and it was
concluded, that these coins must either have been
imported into Ireland by the Pbamicians, or manu-
factured· in the country ; in which case the Irish must
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 241
have bad an oriental alphabet. In either case, these
medals," it was sagely observed, "contribute more to
authenticate the ancient history of Ireland than all
the volumes that have been written on the subject."
CHAPTER XV.
8EPULCBR.A.L AND PERPI:TUA£ LAliiPB.
Belief in ever-burning sepulchral Lamps-Such Lamps supposed
to have originated with the Egyptians-Reason of their Origin-
Various Shapes ofEgyptiau Lamps-Description of one-Lamp .
said to have been found in the Tomb of Pall...-Its une:r-
tinguishahle Nature-Lnmp and embalmed Body mentioned hy
Pancirollus-Ohservation of Ferrarimi--Perpetual Lamps iu
the Temple of Jupiter Ammon and at Edessa-Kircher on the
Formation of perpetual Lamps-Trithemius's Recipes to make
them-Why such Lampe were ~opposed to he possible in Egypt
-Sir Thomas Browne's Conjectures reapocting them-Modem
Philosophers anxious to form perpetual·Lamps-Suggestions of
D~. Plott respecting the Method of making them.
MANY learnedand ingenious authors,who have writ-
ten concerning sepulchral lamps, have belie'Ved, and
strenuously a~serted, that they have burned for seve-
ral hundred years ; and would have continue"- burning,
perhaps for ever, bad they not been broken by the
accidental digging into the tombs where they were, by
husbandmen and others. There are not many, who
affirm that they were eye-witnesses of the fact, but
theygive abundanceofinstances on the report ofothers.
The origin of these lamps seems to have been with
the Egyptians, who, through a firm belief of the me-
tempsychosis, endeavoured to procure a perpetuity to
the body itself, by balsams or embalming, and security
to it afterwards, by lodging it in pyramids or cata-
combs: so also, they endeavoured to animate the
R
242 IXB'CCH.EI 01' IMPOSTURE,
defunct by perpetual fire, the essence of which
answered to the nature of the soul in their opinion ;
for with them fire was the symbol of an incorruptiLle,
immortal, and divine nature.
They signified life by a lamp, and the bodies being
deposited in subterranean caves, they provided lamps
to burn perpetually, to the end that their souls
might not lie miserably imprisoned in darkness, or
thereby any hurt befal them; but, on the contrary,
enjoy •eternal light: or, that when the soul should
wander-which it appears to have had the option of
doing-it might not mistake its residence, but, guided
by its lamp, safely return to its old quarters.
. Kircher, in his " History of Egyptian Antiquities,"
relates that many lamps were found in the shape of
dogs, men, bulls, hawks, &c., evidently in allusion to
the ancient Egyptian worship. One of them he
thought very prettily emblematic of life, death, and
the resurrection : the lamp itself signified life; when
extinguished, death ; and the foramen in the middle,
wherein they poured the oil, was covered with a helio-
trope inverted,-" aflower," says he, "thatis so called
from its ever inclining towards tile course of the sun ;
in the morning turning towards the east, at noon is
erect, towards evening faces the west, and at night
inclines to the earth, inquiring as it were for the sun
buried under ground ; and waiting for its resur-
rection the next morning : hence, seeming to intimate
the night of death which bodies suffer under ground,
and withal to show, according to the opinion of the
ancients, that the souls of the deceased tarry with
their bodies in the grave*."
• ~ux-~, in Greek, &ignifiea both the human soul and a butter-
By; eo forcibly were the ancient& etruck with the analogy between
the wo11dorful transform.ation of the insect, and the auninl uul
D~KPTION, AND CREDULITY. ~43
One ofthe moat remarkable of the sepulchral lamps
has been thus described as found in the tomb of Pallas.
In the year 1501, a countryman, ·digging deep into
the earth, near Rome, discovered a tomb of stone,
wherein lay ·a body, so tall that, being erected, it
overtopped the walls of that city, and was as entire
as if newly buried, having a very large wound on the
breast, and a lamp burning at the bead, which could
neither be extingaisbed by wind nor water; so that they
were forced to perforate the bottom of the lamp, and
by that means put out the ftame. This was said to
be the body of Pallas, slain by Turnus; the following
verses.being inscribed on the outside of the sepulchre:
" Filius Evaadrl Pallu, quem laaeea Turni
Militia occidit; more suo jaeet hie."
This extraordinary lamp is said to have burned two
thousand five hundred and eleven years ; and perhaps
would have continued to burn to the end of the world,
bad it not been broken, and· the liquid spilt l '
It need hardly be remarked, at the present 'day of
intellectual advancement, that this story of the size of
Pallas, and of the lamp whose contumacious flame,
well befitting such a giant, defied both the light of
liberty of the soul after ill eepan.tion from the bocly. The re-
eemblance'betweenour linorsoul, this" auilllala, ngola, blandula,"
and that mysterious imect, ap~ to tloem so strong that-it ia one
of the most common and favourite emblems e:~<hibited on their
medals. The idea of the reaurreetion both of soul and bocly hu
always been very general, whether we may eonlider It the tn.-
ditionary remains of the Scripture or the ft'UOuinga of natwal
religion. Some of the people of America have preserved notiona,
which lead insensibly to the immortality of the soul, and even the·
rcaurrection of the body. The Peruvian• observing that the Spa-
niards dng up the bodies of the lncaa, to plunder them of the riehea
llnried witll them, inatantly besought them not to dilpene their
bones, for fear It ah-lol preTent their reaurnction.
a2
244 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
day and. blasts of wind, exceeds all belief, how_
ever
gravely related. Yet the time was, when, instead of
exciting contemptuous laughter, it was implicitly cre-
dited.
Pancirollus, with somewhat less of exaggeration,
informs us, that in one. of the monuments adoming
the Appian Way, in the time of Paul III., there was
found the body {)fa young lady, ·swimming in a kind
of bath of precious oil or liquor, fresh and entire as if
she had been living; neither her face discoloured, nor
her hair disordered: at the feet burned a lamp, which
suddenly expired at the opening of the vault, having
flamed, as was computed, for fifteen hundred years ;
an inscription on the outside testifying that the fair
inhabitant of the tomb was Tullia, the daughter of
Cicero.
Ferrarius, in his time, very justly observed, that
" such foolish and absurd stories, committed to print
and posterity, are fit only for the hands of boys, or
cucumber-headed men."
The existence of similar lamps from the same ma-
nufactory, has been as credulously related ·by other
historians, addicted to the marvellous. The lamp in
the Temple of .Jupiter Ammon was reported by the
priests to have burned continually, yet it consumed
less oil each succeeding year; though burning in the
open air, neither wind nor water could extinguish it.
A similar lamp also burned in honour of Venus.
Cedrenus describes a lamp at Edessa, hid at the top
of a certain gate, which burned five hundred years.
· "The manufacture of these lamps," says Kircher,
"wa8 ordered divers ways; firstly, miraculously, 81!
that one at Antioch, which burned fifteen hundred
years, in an open and public place, preserved by that
divine power who hath made ao infinite a number of
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 245
stars to bum with perpetual lighf; secondly, by the
wiles of the devil, as St. Austin tells us, deceiving
those 'll'ho, out of avarice or curiosity, consult oracles,
or worship false gods, the devil repre9enting a flash
or flame of light to thein at their first entering ·into
subterranean caves. Others assign natural causes,
viz., a kind of ignWJfatuWJ, or pellucid matter shining
in the dark ; such glimmering coruscations are fre~
quently seen in churchyards, and marshy grounds,
especially at the breaking up of old tombs; miners
also observe, that, at the first opening of a new vein
of ore, such flames break forth." ·
Trithemius obliges his readers with two long re-
cipes for the artificial manufacture of these lalnps,
yet seems to doubt their efficacy. ·
'The possibilit!f of sucl1 eternal lamps being manu-
factured in Egypt has been attributed to the existence
of the bituminous wells or fountains, from which the .
learned in those days laid secret canals or pipes to the
subterranean caves, where, in a convenient place, they
set up a lamp with a wick of asbestos ; thus the supply
of oil or combustible matter was perpetual, the wick of
asbestos inconsumable, and, of necessity, the light also
endured perpetually.
Sir Thomas Browne, who exposed, in his " Pseu-
doxia Endemica," so many vulgar errors, thought he
had arrived at the solution of the problem, "why
some lamps, included in close vessels, have burned
many hundred years, as that discovered in the sepul-
chre of Tullia, sister to Cicero,-as he has it,-or
that of Olybius, many years after, near Padua?
namely, because whatever their matter was composed
of, either a preparation of gold or naphtha, their du-·
ration .proceeded from the purity of the oil, whicli
yielded no fuliginous exhalations to suffocate the fire."
246 IIK:ETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
But as the learned author has neglected to describe
the nature of the oil, we are likely to descend into our
graves, and remain in posthumous darkness.
It seems, indeed, to have been thought a great
desideratum in the arts to invent a perpetual lamp,
or to discover, if possible, in what the ancient sepul-
chral lamps consisted ; for the accounts of such ap-
pear to have been generally believed authentic up to
the end of tbe seventeenth century ; and philosophers
were anxious to find out methods of preparing per-
petually-burning lamps for the tombs; though for what
earthly or unearthly reason it would be difficult to
guess, unless as a complimentary and perpetual illu-
mination to the manes of the departed, or from some
foolish desire to strike wonder, in after times, in some
casual beholder, unwittingly violating the tomb.
The philosophic Dr. Plott, in the year 1684, read.
before the society of Oxford, a discourse ooncerning
the sepulchral laiQps of the ancients, showing the
possibility of their being made divers ways ; :and he
received the commands of the society to make experi-
ments, with wicks of asbestos, gold wire, &c., but he
placed moat dependence on the first. The perpetual ·
oil seemed a less difficulty, and, in his report, " he
trusted the saciety would not judge him flU' from
effecting the matter."
For home consumption he proposed the use of a
ilaphtha, or liquid bitumen, found in and near Pitch-
ford, in Shropshire, which was to be conveyed with
care to any lamp fitted with the asbestos wick, and
·into which it should perpetually distil : " thus have
we," says be, " an oil as everlasting as our wick, nor
need we fear extinction if enclosed in a tomb or vault,
in never so damp or moist a place."
Dr. Plott was unwilling to disbelieve the accounts
DECEl'TJON, ~ND CREDtlLITY. ,-f-7
of those lamps which were said to have burned one
thousand or fifteen hundred years ; and, far from
thinking the exclusion of the air a disadvantage, he
only considered it an advantage, that such would bum
as well in the open air, for that they best nourished
their ftame where there was most want of it,
In corroboration ofthe truth of such tales, he alluded
to the air" extricated from the fissures in mines, now
called fire-damp, and the occasion of so many disastrous
explosions in them. This air therefore, added he, is the
fittest for sepulchral lamps. Ye~ the greate11t difficulty
atill remained; how he could apply the air, or convey
it from its original situation. This being apparently
impracticable, the only remaining resource was, the
production ofa luminousappearance, and he concluded
by saying, "now, let an exhausted reoipient, with the
inclu~d phosphoru&, be placed in a tomb or vault,
which is commonly dark, and, if ever found, and the
outer glass broken, as usually such things are, by
ignorant men employed in .digging, possibly there will
appear, upon immission of the air, as good a perpetual
lamp as some said to have been found in the sepul·
ehrea of the ancients.': This is a conclusion eertalnlr
as satisfactory as the object of the doctor's inqulriet
was uaeful ; in the words of Rasselas, " a coDClusion
in which nothing is concluded.H
248 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
CHAPTER XVI.
PJ.HTO!IIIl!IIC DI!:LUIIONI,
The Art of Mimicry in ancient and modern Timet-Superiority of
the Ancients in that Art-Advice given by Periander-Fable or
Proteus-Education required by a Professor of the Pantomimic
·Art--Herodotus-Personation oftheinoane Ajax-Timoen.~
Archimimes employed at Funerala-Demetriua the Cynic
eonverted-Striking Effect of Pantomime on two Barbarian
Princes-Pleasure felt by the Roman People on lhe Recal of
Bathyllus-Contest of Bathyllua and Hylao-Anecdote of .John
Kemble-Pantomime.in Italy-Acting ofPortraits and historical
Pictures in Italy-The Harlot'a Progreas repreaented u a Pan-
tomime-War Dances of the ·American Indians.
THOUGH the art of mimicry is, in its confined· and
modem sense, that of mere imitation of manners, and
that not often of the most laudable species, yet, in
former times, by the excellence of its action, did it
impose on the imaginations of the spectators, and per-
suade them into a belief of the reality of what was ·
represented, even as jt were against conviction. A
slight notice of such an art may therefore not be out
.of place, even in a record of.the more prominent
delusions of the human mind.
The endeavour ofone or more individuals to express,
or relate, in conjunction, any story by mere action,
was carried to much greater perfection among the
ancients than now appears to •be possible; though, in
a less degree, the modem ballet endeavours to relate
some story or episode, by the joint means of music
and action.
Gestures, says Lord Bacon, are transitory hiero-
glyphics. They became a species of rhetoric, and
much information and meaning were often couched
under actions apparently insignificant. Periander,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 249
for instance, being consulted how to preserve a tyranny
newly usurped, bade the messengers attend, and repeat
to those who sent them what they saw him do; where-
upon he went into his garden, and topped the highest
flowers, signifying that it consisted in cutting off and
keeping low the nobility and grandees.
. According to Lucian, a single dancer or mime was
able to express all the incidents and sentiments of a
whole tragedy or epic poem, by action, accompanied.
with music, as in the ancient recitation ; and the fable
of Proteus, he seemed to think, meant no more than
that he was·an accomplished pantomime.
The education of a mime would-by the same
writer's description of his qualities-seem to have
required his whole life to make himself master of his
profession ; for, says he, I shall now unfold the qua-
lities which a good dancer ought to have, to show
that this art is none of the easiest ; for the pantomime,
or dancer of the ballet, must know several things, as
poetry, geometry, music, and philosophy; he must
also have the secret of expressing the passion· and
motion of the soul which rhetoric teaches, and borrow
from painting and sculpture the different postures and-
faces; above all, he has need of a memory ; like Chat-·
chas, in Homer, he must know the past, the present,·
and what is to come, and have them always ready in
his mind ; in short, as the Pythian oracle said, the
spectator must undwatand the dancer though dumb,
and hear him though·silent. ·
Herodotus says, " The eyes are. more faithful than
the ears, because you sooner believe what you ..e
than what you hear."
Lucian mentions a famous mime, who played Ajax
the madman so well, and raged in such a way, that
one would have said he did not counterfeit, but wa.a
•
250 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
mad in reality; and the spectators were so ravished
with the extravagance they beheld, that they made a
hundred ridiculous postures, as if they had be~n mad
dlemselVf.B.
Timocrates, a tutor in philosophy, and who, from
., conscientious motives, had declined being present at
such games, by accident aeeing a pantomime, cried
out, " what admirable sights have I lost by a phi-
losophical modesty !" and ever afterwards attended
them. -
This kind of scenic representation was given at
funerals, and the actors were called archimimes ; they
went before the coffin, and imitated the gestures end
actions of the deceased ; his virtues and vices were
exhibited, but the propensity to raillery inclined the
mimes rather to reveal the frailties, than paint the
virtues, of the departed._ ·
Demetrius the cynic, a disciple of Apollonius Ty-
aneus, disdained and railed at the art, as an absurd
and useless motion, and that all tbtt succf'SS of the
mimes was derived solely from the music ; but a
famout1 mime, in Nero's time, invited him to see him
dance, and, having witnessed hia performance, thett
to find fault with him. Having imposed silence on
the music, he danced the story of the amours of Mara
and Venus, the discovery of them by the Sun, and
Vulcan catching them in his steel net ; in short, eo
well was it done, that Demetriu1, transported, cried
out aloud, "I hear, my friend, what you act; I not
only see the persons you represent, but methink1 you
apeak with your handl."
A barbarian prince having come to Rome from
Pontut, aud witnessing the performance of this eame
man. begged him as a present from Nero, who asked
the rue he waDted to make of him. The priDoe re-
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 251
plied, that he had many nations bordering on his, all
of which spoke different'languages, and that he found
it difficult to procure interpreters to them all ; which
difficulty would be removed by the possession of thia
man ; since, by his movements and gesticulations, he
could inform him of all the others had to negotiate.
Another barbarian, coming to see a piece which
seemed to require five actors, and finding only one,
inquired who would personate the other four; but, u
the end of the exhibition, be said, " I was mistakf'n in
you, my friend ; who, though you have but one body,
have five souls.''
Augustus, by rf'Calling Pylades, a banished panto-
mimist, greatly gratified the Roman people, and eli.
verted their attention from popul.ar ebullitions; for
which reason, amongst others, it .is said, they ceased
to be angry with some inconvenient laws which that
emperor had made.
The great rival of_Pylades was D..thyllus : but he-
had another rival, one Hylas, a former pupil of his.
Backed by the public, which had taken offence at an
indiscretion committed by Pylades, Hylas ventured to
challenge his former tutor to a trial of skill. The
character of Agamemnon was that in which the·OOID•
petitors were to exhibit their talents. The better to
personate the great leader of the Greeks, Hylas wore
high buskins, and stood upon tiptoe. This mistake
of physical for moral greatneBS was loudly applauded
by the prejudiced spectators. Pylades at length came
forward. His attitudes were noble and striking. His
arms were crossed over his chest; his eyes were some-
times fixed in deep meditation on the ground, and
sometimes turned to heaven. Every gesture and
!!very look marked a sovereign who was pondering
on tlie most important atfairs. So expressive was his
252 SKETCHES OF' IMPOSTURE,
action, that his enemies were not proof against the
charm of it, and the theatre echoed with tumultuous
acclamations. Turning to his ba1Bed rival, Pylades
coolly said, '' Young man, we had to represent the
king of kings ; you made him tall, and I made him
great.'~ ·
John Kemble is said to have ironically confounded
these distinctions, on the appearance of a new candi-
date for public approbation on the London stage,
who exceeded the military standard considerably in
height. After the performance, a critic asked
Kemble what he though of Mr. C---; alluding,
of course, to his histrionic talent. "Why, sir," replied
Kemble, in his dignified manner, " I think Mr.
C--- a very tall man.''
There is less to be said of this art in its present
state, though pantomime, considered distinct fro·m
harlequinade, now receives ·great att~:ntion in Italy.·
The splendour of the getting up, and the decorations
of the ballets, at the grand theatre of " La Scala,"
at Milan, exceed anything of the kind at other capi-
tals; and the first dancers in such pieces receive con-
tinued applause for their e)tertions,.though belonging
rathef to the department of the posture-master, than
to that of descriptive imitation•
.The "Somnambulist," however, as performed a.
few seasons since in England, was a fine specimen of
dumb action. Some of the personifications or portraits
of Mr. Ducrow, on horseback, were also executed
with great cleverness*.
• It Ia a fortunate circumatance, both for Mr. Ducrow and bia
intelligent honea, that they live in the age they do ; for, about the
year. 1690, a hone, that bad been taught a few surprising pranka,
waa· condemned to die for his profound learning, as an impious·
practitioner of the black art, by that supreme judge of the Chria-
tiaD iidtb1 tbe CourtOf the Holy lnquiaition; •
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 258
The acting of portraits and historical pictures, ex-
hibited with the greatest :fidelity of.· costume and atti·
tude, by amateurs at Florence, is another species of
ingenious deception, which i~ almost perfect; and,
having lately been made instrumental to the general
purposes of the drama, is likely to become a fruitful
source of attraction at our theatres, where it com-
menced with the exact representation of Wilkie's
"Rent-day," and "Distraining for Rent." This
idea, if followed up, will make our best artists scene-
painters, in spite of themselves. This is not the :first
time that favourite subjects from the pencil of the
artist have been· adapted to the stage ; for Mr.
Ireland, in his " Illustrations of Hogarth," informs
us, that the :first series of that painter, "The Harlot's
Progress," excited so much attention and expectation,
that above twelve hundred names were entered in the
subscription-book for Ute engravings : the whole
series were copied on fan-mounts, three on one side,
and three on the other. It was transferred from the
copper to the stage, in the form of pantomime, by
Theophilus Cibber, and again represented in a ballad
opera, entitled " The Jew decoyed."
The war dance, among the native Americana, is
most striking. ....Jt is the representation of a ~mplete
American campaign. The departure of ·the warriors
from their village, their march into the enemy's coun-
try, the caution with which they encamp, the address
with which they station some of their party in am-
bush, the manner of surprising the enemy, the noise
and ferocity of the combat, the scalping of those who
are slain, the seizing of the prisoners, the triumphant
return of the conquerors, and the torture of the
victims, are successively exhibited. The performers
enter with such enthusiastic ardour into their several
254 BKETCH.£8 01' lMPOSTURB1
.parts ; their gestures, their countenance, their voice,
are so wild, and so well adapted to their various situ-
ations, that Europeans can hardly believe it to be a
mimic !Cene, or view it without emotions of horror.
CHAPTER XVII.
IIY8TEI!tY 01' TBJ: IIJ.N Uf TBJ: IR.OM IIUSK,
The man with the Iron Maak proved to be Matthioli-Who Mat.
· tbioli waa-He is bribed by Louia XIV. to obtain the SutTender '
ofCaaale-He violate& his Engagement with the French Monarch
-Louia resolves to take Vengeance on him-Mattbioli is lured
into the Handaof the French Jl11ents-He is made Priaoner-ln-
aU'Uctionsgiven byLouis, relative tothe Treatmentofthe Prieonor
-Matthioli ie compelled to wear a Maak-A mad Jacobin Monk
is confined with him -Heis removed to Exilles-Again removed
to the Island of St. Margaret-Manner in which he t111velled
-Aneedotea respecting him-H~ iaagain removed te the Baetile
-Hia death-Precaution& taken after hia Death to preacrvo Se-
crecy•
. THE curiosity of the public, uys Mr. Agar Ellis,
from whose clear and satisfactory work on this subject
the following account has been condensed, bas been, for
aboveonehundredyears, somuchexcited bythe mystery
which enveloped the name of the ~an of the Iron
Mask, that numerous papers have been written, and
coojectures hazarded, in favour of different theories;
all with some semblance of probability, yet all unsatis-
factory. M. Delort, by consulting the_archives of the
French government, found the correspondence of the
French ministers of that time, which proved, beyond
a doubt, that the Man of the Iron Mask was an
Italian of the name of Matthioli. '
He entered into the service of Charles, third Duke
of Mantua, by whom he was much favoured, IUld wu
D.CEPTION, AND CBBDULITY. 2b5
- .
made secretary of state. Towards the end of the
year 1677, the Abbe D'Estrades, amball8&dor froa
Louis the Fourteenth to the ~blic of Venice, was
anxious to induce the Duke of Mantua to allow of the
introduction of a French garrison into Casale ; whi~h
place was, in a great measure, the key of·Italy.
D'Estrades sought a channel of communication to the
Duke through Mattbioli, who fell into his schemes,
and, in a letter, offered to devote himself to Louis,
whom, he said, be regarded and revered as a demigod.
He had a terrible reason, afterwards, for altering hi•
opinion of'that implacable monarch.
In the further course of the treaty, between Louis
and the Duke, it was proposed to send Mattbioli to
the French court. This it seemed D'Estrades was
not anxious for, and he resolved to obstruct the de-
parture of Matthioli fur France as long as it was pos-
sible. Matthioli, howevtlr, of his own accord deferred-
his journey from the spring to the autumn, and
arrived at Paris about the end of November, 1678.
He had the honour of an interview with Louis, who
gave him a ring of value, and promised greater thing1
after the ratification of the treaty. He soon after
returned to Italy.
Suspicions being, however, excitetl in the neigh~
bouring states, at the report of the French troops
assembling so near the territories of the Duke of
Savoy, remonstrances were made to the proper
authorities, and the agents of the French government
became anxious to have the treaty ratified ; but in
the same proportion did Count Matthioli find fresh
excuses for.delay.
These excuses appear to have given the Frenca
court a suspicion of his fidelity, but it i1 not known
256 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTVRE,
whether he was bribed by the Spaniards, or not ·suf-
ficiently so by the French.
t Reproaches andthreatswerenowmad~ byD'Estrades,
and the treachery of Matthioli became every day more
apparent; and it subsequently appeared that he had
received a sum of money for his ·information from
Turchi, one of the ministers of the Duchess of Savov.
Matthioli informed the French agent, that the Duke
of Mantua had been obliged to conclude a treaty with
the Venetians, the object of which was directly op-
posed to that entered into with the French. M. J?in-
chesne, charge d'affaires at Venice, though convinced
of the perfidy of Matthioli, did not break with him,
but advised him to go to confer with D'Estrades at
Turin : Matthioli followed this advice, to his own
ruin.
· The vindictive Louis had, meanwhile, determined
to satisfy his wounded pride and frustrated ambition,
by taking signal vengeance on Matthioli, and he ac-
cordingly sent orders to D'Estrades to try and arrest
and guard him in such a manner " that not only may
he not have communication with any one else, but
that he may have cause to repent of his own bad
conduct." Matthioli complaining to D'Estrades of
want of money, favoured the plan proposed by which
to arrest him, as he was recommended to meet Catinat
at the French frontiers near Pignerol ; where also
D'Estrades would be present.
Three miles from the place of rendezvous, they
were stopped by a river, the bridge over which had
been broken down by an inundation. Matthioli him-
self assisted to repair the bridge, over which he was
to be conveyed into captivity.
Being questioned at the conference with Catinat,
DECEPTION, AND CREDUJ.ITY. 257
he informed those present where all the original papers
relative to the delivery of Casale would be found,
though it seems this confession of his was false, as
they were afterwards discovered, concealed in a wall
at Padua.
He·was then without ceremony arrested, and after
his arrest no one was permitted to approach him :
the most extraordinary precautions were taken against
discovery, particularly that of obliging him to wear a
mask during his journey when he saw any one, to
conceal this violent breach of the law of nations ;
Matthioli being at this time plenipotentiary of the
Duke of Mantua, for concluding a treaty with France :
and the same reasons for concealment existed till his
death, since that event happened while both L-ouis
and the Duke of Mantua were still alive. This ac-
counts for his confinement being always solitary and
secret ; one act of diplomatic treachery, however,
could never warrant the infliction of the most horrible
of all punishments, solitary confinement for twenty-
four years in a dungeon ; but Louis, whether as a man
or a sovereign, was one of the most cruel and tyran-
nical characters transmitted to us in history.
By direction of D'Estrades, 1\Iatthioli was at first
well treated, but his gaoler afterwards received the
following instructions :-"It is not the intention of
the king that. the Sieur de Lestang,"-the name given
to him,-" should be well treated, nor that, except the
absolute necessaries of life, should he have any thing.
given to him, that may make him pass his time
agreeably." Repeated injunctions, to this effect, are
a proof how much importance the rancorous Louis
attached to his victim being compelled to drink his
bitter draught of captivity to the very dregs. The
harshness and hopelessness of his prison seem to have
8
258 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
affected the intellects of Matthioli ;-nor can that
excite much wonder,-for his gaoler, St. Mars, reports
that in his frenzy and despair he used violent lan-
guage, and wrote abusive sentences with charcoal on
the walls of his prison. Being threatened with the
blows of a cudgel, he became more quiet, and, to pro-
pitiate the man who attended him, he took a valuable
ring from his finger aud offered it to him, which, how-
ever, the attendant gave to St. Mars.
In the same prison was a Jacobin monk, who was
also mad, probably from ill-usage and long confine-
ment, and St. Mars put him with Matthioli, that the
same priest might serve them both. Matthioli at first
thought his companion was placed there as a·spy, but
was soon undeceived, as the monk started up naked,
and began to preach. " I and my lieutenants," re-
ported St. Mars, " saw all their manoouvres through
a hole over the door ;" aud they appear to have de-
rived much entertainment from such a miserable
apectacle.
With regard to clothing, St. Mars was desired to
make the clothes of such men as Matthioli last three
or four years, which orders sufficiently refute the
absurd stories of the richness of the lace, and fineness
of the linen, worn by the man of the iron mask.
St. Mars was appointed to the government of
Exilles, and was desired to take his two prisoners along
with pim ; but the repairs requisite in the new prison,
for_ the sake of secrecy, were done as if at the expense
of St. Mars, the king allowing him privately one thou-
sand crowns for that purpose. At Exilles, the pri-
soners were able to hear the persons who passed along
the road, at the foot of the prison ; but they could not
be heard from the road. .
No report appea~s to have been made of them till
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 259
1685, when it was said that the prisoners were still
ill, but tranquil.
After a time the Jacobin died, and St. Mars,
finding his own health fail, petitioned for a removal,
at~d was appointed to the islands of St. Margaret and
St. Honorat, on the coast of Provence. He was
ordered to take Matthioli along with him.
During his journey the prisoner was conveyed in a
chair covered with oil-cloth, and without its being
possible for any one to see or speak to him. It
seems, too, that the poor wretch was stinted even of
the breath of heaven ; for St. Mars sent the following
report: ''I was only twelve days on the journey, in
consequence of the illness of my prisoner, occasioned,
as he said, by not having air enough ; and the man-
ner in which he was guarded made every body try to
conjecture who he was."
It was, probably, during this journey that St. Mars
first made use of a mask to hide his prisoner's fea-
tures. This mask was not made, as has been erro-
neously supposed, of iron, but of black velvet,
strengthened .with whalebone, and fastened behind
by a padlock. It did not prevent his eating or
drinking.
The identity of the man in the iron mask and the
unfortunate Matthioli is very satisfactorily proved by
the evidence of the several reports and letters before
referred to, as discovered in the archives of the
French government, and which, for the further satis-
faction of his readers, Mr. Agar Ellis has inserted
in an appendix ; but ithas not been thought necessary
to quote them more at large in this sketch of his mis-
fortunes.
Matthioli's valet died at St. Margaret's, and a wo-
man was engaged to wait upon him ; but she declined
s 2
260 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
when she found she would never be permitted to see
her family again.
Among the anecdotes given of this prisoner, and
to enhance the romantic interest which has always
been excited about his fate, it bas been mentioned
that this mysterious person wrote his name and qua-
lities with the point of a knife on a silver plate, and
threw it out of his window, and that it was picked up
by a fisherman, who brought it to St. Mars. The
fisherman, having asserted that he could not read,
was released. Again, it is said that he covered one
of his shirts with writing, and threw it also out of
the window. A monk, having found it, took it to the
governor, with a declaration that be had not read it;
but two days after he was found dead in his bed.
These stories evidently spring from one of St. Mars'
reports, in which he says, he has been obliged to in-
flict corporal punishment on a protestant minister
named Salves, because he would write things upon
his pewter platter and his linen, in order to make it
known that he was unjustly imprisoned for his faith.
After eleven years' confinement at St. Margaret's,
Matthioli accompanied St. Mars to the Bastil~. The
same secrecy as before prevailed during his journey
to Paris. At dinner, he sat with his back to the
light ; and St. Mars opposite to him, with a brace of
pistols on the table. -
While he was in the Bastile, if he was ever allowed
to go to mass, the Invalids who kept guard there were.
ordered to fire upon him if he spoke to any one.
At length he died, after five years' captivity in the
Bastile. He was sixty-three years old ; but he told
the apothecary that he thought he was sixty-an in~
accuracy easily to be believed in a man so long and
rigorously confined,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 261
After his death, every thing was done that could
destroy all traces of his former existence ! his clothes
were burned, as well as the furniture of the room, all
the plate of every kind was melted down, the walls of
his chamber were scraped, and then fresh whitewashed,
the ftoor was new paved, the old ceiling taken down,
the doors and windows burnt, and every cor~er most
narrowly searched.
It has been stated, on more than one authority,
that Louis the Fifteenth well knew who the celebrated
state prisoner really was; and affirmed more than
once, that he was the minister of one or the Italian
princes ; but this confession was considered at the
time only to be an evasion, to put a stop to a more
rigid inquiry. But let the unhappy victim be whom
he might, such. atrocious and persevering revenge
deserves the execration of all who have not forgotten
their feelings as men.
CHAPTER XVIII.
TBE sopTR BU BOBBLB•
•General Infatuation with respect to the South Sea Bubble-Lite-
rary Men caught the Infection-Gay, the Poet, !osesall his Pro-
perty-Chandler is_ ruined, and forced to become a Bookseller-
Origin of the South Sea Scheme-The House of Lordsis hostile
to it-Difference of the South Sea and Mississippi Schemes-'-
Lying Reports spread by Sir John Blunt, to raise the Price of
·Stock-Consequence of them-Change-alley is crowded by all
Clasees-Numerous Bubbles--Ludicrous Impudence of some of
them-Downfall of the South Sea Scheme-Escape of Knight,
the Treasurer-Bribes to Membcn of the Administration, &c.-
Parliamentary Mensurcs against the Guilty-The Bubbles put
down by Proclamation-Sir R. Steele's Multiplication Table-
Speculations in 1825.
PuBLIC credulity, founded on the inordinate desire
of gain, was perhaps never exhibited in a stronger
I·
262 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
point of view than by the fatal belief in the South
Sea scheme, which, to the credulous adventurer, was
made to appear a royal road to El Dorado.
The first act of this fearful drama passed off with
the greatest eclat. The wand of the enchanter not
only seemed to, but really did, for a time, instantly
convert whatever it touched into gold. Waiving all
the financial particulars in detail, this account will be
confined to an outline of the imposture, which had
such lamentable success through the greedy credulity
of the public.
The South Sea project continued throughout its
whole course to be applauded to the skies, by the un-
principled and unthinking, until its catastrophe
plunged thousands into one common abyss of ruin.
It was patronised by persons of both sexes, and in
the highest ranks of society; nay, even by royalty
itself, if the authority of the Ducht>ss of Ormond, in
a letter to Swift, may be deemed sufficient to authen- .
ticate the fact. Prior said in one Of his letters, " I
am tired of politks, and lost in the South Sea; the
roaring of its waves and the madness of the people
are justly put together." .
• Men 'of letters were not more exempt than others
from the reigning infection. The poet Gay had a
present of some South Sea stock given to him, and
he -once supposed himself worth twenty thousand
pounds ; his friends advised him to dispose even of a
share of it, but, filled with dreams of wealth, he re-
plied, that he could not hear to diminish his own for-
tune. He even refused to purchase an annuity of one
hundred pounds, " which," said Fenton, " will make
you sure of a clean shirt and a shoulder of mutton
every day." At last, however, with the general
wreck, every thing- he h"d possessed was totally lost,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 263
imd Gay himself had nearly sunk under the cala-
mity.
Chandler, the learned non-conformist divine, lost.
his whole fortune ; and for subsistence was obliged to
open a bookseller's shop in the Poultry.
The history of this famous, or rather infamous spe-
culation was this :-the South Sea Company origi-
nated in the reign of queen Anne, in the year 1711;
a fund being formed on the chimerical supposition
that the English would be allowed to trade to the
coast of Peru. Nine years elapsed until the projec-
tion of the great scheme, and 1720 witnessed the
infancy, maturity, and decay of that celebrated delu-
sion. Sir John Blunt, who was bred a scrivener,
devised the scheme, and communicated it to Mr.
Aislabie, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The
pretence of this scheme was, to discharge the national
debt, by reducing all the funds into one. The Bank
of England and the South Sea Company vied with
each other ; but the South Sea Company ultimately
offered such high terms that the proposal of the Bank
was rejected: whilst this was in agitation, the stock
of the company rose considerably.
Both houses of parliament debated the question,
and the House of Lords opposed the bill, on the
ground that it was calculated for enriching the few
and impoverishing the many, and that it ~ounte­
nanced the fraudulent practice of stock-jobbing, which
diverted the genius of the people from trade and in-
dustry, and that it would also give foreigners the
opportunity to double and treble the vast sums they
had in the public funds, with which they might with-
draw to other countries, and England would thus l)e
drained of its gold and silver.
This South Sea scheme produced. a kind of national
264 SltE1'CiiES OP' IMPOSTt7Rl!!,
delirium in England, and was, in a manner, a second
act to one which took place a .short time before on
the Continent. Sir John Blunt, in fact, took his hint
from Law's famous Mississippi scheme, which, in the
preceding years, had raised such a ferment in FrancE',
and entailed ruin on thousands of families there.
Law"s scheme was as follows :-A royal bank was
erected by subscription, and, having a fund in hand to
answer bills on demand, the scheme began to take•
and established its credit by its punctual discharge, .
till it increased to such an extraordinary magnitftdo
astopaybillsfor one million and a quarter sterlingaday.
IR this project of Law's, however, there Wl\8 some•
thing substantial; an exclusive trade to Louisiana
promised advantage, though the design was deteated
hy the frantic eagerness of the ~ople. Law himself
had become the dupe of the Regent, who transferred
the burden of fifteen hundred millions of francs of
the king's debt to the shoulders of the people, while
the projector was sacrificed as the scapegoat of poli-
tical iniquity.
The South Sea scheme promised no commercial
advantage of any consequence; it was bu!Jyed up by
nothing but the folly aftd rapacity of individuals, who
became so blind and extravagant, that Blunt, with
moderate talents, was able to impose on the whole
nation, and make tools of the other directors to serve
his own purpose.
When the projector found that the South Sea stock
did not rise to his expectation, he circulated reports
that Gibraltar and Port Mahon would be exchanged
for some places in Peru, by which means the South
Sea trade would be protected and enlarged. This
report acted like a contagion : in five days the direc-
tors opened their books for a subscription or· one
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 265
million, at the rate of three hundred pounds for every.
hundred pounds of capital; persons of all ranks
crowded to the house. The first subscription soon
exceeded two millions of the original stock; in a few
days the stock advanced to three hundred and forty
pounds, and afterwards to one thousand pounds.
The Exchange-alley was filled with a strange con-
course of statesmen, clergymen, dissenters, whigs,
tori.es, physicians, lawyers, &c. &c., and even females.
All other professions and employments were neglected,
and the atte1,1tion of people was wholly engrossed by
this and other chimerical schemes, which subsequently
obtained the appropriate name of bubbles•.
New companies started up every day, and all met
with encouragement ; an obscnre projector, pretend-
ing to have formed a Tery advantageous scheme-
which, however, he did not explain-published pro..
posals for a subscription, in which he promised, that
• Bubblewasa name givan to all theextmvagant projects for which
subscriptions were t'ILised, and negotiated at vast premiumsin Change-
alley, in the year 1720 ; a name, which alluded to their production
by the boiling ferment of the South Sea scheme, and not to their
splendour, emptiness, or inutility, for it did not become a name of re-
pf<H!Ch in this case till time completed the metaphor,and the bubbl•
broke. .
Bulls and Bears, those terms now so common on'Change, are an.
otherlegacyof the South Sea speculation. He who sells that ofwhich
he is not possessed, is proverbially said to sell the skin before he
has caught the bear. It was the practice of stock-jobbers, in 1720,
to enter into contracts for transferring South Sea atock at a future
time for a certain price; but be who contracted to aell, had frequently
. no stock to tmnsfer, nor did qp who bought, intend to receive any in
consequence of his bargain ; lhe seller was therefore called a bear,
in allusion to the proverb, and the buyer a bull, perhaps only as a
distinction. The contract waa merely a wager, to be determined by
the rise or fall of stock ; if it rose, the seller paid to the buyer the
difference proportioned to the sum detet·mined by the same compu.
tation to the aoller.
266 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
in one month the particulars would he disclosed ; in
the mean time, each person paying two guineas would
be entitled to a subscription of one hundred pounds,
which would produce that sum yearly. In one after-
noon the advertiser received one thousand subscrip-
tions, and in the evening be set out for another
kingdom.
There were some shares of a fictitious company,
cal~ed Globe ·permits, each of which came at last to
be currently !lold for sixty guineas and upwards; and
yet were nevertheless only square hits of card, on
which were the impression of a seal in wax, having
the sign of the Globe tavern. A burlesque upon
this reigning madness appeared as an advertisement;
in which it was set forth, that at a certain fictitiQus
place on the following Tuesday, books would be opened
for a subscription of two millions, for the invention
of melting down sawdust and chips, and casting them
into clean deal hoards without knots.
The public infatuation lasted till the 8th of Sep-
tember, when the South Sea stock began to fall, and
some of the adventurers awoke from their delirium.
The number of sellers now daily increased ; on the
29th the stock had sunk to one hundred and fifty
po.unds ; several eminent goldsmiths and hankers who
bad lent money, were obliged to stop payment and
abscond ; and the ebb of this portentous tide was so
violent that it carried everything in its way, and an
infinite number of families were overwhelmed with
ruin. Public credit sustained a terrible shock ; the .
nation was thrown into a d'iingerous ferment, and
nothing was heard but the ravings of disappointment,
grief, and despair.
Some of the principal members of the:ministry were
deeply concerned, andemployed their interest with the
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 267
Bank ofEngland to support thecredit ofthe SouthSea
scheme. This, for a time, favoured the sale of the
shares; and those who contrived it seized the oppor-
tunity to realise theirs. ,
On the bursting of the bubble, George I. was sent
for from Hanover; parliament met, and bills were
passed with the hopes of alleviation ; one measure,
which it was hoped would contribute to restore public
credit, was the engrossment of nine millions of the
,capital stock of the South Sea Company into the
capital of the Bank of England and East India
Company.
Knight, the treasurer of the South Sea Company,
withdrew from the kingdom ; he was followed to the
Continent, but escaped arrest. Secret committees of
investigation were formed in the House of Commons,
and they discovered a train of the deepest villany and
fraud that was ever contrived to ruin a nation. The
persons of the actors, directors, and principal officers,
were consequently secured.
On inquiry, it appeared that large sums had been
· given to persons in the administration and House of
Commons, for promoting the passing of the act, and
a fictitious stock of five hundred and seventy-four
thousand pounds had been disposed of by the directOI'II
to facilitate the passing of the bill, the greater part of
which had been distributed amongst the directors.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer was expelled the
house, and committed to the Tower; the evidence
against him appeared so conclusive that it was re·
solved, "that he hat! promoted the destructive execu-
tion of the South Sea scheme, with a view to his own
exorbitant profit, and had combined with the directors
in their pernicious practices, to the ruin of public
credit." The estates of many of the directors, those
268 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTUR:£,
most implicated in the villany of.the transaction, were
confiscated ,.or the benefit of the sufferers. The
directors, in obedience to the orders of the house, de-
livered in inventories of them ; a certain allowance
from each estate being deducted for each dil"ector, ac-
cording to his conduct and circumstances.
On the llth of June, 1720, the king issued a pro-
clamation relative to those projects named bubbles.
which, for a few days, gave some check to that fatal
traffic; yet, in the face of all authority, it soon re-
vived, and even increased more than ever; and whilst
the shares daily advanced every one was a gainer, so
that the lower classes fell into luxury and prodigality,
as well as others. From morning till evening pur-
chasers applied in such crowds in Change-alley, as to
choke up the thoroughfare; and such was the wild
confusion in the multitude, that the same project or
bubble was known to have been sold, at the same
moment, ten per cent. higher at one end of the alley
than the other.
The mania was so great at that time, that no fewer
than two hundr.ed and forty bubbles, of different de-
scriptions, were blown by needy and knavish pro-
jectors ; which shortly burst, and left but a wreck
behind.
The government now determined to' put them
down ; fatal writs of scire facias were issued on the
18th of August, and the crown lawyers were ordered
strictly to prosecute all such as had op~ned books of
subscription, and all who subscribed to them.
In the series of essays called' the Guardian, Mr.
Addison alludes to Steele's " Multiplication Table,"
a species of lottery which was proved illegal; further
notice of it is to be found in No. 413 of the Spec-
tator, in a letter addressed by Steele himself to Mr.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 269
Addison, wherein he says, " this scheme of gain is
called the multiplication table, and is so far calculated
for the immediate service of her majesty, that the
same person who is fortunate in the lottery of the
state, may receive yet further advantages. The man-
ner of executing the design is by giving out receipts
for half-guineas received, which shall entitle the for-
tunate bearer to certain sums in the table, as is set
forth at large in the proposal."
Soon after, Steele sent the following advertisement
to a subsequent number ofthe Spectator: " Whereas
the proposal-called the Multiplication Table is under
an information from the Attorney-General, in humble
submission and duty to her majesty, the said_ under-
taking is laid down, and attendance is given at the
office, in order to repay such sums as have been paid
in the said table, without deduction."
In 1825, the general feeling was again led captive
by the unreasonable hopes of speculation. In January
of that year there existed no less than one hundred
and twenty speculations, carried on, as it was termed,
by companies, under the heads of Railroad Compa-
nies, Bank and Loan Companies, Gas Companies,
British and Irish Mines' Companies, Foreign Com-
panies, Ship and Dock Companies, and 1.\liscellaneous
Companies; which often consisted of only the pro-
jector and his clerk. Though great misery, and fre-
quent ruin, were the undoubted consequences of
these speculation~:~, yet no such extensively disastrous
results ocourred as those which followed the infamous
South Sea llubble.
270 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
CHAPTER XlX.
ATTEMPT TO STEAL TBB REGALU. FROII THE TOWER.
First Opening of the Regalia to public Inspection-Edwards ap-
pointed Ke~pcr-Plan formed by Blood to steal the Regalia-
He visits the Tower with his pretended Wife-Means by which
he contrived to become intimate with Edwards-His Arrange-
ments for carrying his Scheme into Execution-He knocks down
Edwards, and obtainsPossession of the Jewels-Fortunate Chance
by which his Scheme was frustrated-He is taken-Charles II.
is present at his Examination-Blood contrivesto obtain a Pardon,
and the Gift of an Estate from the King.
BAYLEY, in his History of the Tower of London,
has very circumstantially related the attempt made by
a desperado, named Blood, to steal the regalia from
thence; though it failed in the execution, this scheme
was most ingeniously planned. The subsequent in-
genuity of the culprit, on his examination before the
king, also saved him from a just punishment, and not
only procured him pardon for his offence, but even a
handsome reward in the form of an annuity.
Soon after the appointment of Sir Giles Talbot to
the office of Master of the Jewel-House in the Tower,
the regalia first became the object of public inspec-
tion. The privilege of showing them was granted by
Charles II. to the keeper, in consequence of certain
reductions in the emoluments of the office. The per-
son appointed to take charge of them. was a con-
.fidential servant, named Talbot Edwards; and soon
after, in 1673, the attempt of the notorious Blood was
made.
Three weeks before the execution of his plan,
Blood went to the Tower, in the canonical habit of a
clergyman, accompanied by a woman whom he called
his wife. They desired to see the regalia, arid just as
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 271
their wishes had been gratified, the lady feigned indis-
position : this circumstance called forth the kind ·
offices of Mrs. Edwards, who courteous!! invited her
into the dwelling-house. The lady, however, soon
recovered, and, on departing, professed great grati-
tude.
A few days after this, Blood came again, bringing
Mrs. Edwards four pair of white gloves, as a present
from his pretended wife. This civility opened a way
to a more intimate acquaintance, and, at length, Blood
offered a proposal of marriage between his nephew,
(whom he represented as possessing two hundred
pounds per annum in land), and Miss Edwards, if
agreeable to all parties, on a longer acquaintance, A
treaty was entered into, and the young gentleman was
to come in a day or two to be presented.
At the time appointed, Blood went with three
others to the Jewel-HQuse, armed with rapier-blades
in their canes, and every one had a dagger, and a
brace of pistols. Two of the friends, to fill up the
time whilst the daughter was adorning herself, ex-
pressed a wish to view the regalia before dinner, and
it was arranged, that, together with Blood, they
should accompany old Mr. Edwards for that purpose,
whilst the anxious lover should wait below for the com-
ing of his mistress, but in reality to watch lest inter-
ruption should take place. When the three had
entered with Edwards into the room, a cloak was
thrown over him, a gag was placed in his mouth, and
he was threatened with death if he made the least
noise ; but, as he was not intimidated, and made at-
tempts to sound an alarm, he was silenced by some
blows on the head with a mallet, and a stab in the
belly, when he lay as if dead.
They then proceeded to secrete the booty about
272 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
their persons. One of them, named Parrot, put the
• orb .into his pocket, Blood held the crown under his
cloak, and tile third was about to file the sceptre into
two pieces, to place it in a bag, when fortunately the
son of Mr. Edwards visited his father, and, regardless
of the opposition made by the watchful pretended
lover, persisted to force his way in. The scuftle be-
low was heard, and, this unexpected incident spreading
confusion among them, they instantly decamped, leav-
ing the sceptre undivided. The aged keepe:r, re-
covering, forced the gag from his mouth, and cried
"Treason!" The alarm was given, and parties were
sent to the several gates to stop them. They escaped,
however, out at St. Catherine's gate, where horses
were waiting for them, but were speedily overtaken.
Under Blood's cloak was found the crown, and, even
when a prisoner, he had the impudence to struggle
for his prize, and said it was a gallant attempt, how-
ever unsuccessful, as it was for a crown.
In the struggle the great pearl, and a large diamond,
with a few smaller jewels, were lost from the crown,
but fortunately they were afterw:;.rds found and re-
stored.
Blood being carried before Sir Gilbert Talbot, the
king went to hear his examination and confession.
This was a fortunate circumstance for the culprit, who
artfully worked at once on the vanity and the appre-
hensions of the monarch. He told him that he had
formerly been engaged with others to kill his majesty,
while he was bathing at Battersea, and bad concealed
himself in the reeds to effect his purpose ; but that
when he had taken aim the awe inspired by the royal
presence unnerved his hand, and he desisted from his
sanguinary design. He added, that he was but one
of three hundred, who were sworn to revenge each
DEC&PTION, AND CREDULITY. 2i3
other's fall; that the king might do with him as he
pleased, but that, by dooming him to suffer, he would
endanger his own life, and the lives of his advisers ;
.while, on the contrary, by displaying clemency, he
would win the gratitude and the services of a band of
fearless and faithful followers. Either won over by
.the boldness and candour of the ruffian, or alarmed by
his threats, Charles not only pardoned Blood, but
likewise gave him an estate in Ireland, worth 500l. a
year. Poor Edwards (who suffered severely from his
injuries), was less fortunate; he had only a grant of
two hundred pounds, and his son one hundred, and
even of these trifling sums the payment was so long
deferred, that they were obliged to sell the orders at
half price for ready money.
CHAPTER XX.
'VAM.PYB.l811•
.
Honible natnre of the Supcntition of Vampyrism-Penons at..
tacked by Vampyres become Vampyrco themselves-Signa by
which a Vampyrc was known-Origin ofone of the signs-Effect
attributed to Excommunication in the Greek church-Story of an
excommunir.ated Oreek-Calmet's theory of the oiigin of the Su-
pentition respecting Vampyres-St. Stanislas-Philinnium-The
Strygis supposed to have given the idea of the Vampyre-Capitu-
lary of Charlemagne--Remedy againtlt attncks from the Demon '
-Anecdote of an impudent Vampyre-Stcry of a Vampyre at
Mycone-Prevalence of Vampyrism in tlie north of Europe-
Walacbian mode !If detecting Vampyros.
AMONG the many superstitions which have terri-
fied and degraded mankind, that which has received
the name of Vampyrism is, perhaps, the most horrible
and loathsome. The Vampyre, or Blood-sucker, has
T
274 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
been forcibly described as " a corporeal creature of
blood and unquenchable blood-thirst,-a ravenous
corpse, who rises in body and soul from his grave~
for the sole purpose ofglutting his sanguinary appe-
tite with the life-blood of those whose blood stag-
nates in his own veins. He is endowed with an
incorruptible frame to prey on the lives of his kin-
dred and his friends-he re-appears among them from
the world of the tomb, not to tell its secrets ofjoy or
of woe, not to invite or to warn by the testimony of
his experience, but to appal and assassinate those
.who were dearest to him on earth-and this, not for
the gratification of revenge or any human feeling,
which, however depraved, might find something in
common with human nature; but to banquet a
monstrans thirst, ~tcquired in the tomb, and which,
though he walks in human form and human linea-
ments, has swallowed up every human motive in its
brutal ferocity."
It is manifest that a being of this kind must be
infinitely ·more terrible than the common race of
ghosts, spectres, and fiendish visitants. But there
was another circumstance which inexpressibly height-
ened the horror excited by the dread of being at-
tacked. Wasting illness, dosed by death, was not
all that the victim had to endhre. He who was
sucked by a Vampyre was doomed to become in his
turn a member of the hideous community, and to
inflict on others, even on those who were nearest
and dearest to him, the same evils by which he had
himself suffered and perished. •
When a grave was opened in order to search for
one of these pests, to put a stop to his career, the
sanguinary offender was recognised by the corpse
being fresh and well preserved, the eyes open or half
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. '275
'closed, the face of avermilion hue, the limbs flexible,
the hair and nails long, and the pulse beating.
The idea of this unchanged state of the corpse·
seems to have originated from a superstition of the
Greek church. It was believed that excommunica-
tion, inflicted by the Greek priests, ~ad the power of
pt·eventing the lifeless remains of the excommuni-
cated person from sinking into decay. An.instance
of this effect being produced is mentioned by Ricaut,
in his History of the Greek Church. A young man,
of Milos, who had been put under the ecclesiastical
ban, was buried in a remote and unconsecrated
ground. He became a Vampyre, or, as the modern
Greeks term it, a Vroucolaca. The corpse was dis-
interred, and displayed all the signs of Vampyrism.
The priests were about to treat it as was ·usual in
such cases; but the friends of the deceased solicited
and obtained a cessation of hostilities, till a messen-
ger could be sent to Constantinople, to pray for ab-
solution from the Patriarch. The corpse, meanwhile,
was placed in t.he church, and masses were daily and
nightly said. One day. while the priest was reading
the service, a crash was beard from the coffin; the
lid was opened, and the body was found as entirely
decayed as though it bad been buried for seven years.
When the messenger arrived with the absolution, it
was ascertained that the Patriarch had affixed his
signature to it at the exact moment when the crash
was heard in the coffin l ·
. The superstition relative to Vampyres is supposed
by Calmet .
to be derived from ancient legends. The
first of these legends is the story of St. Stanislas rais-
ing a man, who had been dead three years, and whom
he called to life that he might give evidence, in the
aaint's behalf) in a court of justiee. After having
T2
276 Slt.ETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
given his testimony, the resuscitated man returned
quietly to his grave. A second is to be found in
Phlegon de Mirabilibus, who relates that a girl of
the name of Philinnium, a native of Tralles, in Asia
Minor, not only visited, ate, and drank, with her
lover, after her death, "but even cohabited with him.
But in neither of these cases do we find a trace of
the diabolical malignity which characterizes the Vam~
pyre. A more congenial origin may perhaps be
found in the Strygis, of which Ovid makes mention ;
and this origin appears the more probable when we
consider that, in the middle ages, the Strygis had an
established {lace among the demon tribe; and, in
the shape o suspected males and females, was often
burnt, among other sorcerers and magicians, by the
Lombards and Germans. There is extant a capitu-
lary of Charlemagne, which shows how prevalent the
belief was in the existence of the Strygis, and how
strong a resemblance the fiend bore to the Vampyre
ofmodern times. It enacts that "if any person, de-
ceived by the devil, shall believe, after the manner
of the Pagans, that any man or woman was a StrygiR,
or "Stryx, and was given to eat men, and for this cause
should burn such person, or should give such person's
flesh to be eaten, or should eat such flesh, such man
or woman should be capitally punished."
From the capitulary it is clear, that eating the
flesh of the delinquent Stryx was supposed to be a
femedy for the evils which the tlemon inflicted.
There is a somewhat similar circumstance connected
with the Vampyre, which strengthens' the idea that
it is a legitimate descendant of the Stryx. In a
French work, published nearly·a century and a half
ago, is an account of the Upiers or Vampyres, which
infested Poland and Russia. " They appear," says the
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 277 \
author, from mid-day to midnight, and suck the blood
of men and beasts in such abundance, that it often
issues again out of their mouth, nose and ean;
and the corpse 110metimes is found swimming in the
blood with which its cere-cloth .is filled. This Redi-
Yive, or Upier (or some demon in his form) rises
from the tombs, goes by night to hug and squeeze
violently his relations or friends, -and sucks thflir
blood, so as to weaken and exhaust .them, and at
length occasion their death. This persecution is not
confined to a single person, but extends throughout
the family, unless it is arrested by cutting offthe head,
or opening the heart, of the Upier, which they find
in its cere-cloth, soft, 1le:xible, tumid, and ruddy,
although long ago deed. ,A large quantity of blood
commonly ilows from the body, which BOme mi.f: up
with flour and make breaAl of it ; and thu bread,·
when eaten, u found to preswv• thBM from the tJe6-
ation·ofthe spectre." It is singular, however, that
though the Vampyre himself might thus be rt>nderf!d
edible, he was imagined to Communicatean infectious
quality to whatever he fed on ; so that, if any one
were unlucky enough to eat the 1lesh of cattle which
had been sucked, he would, after death, he sure of'
becoming a member of the blood~sucking fraternity.
In one part of his statement this author is incor-
rect. Vampyres were not to be so easily got rid of
· as he imagined. Nothing short of burning would, at
least in a majority of ca11es, put an end to their dia-'_
bolical visitations. Some.of them had the audacity
to make a jest of driving a stake through them. Of
this class was a peasant, of the village of Blow, in
Bohemia, who bad long been most mischievously
active. " At last they dug him up, and drove a stake·
through him, during which he had the impudence to
278: SKE'l'CRI!!S OP IMPOSTURE,
laugh and jeer at his executioners, at}d tharik thetu
for giving him a stick to defend himself against the
dogs. This' procedure did not answer at all. He
became still more troublesome than ever. Then thP.y
delivered him over to the hangman, who placed him
in a cart, to carry him out ofthe village and burn him.
But in this new situation he kicked and struggled
like a man in a frenzy, and, when they again drove
stakes into him, uttered loud shrieks; and gave a
large quantity of fine healthy blood. At last they
burnt him: and the village at the moment ceased to
be infested as before."
The beliefin Vampyrism prevailed in Greece,where,
as we have already stated, the demon was known by
the name of Vroucolaca, or Broucocolas. Tournefon
relates an amusing story of one that woefully annoyed
the inhabitants of Mycone. Prayers, processions,
stabbing with swords, sprinklings of holy water, and
even pouring it in large doses down the throat of the
refractory Vroucolaca, were all tried in vain. An
Albanian, who chanced to be at Mycone, objected to
two of these remedies. It was no wonder that the
devil continued in, be said, for how could he possibly
come through the holy water I and as to· the swords,
they were equally effectual in preventing his exit ;
for, their handles being crosses, he was so mueh terri-
fied that he dared not pass them. To obviate the
latter objection, he recommended that Turkish scyme-
t.ars should be used. The scymetars were accordingly
put in requisition, but the pertinacious devil still
retained his hold of the corpse, and played his pranks
with as much vigour as ever. At length, when all
the respectable inhabitants were packing up, to take
Bight to Syra or Tinos, an effectual mode of ousting
the Vroucolaca was fortunately suggested. The body
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 279 .
was committed to the flames, on the first of January,
170l,and the spirit, being thus forcibly l'jected from
his abode, was rendered incapable of doing farther
mischil'f. He, however, left behind him a legacy of
vexation to the Myconians; for, as a punishment for
having had doings with the evil one, a fine was im-
posed upon them by the Turks, when they next visited
the island to receive the capitation tax.
But though Vampyrism was known in Greece, it
was far more prevall'nt in Bohemia, Moravia, Silesia,
Polautl, Hungary, and Walachia. In those countries
it raged particularly from 1725 to 1735. There Willi
scarcely a village that was not said to be haunted by
one of the blood-sucking demons ; and the greatest
part of the population was a prey to terror. The
belief was not confined to the vulgar; all classes par-
ticipated in it; military and ecclesiastical commissions
were appointed to investigate the facts; and the
press teemed with dissertations and narratives from
the pens of erudite individuals, whose learning was at
least equalled by their inveterate credulity.
In the mode which was employed by the Wala-
chians for the detection of Vampyres, there is a touch
of the romantic. On a jet black horse, which had
never approached the female, they mounted a youn'g
boy, and made them pass up af\11 down in the church-
yard by all the graves; and wherever the animal
refused to proceed, they concluded that particular
grave to be inhabited by a vampyre. " They then
open it," says the narrator, " and find within it
corpse equally fat and fair as a man who is quietly
sleeping." By cutting off the head, and filling up
the trench, all danger was removed, and those who
had been attacked were gradually restored to their
strength and faculties.
.280 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
CHAPTER XXI..
.JUGGLING.
F'ea.ts of Jugglers formerly attributed to witchcraft-Extract from
Ady'e Candle in the Dark-Anglo-Snxon Olecmen-Nonnan
Jugglers or Tregetours-Chaucer's Descrip~ion of the Wonders
performed by them-Means probably employed by them-
Recipe for making the Appearance of a Flood-Jugglers fashion-
able in the Reign of Charles H.-Evelyn's Account of a Firc-
eater-Katterfelto-Superiority of Asiatic and Egyrtian pre-
tenders to magical Skill-Mandeville's AClCount of Juggling at
the Court of the Great Khan-Extraordinary Feats witnessed
by the Emperor Jehanguire-Ibn Batuta's Aceount of Hin-
dustanec Jugglers...:Account of a Bramin who sat upon the Air
-Egyptian Juggle~Mr. Lane's Account of the Performance
of one of them-Another fails in satisfying Captain Scott.
TnE mountebanks who now exhibit on the tra-
Yelling stage or cart, and whose buffoonery pleases
only the clown, were fonnerly thought to practise
witchcraft, or deal with some unlawful powers. One
Thomas Ady censures them severely, in a book which
he published in the year 1656, called" A Candle in
the Dark, against Witches and Witchcraft." In this
book he says, " The craft of juggling, to them that are
not acquainted with it, breeds great admiration in the
beholders, and seemeth to silly people to be miracu-
lous, and yet, being known, is but deceit and roguery;
so that the beholder cannot but blush and be ashamed
to think he was so easily cozened, and did ,so much
admire a ridiculous imposture. I will speak of one
more excelling in the· craft than others, that went
about in King James his time, who called himself the
King's most excellent Hocus Pocus, bet>.ause that, at
the playing of every trick,· he used to say, ' hocus
pocus tout us talOJ1tus vade celeriter jubeo,' a dark
composure of words, to blind the eyes ofthe beholders;
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 281
to make every trick pass the more currently, without
discovery ; becau~, when the eye and ear are both
earnestly busied, the trick is not so easily discovered,
nor the imposture discerned. The going about of
this fellow was very useful," continues Mr. Ady, " to
the wise, to see how the people among the heathen
were deceived in times and places of ignorance ; as
Pharaoh and his servants were imposed upon by
magicians, and the Samaritans by Simon the sorcerer,
' to whom all gave heed.' "
But, however disparagingly Mr. Ady may speak of
the art of juggling, it is impossible to deny that many
of the professors of it have been men of great clever-
ness. Even the commonest of the tricks to which he
alludes continued for ages to ·amuse and astonish the
people. The trick of throwing several balis and knives
into the air, and regularly catching and returning
them, i11 as old as the time of our Anglo-Saxon ances-
tors. In Strutt's Sports and Pastimes of the People
of England, there i11 a representation of "a gleeman,"
or merry-maker, keeping up and catching three knives
and three balls.
But the joculators, jugglours, or tregato~rs, of the
Normans, were men of much higher pretensions than
the gleemen. Some of the delusions which they
practised could not have been performed without con-
siderable scientific knowledge. We have the authority
of Chaucer for the fact, that they " cheated the eyes
with blear illusion," in a manner which may excuse
ignorant spectaton for having attributed the effect to
supernatural means. " In a large hall they will," says
he, " produce water with boats rowed up and down
upon it. Sometimes they will bring in the similitude
of a grim lion, or make flowers spring up in a meadowf'
sometimes they cause a vine to flourish, bearing white
282 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
and red grapes ; or show a castle built with stone, and
when they please they cause the whl.lle to disappear."
He tells us, too, of a " learned clerk, who showed to a
friend forests :filled with wild deer, where he saw an
hundred of them slain, some with hounds and some
with arrows; the hunting being finished, a company
of falconers appeared upon the banks of a fair river,
where the birds pursued the herons and slew them.
He then saw knights jousting upon a plain," and, which
was a more attractive sight, " the resembhince of his
beloved lady dancing, which occasioned him to dance
also." But when " the maister that this magike
wrought thought :fit, he clapped his hands together,
and all was gone in an instante." Another feat, whi<:h
he describes as having himself witnessed, is still more
striking:
·~ There saw I Coil Tregetour,
Upon a table of aycamour,
Play an uncouth thing to tell ;
I aaw him cary a wynde mell
Under a walnotc shale."
It is probable that the deceptive effect was produced
by the magic lantern, and the concave mirror. With
respect to the ·method " to make the appearance of
a flode of water to come into a house," the f<?llowing
recipe has been gravely handed down to us from our
ancestors :-steep a thread in the liquor produced
from snakes' eggs bruised, and hang it up over a bason
~;>f water in the place where .the trick is to be per--
formed. Recipes of this kind were perhaps meant
to mislead those who wished to penetrate the
inyatery. ·
· lri the reign of Charles the Second, jugglers ap-
pear to have been in much repute with the great.
In the " Diary" of Evelyn, under the date of Oct. 8,
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 283
1672, we find tbe following .notice: " I tooke my
leave of my Lady Sunderland ; she made me stay
dinner at Leicester House, and afterwards sent for
Richardson, the famous fire-eater. He melted a
beer-glass, and eat it quite up; then, taking a live
coal on his tongue, he put on it a raw oyster; the coal
was blown on with.bellows, till it tlamed and sparkled
in his mouth, and so remained, till the oyster gasped
and was quite boiled ; then he melted pitch and wax
with Bulphur, which he drank down as it tlamed; I
saw it tlaming in his mouth a good while. He also
took up a thick piece of iron, like an ironing heater,
and, when fiery hot, held it between his teeth, then
in his hand, and threw it about like a stone ; but this,
I believe, he .cared not to hold very long." Lady
Sunderland seemed fond of such exhibitions, as Mr.
Evelyn recou!lts on another occasion, that " dining
with Lady Sunderland, I saw a fellow swallow a knife,
and divers great pebble stones, which could make a
plain rattling one against another ; the knife was in
sheath of horn."
Katterfelto, described by Cowper, as
" With his hair on end, athie own wonden
Wonderiog for hie bread,"
was a compound of conjuror and quack-doctor, and
seems at one time to have enjoyed. a great repute in his
way._ He practised on the people of London, during
the influenza of the year 1782, and added to his nos-
trums the fascination of hocus-pocus. Among other
philosophical apparatus, he employed the services of
some extraordinary black cats, with which he asto-
nished the ignorant, and confounded the vulgar.
He was not so successful out of London ; as he was
::!84 SKETCHES OF HlPOSTURE,
comlllitted, by the MayQr of Shrewsbury, to the com-
mon house of correction, as a vagrant and impostor.
But, though European jugglers have manifested
great skill in the various branches of their art, they
appear to be far exceeded by those of other parts of
the world. Clavigero describes many of the perform-
ances of Mexican professors ; and adds that " the
first Spaniards who were witnesses of these and other
exhibitions -of the Mexicans were so much aitonished
at their agility, that they suspected some supernatural
power assisted them." _
It i~, however, in the Asiatic and African quarters
of the globe that the art of deluding the eye by false
presentments is to be found in its perfection. Sir
John Mandeville gives an account of an exhibition,
which took place before the Great Khan; " And be
it done by craft, or by nicromancy," says he, "I wot
not." That, in an unenlightened age, he" should doubt
whether " nicromancy " :Qad not something to do
with such wonders is not astonishing. " They
make," he tells us, "the appearance of the sun and
the moon in the air ; and then they make the night
so dark, that nothing can be seen; and again they
restore the daylight, and the sun shining brightly.
Then they bring in dances of the fairest damsels of
the world, and the richest arrayed. Afterwards they
ma'ke other damsels to come in, bringing cups of
gold, full of the milk of divers animals, and give
drink to the lords and lad!es; and then they make
·knights joust in arms· full lustily, who rmi together,
and in the· encounter break their spears so rudely,
that the splinters fly all about the hall. They also
bring in a hunting of the hart and of the boar, with
hounds running at them open-mouthed ; and· many
DECEPTION, AND CRF.DULITY. ·21:J5
other things they do by the craft of their enchant-
ments, that are marvellous to see."- '
Mandeville has the reputation, not justly in every
instance, of being such " a measureless liar," that his
evidence in this case may, perhaps, excite incredulity;
but we must hesitate to disbelieve the old traveller,
when we find that similar, or even greater, wonders
are attested by an unexceptionable witness, no less a
personage than Jehanguire, the Emperor of Hin-
dustan. In his Autobiography, that monarch enu-
merates no less than twenty-eight tricks, which were
played by Bengalee jugglers before him and ·his
court, and at which he expresses, as well he might,
the utmost astonishment. One of them, that of
cutting a man in pieces, and then producing him alive
and perfect, resembles a trick which Ibn Batuta saw
long before in China. Another was the putting of
·seeds of curious trees into the earth, -which speedily
grew to the height of two or three feet, and bore (ruit.
This was repeated at Madras, !lOt many years ago,
on the lawn before the Government-house. A mango
stone was put into the ground, which, to all appear-·
ance, rapidly sprung up into a fruit-bearing tree.
Another of the tricks exhibited before the emperor is
equally marvellous : " They produced a· chain fifty
cubits in length, and in my presence threw one end
of it towards the sky, where it remained, as if fastened
to something in the air. A dog was then brought
forward, and, being placed at the lower end of the
chain, immediately ran up, and, reaching the other
end, illlmediately disappeared in the air. In the
same manner, a hog, a panther, a lion, and a tiger,
were alternately sent up the chain, and all equally
disappeared at the upper end of the chain. At last,
they took down the chain and put it into a bag, no .
286 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTOR&,
one ever discerning in what way the different animals
were made to vanish into the air, in the mysterious
manner above described. This, I may venture to
affirm, was beyond measure strange arid surprising."
Ibn Batuta (the celebrated traveller, who has been
called the Mahometan Marco Polo·of the fourteenth
century), to whom a reference has already been made,
narrates delusions of the same kind, of which he was
an eye-witness. He informs us that, when he was
once in the presence of the Emperor of Hindustan,
two Yogees came in, whom the monarch desired to
ahow him what he had never yet seen. They said,
" ' We will.' One of them then assumed the form of
a cube, and arose from the earth, and, in this cubic
shape, he occupied a place in the air over our heads.
I was so much astonished and terrified at this, that I
fainted and fell to the earth. The emperor then or·
dered me some medicine which he had with him, and,
upon taking this, I recovered and sat up ; this cubic
figure still remaining in the air just as it had been.
His companion then took a sandal, belonging to one
· of those who had come out with him, and struck it
upon the ground as if he had been angry. The san-
dal then ascended until it became opposite in situation
with the cube. It then struck it upon the neck, and
the cube gradually descended to the earth, and at
last rested in the place it had left. The emperor
then told me that the man who took the form of a
cube was a disciple to the owner of the sandal. 'And,'
continued he, 'had I not entertained fears for the
safety of thy intellect, I should have ordered him to
show thee greater things than these.' From this,
however, I took a palpitation of the heart, until the
emperor ordered me a medicine, which restored me."
lt is not more than seven years since a Bramin
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 287
died at Madras, who was acCWitomed to perform
apparently the difficult feat of sitting en the air. He
did not exhibit for money, but merely as an act of
courtesy. Forty minutes is said to have been the
longest time that be ever remained in this extraor·
dinary situation ; the usual time seems to have been
about twelve minutt'fl. An eye·witness thus describes
the act and the preparation for it_: "The only appa·
ratus seen is a piece of plank, whiqb, with four pegs,
he forms into a kind of long stool ; upon this, in a
little brass saucer or socket, he places, in a perpendi-
cular position, a hollow bamboo, over which he puts a
kind of crutch, like that of a walking-crutch, covering
that with a piece of common hide ; these materials he
carries with him in a little bag, which is shown to
those who come to see him exhibit. The servants of
the bouse hold a blanket before him, and, when it is
withdrawn, he is discovered poised in the air, about
four feet from the ground, in a sitting attitude, the
outer edge of one hand merely touching the crutch;
the fingers of that hand deliberately counting beads ;
the other hand and arm held up in an erect posture.
The blanket was then held up before him, and they
beard a gurgling noise, like that occasioned by wind
escaping from a bladder or tube, and, when the screen
was withdrawn, he was again standing on terra.firma.
The same man has the power of staying under water
for several hours. He declines to explain how be
does it, merely ~~aying he has been long accustomed to
do so."
The Bramin died without communicating his secret,
and though attempts were made to explain it, none of
them were ~~atisfactory. It was asserted by a native
that it is treated of in the Shasters, and depends upon
the art of fully suppressing the breath, and of cleans-
288 . SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
ing the tubular organs ofthe body, joined to a peculiar
·mode.ofdrawing, retaining, and ejecting the breath-
an explanation which leaves the mystery as dark as
ever.
Egypt, which. more than thirty centuries ag:o,
produced men so confident of their magical skill as to
venture to -emulate the miracles of Moses, still has
pretenders to preternatural powers. The modern
magicians seem by.no means to be a degenerate race.
One of their modes of delusion is " the magic mirror
of ink," and the address with which they manage the
trick is really wonderful, and, indeed, inexplicable.
It is performed by pouring ink into the hand of a boy
not arrived at puberty, an unmarried woman, or a
woman who is "as ladies wish to 'be who love their
lords." The boy is told to look into the ink, and to
sa.y what he sees. Mr. Lane, iu his recent valuable
work on Egypt, has described the operation, and he
declares his utter inability to account for the result.
" A.fter some preliminary ceremonies had been gone
through, the magician," says he, "addressed himself
to me, and asked me if I wished the boy to see any
person who was absent or dead. I named Lord Nel-
son, of whom the boy had evidently never heard; for
it was with much difficulty he pronounced the name,
after several trials. The magician desired the boy to
say to the Sooltan, 'My master salutes thee, and de-
sires thee to bring Lord Nelson : bring him before my
eyes, that I may see him, speedily.' The boy then'said
so; and almost immediately added, ' A messenger is
gone, and has returned, and has brought a man, dressed
in a black• suit of European dothes: the man baR lost
his left arm.' He then paused for a moment or two,
• DaJ·k blue is called, by the modem Egyptians, eswed, which
·properly signifies bklck, and is therefore so_ translated here.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 289
and, looking more intently and more closely into the
ink, he said, • No, he has not lost his left arm, but it is
placed to his breast.' This correction made his de-
scription more striking than it had been without it ;
since Lord Nelson generally had his empty sleeve at-
tached to his coat : but it was the right arm that he
had lost. '\Yithout saying that I suspected the boy
had made a mistake, I asked the magician whether
the objects appeared in the ink as if actually before
the eyes, or as if in a glass, which makes the right
appear left. He answered, that they appeared as in
a mirror: This rendered the bOy's description fault-
less." Mr. Lane adds, "A short time since, after
performing in the usual manner, by means of a boy, 4·
he prepared the magic mirror in the hand of a young
English lady, who, on looking into it for a little while,
said that she saw a broom sweeping the ground with-
out any body holding it, and was so much frightened
that she would look no longer." To make this ap-
pearance understood, it must be mentioned, that the
first thing seen in the mirror is the sweeping of the
ground by a broom. In the case of Lord Nelson,
however, the broom was in the hands of a man. The
boy is said not to have been a confederate of the
magician.
The same experiment was tried, at another time, in
the presence of Captain Scott ; but, in this instance,
the conjuror seems to have been leu of a proficient in
his trade than the one who was employed by Mr.
Lane, and the result was unsatisfactery to the captain.
v
~90 &&ETCHES OF IMP08TVRE,
CHAPTER XXII.
PRODIGIES• .
Hold taken on the pu\)Jie Mind by Predigies-Duteh Boy with
Hebrew Words on the lri1 of each Eye-Boy with the word Na-
poleoJI in the Eye--Child with a Golden Tooth-Speculation•
on the Subject-Superstition respe<:ting changeling Children in
•he Isle of Man-Waldron's Description ofa Changeling-Cases
of extraordinary Sleepers-The Seven Sleepers of Ephesus--
Men suppoted, in the northern Regions, to be frozen during the
Winter, and afterwards thawed into Lite again-Dr. Oliver's Case
ofa Sleeper near Bath-Dr. Cheyne's Account of Colonel Town.
shend's power of volnntarily suspending Animation-Man buried
alive for a Month at Jaisulmer-The Manner of his Burial; and
his Preparation for it.
PRoDIGIES of every kind, moral or physical, have
ever taken hold of the imagination of the public, nor
has the better education of some prevented them
from lending a greedy ear to accounts of such phe-
nomena, and the belief of the vulgar has thus been
sanctioned and strengthened. Many, from interested
speculation, have pretended to undergo most extra-
ordinary privatif)ns, or to be independent of the es-
tablished laws of nature; such impostures met with
a very flattering reception in the earlier part of-the
eighteenth century.
Mr. Evelyn mentions a Dutch boy, eight or nine
years old, who was carried about by his parents as a
show. He had about the iris of one eye the words
Deus meus, and about the other Eloibim, in the
Hebrew..characters. How this was done by artifice
none could imagine, and his parents affirmed he was
born so. Three years before this period, in 1699,
Mr. C. Ellis·wrote to Dr. Edw. Tyson, that be had
seen the Friesland boy, " round the pupils of whose
eyes, they pretend, are naturally engraved the above
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY 291
words. Thill is looked upon as a prodigious miracle
in these partK, but, upon more nice~y surveying it, I
could perceive it was only the iris not circularly
joined, but lashed into fimbrire, which might be
thought to form imaginary letters ; there is some-
thing like D. J. and V., but not a footstep for the
strongest fancy to work out any more. But it was
like to have been of danger to me to have discovered
this trick; for acquainting a gentleman in English of
this cheat, one ofthe mob happened to understand it,
and I was forced to make the best of my way." It
is hardly three years since a lad was exhibited in
London, who is said to have had " Napoleon," in
distinct lettei'J!, written in his eye. · There is little
doubt, if this was really the case, but it was· the re-
sult of artificial, rather than natural, causes.
The eyes are not the only part of the head in which
miraculous appearances have been supposed to be
manifested. In 1593, it was reported that a child of
seven years old, in Silesia, having shed its teeth, a
double too~h had been replaced by one ofgold. This
phenomenon soon brought a number of learned men
mto-the field, to dissertate upon 'the wonder. Hont,
more generally known under his Latinized name of
Horstius, who was a professor of medicine, and really
a man of abilities, wrote in raptures upon the subject.
According to his idea, the production of the tooth was
partly a natural and partly a miraculous event, and
was intended by Heaven to console the Christians
for the perils to which they were exposed from the
Turks. How consolation was to be derived from
such a source, it would not be easy to discover.
Horst was followed by Martin Ruland, another phy-
sician, who published a treatiie called " Nova et om-
ui Memoria omnino inaudita Hist. de Aureo Dente,"
·u 2
292 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
&c. Two years after Ruland had given his tract to the
world, the opinions, which it broached, were contro-
verted by Ingestetems; and were immediately de-
fended, in another dissertation, by Ruland. Lastly,
the pen was taken up by Libavius, an eminent che-
mist and(hysician, the first proposer of the trans-
fusion o blood. Unhappily,. ~~:.11 this labour and
erudition were thrown away. Some one had, at last,
the good sense to institute an inquiry as to the reality
of the miracle; and, to the great ·discomfort of the
literary and non-literary believers, it was discovered
that the tooth was gilt.
Waldron, in his Description of the Isle of Man,
says, " The old story of infants being changed in
their cradles is here in such credit, that mothers are
in continual terror at the thoughts of it. I was pre-
vailed on," says he, " to go and see a child, who, as
they told me, was one of these changelings, and in-
deed I must own I was not a little surprised and
shocked at the sight. Nothing under heaven could
have a more beautiful face ; though between five and
six years old, and seemingly healthy, he "was so far
from being able to walk, that he could not so much
as move a joint; his limbs were vastly long for his
age, but smaller than an infant's of six months; his
complexion perfectly delicate, and he had the finest
hair in the world. He never spoke or cried, ate
scarce any thing, and was very seldom seen to smile;
but if any one called him fairy elf he would frown,
and fix his eyes so earnestly on those who had said
it, as if he would look them through. His mother,
or supposed mother, being poor, frequently went out
a-charing and left home a whole day together; the
neighbours, out of curiosity, have often looked in at
the window to see how he behaved alone, which
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 293
whenever they did, they were sure to find him laugh-
ing and in the utmost delight. This made them
judge that he was not without company, more pleasing
to him than any mortal; and what made this seem
more reasonable was, that if he was left ever so
dirty, the woman, at her return, saw him with a clean
face, and hair combed-with the utmost exactness."
Instances have been often recorded of extraordi-
nary sleepers, which, supposing them to have been
true, have puzzled physiologists to account for. So
many eccentricities in the animal economy have been
proved by a careful investigation to be impostures,
that it is but natural to suppose them all to have
been feigned, to accomplish some particular purpose.
The popular tale of the Seven Sleepers has had a
most extended circulation, IUld, as a divine revelation,
was extensively believed among the Mahometans.
When thl! emperor Decius persecuted the Christians,
seven noble youths of Ephesus coucealed themselvt'ff
in a spacious cavern, the entrance to which the tyrant
ordered should be firmly secured with a pile of stones.
They immediately fell into a deep slumber, which
\fas miraculously prolonged, without injuring the
powers of life, during a period of one hundred" and
eighty-seven years. After this slumber, as they
thought, of a few hours, they were pressed by the
calls of hunger, and it was resolved that Jamblichul),
one of them, should secretly return to the· city for
bread. The !Jouth could hardly recognise his native
city, and, to his surprise, a large cross was triumph-
antly erected over the principal gate of Ephesus.
His singular dress und obsolete language confounded
the baker, to whom he offered an ancient medal of
Decius, as the current coin of the empire. Taken
294 SKETCHES OJ! IMPOSTURE,
up on· suspicion, he found that two centuries· had
nearly elapsed, since his escape from the tyrant. The
bishop of Ephesus, the clergy, and others, hastened
to visit the cave of the seven sleepers, who bestowed
their benediction, and peaceably expired.
Arguing from analogy, it was supposed that the
inhabitants of the colder regions hybernated, as cer-
tain smaller animals are known to do. Baron Her-
berstein, in his Commentaries on Russian History,
asserts, that there are in the northern parts of Mus-
covy, near the river Oby, on the borders of Tartary,
a people he calls Leucomori, who sleep from the
27th day of November till the .23rd of April, like
tortoises, under ground, and then come to life again,
though quite frozen all the winter. This gentleman
was a creditable sort of person, and twice ambassador
in Russia, from Ferdinand the emperor. It is mos'
likely, however, that, in points of this natu'i"e he was
contented to rely on the reports of others.
Dr. Oliver has given to the world '' a relation of
am extraordinary sleeping person, at Finsbury, near
Bath ;" the truth of which qe seemed not to doub•.
Samuel Chilton, in May, 1694, fell into a profound
sleep, out of which no art could rouse him, till after
a month's time : during this time, food B11d drink
were put before him, which always disappeared,though
no one ever saw him eat or drink.
Two years afterwards, he slept seventeen weeks,
and in the following year for five months, with only
one intermission for a few minutes. It does not
appear, from the relation, that there was r(>88on to
suapect any imposture; yet it was rather remarkable
that the stimulus of hunger should have induced him,
though asleep, So ea.t ancl drink whatever was pus
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 295
before him, and yet the most powerful stimuli applied
in other forms should have made no impression upon
him.
This protracted sleep, strange as it is, does not,
however, appear so wonderful as the power of volun-
tarily suspending animation, and returning to life,
after a considerable time has elapsed. A remarkable
case of this kind is recorded by the celebrated Doctor
Cheyne, in his " English Malady." The patient was
a Colonel Townshend, " a man of great honour and
integrity," who had long been suffering under aa
acute nephritic disorder, attended with constant
vomitings, which made life a burden to him. Early
one morning, he sent for his two phy~icians, Dr•
Cheyne and Dr. Baynard ; they went, accompanied
by Mr. 'Skrine, his apothecary, and found his ~ensea
clear, and his mind perfectly collected. He had, be
said, sent for them that they might give him "some
account of an odd sensation which he had for some
time observed and felt in himself, which was, that
composing himaelf, he could die or expire when he
pleased, and yet, by an effort, or somehow, he could
come to life again, which (says Cheyne) it seems he
ha•l sometimes tried before he had sent for us."
The physicians were naturally surprised at this
communication, and reluctant to believe a fact which
was seemingly so improbable. Yet they hesitated to
allow of bia making the experiment before them, lest;
in his debilitated state, he might. carry it too far. He,
however, insisted so strongly on their seeing the trial
made, that they at last consented. " We all three,"
says Cheyne, " felt his pulse first ; it was distinct,
though small and thready ; and his heart had its
usual beating. He composed himself on his back,
and lBJ in a still position some ti.lile; while Jheld hjs
296 SKETCHES OF JMPOilTURE,
right hand, Dr. Baynard laid his hand on his heart,
and Mr. Skrine held a clean looking-glass to hil!l
mouth. I found his pulse sink gradually, till at last
I could not feel any by the most exact and nice touch.
Dr. Baynard could not find the least motion in his
heart, nor Mr. Skrine the least soil of breath on the
bright mirror which he held to his month ; then each
of us by turns examined his arm, heart, and breath,
but could not, by the nicest scnttiny, discover the ·
least symptom of life in him. We reasoned a long
• time about.this odd appearance as well as we could,
and all of us judging it inexplicable and unaccount-
able, we began to conclude that be had indeed carried
the experiment too far, and at last were satisfied
he was actually dead, and were just ready to leave
him. This continuE>d about half an hour, by nine
o'clock in the morning, in autumn. As we were
going away we observed some motion about .the body,
and, upon examination, found his pulse and the
motion of his heart gradually returning: he began
to breathe gently, and speak softly; we were all asto-
nished to the last degree of astonishment at this
unexpected change, and after some farther conversa-
tion with him, and among ourselves, went away fully
satisfied as to all the particulars of this fact, bot
confounded and puzzled, and not able to form any
rational scheme that might account for it. He after-
wards called for his attorney, added a codicil to }lis
will, settled legacies on his servants, received the
sacrament, and calmly and composedly expired about
aix o'clock that evening."
A case of voluntary death and resuscitation, still
more remarkable, because the individual by whom
the act was performed was buried alive, and remained
for a month ·in his tomb, has recently occurred in
l>ECEPTION, AND CREl>ULITY. 297
India. The fact appears to be authenticated by un-
exceptionable evidence. The account is given in a
letter, by Lieutenant A. H. Boileau, an officer of
engineers, who is employed on the extensive trigo-'
nometrical survey of India. " I have (says he) just
witnessed a singular circumstance, of which I had
heard during our stay at this place, but said nothing
about it before, the time for its accomplishment not
being completed. This morning, however, the full
month was over, and a man who had been buried all
that time, on the bank of a tank nt'ar our camp, was
dug out alive, in the presence of Esur-Lal, one of
the ministers of the Muhar-wull of Jaisulmer, on
whose account this singular individuatl was voluntarily
interred a month ago. .
" The man is said, by long practice, to have ac-
quired the art of holding his breath by shutting the
mouth, and stopping the interior opening of the nos-
trils with his tongue ; he also abstains from solid food
for some days previous to his interment, so that he
may not be inconvenienced by the contents of his
stomach, while put up in his narrow grave ; and,
moreover, he it1 sown up in a bag of cloth, and the
cell is lined with masonry and floored with cloth,
that the white ants and otht'r insects may not easily
be able to molest him. The place in which he was
buried at J-aisulmer is a small building about twelve
feet by eight, built of stone ; and in the floor was a
bole about three feet long, two and a half feet wide,
and the same depth, or perhaps a yard deep, in which
he was placed in a sitting posture, sewed up in his
shroud, with his feet turned inwards towards the
stomach, and his hands also pointed inwards towards
the chest. Two heavy slabs of stone, five or six feet
lonr, several inches thick, and broad enourh to cover
298 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
the mouth of the grave, so that be could not escape,
were then placed over him, and I believe a little
earth was plastered over the whole, so aa to make the
surface of t.he gravesmooth and compact. The door of
the house was also built up, and people placed out-
side, that no tricks might he played nor deception
practised. At the expiration of a full month, that is
to say, this morning, the walling of the door was
broken, and the buried man dug out of the grave;
Trevelyan's moonshee only running there in time to
Sl'e the ripping open of the hag in which the man had
been enclosed. He was taken out· in a perfectly
senseless state, his eyes cloRed, his hands cramped and
powerless, his stomach shrunk very much, and his
teeth jammed so' fast together, that they were forced
to open his mouth with an iron instrument to pour a
little water down his throat. He gradually recovered
his senses and the use of his limbs; and when we
went to see him was sitting up, supported by two
men, and conversed with us in a low, _gentle tone of
voice, saying that ' we might bury him again for a
twelvemonth, if we pleased.'"
That his powers of abstinence are great, there can
he no doubt ; as Cornet Macnaghten once suspended
him for thirteen days, shut up .in a wooden box.
During the time that he is buried, his hair ceases to
grow. Previously to his being buried he lives en-
tirely upon milk, regulating the quantity in such a
manner as to be just sufficient for sustaining life.
After his release, and on his first taking food, he is
said to feel some anxiety, till be has ascertained that
the faculties of his stomach and bowels are not
injured.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 299
CHAPTJl:R XXIII.
BOTANICAL BVPIUUT1TION8 .lXD DELUBIONB.
Botanical Abaurditioa numerous-Shepherds study the Nature of
Plants-The Doctrine of Signatures deocrihed-Suppoaed Qua.
lities ofPlants, according to that Doctrin-Maidenhair, Quincea,
Balm, Woodsorrel, Walnut-The Shamrock an Emblem of
the Trinity-Method of gathering and digging up Plants-
Veneration in which the Misletoe was beld-Fem.seed rendered
the Bearer invisible-The Enchanter's Nightshade-The Man-
drake-Mode of obtaining it-The Mandrake mentioned in
Genesia-Pliny'a Mention of it-The Root counterfeited by
mesne ofthe Briony Root-Ita soporific Virtues-The Tartarian
Lamb, or ~arometz, deacribed;.....Poetical Deacriptions of it by
De Ia Croix and Darwin-Holy Tree-Early-budding Oakt
in the New Forest-Glastonbury Tborn-Miraculous Walnut
Tree at Glastonbury-Early, Blackthorn at Quainton-Tbe
Groaning Tree at Badesly-Hazel used for the Divining Rod-
Vindication of the Belief in the Divining Rod-Various Super-
stitions reapeeting Treea and Plants-The Peridexion~
THERE is, perhaps, no branch of natural history,
that has been more fruitful in superstitious fears and
observances, or that has longer been an object of
attention to the inquiring eye of philosophy, than
botany ; add in times of ignorance this science har-
vested a full crop of absurdities. Much good as well
as much evil has been attributed, in all ages, and by
all nation11, to the supernatural agency suppoMed to
reside in certain roots or plants. As the Arabians
living in the desert, from the uninterrupted view of
the heavens, became great proficients in astronomy,
and, by the eternal and unvjlrying celestial compass,
traversed the pathless sands, so, in like manner,
shepherds, the earliest inhabitants of most countries,
employed the leisure of a pastoral life, in studying
the natures and properties of plants ; and, doubtless,
300 SKETCHES OJ' UIPOSTURB, .
often amused themselves in filling up t.he outline of
their botanical systems with the help of imagination.
Thus the doctrine of signatures was invented, with-
out any sufficient reason, but that it pleased them to
imagine that a fancied resemblance in the shape of the
root, leaf, or fruit of any plant, to any particular part
of the human body, must indicate its possessing some
beneficial or hurtful power, over such corresponding
part. For example, a decoction of maidenhair was
thought good to wash the head, and to make the hair
grow ; a similar preparation of quinces, which are a
downy hairy fruit, was also accounted good for re-
producing hair that had fallen ofT. Macassar oil and
bears' grease now usurp their place among modem
beaux, with perhaps as much claim to efficacy.
Balm, and wood-sorrel, representing the heart in
figure, were, as a natural consequence, cardiacal; but
the walnut was a most perfect type, bearing the signa-
ture of the whole head ; the outward green cortex
answering to the pericranium, the harder shell within
representing the skull, and the kernel in its figure
like to the lobes of the brain ; and, therefore, clearly,
good for mental diseases. " Thus," says Mr. Hey-
don, in his Rosicrusian Physics, " did Divine Pro-
vidence, by natural hieroglyphics, read lectures to the
rude wit of vulgar man, and the disciples of the
seraphically illuminated fraternity of Rosicrusian
Christians, being sufficiently illuminated from these,
found out the rest."
The shamrock, or trefoil, which was used by the
Druids to cure diseases, and is the national badge of
the Irish, acquired the latter distinction by its having
been made an emblem of the Trinity, by St. Patrick.
When the Pagan Irish were unable to understand the
doctrine of three Gods in one, be plucked a trefoil,
DECEPTION, AND CRBDULITY, 301
and asked them, " Is it not as possible for the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, to grow upon one stalk, as it
is for these leaves to do so ?" The argument was
deemed conclusive by his hearers.
Each plant or root required a different method of
gathering or digging up, and if the prescribed method
was not religiously adhered to, both in hourand season,
its virtue would be sure to fail at the greatest need.
The Druids held the oak in extreme veneration,
and most particularly the misletoe, which was to be
cut with a golden knife, to be gathered when the
moon .was six days old ; the priest clothed in white;
the portion cut off was to be received on a white
napkin ; and, lastly, two white bulls were to be sacri-
ficed; and thus solemnly consecrated, the misletoe
was an antidote to poison, and prevented sterility.
Fern-seed was thought to have the power of con-
ferring im•isibility; in allusion to which power, one
asks in an old play " Had you Gyges' ring, or the
herb that gives invisibility?" and in Ben Jonson's
"New Inn"-
------Ihad
No medicine, Sir, to get invisiblu;
No fern-seed in my pocket," ·
The ancients, who ofte~ paid more attention to
preconceived opinions than to the evidence of their
senses, believed that the fern bore no seed ; our an-
cestors gained one step, and believed it bore seed,
which was invisible ; hence, from an extraordinary
mode of reasoning, founded on the aforesaid doctrine
of signatures, it was thought that they who possessed
the secret of wearing this seed about them would
become invisible. Fern-seed was said to possess great
magical powers, but it must be gathered, on Mid-
302 SKETCHES OP IMPOSTURE,
summer's Eve. One who went tQ gather it reported,
that the spirits whisked by his ears, and sometimes
atru~Jk his bat, and different parts of the body, awl at
length, thinking be had got a sufficient quantity of it,
be secured it in papers and a box, but when he came
home be found all empty.
At the period when the belief in witchcraft was a
matter of faith, there was scarcely any plant but had
some share in its mysteries, especially where its habitat
at all corresponded with the baneful effects attributed
to it. Thus the Circll!'a, or Enchanter's Nightshade,
which was celebrated for the purpose of raising the
devil, grew among the mouldering bones and decayed
coffins in ruinous vaults.
But beyond all in power was the mandrake ; this
root was fabled to grow under a gallows or place of
execution, and arose from the fatty matter dropping
from the body of the dead, which gave it the shape of
A man; a fable somewhat similar to that of the ser-
pent's teeth sowed by Cadmus. It is affirmed, by old
authors, that mandrakes do make a noise, or give ~
great shriek, upon being pulled out of the earth,
" Where the sad mandrake growa,
Whose groans are deathful."
Thus there was great hazard of life to them that
pulled up this root. Pliny saith, "When they in-
tended to take up the root of this plant, they took the
wind thereof, and with a sword describing three circles
about it, they digged it up, looking towards the west."
Another more cautious authority directs, that he
who would take it up, in common prudence should tie
a dog to it, to accomplish his purpose, as, if he did it
himself, he would shortly die. What promoted these
.strange conceptions might be the tradition, that this
DECEPTION, AND "9REDULITY. 81}3
root was of great use to Circe, who, by the magic of
simples, wrought so many wonders.
The mention made of mandrakes in the thirtieth
chapter of Genesis, has proved the source of much
discussion; though it is quite evident that some other
species of plant was spoken of, ~s being a thing much
prized. St. Augustine, who has commented on this
passage, says, " It was a great curiosity to behold, as
it was vetj beautiful to the eye ;" but" wondered why
Rachael should set so high a value upon it, unless for
its scarceness.
Pliny says, that Pythagoras composed a book on
the magical virtues of plants, and first called the man-
. drake anthropomorphous, or man-shaped ; this gave
rise to the common practice of imposing on the igno-
rant by cutting the roots of briony into such a form.
"There are many," says Mr. Martyn, ''in several
parts of Europe, who carry about and sell roots to
ignorant people, which handsomely make out the
shape of a man or woman ; but these are not the pro-
duction of nature, but contrivances of art, a11 divers
have noted, and Matthiolus plainly detected and ex-
posed. He learned this way of trickery from a va-
gabond cheater under his care; his words are, ·' that
is vain and fabulous which ignorant people and simple
women belie,·e, for the roots which are carried about
by impostors, to deceive unfruitfl.\) women, are made
of the roots of briony, and other plants ; for in these,
yet fresh and virent, they carve out the figures of men
and women, first sticking therein the grains of barley
or millet, where they intend the hair should grow ;
then bury them in sand until the grains shoot fort4
their roots, which at the longest will happen in twenty
days ; afterwards they clip and trim those tender
304 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
strings in the fashion of beard, and other hairy tegu-
ments*.' " Though much out of repute, even in
Martyn's time, he says, "I have had them very
gravely offered me for sale."
Another virtue of this root was the power of pro-
curing sleep. Cleopatra thus asks for it,-
" Give me to drink mandragora:
Charmitm. Why, Madam?
Cuopat. That I _may sleep out this great gap of time my
Antony is away."
And Iago, having basely deceived Othello, with a ma-
lignant joy, adds,-
" Not poppy nor mandragora,
Nor all the drowsy syn1ps of the world,
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet aleep
Which thou ow'dst yesterday.ft
The plant which in its natural form more faithfully
represents an animal is the Scythian or Tartarian
Lamb, or Barometz, in the language of the country ;
and, as it grows, it might, at a short.distance, be taken
fur an animal rather than a vegetable production. It
is one of the genus Polypodium: root decumbent,
thick clothed with a very soft close wool, of a deep
yellow colour, stipes from one foot and a halfin length,
appearing above the ground. It is well koown to be
a root which, from the variety of its shape, is easily
macle to take the form of a lamb, which the Tartars
call Barometz. In China it is known by the name of
Rufous Dog. Towards one end of the root, it ~-
• There is AD admirable specimen of this species of impoeture,
lltill to be seen, the property of a gentleman, who was applied to for
permialrion to have it copied, but he refused his consent.
\
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 305
.quently becomes narrower, and then thicker; so as to
give the resemblance of head and neck, and has·some-
times two pendulous hanging excrescences, resembling
ears; .at the other end is a short root, resembling a
~. '
Mr. Bell, in his "Journey to lspahan," thus des·
cribes a specimen be saw: " It seemed to be made by
art to imitate a lamb. It is said to eat up and .devour
all the grass and·weeds within its reach. Though it
may be thought that an opinion so very absurd c6uld
never find credit with people of the meanest under;.
standing, yet I have conversed with some who were
much inclined to believe it ; so very prevalent is the
prodigious and absurd with some part of mankind.
Among the more sensible and experienced Tartars, I
found they laughed at it~~ J.i<!iculous fable.'' . Lou•
X
800 'SKETCHES OF 'IMPOSTURE,
·reiro affinns that the fresh root when cut yields a
·tenaeious gum, like the blood of animals, and is
·uaed:as a styptie to stop the bleeding of wounds.
De Ia Croix, in his " Connubia Florum," gives the
following classical description of it :-
Surgit bumo Baromes. Pneeeba in ttipite fruotne,
Stat quadrupes. Olli Vellua. Duo Cornua fronte
Lanea, nee desunt oculi ; rudb IICCOia tredit
Esse animal, dormire die, ''Vigilare per·umbram,
Et circum exesis pasci radicitbs berbis
Camibus ambrosim, sapor est succiquo rtihentes
Post ba'-t quibus aliena suum Burgundim nectar,
·Atque loco, referro pedem, natura dedi-t,
Balatu si posset, opem implon.re Yoraeia
Ora lupi contra.. credu In 1tirpe sederil
·.kgnum equidem, grogibuequo agnorum albeseere collca.
Dr. ·banrin, in:his "'Loves of the Plants,'' with poetic
licence, adopting'the -fable says-
" E'en round tbll pole the flamea llf' love aspire,
And icy bosom• feel the ncred fire :
Cradled in snow, and fan11ed by arctic ·air,
'Shi11es, gentle Baromee, .thy golden hair ;
Rooted in earth, each cloY&n boor dneends,
And round and round her flexile neck ~he bende,
Crops the gray coral moaa;Blld hoary thyme,
Or laps with rosy .tougue the melting rime,
Eyes with mute tendemeu her diatant dam,
Or -m• to bleat, a Vegetable Lamb."
The rare ·but occasional oeourl'ellce of vegetation
·in certain trees and shrubs, happening to take plae~
'about ·the period of our Saviour's birth, inducechhe
wpentitioos peasant to believe, that such trees threw
out their leaves with a holy joy, to commemorate
that anniversary ; as in like manner oxen and lltagB
'Were supposed,-and had b~en ·•em, ·to kneel down at
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITV. 307
midnight on Christmas Eve, in bumble adoration.
Sbakspetll'e has beautifully described this tradition,
when the Ghost in Hamlet disappears at the crowing
af the cock:
''It faded on the crowing of the eoek.•
Some say, that enr 'gainat that oeaaon comes
Wherein our Saviour's birth is eel~rated,
The bird« dawni11g eingetlo. all uigbt long:
And then, they say, no apirit dares stir abroad:
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
No fairy takes; no witch hath power to charm ;
So h.Uowed, aDd eo gracious ia the t.hu.
An oak of the early-budding species has, for two
centuries, enjoyed a fame for pious gratitude, for it
was considered a matter of fact with many, that it
sbot forth its leaves on every Old C_hristmas-day, and
that no leaf was to be aeen before, or even after, that
day during winter. A lady, in 1786, curious to
.prove the truth of this assertion, proceeded to Ca-
denham, in the New Forest, where the oak grew. On
the third of January, the usual guide was. ready to
attend her ; and on being desired to climb the oak,
and search whether there were any leaves, he said,
it would be to no purpose, but if she came o~ the
Wednesday following she might see a thousand. lie
was prevailed on, however; to climb up, and on the
first branch he reached, there appeared several new
leaves, fresh sprouted from the buds, nearly half lin
inch long. The g-uide was more astonished than the
lady at this premature production, for so strong was
his belief in the truth of the whole tradition, that he
• The sudden departure of gbosta from the earth at that period
of tho momiog ia a matter of aoeient belief. Philoatrat.ua, giving an
oeeouot of the apparition of Achillea' shade to Apolloniua Tyaoeuo,
•ya, that it vanished with a little glimmer as 10011 as the cock
erowed.
x2
308 !;KETCHES OF IMl'OSTURE, '
would have pledged his life, that not a single leaf
was to be seen _before the usual hour; but, no leaves
were to be found ajte1·ivarda, because it was stripped
by the numerous parties that were accustomed to
visit it on Old Christmas-day. It is a curious fact
in botany, that such a pudding should take place
about that season in this, as well as some other trees.
There appears to be another early-sprouting oak,
near the spot where Rufus's monument stands. This
seems to authenticate the account Camden gives of
the ~c.ene. of that prince's death ; for he speaks of the ·
premature vegetation of the- v~ry tree on which the
arrow of Tyrrell first glanced, and the present tree
may be·a descendant of that one. ·
On Christmas eve, 1753, a vast concourse of peo-
ple attended the noted thorn at Glastonbury, which
was thought to have similar impulses with the New
Forest oak; but, to their'great disappointment, tliere
·was no appearance of its blowing, which made them
watch it ndrrowly on the 5th of January, Old Christ-
mas day, when it blew as usual. This famous Glas-
tonbury hawthorn was said to be sprung from the
staff of Joseph of Arimathea, who having fixed it
in the ground with his own hand on Christmas day,
the staff took roqt immediately, put forth leaves, and
the next day was covered with milk-white blossoms·,
and that it continued to blow every Christmas day
during a series of years.
Besides the Holy Thorn, there was likewise, at
Glastonbury, another miraculous tree. This was a
walnut tree; which was said never to shoot forth its
leaves before the 11th of June, the feast of St. Bar-
nabas. It has long ceased to exist; but while it was
11tanding it was held in high respect by the credulous;
· At Qtip.inton, in B~cks, also, above two "thousanq
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 309
persons on one occasion went with lanterns and
candles to view a blackthorn in that neighbourhood;.
which was remembered to he a alip from thl\t of
Glastonbury.
· Mr. Gilpin relates a curious story of the groaning-
tree at Badesly. About the middle ofthe last century,
says he, a cottager who lived in tho middle of the
Tillage of Badet~ly, two miles from Lymington, fre-
quently heard a strange noise behind his bouse, like
a person in extreme agony. Soon after, it caught
\he atteation of his wife, ·a timorous woman; by
degrees the neighbours heard it, and it was noised
abroad through all the country. It was then plainly
discovered to proceed from an elm, which grew at
the end of the garden; it wai young and vigorous,
and to all appearance perfectly sound. All persons
flocked to bear it, and it attracted the notice of the ·
Prince and Princess of Wales, who then resided at
Pilewell, the Beat of Sir J. Worsley, for the advan·
tages of sea-bathing; many causes were assigned, but
noM appeared equal to the explanation of it. For
about twenty months it was an object of astonish-
ment, and a pamphlet was drawn up descriptive of it•.
. It was made also the groundwork of a political
squib, reflecting on the ministry of that time, in:
which it was said, the tree _had heeri heard to groan*
articulately, "0 Walp- 0 Walp-- it is thou
that makest not only me, but the whole nation to
• A gro:ming-board wu exl.ibited to tile public in 1682; the
advertisement reopecting it ran thus : " At the sign of the Wool-
oack, in Newgate-market, ia to be seen a strange and wonderful
tbiJlg, which ia, an t~lm board; being touched with a bot iron, it
does expren itself, ae if it were a man dying, with groans and
trembling, to the great admiration of all bearers. It bath been
presented before the king and b,ie nobles, and bath given great
aatjefaction."
310 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOS'rllRE,
groan:' The owner of the tree at last making too.
1'88h an experimeni; to discoyer the cause of ita.
aufferings, bored a hole in the trunk; after this ope··
ration it ceased to groan ; it was then rooted up;·bn~
nothing appeared to account for it, and it was gene-
rally believed that there was no trick in it, but. that
it was the result of natimll causes.
The hazel has been much celebrated for its power&
of discernment ; a twig of which formed the divining
rod for the discovery of mines. An old author on.
divination describes it as "a strange kind of explo-
ration, and peculiar way of rhabdomancy, used: in.
mineral diacoveries. The method of proceeding iS.
to take a forked hazel, commonly called Mo&ell his
rod, which freely held forth, will stir and play if any
mine be under it ; and though many have attempted;
w make it good, yet, until better information, we. are
of opinion with Agricola, that in itself it is a fruitless
exploration, strongly scenting of _
pagan divination.''
It was used also to discover any h1dden spring of
water, and, though one may seem as incredible a& the
other, there haye not been wanting persons who ha'fe:
lately given evidence in favour of this property, aadi
of that respectability as at least to suspend a judg-
ment upon so extraordinary a phenomenon. In. the
twenty-second volume of the Quarterly Review w.ill
be fuund the following well aiithenticated history :--
"It is just fifty years smce Lady N.'s attentioa waa.
first called to this subject; she was then sixteen years
old, and was on a vis1t, with her family, at a chateau
io Provence, the owner of which wanted to find a
_spring to supply his house, and for that purpose had
sent for a peasant, who could do so with a twig. Th~
English party ridiculed the idea, but still agreed to
accompany the man1 who, after walking- some way,
D~BP~ION, 4Ni>. CRJSDl1LI1'Y. 3ll
prcmounce:d that he had arrived at the object of bia
aearcb, and they accordingly dug and found him cor..
~ He was quite. an uneducated man, and could
give no account of the faculty in him, or of the.
means wliich be employed; but many others, be said,
could do the same. The English party.now tried.
for themselves, but all.in vain, till it came to the
turn of Lady N., when, to her amazement and alarm,
abe. found that the same faculty was in bet as. in the.
peasant, and on her. return to. England she often.
exerted it, though in studious concealment; she was
afraid lest she should· be r.idioul!ld, or get the name.
of a witch : in either case she thought she should:
never get a husband.
"Of late years her scruples began to wear away•.
When, in 1803, Dr. Hutton published Ozanan's Ma,..
tbematicalRecreationli, where the effee~ ofthedivining~
rod ia treat-ed a& absunl, she wrot.e a long letter, signed:
X. Y. Z., stating the facts which she knew. At.
Dr. Hutton'11• particular request, she went to see him
at Woolwich, and she then showed him.the experi-
meat, .and discovered.a spring in.a field which be bad
lately bought near the New College, then building,
which field he afterward11 sold to the College for a
larger sum, in consequence of the spring. Lady N.
afterwards showed the experiment to others in the
park at W. She took a thin forked hazel twig, about
sixteen.inches long. and held it by the end, thejoint
pointing dow~twards. ; when abe came.to a place. where
water was under the ground, the twig immediately
bent, and the motion was more or less rapid a& she.
approached or withdr.ew from the spring ; when jus~
over it, the twig turned. so quick as to snap, breaking
near her finger&; which, by preuing it, were indented,
312 .£KETCHES OF IMFOSTURE,
hP.ated, and almost blistered. A degree of agitation
was also visible in her face.
· " When she first made the experiment, she says,
this agitation was great, but has gral\ually decreased.
She repeated the trial several times in differimt parts
of the Park, and her indications were always correct.
· " It is extraordinary that no effect is produced
at a well or ditch, or where earth does not interpose
between the twig and the water; the exercise of the
faculty is independJ!nt of volition."
The reviewer concludes by saying, "So far our·
narrator; in whom, we repeat, implicit" confidence
may be placed." · ·
It would be an endless task to attempt to give an
account of the various· superstitions which are at-
tached to trees and plants. A glance at a few may
suffice to give an idea of the whole. In some parts
it is firmly believed that weak, rickety, or ruptured
children may be cured by drawing them through a split
tree,ifthe tree be afterwards so bound as to reunite;. in
other parts a remedy for the hooping cough is found
in passinga child thrice before breakfast under:ablack-
berry bush, of which both· ends grow into the soil.
Onions were formerly, and perhaps are now, used by
rustic girls, to divine the name of the man whom
they are to marry. Various names were formed upon
onions, which were then placed jn the chimney
corner, and the onion which sprouted first bore the
sought-for name. The plant mouse-ear, given in any
manner to horses, was believed to prevent them from
beinghurt in shoeing; mugwort put into a'm11n's shoes-
kept him from being weary on a long journey ;
moon-ear would open locks and bolts, and undo the·
shackles and shoes from hor_ses' feet, a qt~ality which.
DE"EPTION, AND CREDULITY. 313
must have rendered it very valuable to burglars and
horse-stealers ; and houseleek would shield from
lightning any house in which it grew ; this privilege
of being thunder-proof, it shared with the classical·
bay-tree. The mountain ash, rowan tree, or, as it is
called in the northern counties, the wiggen tree, was
of sovereign virtue as a preservative against the
machinations of witchcraft.
· Similar follies are to be observed iu all countries.
Here is a specimen from the East:-" There is·a
tree in India called peridexion, whose. fruit is sw~et
and useful, so that doves also delight to tarry in it;.
and the serpent fears this tree, . so that he avoids·
the shadow of it ; for if the shadow of the tree-
go towards the east,the serpentflies towards the west;
and if the shadow of the tree reach towards the we8t,
the serpent flies towards the east ; and the serpent•
cannot hurt the doves, because of the virtue of the•
tree ; but if any of them straggle from the tree, the-
serpent, by its. breath, att)'acts it and devours it.:
Yet when they fly or go together, neither the serpent·
nor the spar-hawk can, or dares, hurt them. There~
fore, the leaves or bark of the tree, suffnmigated,
Bvert all evil that is of venomous beasts." This,
thou&h a fiction, is at least a poetical one. ·
314 SK.ETOH;B!I OJ' IMPOSTURE,
CH..t\.PTER XXIV.
Tim DllLil810N8 01' 4LCBBIIY.
-OriRin of Alchemy-Al'gUment for Tranamu~tion-Golden Age of'
Alchemy-Alchemiata in.the 13thcentury-Medals metaphori-
cally described-Jargon of Dr. De&-The Green Lio~
B,acon-Invention of Gunpowder-Imprisonment of Alchemie&a
-Edict of Henry VI.-Pope John XXII.-Pope Sixtus V.-
Alchemy applied to Medicine-Paracelsue--Rvelyn's hesitation
about.Alcilemy-Narrative ofHelvetin0--Philadept on Alchemy
-'Roeieruciane--A Vision--Haydon's description ofRosicrucians
-Dr. Price-Mr. Woulfe-Mr. Kellerman.
THE aubject of Alchemy occupies so large a space
in the humiliating histpry of the misapplication of
talent, as to justify a particular enquiry into the
cause11 of its origin, the grounds of its success, and
the reason of ita gradual decline. So much myst,i-
oism and fondness for ambiguity exist in the writings
of the hermetic philosophers, as they were called,
that it will not be surprising to find accounts of the
origin of the science wrapped in equally extraordinary
language.
To begin with Adam: he is said to have foreseen
t_he deluge, and, for the purpose of providing against
t)lat catastrophe, to have erected two tables of stone,
which contQ.in.ed the foundatiou ofthis wisdom. One
of them, after the dood, was found on Mount Ararat.
Alchemy has as frequently been called the hermetic
art, as it is more generally supposed to have been
invented by Hermes, King of Egypt, and master of
this science, when Egypt was the garden of God.
According to chronologers, his rera was before that of
Moses. This was the true philosopher's stone, which
so enriched that kingdom, and by means of which all
the arts flourished; _hut in quest of which so many
person& of all nations and ages have since fruitlessly ·
D.E.CEPTION1 ANJ) C.RBDU.Ll'XY. 315
consumed both their fortunes and liTes. Unlike their
baffied successors, the Egyptiana increased their
wealth to that immense degree, that they studied
means how to expend theH- exuberant stores in the
erection of pyramids, obeliaks, colossuses, monu·
ments, pensile gardens, cities, and the labyrinth, and
in forming the immense lake. Mmris, and the like
stupendous works, which cost. so many millions of
talents. "All these (say the believers in the. science}
are sufficient arguments of their skill in. alchemy,.
whence they received so vast a supply of riches;
for, since no authors mention any gold mines. in the
time of Osiris, or Hermes, whence could they have
acquired such exceeding great wealth, but. from the
chemical art of transmuting· metals ?."
The Egyptian priests, unde.r a promise of secrecy,
communicated the knowledge they possessed to the
Alexandrian Greeks. The actual possession of much.
lucrative k~owledge, and the reputation of still more.
valuable secrets, would attract the notice of the cre-
dulous and ignorant. With many the extent. of the
science was confined to the. ~:efining of metals, a,nd:
preparations o£ chemioal corn.pounda ; but the theo-
J1etical alchemist having in view a certain mysterious·
and unattainable object, despised the occupation of..
tho mere chemist, and from policy, Ol' want of c}j!ar
ideas on the subject, the language of his art became:
more and more obscure. Knaves and impo11tors crept
in, and, by impositions on the unwary and credulous,
indemnified themselves for the ill success of their
experiments.
Those chemists, who assum.ed the pompous title of
alchemists, were persuaded that all metals were no
othel' than nature's rude unfinished essays towards
the m~ing of gold ; which, by means of due coction
316 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
in the bowels of the earth, advanced gradually to-
wards maturity, till at last they were perfected into
that beautiful metal, Their endeavours, therefore,
were to finish what nature had begun, by procuring
for the -imperfect metals this much desired coc-·
tion; and upon this grand principle all their pro-
ce&8es were dependent.
· The golden age of alchemy commenced, properly
speaking, with the conquests of Arabian fanaticism
in Asia and Africa, about the time of the destruction
of the Alexandrian Library, and the subjection of
Europe to the basest superstition. The Saracens.
Hvely, subtile, and credulous, intimate with the fables
of talismans and celestial influences, admitted, with
eager faith, the wonders of alchemy. The rage of
making gold spread through the whole Mahometan
world ; and in the splendid courts of Almansor and
Haroun Al Raschid, the professors of the hermetic
art found patronage, disciples, and emolument.
About the thirteenth century, Albertus Magnus,
Roger Bacon, and Raymond Lully, appeared as the
revivers of this science, which had been nearly
lost in the interval from the tenth century ; their
writings again raised alchemy to a very high degre&
of credit, and their adventures as well as those of
their disciples partake more ofthe character of orien-
tal romance than the results of philosophic study.
The most celebrated of the alchemic philo!.lophers
were not only the companions of princes, but many
of them were even kings themselvesf who chose this
royal road to wealth and magnificence.
. No delusion in the world ever excited so exten-
8ive and long-continut>d an interest, or rather it
might be called madness ; though it now seems won-
derful how the fallacy Qf it should have escaped de-
....
DECEPT10N0 ANI> CREJ>ULITY. 317
tection during a period, of seven or eight hundred
years, when so n1any causes for suspicion and dia.
appointment must have occurred amongst its profes-
sors; but the fond idea seems to have been strength-
ened by this want of success, which was attributed
to any cause rather than the proper one.
, An alchemist, in. his writings, complains of the
difficulties attending the search after the Immortal
Dissolvent, as the grand agent in ~he operations was
sometimes catled; and very feelingly asserts, that the
principal one is the want of subsistence or money, as
without a supply of the latter to buy glasses, build
furnaces, etc., the operations cannot go on. ,
The several metals werE! described metaphorically,
as planets, animal~, &r., and mystical allusions were
made to the sacred Scriptures, in confirmation of the
truth of the science, by the most forced interpreta-
tions of certain passages: as for instance-" He
struck the lltone and water poured out, and he poured
oil out of the flinty rock ;" and the whole composi-
tion 6f the philosopher's .stone was thought to be
contained in the four' verses, beginning, " He
stretched forth the heavens as a curtain, tbe waters
&tood above the mountains."
The descriptions ofthe several necessary processes
partook of such figurative language, as none but the
adepts could possibly understand. Dr. Dee, in the
fulness of his wisdom, thus instructs his disciples:
•• The contemplative order of the Rosie-cross have
presented to the world angels, spirits, plants, and
metals, with the times in aatromancy and geomancy
to prepare and unite them telesmatically. This is
the substance which at present jn our study is the
child_of the sun and moon; placed between two firei1
318 SK&TCilES fJP •'lMl'OSTUltB,
.and in the darkest night recehres a light 'from the
stars and ·retains it. 'l'hilangels and i1K4tlligenoes
·are attrACted by a horrible emptinetlll,.and '&twmlthe
-astrolasms for ever. He bath in him a thick nre, by
which he eaptiv.\1!18 ·the ·thin genii. That you may
know the .Rosicrusian pbilosopby, endeavour ·to
know God himself, the worker of all thi~gs ; now I
will demonstrate in wlM; thing, ·of what thing, and
by what thing, is the medi~ine or:multiplier of metals
·to be made. It is even in the nature, of the naturt>,
and by·the nature, of me&als; fur-it is a principle of
all philosophy that Nature caimot be bettered lnit in
her own nature. Common gold and silver are dead,
.ana e:xcl!pt they be renewed by art, that is, except
their seeds, which are naturally included in them, be
·projected into their natural eal'th, by which means
·they are mortified and revived, like WI the grain of
wheat that is dead." This is somewhat worse than
what Mr. Burke denominated a gipsy jargon.
The powder of transmutation, the gNnd means of
·pr~ection, was to be got at by the following proCfllls, ·
·in which it was typified as the Green Lion : " In the
-Green Lion's bed the sun and •moon are horn, they
are married, and beget a king.; the king feeds on the
lion's blood, which is·the :king's father and mother,
who are, at the same time, his brother and sister.
·I fear I betray the secret, ·Which I promised my
master to coneeal in dark 'speech from every one
who does -not know how to rule the philosopher'II
lire." One would imagine, in·the present day, t~
there was ver.y littl-e fear of being accused of too
rashly divulging the important secret by such expla-
nations. Our anc.estors must have ·bad a much
greater talent than we lmve for finding out enigmaa,
Jili:C:&PTION, A'WD mBJ)ULlTY. 319
if they were able to elicit a meaning from tlleanuys·
tical, or rather nonsensical, sentences. '
Roger Bacon was the firllt English alchemist. He
was born in 12l4. Popular belief attributed to him
·the contrivance of a machine to·rise in the air, and
convey a chariot more speedily than by horses; and
also the art ofputting statues in motion, and drawing
articulate sounds from brazen heads. From this it
appears, that he had made considerable progress in
the formation of automata. There can be no doubt
that he discovered the mode of making gunpowder ;
in his works the secret may be found, veiled under an
anagram. The discovery has, however, on doubtful
authority, been ascribed to Berthold Schwartz, a
German Benedictine friar, who lived about the middle
of the fourteenth century. In an old print, the merit
of the invention is ascribed to the devil, who is re-
presented as prompting the friar's operationi, an~
enjoying their succeae.
320 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
• Can we be surprised, that in an age of ignorance,
the wonderful doings of Bacon obtained for him tbe
.name of a magician, and the friars of his own order
refused to admit his works into their library, as
though he was a man who ought to be proscribed by
society ? His persecution increased till 1278, when he
was imprisoned, and obliged to own that he repente.l
of the pains he had taken in the arts and sciences:;
and he was at last; constrained to abandon the house
of his order.
The credulity and avarice of princes often caused
them to arrest al!;hemists, and, by means of the tor-
ture, endeavour to force them to multiply gold, or
furnish the powder of projection, that it might he
ready for use at any time; but it was generally fo.und
that, like poetical composition, perfect freedom Qf
thought and action were necessary to so desirable
an end.
There is an edict of Henry VI. king of England;
in letters patent to lords, nobles, doctors, professors,
.and priests, to engag·e them in the pursuit of the
philosopher's stone, especially the priests, who having
power (says the pious king) to convert bread and
wine into the body and blood of Christ, may well
convert an impure into a perfect metal. ·
Even Pope John XXII., the father of the church,
was weak enough to become an adept ; he worked ·at
the practice of hermetic philosophy in Avignon, and
at his death were found eighteen millions of florins in
gold, and seven millions in jewels and sacred vases.
Notwithstanding his writing a treatise on alchemy,
and making transmutations, yet 11uch was the mis-
chief arising in his times from the knavery of pre-
tended alchemists, that he issued a bull, condemning
1111 traders in this science as impostors. ·
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 321
Pope Sixtus V. had a true idea of the real value
of this science; for, when one presented to him a
book on alchemy, his holiness gave the author an
empty purse, emblematic of the vanity of the study.
In the fifteenth century this science was applied to
medical uses, and the preparations of mercury, anti-
mony, and other metalsi were used with the happiest
success. The unexpected success which attended
the first exhibition of chemical preparations awakened
a new hope in the minds of the alchemists, which
was no less than the discovery of a universal medi-
cine, an elixir vita~, for conferring immortality and
perpetual youth and health. Paracel11us and Van
Helmont entertained these vis~onary speculations;
and the hopes of possessing a universal solvent long
haunted the imaginations of writers on chemistry.
Paracelsus was born in 1494 ;.he practised physic
in Basle,· and the following circumstance induced
him to leave it. A canon was in extreme sickness,
and the physicians forsook him, as incurable: Para-
celsus saw him, and promised to restore him to
health. The canon expressed himself gratefully, as
one who would feel the obligation, and make him a
suitable recompense. Two pills performed the cure;
which was no sooner effected, than the canon un·der-
valued it, and contended against the claim of the doc-
tor: he had been C'fn•ed too aoon. The magistrates
were applied to, and they awarded Paracelsus a very
moderate tee, proportioned to his short attendance ;
so, in disgust, he quitted the city, and declared that
he would leave the inhabitants of Basle to the eternal
destruction which they deserved. He then retired
to Strasburg, and thence into Hungary.-where he
took to drinking; be died in great poverty, at SaltJII..
burg, i{l1541. Oporinus, who served him as his pupil,
y
822 8K&TCHE8 OJ' lMPOITUllE,
aaid, be often uw him in great want borrowing money
of carmen and porters, and the next day he would
repay them double from a fund that could not be dia-
covered. His propername was, Philip AureolusThea.
phrastus Paracelsus Bombastus, of Hohenheim ; and
hia dieciplee add, " Prince of Phy11iciana, Philosopher
of Fire, the Trismegiatus of Switzerland, Reformer
of Alchemiatical Philosophy, Nature's faithful Secre-
tary, Master of the Elix1r of Life, and Philosopher's
Stone, Great Monarch of Chemical Secrets."
The ingenious Mr. Evelyn, both a sensible and
learned man, seems to have been unwilling to deny
the truth of what bad so often been asserted to him ;
in his entertaining " Diary," he eaya, " June 4tb,
1705, the season very dry and hot; I went to see
Dr. Dickenson, the famous chymist ; we had a long
conversation about the philosopher's elixir, which he
believed attainable, and himself bad seen it performed,
by one who went under the name of Mundanus, who
sometimes came among the adepts, but was unknown
as to his country or abode. The doctor hu written
a treatite in Latin, full of astonishing relatione ; he
is a very learned man, formerly of St. John's, Oxford,
where lie practi11ed physic."
Being in Paris, Mr. Evelyn visited Marc Antonio,
an ingenious enameller, who told him two or three
stories of men who had the great arcanum, and who
had successfully made projection before him several
times. " This," says Evelyn, who obviously hesi-
tated between doubt and belief, " Antonio asaerted
with great ohtestation; nor know I what to think of
it, there are so many impostors, and peo~le who
love to tell strange stories, as this artist d1d; who
had been a great rover, and spake ten different lan-
guages."
1'>BCI!:I'TlO:tot, Am> ()REDULITY. 323
The ·most· celebrated history of transmutation is
that given by Helvetius, in his " Brief.of the GQlden
(',elf." It is thus given by Mr. Brande. " The 27th
day of December, 1666, came a stranger to my house
at the Hague, in a plebeick habit, of honest gravity
and serious authority, of a mean stature, and a little
long face, black hair not atall curled, a beardless chin1
and about forty-four years of age, arid born iil North
, ·Holland. After salutation, he beseeched me, with
great reverence, to pardon his rude access, for he
was a lover of the pyrotechnian art, and having read
my treatise against the sympathetic powder of Sir
Kenelm Digby, and observed my doubt about the
philosophic mystery, induced him to ask me if I
really was a disbeliever as to the existence of an uni-
versal medicine, which would cure·all diseases, unless
the principal parts were perished,or the predestinated
time ofdeath come. I replied, I never met with an
adept, or saw such a medicine,though I had fervently
prayed for it. Then I said, ' Surely, you are a learned
physician.' ' No,' said he, 'I am a brass-founder,
and a lover of chemistry.' He then took from his
bosom-pouch a neat ivory box, and out of it three
ponderous lumps of stone, each about the bigness of
a walnut. I greedily saw and handled this most
noble substance, the value of which might be some-
where about twenty tons of gold ; and having drawn
from the owner many rare secrets of its admirable
effects, I returned him this treasure of treasures with
a most sorrowful mind, humbly beseeching him to .
bestow a fragment ofit upon me, in perpPtnal memory
of him, though but the size of a coriander seed.
'No,. no,' said he, 'that is not lawful, though thou
wouldest give me as many golden ducats as would fill
this room ; for it would have particular consequences,
Y2
324 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTUB.B, ·
and if fire could be burned of fire, I would at this
instant rather cast it into the fiercest flames.' ·He
then asked if I had a private chamber, whose pro-
spect was from the public street ; so I presently con-
ducted him to my best furnished room ·backwards,
which he entered, (says Helvetius, in the true epirit
of, Dutch cleanliness,) without wiping his shoes,
which were full of snow and dirt. I now expected
he would bestow some great secret upon me, but in
vain. He asked for a piece of gold, and opening his
doublet, showed me five pieces of that precious metal,
which he wore upon a green riband, and which very
much excelled mine in flexibility and colour, each
being the size of a small trencher. I now earnestly
again craved a crumb of the stone, and at last, out of
his philosophical commiseration, he gave me a morsel
as large as a rape-seed, but I said, •This scanty por-
tion will scarcely transmute four grains of lead.'
• Then,' said he, •deliver it me back ;' which I did,
in hopes of a greater parcel; bllt he cutting off half
with his nail, said, ' Even this is sufficient for thee.'
' Sir,' said I, with a dejected countenance, • what
means this?' And he said,' Even that will transmute
halfan ounce of lead.' So I gave him great thanks,
and said, ' I would try it, and reveal it to no one:
He then took his leave, and said he would call agaia
next morning at nine. I then confessed, that while
the mass of his medicine was in my hand the day
before, I had secretly scraped off a bit with my nail,
which I projected in lead, but it caused no transmu-
tation, for the whole flew away in fumes. • Friend,
said he, •thou art ~oredexterous in committing theft,
than in applying medicine. Had'st thou wrapped up
thy stolen prey in yellow wax, it would have pene-
trated, and transmuted the lead into gold.' I then
DECitl'TION, ANt> CRl:lDULlTY. $~5
asked,·if the philosophic work cost much, or required
long time, for philosophers say, that nine or ten
months are required for it. He answered, ' Their
writings are only to be understood by the adepts,
without whom no student can prepare this magistery.
Fling not away, therefore, thy money and goods in
hunting out this art, for thou shalt never find it.'
To which I replied, ' As thy master showed it thee,
so mayest thou, perchance,discover something thereof
to me, who know the rudiments, and therefore it may
be eli.Sier to add to a foundation than begin anew.'
' In this art,' said be, ' it is quite otherwise ; for,
.unless thou knowest the thing from head to heel, thou
canst not break open the.glassy seal of Hermet~. But
enough: to-morrow, at the ninth hour, I will show thee
the manner of projection.' But Elias ne.ver carne
again ; so my wife, who was curious in the art whereof
the worthy man bad discovered, teazed me to make
the experiment with the little spark of bounty the
artist bad left. So I melted half an ounce of lead;
upon which, my wife put in the sa~d medicine; it
hissed and bubbled, and in a quarter of an hour the
mass of lead was transmuted into fine gold, at which
we were exceedingly amazed. I took it to the gold-·
smith, who judged it most excellent, and willingly
offered fifty florins for each ounce."
The accumulated disappointments ofseveral centu-
ries, inthe prosecution ofthis science or discovery, did
not eradicate the belief in its practicability; and, so
late as the year 1698, one, humbly styling himself
Philadept, wrote a book concerning adepts, not.
proving that they did exist, but leaving the onu8
probandi to those who were sceptical on the subject.
Indeed, it was a generally received opinion, in the
seventeenth century, that the philosopher's stone
326 SKE;JCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
did really exist ; and the gravity and sincerity of the
authors who dicoursed of it, prove this. Philadept
says, "It is evidently unreasonable to assert or deny
any thing without reason ; no man can give any
good reason, importing that there is no such thing
as the philosopher's stone. On the contrary, there
are many reasons to believe there is such a thing.
There is a tradition of it in the world : there are
many books on that subject, written by men that
show an extraordinary gravity, sincerity, and fear of
God, and who solemnly and sacredly protest they
have wrought it with their own bands; and, besides,
they have, at several times, shown the effects of it
before divers witnesses, whereof there are too many
instances to reject this proof. Then, they lay down
principles which appear rational to any one that con-
siders them. There have been, also, too many great
cures performed by philosophers, to be reasonably
questioned by them who are acquainted with those
matters. Those that are not, ought not, in reason,
to determine agl'inst it. My intention is not to
dispute about the principles of hermetic philosophy,
they have been established by many authors beyond
dispute, but most clearly and invincibly by the
learned Gasto Claveus of any I know."
Passages in Scripture, as has been stated above,
were often brought forward in corroboration of the
theory of alchemy, and it resulted, in the course of
time, that a religious sect arose, who blended the
mysteries of the Christian religion with the several
processes of alchemy towards the grand regeneration
of metals; a species of allegory understood and to
be interpreted only by the disciples of that order,
known by the name of Rosie Cross ; its symbol being
four red roses arranged in a crucial form. In a hook.
DECEPTION; AND CREDULITY. 327
intitled" The famous celebrated Nuptials ofthe thrice
great Hermes, allegorically describing the mystical
union and communion of Christ with every regenerate
soul, composed by C.R., a German, of the order ofthe
Rosie Cross," and published by him.in 1559, this
victim of mysticism and fanciful romance thus de-
scribes one of his hallucinati0ns :-" On Easter eve
I was in meditation, and being now ready to prepare
in heart, together with my dear Paschal lamb, a small
unleavened undressed cake, all on a sudden ariseth
so horrible a tempest, that I imagined no other but,
that through its mighty force, the hill whereupon my
house was founded, would By in pieces; But, inas-
much as .this and the like, from the devil-who had
done me many a spite-was. no new thing to me, I
took courage and persisted in my meditations till
somebody, after an unusual manner, touched me on
the back, whereupon I was so hugely terrified that I
durst hardly look about me ; yet, I shewed myselfas
chearful as, in the like occurrences, human frailty
would permit. The same thing twitched me several
times; I looked, and beheld a fair and glorious lady,
wlwse garments were all sky-colored, havinga bundle
of letters in all languages in her hands. She selects
a small one and laya it on the table, and, without a
word, departed with so mighty a blast, that for a
quarter of an hour I could not ·hear my own words.
The note was sealed with a curious cross, having this
inscription----;-In hoc •igno + vince.t: within the
note was wr1tten-
This day, This day, thla, thil,
The royal nuptials is;
Art thou thereto by birth inclined,
And unto joy ofGod designed?
828 SJU~TCH.ES 01 l.M'POS'l't1Jtg,
Then may'st thou to the mountain tend,
Whereupon three stately temples stand,
And there see all from end to end ;
Keep watch and ward, thyself regard."
Having prayed for advice how to act, he is in-
str.ucted in a vision what will happen to him ; he then
wakes and prepares for his journey, "putting on a
white gannent, girding his loins with a blood-t:ed
ribbon, bound crosswise over his shoulders, and in his
hat were stuck four red roses, that he might be the
sooner taken notice of by this token among the
throng."
This sect became a secret society; it originated in
Germany, and attracted the attention of all Europe
for twenty-five years. Part of their mystery <'On-
sisted in an almost miraculous method of curing dis-
eases. Some of their pretensions were explained by
one John Hayden, servant of God and &ecretary of
nature, in a book, intitled, " A new method for the
cure of all diseases, freely givl'n to inspired Chris-
tians." In an " Apologue for an Epilogue," he
saith, "I shall here tell you what Rosiecrusiana are,·
and that Moses was their father, and he was the
child of God. Some say they were of the order of
Elias, some of Ezechiel, others define them to be
the officers of the generalissimo of the world ; that
are as the eyes and ears of the great king, seeing
and hearing all things, for they are seraphically illu-
minated as Moses was, according to this order of the
elements, earth refined to water, water to air, air to
fire." Such is the gibberish which could once not
only find readers, but even dupes to follow in the
train of the writers. ·
In later times there have been a few believers in
.bECEi'1'toN, AND c!REDULt'rY. 329
transmutation. In the year 1782, Dr. Price, of
Guildford, by means of a white and red powder, pro-
fessed to convert mercury into silver and gold ; and
he is said to have convinced many disbelievers of the
possibility of such a change. His experiments were
repeated seven times before learned and intelligent
persons, who themselves furnished all the materials
except the powders, which were to operate the trans-
mutation. These powders were in very small quan-
tity. By whateyer means it may have been accom-
plished, it is certain that gold and silver were pro•
duced. But, admitting that, with respect to its pro-
duction, Price was an impostor, it is indubitable that
he must have been in possession of one valuable
secret, that of fixing mercury, so as not to evaporate
in a red heat. Price published an account of these
experiments, but stated that he had expended the
whole of his powder, and that he could not obtain
more, except by a tedious process, which had already
injured his health, and which, therefore, be would
not repeat. He died in the following year, and his
death was attributed to his having swallowed laurel-
water, in order to evade further scrutiny and the
detection of his imposture. The fact of his having
poisoned himself is at least doubtful.
Another true believer in the mysteries of this art;
says Mr. Brande, was Peter Woulfe. He occupied
chambers in Barnard's Inn, when be resided in Lon-
don. Hia rooms, which were extensive, wet•e so
filled with furnac~s and apparatus, that it was difficult
to reach his fireside. A gentlPman once put down
his hat, and never could find it again, such was the
confusion of boxes, packages, and parcels, that lay
about the chamber. Woulfe bad long vainly searched
for the elixir, and attributed his repeated failures to
330 SKETCHES Ol!' IMPOSTURE, ·
the want of due preparation by pious and charitable
acts. Some of his apparatus is said to have been
extant since his death, upon which are supplications
for success, and for the welfare of the adepts. He
bad an heroic remedy for illness ; when he felt him-
self seriously indisposed, he took a place in the
Edinburg·h mail, and, having reached that city, im-
mediately came b~k in the returning coach to Lon-
don. He died in 1805.
The last of the English alchemists seems to have
been a gentleman of the name of Kellerman, who,
as lately as 1828, was living at Lilley, a village
between Luton and HitcLin. He was a singular
character, who shunned all society, carried six loaded
pistols in his pockets, barricaded his house, and filled
his grounds with spring-guns. The interior of his
dilapidated mansion was a complete chaos. He pre-
tended to have di~covered the universal solvent, the
art of fixing mercury, and the powder of projection.
With the last of these he had, he said, made gold,
and could make as much as he pleased. He kept
eight men for the purpose of superintending his cru-
cibles, two at a time being employed, who were
relieved every six hours. He had one characteristic
ofa disturbed intellect, that of believing that all the
world was in a confederacy against him, and th.~&t
there was a conspiracy to assassinate him.
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 33~
CHAPTER XXV•
.ASTROLOGY.
Suppose<\ Origin of AstroJogy_.:.Butlcr on the Transmission of.
Astrological Knowledge-Remarks 011 Astrology by Hetvey-
Petrarch'e Opinion ofAatrology-Catherlne of Medicia-Caating
of Nativities in England-Moore'• Almanack-Writere for and
against Astrology-Horoscopo of Prince Fr.ederick of Denmark
-Astrologers contributed sometimes to realize their own Pre-
dictions-Caracalla-Mr. Turner-Woman who foretold, from
a Portrait, tho time when the Original would die-Stiff the
Fortune Teller and his Fooli9h Pupil&-Expulsion of the Cho-
lera from Jeypore-Cingalete AstrologicallDstructions.
AsTROLOGY h$s been divided into natural and
judiciary, or judicial; but it is only the latter division
which will come under present consideration, and itw
definition has been said to he the art of foretelling
future events, from the aspects,positions, and influences
of the heavenly bodies.
The idea that they should have any influence, direct
or indirect, on our actions in this nether world, or
that they obliged us to the performance of any act,
however extraordinary, may have been originally sup-
posed, by those who were familiar with the figurative
language of the Prophets, to receive confirmation
from the facts, and the style of the predictions, re-
corded in sacred history. They would find, for in-
stance, that the Star iu the East was foretold, which
·at its coming was to announce peace and goodwill
towards men ; and the later and more solemn reve-
lations, concerning the final consummation of all
things, typified that awful event by signal appearances
in the heavens.
Traditionary knowledge of these events and pre-
dictions, coupled with ignorance of the causes of me-
teorological phenomena, now better understood, might
3fJ2 SKETCHES OP ll\IP09TURi,
easily lead the timid and superstitious to forebode
evil, from the disastrous twilight of the eclipse, or to
impute a favouring influence to the rising of certain
stars at particular seasons. The universal custom of
traversing the deserts, or navigating ships across the
pathless ocean, by the observation of the stars, pre-
viously to the discovery of the compass, led the im-
aginative to conceive, that the moral path of life was
equally to be regulated by astral indications. It must
be owned, too, that it was not unnatural for simple
unreasoning minds thus to connect the glorious sun,
the moon, when walking in brightness, queen of heA-
ven •, and the host of stars, with the destinies of
man.
Fear, it is said, first deified the ancient heroes. It
was a storm and an eclipse that first consecrated Ro-
mulus; nor had Jupiter himself been ma8ter of heaven,
or worshipped on earth, if the terrors of his thunders
had not advanced the conceit of his divinity. It is
quite certain that, by degrees, a system was formed,
which took hold of the imaginations of all classes of
• The queen of heaven is a more poetical Idea than the man in
the moon ; though it must be confessed, in indulgence to the po•
pular opinion, the appearances on the surface of the moon do not
unaptly suggest such an outline. In Ceylon, however, they place
a hare instead of a man in the moon ; and thus very satisfactorily
account for thie drcumetance :-" Buddha, their deity, when a
hermh on earth, !oat himself in a wood, when be met a hare, who
showed him the way ; Buddha thanked the animal, and added,
' l'tlr. Hare, I am both hungry and poor, and cannot reward you.'
• If you are hung~:y,' replied the hare, 'I am at your service; make
a fire, kill, and roaat me.' Buddha made the fire, and the hare
instantly jumped into it, but Buddha caught hold of it, and
flung it into the moon, where it still remains." A French gentle.
man, returned lately from Ceylon, says, "The Cingalese would
often beg permission to look at the bare through my telescope, and
would exclaim in raptures that they saw it.''
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 333
persons ; and the truth ofsuch a doctrine, and its de-
cisions, it was heretical to doubt. J. Butler, one of
the devout believers in astrology, far from thinking it
aremnant of Pagan superstition, calls it a divine sci~
ence. He pretended~ with many others, " that Adam,
after his fall, communicated it out of his memories of
the state of innocency, to Seth. He in his turn made
impressions of the same in certain per,manent pillars,
able to withstand fire and water, by wltich means the
science passed to Enoch and Noah. Shem was in-
·structed by his father, and communicated his know-
ledge to Abraham, who carried it into Chaldea and
Egypt. Moses, " skilled in all the learning of the
Egyptians, was also thought to have been an able
astrologer."
. Thus was the vanity of the more modern professors
of the art encouraged, and they maintained that the
heavens were one great volume, wherein God had
written the history of the world ; and, of course, it
was to be understood, that the astrologers were the
high-priests, who alone could expound its mysterious
pages.
The author of the " Conteml'lations on the Starry
Heavens" has, with great propriety, made the follow-
ing remarks on this science:...:_" The pretenders to
judicial astrology talk of I know not what mysterious
efficar.y, in the different aspects of the stars~ or the
various conjunction and opposition of the planets.
Let those who are unacquainted with the sure word
of revelation give ear to these sons of delusion and
dealers in deceit. For my own part, it is a question
of indifference to me, whether the constellations·shone
with smiles, or lowered in frowns, on the hour of my
nativity. Can these bodies advertise me of future
events, which are unconscious of their own existence?"
334 SKETCHES O:t' IMPOSTURB,
In the time of Petrarch, though utrologers had
great credit, that learned man only laughed at their
pretensions. Of one of them, in particular, he says,
" The astrologer was older and wiser than I was ; I
loved him, and should have been still more attached
to him if he had not been an astrologer. I sometimes
joked, and sometimes reproached him, about his pro-
fession. One day, when I had been sharper than
usual with him, he replied, with a sigh, • Friend, you
are in the right; I think as you do, but I have a wife
and children.' This answer touched me so much,
that I never spoke to him again on that subject."
Queen Catherine of Medicis, though a woman of
strong mind, was deluded with the more ignorant, by
the vanity of astrological judgments; the professors of
the science were so much consulted in her court, that
the most inconsiderable act was not to be done without
an appeal to the stars.
In England, William Lilly, John Gadbury, and
others, set up for prophets; and nativities were cast
for all who could afford to pay for the privilege of
searching into futurity. It was but natural that the
inquirers should have to reward such intelligence in
proportion to the distance it was brought, or its flat-
tering nature ; events, however, soon proved it to be
far-fetched and nothing worth. .
The volumes of tiresome absurdity, written on this
subject, about the beginning and middle of the seven-
teenth century, would exceed present belief; and
nothing but a thorough though unaccountable con-
viction, in their readers, that they ~poke the language
of truth, could have ever made the perusal of them
tolerable.
Moore's "Prophetic Almanack," with its astrolo-
gical p1·edictions and "hiero~lyphic for the year," is
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 335
the only legacy left to us of this species of composition
and imposition. It would be beneath the dignity of
such a philosopher to be guilty of a pun ; though the
more irreverent of his readers might naturally have
suspected him of such an intention, when, a few years
since, he prophesied that, " Towards the close of the
year Tu1·ke9 will be much embroiled."
Some writers, in the more fortunate era of astro-
logy, ventured to impugn the truth of the doctrine,
and to ridicule its professors, particularly in the per-
sons of Lilly and Gadbury, who retorted with acri-
monious and arrogant vulgarity. Further curiosity
on this subject may be gratified, by turning to such
works as " Supernatural Sights and Apparitions, seen
in London by William Lilly ;" or the reply to it,
'' Black Monday turned White, or a Whip at Star-
gazers."
One of the opposers of this science argued, natu-
rally enough, that God had assigned the star11 their
scite and course, which no power of man or angel was
able to alter; but man's fancy had built us imaginary
houses in the heavens, to which were attached such
qualifications, affections, &c. as the framers pleased.
These houses were twelve in number; in one or
other of which, according to the hour and season of
the person's birth, did he take his position, as pointed
out in the horoscope. An outline of a general horo-
scope is annexed, and, in explanation of it, Mr. Wil-
liam Lilly is pleased to say, "When I speak of the
tenth house, I intend somewhat of kings or persons
represented by that house, which is also called me-
dium calli, the mid-heaven ; when mention is made of
. the first house, ascendant or horoscope, I intend the
commonalty in general. Die et eris mihi magnus
Apollo."
336 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
~an of a ~otostopt.
-
II 10
Prlea.d• In pneral.
Emperor-.
Prince~. Geaenltl.
Clerl(ymen.
Lona J'ourne:r~o
Religion.
Whioporlq.
1i Great Cattle. Death.
lnherJt.aace.
I
•
THE BIGNIPICATION OP
THE TWELVE HOUSES OP
HEAVEN, IN AN ANNUAL
REVOLUTION, BY WHICH
EVERY ONE 18 DIRECTED
TO THE KEY OP THE
BOOK.
4
Wan.
LawiUlta.
Sulton.
6
Servu&e.
Small Cattl•·
Slckn-.
Mr. Gadbury, also, in the nativity cast for the illus-
trious Prince Frederic of Denmark, informs us, that
"It is an aphorism nearly as old as astrology itself,
that if the lord of the ascendant of a revolution be
essentially well placed, it declares the -native to be
8
7
a
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 337
pleasant, healthful, and of a sound constitution of
body, and rich in quiet of mind all that year; and that
he shall be free from cares, perturbations, and trou-
bles.-The nativity of Frederick Prince of Denmark,
astrologically performed by John Gadbury, 1660."
It often happened, with regard to the responses
given by the oracles, that they in some measure cor-
responded with- the subsequent events; in like man-
ner did the astrological casters of nativities seem to
have their presumptuous pretensions verified by after
circumstances. Caracalla lost his life by seeking to
preserve it from supposed treachery; for, while in
Mesopotamia, being jealous of a plot against him, he
sent to the Roman astrologers for the particulars of
it. They accused Macrinus, his faithful prefect, of a
conspiracy, which nothing but his death could frus-
trate.. This answer coming while the emperor was
intent on some sport, he gave it to Macrinu!l to read ;
who, finding his innocent life in danger by this trick
of the astrologers, secured it by the murder of Ca-
racaUa, of which, even in thought, he had before been
innocent; though the result proved the apparent truth
-of the prediction of the astrologers.
Mr. Gadbury might be considered partly incidental
to the death of a Mr. Turner, of Winchington, about
the year 1700. It is thus recorded by John Cole-
batch :-" I shall presume to take notice of a thing
that happened, which was a kind of preludium to Mr.
Turner's death, and, for aught I know, the thoughts
of it might deject his spirits, and have a fatal influence
upon him. About April last, Mr. Gadbury came to
him and told him, that he would die in the country
during the summer, of a surfeit of drinking. He re-
ceived this intelligence with a smile, and replied, 'I
die of drinking, who am the soberest man in England:
z
338 "ETCHES 01' IMPOSTUU:,
that's impossible I' Some time afterwards,. be went
to Winchington. Just as be was going, one of his
friends bid him remember what Mr. Gadbury bad
said, and beware of drinking. As soon as he was
taken ill, remembering, I suppose, Mr. Gadbury's
words, be told his BOD be should not recover. Mr.
Turner had sat down to drink, but nothing extraol"-
~nary, twq days previouslY. to his Qeing taken ill, with
.other gentlemen, and bad related what had passed
be"tween Mr. Gadbury and himself; and that it is
true, I can produce several persons of undoubted
reputation to testify." Whether Mr. Turner died
from a preposse;ssion of the truth of Mr. Gadbury's
prediction, or from. a disease calculated to destroy
life, there is no other document to prove; at aU events,
it shows the general belief and impression, at that
period, in favour of such prophetic sagacity.
Mr. William ;Lilly, who encouraged t.he prevailing
credulity by absurd fictions, relates, with great apparent
good faith, how a poor woman had the singular git\ Qf
foretelling the death of any one. from the bare in-
spection of their portraits. Such renown had she,
that, about the year 1615, King James, when at
Hampton Court, sent for this poor woman, to a hoase
in one of the Moulseys. There were provided pur-
posely the pictures of King James, Queen Ann, Pals-
grave and bis lady, the Duke of Richmond, and
Marquis Hamilton.
The poor woman no sooner entered the room, and
had performed her homely compliments, but she
looked seriously on every picture, and, with great
silence, took down the portrait of Queen Ann, and
laid it gently under the table, making signs with her
fingers the number of years she should live, and so of
King James, the duke, and the marquis. Not one
DECBPTIOW, AND CBBDULI'l'Y. 339
of t:boee exeeeded the Bumber of years limited by her,
but died precisely at the time. She then took the
Palsgrave. and hi!! Lady, threw them on the ground,
aod with her •tick did nothing but beat the pictures,
and at last tore them in pieces. A young man
coming into t.he room, and calling her a witch, she
muttered, and aignilied. he should be hanged in two
years and a half; and so he was for coining of silver.
The latest account extant, of an astrologer prac-
tising his prof!liSion with success, is io be found in
the reports at Uni~ Hall, June 21, 1832, when an
application was made at that office for a warrsnt
against a Mr. Stiif, far famed for casting nativities
With the greatest accuracy. The· applicant for the
w.arnmt said he had a valuable book stolen from him,
and, tO' find out the thief,. he went to Mr. Stift', who,
after some apparent study; exclaimed, "I have it! "
and described with admirsble minuteness the feature&,
figure, and dres&, of a female, to whom the applicant
was paying his addresses, adding, that the. person
whom he so described was the thief. This descrip-
tion so agreed with that of the young lady he at one
time loved sincerely, that, from the day he first con-
eulted Mr. Stift', he had bFQken oft' all acquaintance
with her. Indeed, he was so convinced that she was
the thief, upon hearing Mr. Stift' pronounce the fact,
that he discarded her from that moment, not feeling
inclined to proceed against her. The magistrates
could scarcely refrain from loud laughter at the cre-
dulity evinced by this simpleton's visit to the wise
man. . It was not in consequence of the loss of his
book, or his mistress, that the present complaint was
made; but because he had given Mr. Stiff ten pounds,
to teach him the art of astrology, which sum he
z2
340 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
wished to recover, becsuse in the end he found him-
self as ignorant as ever.
In many parts of the world, particularly in the
East, alltrology still reigns with undiminished sway.
Among the Hi!]dus, it exercises a powerful influence
upon all their actions. No affair of consequence Js
undertaken without the astrologer being consulted.
When, about tl'n years ago, the cholera raged at Jey-
pore,theastrologers hit upon the followingcuriousmode
of ejecting it from the city. They and the singers
attended, and the state band commenced playing. ·
A Bramin lighted a row of lamps, and selected four
goats. After killing two of them at two of the gates,
and a third at the burying-ground, he lighted a wisp
of straw, ran with it to another gate, and killed there
the fourth goat. He next drew in a brass pot some
\\·ater from a sacred well, muttered a charm over it,
and sprinkled a portion on the walls, from which si-
multaneously issued Jour snakes (no doubt pre-
viously secreted there), and fled towards the west.
'When they were gone, the Bramin declared that they
were the spirits of pestilence, in the form of serpents,
that they were now expelled, and that, to prevent their
return, the people must repair, on a certain day, to
the temple of Hanuman.
That astrology is not less prevalent in Ceylon than
on the Indian continent is manifest from the following
curious directions for storing grain, and celebrating a
festival. " In the 1746th year of the glorious mra
of Saka, being the present year, designated Taaruna,
appropriate to the sun, and belonging to the first
division, over which Brahma presides, of the cycle of
sixty years, the commencing year of which is deno-
minated Prebhava, on the twelfth day of the sun in
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 341
Capricorn, month of Nawan Mase, third day of the
increasing moon, Saturday. At the completion of
.the fifteenth hour of the morning*, at the propitious
moment when the ·prevailing constellation shall be
Seeva; Wase, and the sign of Arise, and the hour
influenced by Lunies. Viewing the month (at this
propitious moment), it will be good, and conducive of
a happy res\llt, to depollit the new corn and rice in
the Royalty Gabadawe, which is comparable to the
'all desires-fulfilliug tree,' the Kalpa Warksha, in
order to induce plenitude of grain and of riches
therein.
"On the fourteenth day of the sun in Capricorn
above mentioned, on the fifth day of the increasing
moon, Monday, tat the completion of three quarters
of the first hour of the night, the propitious moment
when the prevailing constellation shall be Uttrapo-
tupe, and the sign Capricorn, and the hours under
the denomination of the sun, viewing the north-east
(at the propitious moment), in order to induce ex-
emption from sickness, and constant prosperity to
his excellency the eminent governor of the three
divisions of Ceylon, and who is comparable to the
mighty ro~l lion, the vanquisher of all his foes, it
will be good to · enjoy the five nectareous viands
with the first produced grain-Success I Prosperity!
Health!"
It will be seen, from this specimen, that ·the
Cingalese astrologers are by no means behind their
.European brethren in the use of an unintelligible
jargon ; and that they are as determined flatterers
of the great as the most voracious devourer of flat-
• Tnia nnawers to twelve at noon.
t A Cingaleae hour ia equal to twenty-four minutes; con!e•
quently; eighteen minutes lUter dark.
84! 8KETCHBS OP llllPOSTU&E,
tery could desire. The reader will not fail to ~e.
likewise, that, when they are singing the prailies of
"the eminent governor," they find no difficulty ia
expressing themselvee so u to be clearly understood.
CHAPTER XXVI.
DDICM. DIIL11110)111 .OJ<D I'JLUIJIII,
State of Medicine in remote Ages-Animals Teachers ofllledicin-
Gyrunaatic Medicine-Cate'll Cure few a Fraeture-Dearn- <I
ancient Medicines and medical Booka-Abeurdity of the ancieD&
Materia Medica : Gold, Bezoar, Mummy-Prescription for a
Quartan- Amuleta- Virtues of Gems-Corals-Charms-
Charm for sore Ey-Medicioe eonJJeetecl with Astrology-
Cure by Sympathy-Sir Kenelm Digby-The l'll8l Cause·of tho
Cure-The Vulnerary Powder, &c.-The Royal Touch-Eve-
lyn's Description of the Ceremony-Valentine Greatrakea--
Morley'a Cure for Scrofula.--Iooculatron--Vaeemation--1>1'.
Jenner-Animal Magnetism-'-M. Loewe's Aecouwt ol it-Mfi-
mer, aad hia Feats-Manner of Mapetbiag-Report of a Cem-
mi.ssiolt en the Subjeet - Metallic Tractors-Baron Silfvel"
hielm od the Souls in White Robes-Mr. Loutherbourg-Em.
pirics-Uroeeopy-Mayenbaeh-Le Fe~Remediea for the
Stone-The .Auodyne Necklace;....The Ullivenal M•dlcille-
Concluaion. •
THE history of the art of medicine begins with
fable and conjecture, and rests on dubious .tradition.
Fifty years prior to the .Trojan war, Esculapins is
said to have been deified, on .account of his medical
skill ; and 1\fachaon and Podalirius, his soDS, formed
·the medical staff of the Grecian army before Troy.
In the~ temples of the gods diseases and cures were
registered, and engTaved on marble tables and huog
up, for the benefit of others. The priests, ·at that
ti~e, prepared the medicines, and made it a lucrative
trade; and fables. were invented to increase the re:-
DECEPTION, AND Cl\EDULrTY. ·348
BOW& of the oracle, for difficult cases were stated to
be caused by the immediate wrath of Heaven, in
which the only remedies were prayer and sacrifice&,
fear urging the trembling patients to follow whatever
course was prescribed.
From the sacred writings little medical information
is derived~ Moses gave precautionary dit'ections for
ttle prevention or cure ofleprosy, consisting chiefly of
cleanliness ; and religion was called in to enforee the
medicinal ordinances. In Babylon, we are told by
Herodotus, that the flick were carried out to th~
public roads, that travellers might converse wit.h
them, and acquaint them with any remedies they
had seen used in such complaints with success. In
Egypt, each physician applied himself to one di~ease ;
and Prosper Alpinus, in his History of Egyptian
Medicine, reports that they took the hints of curin8'
divers diseases from brute beasts: thus phlebotomy
.was taken from a practice noticed in the hippopO-
tamus, or river-horse, which bleeds itself when ple-
thoric, by pressing its thigh on a sharp-pointed reed.
Dogs and cats are known, when sick, to vomit theat-
seb·ea by eating grass ; swine, whenill, refuse meat,
and so reeover by abstinence. In like manner froiD.
·numerous botlies, as flies, loeusts, &c., being enclosed.
in amber, it is thought the art of embalming was
first suggested.
Gymnastic medicine was founded by Herodicus ;
·~mes and sports had been early instituted in the
Grecian states, and were divided into religious, mili-
tary, athletic, and lastly medical gymnastics, particu-
larly adapted for the prevention or cure of diseases.
Herodicus, from his observations on its advantages,
commenced practising'as a physician, and it was his
·onlr paneoea. After him came Hippoctlites; ttlro
•
Ill
344 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
made the first successful attempt to separate the
medical profession from rash empiricism, and the fri-
volous dreams of philosophers. He compared the
body to a circle, in which an universal sympathy of
parts existed ; his great repute arose from his skill .
m predicting crises, which he was enabled to do with
perfect precision.
. Pliny says Rome was inhabited- six hundred
.years before any physicians established themselves
there ; and for some time the medicine of the Romans
consisted of charms, fascinations, incantations, 'and
amulets. The book of Cato de Re Rustica, is a
proof of the gross superstition and ignorance of those
times. He proposed, in a case of fra~ture to have
it bound up. and the following words sung everv
,day-" Huat, Hanat, ista pista, fista, dominabo, dam:.
nastra et luxata."
When the religious frenzy of the Mahometans
.was abated, and they became enriched by commerce,
arts and literature, after ages of barbarism, were
,again cultivatea with great industry, and the medical
.profession, in particular, was rewarded and encouraged
,with rank and bountiful endowments. lEtius com-
plained in his time of the general use of quack medi-
cines, nostrums, &c., and of the immen8e price
demanded for those which were fortunate enough to
rise into general repute. Danaus, he tells us, sold
his collyrium, ·at Constantinople, at the astonishing
.price of one hundred and twenty pieces of gold to
each patient, and sometimes could scarcely be per-
.suaded upon to sell it at any price. Nicostratus
.demanded no less than two talents for his celebrated
isotheosis, or antidote against the colic.
The works ofthe Grecian and Arabian physicians,
when they became to be more generally known in the
DECKPTION, AND CREDULITY. 345
fifteenth century, were most highly prized. In the
year 1471, Louis XI. borrowed the works of Rhazes
from the Paris faculty, but waR obliged, previously,
to deposit a quantity of plate, and find a nobleman
tojoin with him, as an additional security for the care
andsafe returnofthebook. Jew physicians were atthat
time employed by the Pope, and most of the crowned
beads in Europe. John of Gaddesden was the first
Englishman appointed Court Physician in London.
His idea of the treatment of diseases was rather dif.
ferent from the theories of the present day ; for when
attendiug the king's son for small-pox, he directed
the room to be hnng with scarlet cloth, and the
patient'to be rolled up in similar stuff.
The rationale of the Materia Medica one hundred
and fifty or two hundred years since was very extra~
ordinary, as well with respect to the nature of the
substances proposed as remedies, as to the number of
ingredients, sometimes thirty or forty, which were
congregated together in each composition, upon the
principle that if one did not reach the disorder another
might.
The nature of the substances used was, often,
even more extraordinary and disgusting than their
va1·iety ; many of them wer-e thought to act by a·
charm, or by the strong sensation of disgust which
their exhibition excited, rather than by any more
direct appeal to the disordered part. The more pre-
cious also the article, the more certain was thought
the cure.
The aurumpotubile,and otherpreparations ofgold,
were concei\·ed to have many virtues. Gold, by the
chemical writers, was styled the sun and king of
metals. Kings and princes were thus amused and
defrauded, and their lives made shorter than tlrose of
346 SKETCHES 01' IMPOSTURE,
their subjects who were beneath the use of gold.
The chickens they ate were fed with gold, that they
might extract the sulphur, and prepare the metal by
their circulation ; the physicians were contented to
collect all the gold, which pasaed unaltered and un-
diminished through the poultry, into their pockets.
Bezoar denotes an antidote, from a Persian word,
and is generally applied to medicinal stones, gene-
rated in the stomach and other 'riscera of animals.
Bezoars usually attain the size of acorns or pigeons'
eggs, the larger the more valuable. A stone of one
ounce was sold in India for one hundred livres, and
one ef four ounces and a quarter for two thousand ;
they were very scarce, and few of the genuine eYer
came into the European market, the greater number
that were sold being artificial compounds. The hog
bezoar, or Pedra del Porco, was first brought into
Europe by the Portuguese ; it is found in the gall-
bladder of a boar in the East Indies ; the Indians
attribute infinite virtues to it, as a preservative
against poison, cholera,· &c. The porcupine and
monkey bezoars were held in such esteem by the ·
natives of Malacica, that they neYer parted with them
unless as prt~~~ents to ambassadors and princes; single
stones have been sold for sixty or eighty pounds
sterling. In 17I 5, bezoar was thought equal in value
to gold. Dr. Patin says of it, the most visible ope-
- ration !t bath is when the bill is paid; and he calls it
the scandalous stone of offence, and lasting monu-
ment of perseverance in imposture.
The most loathsome preparations were recom-
mended, and eagerly used by the eick. Mummy had
the honour to be wom in the bosom, next the heart,
by kings and princes; and all those who could bear
the price. It was pretended, that it was able to
DBCEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 341
preserve the weal'('J' from the most deadly infections,
and that the he»rt was secured by it from the inva~
aion of all malignity. A dram of a preparation
called treacle of mummy, taken in the morning, pl'elo
vented the danget> of poisonfor .all that day. Thus ·
decayed spices and gums, with the dead body of an
Egyptian, were thought to give long life.
To cure a quartan, or the gout, " take the hair and
nails, cut them small, mix them with wax, and stick
them to a live crab, casting it into the river again."
The moss from a dead man's scull was held to be of
sovereign virtue in some cases. .
Amulets were much used formerly, not only to
core but to prevent disease, and also were thought
to have a wonderful power over the moral qualities
and affections. The onyx, worn as an amulet,
strengthened the heart, and refreshed phantasms. The
ruby resisted poisons, and preserved from the plague.
If a man was in danger it changed colour, and be-
came dim, but recovered its brightnet<s when the
danger was pasi. Hence, perhaJIII, was the origi-
nal motive for carrying jewels and precious stonea,
set in rings or in seals.
Corals, says Paracelsus, "are of two sorts: one, a
clear bright shining red ; the other, a purple dark
red. The brigM is good to quicken phansie, and is
against phantaaies, or nocturnal spirits, which fiy
from these bright corals, as a dog from a staff, but
they gather where the dark coral is. . A spectre
or ghost is the starry body of a dead man: now these
ethereal or starry bodies cannot endure to be where
the bright corals are, but the dark-coloured allures
them ; the operation therefore is natural, not magi-
cal, or superstitious, as some may think. Bright
coral restrains tempests of thunder and lightning,
and defends ua from the cruelty of savage monsters,
~
348 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
that nre bred by the heavens contrary to the course
of nature ; for sometimes the stars pour out a seed,
of which a monster is begotten ; now these monsters
cannot be where corals are."
The use of charms in medicine was a very ancient
practice, and, when once commenced, ejlch succeed.
ing charm became more ridiculous. Pieri~Js meniions
an antidote against the sting of a scorpion; the pa-
tient was to sit on an ass, with his face to tbe tail, for
by this means the poison was transmitted from the
man to the beast. Sammonicus, a poetical physician,
recommended the fourth book of Homer's Iliad to
be laid under the patient's head to cure a quartan
ague. The efficacy of scriptural sentences was de-
duced ft·om the custom of the Jews wearing phy-
-lacteries. .
An approved spell for so1·e eyes was worn as a
jewel about many necks: it was written on paper~
and enclosed in 11ilk, " never failing to tlo sovereign
good when all other helps were helpless. . No sight
might dare to read it, but at length a curious mind,
while the patient slept, by stealth ripped open the
mystical cover, and found in Latin, Diabolus effodiat
tihi oculos, impleat foramina stercoribus."
When astrology was in repute, physic was gene-
rally practised with some reference to the stars, and
the astrologic;al judgments became a very common
object of inquiry amongst physicians. A. Dr. Saun-
ders, who wrote very fully on this branch of the
science, thus commencet! :-
"From hence
Withdrawall ~.arping critica that deny
The great art of sublime astrology,
Which, unto such as have attained the key,
Showa the true cause of a disease, Bnd may
Direct the doctor, expeditiously,
The no:areat way to cure the malady.''
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 349
But, says he, " the firm and steadfast confidence in the
Almighty is quite essential to the happy conclusion
of all expectionates; for, if thou presumest other-
wise, no doubt but that will be verified on thee
which the prophet sayeth to the Chaldeans, ' Sapien-
tia et scientia te decepiet,' for either, by thy own
ignorance and mistaking, thou wilt be st>duced, or
else Heaven itself 8hall yield unto thee so ambiguous
an answer, that thou shalt nut be able to conclude
any certainty.
" The Egyptians, Chaldeans, and Arabians, do
observe many curious observations in this art, as
translation of light, prohibition, contraradiation; res-
titution, frustration, obsession, cursuvacation, cursu-
tardation, ferality, augedescention, meridiodescentia,
lnminiminution, numeriminution, via comhusta, &c.,
which, although I wish not to deny to have some
small effect, yet I have often proved, that overmuch
curiosity doth rather deviate a man from concluding
anything certainly.
"-If thou findest the cusp of the ascendant to fall
in the very latter end of a sign, then, doubtless, the
querent comes but to tempt thee ; or if the question
be not radical, if the lord of the ascendant or the
hour be not of one triplicity, it signifies the careless·
ness of the querent, and that he cares not whether
you bit or miss." _
Among the more remarkable of subsequent medical·
delusions were, the cure by sympathy, royal touch,
and animal magnetism. _Sounder views of medical
practice were entertained by dt>grees ; but enough of
~he old leaven offolly and superstition has, at different
times, shown itself, to prove that human nature will
never be free from the imputation of lending itself,
either from vanity, indolence, orignorance, to forward.
35() ltJtJ:TCHJ:S O:J' IMPOSTURE,
the views of ridiculous or unprincipled empiriciem ;
the disciples of which would, nevertheless, 'be tbe
first to disbelieve or dispute similar BBSertiona or ar-
guments, when applied to the exercise of other pro-
fessiOlls or trades.
The first medical delusion which claims o11J' notice
is the cure by sympathy. What is now the common
method of healing wounds, appeared most unnatul'al
to the surgeons at the end of the seventeenth cen-
tury ; and their legitimate and only cure proved auch
torture to the unhappy patients, that, in those days,
nothing was to be •heard in the hospitals, at:· the
time of dressing, but bowling and cries. A IIUID
proposing the .romantic doctrine ofadhesion ofwoanck
by union of their edges, would have been· deapiaecl;
but, if be were bold and cunning enough to give an
air of incantation to his cures, or declare that they
were performed by a secret philosophical Rympathy,
be was sure of success; No surgeon in Europe v.en.
tured to unite wounds directly, without pretending to
have leamt, from some eastern sage, or te ba.ve dis-
covered, by abstruse studies in philosophy and al..
ehemy, a sympathetic or phil0t1ophical mode of cure.
The first inventor of the sympathetic powder W88
the celebrated Paracelsus, and the Paracelsian doc-
tors flourished in England when Dr. Charleton wrote
his ternary of paradoxes, chiefly on the magnetic or
attractive power of wounds. This fanaticism lasted
no short time; and was hardly to be paralleled, except
by the study of the perpetual elixir, and the universal
solvent.
Sir Kenelm Digby, secretary to Charles I., was
driven into exile during the civil wars. In a discoune
upon the cure by sympathy, pronounced at Mont-
pelier before an assembly of nobles and learned men,
DECE1'~10ll:1 ANll CRB~ULl~Y. 351
hQ gave the curious case of Mr. Howell, who, wlUls~
eude~vouring to part two of his friends who were
fighting, had his hand cut to the bone. Sir Kenelm
w.as applied to for assistance. " I told him," says
he," 1 would willingly serve him; but if, haply, he
knew. the manner bow I would cure him, without
~oucbing or seeing him, it may be he would not ex-
pose himself to my manner of curing, because he
would think it, Pl!radventure, either ineffectual or
superstitious:' He replied, " The wonderful things
which many have related u11to me of your way of
medicinement makes me nothing doubt at all of its
efficacy ; and all that I have t() say unto you is com-
prehended in the Spanish proverb-,.....Hagase el milagro
y hagalo Maboma-Let the miracle be done, though
Mahomet do it."
" 1 asked him then for anything that had the
blood upon it; so he presently seat for his g.arter,
wherewith his hand was first bound, and dissolving
some vitriol in a basin of water, I put in the garter,
observing in the interim what Mr. Howell"did. He
suddenly started, as if he had found some strange
~teration in himsel£ I asked him what he ailed?
•:I know not what ails me, but I find that I feel DO
more pain ; methink.s that a pleasing ·kind of fresh-
neas, as it were a wet cold napkin, did spread over
!JlY hand, which hath taken away the inflammation
that tormented me before.' 1 replied, 'Since then that
you feel already so good effect of my medicament, 1
advise you to cast away all your plaisters, only keep
tAe wound clean, and in a moderate temper betwixt
beat and cold.' To be brief, there was no sense of
pain afterward; but within five or. six days the
wounds were cicatrized and entirely healed."
The king obtained from Sir Kenelm, the dis-
..
352 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
covery of his secret, which be pretended had been
taught him by a Carmelite friar, who had learned it
in Armenia or Persia.
The fact was, the sympathetical physician under-
stood the cure of wounds by adhesion more perfectly
than others ; but it ~as necessary to cheat the world
into this safe method of cure, and they declined the
use of it altogether, where they foresaw, from the
nature of the wound, it could not succeed. The·
public opinion would have been so strong against
any open innovation, that the sympathetic doctors
got credit for something like witchcraft, and conde-·
scended to dress axes and swords, that the woundtt
might have leave to lie at rest till they healed. All.
cures by adhesion were mysteriously performed, and
one in particular, called the secret dressing, in which
great pains were taken, before laying the lips of the
wound together, to suck out all the blood. This was
chiefly used by drummers in regiments, to conceal
the quarrels ofthe soldiers.
The trick of this way of cure consisted in making
grimaces and confortions, signing their patients with
the cross, and muttering between their teeth some
unintelligible jargon. Their care was to keep the
profession among themselves, and it was from the
profanation of the sign of the cross that there arose
a hot war between the priests and the suckers ; the·
former refusing confession, extreme unction, or any·
sacrament to those who had undergone the magical
or diabolical ceremonies of the suckers, who, on the·
other hand, refused to suck those connected in any·
way with the priests, being anxious to preserve their
trade, which was not without its emoluments ; for
Verduc observes that they were still more skilful in
sucking gold than blood•
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 353.
The "Vulnerary Powder, and Tincture of the
Sulphur of Venus," performed wonders, one' ofwhich
Dr. Colebatch relates of a Mr. Pool, who was run
through the body with a sword, and lost four quarts
of blood. The medicines being applied, the bleeding
stopped ; on the following day he " was gnawing
tough ill-boiled mutton," and drank a quart of ale;
and in the course of five days he returned to duty in
the camp. " A Mr. Cherry al~o, seljeant of gre-
nadiers at the attack of the Cll!ltle of.Namur, .was
wounded in twenty-six places, twenty-three with
bullets, and three large cuts on the head with a sword.·
He lay forty-eight hours stripped naked upon the
breach, without a bit of bread or drop of drink, or any
thing ·done to his wounds ; yet this man was cured
by the vulnerary powder and tiricture.Jllone, and never
had any fever*." · .
The materials of the sympathetic powder were
lilol'e heterogeneous and horrid than those whieh the
witches used to drop inte the caldron ; human fat,
human blood, mummy, the moss that grows in dead
men's sculls, or hogs' brains; and the chief schism
among the great masters of the sympathetic school
arose from the question, whether it was necessary that
themoss shouldgrowabsolutely in-the scull ofthe thief
who had hung on the gallows, and whether the medi·
• Mr. Matthews, the comedian, in his " Humours of a Country
Fair," has hardly e~erated, in describing a quack thus reading
acknowledgments from those cured by his specific_. ' Sir,-1 waa
cut in two in a saw-pit, and cured by one bottle.• ' Sir,-By the
bursting ofa powder-mill, I wae blown into ten thousand Gnalomiu.
Thefirst bottle ofyour incomparable collected all the parte together;
the second restored life and animation-before the thirdwas finished,
I was in my ueual state of health.' This hardly exceeds a reason-
able eatire on the preeumptuoua promises that still frequently ac•
company each bottle or box, licensed {l:om tM SttJmp Ojfles !
A A
354 SKETCHES OJ' IMPOSTURE,
cine, while compounding, was to be stirred with a
murderer's knife r
Some, anxious to avoid the damnable charges which
were urged against this practice, defended it on phi-
losophical principles, and from the apalogy of other
natural operations. Any lute, said they, being tuned
in unison with another, is affected when the other is
struck, the magnet turns by sympathy to the Pole,
amber attracts light bodies, loadstones hung to the
breast make us cheerful and merry, and the wearing
ofjewels secures chastity.
All ackno!fledged sympathetic cures were succesa..;·
fol, and the established surgeons of that day refused
. to practise the treatment, only because it was impious
and unlawful ; for, said they, how can we contradict
matters of fact r
We come !}OW to the second of the great medical
delusions, that which attributed to the royal touch a
sanative power in scrofulous cases. This is supposea
-to have been a monkish invention, to increase the
reverence for kings, and was practised in England
and France.
Becket, a writer in the time of Charles II., fully
describes the royal gift of touching for the evil,
which gift bad been confirmed and continued for six
hundred and forty years. It is proved out of Corin-
thians i. chap. 12. ver. 9. " To another the gift of
healing by the same spirit," and they must needs be
allowed no good subjects who dare deny this sanative
faculty, when so many thousands had received benefit I
Clovis I., the fifth king of France, who reigned
about five hundred years after the birth of Christ, is
reputed to have been the first who had the gift of
curing this disease. William of Malmesbury state&,
that Edward the Confessor was the first in England
DECEPTION, AND CRBDULJ:TY. 353
who healed strumous patients by the touch. 'nr.
Plott describes a piece of gold of this monarch, found
in St. Giles's Fields, near Oxford, having E. C. over
the head, as well as two small holes through it by
which it was hung on a riband, and used at the cere-
mony of touching for the evil. Some have considered
this gift as the most efficacious part of the cure ; some
imagined that the success was principally owing to
the sign of the cross made on the swellings.
The power of healing by the royal touch does not
seem tq have be£>n very frequently practised till the
time of Charles I. and II., after which it almost ceased.
Mr. Evelyn gives a full description of the ceremony.
''His majesty, says he, began to touch for the evil
according to custom, thus:- His Majesty sitting,under
his state in the Banquetting House, the chirurgeo'ns
eause the sick to be brought or led up to·the throne,
where, they kneeling, the king strokes their faces ·or
cheeks with both his hands at once, at whieh instant
a chaplain, in his formalities, says, 'He put his hands
upon them and he healed them :' this is said to every
one in particular. When they have all been touched
they come up again in the same order, and the·other
chaplain kneeling, and having angels of gold strung
on white ribands on his arm, delivers them one by one
to his majesty, who puts them about the necks of the
touched as they pass, whilst the first chaplain repeats,
•'Tltat is the true light who came into the world.'
Then follows an Epistle with the Liturgy, and prayers
for the sick with some alteration; lastly the blessing.
Then the lord chamberlain and comptroller of the
household bring a basin, ewer, and towel, for his
majesty to wash. John Bird says, the king expresses
his belief in the cure being effected through the grace
A A 2
356 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE, '
of God, saying, at the time ofthe ceremony, •I toncb;
God heals.' " :.
One of the historians of the royal touch- gives a
numerical table of the numher of persons touched by
Charles II., from May 1660 to 1680,distinguishing the
exact number ofeach year ; the grand total amounts to
the incredible number of niriety-two thousand one
hundred and seven, at the average of twelve every
day!
Others, besides those of royal extraction, set up
pretensions of curing certain diseases by touch. The
seventh sons of seventh sons had a more than usual
virtue inherent. in them. But the one who attracted
public attention most was Mr. Valentine Greatrakes;
called, par ezcellence, " The Straker." He was an
lrith gentleman, and came to England, invited by the
Earl of Orrery, to cure the Viscountess Conway of an
inveterate headache ; and though he failM in that at~
tempt, he is said to have wrought many surprising
cures, not unlike miracles. He was born in 1628,
seemed very religious, his looks·grave but simple. He
had felt a strange persuasion, or impulse, that he had
the gift ofcuring the evil, which suggestion becommg
very strong, he stroked several persons and c11red
them. During an epidemical fever, he cured all who
came to him, his power of curing extendingover divers
maladies. He performed such extraordinary cures
that he was cited into the Bishop's Court, at Lismore,
for not having a licence to practise. He arrived iD
England in 1666; and, as he proceeded through the
country, magistrates of the cities and towns through
which ·be passed begged him to eouie and cure their
sick. Having arrived in London, he every day went
to a particular part, where a prodigious number of
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY, 357
sick ofallranks and both sexes assembled. His fame
did not last, however. He returned to Ireland in
1667, and lived many years, but no longer kept up
the reputation of performing strange cures. .On the
strictest inquiry, no sort of blemish was ever thrown
on his character.
A Mr. Morley wrote on the virtues of the vervain
root; as an effectual cure for scrofula. " I recom-
mend," says he, " a piece of the root of common:
purple vervain, fresh, about three or four inches long,
all the fibres to be cut oft', and it is to be always worn
-at the pit of the stomach, tied with one yard of white
satin riband half-inch wide ; no other colour is proper,·
~cause the dye uiay be prejudicial."
It is the. fate of all useful discoveries or improve-
ments to meet with bigoted or interested opposition
from those·who would willingly remain in the beaten
path of habit,· rather than acknowledge any change
to be profitable. ·
That most important·discovery of the circulation of
the blood by Harvey was at first furiously opposed,
and was prqved, according to the laws of hydraulics,
to be both impossible and absurd ; yet, when it was
in vain to dispute the fact, it was undervalued, as one
almost known long before J
Inoculation, it iswell known, as a meansofrendering
small-pox less· severe, was introduced into England
by Lady Mary Wortley Montague, who had frequent
opportunities of seeing the operation performed, when
residing at Constantinople with her husband, the Eng-
lish ambassador there. She was so thoroughly
convinced of the safety of this practice, that she re-
solved to submit her only son to it ; a boy about six
years of age. The operation succeeded perfectly ;
this happened in 171,7, After her return to England,
It
358 SKETCHES OP 11\{POSTURZ, .
she set the first and great example, by having her
little girl, then five years old, also inoculated.
Mr. C. Maitland, who had accompanied the family
of Mr. Wortley, and had inoculated the son and
daughter of that gentleman, performed the operation,
by royal command, on six condemned criminal11 at
Newgate, in the presence of several eminent phy-
sicians and surgeons, and they all did well. Mr. Mait-
land, however, was not prepared to find this species
infectious, and was much surprised that the disorder
was caught by six servants, who were wont to hug
and caress a .little child, sick of the ino~ulated dis-
MBe.
So great a novelty, as the inoculation of a disealftl,
produced much astonishment and dread, and it was
opposed professionally andtheologically. Mr. Edmund
Massey preached a sermon, at St. Andrew's, Holborn,
J.uly 8, 1722, against the dangerous and sinful prac-
tice of inoculation. His text was Job, chap. ii. v. 7,
" So went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord,
and smote Job with sore boils, from the sole of his foot
unto his crown.'' From this text he argued that the
.disease with which Job was smitten was neither more
· nor less than the confluent small-pox. " With this
view, I shall not," said he, " scruple to call it a dia.
bolical operation, usurping an authority founded nei-
ther in nature nor religion. This practice also tends
to_
promote vice and immorality, inasmuch as it dimi-
nishes the salutary terror which prevails respecting
-the uncertain approach ofthe disease."
Inoculation has doubtless been of infinite benefit to
soeiety, but it is now superseded by a much greater
improvement, namely, that of vaccination. This is,
.beyond all comparison, the most valuable and the
IIJOit important discovery ever made ; it strikes out
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 859
one of the worst in the catalogue of human evils ; it
qnnihilates a disease which has ever been considered
as the most dreadful scourge of mankind.
Dr. Edward Jenner, the inventor of vaccination,
was born in .Gloucestershire, in 1749, and, being
educated for the medical profession, was placed under
the immediate tuition of Mr. John Hunter, with whom
he lived two years, as a house pupil. After finishing
his studies in London, he settled at Berkeley. His.
inquiry into the nature of cow-pox commenced about
the year i 776. His attention to this singular disease
was first excited by observing, thatamong those whom
he inoculated for the small-pox many were insus.-
r- ~t.. • that disorder. These persons, he was in-
d undergone the casual cow-pox,.which had
n in the dairies from time immemorial, !Wd
i)inion prevailed that it WQ a preventive .of
ox. He instituted a series of experiments,
, - .., 1 persons were .successively inoculated from
each other with vaccine matter, and then expo'lied to
the infection of small-pox, which they all resisted.
When these facts were communicated to the werld
envy assailed his fame, his discovery was depreciated,
then denied. Truth, however, ultimately prevailed,
vaccination obtained a complete triumph, and the foes
of Jenner and humanity were covered with confuslon.
Dr. Mosely, ene of his opponents, asks if any person
can say," What may be the consequences of intro-
ducing a beat&al kumot' into the human frame, after
a long lapse of yeara ?" He wu asked, in return,
" What may be the conaequences, after a long lapse of
years, of introducing into the human frame cow's
milk, beefsteaks, or a mutton chop?" Dr. Jenner llad
numerous presents of plate, &c., honours were con-
. ferred on him by dift'ereut societie. ; and a grant. of
---
•
360 &KETCHES OF INPOSTURlt, •
ten thousand pounds was voted to him by p..,...
liament. ,
The phenomena of Animal Magnetism, when an•
nounced to the world, excited the greatest sensation
on the Continent, particularly in Frapce; for some
years the subject filled their " Journals" and " Mer•
curies," and employed some of their best pens and
brightest wits.
M. Mesmer, the inventor, was a native of Switzer•
land, of gr(!at talents, but enthusiastic fancy. He
undertook to defend the old doctrine of the influence
of the planets on the human frame, and he searched
for some means of communication between them.
Electricity did not answer his expectations, and be
turned· his attention to magnetism. Iron becomes
magnetic after being rubbed with a magriet ; he there.
fore rubbed the human body with the loadstone. The
phenomena which .resulted he attributed, at first, to
the magnetic Difluence ; but experience proved to him
that the application of the bare hand produced the
same eft'eet, yet he called this animal magnetism.
M. Loewe, a supporter, says, " On a certain appli-
eadon of the palm of the hand and tips of the fingel'llt
made by the magl'letiser, without, however, touching
the person, or even at the distance of two or three
inches, the magnetised individual feels an increaae
of warmth, at times a chilliness or uneasiness within
him, particularly near the pit of the stomach. After
repeated applications, the eyelids become heavy, as,.d
the patient falls into a sleep, from which he cannot
be aroused by sense of hearing, or by any other of
the external organs of sense. There was one inBt&uce
of a magnetised person, who had only occasion to
enter the house of the magnetiser, in order to fall into
a profo\Uld and magnetical sleep. A very. rare reeult
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 361
of·this state is that of clairvoyance, when it has been
observed, that the internal sense seems to present
itself V~holly unconfined, and all nature appears to be
disclosed to it ; the body being, as it were, completely
numbed, eyelids i)pen, pulse soft and hardly percep-
tible, the countenance is transformed, and exhibits the
picture of innocence. They are in fervent prayer to
the Creator, or perhaps they describe scenes and pas·
times at the antipodes. A female, who had never been
in America, and had never read geographical descrip-
tions, described that continent, its inhabitants, &c.,
very accurately." .
Meeting with but little encouragement in Germany,
Mesmer went to France, where he was· exceedingly
successful. His cures were numerous, and of the
most astonishing nature. He was obliged to form a
number of pupils, under his inspection, to administer
his, process. His house, at Creteil, was crowded with
patients, and a numerous company was daily assem•
bled at his house at Paris, wht're the operation was
publicly performed.
One evening, l\1. Mesmer walked with six persons
in the gardens of the Prince de Soubise. He per-
formed a magnetical operation upon a tree, and, a
little· after, three ladies of the company fainted away.
The duchess, the only remaining lady, supported her·
self uppn the tree, without being able to quit it. The
Count of ---, unable to stand, was obliged to
throw himself upon a bench. The effects upon M.
A---, a gentleman of muscular frame, were more -
terrible; and M. Mesmer's servant, who was summoned
to remove the bodies, and who was inured to these
scenes, found himself unable to move. The whole
company were obliged to remain in this situation for
a CODSiderable time.
362 SKETCHES OF. IMPOSTURE,
The public method of magnetising was performed ia
a large room, in the centre of which stood a circular
box, large enough to admit of fifty persons standing
round it. Out of the lid came numerous branches of
iron, one to each patient. The patients applied this
.branch to the part.affected, and a cord, paBSed round
their bodies, connected one with the other, and each
patient pinched the thumb of his neighbour. A piano·
forte played different airs, with various rapidity, the
sound of which was also a conductor of magnetism.
The bucket in the centre was the grand reservoir,
from which the fluid was diffused.through the branches
of.iron inserted in the lid. All this was·purely ima-
ginary, for, on being tested with an electrometer and
needle of iron, it was evident the bucket contained no
substance either electric or magnetical. By degrees,
however, the several ranks of patients round the
bucket became affected with drowsiness, convulsions,
or hysterics, and nothing was more astonishing than
the ®mbination of effects at one view. The patients
appeared entirely under the government ofthe person
who distributed the magnetic virtue.
This system at length was thought to deserve the
attention of government, and a committee, partly
physicians and partly-members of the royal academy of
sciences, with Dr. Benjamin Franklin at their head,
were appointed to examine it. M. Mesmer refuaecl
communication with them, but M. Deslon, the most
considerable of his pupils, consented to disclose to
them his principlea. The result of the investigation
was made known by a report from the c,ommissioners.
They decided that, instead of being a novelty, Mea-
mer's was merely an ancient and worthless system,
which had long been abandoned by the learned.
The commissioners afterwards . made experimenta
DECEPTION, AND CRI!!DULI~Y. 363
on single subjects, and upon themselves. A~r repeated
experiments, not one of the commissioners felt any
aenaation that could be ascribed to the action of mag-
netism. Of fourteen sick persons, operated upon in
private, five only appeared to feel any effect from the
operation. In fact, magnetism did not appear to them
t.o have.any existence for those subjects who submitted
to it with any degree ofincredulity. ,
M. Sigault, by pretending to posaess the magnet-
ising power, had all the success of Mesmer himself.
He detailed, in a letter to the commissioners, the
results, as follows:-" The magisterial tone and aerious
air I affected, together with certain geaturea, made.a
Yery great impression on the woman of the house,
which abe was desirous to conceal, but, having guided
my hand upon the region of the heart, I felt it palpi-
tate. Her face became convulsed, her eyes wandered ;
she at length fell into a swoon, and was reduced to a
state of weakness and sinking perfectly incredible. I
repeatt>d the same trick upon others, and succeeded
more or less, according to their different degrees of
sensibility and credulity. A celebrated artist com-
plained for several days of an extreme headache, and
acquainted me with it on the Pont-Royal. Having
persuaded him that I was initiated in the mysteries
of Mesmerism, I expelled his headache, almost instan-
taneously, by means of a few gestures, to his great
astonishment."
From numerous experiments made by the com-
missioners, it was quite dear that those who were
most susceptible of the magnetic influence, if mag-
netised unknown to themselves, were not in the least
affected; whereas, when they nupected the operation
was performing, they exhibited all the usual pheno-
mena .attributed to that power, though in reality
11othing was done. ·
364 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURK,
Metallic tractors, as the agents of~imal m&gll'e~sm,
under the superintendence of Dr. Perkins, for a time
produced a sensation equally extraordinary ia Eng•
land ; but it was satisfactorily proved that tbe
imagination of. the patient alone gave virtue to the
tractors. Dr. Thornton found a wooden skewer had
all the power of the tractors in removing pain when
clandestinely used instead of them. .
The Baron Silfverkielm, of Uleateog, in Finland,
was a great proficient in Mesmerism. He imagined
the souls ofthose magnetically asleep were translated_
to the regions above, where the souls of the departed
were all dressed in white robes, and enjoyed constant
scenes of delight. He would interrogate the sleepers;
concerning the white robes, Paradise, and the Elysian
Fields. He was also desirous to receive intelligence
' from his ancestors, and, in general, they very kindly
sent him their compliments by the mouths of the
couriers in white jackets.
By directly attacking the imagination did Mr.
Loutherbourg cure vast numbers of patients. He be-
came impressed with the idea that he had a commjs·
sian from above to cure diseases, and his door was
soon crowded with patients all day. Amongst others,
a ·respectable man, from the country, bad been af-
fticted with great pains and swellings, particularly
about the loins, so that he could not walk across the
room. On entering, Mr. Loutherbourg looked stead.
fastly at bini, and said, "1 know your complaint, air,
look at- me." They continued looking at each other
some minutes; then Mr. L. asked, if be did not feel
some warmth at his loins. The man replied that he
did. "Then you will feel in a few minutes much'greater
warmth." After a short pause, the man said, " 1 feel as
if A person was pouring boiling water upon me."
StiU looking him in t\1.\\ t~, M..t. L. said, " How
DECEPTION, AND CREDULITY. 365
did y~ come here, sir ?" "In a coach.'' " Then go
and discharge your coach, and walk back to town "
(from Hammersmith Terrace, where Mr. L. resided).
The coach was discharged, and the patient walked to
town, and next day he walked five hours about town
without fatigue. He offered ten pounds ; b\lt Mr. L.
would not take·a farthing.
The easy manner in which people have become a
prey to illiterate and dangerous pretenders, in the
medical art, has been long known. Many thousand
'Volumes JOuld attest the truth of this observation,
which has been often repeated. Cotta, in 1612,
says, " There is no place or person ignorant how all
sorts of vile people and unskilful persons, without re-
straint, make gainful traffic by botching in physic; and
hereby numbers of unwotting innocents daily enthrall
and betray themselves to sustain the riot of their ene-
mies and common homicides.'' The late Dr. Buchan
exclaimed, ".As matters stand at present it is easier
to cheat a man out of his life than a shilling, and al-
most impossible to detect or punish the offender.''
The ea!le is still the same.
Uroscopy, or water-casting, was once very muc!P
practised, and those who profesBed to cure diseasea by
such inspection, simply, were consulted by all classes
of persons. The absurdity of these pretensions was
forcibly exposed by Dr. Radcliffe, on the following
occasion. A shoemaker's wife applied to him to re-
lieve her husband, who was very ill, presenting him
with a phial of his water for inspection. The.doctor
exchanged the contents, and bade her take ·that back,
and tell her husband to make a pair of shoes, by the
same instructions.
A Dr. Meyersbach started, about 1770, as a water
doctor ; he had arrived from Germany in a starving
366 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE,
statS~ and was first an ostler at a riding-school. Not
making money fast enough, he set up as a doctor,
and was consulted by all classes. Dr. Lettsoin took
great pains to expose the ignorance and knavery of
Meyersbach, whose violent medicines, if they some•
times cured, more often aggravated, his patients' rnf•
ferings. It is helieved that he acquired a good for-
tune, with which he retired tobis native country.
Le Fevre, another German, a broken wine-mer.
chant, set up for a gout doctor, and was much no-
ticed by the nobility. Under pretence of going tG
Germany for more of his powders, he quitted this
country, and had the prudence never to return. He
carried over above ten thousand guineas, obtained by
subscription and otherwise. Living in the style of
a prince, he drank daily, as hi11 first toast, "To the
credulou11 and stupid nobility, gentry, and opulent
merchants, of Great Britain."
Calculous disorders are so painful in general, that
people suffering from such causes eagerly fly to what
promises relief. Many specifics for this disease,
lithontriptics as they were called, had their day. In
..177l,a Dr. Chittick advertised such a remedy, and
made use of a very unusual expedient to keep it
secret. He would not intmst it to any one un-
mixed. The vehicle in which it was to be taken Wall ·
weak veal broth, which was sent him from day to
day. Each of his patients sent him three pints of
broth in a tin bottle, padlocked, to prevent curious
persons from prying, the doctor and patient each
having a key. His terms were two guineas a week;
regularly paid, besides which be expected a consider-
able premium for his pains. Mr. Blackrie, who ex-
posed this species of fraud, detected by analysis a
solution of alkaline salts and quicklime ; yet the
. DECEPTION, AND'CRBDULlTY, 367
doctor greatly exclaimed against the use of those
salts, as highly mischievous. , ·
A Mrs. Joanna Stephens was the proprietor of a
lithontriptic, which for a long time had a great repute,
and was even thought worthy the attention of par·
liament, who voted her five. thousand pounds for
making known the composition of it, a favourable
report of its efficacy having been given by the gen-
tlemen who were appointed trustees to examine
into. its pretensions. Subsequent experience has
11hown that it is not so well adapted to the ends
proposed, being a medley of soap aud ill-prepared
a1kaline substances, very nauseous and oppressive to
the stomach.
The recent and valuable discovery of lithotrity,
now practised by Baron Henrteloup and others~
namely, the application al mechanical power for the
destruction of the stone, without the use of the
knife, is likely to be of more signal advantage than
internal remedies, and, though it iscandidly stated by
its supporters not to be applicable in every ·ca&e, yet
it may frequently be perfortned without either pain
or irx:onvenience.
The Anodyne necklace, which was the result of
some ridiculous superstition respecting the efficacy
of Sir Hugh's bones, is still gravely offered for sale,
to facilitate the cutting of t.he teeth. In 1717, a
" philosophical treatise" was published, wherein u
says, " The effluvia and atoms, driven off by the heat
of the body, bear such a tendency to the ailing part,
as the loadstone does to iron, and that they will never
leave off acting till they have given ease, and conse-
quently it is a thing most capable of curing sympa-
thetically the diseases of a human body, of any thing
in the whole world. Since this famed ne.cklace ~as
368 SKETCHES OF IMPOSTURE, &c.
been published, the bills ofmortality have sodecreased;
as to be less than ever they have been known to be."
But the mmmum bonum, with which this series of
medical deceptions may appropriately be closed, was
the " univel'llal medicine, or virtues of the magnet-
ical antimonial cup, addre88ed to the houses of par-
liament by John Evans, minister and preacher of
Gotl's word. It is warranted to be alone the phamix
and miracle of all physieal miracles: the elixir of life,
balsam of nature. It containeth mystically and essen-
tially the quintessence of all minerals and vegetables,
and magnetically sympathiseth with all animals."
In spite, however, of such admirable never-failing
specifics, which, it would seem, ought to have exter-
minated every malady from the face of the earth,
diseases, hydra-headed, still ba1Be their assailants,and
return to the charge with renewed force and pro-
voking obstinacy; But the matter is too serious for
the subject of a joke. If even practitioners who have
conscientiously studied their profession are unavoid-
ably in some degree open to the old charge of.,, pour-
ing medicines, ofwhich they know little, into abody
of which they know less," what mus.t be said, or what,
ought to be the punishment, of such villanous pre~
tenders as those who have been described in this
chapter,-men without talent or education, and who
seem to think that, like charity, impudence covers a
multitude of sins I .
THI!! END.
LONDON:
BI\ADBV1T ANI) &VANI, PJLINT&al, WHIT&PJLIAJLS.
