{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__anonymous___the_folly_of_fortune_telling.pdf","mytitle":"The Folly Of Fortune Telling","mylang":"de"}
FORTUNE TELLING,
LONDON:
RELIGIOUS TKACT SOCIETY,
Instituted 1199.
AT TUB nnro>IT<>HV., 56, PATKRNOITBfl ROW I
AMU Bl THK BOOKSILLKBS.
Price One Penny.
THE FOLLY
OF
FORTUNE TELLING.
THE sun was parting his declining rays
through the tall elms in the valley ; the
church clock was striking the hour ;
and the
shadow of the old sun-dial in front of the
school-house was resting on the figure five,
as Arthur, William, and Clara Wilmore
left their school-fellows, and crossed the
vilhige green, on their way from school.
Full of light-hearted gaiety, William and
Arthur chased each other along the grassy
2 THE FOLLY OF
pathway, while their sister, a lively girl of
seven years old, followed them as fast as she
could. Her bonnet had blown back from
her head, and, held as it was by the strings
round her neck, kept nodding, first on one
side, then on the other, as she ran or walked
along, swinging her little bag of school-
books by her side. The hair of her head
was black as the plumes of the raven, and
the colour of her cheek was that of the full-
blown rose. To see young people happy
without being foolish is one of the most
delightful pictures in the world !
When the two brothers had got to the top
of the lane, by the large ash-tree, they saw,
on the borders of the waste land, a party of
gipsies sitting under a tent. Two women
were heaping bits of wood on a fire, over
which, from three stout sticks, hung a pot,
in which something was bulling. An old
man was idly reading a ballad, and a younger
man, half lying on the ground, playing a
fiddle, while three or four children sat amus-
ing themselves under the tent. A woman
dressed in a blue cloak was gathering nuts
from the brown boughs which hung from
the neighbouring wood ; but no sooner did
she see the two boys coming along the lane,
*han, leaving her employment, she c .UK-
torward to join them. Clara had overtaken
FORTUNE TELLING. 3
her brothers before the gipsy came up, and
they all three gazed at the swarthy face,
black hair, and sparkling eye of the stranger.
Now, it happened that Farmer \Vilmore,
who had walked out to meet his children
coming from school, saw the gipsy making
towards them, and, wishing unobserved to
hear their conversation, he crept softly along
behind the thick holly-bushes on one side
of the lane, so that he could hear distinctly
every word that was spoken.
Mr. Wilmore was a true Christian : he
looked forwards in humble hope, to a blessed
inheritance above, through the merits and
sacrifice of that Saviour who had died for
his sins, and risen again for his justification.
Farmer Wilmore was a kind father, and
watched carefully over his children. lie
wished them to become useful in their gene-
ration, and to live lowly disciples of Jesus
Christ ; and it was to prevent any ill conse-
quences which might arise from their con-
versation with the gipsy, that he had hast-
ened forward, to get behind the holly hedge.
" Good even to you, my young masters!
Good even to you, my little miss !" said the
gipsy, as she approached the voung people ;
" you appear so clean, and so happy, and so
i;o<d, that I should like to tell you your
fortunes. I warrant you have got an odd
4 THE FOLLY OF
sixpence among you; and you shall all
have your fortunes told you for that trifle.
I can see clear enough that you two will be
gentlemen all over, and your pretty sister
will ride in a coach and six before she dies."
Neither Arthur, nor William, nor Clara,
knew what to make of this address of the
gipsy. They all had a faint impression
that it was not right to tell fortunes, but, as
their parents had never had any particular
conversation with them on the subject, they
were not impressed with the knowledge of
its being positively wrong. Not knowing
what to say, they all stood silent, looking
timidly at the gipsy, who once more ac-
costed them. "Come, young gentleman,"
said she, speaking to Arthur, the eldest of
the three,
" 1 am sure your fortune will be a
good one, for I can see by your eyes that you
are of a generous disposition ;
and generous
people always prosper. I dare say that you
have got a sixpence in your pocket."
The coaxing and wheedling manners of
the gipsy had so far won upon Arthur, that
he would willingly have had his fortune told,
if he could have produced a sixpence ;
but
this he said he could not do, having only
two-pence in his possession. The cunning
gipsy, willing to get a little, rather than
uothing, agreed to tell Arthur his fortune
FORTUNE TELLING. 5
for two-pence ; adding, that so generous a
young gentleman would, she was well as-
sured, give her something more if he should
happen to meet her again.
The young group, as they gathered around
the gipsy, presented quite a picture, though,
when the object they had in view was con-
sidered, it was not of the most pleasing kind.
Here were three simple children being de-
ceived and led into folly by an artful woman.
The gipsy, after examining, an instant,
the lines running in different directions
across the palm of Arthur's hand, declared
him to be a very fortunate young man, but
that he would pass through many dangers,
meet with many enemies, and have to travel
into a far country. After this, she told him
much nonsense, mixed with much apparent
sage counsel how he ought to proceed.
While this was going on, Mr. Wilmore,
on the other side of the holly-bushes, was
noting down in his pocket-book, the prin-
cipal part of the gipsy's observations.
The gipsy at last went away, telling
Arthur that he would find every word she
had spoken to be true ;
and the three young
people pursued their walk homeward, talk-
ing of the wonderful things which had been
said by the gipsy, and expressing their sur-
prise how she could know one half what
fi THE FOLLY OF
she had told Arthur. There was no more
galloping
one after another ;
no more laugh
ing and joking; their minds were full of
what they had heard from the gipsy.
Mr. Wilmore took care to remain unob-
served hy his children, and thought, as he
walked home, of the best way to impress
their minds with the folly of fortune-telling'.
By the time he had arrived at his own
house, the adventure with the gipsy had
lein told to Mrs. Wilmore; for the young
people always freely communicated to their
parents whatever had happened to them.
Mrs. Wilmore, who was a judicious pious
woman, explained to them the presumption
of artful people pretending to know what
could only he known to God ;
and their
wickedness in deceiving those who were silly
enough to believe them, in order that they
might cheat them out of their money.
Mr. Wilmore, when told by Mrs. Wilmore
that Arthur had been persuaded by a gipsy
to have his fortune told, observed, that, had
he known that Arthur desired to be informed
of future events, he would have gratified his
curiosity himself, being quite as well quali-
fied as the gipsy to peep into futurity.
"
What, papa!" cried Arthur, "can you
tell fortunes ? If I had known that, I never
would have given my money to the gipsy."
FORTUNE TELLING. 7
" If you doubt it," replied Mr. Wilmore,
" after tea I will convince you of my ability :
and if I happen to differ from the gipsy in
my communications, you will at least be
convinced that one of us must be an im-
postor."
Little else was talked of, or thought of,
during tea, than the fulfilment of Mr. Wil-
more's promise; and no sooner were the
tea-things taken out of the room, than Ar-
thur went up to his father, and held out his
hand, that the lines on the palm of it might
be examined. "Keep your seat, Arthur,"
said Mr. Wilmore ;
" for my method is very
different from that of the gipsy : I can tell
what will happen to you quite as well by
looking on your face, as at your hand."
This seemed to astonish Arthur, as well
as his brother and sister ; but, seating him-
self once more on his chair, he looked at his
father, that he might proceed.
Mr. fJ'i/more. You will do well, Arthur,
to be on your guard, for you are surrounded
with many dangers.
Arthur. Why, the gipsy told me the same.
Mr. W. If I mistake not, a letter has
been sent to you.
A. The gipsy told me that. too.
Mr. W. Did she tell you that you would
meet with trouble of various kinds ?
8 THE POLLY OF
A. Yes ;
those are her very words that
she spake. I never knew the like before !
Mr. W. She might also have told you
that you had a deceitful friend.
A. She did ;
and that if I was not on my
guard, he would do me a mischief.
Mr. IV. She ought to have warned you that
you were about to do a very foolish thing.
Clara. I heard her say that, myself, papa ;
I am certain of it.
Mr. W. Very likely. One thing, how-
ever, Arthur, I must remember to tell you
of ; and that is, that you do not know enough
of your best friend.
A. If you had been there, you could not
have told us more correctly her very words.
Mr. W. So far, then, we appear to agree ;
but I will proceed. You have not in all things
been treated as you deserve ;
and you must not
expect to live a long time in this habitation.
A. The gipsy told me these things, too,
and said she was quite confident of them.
Mr. W. I told you before, I believe, that
you would have to contend with trouble ;
but there is one who dwells nearer you than
you imagine, who is ready to assist you.
A. I wish I knew who he was ;
but the
gipsy would not tell me, though I asked
her three times over.
Mr. W. I must not forget to mention that
FORTUNE TELLING. 9
you have secret enemies on the watch to
injure you.
A. The gipsy frightened me, by telling
me the same thing ;
but 1 shall find them
out, I'll be bound for it.
Mr. W. There is a friend who has suffered
much on your account.
A. Who is it, papa ? for you seem to know
every bit as much as the fortune-teller.
Mr. W. By and by, perhaps, I may tell
you ; meanwhile, the hope of conquering
jour enemies will be some comfort to you.
A. Ay, that is
good news, and so I told
the gipsy.
Mr. IV. You will go a long journey. Did
not the gipsy give you that information ?
A. O yes !
Eveiy word you have spoken
she told me before : did not she, William ?
William. Yes, every syllable ;
and if she
was here, she would say the same thing.
Mr. W. It would be a formidable thing to
be summoned on a trial ; and yet it is very
certain that such an event will take place.
A. I thought they would not let any one
so young as I am have any thing to do with
trials : the gipsy, however, bid me be pre-
pared for it.
Mr. W. It is not my wish to flatter a
child of mine, for flattery is sinful in itself,
and injurious in its influence; but I may
1 THE FOLLY OF
hope th.it you will come to high honour,
notwithstanding the difficulties you have to
pass through.
IV, Ay, that is good news ; the fortune-
teller told every one of us the same. Arthur
and I were to be gentlemen all over, and
Ciura. was to ride in a coach and six.
Mrs. IV. But, children, are you quite sure
that all
your papa has told you, was told you
by the gipsy ?
A. We are certain that papa and the for-
tune-teller said the same things ;
and it is
so wonderful, that I cannot tell what to think
about it.
Nobody shall ever convince me,
after this, that gipsies know nothing about
what is to happen.
Mr. IV. I hope to convince you of that,
myself, Arthur :
indeed; it was with that very
intention I undertook to do what I have done.
W. What, papa! do you not believe in
fortune-telling ?
C. I always knew that papa could do
almost any thing ;
and now 1 feel certain
that he can tell fortunes.
Mr. IV. No, my dear Clara, your papa
can do but little ; and as to telling fortunes,
if you were to use the same means, you
would soon be able to tell what would happen
to others quite as well as myself.
C. Should I ?
Oh, I would give any
FORTUNE TELLING. 11
thing to know all about it. Do tell me,
papa, and I will love you so.
A. And tell me, too. It must be a capital
secret. I am certain.
W. Yes, that it must. Do tell us all, papa.
Mr. It'.
Well, as you all wish so much to
know how you may read future events, I
will instruct you, as well as I am able :
but,
are you all satisfied that I know as much
about the matter as the gipsy ?
A. and W. Yes, yes.
C. I should think papa knew a great deal
better than the fortune-teller, for she was
obliged to look on the lines of Arthur's hand ;
but papa tells everything when only looking
in a person's face.
Mr. W. Yes, but it is not my looking
either on the hands or the face that enables
me to tell you what will happen to you. I
get
it all from a famous book in my possession, a
book which contains more knowledge than all
the rest of the books in the world.
A. Do 1ft us see the book. I can fancy
that it is very large, and very thick, with
a red cover, and brass clasps to it.
Mr. W. Sit still, then, and I will go for
the famous book that I
spoke of.
The children all sat still ;
but no sooner
did they hear the sound of their father's
feet, than they turned their eyes anxiously
12 THE FOLLY OF
towards the door. Mr. Wilmore entered the
room, placing a large book on the table,
which they knew to be the family Bible.
Mr. W. Now then, I shall be enabled to
give you every necessary information.
A. But, papa, is that the great book you
spoke of ?
Why that is the Bible.
Mr. W. It is the book that I spoke of,
Arthur, and the only book, too, that may
le relied on in telling us of future events.
Now, listen attentively to what I have to say.
My dear children, fortune-telling, as it is
called, is both foolish and wicked ;
and the
idle and artful people who go about the
country to practise it, not only deceive, but
frequently lead into folly and sin the silly
people who have no more sense than to be-
lieve them. Fortune-tellers generally speak
of such things as are pretty sure to happen ;
such as, "You will hear of some news;"
"
Something will happen to please you ;" or,
" Before long a friend will pay you a visit."
A. The gipsy said so.
Mr. tV. Now, there can be no great wis-
dom in telling us of that which is
happening
continually. We are sure to hear news of
some kind or other. Something happens most
days to pleasw us : and it is nothing uncom-
mon for a friend to pay us a visit : there-
fore we must be very silly to give any one
FORTUNE TELLING. 13
credit for wisdom in predicting such things
as these. No doubt, you have thought it
very wonderful that I should tell you the
same things as the gipsy did ;
but you will
no longer wonder when I explain to you that,
all the time the woman talked with you, I
was standing behind the holly-bushes, hear-
ing every word that was spoken.
A. Oh, oh, papa ! that never entered my
head at all: no wonder that you should
know all about it.
Mr. W. When the gipsy told you what
she did, it was done to deceive you into a
belief of her knowledge ; whereas, she knew
no more of the future than you did. Her
remarks were all of a general kind ;
and she
might just as well have told you that to-
morrow morning you would eat your break-
fast, and that when you went to bed at night,
you would put on your nightcap.
A. I begin to think the gipsy was not s<?
wise as I took her to be, and that there
was nothing very wonderful in what she
told me.
Mr. tV. But, though the gipsy had n*
meaning in what she told you, 1 had a great
deal of meaning in what fell from my lips ;
for I had the authority of the word of God,
for believing that what I said was true;
nd this I will now more fully explain.
14 THE FOLLY OF
I told you that you were surrounded with
danger: now, the Bible says,
" Be sober, i e
vigilant ;
because your adversary, the devil,
as a roaring lion walketh abouf, seeking
whom he may devour," 1 Pet. v. 8.
I told you that a letter had been sent to
you. Now, if you look at this blessed book,
you will find that many letters have been
sent to you. All the epistles are letters
written by the Holy Spirit, to teach us hea-
venly wisdom ; and you will do well to read
them more attentively than you have done.
I said that you would meet with trouble,
because the Bible has said the same thing
before me :
" Man is born unto trouble as
the sparks fly upward."
I warned you that you had a deceitful
friend, and so you have ;
" the heart is de-
ceitful above all things."
I gave you to understand that you were
about to do a foolish thing ;
and my reason
fur thinking so, was, because "Foolishness
is bound in the heart of a child."
I said you did not know enough of your
best Friend, and I said right; for the Bible
declares,
" I have nourished and brought i.p
children, and they have rebelled against me."
As it was with Israel, so it is with us all.
Did I not tell you that you had not been
treated as you deserve ? The scriptures say,
FORTUNE TELLING. 1^
<;
God hath not dealt with us after our sins,
nor rewarded us according to our iniquities/'
Did I not say, you must not expect to
remain long in this habitation ? Alas ! the
longest life is short ;
for " Man that is bom
of a woman, is of few days, and full of
trouble : he cometh up like a flower, and is
cut down."
I mentioned that one dwelt near you, ever
ready to assist you. What s^ays the word
of God ? "The Lord is nigh unto all them
that call upon him : to all that call upon
him in truth."
I spoke of your secret enemies ; thtse are
the world, the flesh, and the devil. 1 said
that a Friend had suffered much on yiur
account : this Friend is the Saviour, the
Fiirnd of sinners. " He was wounded for
our transgressions; he was bruited for our
iniquities: the chastisement of our peace
was upon him, and with his stripes we are
healed," Isa. liii. 5.
I said I hoped you would conquer all your
enemies; and I trust that, through Christ,
you will be enabled to do this : for the apostle
Paul, in speaking of the followers of the
Redeemer, says, in the midst of trial and
jiersecution,
'
In all these things we are more
than conquerors, through Him that lov d us."
I told you, you woidd go a long journey ;
16 FOLLY OP FORTUNE TELLING.
and so you will, and how soon you cannot
tell. You will pass from this world to ano-
ther ;
and happy will it be if you can say
with the apostle,
" For to me to live is Christ,
and to die is pain :
having a desire to depart,
and to be with Christ, which is far better."
I said you would be summoned on a trial ;
and this is a solemn truth ;
for the scriptures
say,
fl
We must all appear before the judg-
ment seat of Christ!" 2 Cor. v. 10.
Lastly, I spoke to you about coming to
high honour ;
and this all the followers of
Je^us Christ, redeemed by him from all
iniquity, shall receive. " When Christ who is
our life shall appear, then shall ye also ap-
pear with him in glory."
And now, my dear children, having given
you such good authority for all that I have
advanced, you will perhaps pay the more
attention to my concluding remark, which is,
that the word of God is the only source of
true knowledge respecting future events.
The gipsies know no more of what will
happen than yourselves ;
and among human
follies, there is
scarcely a greater one than the
folly of fortune telling ;
while you cannot do
a wiser or a better thing than to search the
scriptures, and listen to the word of God.
J Bar*, Lover of iny soul,
Lot me to thy bosom Hy,
\Vhiie th<-
'
I lulu me, O
Till the- storm ot'liic i-
Safe into !
(lt '!
O receive my s<jul at last !
