{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__perros___preliminary_huac_report_on_william_dudley_pelley.pdf","mytitle":"Preliminary Huac Report On William Dudley Pelley","mylang":"de"}
-CONf'i[)Ei'lTIAt
PRELDlDfARY INVENTORY
OF mE
SPECIAL HOOSE COMMITTEE ON UN-uERICANACTIVITIES
AUTHORIZED TO INVESTIGATE NAZI PROPAGANDA AND CERTAIN
OTHER PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
H. B!5. 196, 73rd CONGRESS
George P. Perro.
Introduction
GON'lENTS
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Page
1
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 6
Appendix AI Headings of the Correspondence of
Represent&tiTe Charles Kramer, of
California •••••••••••••••••••••••• 10
Appendix BI Headings of the Main Correspondence
File •••••••••.•.•• • • • ••••••• • •••••• 12
Appendix CI Headings of the Informational-
aateriala ••.....••••••..••......•. 30
Appendix DI Headings of the J'11e. of William
Dudley' Pelley, Leader of the Silver
Shirts ot America ••••••••••••••••• 31
INTROOOCTION
The Special Co.:1t'tee on Un....ric8.Jl Activities Authorized to Inves-
tigate Nazi Propaganda Acti"rlties and Certain Other Propaganda Activities,
was constituted pur8U8.l'1t to House Resolution 198, 73rd Congress, adopted
by the House ot Representatives on March 20, 1934. House Resolution
198, 73rd Congress, introduced on January 3, 1934, by Representative
Sall1el Dickstein, ot New York, prorided in part as tollowsl
Resolved, '!'hat the Speaker of the House ot R.presentati'9815
be, and he i8 hereby, authorized to appoint a special committee
to be cOJlposed ot seven Member"s tor the purpose ot conducting
an inwstigation of (1) the extent, character, and objects of
Nazi propaganda activities in the United States, (2) the dif-
fusion within the United States ot subversi'98 propaganda that
is instigated from toreign countries and attacks the principle
ot the tora ot government as guaranteed by our Constitution,
and (3) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid
Congress in any necessary remedial legislation.
On A.pril 5, 1934, the Speaker ot the House, the Hon. Henry '1'. Rainey,
acting in accordance with the resolutioa, appointed )(esBrs. John W
)(cCor.ack, ot Massachusetts, (chairman) J S&llUel Dickstein, ot New York;
Charles lra.er, ot California; '!'hOES A. Jenkins, of Ohio; J. Will Taylor,
ot Rennessee; and U. S. Guyer, ot Kansas, ...mers ot the special COlI-
mittee. The COIIId.ttee naaed Representative Samuel Dickstein to act as
their nce chairun and designated the Hon. ThOMS W. Hardwick, ot Georgia,
to serve as cOllllld.ttee counsel.
The considerations which hact persuaded the Hou.. ot Representatives to
authorize the investigation ot Nazi and other propaganda actin.ties ....re
described bT the chairman of the cODDlittee, Representative John W.
JlcCoraack, in a stateMnt _de at the beginning ot the tirst session of
the public hearings ot the cOlllllittee, held in Washington, D. C., on
June 5, 1934; -.1 period ot profound and protracted depression has .£01-
lowed in the wake ot the World War. It bas been world-wide. More than
15 years have .lapsed since tbe ending ot that war, but its blighting
etfect upon the economic lif. and upon the IIOrale of practically all
the people ot the ...orld still erlsts. During such a period ot unrest,
discontent with the existing oreier, and a wid.spread agitation tor
changes in the form, character, and substance ot governMnts has spread
over the ...orld, overturning established goverraents and resulting in
Il8I'l)" n.... and radical experiaents in goverDllent.
tlIn Europe, almost without exception, govermnental systems that
Bought to guarantee the rights and liberties ot the citizens were
----------
overthrown and either COIIIIlUIdIllll or FasciBJll was installed. In either
instance, whether the IlOvement was to the right or to the lett, despotism.
supplanted freedoa under parlia.ntar.T govemaent and the rights and lib-
erties ot the people perished. FreedOil ot the press, treedom of speech,
and treedOil ot assemblage ware denied to the people under either 8)"atem.
In these circUJI8tances, with so large a percentage ot its population of
foreign, usualq European, origin, the Hou.. of Representatives bas
keenl)" sensed and tu1l7 realised the danger of rtciou.s propaganda of
foreign origin aimed at the subversion of those tundamenta1 principles
upon which our Constitution rests and seeks to investigate the extent and
origin of such propaganda, with the ultillate object of protecting this
countr,. and its people trom its diesemination."
In the debate o'ftr House Resolution 196, 73rd Congress, on the floor
ot the House ot Representatives, Representative Samuel Dickstein character-
ized the objectiTe ot the cOlllldttee ae tol101JSI "This special investi-
gating cOJllllittee should seek to accOilplish three priaary' objects: First,
ascertain the tacts about _thode of introduction into this coun'tr7 of
destructive, subftrsive propaganda Originating from foreign countries;
second, ascertain tacta about organizations in this country that see. to
be cooperating to spread this alien propaganda through their ...b8rship
in this ccnmtry; third, study and recommend to the House the appropriate
legislation which My correct existing tacts and tend to prevent the
recurrence ot a eiJdlar condition in the tuture.·
Pursuant to House ResolutiOD 196, 73rd Congress, the cOllUlittee con-
ducted public and exeoutiva hearings intermittent17 between April 26,
1934, and December 29, 1934, in Washington, D. C., New York, N. Y.,
Chicago, Ill., Los Angeles, Calif., Ashertlle, N. C., and Newark, N. J.
The committee examined bundreds ot witnesses; i ts
"01U1ted to aore than 4,300 pages. Evidence was taken b7 the cOlllllittee
concerning indirtduals and organizations who worked to establiBh in the
United States policies followed by' the regimes ot Nazi Geru.D7, Fascist
Ital7, and Communist Russia.
hong the persons and organizations investigated by' the cODDDittee to
discover eT.i.dence ot Nazi activities, were Fritz Gies1b1, Kurt Georg
Wilhelm Luedicke, Heinz Spanknoebe1, George S)"lftster Viereck, Dr. otto
H. F. Vollb8hr, Reinhold Walter, certain ._bers of the Geraan dip1ou.tic
corps, r.spresentatives of Geraan ste.ship lines, Friends ot New
Germ&n)", Si1ftr Shirt. ot A._rica, Order ot '76, and A_rican Vigilante
Intelligence Federation. The Committee attention to the
organization and activities ot the Friends of New GerJl&lly and the Silftr
Shirts ot Amrica. Evidence was adduced before the committee showing
-- --
2
that the conditions of membership in the Friends of New Germany 1r8re
tithe S8ae as membership in the National Socialist Ger1llll Labor Party;
that its principles were the same; that it permitted only those of
so-called 'Aryan blood,' born in Germany or of GerEn descent, to jOin,
and that it was fashioned entirely along the lines ot the Nazi Party of
GerJlaIlYJ that it was receiving and recognized orders trom Germany; that
it was for all practical purposes, if not in fact, the A_rican section
ot the Nazi IIOve_nt in (lermany ••• " Evidence taken by the committee
disclosed that the Silver Shirts of America, modeled after the Storm
Troops of GerE1'ly, were founded by' William Dudley Pelley early in ·1933,
with headquarters in Asheville, North Carolina; that Pelley had estab-
lished chapters of "Sil'98r Shirts" throughout the United States, over
which he exercised the powers of a dictator; that Pelley had _de over-
tures to Nazi leaders and groups ill the United States, besides esploying
an 81Iis&ary to certain officials of Gel"Ell steamship lines engaged in
turthering Nazi aills the United states; that may "Silver Shirts· in
San Diego bad been armed; that GoverrDllS11t ammunition from North Island
had co_ into tbeir bands by wrongful means; and that the "Silver Shirts"
were utiliziag a target range for firearm.s practice and maneuftrs. In
the course of the committee's investigation of Nazi activities, William
Dudley Pelley and his adjutant, Robert Summernlle, were convicted in
Buncombe County, North Carolina, of the felony of selling stock without
authorization and registration, in violation of the Blue Sk;y Law of that
State. '!he collapse of the "Silver Shirts" legion ensued. From the
evidence in its record, the committee concluded that through strenuous
efi"orts, progress had been JIlade in rooting Nazi ideology in the United
States, but that the exposure of this activity by' the committee had checked
the progress and had, in addition, launched a disintegration of the move-
_nt furthering its advancement.
Aaong those furnishing evidence to the committee on Fascist activities
was llajor General S.dley D. Butler, who testified as to converstaions
with one Gerald C. lIacGuire, in which the latter was alleged to have
suggested the formation of a Fascist under the leadership ot General
Butler. Evidence was sutmitted to the committee tending to show Fascist
activities by an Italian vice consul at Detroit, Michigan. The cOJlllDittee,
tald..ng cognizance of activities of organizations which seemed to be guided
by' Fascist principles, conducted a probe ot these organisatiOns, finding
that their activities were making no headway. Tn the course of its
inquiry, the cOllUldttee tound only isolated cases ot Fascist activity, and
concluded that efforts to implant Fascist ideology in the United States
were lI&k:ing no progress.
For the eIi.covery ot eTidence concerning COIIIII1Ullist activities, the
committee took the testimony of several leaders of the COIIllIlUl1ist Party
. :1
3
in the United states, including Earl general secretary to the
COIIBlUDist Party, and James W. Ford, a JI8:aber of the executiTe committee
ot that party. In addition, the committee conducted a series ot public
hearings in December 1934, at Washington, D. e., at which representatives
of organizations and agencies that had been stud;ying and iDftstigaing
Communist activities presented state.ents ot their "findings accompanied
with recOllDl8Ddations tor remedial action. The findings ot the cOJlllllittee
concerning COJIIlUnist activities paralled those of the Special Committee
to Investigate CoJllllllUlist Activities in the United States, constituted by
the House ot Representatifts in the Seventy-first Congress, with Repre-
sentative Hamilton Fish, Jr., of New York, as chairman. The latter CODl-
llittee reported to the House of RepresentatiTes, on January 11, 1931, that
the "principles and a1II8 of COJIDlUllists in Moscow and COJIIJIUIlists in Berlin,
Paris, London, Hew York, Los Angeles, Tokyo, and are the NlIB; they
stand on the __ platfora and advocate the sue principles, and all take
their orders tro. the COIIlDIllnist International, with headquarters in
Xoscow, and obey them implicitly;" and that the ultimate and final objective
of COIIUIUIli_ is to establish "one world union of soviet socialist republics.
with the capital at Koscow." (H. Rept. 2290, 1lst Congress, 3rd session.)
The committee's record. of information and data on Nazi, FaSCist, and
COIJIlIUllist activities was deriwd largely trom. the testiDloDT and exhibits
received at public and eDoutiva hearings; trom. the findings ot the statt
ot coDDlittee investigators; and t1"01l intoraation either TOlllllteered to the
committee by citizens and representatives ot private organizations desirous
ot aSSisting the cOllllllittee' s uncierta.ld.llg or supplied by agencies ot the
Federal and State governments in response to requests ot the committee for
specific intorution. Furtheraore, in obtaining tacts tor the guidance
ot its inquiry and in traming recOllD8ndations tor remedial legislative
actiOll, the committee had recourse to the results of the work ot two
earlier House cOllllittees that had conducted inftstigations ot COIIDlUDist
and Nazi activities; n..ly, the Special COIDlIittee to Investigate Co...
lIUIlist Activities in the United States, 7lat Congress, and the subcOJmDittee
ot the Committee on Immigration and liaturalization that had Jl8.de an in-
formal inftstigatiOD of Nazi activities in the latter part of the first
session ot the 73rd Congress. Upon a record thus cOllpiled, the committee
its report to the House ot RepresentatiTes on February 15, 1935,
embodying the findings and recommendations tor remedial legislation
derived trOll its inquiry (H. Rapt. 153, 74th Congress, 1st 88ssion). The
testimony taken at the public hearings was published and was su1:nitted to
the House as a part ot the report.
The Special Committee on Un-American Activities Authorized to Invasti-
gate Nazi Propaganda and Certain Other Propaganda Activities, sometimes
4
called the )(cCoI'llack-Dickstein Committee, after the na.s of its chair-
and and nce sbairun, is the forerunner of the Hou.. Un-A.erican Activi-
ties COIIIIIittee, established in 1936 as a special committee and now a
standing cOlUdttee of the HoulI8 of Representatifts.
The records of the Special COIIlIittee on Un"&'JI8rican Activities
Authorized to Investigate Nazi Propaganda Activities and Certain Other
Propaganda Activities, amount to approslaately twenty cub1.c feet; and
being subject to the orders of the House of Representati'Y8s cannot be
_de available to &n7 person except by express permission of the House
ot Representat1'Y8s.
- , ;' .;
CONFIDEi\fI'lAL
RECORDS OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES AUTHORIZED
TO INVESTIGATE NAZI PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES AND CERTAIN OTHER PROPAGANDA
ACTIVITIES
ADIIINISTBATIVE BECOBDS. Oct. 1933-Feb. 1935. 6 in.
This series cClIIprises correspondence ot cODUlittee investigators with
the cOlUldttee clerk respecting their otficial duties, clai.s tor com-
pensation .t sem.ces on behalf' ot the co.mittee, or the tenure ot
their positions with the cOllld.ttee, plus SOJIB ot their investigative
reports; surrendered identitication cards ot committee investigators;
TOUchers refiecting disburseJlBnts ot the committee tor services and
ottice supplies, together with accCJlllP8.D1iIlg correspondence; pa:rroll
data; correspondence ot Embers ot the cOJDJlittee with each other, with
the collJlittee clerk, or with Federal agencies, touching the agenda of
the cOJllJldttee, plus related papers; -.oranda ot the chairan, Repre-
.ntati" John W. KeCorM.ck, to the cOlllmi:ttee clerk, conveying in-
structions to the latter on cOlllJldttee business; correspondence of
Representatiw Saauel Dickstein with the Rules COlIDd.ttee regarding the
heariDg OIl H. Res. 198, 13rd Congress, by the Rules Caudttee; prints
ot Hou.. and Senate resolutions relating to the cormittee or the sub-
ject utter ot its inquiry; H. Res. 24, 15, 143, 148, 186, 198, 199,
424, 13rd Congress; S. Res. 103, 13rd Congress) H. Con. Res. 1, 11, 14,
19, 13rd Congress; and press releases. Arranged b7
name ot indindua1 or by' subjeot.
REPORT OF '!'BE COJO{['l'mE. Feb. 1935. 2 in.
Superseded drafts ot the report ot the cOlllDd.ttee to the House of
Representatiws (H. Rept. 153, 14th Congress, 1st session), ellbod1ing
the cOJlJllittee's findings and recOlllDlendations stemming from the inTes-
tigation conducted pursuant to H. Res. 198, 13rd Congress; and seTera1
sets ot page proots of the report. Without arrange_nt.
TBlNSGRIPT OF '!'HE EXECUTIVE HElRINGS OF THE CO_IT'lEE. April 26,
1934-Dec. 29, 1934. 9 in.
StenographiC transcript of the executive hearings of the comdttee,
held interlli.ttently between April 26, 1934, and December 29, 1934.
Included in a VPewritten copy, prepared by a shorthand reporter, of
that section of the transcript recording the executive hearings in
Los Angeles, Calif., on August 3, 6, and 8, 1934. The transcript is
in crono1ogical eequenoe.
II
TRANSCRIPT OF THE PUBLIC BEARINGS OF THE COMMITtEE, June 5, 1934-
Dec. 29, 1934. 2 ft.
Stenographio transcript of the public hearings of the committee,
held intermittently between June 5, 1934, and December 29, 1934.
6
1
-
2
Included is a coW of a section of the transcript containing penciled
correctiona of testimony furnished by 1I1ss Jlargaret Kerr, Secreta.ry-
of the Better ....rican Federation, Los Angeles, Calif., and by Daniel W.
llacColWlck, Ca.issioner of Immigration and Naturalization, plus note-
books of shorthand reporters at the hearings. The transcript is in
chronological sequence.
REPOR'lS OF INVESTIGATORS OF THE COMMITTEE. Nov. 1934.
It in. .2 .
'!'his series comprises reports tranSlJlitted to the cOlllDd.ttee by its
investigators, embodying findings derived froa their investigative
activitie. pursuant to H. BeS. 198, 73rd Congress. 'l'he reports docu-
_nt inftstigative activities of H. Robert Carroll, William F. Lucitt,
Emile Nondle, Willian Reinhardt, Edward F. Ronan, Florence D. Shreve,
and other coamittee investigators not identified except by ByBlbols.
Arranged alphabetically by ne.. of investigator or by symbol
designation.
SUBPOEtUS ISSUED BY THE CO)o{[Tl'EE. Jlay 1934-Nov. 1934. Sin. 6
This aerie. consists of subpoena. issued under the authorlty of the
cOllllittee, swmaoning particular individuals to appear before it at a
specified and place to tumiah testimony and in so. cases to
produce speCific docUII8Dts bearing on its inquiry. Included are re-
ceipts signed by witnesses appearing before the committee, acknowledg-
ing the payaent of witness fee. or the retum of records obtained
troa the. by' subpoenas. Arranged alphabetically by n8JM of individual.
CORRESPONDENCE OF REPRESENTATIVE CHlRLES KRlJIER OF CALIFORNIl. No.
1933-)(&1' 1936. 9 in. L.
This aeries comprises correspondence of Representati'9'8 Charles
of CalifOrnia, who served as secretary of the co-tttee. The
correspondence deals with subjects both related and unrelated to the
cOJllJlittee's inquil"T or to the subject atter thereof. '-ong the rec-
ords of this series are correspondence with citisens, including con-
stituents of Repreaentatift (ramer, and representatives ot private
organization., cOJRenting on the task committed to the cODllllittee by'
H. Bes. 198, 73rd Congress, ottering to the cOlllJli.ttee information
deemed rele'ftJ1t in aid ot its inquiry, .eking eaploylMnt as statf
members ot the cOlllJlittee, cOJllllUllicating views on proposed legislation
betore the House to combat subversive activities, or requesting copies
of the cOllllllittee's publications; correspondence with members of the
committee and others regarding the agenda of the committee; corre-
spondence with committee investigators regarding their otficial duties;
and personal correspondence. For a list of folder hearings showing
the arrangement and eontents of this series, see Appendix A.
7
GENERAL CORRESPONDENCE. Oct. 1933-Apr. 1935. 7 in. 8
This series consists ot correspondence with citisens, representa-
tiTeS ot priY8te organizations and ot Federal agencies, and members
of Congress, requesting copies ot the publisbed hearings and reports ot
the cOllllittee, asking intoraation from the cOllllllittee on subjects ....
braced within its inqui17, volunteering to the coJllllittee information
deemed relevant in aid ot its inqui17, or ottering cOlllll8nts on tbe
inquiry itself or on the subject matter thereot. Included is corre-
spondence to RepresentatiTe Samuel Dickstein from citizens, ottering
cOlll8nts on Bepr.sentatiTe Dickstein's radio address ot October 17,
1933, in which he announced the purpose and scope ot his proposed
intor.l investigation ot Nasi propaganda b;r the House Committee on
Immigration and Naturalization, ot which be was chairun. Arranged
alphabetica1l7 by' name ot correspondent or by subject.
lfAIN CORRFSPONDENCE FILE. Sept. 1933-Jan. 1936. 6 ft. .2
Tbis aeries consists mainly ot correspondence trom citisens and
representatives of private organizations volunteering intonnation con-
cerning particular indi:dduals or organizations which the correspond-
ents telt to be relevant to the inquiry entrusted to the committee ty
H. Res. 198, 73rd Congress, and ought to be presented to the committee
in aid of its undertaking. Also in the series are correspondence,
accompanied with related documents, trom Federal and State agencies
tumishing, in response to requests of the committee, specitic intor-
_tion concerning certain individuals whose activiti.s ....re under the
scrutiny ot the cOllDdttee; correspondence from _lIbers of Congress
aubllitting tor the cOllJllittee'" consideration items ot intorll&tion
deemed releY811t to its inquiry; correspondence tro. oitizens trans-
mitting tor the cOlllJllittee's attention reterence materials and alleged
propaganda documents; docUMntary evidence obtained by cOlBlllittee or
staff _bers concerning particular persons or organizations 8\1S-
pected ot Nam. activities; memoranda ot Representative John W.
IIcCorack to the secret&17- or clerk ot the cOJlUlittee, transmitting
instructions tor the preparation of replies to certain letters re-
ceived b;r the committee; correspondence and MJIlOranda ot the secretary"
ot the cOlllllittee, stemming from the discharge ot hi. otticial duties;
and some adBinistrative records ot the committee. For a list ot
tolder headings showing the arrange_nt and subject utter ot this
eeries, see Appendix B.
DtllORJIlTI<!UL JIlTEBUIS OF THE COJOaTTEE. 1933-1934. 1 tt.
This series cOilprises intormational _terials relating to Nazi and
CoBlUllist actirlties, collected b;r the cOllllittee tor reference pur-
poses but Dot entered in i til record. as .xhibits. For a list ot tolder
beadings shor.l.ng the arrangement and subject matter ot this series,
..e Appendix C.
-
8
10
EXHIBITS OF THE COMI.{IT'lEE. 1933-193h. 1 ft. 11
This series consists of exhibits incorporated in the committee's
record. The series includes correspondence and memoranda of individ-
uals and organizations, together with accoJlpanying papers, documenting
transactions subject to the scrutiny of the committee by virtue of
i H. Res. 198, 73rd Congress; and also domestic and foreign publications
po.neying Nazi and COIIIIIlt1Jlist propaganda. 50_ exhibits are missing.
Arranged nUJlll8ricall;y, in the order received in evidence.
FILFS OF WILLUJ( OODtBYPELLEY, LEADER OF THE SILVER SHIRTS OF
OERICA. Aug. 1923-)(a;y 193h. 2 ft. 12
This series consists of correspondence and other records obtained
by the cOlUldttee fro. the tiles of Willi.. Dudley Pelley, Leader of
tbe Silftr Shirt. of .laerica, in the course of its investigation of
Nazi acti'ri.ties. The aeries cOliprises personal correspondence of
Willi.. Dudle;y Pelley, particularl;y with ._bars of his faaiq; cor-
responMnce and other records stelllling troll his acti'Vities as a pro-
fessional writer; and correspondence and other records documenting
activities of Willi.. Dudle;y Pelle;y in organizing and administering
the attairs of the Silftr Legion ot America. For a list ot tolder
headings showing the arrange.nt and subject matter of this series,
see Appendix D.
PUBLICATIOIS EDJaNED BY '!'HE COKMITmE PURSUANT TO HOUSE RESOWTION
198, 73rd CONGRESS. Oct. 1933-Dec. 193h. 2 It. .ll
Thi. series cmsists ot copies of do.estic and foreign newspapers,
_gazines, and other publications in circulation in the United States,
examined by the committee for evidence of Nazi and Communist propa-
ganda pursuant to H. Res. 198, 73rd Congress. The series includee
publications such as The Vigilante, Chicago, lll.; A.rikas Deutsche
Post, New York, N. Y.; Deutsche Zeitung, New York, R. I.; DeUtscher
We"C'&ut and Beobackter, New tork, R. t., National Free Press (Fre1e
Presee', Chicago, Ill. J Die Gartenlaube, BerlIn, Gerun;YJ and also
Jew:tsh publications in EngliSh treat1Dg largel;y of Nazi propaganda
in the United States and of Jewish life in Geruny under the Hitler
regiae. Without arrangeaent
. , ..' .
. . .,'
9
-
APPENDIX A
List of Folder Headings Showing the Arrangement and
Subject Matter of the Correspondence of Representatift
Charles Ira_r, of California
'Allen, H.
American Coalition (John B. Trevor, Pres.)
u.rican P'ederation of Labor
A..erican League AgaiBst War and FasciDl
AMrican Legion
AnOB)'1IOUS
Argo Lodge No. bl3, B'nai B'rith
Associated Far.ers of California, Inc.
Bauer, Wred
Berry, Mrs. Jolm A.
Burkan, Nathan
Carroll, R. Robert
Casar, Harlow
Clark, Walter C.
ClevelaDd CbaIlber of COJIIIlerce
Cohen, Phillip
Cohn, L. H.
Congregati<m Beth Israel, Los Angeles
Cozsens, Walter L.
Crbs, John J.
Daughters of the American Revolution
Dickinson, R. E.
Dickstein, Hon. Samuel
nteabled A_rican Veterans
FaUt, Richard S.
Gans, Robert J.
Halsted, S. Hazard
Holden, Benedict K.
Hughes, G. W.
Huntoon, Vinan
Jacobson, Carl
Jacqueline, Bernice
Iuinsk;y, Louis
lane, H. F.
Katz, Charles J.
ienDT, Robert ...
Iirby', Thomas
K1einberger, Ray
; .
10
Kramr, Hon. Charles
Lansing, L. S.
Lewis, LeoD
Los Angeles COIIUId.ttee to Deteat the Kr_r Bill
Lucitt, WilliUl F.
Mclrdle, Ruskin
IIcCormack, Hon. Jolm 11'.
McCrillis, Arthur M.
JlagD1n, Edgar
tiller, W11li8.11 T.
Motion Picture Industr,y
1Iunn, Henry T.
National Council ot Jn1.eh Wo_n
Ne1l1on, Iilli8ll W.
O'Donnell, Stephen
Pacht, I .....c
'arlit, Capt. G. 11'.
Pontius, D. W.
Prine., Frank J.
Randolph, Frank P.
Reilly, Edward A.
1tesnich, S8JlUel
Rosenberg, Maurice D.
Roth, Lester W.
S&7lin, George
Sirovich, Hon. William I.
Silver, Philip W.
SiSBOn, Vinton Earl (Mrs.)
Steele, Walter S.
Stone, Fred S.
Un!ted Proyes8ive NeW's
Ve'tirus 0 Foreign War8
Vogt, Jobh.. H.
Ward, 1I&x R.
Williams, Robert R.
Winter8, Sa
Young Men's Council ot the United States
KiecellaDT
-> --
\, ... "",i ':. .1
11
APPENDIX B
List ot Folder Headings Showing the Arrangement
and Subject )(atter ot the Main Correspondence File
Achinstein, HyMn (Nazi propaganda)
Adalia, A. M.
Ada.., Emst (Nazi activities)
Adler, Bert (Nazis' counter-boycott)
Adler, C.
Adler, David
Ahearn, Edward
Ambruster, Howard W. (Geram I. G. Organization chart)
A.rican Coalition, Wash., D. C.
'1'he .&.erican Hebrew
IiBrlcan JeWish COiiimittee
'!'he !aricen Legion
berieus Society, Inc.
AlIOS, S. F. E. (Dr. Otto H. F. Vollbehr)
Amster, Henry
Amster, Ludwig Dr.
Anix, Albert
AnOD.JIROU.
Anti-Det....tion League, Ill•
.lnti-Hazi CoBlittee, Philadelphia, Pa.
Arutrong, S. '1'. Dr. (Dr. Ignatz'!'. Griebel)
Arusbeni, L. B. (Hornburg)
Aryan Book Store, San Francisco, Cal.
Babcock, Mrs. Garrison
Bacharach, Hon. lsac
Bachllan, Dr. M. E.
Backman, I. B.
Bader, M. (Walter lappe)
BaJaer, '!'ho_s S. (Dr. Otto H. F. Vollbehr)
Baldwin, Nina
Balzer, Richard H.
Barr, Mrs. A. J. (Aliens in U. S.)
Bauer, )(ax 1.
Basil, Alexander (Panama R.R. and S. S. Co.)
Baum, Alvan E.
BaUDlan, Morton A.
BaT Citie. Federation ot '1'eaChers
Bazell, Soloan N. (Mrs. George Boden.chats)
12
Beamish, Richard J. (Silver Shirts ot A_rica)
Beatty, John Vorgan ISilver Shirts ot America)
Beck, Hon. James 11. ("The Plan in Action," by Earnest Sincere)
Behrun, S. N. (lati-Seldtic prorganda)
BelTille, Illinois, (A. J. lIuste
Benar, Fred I. (Arbeiter Kranken It Sterbe-Kasse, Cin., Ohio)
Benezet, Louis p.
Beran, Frances Hottun
Berg, Paula
Berpann, larl (The Aaerioan Illustrated News, Berlin)
Berkson, Ja.as (Georg SchilfEt)
Berlow, JlelTille J. (Liggett and Tobacco col.)
Bemo, L. E.
Bernstein, Rerun W. (Veterans ot Austrian and Gerun Wars)
Better .A._rica Federation
Binder, Martin
Bixby, Stattord (Mrs. Kate Crane Garts; Upton Sinclair)
Blair, E. J. (Dr. Griebl)
Blankenhorn, V. D. ('!'he Nation, NOT. 29, 1933: tlNazi Politics in A_rica")
Blooa, Kilton (Racial prejucied: N. Y. ArJI1" Reserve)
Bloc., Paul A (Babson' 8 Washington ReportSI Fascia)
B111ll, L. L. (NaZi fiterature)
Bluaenteld, Hans
Boas, Prot. Franz
Badman, Theodore (tlProtocols ot the Wise Men ot Ziontl )
Boehne, Hon. John W.
Bolhoftr, Harl')" (Use ot the swastika on post cards)
'olton, A. F.
Bonnel, R. C. (Jobs tor Germans)
Boone, Joseph A.
Boorstin, S&IlU.el A. (Silver Shirts ot A_rica)
Bratman, William (Anti-8emitic propaganda)
Brandon, Tom (Film and Photo League; German fila)
Brandt Publishing Co. (-The Plan in Action"f by Ramest Sincere)
Brasch, Arthur H. {2alitornia StaatszeitungJ
Brasch, Beran (Friederich Heiss)
Brickner, Barnett R. (Counter boycott ot the boycotters ot Gerlll&ll goods)
Brill, Joseph (Geran propaganda: "Truth about Germany4')
Brooklyn Comldttee ot Allied Protessions to Aid Victims ot German Fascism
Brooks, Lawrence G.
Broomfield, Mrs. C. H.
Brown, Lt. Col. Ames To. (Sgy. Gottlieb Haas)
Browne, Clayton D.
Brownstein, Albert
Buck, William L.
BulIpass, James R.
13
Burnham, E. (Motion pieturel "Hitler's Reign of or -A Nazi
Venaee in Amerieatt )
Burnstine, Nor_n (The tiving Age Vagazinel tlThe)fan Behind Hitler tt)
Butler, Mrs. Cassandra t.
Caiserman, H. M. (Canadian Jewish Congress: Anti-Se.tic propaganda)
Calitano, KiOOael (Painting depicting Dr. Einstein, titled -The
IgnOllin)r ot the XIth Century")
Cantor, Eddie
Cantor, 1Ianuel
Caplin, F. S.
Carllicbael, Mrs. Julia
Carpenter, Rev. W. J.
Carter, Jom E. (Silver Shirts ot A_rica)
Car'brright, Nan (C01Dl1unist activities)
Cassel, G.
Cayton, Horace
Cener, Hon. Emanuel (hti-Semtic propagandaI "Turn on the Light,- bT
George F. Wood1rard)
Chaitldn, Jacob (Anti-Semitic propaganda in the mails)
Chaabers ot Commerce
Chatldn,R. (Anti-Semitic propaganda)
Clippings - German newspapers
Clippings -newspapers
Cochran, Hon. John J. (Operations of the Communist Party)
Cott•• Rudolph I. '
Cohane, Louis Starfield (Economic boycott at GaranT)
Cohen, llron A.
Cohen, A. I. (The Galahad Press, Asheville, N. C.)
Cohen, David
Cohen, JerI7 (Anti-SeJDitic propaganda)
Cohen, Julill8 (Dr. Hall, Charlotte, N. C.)
Cohen, R.
Cohen, Will18.J1 W'. (Jlrs. Griebl)
Cohn, Nathan (Time Magazine: "Nazi Hunt")
Coles, L. F. (Negro lynchings)
Coli1l, Feliz (A_rican citizenahip tor Nazis)
Collins, Hon. Sail. L.
Cone, Dai8y N. (Wilhelm Schrage)
Copeland, Hon. Royal S. (The New Masses)
Cramm, Virginia (Newspaper cUppingl HWe are tor Hitler")
Crowther, Saauel
Culbertson, William S.
Cullinan, John J. (Germans employed on AlII8rican vessels)
Cullum, J&JI8S P.
The Cultural Herald (Antl-Bemitic propaganda)
Daniel, LX
Danziger, S&1mel
CONFiDENTiAL
Daub, Oscar (Baron Maurice de Roths'chlld)
Dauziger, Juliet (Dr. George W. Richards)
Davidson, HerBl8J1 (Hazi propagandaJ Mr. Muller)
Davis, Frank p. et al (Suspension ot illlJl1gration laws to permit
entry ot GerJlllll refugees)
D. A. 11'. A. (Geran-American Protectift Alliance)
DeCasseres, Benjamin (George Sylftster Viereck)
DeGroat, C. H.
DePriest, Hon. Oscar
Dever, La. 1. (Nasi activities)
Devlin, Arthur J. (Rep. John 11'. McCormack)
Deny, Thomas
Dewitt Clinton High School (Nazi activities)
Di8.JlOIld, David (Gus Budeck)
Dingell, John D.
Djaagarott, George (Comun1st Party)
Dorr, Rheta Childe (Russian espionage)
Douglass, )loses Hale (Propaganda)
Dutch, E. V.
Easley, Ralph M.
Egan, Lieut. Charles (Francis Harold Gallagher; Charles Sotes)
Ei.-.n, Harry
Elikann, Adele (CODlJIUIli8m)
Ellman, Samuel (George Sylyester Viereck)
Epstein, Leon L.
Eykman, John (North German Lloyd Line)
Fabian, Harry (George Sylvester Viereck)
Feinberg, Rabbi Abraham L.
Feller, Daniel (.&.nti-8ell1.t1c Propaganda)
Feitelberg, Abraha. J.
Field, David E.
Fine, SalllUel (Use ot the swastika by' the Pictorial Review)
Finkel, Sidney (Anti-Semtic propaganda)
First Blair County National Bank, Tryone, Pa.
Fish, Hon. HaJI1lton
Fishllan, Abner
Flsk, George L.
Floyd, Arthur H. (Committee'. work)
Fossett, Frank A.
Foster, Phil B.
Foulkes, Hon. George ("The :tIenace ot Hitleri_ in America.)
Forward., The
France (Political situation)
Frankel, Nathan H.
Franklin, K. M.
li'razer, Guernsey ( Communist ,kiarty)
Freas, Grace II
Frem.n, J. George (Jewish Veteran)
Freed, Allie
Freedman, Clarence S.
Freedman, J. L. (Libration)
Freeman, Louis N•.
hend, G.
Friedberg, Benjamin S.
Friedman, Oscar
Friedrich, Adolph (Nazi and Ant-Sellitic propaganda: International
News Company)
Frisch, A. L. (Nazi activities)
Froehlich, C. IC. (Genaan Society)
Fry, Varian (Philip Johnson)
Gaffney, T. St. John (An1"'t-Sem1tislll in Germany: "The facts in the
case of the German National Socialists against German Jewry
and Its Political EconoJlic Control of the Country")
Gauvreau, Emil
Gelman, Sara (Count Von Lucmow; Captain Lauderback)
Genat, Louis J. (Anti-Semitic propaganda)
Gerber, Harold
Geran lErican ObserY8r
Mlbert, B. Eugene
Gilbert, Daniel A.
Ginsberg, Joseph B. (Friends of New Gerany)
Gladstone, Joseph
Gladstone, lIaurice B. (AJlerican citizens Toting in the Saar P1ebiscit)
Glazier, Capt. • • •• (Jackson lIartindell)
Gli.., B. (Nazi "Truth about Germany" and other pamphlets)
GluckSJl8n, Joseph (Antt-5emitin.)
Gold, Samuel (American Observer)
Goldberg, Abraa
Goldberg, G. (Prof. Florcken)
GoldP;erg, Joseph (Anti-Sell1tin)
Goldberg, lIiles H. (Anti-Defamation League)
Goldblatt, Rabbi Maurice (Hertha Rottieper)
Golcltnberg, H. C. (Anti-8em1tiaa: Le Patriote, lIontreal, Canada)
Goldish, A. II. (Activities of a Gerun student at llarietta College)
Goldman, Benjamin F. (Nazi Propaganda)
Goldman, lIorr1s I.
Goldman, Irvin
Goldman, Irving L. (United Jewish Political League)
Goldstein, llaxwell H. (National Council of the Steuben SocietT of
America; George Bergschneider)
Goodman, C.
- .
16
CONFH)Ef':rfIAI:
Goodman, Hon. Edward" .
Goodman, Henry J. (Dr. Otto B. F. Vollbehr)
Gordon, Rabbi Julius (Rep. John J. Cochran)
Gorman, lIrs. Adolph (Mrs. Lellis B. Rose)
Gorske, Paul (Paul Schmidt)
Gort, Horan
Grant, Charles
Greenberg, David 11. (Anti-Semitis.: tiThe Cahillatl
)
Greenbaum, Vax (Counter boycott against boycotters of German goods)
Greening, C.
GregoI7, Isabel
Griffith, Ja.mes
Grigsby, Elizabeth (The Silver Shirts of America)
Gross, Arthur J. (Boston Better Business Bureau)
GroI!lS, David (Nazi propaganda)
Gross, Francis
GrosSll.an, Florence
Gulden, Royal S. (Anti-Def'aaation League: sale of' tiThe Conquest of
a Continent,tI by )(adison Grant)
Haas, Frederick C.
Haber, Abraham (Nazi propaganda)
Haef'fely, Mrs. I. (Communist activities)
Haferkamp, Willi&JI
Hageann, .lalia (Hew York hearingsl Ernst Schmidt)
Hahn, Jacob H. (Staats-zeituDf)
Hall, Albert (Nazi propaganda
Halperin, Dr. I. M. (Anti-Bemitim)
Hamburger, Irwin (Deutsche Zeitung)
Hammill, Gordon Willitt
Hancock, Hon. Clarence E. (Nazi activities in Washington, D. C.)
Hansen, W. (Cincinnati Enquirer: "Fact. and Prejudices")
Harris, Arthur H.
Hartstein, Benjamin
Haselbauer, Albina A.
Hauf', Joseph
Hawkins, Col. C. E. (Communist activities)
Healey, Joseph (Alias Raymond Healey)
Heinrich, Paul (Seizure of' hi. side arms and ammnnitiona by the committee)
Beitmann, Henry
Hene.n, Harlow J. (tiThe Growth of Executive Power in Germany")
Hennings, Joseph P. (Nazi propaganda)
Remes, Morris (Gerl&8llS in the employ- of' the United States Lines)
Herple, Vax (Nazi activities)
Herrann, H. R. (Geran Cultural Society; lIr. and )(rs. Herman
lluerrle at al.)
"
-, --'"' "
17
-
CONFa)EN'fiAL
Hershoft, Henry (Detwold Sahm.; General Motors Corporation)
Hesse, Las (John S. 1Io0re)
Hill, Wolfram (Propaganda):
Hirsch, Albert
Hirsch, Nathan
Hitchcock, Leo L.
Hitler, Adolph ("Jewish Grave of Hitler's Grandfather")
Hochtelcier, Julius (Heinz Spanknoebel)
Hoenig, IIose& H. (Council ot Young Israel and Young Israel Synagogue
Organizations: Silver Shirts of Alerica)
Hoerman, Carl (llien activities in the United States)
Hof'tJll8!l, S. (Broadcast of a Nazi radio progru in the Un!ted States
Oftr radio station WEAF)
Hollander, Jack (Anti-Nazi propaganda)
Hollander, Jacob H. (German exchange students; Dr. Schoenelll8!ln)
Hoo'ftr, Hon. J. Edgar (Heinz Spanmoebel! Swastika League ot America;
and other subjects)
Hopkins, James F.
Horowitz, )forris (Jewish radio Nazi radio programs)
HOrwitz, I. (JfilJrauker W'ochenblat) .
Honritz, Louis (Non. HiLiil!1ton FIsb)
Hoya, Charles E.
Hull, HOIl. Cordell (SOviet espionage)
Hungarian Socialist (Ferencz Gross)
H'UDter, Edward H. (Witness)
Hyau, Mrs. Millie
Ibbeken, IIrs. Ella (Letter from Oldenburg, Germany)
, Idmoor, Peter
r.d.gration to the U. S. (The New York Herald Tribune, )(aT 17, 1934.
Polish refugees in Cuba seeking entry into U. S. )
Inlow, J. Johnson
International Juridical lssociation (Isadore PoUer>
. Intemationallfews Company, New York, N. Y.
Iarman, Rabbi Ferdinand)f. (Rep. John J. Cochran)
Jacobs, Hon. SUIlel (Member of Parliament, )fontreal, Canada. Anti-
S.lliti.. in Canada)
Jacobson, Charles
Jacobson, Edward Z. (The Wolkot Tolerance Society, Inc.)
Jaeobstein, )f. (Mrs. EJIIDR )f. Focone; )(rs. F. D. Allexander)
Jamaica Press
Jandorf, H. (Advertiselll8nts of German Hotels in the United States;
Ober....rgau)
Jay, Lulu (ColUllUDist Jews)
Jewish Forward
tile Journal
':. ). t -
18
Jewish TeleteaPhic AgeDcl
JeWish War eterMs
Jobn8On, Hiram w.
Jones, David L.
Joseph, Charles G. (Anti-Semitism)
Joseph, Rae H. (Hazi propaganda)
Kahn, Louis
Kaiser, Joseph S. (Anit-Semitisa)
Iralb, S. Willi.a, (Poster.I "Elect Haunann")
Katz, Norman (Cancellation ot Rep. Dickstein's Speech OD "The Nazi
J(ove_nt in the United State")
Kautan, Julius J. (DellOcrat Chronicle, Rochester. Nazi activities
in Rochester)
Kavanagh, J. J. (Hational Conterence ot Jews and Christians)
Keith, Richard .
Ielley, Frank Reuss
Kes88lD8ier, Rudolph T. (John Edward RawlinS} Jlathew S. Ermer}
William Dudley Pelley)
Kiely, J. J. (Heinz SpanlcnoebeU
King, Willard B.
King, Eugene (Nazi propaganda)
Ilrsclmer, William N.
n.Hnger, H. D. (Anti-Semitic and pro-nordic propaganda)
nein, Eugene (Friends ot New
Ilein, Julius (Letter ot a GerJl8ll in Berlin)
neiD, Lint, Julius (Nazi propaganda in Illinois)
D.einteld., Leonard F.
i:loeb, Hon. Frank L.
Kober, Sumel (Prince Louis Ferdinand, son ot the tOlWtr crown
Prince ot GerJUln)")
Koelble, Alphonse G. (Friends ot New Germany)
Keedel, Silton E. (Friends ot Hew Geramy)
koke, Otto C.
Kopplemann, Hon. Herman p. (Speech ot Hon. Louis T. McFadden)
lostegen, J. R. (Nazi activities in Philadelphia)
Krumholz, .lnthon;y
Kruppa, Friedrich (arl (Fritz Gissible; Walter Kappe)
Kub, Mrs. Jennie
Krant, J.
Kraus, J. J.
lrier, Edward
Krisow, Max (Jewish celebrities)
Kruger, Henry (Nazi activities in Chicago, Ill.)
Kruger, I. Anti-SeJdtiSll)
Kuhner, S&IIt1el A. (Silver Shirts ot berica):
19
L. (Letter fro. Paris, France, concerning Bev. E. E. iUrnerJ
and other subjects)
Labor Depart_nt (Doug Brinkle7)
Laason, lIrs. H. J. (Nazi propaganda)
Lang, Karl
Lasell, H. D.
Lazar, Philip M. (Black Tom B4stJ Ernst F. Hantstaengel)
Lazard, Ida S. (Council of Jewish WOllen)
Lazare, BenjamiD. activities)
Lazaron, JIorris S. (S. Res. 120, 73rd Congreas; Rep. Sallne1 Dickstein)
'-bovsley, Edward H. (Nazi activities)
Lee, I'7 L.
Lee, Bayaond H. (Bazi activities)
lef'kow1tz, Samuel S.
Lellllan, Berthold (Fri Gissibl, George Sy-lvester Vierick et al;
Samel UnterJR81'8r)
LebJaan, W. G.
Leiae, Dvaid (Bazi activitiesJ Frederick T. Birchall)
Lashin, A. (Nazi activities)
Leslie, Lucie R.
Leve, Lewis Hayd
Lewis, Mrs. -
Liberty, S.
Licht, E_nuel H. (Walter DarreJ Jladall Von Trott su Solz; lew York
Herald Tribune)
Liebenan, Reran {Jewish War Veterans)
Liebert, Ben
LiMbarger, Paul Myron .
Lip.ius, A. S. (Geraan exchange students at the UniTersity of Georgia)
Livingston, Julius (Silver Shirts of AlIerica)
Lober, Louis (Counter boycott of bOfCotters ot German goods)
Loeb, I ....c Anderaon (Fritz Gissibl)
Loebl, Ernest
Long, William P'rew
Lore, Ludwig
Lorel, Robert
Lowtt, Robert )lorss (American Committee .lgainet Fascist Oppression
In Garany)
Luedtke, Hellmt
Luhrs, Herl8l1 L.
Luneveley, F. (Saturday Evening Poet Editorial, June 9, 1934:
. "*nding 0\1r o;n BUslnesei )
Mahoney, John J.
lfalln, Benj8Jlin
JIalthias, Ernest
JlandelbaUll, llarcus (Anti-Nazis ot America)
20
)(argo}.1s, Mac (Dr. John D. Leach; Elisabeth Ronan)
Jlargulies, Morris (ZiOllist. Organization of .America)
Marcus, C. W. (Rep. Louis T. McFadden)
Martin, Lawrence
Jlatt8on, Fred
)fat.z, JIyron H.
Kay, Eva
Mayer, F. W.
Mayer, Jasper J. (Jack Preiss)
McDonald, J. B. (Heinz Von Nobel)
McFadden, Hon. Louis T.
llcXeough, William J. (Cormnunist activities)
McLane, J olut C.
KcVey, J. H.
If.ende1sobn, Vorris
llenendez, Joseph C. (The Catholic Worldl "The Nazi International,"
by Albert Brandt)
Mercn, Femand (X. Messager de New-York)
JIe1er, Erwin R.
Meyer, Prof. G. (comnnmist activities; foreign bankers)
Meyer, Julius (aSecret Nazi Plots in IJ.S. Exposed in the Daily Worker" ;
Hans Spanknoebe1)
lIeyers, Harry (Dr. Von Graff)
Millard, Charles D.
»:iller, George J. *,ft-••"t.'In-'.' xV••o-.)
tiller, J. ("The Brain Tnlst," by H. L. 'Mencken>
)(iller, J. M.
Viller, Julian (Rep. John J. Cochran)
)(iller, Michael (Silver Shirts ot America)
)(itcbell, Morris
Jf1tcbell, \f. (German press)
Voftett, J. R. (Richard Von Kuehl..nn)
Moley, Prot. RaY1lond (wlIoley Asks Ouster of IqbtoFrom U.S.")
Morning Journal
IOrris, Sall181 (Rep. Louis T. VcFadden)
Munday, Lt. Col. Joseph .l.S.
1Iu.rray, J Gha
Jlutschinski V. Doubleday Doran, R. H. 1I&cy 8£ Co., Inc. et a1 (Libel ..
ction)
Najer, Victor V.
Harens, Helen
The Nation (Issue of November 29, 19331 "Nazi Polities in America"1
National Defense Through Patriotic Education, National Society,
Daughters of the A.erican Revolution (CoJDJll1Dist activities)
National Free Press (Anti-Nazi speeches of Rep. Saael Dickstein)
21
National Guard, 80 C.ntre Stre.t, New York, N. Y. (K1litary concert
and ball ot Geran national Guardsman)
National Republic (Walter Steele)
NichOlson, J.SS8 I.
NaV Departaent
I.ilsen, Franklin _
N.lIIon, E. (Pro-Nazi rally ot May 17, 1934, at Jladison Square Garden)
N.lson, Roscoe C. {Nasi activities)
Nesbet, Walter (Bazi activities)
Beu.ister, Carl
lew York City (Basis working as waitar. in New York City hotels)
New York Hearings (Radio broadcasts ot the New York City hearings ot
the cOJlllllitte.J newspaper clippings)
New York llirror (Walter Winchell's colulII1 ot April 29, 1934:
tineCl&! aid to Nazia in NeW' York)
licholl, Alexander)(. (C0IIIDIUl1.8t activities)
Nordacs Club, Inc. (Nazi, activities)
Non-S.ctarian Anti-Nazi teague (S8IIIlel Untermeyer)
O'Brien, Hon. Tho_s J.
O'Connor, Mrs. F. J. (COIDIIIUJlist activities)
O'Dell, Lester D. (Investigation conducted by the cOJDBd.ttee)
018on, C. N. (Shorthand reporter)
O'Reilly, 1Il111.. (Swastika sign on rst cards)
Ostreld, )lorry H. (S.....l Untermeyer
Ostrom, Ralph A.. (CollDll1llist activities)
Pamitser, Jack
Parsenbyl. SUIIlel (Dr. Ignaz T. Griebl)
Parsky, • I.
Parsons, H. S. (-Fairplay tor Gerany," by E. Collinson)
Partak, Albert W. (Expert witness)
Patriotic Publishing Co.
Patterson, )(rs. Harriet W. (Nazi propaganda)
Patton, Robert Caldwell (American Vigilance Alliance)
Payne, George Henry (Organization ot a committee iB opposition
to Hitler)
Peue, Kajor Frank (CoJlllllUD1.st and Nazi activities)
Pennew1.ts . Robert (N.Ai activities)
Perkins, (Secretary ot Labor)
Perkins, Lynn ,. (Nazi activitie.)
Petron, Jom D..
Peyser, Hon. Theodor. A..
Pheeny, Harold A.
Phillips, Alex
Pike, Norman
. "
I
'.- ,
22
---
PUtch, Irving (Ltberatio.J
Pincus, J. N. (Heinz Spanknoebel)
Pinter, A_s
Pollock, James K. (Hitler decrees on the tora and fUnction ot the
GeI'll8.n govenment)
Poaner, Krs.· Heniiette
Post Ottice Department
Postal Telegraph Compal\T, Asheville, N. C.
Potter, Irvin L.
Powers, Hon. D. Lane
Prager, "'i111_
Previn, A. G.
Price, Charles R. (United States marshal, Western District of
North Carolina)
Prince, Frank J. (Det10tt TOn Simpson; Garrison Beach; Gulden)
Pritikin, lm••I. R.
Professors (Invitations to testify)
Propper, R. (Silver Shirts ot A_rica)
Proskauer, Joseph K.
Public Hearings (Requests tor published copies of hearings)
Purcell, lfllliaa Gray (Silver Shirts ot A_rica; George Starr White)
Quackenbush, C. C.
Quinn, John N. (Anti-Bemti8ll: "The Jew - Why- Blue Germany?")
trabinowitz, Ezekiel (American League tor the Detense ot Jewish Rights)
Rader, Isadore
Raftaeli, J. E.
Rattalonch, George
lIatf'erty, As...b1yman John J. (New Jerse7 legislature)
Capt. P. L. (Shipping master ot the Haaburg American Line)
Rainey, Hon. Henry T.
Randolph, Hon. Jennings (COIDJIlUDist actinties in West Virginia)
Bando1ph, Kabel
Rauschberg, Anson
. Razon)cy, Cecilia (Anti-8eDlitisa)
Radio Corporation ot A_rica (Radiogram f'rom Moscow to the Dai1l Worker,
New Yorke
Reade, ](rs. Charles A.
Reed, Hon. James A.
Reid, Jack
1leiDhardt, Gunther
ResDer, )(rs. J8sephine
Bed, George
Rice, Dr. Cbarles D.
Richards, Bernard G. (Jewish Council ot Greater Nell' York; Friends
of' GerJlBllY)
Ridder, Victor, B. (Staats-Herold Corporation)
Riegel, 0. if. (Nazi propaganda)
23
-..
Ritz" Joel
Roberts, Half
Robins, Dr. David (Anti-SeDdtiSIIl)
Robinson, David (Oregon Jewish Emergency Oommittee; Nazi propaganda)
Robinson, Florence
Roclantll, Prot. Leo L. (InterT.iew beteen Adolph Hitler and
Karl Von Weigand, a representative ot the Hearst Newspapers)
'Rohns, Paul p. (OO1lllllWlist activities; Hon. Ra1JlOl1d Moley)
Rollins, R. (Unitol'llll worn by" organizations under investigation;
Deutsche Zeitung)
Rosenberg, Jacob (EDiPloyMnt ot Gerl8ll oitisens by U.S. consular
otticials in Germany)
Rosenbert, Maurice D.
Rosenfeld, Louis
Rosenthal, J. (Nazi activities)
Rossbottoa, T. H. (Pan_ ,Rail Road & Steamship Line)
Rothenberg, IrT.1ne H. (Group libel laW'B)
Rothman, Emanuel
Rowe, Alfred T. '
Rozan, M. lI. (Nazi actiT.ities)
Ruben, Louis S.
Rubenstein, Irwill (Nazi actiT.ities)
Rubin, llartia
Sabbath, Hon. Adolph J.
Sale, Harry B. (Nasi propaganda)
Salinger, Samel R. (Anti-SeJlitisal nan! Dai17 Newa, June 8, 1934)
SaliDa, H. D. (Nazi activities)
Sanborn, Vera X.
Sanders, Leon (Nazi activities)
Sarchln, S&lIUel
Sarett, B. L.
Scanlan, Patrick F. (The Brooklyn Tabletl OOlllDllnist activities)
Schack, Wil11am
Scben!'el, P.
Scherbak, H. ("An International Plan Against Prosecution and Political
Provocation by' the Gel"ll8.Jl GOV8l"DJ1entt')
Scherer, Robert J. (Anti-8em1tic propaganda)
Scheuer, ElIIer (Anti-Nazi LeagueJ Dr. W. T. Hinrichs)
Sche.l, tbe (Nazi propaganda' Lynchburg Newa, lpril 25, 1934)
Schmid, Heran (Friends ot New GermanY')
Schmidt, ldam C. (Nazi activities. Charles Heidorn; United States Lines)
Schelly, Rhoda C. Y. (Resolutions of the Ninth Women's Patriotic
Conterence on National Detense regarding immigration, .American
seaman, and Nazi, Fascist, and Cummunist propaganda)
24
Schmitt, Georg (Hazi organizer)
SobJlith, Frank
SchDeider, Jack (Deportation ot Jack Schneider)
Schoentield., Hel'lll8l1 (Anti-Semitis1Il)
Schoeneann, Prot. (nThe 1rt ot Mass Propaganda in the Un!ted State... )
Soholtz, Karl 1. (Investigation ot Nasi propaganda activities)
Schrader, Herman H. (Freie Presse, Jan. 9, 19341 -lir. Dickstein
Tells Stori....)
Schroeder, Theodore
Scbwlm. HeIWDn
Schwabacber, W. S.
Schwarz, Leo B.
Schwartz, G. (St. Louis CoDlDlittee to Aid Victiu ot Gel"ll8.1l Fascin;
"'estUcbe-Post)
Scrinopskl, 1. H. (Kansas State AssociatiOn Btui B'rith)
Scuderi, Joseph R. (L'Osservator.)
Scul.ly', Vary (Participation ot German-.bericans in the Saar plebiscite)
Seaman, William George
Secretary ot the Special COIIUId.ttee on Un-u.rican Activities (Orticial
correspondence and ._oranda)
S&JIUel (Cbarles HeidOrn.)
Seide:rJll&ll. Paul (Anti-8eJlitis.)
Seitert, GustaTc,(Coumunist activities, nThe International World Peace
Conference and Its Fourteen POints")
SeUpann, Carrie M. (New York Herald Tribune, May il, 1934.
nGoebbel. Tells Nazis to 'Teach Jew Hi. Placelll )
Sells. H. G.
Setan, Louis
Shannon, IilU.. 1. (Rep. Hamilton nsh)
Sbapiro, Harry
Sbaughne• .,.. Edward J. (Heinz SpanknoebelJ Ernst von dar Decken)
Sbaw, Vary A.
Shetrin, "s. A
ShoolJaan, Benj. J. (Jewish Daill Bulletin, Feb. 19, 1934: statement
ot Rep. DickateiJJ. an:egIng ,ack of cooperation ot Jewish groups with
the cOJDDdttee)
Sidersq, Philip
Silla Reporting Service
Silla, S. A.
Silver Legion ot AErica (Evidenc. concerning the Silftr Shirts)
Silverman, Sol
S1Daink, S&III1.1
Slenker, Bemard E.
Smetheram, F. E.
Smith, B. H.
-' . ':- .. '
25
Smith, John Cesana
Smith, Joseph (National Association of .lIlerican Seamen) Nazi
aetiT1ties)
Smith, N. (Friends ot Europe)
Smith, N. (Smith News company)
Society ot the Native Born ot the U. S. A.
SolO11on, Daniel (Nasi activities)
SolOllOll, Edward A. "
SolollOn, I. .... (Friends ot Gel"Jl&Dl')
Souch, Dr. Irving (.lnti-5eJlitin)
S01l8nteld, JOM (Silver Shirts ot A_rica)
Somers, Fred Grant
SOaRer, Julius P. (Nazi propaganda)
Sonett, ElIin (Calltomia Staats Zeitung)
Southern Bell Tiiipbone & Telegraph Coap&ny", isheville, Ii. C.
Spanknoebel, Heins (Evidence concerning Heinz Spanknoebel)
Speaker ot the House (Hon. Henry '1'. Rail.ley)
Spear, L. Y. (Electric Boat Company)
Spector, )(aru1ce (Karl 11'. OeraiD)
Spencer, -. C.
Spiegel, Elsa Frieclarich (Mts Gissibl)
State Department
Station D. Hew York, H. Y.
Station 7, New York, N. Y
statman, Col. Ben. L. (C. C. Schiffler)
Steel Helllets
Steele Mrs. Clara (Imprisonment ot Iaobel Lillian steele by the
Nazi regime)
Stefan, Hon. Karl.
stein, J. (Nazi propagandal Grasselli Chemical Co.)
Stein, S. Sidney
Stein, 'Walter
Steinberg, A. Ralph
Steinberg, Jenne (John Reed Club of Boston.)
Steuben Society ot '_rica (Attitude on the cOJllDd.ttee' s investigatiOft
ot Hasi act1Yitiea) ""
StevensOft, Archibald E.
Stewart, E. C. (Fianacing ot Nazi propaganda by J.merieans)
StroS8, John A. (Nasi activitie8)
Strouse, _il11aa (Liberat.1on)
Stuart, H. C. (CustollS ollicers as witnesses)
Studhoma, Janet (The LiYint AR)
Suskalaky, Rugh L. llazi ac Buttale Evening Nen, August 9,
1934, Sept. 4, 1934)
SuakiBd, JIonroe
26
Sutphin, William H. (Camp ot the Friends ot Hew Gel"llBll1' at
Griggstown, H. J. )
Sweeney, Mrs. Famty' S. (The Master Reporting CoJlP8ll1)
Sweetkind, Morris (Anti-Semitic and Nazi propaganda)
Swenbagen, Dr. H. D.
Taber, Hon. John (Earl Browder>
Tanner, lIabel DeVries (Nazi propaganda at West Virginia University)
Tatel, H. E.
Tausky, Henry Geran Labor Magazine, October 1933)
Taylor, C. H.
Teas, George (Hatural1zation papers ot George Teas) Louis lI. Dillon)
TeDenbau., Dr. Joseph (Hasi actititiesz John Franklin Carter)
Teper, Lazare
1hatcher, Isabel (·Third Experiment in InternatioDAl L1nng")
'1'ha;rer, Florine D. (Resolution ot the OpporttmiV Club ot the North
Congregational Church at Cambridge, llass., petitioning tor an
investigation ot the CODIDIUDist .0YeJlent in the U. S.)
Thayer, Walter, R.
Tho_s, Rev. G. L. G. (Silver Shirts ot A_rica)
Thurun, Rabbi S&a1el (Rep. J om J. Cochran)
Tho_s, Capt. T.
Tieme7, Joseph (The Steel HelMts)
TrUMll, R. J. (Co...mist activities)
Treasu1"7 Departaent (Beports aDd data tor the UN ot the COInIIittee)
Trench & Co., c. S. ("An Analy'sis of the Congressional Tin
Investigation Report," by' Percy E. Barbour)
Trewr, John B. (Communist propaganda)
Triable, Hon. South
Tru1tt, Mrs. E. (George •• Christians)
Turn Hall, Boston, Mass. (Registration numbers ot automobiles of
persODs attending meeting at Turn Hall, June 21, 1934)
Uhl, B7ron, H. (Brewster Aeronautic Corporation) Thaas ltanton)
Ulbricht, E.
Unten-.rer, 88JIUel
Van Zandt, J ....s E. (Request tor endorse.nt ot H. Rea. 198, 73rd Cong.)
Varle;y, Kirton (Ge1"ll8D propaganda) Fascin)
Vaudretrl.l, Edward J.
ElMr
Veterans ot Foreign Wars
Viereck, Geroge 871ftstar
Voge, Korri. lltred (Nazi propagandaz Hassau Daily" Revi...)
Vollbehr, Dr. Otto H. F.
Von Lenz, Baron
Von Lil1enteld-Toal, Paul Hans Jl.exander
Von Nasse, Eberhard
Vonsiatsky, ·Count"
27
•
Waddinghalll, (athleen
Wagner, Bruno (B8ichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold)
Wagner, F. (Freie Pressel
Wagner Prof. R. H.
Walk, Juliu. M. (Franz Hanfstaengl)
Walker, Waldo
Wallach, H. It.
Wallach, Sidney
Walter, Reinhold (Witnes8 fees)
Walton, E. J. (Shorthand reporter)
War Departaent
Ward, L. J.. (The Vigl1ante)
Ward, Truman
Waring, Dorotlv'
Warren, Lindse;r C.
Washington, S. S. George (Jo1m Cull1n8.Jl)
Washington Herald. (Alleged misquoting of Rep. S&DI1el Dickstein)
Wasser.an, Harry
w....,..ler, Dr. c. S.
Watt, George ... (Dr. Harry Elmar Barnes)
Watts, HarI7 M.
Weatherbee, H. P.
Weschler, Joseph
Weeks, Henry
Weiciener, J. P.
Weill, )(rs. Julie
Weill, Richard
We1lDer, Gavriel D.
Wells, p. T.
'Welsh, Francis Ralston (Silftr Shirts of A_rica)
Western Union Telegraph Co •
• enneker, Maurice
Wetmore, Declamation Bureau
Wharton, Flora .
Wheeler-Bennett, John W. (The Royal Institute of International A#airs)
!he WhiteHouse
WiecbJlann, John
Whittemore, Lewis B. (Letter of Willi8Jll Dudle,. Pelley)
Wiesenfeld, Mrs. Anna S.
Wllli8Jlls, Bill
Willi..s, Robert K.
Willner, Nathan
Wilson, E. (Henry Iappen)
Wilson, Rosall H.
W'inett, Alexander S.
1IDI Radio Station, New York
Winter, E. J.
28
,,1ntemitz, R.
Wolt, )lax A. (Immigrant Inspector)
Wolt, Morris, (Welt Secret
Wolte, Henry C. (Nazi propaganda)
Woltgarten, Hans, (Gertrude Leiske)
Woll, Matthew
Wolsey, Rabbi Louis (German .IJIleriean Protective A.lliance)
Wood, J. Peter (-The plan in A.ction,- by' Ernest Sincere; R. E.
Yard, James, L (The Friends ot He. Germanyl
Yellen, SalDU.el
Yolles, Peter B.
Young Folks League, Congregation Bnai Isaac, Inc. <"Youth and the
Nelf Ger-.nyft)
Zahlmann, Dr. Paul Roger
ZeleDka, Oustow' (Nazi propaganda)
Zickenbeiner, Karl (Witness tees)
Il1scellaDT
.' !"'i:f':-r-. .. .'
._\ i ,
29
';, ,_", ,.
APPENDIX C
List of Folder Headings Showing the Arrangement and Subject
Matter ot Informational Materials
Alien.
Anti-Catholic Campaign in·:;tbe Presidential Election of 1928
COIIlJId.ttee tor a Sound Dollar and a Sound Currel1C7
Executift Branch ot the Federal Government, An Outline ot Organization
ot the (published by the Brookings Institution, 1933)
Exhibits OIl COIIJIUIlin, filed with the COIUIittee by Willi.. Gree.,
President ot the AIIBricsn Federation ot Labor
Exhibits of the COJIIIittee on COJIUIUDis.
InciteJlent to DiAftection Bill (a bill introduced t.n the British
Parlia..nt to ".ake better provision tor the preftntion and
punism.nt ot endeavor. to seduce IIBaMrs ot His Jlajesty' 8
torces trOII- their duty ot allegiance")
German Day Celebration by United Gel'Ell Societies (transcript ot
public heartn,s on application theretor betore the Jlayer ot
New York CitTJ
Ital.J' (Letter .tating the observations ot a trawler in Italy)
)(ail 'tracings
)(iscellaneou. Exhibits
Nazi Activities
Be.dle Workers' Union Une.ploy.ent Fuad (replie. ot New York turriers
to the Ca.ittee' s qne.tionna1re asking tor intorution regarding
payments to the Union'. unemployaent tlmd)
"Riot and Di.order Clippings (Newspaper clippings on Nazi activities)
Schools, Colleges, and Universities
S. S. ALBERT BlLLDl (Nazi activities)
SS MlNHlTTAR (Nazi activities
S.S. JIORO CASTLE (Nazi activities)
S.S. PRESIDENT HlRDING (Nazi activities)
5.5. PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT (Nazi activities)
S.S. W.lSHINGTC!t (Nazi activities
"Swastike va Austria" (Nazi activities against Austria)
United States Lines (Citizenship ot crew members on wssles belonging
to the United States Lines and A1I8rican Merchant Lines)
30
€ONFU)ENTIAL
APPENDIX D
List ot Folder Headings Showing the Arrangement and Subject
lfatter ot the Files ot Willi.. Dudle,. Pene,., Leader ot the
Shirts ot ABerica
Abby', Warren
Addis, Ruth Beard
Alexander, M. H.
American Nationalist Party
A.utomobile Club ot Southern Calitornia
Barratt, IIa.ry C.
Barrett, Lillie B.
BaUllert, Estella
Benner, Joe
Benner, J ayce
Binder, J. W.
Blue Ridge country Club
Boyan, 1Ianuel
Br81t'8ter, George H
British Secret Sernce Report
Brown, Ralph S.
BrYan-Bradenburg Company
Buckland, Dr. Woen
Bureau ot Internal Rentnue
Carter, John D.
CaN, Euge. R.
Chopnick, Max
Club Casa Del liar, Santa )lonica, Cal.
Cole.m, Henry C.
COIIPWn, Louise C.
COJUtock, Jlarian
Consolidated Jlagazines Corporation
Craig, J. H.
Crain, Ora G.
Crane, Myrtle F. _
Cranston, Elizabeth Thoapsoa
Crawtord, Nelson A.ntra
Crim, John
Cruikshank, )(ajor Barton
CUDIIlings, Hial
Curtiss, Lloyd
Daniels, Rexford
Davenport, Deane
Dean, c. 01iver
31
neem, J. II.
De lfille, Cecil B. (Cecil B. De lIille Pictures)
Denton, A.lbert
Dolge, Grant E.
Dormon, Horace Paul
Doyle, Willi..
Edgerton, James A.
Ettax, Constantine S.
Erickson, Conrad
Fairbanks, Douglas
Fidelit7 and Casualt7 Company of New York
Foundation tor Christian Econollics
Geier.&ll, W. J.
General Insurance COJllp&n7 ot A.rica
George Washington Hotel, N81I' York Cit7
Geman.....rican League
Gibson, Hoot
Gilbert, Charles E.
Bilbert Storage COJapan7, Inc., Ne. York, N. Y.
Griebl, I. T.
GuliCk, Hasel B.
Gutann, T. J.
Hall, II. L.
!larc:bricke, H. M.
Harper Brothers
Harrison, Ililton W.
Hatfield, Charles, F.
Heal1", James
Helms, Floyd
Henigson, HenrT
Xickman, Ellen L.
Holden Xemorial Home
Holm, Therese C.
HOEr, A.
Hotel Southland, Norfolk, Va.
Household Kagazine
Howard, Inn
HOT, Julia .1.
Hull, H. H.
Hull lIotor Pasadena, Cal.
Hultb., Paula W.
Irwin, Ernest L.
Ivan Bloom Hardin Company
Jennings, Al
Jolmstone, Corine L
Kafka, Alice K.
(emp, W. W.
Kerachsky', Reuben H.
32
Kern., Enos (See Witte, Ervin)
Klingelhof'er, A
Jrnoblock, Alvin
Koenigsberg, M.
Lee F.
Kopt, Richard
Knukel, Fred E.
Laemmle, Carl
Lake, Dr. George B.
Larkin, John
Leach, Dr. John D.
Levy, Bert
Liberation News Bureau
Lowson, Frank
Lund, H. H.
Magrath, Arthur W.
Vagrath, Louis
MacIntyre, C. C.
)fackay, 1lartha !.
Mackenzie W. A.
)(acldnder, Harold Allen
)(aples, L. A.
)farah, Helen E.
Karsh, Walter E.
llas80B, Tho_s L.
Mate, Peter
Matlock, Estelle N.
Jlatson, Harold
Jlay, 1I8.y H.
Mayes, Richard
McCormick, John
J1cFadden, Hon. Louis T.
JlcIntyre, Alfred R.
Meighan, 1Ir.
Melcher, Rose S.
Jlerchants Security Company, San Francisco, Calif.
Mercier, Helen Be••
Merten,
liessing, J.
Metropolitan Newspaper Syndicate
Katz, John J. P. C.
Metzger, Lou
Middlemass, Estelle Straun
Jlildeberger, Henry D.
llillard, Charles S.
tiller, Elizabeth C. T.
Jliller, General L.
))
;
..
)(iller, H. E.
Milliken, Conrad
Mills, Charlotte
M:1ttelaier, Hem, F.
Mood;y, Prof. Herbert Raymond
Koore Printing Company
)loving Picture Stars, Biographies of
Muir, Jlurlel
Nash Company, .1.
North Carolina v. William Dudley Pelley et al
Otis, Joseph
Parker Typewritar Company
Parkes, A. J. R.
Partlan, Edward
Pelley, 1Jilli8.Jll Dudley (Personal correspondence)
Persons, Bearl
Pettis, Jessie Goings
Pyle COIII.parl7, Chester, R.
ltaphael, Enock
Ba8JlUssen, W. J
Rawlins, John Edward
Reilly, Frank c.
Reynolds, Paul R.
Richardson, F. L. Jr.
Rinn, Ethelyn
Rogers, Charles R.
Rose, E. B.
Rowden, C. A.
Roy, Dr. Har/d E. Schneider, Mrs. Louis M.
Sieber, Har F.
Simon, Charles L.
Steele, Beryl A.
Stephens, George
Strath-Gordon, Dr. A. E.
Sturtevant, J. B.
Sweetland, Benjamin J.
Dr. 1(• .1.
Telegrams
Toal, Paul A.
Tucker-West, Aliee
Vignola, Robert G.
Vill1ard, Vrs. A. D.
Vinton, Suimer R.
Von Hasse, lIr.
Wager, C. C.
34
Wagner, Albert
Ward, Herbert S.
Ward, lQcll..
Ward, Minnie Lee
Ward, Robert S
Warren, J. C.
Washington Daill· Record
Watkiiis, 1m
Watson, Lura
Webster, Grace
Wiener, Ida C.
West, Lillie C.
Westfall, Anna M.
Wheeler, H. N.
White, J. A.
White, Rev. Lee McBride
• Willis, .lice L.
lIlnehester, John H.
Winstead, Vida M.
Witte, Erwin
Wood, Egbert M.
Wright, Jlarion
Biograp cal Sketch ot William Dudley Pelley
Correspondence and Memoranda
Newspaper clippings regarding the Silver Shirts ot A_rica
_ PublicationsI Liberation, Feb. 18, 1933-1lay 17, 1934;
Silver Le!j:0n Riiiger, Nov. 1, 1933-Aug. 1, 1934; and
other pubcations. .
•
. ,
