{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__levy___mrs_besant_and_the_present_crisis_in_the_theosophical_society.pdf","mytitle":"Mrs Besant And The Present Crisis In The Theosophical Society","mylang":"de"}
MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT
CRISIS IN THE THE0S0PH1CAL
SOCIETY
BY
EUGfcNE LEVY
WITH A PREFATORY LETTER BY
M. EDOUARD SCHUR£
Translated from the French by C. E. S.
LONDON
H. J. HEYWOOD- S MI TH
47 REDCLIFFE SQUARE, S.W.
1913
CONTENTS
PAGE
FOREWORD . . . . . v ii
PREFACE . . . . . . x i
MRS BESANT’S PROCEEDINGS—
THE CONVENTION OF 1 9 1 2 . . . 1
THE CONVENTION OF 1 9 1 1 . . . 9
CONCERNING TIIE SWISS LODGES . . 19
THE CASE OF HERR CORDES . . . 2 4
THE CASE OF DU VOLLRATII . . . 2 6
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE CONGRESS AT GENOA 31
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION . 40
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST”—
FIRST ril ABE . . . . 5 9
SECOND PHASE . . . . 7 1
THIRD PHASE . . . . 9 4
FUNDAMENTAL CAUSES—
SOME OCCULT METHODS . . . 106
CONCLUSION . . . . . 1 2 8
MEMIINTO . . . . . . 1 4 0
ADDENDUM . . . . . 1 4 1
v
FOREWORD
My first words are of thanks to my illustrious
countryman, M. Edouard Schur6, for having per­
mitted me to print his letter ns Preface to this
book. M. Schur6 has contributed some of the
brightest jewels to the cluster that adorn the fabric
of contemporary spiritual literature in France.
Nor does his influence end with our frontiers; far
be}rond our national boundaries are unnumbered
souls nourishing their inner life at the living
fountain of his inspired writings.
M. Schurd’s letter came into my hands at a time
when a stern sense of duty had imposed on me the
task of endeavouring to call public attention and
alarm public feeling regarding the serious crisis
through which the Theosophical Society was pass­
ing. His letter showed me that our great writer
was moved by the same sense of indignation
and apprehension as I was myself conscious of.
M. Schur£ is highly intuitional; he carries us along
with him to a perception of truth by means of
noble and eloquent words, by means of lofty views
V lll MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
clothed in beautiful language; and through his
letter there runs that greatness of motive which
we have learnt to look for in him. His intuitive
genius leads our sense of truth to a conclusion
identical with that arrived at by a logical and
rigorously impartial study of co-ordinated docu­
ments, such as is undertaken in this brochure.
This perfect agreement of our conclusions has
been a source of great satisfaction to me. To
understand the sense of support it has given me
it would be necessary to realise the intense pain
the writing of these pages, so damaging to Mrs
Besant, has caused me.
I know better than anyone, and from personal
experience, all the good that the earlier books of
Mrs Besant have effected. Her present mistakes,
her infinitely regrettable actions, cannot make me
forget her great merit. On the contrary, this
remembrance itself has supported me through the
carrying out of my painful task. For I believe
that in endeavouring to undo the evil she is
spreading I show for her a real appreciation, that
which would diminish the weight of her karmic
responsibility. Theosophists will understand me.
They will also understand that those do but injure
her who give her the support of a blind loyalty.
One other thought has helped and encouraged
me. To all who would distinguish between the
real and the unreal this question of the “ return of
FOREWORD IX
the Christ ” is, of all those with which present and
future humanity is concerned, by far the most
important. For the time being it interests but a
few minds; but those who have studied it know
that it is destined to move and stir the depths of
the human soul more profoundly than they have
ever yet been stirred in modern times. It is this
that has made it seem to me a pressing duty to
clear up the pernicious equivocations now current
on this subject, the more so that the erroneous
statements of Mrs Besant encourage the mistaken
belief of incompatibility between Christianity and
Theosophy. In Paris, three lectures given at the
Catholic Institute have maintained this view.
One lecture had for title, “To Fight against
Theosophy is a Religious Duty.” Further, an
important article appeared recently in the Church
Times, one of the best-known religious papers,
ending with these words: “The day on which
we accept Theosophy we renounce Christ.” I
must confess that a careful study of Mrs Besant’s
assertions forces every logical mind to this con­
clusion, but her errors should not be imputed to
Theosophy. The pages following, which deal with
Mrs Besant’s “ return of the Christ ” message, will
show that this has no connection with Theosophical
teachings.
My space has, unfortunately, been too limited for
me to attempt to give in detailed order Dr Steiner’s
X MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
comprehensive views concerning the Christ, and
the unique rdle he sees Him as playing in the
scheme of human evolution. For the writer it
is beyond question that it is the teachings of
Dr Steiner that have made him bow in reverence
of mind and heart before Christ, though at the
time he was an alien from Christianity both by
birth and by his philosophic and theosophic past.
This is the very Christ of the Gospels, and no
other. It cannot therefore be a question for a
single moment of antagonism between Christianity
and Theosophy properly so called—very much the
reverse. And to this every sincere inquirer will
agree.
All who desire to protect Theosophy from what­
ever would compromise it will approve the step I
have taken, and will forgive me for not having
shrunk from any revelation, however painful it
might be; for having respected no error, whoever
might be its author; for having yielded to nothing
but to the truth of documents and facts; and for
having held to the interpretations of common sense
alone. I have sought the support of those minds
alone who hope nothing save from Truth.
EUGENE LEVY.
PREFACE
A Letter from M . Edouard Schuri, Honorary
Member of the French Section of the Theo-
sophical Society,to the General Secretary of
the French Section.
To M. Charles Blech, General Secretary of
the French Theosophical Society.
D e a r Sir,—In the year 1907 you graciously
offered me the title of Honorary Member of the
T.S., on account of the part I had taken in your
movement through my writings. I fully under­
stood how friendly and flattering your intention
was. I accordingly accepted, with as much joy
as gratitude, the honour you wished to confer upon
me. If I now feel compelled to retire officially
from the T.S., it is my duty to give you my
reasons straightforwardly.
At the date of which I speak (1907) it was
possible to hope that harmony would be maintained
in the T.S. in spite of the various tendencies then
Xll MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
manifesting within it. For in its very principles
it recognised the necessary variety of religions
and philosophies, under the aegis of human brother­
hood and a divine principle of the universe. Since
the Christian era there have been two different
streams in esotericism, the Eastern and the
Western. I will remark in passing that these
two currents can be clearly distinguished in the
life and work of the founder of the T.S., Mme.
H. P. Blavatsky. For her first work, Iaia Unveiled,
was written under a visibly Western and Rosi-
crucian influence, whereas her later works bear
an Eastern and Hindu stamp. In the serene
heights of thought and initiation these two tradi­
tions have always understood and helped each other.
They have only disagreed and contended when
personal passions and ambitions have invaded
the teaching. We could hope, and ought to have
hoped, that the T.S. would remain true to the
motto inscribed on its banner. I, for my part,
wished this all the more because amongst the
national branches of the T.S. a specially lofty and
fruitful task was assigned by nature to the
French Section, that of keeping the balance
between the most varied tendencies, and seeking
to synthesise them. Is not the sense of liberty
and universality the highest mark of the French
genius ? The remarkable personality of the
President, Mrs Annie Besant, and the nobility of
PREFACE X lll
her past career, seemed to promise that the T.S.
would continue in the broad way of tolerance,
impartiality, and veracity which forms an essential
part of its programme.
Unfortunately, things turned out otherwise. The
primary cause of this deviation lies in the close
alliance of Mrs Besant with Mr Leadbeater, a
learned occultist, but of an unsettled disposition and
doubtful morality. After Mr Leadbeater had been
found guilty by an advisory Committee of the T.S.,
Mrs Besant publicly announced her reprobation of
the educational methods with which he was charged.
Her verdict of exclusion against this theosophist
who had been found to be unworthy was ex­
ceedingly severe. By an inconceivable change of
front she soon afterwards declared her intention
of bringing Mr Leadbeater into the T.S. again,
and she succeeded, not without some difficulty,
in gaining the vote of the majority of her colleaguesf
for this purpose. The excuses she gave for this
recantation were charity and pardon. The real
reason was that the President needed Mr Leadbeater
for her occult investigations, and that this collabora­
tion appeared to her necessary to her prestige.
To those who have followed her words and acts
from that time onwards, it is clearly manifest
that Mrs Besant has fallen under the formidable
suggestive power of her dangerous collaborator,
and can only see, think, and act under his absolute
x iv MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
control. The personality henceforward speaking
through her is no more the author of The Ancient
Wisdom, but the questionable visionary, the skilful
master of suggestion who no longer dares to show
himself in London, Paris, or America, but in the
obscurity of a summer-house at Adyar governs
the T.S. through its President. The ill-omened
consequences of this influence were soon to appear
before the world through the affair of Alcyone
and the founding of the Order of the Star in
the East.
By a singular chance, I had the opportunity of
surprising the secret cause and, so to say, the
psychological fount of this deplorable enterprise.
I will begin by saying that at this time there was
no talk as yet of a new Teacher to come from
India, nor of an approaching reincarnation of
Christ, and that probably no one thought of such
a thing. Alcyone had not yet been discovered.
This was in 1908. I had just published a transla­
tion of a book of Dr Rudolf Steiner under the title,
Le mysUre Chrdtien et les mystores antiques. This
book had attracted the attention of the European
public to the revival of Western esotericism, made
known in this magnificent piece of work and
through the activity of the German theosophist.
Passing through Stuttgart, I fell in with some ten
English, Dutch, Swiss, and French theosophists.
The following question was raised: “ Will the two
PREFACE XV
schools, that of Adyar and Dr Steiner’s, be able to
go on hand in hand?” We were almost all of
opinion that agreement would be possible in spite
of different points of view, and that this was highly
desirable in the best interests of theosophy, which
does not represent a particular or national move­
ment, but a universal movement of contemporary
humanity.
Only one member of the group protested. This
was a very intelligent Dutch theosophist, of
sceptical and scoffing disposition, an intimate friend
of Mr Leadbeater, and an habitual guest at
Adyar. He plainly said that the two schools
would not be able to agree, and gave as his reason
that only India possesses the tradition, and that
there had never been any scientific esotericism in
the West.
This dogmatic assertion astonished me. I only
understood its meaning and scope when shortly
afterwards, like a bomb, or rather like a firework,
the affair of Alcyone burst upon us. For this
affair is really nothing but the answer from
Adyar to the revival of Christian esotericism in
the West, and I am convinced that had it not been
for the latter we should never have heard of the
future prophet Krishnamurti.
If a real Indian initiate, a Brahmin or otherwise,
of ripe age, had come to Europe on his own re­
sponsibility or in the name of his Masters to teach
XVI MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
his doctrines, nothing would have been more
natural or interesting. We should only have had
to listen to him, to judge him by his words and
acts, and to add to our knowledge from his. But
it was not in this form that we beheld the new
apostle from Adyar. A young Indian, aged
thirteen, initiated by Mr Leadbeater—that is to
say, trained by him, mentally impressed to a high
degree—is proclaimed and presented to the Euro­
pean public as the future teacher of the new era.
Krishnamurti, now called Alcyone, has no other
credentials than his master’s injunctions and Mrs
Besant’s patronage. His thirty-two previous in­
carnations are related at length, the early ones
going back to the Atlantean period. These narra­
tives, given as the result of Mr Leadbeater’s and
Mrs Besant’s visions, are for the most part
grotesquely puerile, and could convince no serious
occultist. They are ostensibly designed to prove
that for twenty or thirty thousand years the
principal personages in the T.S. have been pre­
paring for the Great Work which is soon to be
accomplished. In the course of their incarna­
tions, which remind one of a newspaper novel,
these personages are decorated with the great
names of Greek mythology, and with those of
the most brilliant stars in the firmament. During
a meeting at Benares, Krishnamurti, presenting
certificates to his followers, received honours like
PREFACE XVII
a divine being, many persons present falling at
his feet. He does not, however, utter a word,
but only makes a gesture of benediction, prompted
by Mrs Besant. In reporting this scene Mr
Leadbeater likens it to the descent of the Holy
Ghost at Pentecost.
For this dumb prophet is founded the Order of
the Star in the East, which the whole world is
invited to join, and of which he is proclaimed the
head. In Europe Mrs Besant gives lectures on the
future Christ, whose advent she predicta to be very
near. She does not say positively that Krishna-
murti will be he, but she allows it to be understood,
suggesting the thought by transparent allusions.
They are thus left free to make him either the
herald or the incarnation of this Christ. Be that
as it may, the passive young prodigy, who has not
yet given the world the least proof of having any
mission at all, becomes henceforth the centre and
cynosure of the T.S., the symbol and sacred ark of
the orthodox faith of Adyar. As to the doctrine
preached by Mrs Besant, it rests on a perpetual
equivocation. She allows the English public at
large, to whom she speaks of the coining Christ,
to believe that he is identical with the Christ of
the Gospels, whereas to her intimates she states
what Mr Leadbeater teaches, and what he openly
proclaims in one of his books, The Inner Life—
namely, that the Christ of the Gospels never existed,
XV111 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
and was an invention of the monks of the second
century.
Such facts are difficult to characterise. I will
simply say that they are saddening for all those
who, like myself, believed in the future of the T.S.,
for they can only repel clear-sighted and sincere
minds. I will only draw here one historical con­
clusion. From the succession of facts which I
have just reported, it comes out with striking
clearness that the Order of the Star in the East,
and the kind of religion which they are trying to
start round the name of Alcyone, is first and
foremost an engine of war invented for making a
breach in the independent Theosophy of the West
an attempt (what a clumsy one!) to nullify
Christian esotericism for the benefit, I will not say
of Eastern wisdom, for the latter would take
exception to this, but of the Adyar sect; an
attempt of which Mr Leadbeater is the instigator,
Mrs Annie Besant the accomplice, and the whole
Society the victim.
One word more about the latest events. After
what has been related, a conflict between the
President and Dr Steiner was inevitable. The
smothered attacks which had been going on for
some years he at first only answered with long-
suffering and complete silence. The extreme
tension of a situation which could not be indefinitely
prolonged determined him to act with unexpected
PREFACE XIX
energy. The published documents of the con­
troversy prove that Mrs Annie Besant has failed
in straightforwardness and sincerity by trying to
misrepresent the teaching and personality of the
German theosophist by false assertions and under­
hand methods. It was expected that she would
meet the charges brought against her—supported
as they were by indisputable facts and by her own
writings—with a regular refutation. Her only
answer is the cancelling, pure and simple, of the
German and Swiss Lodge charters. Finally,
anxious to conclude the debate without discussion,
she seeks, in a recent article in the Theosophist,
summarily to discredit the thought and character
of Dr Steiner by aflirming “ that he was educated
by the Jesuits.” This assertion, which is destitute
of any foundation, and which it would considerably
embarrass Mrs Besant to prove, conclusively shows
the disloyal character of her insinuations.
These facts taken together have determined the
resolution I now take. In my eyes, one can no longer
be an actual member of the T.S. without implicitly
approving the deeds and words of the President,
which flagrantly contradict the essential principle
of the Society—I mean scrupulous and absolute
respect for truth. For these reasons I regret that
I must send you my resignation os a member of
the Theosophical Society.
In fulfilling this painful duty, I am conscious
XX MRS BESANT ANI) THE PRESENT CRISIS
of remaining true to the spirit of eternal and
universal theosophy, with the certainty that it will
one day emerge triumphantly from its temporary
eclipse.
Accept, dear sir, the assurance of ray affection
and respect.
EDOUARD SCHURE.
Paris, March 1, 1913.
MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT
CRISIS IN THE THEOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY
MRS BESANT'S PROCEEDINGS
THE CONVENTION OF 1912
I n her Convention speech, printed in the Theoso-
phist for February of 1913, Mrs Besant states:
“The General Secretary of the German Section,
educated by the Jesuits, has not been able to shake
himself sufficiently clear of that fatal influence to
allow liberty of opinion within his Section.”
This fact stated by Mrs Besant is entirely false. )(
Dr Steiner has not been educated by the Jesuits.
His Autobiography, given as an answer to this
imputation, will shortly appear, with definite light
on this question. We give it in brief.
Dr Steiner was born on 27th February 1861, in
the village of Kraljevic in Hungary, the son of a
railway official. The removals of his father from
place to place led them, when Dr Steiner was two
years old, to Pottschach, on the frontiers of Styria
1
i
2 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
and of Lower Austria; and seven years after to
Neudorfel (in Hungarian, Lajtha Szt. Miklds), a
small station on the frontiers of Cislethania, on the
Hungarian side. Up to the age of ten Dr Steiner
attended the peasant schools of the villages in
which his father was stationed. There are not in
these villages or in their neighbourhood any Jesuit
establishments. On the contrary, Dr Steiner
exhibits the religious indifference characteristic of
the environment in which he was brought up ; to
such an extent is this so that his father decided to
send him at the age of ten to a technical school,
the Realschule of Wiener - Neustadt, to prepare
him for the career of engineer, or any other calling
in accordance with the modern scientific tendency.
Dr Steiner followed the course of religious studies
in this school only the first four years, when it was
obligatory. He has not been confirmed. In order
that he might continue his studies at a better
school, his father moved later to the suburbs of
Vienna, where Dr Steiner studied at the Poly-
technical Institute. These studies over, he became
tutor in the family of a Jewish merchant. It was
during the course of these years of teaching that
his career tended towards classical studies, originally
undertaken with the object of helping one of his
pupils. It was thus that he was induced to work
for and take the university degree of Doctor of
Philosophy.
THE CONVENTION OF 1912 3
These facts will prove sufficiently the absolute
falsity of the allegations of Mrs Besant. They
even prove them grotesque, for who is going to
believe that a Jewish merchant in Austria^would
confide the education of his children to a pupil of
the Jesuits ?
Mrs Besant will probably tell us one of these
days that she was misinformed.
However, this does not quite dispose of the
matter; we cannot let it pass thus lightly, nor
without saying that it seems to argue a great lack
of the sense of responsibility in Mrs Besant to have
thus carelessly made such an assertion, and immedi­
ately drawn from it such a damning conclusion.
In a Society which has the proud motto, “ There
is no religion higher than Truth,” every member,
even the latest recruit, should be moved by a sense
of duty not to repeat anything which may be
inaccurate. And before any member launched an
accusation so serious as the one above quoted, he
should possess unquestionable proof. But when it
comes to the President of the Society being guilty
of such ill-speaking, the sin acquires a gravity in
proportion to the greatness of her responsibilities
and to the importance of the occasion on which it
was uttered ; for the real seriousness of her action
becomes apparent when we remember that she
was addressing an audience drawn from the four
corners of the civilised world.
4 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
In committing this indiscretion Mrs Besant has
lowered the banner entrusted to her hands, the
banner that bears that noble motto exalting
the worship of Truth even above the worship of
the Divine. Such is the tragedy we are facing
to-day in the Society.
Dr Steiner is a teacher for whom I have a
profound veneration, but it is not the personal
insult flung at him that most deeply wounds me:
it is the fact that Mrs Besant has not only failed in
her Presidential duty, but that she has deliberately
betrayed the vital principle of Theosophy, that
principle which is the quintessence of the three
objects of the Society and of its motto: fidelity to
Truth, devotion to Truth.
I would not arrogate to myself the right to judge
my neighbour, but it is not a question here of
either Mrs Besant or myself: it is a question of the
Theosophical Society, of an instrument destined to
aid in the evolution of humanity. The more keenly
we have its mission at heart, the more earnestly
shall we watch that it be worthy and capable of
its great task.
Mrs Besant held these same views when in 1906
she said, in speaking of the Leadbeater affair, that
“ the Theosophical Society must be protected from
all teachings that would sully or degrade it,” and
she adds: “ If the day of my fall should come, I
ask those who love me not to shrink from con-
THE CONVENTION OF 1912 5
demning my fault, not to extenuate it nor to say
that black is white, but rather let them lighten my
heavy karma, as I am trying to lighten the karma
of my friend and brother, by proclaiming the un­
shaken purity of the ideal. . . . Leadbeater has
fallen, Judge has fallen, perhaps I too shall fall. . .
(Theosophic Voice, vol. i. No. 3).
The critical moment so pathetically foreseen
seems to have arrived, and the task set forth
her true friends will perform though the pain
be beyond expression, because they claim, as
she claimed, to hold the worship of the ideal
above all.
Mrs Besant makes use of a false imputation in
representing all Dr Steiner’s acts as inspired by a
narrow and sectarian spirit. The allegation being
false, her conclusions based on it disappear with it
But Mrs Besant’s attitude, as revealed by this
slander, does not oiler us a sufficient guarantee of
impartiality for us to accept without investigation
any of her conclusions concerning her differences
with Dr Steiner. Thus a careful examination of
the facts themselves becomes our duty.
To explain the spirit in which I undertake this
inquiry, I would ask leave here to repeat my words
to Mrs Besant, to be found in the Theosophist of
June 1912, p. 441: “ Before Dr Steiner began his
public work your writings, inspired by the great
power of your devotion to the most noble human
6 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
ideal, had moved me to devote my inner and outer
life to the service of Truth. And so I would
here offer you the tribute of deep gratitude and
admiration that nothing can ever alter.”
I have loyally endeavoured to be true to these
feelings throughout these pages; but Mrs Besant’s
own past exhortations call upon me to subordinate
such sentiments to a Bole concern for truth. So
that I shall in this book call upon facts alone, on
documents that can be consulted by all; and the
interpretation of these facts shall be in accord­
ance with principles universally admitted by all
theosophists. ____________
[The following paragraphs were added while this
book was going through the press, and so appear as
an addition.]
In repeating Mrs Besant’s erroneous statements
as regards Dr Steiner’s education I admitted her
good faith, and I was convinced that she would
correct her mistake as soon as she was rightly in­
formed. This expectation has not been realised.
In the Theosophist for April of 1913,just published,
she prints Dr Steiner’s strong protest against this
slander, as contrary to the known facts of his life.
She pays no attention to this protest, but on the
contrary she repeats her assertion, quoting the
sources of her information: Dr Franz Hartmann,
Herr Paul Zillmann, and Dr Fred. Maack.
THE CONVENTION OF 1912 7
Now, at the same time that the Theosophist was
being printed at Adyar, the April Mitteilungen was
being printed in Germany, and this latter contains
a very curious anecdote about Dr Franz Hartmann.
On p. 1 of the German paper Dr Steiner writes:
“ During the Congress of 1909, held that year at
Budapest, Mrs Besant spoke to me about a certain
person, whom she conceived to be in a position of
disagreement with me on some points. I asked for
particulars of his grievances, and she replied that
this person thought I was a Jesuit; and to show
how much this accusation amused her she added
that tliis same person had already considered her
one. So that as far back as 1909 Mrs Besant knew
perfectly well that the accusation was an absurd
one.” So much for Dr Franz Hartmann.
The second “ witness ” of Mrs Besant’s is Herr
Paul Zillmann, of whom she herself says that he
had never been able to work with Dr Steiner. For
the second time Mrs Besant has sought information
as to Dr Steiner from an opponent.
She quotes finally a Dr Ferd. Maack, but she
does not say that not for a moment could anyone
take the pamphlet from which the false statement
is taken as a true biography. This same brochure
is throughout a bitter criticism against Dr Steiner,
and all that he says and does. The words “pupils
of the Jesuits” are there used in the same sense
as that in which they are used in the following
8 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
lines, to be read in a German brochure by Heinrich
Hensoldfc, PhD., and which appeared five or six
years ago under the title, Annie Besant: Eine
wunderliche Heilige—a queer saint. This author
writes of her : “ For a long time now she seems to
have comforted herself with the old motto of the
Jesuits, that the end justifies the means, and to
have discovered a modus vivcndi. She now firmly
believes, in the depths of her heart, that without
some charlatanry, in spite of the desire to remain
honest, it is not possible to play a great r61e in
the world.”
The one conclusion we arrive at from all this
wretched gossip is that the insinuation of any
connection whatever with the Jesuits would seem
to be in Germany a favourite and effective means
of besmirching a reputation. Could Mrs Besant
really have believed in the impartiality of an
author who opposed alike the personality and the
occultism of Dr Steiner, would she seriously take
as a biography a declaration of war that by its
whole framework protests against such an inter­
pretation ? Any biography must give dates and
places, as does the very slight sketch we have
given earlier; while on the other hand insinuations
without the slightest foundation must perforce
remain silent on all such points.
We are forced to admit that Mrs Besant has
made use of manifestly unfriendly gossip. It is
THE CONVENTION OF 1911 9
true it had been repeated three times, but has she
believed that by being repeated a fourth time this
scandal would become true ? If this were so,
Mine. Blavatsky would be unquestionably the
greatest impostor of the nineteenth century, since
she was its best-slandered personage; not three
but thirty or three hundred times was she accused
of worse frauds.
All this is terribly sad. Anyone who valued
his dignity or was true to his reason would
resolutely and sternly repudiate Mrs Besant, for
she robs us of our last illusions.
THE CONVENTION OF 1911
Everyone knows that Mrs Besant fills two
distinct positions in the Theosophical Society.
She is first the President, but she is also a teacher.
The Theosophical Society itself is “ without dis­
tinction of creed ”; it supports no dogma, but
permits the widest liberty of opinion. It thus
follows that Mrs Besant, in her capacity of President,
should feel bound in principle to observe the
strictest neutrality in all questions of doctrine or
teaching. Her double function especially should
impose on her the duty of the strictest possible
care, so as scrupulously to avoid any abuse of her
Presidential authority in favour of the teaching
she represents. It is from this standpoint that
10 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
we must consider anyone holding office as President)
and teacher.
In a letter published in the Theosophist of
June 1912,1 have shown how much Mrs Besant,
from 1911, has deviated from this line of conduct.
In her address to the Convention at Adyar in that
year she said: “ Even in Germany a growing
number of Theosophists prefer the old and wider
teachings to the new ” (those of Dr Steiner).
Thus did Mrs Besant seek to belittle the teachings
of Dr Steiner. She asserted the equality of all
teachings within the Theosophical Society in order
to assert that those of Dr Steiner were narrower
than hers—which is absolutely false. But had it
even been true, she thus sought to discredit by
her speech teachings other than her own, violating
the principle she had proclaimed ; and is it very
dignified in a teacher to miss no opportunity of
vaunting her superiority ? So that already in 1911
we see the desire to disparage, in the same direction,
though not yet having reached to the extent of
slandering, as she did in the 1912 Convention.
Speaking at this same Convention of 1911,
Mrs Besant stated that Dr Steiner’s teaching gave
“ to Christianity a primacy which non-Christian
nations could not accept, but which Buits German
ideas. . . How many times have I not heard it
said that he had violated the principle of equality
of religions within the Theosophical Society !
THE CONVENTION OF 1911 11
This question seems none the less easy of solu­
tion : if there is to be rigid equality of all faiths,
equal valuation of their scriptures, equal respect
for their ceremonial practices, we shall not only
have to place Buddhism on a level with Christianity,
but we shall also have to accept the superstitions
and customs of African and Australian blacks—
whether these have crystallised into an actual
faith as yet or not—and place them on a level
with the great religions above mentioned. If for
a moment we repudiate the idea of such equality,
then we have at once admitted “distinction ” in
creeds.
In denying such equality we shall have intro­
duced another factor into the question, the un­
deniable truth that a correspondence exists between
a religion and the general level of civilisation of
the race whose faith it is. We cannot for a
moment suppose that those who supervise the
religions of humanity have ignored this obvious
correspondence as part of the evolutionary law;
for it is they who guide evolution, and who surely
see that the faith of a nation shall be such as
will mould its civilisation. If throughout the
ages all religions had been really equal, it would
mean that those who guide our evolution had
acted somewhat like a state that instituted in its
schools a course of study precisely the same for
children and adults of all ages. Such an idea
12 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
cannot be seriously considered for a moment, and
the acceptance of Christianity as part of an organic
whole of religions does not preclude appreciation
of its special value. On the contrary, the accept­
ance of a succession of stages in divine revelation
supports Dr Steiner’s teaching on the point under
discussion.
Further, does not the second object of the Society
demand the comparative study of religions ? . . .
Would this be worth while if all the religions were
equal ?
The very fact of this being an object of the
Society shows us to what extent we may assert the
equality of religions in the Theosophical Society.
Theosophy proclaims those great laws that guide
the spiritual evolution of mankind. Each religion
is their temporary expression adapted to the
capacities of a certain race, shaped by the con­
ditions of a given epoch; and it is certain that
a soul drawing its inspiration from this central
religion—which is Theosophy—will have realised
the true equality, the real brotherhood of religions.
The idea of looking on one as superior or inferior
will not arise, since all appear as the forms of
supreme Truth, marvellously adapted to the ends
they serve at any given moment. Indeed, we
might even risk the paradox of saying that a
religion would only be inferior were it different
from what it was, for in its primitive purity it
THE CONVENTION OF 1911 13
suited, precisely by being what it was, the require­
ments of the race to whom it was given, and was
therefore perfect. Since incarnation in any race
is open in principle to all egos, not one could con­
sider itself superior by virtue of being born in one
religion or another in a particular incarnation.
From all this we see that, whatever their religious
beliefs, the religious equality of the members of the
Theosophical Society is an admitted fact, for the
one superior religion—Divine Wisdom—unites all
the creeds that exist, blending them into a religious
fatherland in which they are each but different
countries or provinces.
It is thus because Theosophy breaks down the
narrow boundaries that limit each religion that it
rises above them, and exists at a level at which
they can see their common origin and their
common goal. From these two points of view all
religions are indeed equal. We can even go
further than that, and say that anyone manifesting
a preference for any particular form of faith
shows thereby that he has not yet got his spiritual
home in that Divine Wisdom which has been the
builder of all.
If this attitude as described ought to mark every
theosophist as regards his outlook on religions, it
should be found still more marked in a theo­
sophical teacher, whose words and acts should be
inspired by theosophical principles only.
14 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
In objecting to the supremacy of one religion,
has Mrs Besant desired to intimate that no one
who speaks in the name of Theosophy should
allow any personal affinity in religious matters to
colour their teachings ? If so, it must be done
without reservations, for the teacher quits
theosophic ground if he shows an individual
preference for any religion whatsoever. Instead
of raising the soul of the student above individual
religions, into the sphere of their harmonious
unity, he will anchor it more firmly in its narrow
beliefs. He will at the same time hurt the feelings
of the different races and nations represented
within the Theosophical Society, he will intensify
the very feelings that the theosophic education
tends to transmute and ennoble. He will have
strengthened the conceptions that he seeks to
reform.
Mrs Besant’s concern regarding the supremacy
of a single religion within the Theosophical Society
is well grounded. Every teacher should guard
against expressing a personal bias in matters
religious, since this betrays a spirit opposed to that
of Theosophy.
Has Dr Steiner then failed in regard to this
obligation ? His opponents have never pretended
to find one single word or one single act proving
him to have a personal preference for any one
religion.
THE CONVENTION OF 1911 15
But it is interesting to examine from this stand­
point the attitude of the very ones who accuse him
of violating the equality of religions.
We know that Mr Leadbeater, born a Christian
and having been a Christian clergyman, has been
converted to Buddhism, has taken “ pansil,” the
Buddhist baptism, in great pomp in Ceylon, from
the hands of the high priest Sumangala. In
recording this conversion in his Old Diai'y Leaves,
vol. iii. p. 196, Colonel Olcott says: “ The crowd
was immense. This was the first instance of a
Christian clergyman having publicly declared
himself a follower of the Lord Buddha, and the
sensation caused by it may be easily imagined.”
And there were very good grounds for this
sensation, for on that day Christianity had been
gravely discredited before the eyes of the world in
the name of the Theosophical Society. In truth,
to change one’s religion is not only to express a
personal preference, but is to express a recognition
of the superiority of the religion that one is
converted to over that from which one withdraws.
And when a man who has been the priest of one
religion leaves it to become the adherent of an­
other, have we not a case of deepest conviction
and preference ? No one would for a moment
dream that such steps proved the conviction of
equality of religions. Hero we see the total
abandonment of the theosophic point of view in
16 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
favour of a particular religion. Such an act is
completely foreign to theosophic thought or
aspiration.
As for Mrs Besant, she hides her preferences no
more than Mr Leadbeater. In the Theosophist for
May 1912, p. 287, she thus writes: “To myself,
personally, Hinduism, the oldest religion of our
fifth race, is the most satisfactory exposition of the
Wisdom, the mother of all religions, probably
largely because I have been born thereinto so
many times, and feel most ‘at home’ therein.”
But what gives her words their true significance
is that they preface a quotation from an article
which had appeared in one of the London journals,
accusing Mrs Besant, “ in spite of her often very
eloquent expressions of Christian truths,” of being
in reality "the most subtle and dangerous
opponent of the Gospel of Christ as understood by
the Evangelical Churches,” and saying further:
“ Is it surprising that Hindus should turn their
backs upon our civilisation, when a European of
highly trained intellectual power, and with an
extraordinary gift of eloquence, comes and
tells them that it is they who possess and have
from all times possessed the key to supreme
wisdom; that their gods, their philosophy, their
morality are on a higher plane of thought than
the West has ever reached ?” This author is
represented to us by Mrs Besant as “a doubtless
THE CONVENTION OF 1911 17
earnest missionary.” We must therefore suppose
that he informs us correctly as regards Mrs
Besant’s way of expressing herself about Hinduism,
since she does not contradict him, but on the
contrary shows precisely these same preferences in
the quotation we have given above.
When we see this missionary conclude from her
attitude that she is an enemy to Christianity, we
realise what a very grave fault it is in a teacher to
abandon the theosophic ground of the Mother-
Wisdom, in which each religion is perfect. For
such a lapse spreads its effects far beyond the
limits of our Society, and damages the theosophic
ideal in the eyes of the world.
Mrs Besant has done harm to the Society, and
has narrowed in the eyes of its members the
religious point of view characteristic of Theosophy,
in siding with a special religion. She breaks a
fundamental requirement in a theosophical teacher,
and we have the right to reproach her, slightly
modifying her own words: “She gives to Hinduism
a supremacy that would not be acceptable . . .
either to Christian Theosophists, Hindus, Bud­
dhists, or those of any religion, if they are really
Theosophists.”
Mrs Besant, unmindful of the evolutionary im­
press marking the form of every religion, for­
getting the official pronouncement of her prefer­
ence for Hinduism, reproaches Dr Steiner unjustly
2
18 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
with what she is doubly guilty of, both by reason
of the sense in which she offers her complaint and
by reason of her own personal preferences, irrecon­
cilable with the theosophic point of view in matters
of religion.
[What follows has been added while the book
was going through the press.]
I have endeavoured to keep strictly to the
determination of making no assertion in the course
of this examination which cannot be supported by
irrefutable proofs. I have therefore refrained from
stating, for want of proof, what I have always
heard said around me in the Theosophical Society,
that Mrs Besant had become a Hindu. But in the
Theosophist for March 1913, appearing after these
pages were written, Mrs Besant writes: “ Many of
you, like myself, are not Christians.” Mrs Besant
was born a Christian ; she could not cease to be one
save by denying Christianity in favour of another
religion. All our remarks apropos of Mr Lead-
beater apply equally to Mrs Besant. She reproaches
Dr Steiner for having favoured one religion above
the others, without even attempting to prove her
assertion; while it is she herself, on the contrary,
who is guilty of religious partiality, in the fullest
sense of the word, both in her acts and words, as
quoted above. We see how clearly our conclusions
were justified.
CONCERNING THE SWISS LODGES 19
CONCERNING THE SWISS LODGES
Dr Steiner had founded a certain number of
extremely flourishing lodges in Switzerland, whose
members were more numerous than those of the
Swiss lodges whose members were attached to the
teachings of Mrs Besant. By a genuine coup d'ttat
four of the Geneva lodges, almost the only ones at
the time in Switzerland attached to the teachings of
Mrs Besant, suddenly split up into seven lodgeB(the
number required by the constitution for the forma­
tion of a national section), and applied to Adyar
for a charter, under the aegis of rules elaborated
so as to place in the hands of the members of the
lodges thus applying the future direction of the
Swiss Section. The other Swiss lodges had not
even been notified of the step taken.
This charter was granted to these sixty-one
Genevese members, and a majority of one hundred
and thirty-two members, attached to Dr Steiner,
were thus gagged in the name of the Constitution ;
and Mrs Besant failed to see that to stifle justice and
liberty in the name of constitutional rules was to
violate the most sacred theosophic principles. In
view of the obstinacy with which she has refused
justice to the repeated appeals of the Swiss lodges
attached to Dr Steiner, and of the ceaseloss opposi­
tion shown by her to the legitimate aspirations
of the majority, we are forced to recognise that
20 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
she afc least protects by her support the arbitrary
action of the Geneva lodges, even if she has not
encouraged it. And this action, by reason of the
aims as revealed in the rules, appears to be a
disloyal device towards those within the body of
the Theosophical Society who follow the teach­
ing of Dr Steiner. For those rules decreed that
the Swiss Section should be governed by the
ruling of the Executive Committee, consisting of
seven members “who shall be the ‘
presidents of the
seven foundation lodges ” This number might be
increased to twelve, thus ensuring a majority in the
future to Geneva; and still further assured by the
five additional members being chosen by the Genevese
Executive Committee from among the presidents of
lodges! The intentions that must have inspired the
authors of such rules are clearly manifest and
render comment superfluous.
There is no just cause for reproaching the lodges
founded by Dr Steiner with having repudiated Mrs
Besant’s compromise proposing the formation in
Switzerland of two sections, the one German- and
the other French-speaking, and the inclusion of
Lugano in the Italian Section. If Mrs Besant
abandoned the principle of national frontiers (the
constitutional pretext of the authors of the coup
d'itat), it was inadmissible in her to substitute the
arbitrary principle of linguistic frontiers, entirely
absent from the Society’s Constitution.
CONCERNING THE SWISS LODGES 21
On the one side this artificial barrier would have
broken the bond between friends attached to one
another and to the same teacher, and on the other
it created an illusory division, since in Switzerland
it is impossible to trace an absolute line of linguistic
demarcation.
The Lugano Lodge, for example, founded by
Germans, does not count a single Italian among
its membership, and carries on its studies entirely
in German. Further, the lodges attached to Dr
Steiner, while refusing to be separated from their
sister lodges of Neuchdtel and Lugano, undertook
on their side in no way to oppose the expansion of
the Genevese lodges or the spread of Mrs Besant’s
teaching throughout Switzerland, German, French,
or Italian.
It would have been difficult on the ground of
common sense or equity to refuse to listen to such
appeal; nevertheless Mrs Besant did virtually refuse
in declaring that the Italian General Secretary
demanded that Lugano should be included in the
Italian Section. Her declaration called forth the
following reply, which I quote verbatim: “Your
letter contains a misstatement of fact. As soon as
it was received, the original president of the Lugano
Lodge placed himself in communication with the
Italian General Secretary. From the correspondence
which ensued it is very evident that the Italian
General Secretary not only had never formulated
22 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
such a demand, but that he did not even consider it
desirable. None the less, on your visit to Geneva
three weeks later, he yielded to your wish ”
(Mitteilungen, January 1913, p. 16).
Mrs Besant’s letter drew down upon her further
remonstrances from the Swiss lodges. She had
written that the formation of the Lugano Lodge
had been an act of aggression against Italy. It
was necessary to remind her that the charter
which she had herself issued to Dr Steiner when
he accepted the office of General Secretary assigned
to him “ Germany and Switzerland ” as his domain.
Further, in the same letter in which she denounces
this act of “aggression ” against Italy she confesses
that “ Lugano had been one of the foundation
lodges of the German Section,” thus showing that
the founding of the lodge had preceded the entry
of Dr Steiner into the Theosophical Society.
Here is an almost incredible collection of inexact
and contradictory statements of a most deplorable
character.
Yet this tone and attitude of Mrs Besant reveal
the real object of the Genevese tactics. Since the
attempted seizure of the Steiner lodges situated in
German Switzerland must be abandoned, at least
let there be an effort to “save ” the country still
only partially “invaded.” The use of the word
“invasion ” by Mrs Besant on the subject of the
foundation of the Neuch&tel Lodge by Dr Steiner
CONCERNING THE SWISS LODGES 23
(see Mitteilungen, xv. p. 4) shows clearly that all
later appearances of Dr Steiner upon Swiss territory
would have been characterised as an “invasion.”
If the Genevese dictatorship had triumphed, it is
evident that it was expected to strangle the Steiner
teaching in Switzerland, and to drive it back into
Germany.
I must not be blamed, as a member of the French
Section, for bearing arms in the dissensions of the
Swiss Section. Such reproach would be justified
only if the bond between members of the Theo-
sophical Society were other than a purely moral
one, and did not rest exclusively upon a common
ideal. On this ground, which gives the only real
meaning to the letters “M.T.S.,” none should remain
indifferent, seeing our President obstinately fixed in
her unjust view, in spite of the persistent resistance
of the Swiss lodges, tirelessly defending their moral
and material rights throughout a correspondence
covering two whole years. And I will define here,
as an instructive comparison, the attitude, true to
our motto, that we had the right to expect from Mrs
Besant in such a case. Even before the interven­
tion of the wronged Swiss lodges she should, from
the very start, have spontaneously condemned the
procedure of the founders of the Swiss Section,
and should have insisted on their considering and
providing for the rights of all classes of lodges.
On the contrary—and it is a profoundly regret-
24 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
table fact—Mrs Besant, even when urged to do so,
took no trouble to support the solution that good
feeling and justice alike dictated. It is true that
this solution would have involved freedom for the
spreading of Dr Steiner’s teaching in Switzerland.
THE CASE OF HERlt COltDES
Who could have imagined that even in Germany
attempts would be made to undermine, to impair,
and to destroy the teaching of Dr Steiner? Yet
just this is one of the saddest facts to have to
relate, for it reveals an increasing cruelty of
fanatical intolerance.
Mrs Besant attached to the German Section a
certain Herr Cordes, with what object will be seen
later.
By reason of the work that had been entrusted
to him, Herr Cordes wrote to a member of the
German Section, Herr Hubo, asking him for “ short
and concise news intended for publication, and
as much private and confidential information as
possible,” concerning which, in another part of his
letter, he promised the greatest discretion. Herr
Hubo interpreted the request for private and
confidential information, to be circulated privately,
as a suggestion dishonouring to himself. He
stigmatised it as an attempt at espionage, and
refused to have further dealings with Herr Cordes.
THE CASE OF HERR CORDES 25
Mrs Besant, in the Theosophist of October 1912,
without publishing Herr Cordes’ letter, wrote that
a request for information, warmly welcomed in
every other country in the spirit of international
theosophic solidarity, had elicited from a member
of the German Section the reply which she quoted.
She saw in it a malicious obstruction of her desire
for a closer union between the sections, and very
severely criticised Herr Ilubo’s letter. But she
passed over in silence the letter that had called
forth this reply. Not only did she leave it to be
supposed that in the German Section, unlike all the
other sections, friendly overtures were repulsed,
and upon the most flimsy pretexts, but she in
reality deliberately spread this false impression by
publishing a single, selected passage from Herr
Hubo’s letter, while omitting that of Ilerr Cordes
which had occasioned it. There can be here no
question of involuntary omission, for in Herr
Hubo’s letter the reference to Herr Cordes’implied
insinuation in asking for “ private and confidential ”
information occurs in the line directly above that
quoted by Mrs Besant in her article in the
Theosophist! The German Section has since
published both letters in full (Mitteilungen, xiv.,
December 1912). Mrs Besant, informed of these
facts by Herr Hubo on 14th November, has not yet
seen fit to rectify her statements.
It is impossible to hide from oneself the import
26 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
of such facts. These are actions of a character
wholly and completely contrary to truth, impossible
of any other interpretation, though one spent hours,
as I have done, seeking in the mind some means
of escape from pronouncing upon Mrs Besant
a judgment whose words would echo almost as a
profanation in a heart still devoted to yesterday’s
ideal. But, alas! facts are facts, and our inquiry
must be resumed.
THE CASE OF DR VOLLRATH
In 1908 the Executive Committee of the German
Section felt itself compelled to expel Dr Vollrath
from the Section.
The latter appealed to Mrs Besant, and included in
his exaggerated account of the matter accusations
against Dr Steiner analogous to those which he pub­
lished later in a virulent pamphlet in Germany.
Mrs Besant sent this report to Dr Steiner, who
replied to her with a detailed refutation of the
charges made against him by Dr Vollrath. On
18th March 1909 Mrs Besant replied to Dr Steiner:
“ I, as President of the T.S., having been appealed
to by Dr Vollrath, of Leipzig, against his expulsion
by the German Section T.S., and having heard all
particulars thereof, decide that his expulsion from
the German T.S. is valid” (Mitteilungen, xiv.,
December 1912).
THE CASE OF DR VOLLRATH 27
In the summer of 1911 Mrs Besant nominated
Dr Yollrath to a post of honour in the Order of
the Star in the East, in Germany.
The German Section considered this action as
an adverse criticism on its decisions and as a vote
of censure on its General Secretary, unjustly
attacked in the charges made by Dr Yollrath. To
this attitude assumed by the German Section Mrs
Besant replied on 8th May 1912, writing to its
sectional organ, Mitteilungen (xiv., December 1912),
as follows: “ Expulsion from a Section does not
carry with it expulsion from the T.S.; I was not
asked to ratify it, thus making it an expulsion
from the T.S.; Dr Vollratli made no appeal to me;
hence I had no duty to look into the rights or
wrongs of the matter, and to this day I do not
know them. The whole attack on Adyar is not
fair, for the Adyar Executive has had no knowledge
of, and has done nothing about, either Dr Vollrath
or the Order."
It is quite clear how the trouble arose: Mrs
Besant’s letters of 18th March 1909 and of 8th
May 1912 contradict each other. If she really
wrote both, it only remains for her to admit that
the remembrance of a moral judgment, which was
at the same time an administrative act, had com­
pletely passed out of her mind. For in 1909 she
stated : “ On receipt of an appeal from Dr Vollrath,
and having heard all particulars thereof”; and in
28 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
1912 she wrote: “Dr Vollrath made no appeal
to me; hence I had no duty to look into the
rights and wrongs of the matter. . . . The Adyar
Executive has had no knowledge of, and has
done nothing about, either Dr Vollrath or the
Order.’*
Mrs Besant, without for a moment denying that
she is the author of these two contradictory letters,
yet cannot bring herself to confess her “ forgetful­
ness,” established so clearly as to be beyond
question. If she had merely refused to admit
this, things would not have been so serious as they
now are; of this one can judge by Mrs Besant’s
reply. In a circular letter of 12th January 1913
(.Bulletin Thtosopliiquefran$ais, March 1913), after
the statement that she “desired to call attention to
the clever way in which Dr Steiner distorted the
facts,” she printed the same letters from which we
have quoted, but she changed the whole question.
She completely “ forgot ” the point at issue, and
directed the whole of her efforts to re-establish a
point that had never been in question, and was
not of the smallest interest in the controversy, since
all had been in agreement upon it from thefirst:
to wit, that she had never sanctioned the expulsion
of Dr Vollrath from the Theosophical Society at
large, but only from the German Section. She
wrote: “ It is evident that in the phrase, ' I was
not asked to confirm it,’ the ‘it ’ refers to the
THE CA8E OF DR VOLLRATH 29
expulsion from the T.S.” And later: “ Dr Vollrath
had never appealed to me against his expulsion
from the German Section, and his letters refer
only to that.” The italics are Mrs Besant’s. There
can bo no question that she shows with complete
success that her letter is sufficiently precise, and
that the expulsion from the German Section alone
is declared valid. But in choosing this method of
defence, surely feeble enough, she forgets once
more, unfortunately for her cause, that she had
written, in the second of these contradictory letters,
the following words, which entirely give her case
away: “ The Adyar Executive has had no know­
ledge of, and has done nothing about, either Dr
Vollrath or the Order.”
Lastly, what then would be the meaning of such
words if they were not to indicate as complete a
forgetfulness of the expulsion from the German
Section as from the Theosophical Society as a
whole? Once reading is enough to make up
one’s mind irrevocably. And how dare Mrs
Besant at the present time lend herself to this
unworthy raising of a false issue ? Fortunately
this latter has but served the more clearly to show
her undeniable wrong-doing, while unfortunately
adding to it.
Such forgetfulness is strikingly apparent, yet
Mrs Besant would have us ignore it, and expects to
escape its consequences by stating simply, after
30 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
this shirking of the real issue, that "nothing further
has happened.”
It is impossible to share her opinion, for what
has happened is that Mrs Besant has been guilty
of an inconceivable forgetfulness, placing her in an
insulting attitude towards the German Section and
its General Secretary. This forgetfulness and the
inevitable friction resulting from it are proved be­
yond question. Here was a case of being caught
flagrante delicto, if ever there was one. Yet Mrs
Besant refuses to acknowledge these self-evident
facts. Instead of an honest acknowledgment, which
would seem the sole resource in such a case, she
insults Dr Steiner by reproaching him with " his
clever way of distorting facts.” There may have
been “forgetfulness” when, in 1912, she gave the
lie to her letter of 1909—serious certainly, but not
an infamous forgetfulness. To-day this forgetful­
ness, denied in face of the strongest evidence, must
inevitably appear as studied ill-will. And the
“ clever way ” in which Mrs Besant substitutes an
imaginary question for the one painfully at issue
becomes in our eyes “ a distortion of the facts ” the
more deplorable since it serves as pretext for
the unmerited insult cast upon Dr Steiner. The
accusation implied in it would be the one most
naturally used in characterising Mrs Besant’s own
procedure — and, in this case, not because an
opponent, annoyed at being found in the wrong,
SUPPRESSION OF THE CONGRESS AT GENOA 31
bestows it gratuitously, but because the indestruct­
ible evidence of facts proclaims it, whether we are
willing to look them in the face or not.
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE CONGRESS
AT GENOA
In connection w
T
ith the incident referred to in
the above title, Mrs Besant again accuses Dr Steiner
of distorting facts.
The suppression of the Congress to be held at
Genoa had necessitated the sending of a telegram
by Professor Penzig, the Italian General Secretary,
to Dr Steiner notifying him of the fact and
alleging the reason. This telegram ran as follows :
“ Have acted under strict orders from the President
and from Wallace, Secretary of the Federation;
apply to them officially.”
In the Bolletino, official organ of the Italian
Section, October 1911, Dr Penzig gives an account
of the situation unexpectedly caused on the eve of
the Congress by two telegrams from Mrs Besant.
One stated that she was not attending, “ without a
word of explanation,” according to Dr Penzig; the
second, received the day following, said : “ President
confirms her telegram abandoning Congress.”
It is not necessary to repeat here the full text of
Dr Penzig’s article, since he thus summed it up in
his concluding words: “ There was then nothing to
32 MRS BESANT ANT) THE PRESENT CRISIS
be done but to accept the joint decision of the
President and the Secretary of the Federation,
and to carry it out with all speed ; I, therefore,
telegraphed at once to all the General Secretaries of
the European Sections, etc., etc. . . Dr Steiner’s
speech to the Convention of the German Section,
which took place on 10th December 1911, contained
no allusion to the Congress at Genoa, nor to its
abandonment. This speech is published in full in
Mitteihmgen, xiii., March 1912. But Dr Steiner
was only acting in accordance with his duty in
replying to the request of a member, apropos of
the sum of 789 mks. allotted to the Genoa
Congress, as to “why that Congress had been
countermanded at the last moment, and when the
majority of the members attending were already
en route for Italy” (Mitteilungen, xiii., March
1912, p. 7). Manifestly Dr Steiner could but quote
Professor Penzig’s telegram: “ Have acted upon
strict orders, etc.” What other information could
he have given ? He was in possession of no other,
and the article in the Bolletino of October 1911
contained nothing to invalidate this telegram. He
recalled at the same time the origin of the inter­
national Congresses and their complete autonomy as
regards the President of the Theosophical Society.
He added that the countermanding of the Congress
was valid, ar being notified by the Italian Section,
but remained inexplicable.
SUPPRESSION OF THE CONGRESS AT GENOA 33
Such are the actual and precise facts, as borne
out by documentary evidence.
In consequence of this communication to the
German Section, Mrs Besant accused Dr Steiner of
wrongly attributing to her the suppression of the
Congress at Genoa. But it was not till the 23rd
November 1912 that Professor Penzig corrected his
telegram and his article in the Bolletino, in a
letter addressed to Dr Steiner and published in
Mitteilungen, xv., January 1913. I oxtract the
important passages: “ Your criticisms of Mrs
Besant rest entirely upon the telegram sent by me
to you at Munich, on lltli September, in reply to
your telegraphed query, and which said, ‘Have
acted on the strict orders of the President, etc.’;
but Mrs Besant has lately1 written on several
occasions (Theosophist, August 1912, and on p. 12
of her last circular) that she had not given such
orders. She says on this subject (Theosophist):
*I did not even suggest the cancellation, nor should
I have dreamed of taking such a liberty. All I
did was to say that I was sorry to be unable to
attend.’” Dr Penzig continues, explaining that the
telegram from Mrs Besant, “ President confirms
telegram abandoning Congress,” was not clear,
and might all the more easily suggest the idea
of suppressing the Congress, as he lmd given
precisely this meaning to the word “ abandon ” in
1 This word is not in italics in the original.
3
34 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
a telegram preceding that of Mrs Besant, and
addressed to her by himself as an interrogation:
“ I, therefore, consider it preferable to abandon the
Congress. Please confirm.” Professor Penzig then
goes on to say: “ It was this which induced me
on the day following to telegraph you, employing
the phrase ‘strict orders,’ based on a false inter­
pretation of Mrs Besant’s telegram. The major
portion of the responsibility for suppressing the
Genoa Congress is therefore mine and not Mrs
Besant’s.”
All this is quite clear and shows that Professor
Penzig himself, till recently, when Mrs Besant
wrote to the contrary, believed in all good faith
that it was she who had suppressed the Congress.
His article in the Bolletino plainly shows this.
How was it possible not to believe it ?
If Mrs Besant had really desired the Congress
to take place, would she not have especially
protested against Professor Penzig’s suggestion
to suppress it solely because of her absence ?
Since Dr Penzig had carried deference to the
extreme limits revealed in such a proposal, was it
not Mrs Besant’s obvious duty to warmly encourage
him in proceeding with the Congress ? Otherwise
we are compelled, in strict impartiality, to attribute
its suppression to Mrs Besant’s attitude. But
instead of formally advising its continuance, or at
least clearing herself of the responsibility should
SUPPRESSION OF THE CONGRESS AT GENOA 35
it be suppressed in spite of her, what does she do ?
She sends a telegram so ambiguously worded
that Professor Penzig cannot even see in it any
other interpretation than the suppression of the
Congress. He believed in all good faith that she
had intended to suppress it, until the date on which
she wrote to the contrary. So true is this that we
seek in vain in his articles in the BoUetino for
even the slightest trace of hesitation in Dr
Penzig’s mind as to the meaning of the presidential
telegram. In effect, Dr Penzig had asked for con­
firmation of his proposal to abandon the Congress,
using this word in the sense of suppreasion, and
the reply was: “ President confirms her telegram
abandoning Congress.” Certainly in his place we
should all have understood and acted as he did.
Besides, to be quite fair, it must be admitted
that the first suggestion to suppress the Congress,
emanating from Dr Penzig and submitted to
Mrs Besant in his telegram quoted above, cannot
be wholly attributed to his initiative, although he
first formulated it. What arc we to think of the
intentions of the President, who informs him of her
proposed absence “ without a word of explanation ” ?
Why did she not convey at the same time to the
members and organisers of the Congress those
good wishes that her interest in the theosophic
cause and mero ordinary civility would alike
demand, if she expected the Congress to take place ?
36 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
Those who are aware of the care which Mrs
Besant habitually bestows on matters of this kind,
and who at the same time appreciate the faultless
precision of our President’s verbal style, will feel
that Dr Penzig’s loyalty of heart and directness of
thought could not hesitate for a moment in the
interpretation of these telegrams, whether it was
a question of their literal or their implied meaning.
If Mrs Besant had really desired that the Congress
should take place, the brevity of her two telegrams
and the ambiguity of the second were and remain
inexplicable. The text of the first has never been
published.
On the other hand, all becomes clear if to the
above we add a single fact: in case Mrs Besant
had wished that the Congress should not take
place, she was prevented saying so openly and
definitely, the decision in such a matter being
entirely outside her province.
Supposing for the moment that she did desire
this suppression; her brevity favoured the ambi­
guity, and the latter was a necessity, since open
proposal’ would have really constituted abuse of
power.
Be it remembered that at this Genoa Congress,
which Mrs Besant could not attend, Dr Steiner
was to hold several meetings—amongst a large
gathering of members coming from many lands—
and we shall understand that Mrs Besant, hostile,
SUPPRESSION OP THE CONGRESS AT GENOA 37
as we have seen, to the spreading of Dr Steiner’s
teaching, would prefer the Congress not to take
place. She had, indeed, special reasons for so
wishing. One of the subjects chosen by Dr Steiner
was “The Christ of the Twentieth Century,” and
the teaching promulgated by Dr Steiner holds the
“ coming of the Christ,” announced by Mrs Besant,
to be in the highest degree improbable. Perhaps
Dr Steiner might succeed in spreading his views
in other sections, since he had so entirely convinced
the German Section; and in this case Mrs Besant’s
message and her prestige would necessarily sufler.
So we see that she had very excellent reasons for
expecting Dr Steiner would gain new ground, the
more especially since she could not, in her absence,
oppose to this her personal influence. So step by
step we come to see how she could, in the wording
of her telegrams, suggest and encourage the sup-
pressingof a Congress that she was prevented openly
suppressing. And she acted, moreover, in this way
under the most aggravating circumstances; for
from all parts numbers of members were already
cn route for Genoa, having already left America,
Russia, Holland, England, Scandinavia, Germany,
and France.
Mrs Besant, moreover, perfectly understood what
she had done. She so clearly realised the awkward­
ness of the position that she has never dared to
mention the suppression of the Congress in the
38 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
Theosophist, where ordinarily she passes in review
each month even the most insignificant happenings
of the movement. Never has she given one word
of explanation or shown the least curiosity regard­
ing the suppression of the Congress.
And yet—os she seems sure that she was not
the author of this suppression—was it not one
of the most interesting and important questions
to elucidate ? I still recall my disappointment
in looking through the Theosophist of November
1911, the first number that could contain informa­
tion, and not finding a single word on the subject;
and what a painful impression was added to this
by the string of trivial details retailed by Mrs
Besant in the same number: “ The dairy and
bakery are in full swing, but, to my great dis­
appointment, the grinding and kneading machines
purchased by me last July have not yet arrived—
a not very creditable fact as regards the firm
supplying—or not supplying them. I feel inclined
to name them. . .
Other numbers followed, futilities of the same
untheosophical kind, alas! flowing from the pen of
Mrs Besant; and yet up to the present she has not
expressed one iota of concern as to the Genoa
Congress, or one word of regret either for the
members who made long journeys at great expense,
or for the Genoa theosophists, who had all the
profitless labour of organisation. Against all these
SUPPRESSION OF THE CONGRESS AT GENOA 39
rightful interests, against the real interests of Theo­
sophy under its many aspects, the fear of seeing
the influence of Dr Steiner increase seems to have
completely prevailed.
Such, we find, is the real situation if we look at
the facts. Up to the present, while assuming the
“ major portion ” of responsibility in the suppression
of the Congress at Genoa, Dr Penzig, in spite of
his great deference for Mrs Besant, has still left
to her “a certain portion ” of responsibility; the
laws of mathematics speak through his words.
Such in reality is the state of affairs. Under
the circumstances, is it fair to spread it abroad
that Dr Steiner distorts the facts concerning the
Genoa Congress ? is it fair to say that he wrong­
fully pretends that Mrs Besant suppressed the
Congress ? Since Dr Penzig, with perhaps an
excessive generosity, accepts the responsibility
incumbent on him, he should not allow Mrs Besant
to spread these reports; he ought to say, “ Dr
Steiner, informed as he was by my telegraphic
message of ‘strict orders,’ could not speak other­
wise than he has done; and if his mistake was
prolonged, it was because I delayed till 23rd
November 1912 to send him a letter of correction.”
But if Dr Penzig did not say this, and did not
earlier correct his first message, it is because he
never for a moment doubted that Mrs Besant had
really suppressed the Congress, until the moment
40 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
when she wrote it in the Theosophist; and eveh
now, in spite of his devotion to Mrs Besant, he
refuses to accept the entire responsibility.
It is regrettable thus to see the blame once
more given to Dr Steiner, while the facts place it
on those who accuse him. And in this case our
inquiry reveals facts against Mrs Besant far more
serious than those with which she charges Dr
Steiner in connection with this Congress. We see
that his statements were in accordance with strict
truth, while, in spite of her denials, facts convict
Mrs Besant of having desired and effected the
suppression of this Congress in spite of the interests
of Theosophy, and of having used all her skill to
bring about and at the same time to conceal this
abuse of power.
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN
SECTION
Let us set aside all the minor annoyances, whether
of greater or less importance, and examine the final
episode in this war against Dr Steiner, since that
also has taken place before our eyes. It is sum­
marised in a document drawn up by Adyar, charge
and verdict in one. The following are the four
counts upon which the Charter was withdrawn
from the German Section, notified in a letter of
Mrs Besant to Dr Steiner, dated 14th January
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 41
1913, and published in the March number of the
French Sectional organ:
I. Refusal to grant a Charter to a lodge in
Gottingen.
II. Refusal to grant a Charter to a lodge in
Leipzig.
III. Proposal excluding members of the Order of
the Star in the East from meetings of the Section.
IV. Failure of the General Secretary to reply to
letters from the President informing him of the
requests received in conformity with article 31 of
the rules, and demanding the rules of his Section.
On account of these complaints, touching the
General Secretary alone—it is easy to discover
this,—2400 members have been expelled from our
Society.
This is an act of the most flagrant injustice
towards them that nothing can ever justify. For
such expulsion rests on four pretended transgres­
sions on the part of the General Secretary. He
alone should have been held responsible, and
demand made to the German Section to replace
him, before any proceedings were taken against
it. Why were such steps not taken ? Because
once again the simple truth of the matter is not
stated. The four grievances alleged are not the
actual reasons for this expulsion. The real cause
at the back of this measure was a telegram, signed
by the twenty-eight members of the Executive
42 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
Committee of the German Section, accusing Mrs
Besant of certain statements contrary to truth.
This same telegram contained the notification of
the intended publication of documents justifying
this serious charge. It became obvious that ex­
planations would have to be made, and it was
foreseen that they would not be easy. On the
other hand, all would be settled by expelling the
German Section, as was done before the arrival of
the announced documents.
Such was the action of the Executive of a
Society whose motto places Truth above all. It
punished 2400 members en bloc befcn'e hearing
them. Yet they had against Mrs Besant com­
plaints in support of which they held still more
proofs than those enumerated in this inquirj7
.
The four official grievances cannot for a moment
be regarded seriously. For instance, is it necessary
to recall the fact that some years ago Mrs Besant
instituted an unattached Section, in direct rela­
tionship with Adjmr, and especially formed to
provide for members whose diversity of view
alienated them from their own national Section ?
This being so, was not Dr Steiner exercising a
wise foresight in refraining from incorporating
within his Section the two isolated lodges whose
Charter he had refused to sign, since it was
notorious that these lodges were in opposition to
himself, his teaching, and to the Section ? It is
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 43
sufficient for anyone to read the brochure pub­
lished by the president of one of them, and the
scurrilous pamphlet launched against Dr Steiner
by Dr Vollrath, to be convinced that co-operation
was outside the bounds of possibility. Yet did
Dr Steiner object when Mrs Besant granted a
Charter to one of these lodges, attaching it directly
to Adyar and welcoming it within the body of
the Theosophical Society ?
Certainly not: he recognised that the banner of
the Theosophical Society could not only cover the
two teachings, but even those who sought to injure
him, who criticised his teachings, attributed to him
assertions that he had never made, and while quot­
ing his statements distorted them (see the account
of these matters in Mitteilungen, March 1913).
He has never raised the least objection to their
presence in the Theosophical Society or to the exist­
ence of their lodges in Germany. And we are forced
to admit that, in view of the unspeakable conduct of
certain of these members, this tolerance marks an act
of very real generosity and forbearance. Why, it
may be asked, has not Dr Steiner carried such
generosity to the point of admitting these members
and those of the Order of the Star in the East into
the German Section ?
In view of the manner in which they have
publicly opposed him in all he says and does, there
can be no doubt that these detractors and publishers
44 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
of falsified statements would have systematically
disturbed the work of the lodges. And since they
were at the same time the officials of the Order of
the Star in the East in Germany . . .! 1
Mrs Besant did not even trouble to state that
the resolution excluding members of the Star in
the East from meetings of the German Section
expressly affirmed that it was not on account of
divergent views or teachings, but was due to the
attitude of their Committee, which was incom­
patible with the first object of the Theosophical
Society. As if this were not the very cause of
their exclusion, Mrs Besant declared in her Con­
vention speech that “ this expulsion is, of course,
invalid, as no member can be expelled from a
Section for his opinions, but the action shows that
liberty of thought is not permitted in the German
Section.”
Here as always is to be seen the same deliberate
prejudice, the same reckless travesty of facts.
Could Mrs Besant for one moment have freed
herself from her hostility to teachings opposed to
her own and pictured in her mind an actual lodge
meeting, she would assuredly have recognised that
the members of the Star in the East, whose whole
lives are set in the expectation of the immediate
return of the Christ in a physical body, could not
have associated with real profit in studies based
upon the teachings of Dr Steiner, centred as these
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 45
are in the conviction that such a return is im­
possible. Here, it seems to me, we have a fact
which supplies a convincing proof of the impossi­
bility of such co-operation.
Herr Htibbe-Schleiden, head of the Star in the
East, requested that Dr Steiner should avoid the
use of the word “Christ ” to denote the Christ,
since Mrs Besant used it to indicate the Bodhisattva
(Mitteilungen, March 1913, p. 6). Incredible as it
seems, it was nevertheless suggested to Dr Steiner
to dissociate from the name of Jesus of Nazareth
its age-long meaning, and so make him a party to
the disastrous fiction evolved by Mrs Besant, of
which more anon. And in face of this we are
asked to believe that they fteriously desired to
share in the work of lodges inspired by Dr
Steiner’s teaching.
In spite of this attitude and of these absurd
claims, Dr Steiner has never attempted to withhold
from either the one or the other their right to be
members of the Theosophical Society. If he has en­
deavoured to assure the peaceful working of the
lodges of which he is teacher, such was primarily
his duty. It was also his right, since the un­
attached Section was intended for such members
as were not in agreement with their national
Section. This Section was founded by Mrs Besant
herself at a time when her own procedure had
failed to win the support of all the members, with
46 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
the object of preventing the resignation en masse
of those who disapproved of the invitation
tendered to Mr Leadbeater to return to the Society.
By this course she then lessened her responsibility.
But how much more has she not aggravated it
to-day, when the unattached Section exists, by
throwing out 2400 members whose position corre­
sponds exactly to the conditions of such a Section,
even if all the grievances formulated against them
were justified!
There exist in each country individuals or groups
of members thus directly attached to Adyar. In
Germany itself (see Mitteilungen, March 1913)
two lodges, founded by an old member of the Dutch
Section with the object of working solely according
to the Besant-Leadbeater occultism, ended by
attaching themselves directly to Adyar, their con­
victions, entirely at variance with those of the
German Section, suggesting the need of an inde­
pendent position. Not only, then, has Dr Steiner
willingly permitted such independent activity, but
he raised no protest when one of these lodges, that
had excluded Dr Steiner’s books from its pro­
gramme of study, wrote to the presidents of certain
German lodges with the object of uniting those
theosophists who might bo in sympathy with this
policy. Under what plausible pretext were hostile
colleagues to be imposed on the German lodges,
thus denying to them the independence that was
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 47
permitted to their opponents when they chose to
claim it?
The problem would be obscure, insoluble even,
had not Mrs Besant’s speeches at the Conventions
of 1911 and 1912, her attitude towards the Swiss
lodges, her whole policy in reference to the Genoa
Congress, revealed her real intentions. It was the
suppression of Dr Steiner’s teaching within the
Theosophical Society, even within the German
Section itself, which has in fact been aimed at.
Thus, under cover of an unsupported accusation,
collapsing before our eyes, the Charter of the
German Section is withdrawn, its members being
irksome on account of their heterodoxy: the
Besant-Leadbeater orthodoxy alone being hence­
forth tolerated.
Is further proof needed ? In the Theosophist
of January 1913 (consequently printed in the
December preceding), before the General Council
had demanded the expulsion of the German
theosophists, before the receipt of their emphatic
telegram, Mrs Besant wrote: “ How much better
it would be for us all if they frankly and honestly
withdrew!”
But the climax was reached when she dared
announce the withdrawal of the German Charter
in her Convention speech at Adyar, actually before
the General Council had decided. She proclaims
it herself in a note to page 7 of the Supplement to
48 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
the Theosophi8t, February 1913, referring to the
announcement of withdrawal in her address: “The
General Council has asked me to adopt this
measure since these lines were written.—A.B.” A
true autocrat, Mrs Besant proclaims the decisions
of the Executive Committee before they have been
made.
Mrs Besant appears as if driven on this most
disastrous course by the impulsion of an irresistible
force, overthrowing everything in her passage.
Had she reflected, she would have recalled to her
memory the wise advice of her friend, Mr Bhagavan
Das, General Secretary of the Indian Section,
before sacrificing for a few turbulent spirits of the
Star in the East 2400 inoffensive theosophists. A
compact, signed by Mrs Besant and Mr Bhagavan
Das, had just ended a campaign, carried on for over
eight months, in the pages of the principal theo-
sophical organ in India (Theosophy in India).
The following lines, taken from this document,
which appeared in the September-October number,
p. 203, suffice to indicate the nature of the questions
raised: “ We agree that any activity which tends
to . . . turn questions of the broad policy of the
T.S. into questions of personal loyalty or disloyalty
to one or other worker of the T.S. is a violation
of the fundamental principles of the T.S. The
difference is that, while the President of the T.S.
looks on the Order of the Star in the East move-
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 49
ment with strong approval, the General Secretary
of the Indian Section thinks that the active pro­
pagation of and proselytisation to any person-cult
or new religion, or embryo of a new religion (such
as the O.S.E. has been declared to be by the P.T.S.)
—if carried on within the T.S.—is also a violation
of the fundamental principles of the T.S. . . .”1
Yet this opposition on the part of the Indian
General Secretary is neither systematic nor
personally unfriendly. This is made clear in the
article quoted earlier. Mrs Besant and Mr
Bhagavan Das write: “ We are cordially at one
in our wish and determination that difference of
opinion shall not interfere with our affectionate
friendship for each other.”
The old and close tie existing between them is
known to all who have followed the history of the
Theosophical Society. Moreover, Mr Bhagavan
Das was not only General Secretary of the Indian
Section, of which he has been a member for over
twenty-seven years: he is a man widely appreciated
in the Society, and especially so by Mrs Besant
herself. On many occasions she has expressed her
profound admiration for his works, The Science of
Peace and The Science of the Emotions.
1 T he a rticle s of M r B hagavan D as in the Ju ly , A ugust, and
O ctober n u m b ers of 7'heosojihy v i India contain a clear and
profoundly a ttra c tiv e exposition, leading iuovitably to th is
conclusion.
4
50 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
The Indian Section contains a far larger
membership than any of the other Sections. From
it there have been 700 resignations in consequence
of the position taken up by Mrs Besant.1 If to
this number we add the 2400 German theosophists,
and if we consider the hearty agreement felt by
large numbers of theosophists in almost all the
Sections with Mr Bhagavan Das’s criticisms, or
with the attitude of the German Section, we may
claim that a very considerable proportion are in
opposition to Mrs Besant, protesting for various
reasons against the Star in the East. Yet Mrs
Besant sets at nought all these warnings.
A yet further fact will show to what extent Mrs
Besant, in acting as she has done, has disregarded the
most elementary laws of justice. It is Mrs Besant’s
duty to guard against the rules of any Section being
contrary to the Constitution of the Theosophical
Society. We should, therefore, not expect to find
rules approved by her, and formulated by a
Section entirely devoted to her, arrogating to that
Section rights contrary to the Constitution. Yet
the following is to be found in the Rules of the
French Section (article 8): " If the conduct of a
member be of such a nature as to involve his
expulsion from the Society, such action should
be submitted to the consideration of the Council,
1 T h is in fo rm atio n is su pplied by M r C ollison in
M tU eilungen, A p ril 1913, p. 23.
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 51
whose decision shall be decisive and without appeal
should there be unanimity among the members
present or absent, these being duly consulted. In
case a unanimous decision be not arrived at, the
accused shall have the right of appeal to the
decision of an extraordinary general meeting,
which should be called with the least possible
delay, and before which he may present himself or
may be represented.” When, after a long and
successful career, the French Section, in 1908,
revised its rules in order to secure legal standing
ns a society, it showed by such provision its desire
to safeguard its past and future work against all
those who might prove a source of difficulty or
danger. It would hardly be possible to secure such
protection more effectually than by deciding that
any expulsion carried unanimously by the Council
should be decisive and without appeal. The
Cerman Section would then have had the right,
basing its decision on article 8 of the rules of the
French Section of the Theosophical Society, to
refuse even to Mrs Besant—which it did not do—
any explanations concerning the exclusions un­
animously decided by its Committee.
Whichever way we turn, the facts bear witness
against Mrs Besant, bringing against her crushing
accusations, pronouncing upon her severest judg­
ment. Wc see, alas! what has been the true
source of all these occurrences, the real cause of the
52 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
General Council’s decision—Mrs Besant’s over­
bearing personal desire to be free of the Steinerite
theosophists.
Have they, on their side, shown an equally
strong desire to leave the Theosophical Society ?
On the contrary. Their views on the subject
can be read in a report of three meetings of the
German Section called for the purpose of consider­
ing the question of the formation of a “League,”
and published in the 1'heosophist, December 1912.
This report is anonymous, and is characterised, in
the opinion of those present at the meetings, by a
manifest partiality. Whatever would tell against
Mrs Besant is simply omitted. The following is
an instance of this method of procedure.
Frl. v. Sivers’ speech is summarised in a single
line, and simply states that she spoke of the
difficulties experienced by Dr Steiner in the first
meetings held by him abroad. What she had
actually told the meeting was that on one of these
occasions chance had placed in her hands a second
circular, different from that sent to the members
of the German Section. This circular, distributed
to the general public during the meetings, contained
a biographical sketch, not included in the other
circular, representing Dr Steiner as a penitent
materialist, converted to Theosophy . . . by
reading Mrs Besant’s books! All quite inaccurate,
but calculated to assign to Mrs Besant, in the
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 53
mind of the reader, the position of occult
investigator and actual teacher, and to Dr Steiner
that of a mere propagandist of her ideas. The
good faith of the organisers of these meetings
could in no wise be doubted; they simply might
have been misinformed. Dr Steiner had never
taken exception to this, and Frl. v. Sivers
mentioned the fact only to compare the conciliatory
attitude of the German Section, that had never
raised any difficulty on the subject, to the
combative attitude of Mrs Besant, who in her
Convention speech at Adyar in 1911 dared to
complain of the "aggre.ssive partisans” of Dr
Steiner, without citing a single fact in evidence of
this accusation. Here again this matter is referred
to merely to show the manifest one-sidedness of
the information given in the Theosopliist. It is
indeed sad to think that it is by aid of such
mutilated and distorted accounts that Mrs Besant
instructs the members of our Society.
The report mentioned above acquaints us, never­
theless, with a very interesting fact. It proves
that not a single member of the Qerman Section
who spoke at these meetings pyroposed that they
should separate from the T.S.; on the contrary,
every member who discussed the question declared
his or her attachment to the T.S.
Herr Bauer, member of the Executive Com­
mittee of the Section: “The Society as such is
54 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
not opposed to liberty, and we ought not then to
leave it.”
Frl. v. Sivers: “The independent work of the
German Section does not seem to be liked;
extensive propaganda is made against us by means
of pamphlets, etc.; new lodges to supersede us are
artificially created, and these have almost reached
the requisite number; nevertheless we will try to
remain.”
Dr Unger, president of the meeting and prospec­
tive president of the League in process of formation:
“ Our movement is in no way directed against the
T.S.; it is in harmony with it. There is therefoi'e
no reason why we should leave the Society. . . .”
Dr Steiner: “ We shall not leave the T.S. unless
we are forced to do so."
Dr Unger: “ We will resist with all our strength
if attempts are made to expel us from the T.S."
The most authoritative voices in the German
Section had thus expressed their devotion to the
T.S., and Mrs Besant could not ignore it. It must
also be admitted that they had also shown how
keenly they felt Mrs Besant’s underhand intrigues.
Mrs Besant turned a deaf ear to all this; she had
resolved to make a clean sweep of all who opposed
her own exclusive domination within the T.S., and
to this ambition she sacrificed the German Section.
What is supremely touching is the comparison
of Dr Steiner’s attitude after the expulsion with
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 55
this cruel persecution. The German Section had
never been accused of anything save of sending out
of its lodges certain members who had undertaken
a campaign against its General Secretary and
teacher, and who ridiculed the whole Section.
Dr Htibbe-Schleiden, head of the Star in the East
in Germany, for instance, wrote that one sought
vainly within the German Section for a member
who did not imitate Dr Steiner faithfully or who
did not repeat word for word what he said; that
the branches were ruled autocratically, like dioceses
by their bishops, etc. (See Die Botschaft des
Friedcns,and Mitteilungen, March and April 1913.)
But we know that at the same time the German
Section explicitly and very willingly recognised
the rights of these members to be in the T.S. and
to cover with their lodges the whole of German
territory, if attaching themselves directly to Adyar.
Mrs Besant’s reply to this attitude has been,
as we see, expulsion—from the Society itself—of
2400 theosophists who had tried to maintain their
position.
What words did this unheard-of action call forth
from Dr Steiner ?
Let us read the Mitteilungen for March 1913,
p. 13: “ My dear friends, never having wished to
be sentimental, I especially desire to avoid it at
this particular moment, yet I can but tell you that
it is with a heavy heart that I leave the Theosophical
56 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
Society. . . . At this moment we are expelled, and
we can but declare that at any time we will work
anew with the T.S. when order has again been
re-established in it; for very truly we esteem and
honour the T.S., from which we are not separating
ourselves of our own will. . . .”
No one could read without emotion such noble
words, their nobility showing the clearer as we
see Mrs Besant’s attitude to the end. She has
expelled the German Section, but she is not yet
satisfied. She would take every precaution to
ensure that there shall not be the slightest inclina­
tion on the part of the faithful orthodox to
examine the banished teachings. To overcome her
adversary and to force him out of the T.S. she has
disparaged his teaching, and trammelled its spread
abroad, has suppressed it within the German
Section. To attain her end she has not hesitated
at personal calumny. As a final effort in the
supreme struggle, the teaching and the personality
of its author were once more overwhelmed in a
major excommunication. Mrs Besant wrote in the
Tlieosophist of January 1913: “In Germany the
Jesuits are working to secure the predominance of
Christianity in the T.S., thus distorting it into a
Christianising sect and making certain its rejection
in the East. They use their old weapons—mis­
representation, slander, false charges, all levelled
against the leaders of the movement they seek to
THE SUPPRESSION OF THE GERMAN SECTION 57
destroy. . . —an assertion as supremely false as
it is impolitic, since Dr Steiner, in hia lectures at
Karlsruhe on “From Jesus to the Christ,” given
in September 1911, denounced especially, in a
detailed exposition, the grave dangers involved in
the methods of occult development practised by the
Jesuits.
It would appear that nothing could stop Mrs
Besant in her fixed determination to alienate from
Dr Steiner all honour and sympathy within the
body of the T.S., to destroy his influence and
extirpate his teachings. For if “the Jesuits work
in Germany within the T.S.,” it is Steiner who is
incontestably the one inspirer of the work in the
German Section, and the tool, the straw man, of the
Jesuits, and as such necessarily contemptible, as all
are who hide their identity and their real aim.
In addition, the world-wide unpopularity of the
Jesuits themselves would tell against him, anger
and indignation would arise in upright souls
against the author of all these infamies called up
by Mrs Besant.
We see Dr Steiner beset on all sides, and if to­
day he seems to succumb under the weight of such
accumulated perfidies, it is because Mrs Besant,
powerful within the T.S. because of the confidence
won by her in the past, acts with an absolute
discretionary power. She is blindly followed and
obeyed on all sides by large numbers of noble souls
58 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
still dazzled in the present by what she was in the
past. But this statement of the facts, incontestable,
as is all true reality, positive and vital, is qualified
to enlighten all minds, since it can so easily be
checked, thanks to the documents published by the
German Section and the Swiss lodges. Further, it
is to be hoped that even those who are the most
devoted friends of Mrs Besant will discharge a
sacred debt and respond to her old exhortation.
The time has come to say all this is very, very
black. It would be a sacrilege to say all is white.
As Mrs Besant said herself, in condemning Mr
Leadbeater, it would increase her karma to follow
her blindly, it would be an irreparable blow to our
Theosophic Ideal.
MRS BESANTS “ RETURN OF THE
CHRIST”
FIRST PHASE
T h e re arises in connection with the above a
question far more important and far more serious
than any of the preceding ones—a question which
will awaken a tragic echo in our hearts if wo at
all measure its import. Mrs Besant is not only the
President of the Theosophical Society; she is also a
teacher, listened to, obeyed, venerated. The careless
inaccuracies, the false insinuations, the deliberate
travesties of Truth—all these violations of our most
sacred principles admittedly only concern physical
plane contingencies. But we know, and Mrs Besant
will willingly repeat it now as always, that the
occultist must have a pure heart, a right will, a clear
and strong intelligence, if the results of his investiga­
tions are to be worthy of our confidence. At the
present time the mere enunciation of these moral and
intellectual qualifications of the occultist but serves
to raise a painful question. In acting as she has
60 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
done, has Mrs Besant disqualified the results of
her investigations ?
I will express no opinion. Once more it will be
advisable to consult facts; and since no true
teacher, no serious occultist, would any longer
ask in this age to be believed on his word merely,
but would himself ask those who hear him to
bring their logical faculty to bear on the facts he
advances, even the most fervent believers of Mrs
Besant should not protest against an examination
of this kind, especially as regards the central
claim of her spiritual message — the return of
the Christ. The immense importance of this
announcement, the dominant part it plays in
the activities of the President and of the Theo-
sophical Society, the considerable reaction it has
caused •outside the limits of the Society — all
these circumstances certainly justify the desire
for verification.
Is this possible ? Incontestably, if we confine
our inquiry solely to the materials furnished by
Mrs Besant and Mr Leadbeater; for they certainly
do not think there is any self-contradiction in
what they say, or any disagreement between their
statements. It is a totally different matter from
comparing their investigations with the statements
of other occultists: such a work would exceed the
limits of this inquiry, and so we leave it aside, in
spite of the illumination it would bring. We shall
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 61
content ourselves with uniting into an organic
whole the different statements of these two
occultists, who to strict and entire conformity of
views link a whole past of joint investigation, and
who claim a perfect agreement on all points of
their teachings. A comparison of this nature will
speedily satisfy us; it is sufficient to know of
whom Mrs Besant and Mr Leadbeater, on the one
hand, are thinking when speaking of the Christ,
and of whom, on the other hand, the faithful of
the Christian religions throughout the West are
thinking when pronouncing this name.
Concerning this, Mrs Besant instructs us on
p. 129 of Esoteric Christianity: “ The child whose
Jewish name has been turned into that of Jesus
was born in Palestine B.c. 105, during the con­
sulate of Publius Rutilius Rufus and Gnaeus
Mallius Maximus.”
Thus this child of whom Mrs Besant speaks
is not, then, the Jesus of the Gospel history,
since the life of this latter was lived a century
later.
The historical Jesus named the Christ, the
central figure of Christianity through all ages,
was born one hundred and five years later than
the Jesus of Mrs Besant. The facts associated
alike with the life of Christ and of his Apostles,
the witness of Tacitus, the agreement of all authors
concerning the historical dates, are opposed to the
62 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
clear and straightforward identification of the
Christ of the Gospels with the Jesus of Mrs Besant.
We will return to this point later on.
What activities do Mrs Besant’s investigations
ascribe to this century-earlier Jesus? In Esoteric
Christianity Mrs Besant is content to commentate
on the text of the Gospels from the point of view
of their esoteric teaching, without pronouncing on
the more or less historic fidelity of the accounts of
the life of Christ. But Mr Leadbeater has filled
in this lacuna in his book, The Inner Life, for this
is what we find on p. 183 of vol. i.: “ When we
examine clairvoyantly the life of the founder of
Christianity, for example, we can find no trace of
the alleged twelve apostles; it would seem that as
men they never existed, but that they were intro­
duced into the story for some reason—possibly to
typify the twelve signs of the zodiac.
“The truth is that the four gospels at any rate
were never intended to be taken os in any sense
historical. They are all founded upon a much
shorter document written in Hebrew by a monk
named Matthseus, who lived in a monastery in a
desert to the south of Palestine. He seems to have
conceived the idea of casting some of the great
facts of initiation into a narrative form and
mingling with it some points out of the life of the
real Jesus, who was born 105 B.c., and some from
the life of another quite obscure fanatical preacher
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST ” 63
who had been condemned to death and executed in
Jerusalem about 30 A.D.
“ He sent this document to a great friend of his
who was the chief abbot of a huge monastery at
Alexandria, and suggested to him that he, or some
of his assistants, might perhaps recast it, and issue
it in the Greek language. The Alexandrian abbot
seems to have employed a number of his young
monks upon this work, allowing each of them to
try the task for himself, and to treat it in his own
way. A number of documents of very varying
merit were thus produced, each incorporating in
his story more or less of the original manuscript of
Matthaous, hut each also adding to it such legends
as he happened to know, or as his taste and fancy
dictated. Four of these still survive to us, and to
them are attached the names of the monks who
wrote them, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.”
Even the most careless observer will recognise
that the personality referred to by Mrs Besant and
Mr Leadbeater cannot be the one referred to in
the Gospels.
In fact, the Jesus of Mrs Besant and Mr Lead-
beater had lived one hundred and five years before
the Christ of the Gospels. Examined by the aid of
Mr Leadbeater’s clairvoyance, no trace is to be
found of the twelve apostles. Their real existence
is denied ; “ they were introduced into the story for
some reason.
64 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
The Gospels would mainly consist of a theoretic
account of certain facts relative to the initiations,
coloured by events relating to an earlier Jesus, that
is to say, a Jesus non-existent for Christianity.
Still further, those events which already concern
another Jesus are mixed with the life of an
obscure fanatic, with chance legends and the
fantastic imaginings of young monks.
Mr Leadbeater tells us this is “ the Truth ” for
him: and, we may add, for Mrs Besant also.
They both speak of the same Christ, for on p. 30
of the same work Mr Leadbeater writes: “ As to
the approaching advent of the Christ and the
work which he has to do, you cannot do better than
read Mrs Besant’s book on The Changing Wcn'ld.
The time of his advent is not far distant, and the
very body which he will take is even already
born among us.”
Which is this body ?
In an account of an interview, that very Parisian
review, Je sais tout, of 13th November 1912, informs
its many readers in these words : “ The Teacher,
the Initiator to whom Commandant D. A.
Courmes1alludes, will reincarnate (but these things
must be spoken of with extreme reserve) [sic],
must incarnate, it is believed, in the person of the
young Hindu Krishnamurti, who is at this sacred
1 Editor of the Revue Thdosvphiqiie Frangaise, interviewed
by Je sais tout.
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 65
moment being prepared by the Heads of Theosophy.
All who have approached Krishnamurti look upon
him as a being of superior gifts and altogether
beyond ordinary humanity.”
These are without doubt the sincere beliefs of
M. D. A. CourmeB, as well as those of the " Heads
of Theosophy ” themselves, Mrs Besant and Mr
Leadbeater.
All know Krishnamurti and his mute and
decorative presence on the platform during Mrs
Besant’s lectures. On many occasions, in impas­
sioned language she has prepared the minds of her
audiences for this incarnation:—
“ And so one of the things from which you
should clear your minds, if your vision you
would have clear, will be every prejudice of race,
every prejudice of colour, all that pride that makes
you think the white man is the favourite of God,
and none other. Until that is thrust out of the
heart of every one of us, until we extend hands
not of patronage and condescension but of equal
brotherhood to men of every race and every colour,
may it not be that when the Christ is amongst us
we shall reject him because he is not of our
blood and kind ?” {The Immediate Future, p. 68).
Mrs Besant becomes more precise in her lecture
on “The Development of the Theosophical Society,”
which was printed in the Theosopliist^nd of which
I have before me the German translation published
5
6 6 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
in the German review Theosophia of December
1912, edited by Dr Hugo Vollrath, Leipzig. She
there writes: “ . . . Then comes the message of the
coming of the World-Teacher, the Christ, and the
training of his vehicles within the body of the
T.S. . .
The young Krishnamurti is, moreover, Head of
the Order of the Star in the East, an association
composed of those who believe in the immediate
coming of a divine Teacher, and he was worshipped
by a crowd of kneeling theosophists at Benares
during the Convention of 1911, as was announced
by the theosophical magazines of that date.
Mrs Besant herself wrote on this subject: “ All
who were present felt the might of the Power
manifested in their midst and knew that they
were facing not a Brahmana youth merely, but
one who, for the time, was the living temple of the
Holiest” (The Theosophiat, February 1912).
Mrs Besant, in bearing her message to the
theosophists of the West in 1911 and 1912, through
the medium of a whole series of lectures in London,
having as their main subject the “ Return of the
Christ,” spoke in the central lectures of these
courses, entitled “The Coming Christ ” or “ The
Coming of a World-Teacher,” such words, for
instance, as these: “The Supreme Teacher will
again ere very long be incarnate upon earth, again
made manifest as Teacher, again walking and
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 67
living amongst us, as last He walked in Palestine ”
(The Changing World, p. 153); or again: “ Shall
history here repeat itself, and the story of Judea,
Jerusalem,and even Calvary,once more be played? ”
(Immediate Future, p. 66).
Descriptions of other scenes from the Gospels
are scattered throughout these lectures.
Let us sum up all these pronouncements.
On the one side, the occult investigations of
Mrs Besant and Mr Leadbeater establish the
existence of an individual named Jesus, having
lived one hundred and five years before the Christ
of the Gospels, who was not surrounded by twelve
apostles, none of whom have consequently written
the Gospels. These would be a mere theory of
Initiation mixed with various fantastic stories
having no historical value. Thus we know nothing
of the Jesus to whom these two occultists refer in
their investigations—absolutely nothing. This is
established beyond question ; and we should not
even have known that the Jesus to whom they
refer ever existed had they not been at pains to
inform us.1 In any cose, his life on earth, thus
brought to our notice, passed without leaving
behind the least trace.
Mrs Besant’s Jesus has certainly not been a World-
1 AVe will examine presently Mrs Besant’s references to tlio
Talmud, which were much later than her message of the return
of the Christ.
6 8 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRI8IS
Teacher, if the investigations of which we are
informed are to be relied upon. He has been quite
obscure; the memory of him has been preserved in
no document, religious or historical; no myth or
legend speaks of him. Truly the first Teacher
who has left no memory of his activity.
Since the authenticity of the sacred scriptures
of all times is admitted by these two occultists, and
to our day attests the fruitful activity of these
great Teachers of the past, we would point out the
complete absence in this case of any documentary
evidence, of any influence on the thought of the
period. A great Teacher would thus have passed
totally unrecognised.
Let us admit it, since such is the outcome of the
researches of Mr Leadbeater and Mrs Besant.
None the less, these two occultists, continuing
their investigations, have announced at a given
moment “the return of the Christ.” Of the Christ
to whom they have always referred, of course ?
Most certainly not!
However incredible this may seem, Mrs Besant,
with the calm audacity of unconsciousness, accom­
plishes the amazing volte-face of establishing her­
self at a single bound, and without the slightest
concern as to the transition, on the ground of
historical Christianity, of announcing the return
of the other Christ, of the historical Christ, of
adopting as real events the drama of Judea, the
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST ” G9
happenings at Jerusalem and the suffering of
Calvary. And she succeeds by the use of an equi­
vocation, incredibly flimsy but of tragic con­
sequences, in inducing those Christians who hear
her to believe that her investigations in the spiritual
worlds make it possible for her to announce the
return of the histoi'ical Christ, when in reality the
investigations which form the ground of her occult
message deny the existence of the historical Christ
as well as that of the Apostles, and declare the
Gospels to be apocryphal.
It is painful to find in Mrs Besant, in her rOle
of occultist, as earlier we found in the discharge of
her Presidential functions, the same carelessness as
regards the accuracy of the facts she announces,
the same callous indifference as to truth or false­
hood. But in this matter the effects will be
incalculable.
Mrs Besant lends herself to a mystification the
exceptional gravity of which will utterly overwhelm
those who invoke such terrible karma as she thus
prepares for herself. She is leading a crowd of
souls attached to the truo Christ towards some
unknown teacher to come, whose obscure past has
been looked up by Mr Leadbeater and herself
together. She has led them to believe that it is he
who returns, their own Christ, the son of Mary
who was baptized by John, who called Lazarus
from the dead, who loved John and Peter and
70 MR9 BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
Martha and Mary, who addressed to all his teach­
ings and his exhortations, who performed miracles,
who healed the sick; he whoso life is told through­
out the Gospels, with his thousand sublime and
touching traits; he who truly did and said all these
holy and loving things, like the Sermon on the
Mount, the reading of which has filled with
strength and joy millions of souls throughout the
ages, because they felt within themselves as they
read these words the breath of Truth, and them­
selves shared in the pulsing Life, preserved with
such reverent care in the Gospels as in a sacred
vase. She has made them believe that it is the
Christ of the Sacraments who is to return, he who
on earth performed the mystery of the Holy Com­
munion with his disciples, the Christ condemned
by Pontius Pilate, crucified between two thieves,
and returning to life on the third day, who then
appeared to Mary Magdalen, to the Apostles, to the
unbelieving Thomas, and who walked with the
disciples as they journeyed to Emmaus.
The Jesus that Mrs Besant knows, whom she
has found by her occult investigations, has done
nothing, has said nothing, of all this. Of what he
has done, of what he has said while on earth, no
one knows anything at all.
Is it not both strange and sad to see Mrs Besant
and Mr Leadbeater thus deny the historical reality
of the Christ, and of his life as recounted in the
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 71
Gospels, without attempting to penetrate the
mystery which will then fatally obscure the past
work, the most interesting incarnation of the great
Teacher of whom they announce the return ?
SECOND PHASE
Many theosophists have been surprised by the
above, and many questions have been put to Mrs
Besant on this point. She has been forced to deal
with them in a recent lecture, “ Aspects of the
Christ,” given in London, 13th July 1912, and
printed in pamphlet form. “First,”says Mrs Besant,
" the historical side. On that Occultism speaks
clearly and distinctly, as we have learned from the
Masters of the White Lodge, from the messenger
whom They sent to us, H. P. B., confirmed by the
study of later workers. And this view is supported
by much in the story of the past and by one or
two teachings that are worthy of consideration in
the record of the New Testament itself. It is the
story of a Hebrew youth, born about a century
before the beginning of the Christian era, trained
partly in Egypt, partly in the monasteries of the
Essenes, coming forth at about the age of thirty to
be a teacher among his people, recognised by them
as known in the days of his youth. . . . Sometimes
the enthusiastic love of the crowd, sometimes the
passionate hatred, attempting life; finally, in the
72 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
city of Jerusalem, in the very court of the Temple
itself, a riot breaking out, a terrible stoning, the
passing back of the Christ to His own place, the
murder of the bod)' in which He had dwelt, the
taking up of the body, the hanging of it in mockery
on a tree by those who had slain Him. Such is
the ancient story, the story of the records of the
past, confirmed by traditions which have passed
downward through the Hebrew people, who tell us
of this young Teacher in the days of Queen Salome,
who preached and taught, who was slain and
hanged on a tree. And it is confirmed by those
words spoken by St Peter, recorded in the Acts of
the Apostles, when, speaking reproachfully to the
Hebrews of his day, he spoke of ‘Jesus whom ye
slew and hanged upon a tree.’”
It seems that to the sudden jump made by
Mrs Besant, at first from the standpoint of occult
research to the ground of historical Christianity,
there succeeds at the present time an attempt to
reconcile these two positions by calling to her aid
historical and religious documents in favour of an
identification of the historical Christ with the
“Jesus” of her occult researches.
But this is not a very happy attempt. The
facts that Mrs Besant seeks' to introduce into the
life of Christ, in order to establish this “identity,”
are as irreconcilable with the history as with the
text of the Gospels. These facts are: the birth
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 73
one hundred and five years before Jesus Christ,
the stoning, and finally the hanging on the cross
after the death.
The birth of the historical Christ in the year 1
of the Christian era is demonstrated by the record
of Tacitus, -who himself lived three-quarters of a
century only after the events which took place in
Palestine.
The Annals of Tacitus, whose title in the manu­
scripts runs, “ Ab excessu divi Augusti,”do not begin
Roman history till the death of Augustus, which
took place fourteen years after Christ. They
would not therefore attempt to record one hundred
years further back the historical period of the life
of Christ; and, further, Tacitus definitely refers the
origin of Christianity to the personality he names
the Christ, who was put to death by order of the
Procurator Pontius Pilate between the twenty-sixth
and thirty-sixth }^ear of the Christian era (Gh'ande
Encyclopedic, vol. xxi. p. 136). There exists, then,
on this point, a perfect agreement between history
and the Gospels, without the need to call as further
witnesses Suetonius and Pliny the younger, both
of whom agree with the above.
Mrs Besant spoke of an historical aspect “sup­
ported by much in the story of the past.” Roman
history, as we know, invalidates her historical in­
terpretation. But Mrs Besant, in addition, appeals
to traditions preserved by the Jews, and referring
74 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
to this young Teacher who was stoned and hanged
at Jerusalem during the reign of the Queen Salome.
It is regrettable that Mrs Besant cites no texts.
We will do it for her, quoting at the same time the
opinion of a most noted Orientalist of the nineteenth
century based on these texts.
In his Essai sur VHistoire et la Gdogrwphie
de la Palestine, d'apr&s le Talmud, etc.,1 M. J.
Derenbourg, membre de l’lnstitut, devotes a section
entitled “Jesus and Ben Sotada” to the serious
study of the hypothesis that sees in Jesus ben
Sotada the Christ of the Gospels (p. 468 et seq.).
The extent of this study forbids its being given in
full; but certain extracts, especially those containing
the texts from the Talmud, will suffice tojustify the
conclusions of this scholar, who is definitely opposed
to this hypothesis:—
“ In J. Sanhedrin, vii. 16, where we read (following
the method described at the beginning of this study)
the words: *Thus did they to ben Sotada at
Lydda, they set two learned men to watch him,
then they led him before the tribunal, where he
was stoned,’ nothing so far suggests the thought
that it could have been a question of Jesus, since,
if so, not only had they disguised the name of the
person, but had even changed Jemisaleinfoi- Lydda,
and substituted for the death by crucifixion that by
1 Printed in 1807 by the Imprimerie Nationale, and to he
found in the Bibliothfeque Nationale.
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 75
stoning. The Babylonian Talmud, J. Sanhedrin,
vii. 67a, replaces all that follows the name of ben
Sotada by the words: ‘and they hanged him on
the eve of Passover.’ Into this addition the
confusion of him with Jesus has already crept.
The confusion shows itself complete in the dis­
cussion which occurs immediately after the above.
‘Why the name of Sotada, since he was the son
of Pandera?’ . . .”1 Then M. Derenbourg con­
tinues: “ Why should the name of Jesus, which
is found twenty times in these Talmuds (in the
non-expurgated editions, of course), have been
replaced upon one occasion by the pseudonym of
ben Sotada ? This question is still without an
answer. . . .”
Finally, M. Derenbourg concludes in these
words: “I believe that after what we have just
said all will recognise with us that some time
before or after the destruction of the Temple there
must have taken place at Lydda the execution of
a false prophet, who was later confounded with
Jesus. . . .” It is important to add that no one
of the passages quoted by M. Derenbourg speaks
of a stoning in the court of the Temple.
The texts of the two Talmuds, no less than the
Annals of Tacitus, oppose the claim of Mrs Besant
that Jesus ben Sotada or ben Pandera is identical
with the Christ—an identification equally opposed
1 Other writers give Pandira.
76 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
by the authoritative opinion of a great Orientalist.
And we may here add that the occult researches
of Dr Steiner regard Jesus ben Pandera as a totally
different personality from that of the Christ.
Alone and unsupported in her views, in spite
of the literal meaning of the Roman and Jewish
texts, and cutting through their reasoned inter­
pretation, Mrs Besant asserts on the strength, she
declares, of historical documents—which?—that
Jesus ben Pandera is the Christ. Up to now
historical documents give a complete denial to
this view.
If Mrs Besant has found little difficulty in main­
taining her claim without the support of quotations
from the Talmud, it is because her audience feels the
greatest confidence in her. It never suspects that
the quotations from the Talmud would contradict
her statements or that she could be capable of
passing in silence the testimony of Tacitus.
But Mrs Besant has called out a third kind of
“ historical proof ” : “one or two teachings that are
worthy of being considered in the record of the
New Testament itself.” Before examining the single
passage that she quotes, some few preliminary
words are needed regarding the liberty Mrs Besant
takes with the Gospels. We know that the latter
claim to give a strictly accurate historical account
of the life and death of Christ; Mr Leadbeater,
supported by Mrs Besant, declares this account to
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST ” 77
be inaccurate in its broad outlines and in all its
details. Christ was born a century before the
Christian era, the Apostles did not exist, Christ
did not die on the Cross, etc.
This being really so, it is not possible to invoke
the historical value of a single passage of the
Gospels in support of a hypothesis the ccn'rectness
of which would at once invalidate the historical
worth of the whole of the four Gospels. Against
the single passage brought forward as “a teaching
that is worthy of being considered,” the entire
contents of the Gospels will represent “ information
that is not worthy of being considered.”
Mrs Besant does not see that in the shipwreck
of the four Gospels the single passage on which
she hopes to rest her hypothesis is equally
submerged.
No one will be deceived by the artifice of such
procedure.
Nevertheless, let us examine the passage from
which Mrs Besant draws her conclusions. Sho
confines herself to quoting the following words
of Peter, found in the Acts of the Apostles: “ Jesus
whom ye slew and hanged on a tree.”
This quotation is to be found in the Authorised
Version of the Anglican Church. The French
translation of Ostervald renders these words as,
“ Que vous avez fait mourir, lc pendant au bois ”;
while Bourass^ and Janvier give the translation
78 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
as, “ Que vous avez fait mourir en le suspendant
a un bois.”
In another passage in the Acts Peter is made to
say alike in all three editions: “ Que vous avez
crucifix.” Again (x. 39) Peter said, according to
the English Bible: “ Whom they slew and hanged
on a tree ” ; but this passage is given by Ostervald
as, “ Ils l’ont fait mourir, le pendant au bois,” and
by Bourassd and Janvier as, “ Ils l’ont fait mourir,
l’attachant ft une Croix.”
It is thus clear that there is a wide choice
between the different versions of the original text,
and it would be highly imprudent in such a case
to draw from it an argument, as Mrs Besant
attempts to do, in favour of a Christ first stoned
and then hanged or crucified. But since she thinks
that Peter intended to express this idea, nothing
is easier than to show her her mistake, for the Acts
of the Apostles (iii. 13) make Peter say: “ . . . his
son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and denied him
in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined
to let him go. But ye denied the Holy One and
the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted
unto you; and killed the Prince of life, whom God
hath raised from the dead.”
Thus Peter here corroborates without the smallest
equivocation all the steps of the drama as they are
recorded in the four Gospels: the judgment before
Pilate, his refusal to condemn Christ, the release of
M R S B E S A N T ’S “ R E T U R N OF T H E C H R I S T ” 79
Barabbas claimed by the crowd. These words do
not allow it to be supposed for a moment that he
believed in a Christ stoned in the court of the
Temple during a riot, and crucified after his death.
There is no possibility of misunderstanding: we
find in Peter the faithful echo of a story identical
with that of the four Evangelists; as in each of
the four Gospels, we again hear the crowd shout to
Pilate: "Crucify him, crucify him!” For Peter
also Christ has really died on the cross. There
can be no question of the agreement of the four
Evangelists and of Peter.
Mrs Besant’s attempts to bring the Gospels to
the support of her interpretation of the death of
Christ are foredoomed to failure.
But the direction that her efforts take is of the
highest significance; the interpretation, favourable
to her hypothesis, of five or six words to be found
in the Gospels that she has in the same lecture
declared to be mere fiction 1ms induced her to
recognise the historical value of this uscfulpassage !
To be reduced to such methods means to have lost
all faith in the cause that is being defended. What
folly to claim that the Gospels are authentic just
so far as they give support to a hypothesis denying
their authenticity ! They are so if they refer to a
real Christ; they are not if the Christ to whom
they refer is a myth, if the only real Christ lived
a century earlier and was stoned to death.
80 M R S B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
And Mrs Besant affirms that the Christ of the
Gospels is mythic; if not, what, then, is the mean­
ing of these words taken from this same lecture
(p. 16): “As this thought spread, the Sun-God and
the Cross became identified. And the life of the
Spirit outpoured upon the world had as its symbol
this equal-armed Cross. Then, coming downwards,
that is represented in the Mysteries. And inas­
much as it had to be represented pictoriaUy, after
the power to make living forms had passed
because of ignorance, the Mysteries became a
drama which was acted, and then the Sun-0od no
longer appeared triumphant on the sphere in
space, but outstretched on the cross of matter, and
you have no longer the equal-armed cross but the
Latin cross, one arm lengthened that the body of
the man crucified may be thereon represented.
And so the mystic teaching grew up, and all still
gathered round the splendid figure of the Christ.”
Mrs Besant must surely give in, she must
surely drop such self-contradiction as the denying
and invoking in the same breath the historical
value of the Gospels, according as it serves her
hypothesis.
Mr Leadbeater shows himself as consistent with
his hypothesis when he says in the Christian
Creed, p. 81, second edition: “' Was crucified, dead,
and buried.’ Here again we are face to face with
an almost universal misunderstanding whose pro-
M R S B E S A N T ’8 “ R E T U R N O F T H E C H R I S T ” 81
portions have been colossal and its results most
disastrous. The astonishing evolution of a
perfectly reasonable allegory into an absolutely
impossible biography has had a very sad influence
upon the entire Christian Church and upon the
faith which it has taught, and the enormous
amount of devotional sympathy which has been
poured forth through the centuries in connection
with a story of physical suffering that is wholly
imaginary is perhaps the most extraordinary and
lamentable waste of psychic energy in the history
of the world.”
Again, on p. 94, second edition: “ Of course the
nails, the blood, the wounds, and all the ghastly
horrors of the modern misrepresentation are simply
the accretions due to the diseased imagination of
the material-minded monk. . . .”
Surely for Mrs Besant to call the Gospels to bear
witness to her Jesus (a man of unknown life, who
met his death by stoning) in order that she may
claim for him the prerogatives of the real Christ,
as she undoubtedly does, is an unfortunate in­
consistency for her cause. Even if such claim had
not been completely invalidated by the texts of
Tacitus, of the Talmud, and of the Gospels, Mr
Leadbeater is there to remind her that she is
placing herself in contradiction to him and to
herself, and that any “adaptation ” of their Jesus
to the true Christ is simply impossible. The
6
82 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
“ diseased imagination of a material-minded monk ”
most certainly could not become an historical fact
simply because the substitution of Jesus ben
Pandera for the real Christ, accopted at first in
all good faith by her admirers, has begun to be
suspected since Dr Steiner’s teachings have become
more widely known.1
Let us bring things to a point. During the first
phase of her announcement of a false Christ Mrs
Besant seems to have been, in all good faith, the
victim of incompetent occult investigations that
led her to believe sincerely in the return of the
Christ.
Her lecture, “ Aspects of the Christ,” reveals a
totally different attitude. She has heard the
genuineness of her message doubted, has been
asked for clearer explanations, and she has had
recourse to historical evidence.
Up to then there was nothing to be said. But
from the moment she consulted these historical
documents it is almost impossible that she should
not have clearly recognised that she was deceived.
Her wide learning forbids us to believe that she is
ignorant of the Annals of Tacitus and of the texts
of the Talmud, or of the passage in the Acts in
1 In order to avoid creating a new source of misunder­
standing, let me state expressly that Dr Steiner, in his
teachings, while recording the existence of Jesus ben Pandera
a century before the birth of Christ, by no means proclaims
his coming as a World-Teacher.
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 83
which Peter confirms the story as found in the
four Gospels. Her high intelligence prevents our
seriously thinking that she really pretends to be
producing historical documentary evidence when
quoting a single line from the Gospels, which for
her are wholly myth and allegory. It is no longer
our good sense alone that is outraged by the in­
consistency of such procedure; in spite of ourselves,
ineradicable as is the logical instinct, the conscious­
ness of a great ingenuity employed in the service
of a recognised error will surge up in our minds.
Mrs Besant would seem to know that a profound
abyss separates her Jesus from the real Christ;
she seems deliberately to undertake to plead the
cause of the false Christ, rather than—confess.
I am aware that such a suspicion would be
unworthy had not the unlikelihood of any less de­
grading hypothesis been clearly shown. But—how
is one to explain otherwise than by this hypothesis
that so keen an intelligence, sincerely desiring to
examine historical documents, should have passed
in silence the accounts of the greatest historian in
Rome and of two other writers of his time, all in
agreement; how could she have twisted the text of
the Talmud (for according to the Talmud it was not
at Jerusalem, but at Lydda, that Jesus ben Pandera
was put to death); how without proof could she
give the lie to the four consistent accounts of the
Gospels; how could she try desperately to make
84 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
Peter say what he had neither implied nor intended
to imply ? Had any great writer brought forward
such proofs as Mrs Besant has done, how should
we have explained such a mass of sophistries—
any one of which would constitute a grave fault
even in a mediocre mind—except by saying that
they were consciously and intentionally so arranged
in order that a hypothesis might be supported at
all costs ? Yet, it will be asked, what motive could
inspire in Mrs Besant such determination, such
ardour in the service of error ? For what purpose
would she defend what she knows to be false ?
I have tried to understand, my heart in revolt
against the relentless conclusions of my mind, my
soul striving after Truth. . . . Can I be blamed if
a memory rises within me, deeply engraved on my
mind, as are so many of the pages of Mrs Besant’s
Autobiography, that I once read and re-read,
thrilling with admiration and enthusiasm, and
that still remain so vividly in my mind ? While I
was facing this painful problem, I heard Mrs Besant
telling us Mine. Blavatsky’s judgment of her:
“ Child, your pride is terrible; you are as proud as
Lucifer himself.”
As proud as the King of pride, as rich in pride
as the one source of all pride. . . . There passes
through our souls a shiver of pity and dread. . . .
At a suddenly awakened instinct we cling with all
our strength to Truth, gathering loyally round her,
MRS BESANT*8 “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST ” 85
and our longing turns with all its strength towards
the Humility that has power to save, praying
for her to descend on Mrs Besant. . . . Yet how
sad, how terribly sad, that this redoubtable cause,
with its tragic effects, should seem to us so evident,
so conclusive, so irrefutable! . . . It would seem
that indomitable pride, that devastating pride,
would stop at nothing rather than make the
humiliating confession of mistakes. It must be
admitted that only the superhuman pride referred
to by Mme. Blavatsky would dare to persevere
consciously in error while holding in its hands the
welfare of thousands of souls, whom it was thus
willing to throw into the most dire confusion.
Truly all is thus made clear, but what a terrible
clarity ! How keen our wish that it might be less
cruel, less pitiless ! For it must inevitably paralyse
the affection we still persist in feeling for Mrs
Besant; it shows us the clear duty of turning out
of our hearts the last vestige of that old feeling of
solidarity if we would not be her accomplices.
Whatever the pain, we must face it bravely. In
spite of the overwhelming evidence accumulating
against Mrs Besant, I will not declare her guilty of
the deliberate announcement of a false Christ. I
acknowledge the profound mystery shrouding the
inmost thoughts of every living being from the
unreliable pronouncements of psychological investi­
gation. But without the least hesitation I will
8 6 MR8 BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
affirm this: Our reason forces us to confess that all
goes to suggest that Mrs Besant, having herself
ceased to believe in the identity of her Jesus with
the Christ, would still continue to make others
believe it. When, earlier, we tried to elude this
painful conclusion Mme. Blavatsky herself barred
our way; the Founder of the Theosophical Society,
the friend of Mrs Besant, who guided her first
steps in the occult life, comes forward to defend
the verdict of our impartial reason, leading us to it
with the authority we concede to her clairvoyant
knowledge, and to her protective affection for Mrs
Besant. She gives us, alas! the key that seems to
reveal the secret of all our President’s failings.
Her pride, her dominating mind, have driven her
on this crusade of extermination of Dr Steiner’s
teachings; it has induced her to collect, without
the least regard for truth, justice, or theosophic
principles, no matter what weapons if they do but
serve against her opponent: calumny, abuse of
power, misstatement of facts, all combined in a
subtle strategy. And when she falls victim of
some error in the course of her occult investigations
—of which in theory she is always proclaiming the
fallibility,—it is again her pride that bars the way
to admission, and makes her the slave of the
most pitiful machinations. In truth, Mrs Besant’s
attitude towards Dr Steiner himself and his
teaching is utterly unworthy and moves us to
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRI8T ” 87
strong disapproval. But her fault does not reach
such terrible proportions as in this announcement
of a false Christ. In this case the words that
express her responsibility may haunt our thought,
but must ever be held back from the pen. Let us
confine ourselves to the statement that it is a
great misfortune to learn that Mrs Besant has
perhaps closed her heart to the confession of her
fault; that pride has suggested a policy of
expedients, so insincere, so pitifully inadequate.
A formal explicit declaration would retrieve, so
far as was possible, the initial mistake. In
attempting to defend it Mrs Besant has made of
this mistake a disaster, which at all events will
shatter to fragments in all directions the confidence
she had formerly inspired. For if she is not con­
sciously defending her mistake, then what kind of
a break-up of all her faculties are we witnessing ?
An undefined fear seizes us when we contemplate
the possibility of wilful confusion of men’s minds,
no less than when we consider the hypothesis of a
mental failure as radical and as complete as this
lecture on the “ Aspects of the Christ” would show
it to be. The one certainty in either case is that
we are facing one of the worst of the catastrophes
reserved in the spiritual world for present-day
humanity, once we recognise its immediate and
future consequences.
That the drama may be complete, that we may
88 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
experience to the full the keenest suffering, we see
the passionate confidence of the victims facing this
proclamation of a false Christ.
A pamphlet containing Mrs Besant’s lecture on
" The Masters ” has been used in Germany for the
purpose of propaganda of the Star in the East.
(Dusseldorf, Ernst Pieper, Ring - Verlag.) In it
occur the following lines written by her: “ He,
whom in the East men call the Wisdom-Truth, the
World-Teacher, and whom in the West men call
the Christ, will ere long incarnate upon earth and
move once more among the busy crowds of men.”
The pamphlet closes with a strong appeal to the
public to join the Star in the East. Alluding to the
passage quoted, the appeal says: “ Lips that we
reverence have revealed to us that this is not only
possible but certain. With an enthusiasm that
melts and dissolves all doubts and all hesitations,
Mrs Besant, the author of this lecture, announces
the fact that the Great Teacher will once more
bestow the blessing of his presence and will continue
his work for the good of humanity. So shall we
be greatly favoured in the eyes of many thousands
of generations. The Kingdom of Heaven will
again descend amongst us. If this be so—and it
is difficult not to believe an Annie Besant . . .”
Our thought reels at seeing the greatest mysti­
fication thus met with the most determined
confidence.
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 89
The more deeply we study this, the more terrible
appear the responsibilities of Adyar in this
deplorable scheme; for we would still seek the
origin of such fearless confidence, refusing, as it
does, to be shaken by the eloquent appeal of the
facts here set forth, and of which some, if not all,
have been within the reach and open to examina­
tion of those members who profess such an
enthusiastic confidence in Mrs Besant. The result
of our search is a yet further culpability, as over­
whelming as it is unexpected.
For this confidence is not in the case of all the
victims the result of the free use of their own
inner faculties. It is, in the case of the greater
number, due to the influence of a strong suggestion
deliberately organised and cleverly carried out by
the authors of this mystification themselves; by
Mr Leadbeater who wrote, and by Mrs Besant who
published, the following lines in the Adyar Album,
p. 45 : “ What can I say to you of your President
that you do not know already ? Her colossal
intellect, her unfailing wisdom, her unrivalled
eloquence, her splendid forgetfulness of self, her
untiring devotion to work for others—all these are
familiar to you. Yet these qualities, these powers,
are but a small part of her greatness ; they are on
the surface, they may be seen by all, they leap to the
eyes. But there are other qualities, other powers,
of which you cannot know, because they pertain to
90 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
the secrets of Initiation. She is a pupil of our
Masters ; from the fount of Their archaic wisdom
she derives her own; the plans which she is
carrying out are Their plans for the welfare of the
world. Think, therefore, how great an honour it
is for you that you should be permitted to work
under her, for in doing so you are virtually working
under Them. Think how watchful you should be
to miss no hint which falls from her lips, to carry
out exactly whatever instructions she may give
you. Remember that because of her position as an
Initiate she knows far more than you do; and
precisely because her knowledge is occult, given
under the seal of Initiation, she cannot share it
with you. Therefore her actions must certainly be
governed by considerations of which you have no
conception. There will be times when you cannot
understand her motives, for she is taking into
account many things which you cannot see and of
which she must not tell you. But whether you
understand or not, you will be wise to follow her
implicitly,just because she knows. This is no mere
supposition on my part, no mere flight of the
imagination; I have stood beside your President
in the presence of the Supreme Director of
evolution on this globe, and I know whereof I
speak. Let the wise hear my words, and act
accordingly.”
It is easy to see how minds not gifted with a
MRS BESANTS “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 91
highly developed critical faculty, or the instinctive
sense that discriminates the true from the false,
would yield hopelessly to such a formidable assault.
They cannot see that he who thus guarantees the
infallibility of Mrs Besant has himself need of
guarantee—we will return to this question later—
before we accept such strange advice as to follow
Mrs Besant whether we understand her or not, and
to follow her implicitly—that is to say, solely
because she asks it.
I do not think that any religion or man-made
cult, even in the earliest ages, has ever promulgated
superstition in its grossest form so openly and
boldly as this. For had men then irresponsibly
followed some leader or other, there would have
been in those epochs no development of thought,
and the legacy of documents left us by these
periods prove there was. Mr Leadbeater, on the
contrary, demands the deliberate suppression of
thought, grown now to full responsibility; ho
demands of it willing acceptance of blind sub­
mission, he proposes the voluntary stifling of the
protests of our inner conviction......... And having
extolled such a deliberately induced mental torpor
for Mrs Besant’s benefit, he immediately demands
it for himself when he speaks of the “ Supreme
Director of Evolution on this globe.” Who is this
administrative person ? With whom is he to be
identified in the scheme of evolution as it has been
92 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
given to us by Mrs Besant and Mr Leadbeater
themselves ? Evidently Mr Leadbeater does not
think it worth while to even try to enlighten us at
the moment when he is striving to rouse all the
forces of obscurantism still sleeping in the human
soul.
What saving power will deliver us from this
nightmare that is weighing us down ? What
avenging Qod will come to confound this impious
prophet who seeks to reduce humanity to the
level of a troop of obedient automata, denying
their reason, treading down those inner instincts
that may perhaps warn them that Mrs Besant is
deceiving herself and them ? A gentle and winning
voice, infinitely reassuring, rises out of the depths
of my being. At the sound I feel this thick fog
that has threatened to wrap our souls in the mists
of a servile ignorance melt as by enchantment, and
a great light breaks forth, triumphant. Mr Lead­
beater hears the words of a judgment immediate
and without appeal, pronounced by the Buddha
himself: “Believe not what you have heard said;
believe not in traditions merely because they have
been transmitted through many generations ; believe
not merely because a thing is repeated by many
persons; believe not solely because someone has
shown you the work of a very ancient sage; believe
not conjectures; believe not in that to which you
are attached merely by habit; believe not solely
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 93
upon the authority of your Masters and elders;
W HEN UPON OBSERVATION AND ANALYSIS A PRINCIPLE
CONFORMS TO REASON AND LEADS TO THE BENEFIT
a n d W ELFARE o f a l l , accept it and hold to it.”
(Buddha, Anguttusra Nilcaya.)
What a royal refuge, what a noble support are
the words of those who are truly great! They tire
the perpetual safeguard of humanity.
We have seen that upon “observation and
analysis ” the “unfailing ” wisdom of Mrs Besant
is no moro than a mass of inconsistencies, injustices,
sectarian tactics in administration, error and mysti­
fication in esoteric announcements. Far from leading
to “ the benefit and welfare of all,” this “unfailing”
wisdom is leading to the dismemberment of the
Theosophical Society, to the most miserable slavery
of souls, the emasculation of minds, the creation
of a terrible heresy. And at the present time we
are all feeling that we shall not be living up to
the wise exhortations of that great Being who was
the Buddha, unless we clearly denounce the lament­
able aberrations of these two occultists in the hope
of drawing all the souls we possibly can away from
their pernicious influence. With this end in view,
and faithful to this duty, we shall calmly and
firmly continue our investigation of facts.
Fortunately, the assertions of Mrs Besant and
Mr Leadbeater have lately reached to such a pitch
of extravagance and have so utterly defied common
94 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
sense that they will rouse even the least critical
minds and the most compliant hearts.
THIRD PHASE
A book entitled Man: Whence, How, and
Whither, and written by Mrs Besant and
Mr Leadbeater in collaboration, has just been
published.
Their substitution of a false Christ for the Christ
of the Gospels is here supported by a new order
of evidence.
In the course of their investigations these two
occultists look up, on the one side, the past incar­
nations of him whom Mrs Besant calls the “ Master
Jesus,” that is, of the “Jesus” born 105 b.c. ; and,
on the other side, the past lives of the being whom
she calls the “ Lord Maitreya, the present Bodhi-
sattva, the Supreme Teacher of the World ”; whose
ego at a given moment replaced that of “Jesus,”
this being the last incarnation of the Christ
whose immediate return she is announcing.
. Let us first quote from their account of the
incarnations of the “ Supreme Teacher,” he whom
Mrs Besant believes to be the “ Lord Maitreya.”
In the chapter headed " Early Times on the
Moon Chain,” p. 34, we read:—
“There is a hut in which dwells a Moon-man, his
wife and children; these we know in later times
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 95
under the names of Mars and Mercury, the
Mahaguru and Surya. A number of these monkey-
creatures live round the hut, and give to their
owners the devotion of faithful dogs; among them
we notice the future* Sirius, Herakles, Alcyone, and
Mizar, to whom we may give their future names
for the purpose of recognition, though they are
still non-human.”1
In the fourth Root Race we again find the
personage supposed to be “Maitreya” as the
husband of the ego claimed by these authors as
that of “Master K. H.” Mrs Besant is again
incarnated in the family as daughter, the eldest
sister of the “ Master M. ”; “ Maitreya,” the future
World-Teacher, being at this time the head of the
tribe (p. 113).
We find him again on p. 252 as the daughter of
Alcyone (Krishnamurti), and with “Jesus” himself
as sister.
In the Iranian sub-race he is the chief priest, at
the head of the State religion (p. 298).
1 In these incarnations such names are used as: Mars for
the “ Master M.,” Mercury for the “ Master K. H.," Surya, the
“ Lord Maitreya, the present Bodhisattva, the Supreme
Teacher of the World,” Sirius for Mr Leadbeater, Ilerakles
for Mrs Besant, Alcyone for Krishnamurti, Mizar for his young
brother, etc. A list of tlieso names and those to whom they
apply is given in the Foreword of the book. We shall here
substitute the names of the real persons as given in this list
for the fancy names used to distinguish them in the body of
the book, Afan: Whence, How, and Whither.
96 MRS BESANT AND THE PRE8ENT CRISIS
He is high priest in Southern India in 18,875 B.c.,
on p. 328.
Three thousand years later, in Egypt, he is again
high priest, the adviser of the reigning Pharaoh,
we learn on p. 330.
We have thus reached to somewhere about the
year 15,000 B.c., and then—incredible as it seems—
they give no further incarnations of him whom
they nevertheless claim to have been the World-
Teacher at the beginning of our era.
They give us his incarnations as husband, as
father, as counsellor and priest, and are silent as
to the only incarnation of fundamental and vital
importance to the whole world.
Let us see if the incarnations of their “Jesus ”
will fill this gap in our knowledge, if they will
throw light on this essential point, thus left in
obscurity.
We meet this "Jesus” for the first time at the
beginning of the fifth Root Race, as daughter of
Alcyone (Krishnamurti) and sister of “Maitreya ”
(p. 252).
Then, on p. 328, as the wife of Julius Ccesar,
18,875 b.c., he, or rather she, being at this time the
widow of Vulcan (known in his last incarnation as
Sir Thomas More).
He is next found, on p. 333, as one of a band of
Aryan immigrants in India.
He is later identified as daughter of Alcyone-
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST ” 97
Krishnamurti (his father) and Fabrizio Ruspoli
(his mother),1 parents at the same time of the
future “World-Teacher, Maitreya,” their young
daughter. These incarnations took place 72,000
B.c., on the shores of the Lake of Gobi, we are
told on p. 490.
In 15,910 B.c. we find “Jesus” as grandson of
“ Maitreya,” and as father and grandfather of a
large family composed, as in all the cases investi­
gated by these two authors, of ‘
present members
of the Theosophical Society only, and including the
faithful friends of Adyar to the exclusion of all
others,1
2
In this particular family, including sons- and
daughters-in-law, its members number thirty-three
(p. 496).
1 M. Ruspoli is nn Italian thcosophiet recently living at
Adyar, with whom Mr Leadbeuter stayed in Italy.
2 It is a remarkable fact that outside this little circle not a
single being in our great world has ever entered into these
family communities to whom the honour is given of being the
pioneers of every civilisation of the past. Even though we
are invited to assist at marriages running into thousands, ever
the same names appear and all the members of all the families
are identified. This singular oligarchy of friends and devotees
of Adyar perhaps merited to be signalised throughout the
evolution of our earth, the more so that Mr Leadbcater,
writing in his bird’s-eye view of the twenty-eighth century
and of the pioneers of the future sixth race, remarks
maliciously: “ We know who will not be there.” lie puts
in italics the word not, desirous doubtless to indicate the
unworthiness of other theosophists.
7
98 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
In 12,800 B.c. the “Jesus” of these investiga­
tions again forms part of a very extensive family,
composed as usual of the selfsame elements,
and including amongst the names known in the
theosophic world that of Mme. Marie-Louise Kirby
(an Italian theosophist recently at Adyar), who
was his sister. “Jesus ” was then father of Mrs S.
Maud Sharpe (General Secretary of the English
Section), of Julius Caesar, and of T. Subba Rao;
the Teshu Lama being at that time his daughter,
etc., etc. (p. 499).
Finally, in 13,500 b.c. this “Jesus ” is the wife of
an emperor of Southern India.
Once more have our hopes been betrayed, for an
absolute silence broods over the incarnations of
“ Jesus ” later than this date of 13,500, as it reigned
over those of the “ World-Teacher.” No single
detail is given of the life of “Jesus” at the
beginning of our era.
We cannot, however, conceive that this informa­
tion gathered from occult investigation will be felt
to be indispensable by anyone. Now that we know
that Mrs Besant’s “ World-Teacher” is an ordinary
man of the lunar chain (to whom Mrs Besant was
first domestic animal1and then sister, and who, in
1 Dr Steiner’s teaching does not give to the monkey the
position of human ancestor. For him animals are degraded
human forms, those more or less nearly resembling present-
day animals hardly going back further than the mid-Atlantenn
period.
MRS BESANTS “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST" 99
the early period of our earth, was daughter of the
young Krishnamurti or of M. Ruspoli), who could
be found still to imagine that there could be here
any question, save in a mad or impious joke, of the
true Christ whose divine nature and world-function
are thus proclaimed in the Gospel of St John: “In
the beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with Ood, and the Word was God, The same was
in the beginning with God. AIL things were made
by him ; and without him was not anything made
that was made. . . . And the Word was made
jlesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory,
the glory of the only begotten Son of the Father,
full of grace and truth ” ?
I beg to be forgiven for having ventured to
quote here these sacred words, for having dared to
mention them in the same breath with these wild
extravagances. . . .
Let us bow our heads a moment in reverent
recollection. Thereafter we shall feel only a quiet
and abiding pity for those who would persist in
comparing their “Jesus,” this lunar man who was
brother, sister, husband of somebody or other in
his earlier incarnations, with the Word made flesh,
with the Word that was God, and by whom all
things were made, and who was in the Beginning.
If they still continue to say that their “Jesus”
was the true Christ, it is because their reason is
clouded, for such a conscious and deliberate pro-
100 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
fanation of the Divine could never be consummated
by occultists who sincerely believe in the existence of
a divine principle in the world. It is by a strange
irony that their arrogant announcements are now
turning against themselves, when they dare to say
in their visions of the twenty-eighth century, on
p. 456 of Man: Whence, How, and Whither:
“There are a few people who represent the older
form of Christianity—who in the name of Christ
refused to receive him when he came in a new
form. The majority regard these people as hope­
lessly out of date” Truly no one could be more cruel
towards themselves. For at one stroke Mrs Besant
and Mr Leadbeater thus succeed in discrediting the
result of all their researches in the eyes of all who
have, by aid of the quotations here given, seen into
this grotesque farce of the return of a false Christ.
Such are the three aspects of Mrs Besant and
Mr Leadbeater’s false Christ. Let us hope that
henceforward they will refrain from the error, the
aberration, the sacrilege of clothing their “Jesus”
with the glory that shines for Western souls round
the historical Christ. It is mystification of the
worst type which seeks to lead devout souls away
from Christ. Because I see so clearly the karmic
responsibility being incurred by Mrs Besant, I shall
here pronounce, in the spirit of indissoluble human
brotherhood, the words that should have been hers :
MRS BESANTS “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 101
“ In considering the return of the Christ I would
have you distinguish clearly between the Christ of
the Gospels and him to whom I refer. All that
they have in common is the name of Jesus.
“The name Christ in my lectures does not refer to
the real person who lived in the past and of whom
the Gospels speak. This name to me stands
simply for a type, a function—that of a World-
Teacher. Have I not said in my lecture, Aspects of
the Christ: ‘The names do not matter. . . . Call
Him Christ or Buddha, or whatever name you will,
. . . the Christ answers to them all.’ It has
suited me to give this title to a personality entirely
disconnected with the events of Judea. Since this
name of which I have made use is susceptible of
arousing misconception, it is necessary to emphasise
the fact that the Jesus whose immediate return
I look for should in no way be confused with
your Christ. Your faith in his Divinity, in the
supremely essential part you assign him in human
redemption, arises out of your faith in the story of
his life, and especially of his death, as recorded by
his disciples, the Apostles of your religion. But,
so far as I know, these disciples never existed, and
the story of his life, as of theirs, is a creation of
the imagination. If you believe in the return of
the Christ to whom I refer, it suffices that you
accept the existence of a man named Jesus, having
lived on earth about a century before the time
102 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
when those events in Palestine were supposed to
take place, but which did not do so. I know next
to nothing of this Jesus whose return I foretell.
The Talmud says but a few passing words, and I
have not as yet undertaken the occult investigation
which would enable me to reconstruct the last
incarnation of this Teacher. On the other hand, I
can give you information on his much earlier
incarnations: he was my brother when he was a
tribal chief; at other times he was the son of
Alcyone (Krishnamurti) and of M. Ruspoli. You
will find his lives constantly linked with those of
the most devoted of the friends of Adyar. For the
rest, if you remain a faithful believer in the
authority of your Scriptures, the authenticity of
which I repudiate, they will safeguard you against
those who try to create confusion between the
prophet whose immediate coming I proclaim and
the Christ of the Gospels. Does not this latter
state explicitly, when addressing his Father in
heaven : ‘I have glorified thee on the earth; I
have finished the work which thou gavest me
to do ’ (St John xvii. 4) ? It does not, then, seem
necessary for him to reincarnate in order to perfect
the work on earth that he regarded as finished. On
the contrary, your Scriptures announce his return
‘in the clouds of heaven ’ (St Matthew xxiv. 30;
also Acts i. 9 and 11, and Revelations i. 17).
“Clouds are composed of a substance permeable
MRS BESANT’S “ RETURN OF THE CHRIST” 103
by all other substances, and they take constantly
changing forms, these being precisely the two
attributes of the subtle worlds, as I have taught
you. . . . You should then understand that your
Christ has, according to your Scriptures, finished
his work on earth, that he will at present be
manifested on other planes of being, as claimed by
Dr Steiner, whose occult researches, it would seem,
confirm the literal as well as the deeper meaning
of every word of these imaginary Gospels. . . .”
But if Mrs Besant wrote such words, it is to be
feared the reply would be: “ If we have rightly
understood you, then the life of Christianity,
Western civilisation to which it gave birth—with
all its wealth of genius, in the domains of thought,
of art, of literature, of science and invention,—all
this is simply built upon shifting sand, upon a few
hundred pages of haphazard writing, the work of
obscure and mediocre editors. This seems the
logical outcome of your claims. Since you find
such an idea acceptable, we cannot be surprised
that you look for a new age, a new civilisation, in
connection with an obscure and unknown man,
having had no influence on the past, having no
connection with the true Christ save in the shar­
ing of the name Jesus. Pardon us if we cannot
agree with you. Our respect for the generations
who have preceded us, no less than our own
common sense, forbids belief in the redeeming and
104 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
inspiring quality of a compilation of imaginative
writings.
"It requires a real power, a living spiritual
energy to produce such flowers of spiritual life as
have marked the history of the centuries behind
us: to wit, the life and energy of this same Christ
whose existence and reality you deny. Your
Jesus, undiscoverable in the past as World-Teacher,
appearing only as your brother, or as the son or
brother of your friends, fails to inspire any
confidence in us. We decline to follow you—the
more so since we have been warned against the
danger that you represent in these words of our
own Christ: ‘For there shall arise false Christs,
and false prophets, and shall show great signs and
wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they
shall deceive the elect. Behold, I have told you
before' (St Matt. xxiv. 24). You, Madam, claim
the descent of the Holy Ghost during a distribution
of diplomas by the youthful Krishnamurti. But
you may realise that we are quite clear about him ;
our common sense and our religious documents
together protect us from your errors and your
charms.”
If Mrs Besant had tried to avoid, instead of
stirring up and encouraging, confusion of thought,
it will be clear that there would be no longer any
special interest in knowing whether the Jesus she
foretells would or would not incarnate in the
MRS b e s a n t ’s “ RETURN O F THE CHRIST ” 105
body of tho young Krishnamurti: it would then
have been a matter of very different significance;
she could not “parade with the young man before
the eyes of the whole world as with the future
Christ,” as was once announced by Dr Hiibbe-
Schleiden, President of the Order of the Star
in the East in Germany (MitteUungen, March
1913, p. 6).
Capital has been made out of this disastrous
source of confusion of personality which tends to
encourage the belief that Mrs Besant and Mr
Leadbeater prepare the youth to become an
incarnation of the real Christ. It is with feelings
of deepest pity that we think of all those who
have fallen victims to Mrs Besant’s irresistible
eloquence; of all those too-trusting souls who,
without hesitation, transfer their love of Christ to
another; who are anchoring their powers of faith
and hope in another than Christ. Whatever he
may be, by the very fact that he is another, this
substitute must be wholly and fundamentally
unworthy of their homage, for between him and
his worshippers rises this barrier of unconsciously
fraudulent confusion, or deliberate imposture.
FUNDAMENTAL CAUSES
SOME OCCULT METHODS
W e c o m e n o w t o t h e p i t i f u l c l i m a x o f t h i s p a r o d y .
Krishnamurti, under the name of Alcyone, has
written a little book—“of great value,” Mrs Besant
tells us in the 1'heosophist of January 1911—
entitled At the Feet of the Master. We learn from
Mrs Besant in her Preface that the “teachings
contained in it were given to him by his Master in
preparing him for Initiation.” In a legal suit
brought against Mrs Besant by the father of
Alcyone, he asserts that he has reason to believe
tliis book to have emanated from Mr Leadbeater.
His son, he says, was not able to write a letter in
English correctly, and was absolutely incapable of
producing such a work. Further, he considered
such proceedings tended to produce a moral
deterioration in his son. (Suit brought by J.
Narayaniah in the Madras High Court.)
In this little book are to be found the
following words: “ If you see anyone breaking
106
FUNDAMENTAL CAUSES 107
the law of the country you should inform the
authorities.”
No doubt in all countries in which members of
the Star in the East are to be found the police will
gladly avail themselves of the help of these
volunteers. But it is to be feared that public
opinion may be somewhat scornful of a prophet
who would thus raise information and denunciation
to the level of a religious duty. We can at any
rate prophesy opposition for him in France.
Better still, Mrs Besant herself, in 1895, in an
open letter, since reprinted in the Tlieosophic
Voice of August 1908, recalled and enthusiastically
endorsed these words of H. P. Blavatsky, written
in Lucifer, vol. iii. p. 268, in an article entitled,
" Is Denunciation a Duty ?”—
" If a theosophist happens to be a public officer,
a judge or a magistrate, a barrister, or even a
preacher, it is then, of course, his duty to his
country, his conscience, and those who put their
trust in him to denounce severely every case of
treachery, falsehood, and rascality, even in private
life; but—nota bene—only if he is appealed to
and called to exercise his legal authority, not
otherwise.”
What Mrs Besant then so emphatically re­
pudiated, what H. P. Blavatsky reproved in terms
that show the extreme repugnance that denuncia­
tion inspired in her, these disgraceful practices
108 MRS BESANT AND THE PRE9ENT CRISIS
to-day would be ‘
prescribed by the Masters to
those who follow the Path of Holiness! Already
we meet with new and alarming surprises.
It will be objected, perhaps, that this is the only
lapse from the moral standpoint in this otherwise
ordinary and harmless little book. It is none the
less significant. We know that a single denuncia­
tion, even if accidental, would lower the character of
the author in our eyes. What, then, of an organiser
of systematic denunciations, who was so morally
blind as to institute such a system in the name of
the loftiest morality! In propounding it he has
revealed his moral decadence. To those who do
not understand, should I suggest that they should
go to learn painting from one who is colour-blind ?
I think I should only cast discredit on the real
Initiation by disputing this precept any further.
Were it but to protest against the serious and
constant abuse of the name of the Masters, we must
say here that Mrs Besant, in her Preface to this
little book, not only credits them with such teach­
ings, but especially lays stress on the fact that
“ the greater part is a reproduction of the Master’s
own words; that which is not such a verbal
reproduction is the Master’s thought clothed in his
pupil’s words. Two omitted sentences were sup­
plied by the Master. In two other cases an omitted
word has been added.”
What a contrast to the great traditions of the
FUNDAMENTAL CAUSES 109
theosophical movement, formulated by H. P.
Blavatsky in The Key to Theosophy, third edition,
p. 191: “As for our best theosophists, they would
also in this case far rather that the names of the
Masters had not been mixed up with our books in
any way.” And later, on p. 192: “I say again,
every earnest theosophist regrets to-day, from the
bottom of his heart, that these sacred names and
things have ever been mentioned before the public.”
And this would be the moment to say with Mine.
Blavatsky: “Great are the desecrations to which
the names of two of the Masters have been sub­
jected.” What would her Masters think of “such ”
an Initiation ? But, when all is said and done, what
is this occultism which produces such disregard of
truth, such calumny in daily life, such disastrous
confusion in the domain of clairvoyance, and,
finally, advice of such a kind as to arouse universal
disgust ?
This occultism has its methods, as all schools
of occultism have; for occultism consists in a
methodical training and the awakening of con­
sciousness to superior worlds; and when a method
produces such results, may we not regard it as
legitimate to ask what is the source of such serious
and such numerous aberrations ? However, in a
question of such capital importance wo must be on
our guard against any expression of opinion.
On this question, as on all those that we have
110 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
examined, we will cite as witnesses original docu­
ments, the appraisements of those who teach their
own method. It is well known that Mr Leadbeater
is the inventor and manipulator of the Adyar occult­
ism. In the Inner Life, vol. i. p. 450, in speaking
of the centres, the awakening of which, as we
know, develops clairvoyance, ho expresses himself
in these terms: “I have heard it suggested that
each of the different petals of these force-centres
represents a moral quality, and that the develop­
ment of that quality brings the centre into activity.
I have not yet met with any facts which confirm
this, nor am I able to see exactly how it can be,
because the appearance is produced by certain quite
definite and easily recognisable forces, and the
petals in any particular centre are either active or
not active according as these forces have or have
not been aroused, and their development seems to
me to have no more connection with morality than
has the development of the biceps.”
Further, it is of interest to find Mrs Besant and
Mr Leadbeater, in the first lines of the Preface to
Man: Whence, How, and Whither, expressing the
same viow as regards the connection between
morality and clairvoyance: “ It is not generally
accepted, nor indeed is it accepted to any large
extent. A constantly growing minority, however,
of fairly intelligent people believe clairvoyance to
be a fact, and regard it as a perfectly natural
F U N D A M E N T A L C A U SES 111
power, which will become universal in the course
of evolution. They do not regard it as a miraculous
gift, nor as an outgrowth from high spirituality,
lofty intelligence, or purity of character. . . . They
know that it is a power latent in all men, and that
it can be developed by anyone who is able and
willing to pay the price demanded for its forcing,
ahead of the general evolution.”
Mrs Besant is no less positive. A price is
demanded for the “ forcing ” of clairvoyance, but
this price is neither “high spirituality,” nor "lofty
intelligence,” nor even “purity of character." Thus
we see that she fully shares the views of Mr
Leadbeater on this point.
What is the method which differs from his own
to which Mr Leadbeater refers above ? It is that
of Dr Steiner. M. van Manen, the friend and
collaborator of Mr Leadbeater, explains this to us
in the Theoaophist for September 1910, p. 1634,
where he writes: “ We have as regards these
centres two distinct teachings: the one (that of
Dr Steiner) claims that they are related to certain
moral and intellectual qualities; the other (that of
Mr Leadbeater) asserts the contrary.”
Thus the calumny, sectarianism, the disregard of
truth in daily life, the increasingly serious aberra­
tions in the spiritual life, have gradually revealed
the main source of all these facts, i.e. the defect of
the method.
112 M R S B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
All becomes clear. Mr Leadbeater is probably
right, and it may be possible to develop, as he
claims, a certain clairvoyance (an inferior clairvoy­
ance, it must be said) without the concurrence of a
moral and mental training. But who will be bold
enough to claim that the results in the two cases
will be the same ? Who will maintain that without
moral purification we shall possess that moral sense
that inspires gracious and noble conduct, and teaches
us to hate falsehood ? Who will be found to assert
that without an arduous intellectual training we
shall be able to distinguish illusions from reality in
our astral visions ?
It is logical, it is inevitable that astral perceptions,
arising in a soul trained to become clairvoyant by
such a method, will not be clearly understood, for
lack of intellectual discrimination; and so such a
one will be the sport of these unknown forces, if
pride or any other of the human passions still
remain dominant as the result of incomplete moral
purification.
And if we now examine from a different point
of view the record of these deplorable facts, this
time passing from centre to circumference, from
cause to effect, we shall discover the secret of this
“ Initiation,” of these moral precepts, of these
“ Masters,” of this “ return of the Christ,” of the
lamentable aberrations to be seen in all directions.
We shall also understand this passionate persecution
F U N D A M E N T A L CA U SES 113
of a divergent teaching, by means of calumny, to
the detriment of truth: an occult training that
declares itself independent of morality, on the
same ground that the physical training of the
muscles is independent, is adequate to the produc­
tion of that, or worse.
Mrs Besant and Mr Leadbeater are most certainly
not ignorant of the dangers of occult development
without morality. But it is quite another matter
to profess this theory, or even to lean towards
morality in the course of occult development, by
means of good intentions and generous inspira­
tions, perpetually evoked in eloquent language,
from setting to work on the development of these
centres by means of exercises arranged with the
express purpose of bringing in the practice of
morality, of truth, and of logic as powerful factors
in the reorganisation of the subtle bodies—which
produces clairvoyance. It is this special point in
the teaching of Dr Steiner that Mr Leadbeater and
. M. van Manen have raised in the passages quoted
earlier. On this question there exists a funda­
mental divergence between tho two systems, of
which it is impossible to give here in detail tho
absolutely opposite and practically endleBs con­
sequences.
It is easy to show the characteristics of the
different attitudes which would be the outcome of
these two methods.
8
114 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
That which dissociates moral and intellectual
aspirations from occult development, and seeks to
cultivate them separately, will not achieve moral
progress, since the inner nature is not transmuted;
but this method will produce a veritable debauch
of phrases invoking these aspirations. For, instead
of penetrating by means of the appropriate practice
into the inner regions of the soul, these aspirations
swirl, so to say, perpetually on the surface of the
mind. Their presence there will produce a kind of
psychic intoxication, sometimes rousing in the
occultist thoughts so much above his own mental
and moral standard, that he may come to regard
himself as a saint, while at the same time per­
forming the most despicable actions. Indeed, during
such times the conduct shows a moral retrogression
very noticeable when compared with the conduct
before this occult development. For this latter
increa8e8 and intensifies all the temptations, as
every occultist will admit. An increase of active
morality is, therefore, required if we would avoid
this most dangerous lack of balance.
The other method produces an opposite effect.
Restraint in the public utterance of moral principles
and intellectual aphorisms will be accentuated in
proportion as the results of occult training have
revealed the only true meaning of mental and
moral effort, sterile while it remains the object of
declamatory exhortation, fruitful only when put
F U N D A M E N T A L CA U SE S 115
into ‘
practice. Such would appear to be the result
of each of these two methods when we observe
them at work.
Do the facts justify these deductions? Those
recorded in this brochure do support them. We
shall find constantly in Mrs Besant and Mr
Leadbeater, under a great show of high moral
aspirations, the reality of an actual moral and
intellectual fall. Much emphasis is placed on
“ liberty of thought,” and at the same time the
intellectual desertion of this principle is preached
in counselling members to give blind obedience to
“ the least hint which falls from the lips of Mrs
Besant,” and to follow her implicitly whether she
is understood or not. And Mrs Besant, having
lent herself, in her dealings with Dr Steiner and
the German Section, to the worst kind of per­
secution, in the name of liberty of thought, after
having trodden under foot exoteric and esoteric
principles of morality, makes this touching appeal:
" Do not, I pray you who love me, pollute your
love with hatred. Do not return railing with
railing, nor reviling for reviling. Show to these
intolerant ones the tolerance which is one of the
‘Six Jewels’ of the ‘Qualifications.’ If they
hate, do you send out more love. If they insult,
do you pardon; if they revile, do you bless”
([Thcosopkist, March 1913, p. 809).
We all know that nothing would be easier than
116 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
to multiply instances. Does not every lecture of
Mrs Besant’s,every article of hers in the Theosophist,
contain passages in which she proclaims in the
most moving fashion moral beauties and intellectual
perfections ?
We see clearly that the fruits are precisely those
we should expect from the seed: the terrible
danger of this method can neither be misunder­
stood nor denied. So let us be resolute never to
lend ear to the words which in this school quite
naturally take the place of the honest and right
act, and so turn attention from the moral ugliness
of the actions performed. It is a true proverb that
says the way to hell is paved with good intentions.
Without unduly stretching the meaning, we might
add that this road re-echoes with the lost acclama­
tions of high intellectual ideals and with the pitiful
proclaiming of these same good intentions. If we
would avoid these snares, we shall close our hearts
to those sentimental accents which perpetually
exalt good and noble moral intentions. We shall
ask for moral acts. Acts alone showforth morality,
not attractive formulasflowing without effort from
literary or oratorical talent. The constant declara­
tion of liberty of thought, of human brotherhood,
cannot impress us when the actions of those who
delight in them enslave thought, persecute merit,
seek to poison souls by flimsy and deceptive
spiritual pronouncements.
F U N D A M E N T A L C A U SE S 117
Resolutely and unwaveringly we will say to
them : Enough of declamation, enough of pompous
phrases. Act morally. You multiply a hundred­
fold the evil of your actions by dazzling and
blinding your victims by the brilliance of your
fascinating oratory.
It is a painful duty to have to press this point
with such insistence. But now that we are facing
the consequences of the Leadbeater method on the
mental character of the clairvoyant, our warnings
in reference to still more serious harm will not
appear exaggerated.
We know that the higher regions of the invisible
worlds are those in which “consciousness”manifests
itself principally in the most intense awareness
of moral beauty.
Since this is so, the cultivation of the non-moral
clairvoyance could only attain results in the lower
regions of the astral world. The higher astral and
the devachanic worlds would remain entirely closed
to it. Just as a man who is colour-blind, though
not completely blind, is shut out from the world of
colours on this earth, because of some defect in the
physical organ of sight, so the organ of clairvoyant
sight, when developed according to certain methods,
will be blind to the moral outlines of subtle worlds,
and will thus be cut off from all their truly
spiritual content. Thefield of their experiences will
be limited to the lower regions of the astral plane.
118 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
And it is these lower visions, more frequently
experienced because of their affinity to elements
in the vehicles of the investigator not yet purified,
that will be presented as the most sublime images
of the higher worlds. For such a clairvoyant is
deprived of the high morality which is the force
leading our bodies by affinity towards truly
spiritual Beings. Deprived of the standard of
comparison that these provide, he will be the victim
of all the illusions of a world that is the veritable
motherland of illusion, for human errors are but
the faint reflection of these. Since the sense of
responsibility, which is essentially moral in origin,
will equally fail him, he will have no scruple in
sharing his illusions with all, in making known his
misleading experiences—the less since the forces,
whose sport he is, push him irresistibly to this.
Are they not in truth the adversaries of the divine
scheme of evolution, the servants and sowers of
error and immorality the world over ?
We have thus sketched in their broad hypotheti­
cal outlines the incalculable reactions that the defect
in the Leadbeater method brings into the inner
life, into the words and actions of those who yield
their souls to him and become zealous enthusiasts.
In demonstrating the fatal effects of this method
we have shown the real meaning of the faults and
failings of all kinds as exhibited by Mrs Besant,
who is its most fervent adherent. The right
F U N D A M E N T A L CAU SES 119
interpretation of the known facta seems to us so
entirely in conformity with the consequences, as
implied in our hypothesis, as to make it possible to
some extent to foresee these facts with scientific
certainty—which is precisely what has happened,
as we shall see.
We recall the “ Leadbeater case,” which in 1906
called forth within the Theosophical Society.no less
than outside, unanimous moral censure. Dr Steiner
took that occasion to mark the same distinction
between his own and the Leadbeater method as we
have shown is made by Mr Leadbeater and M. van
Manen. The following is an extract from the
circular sent in May of 1906 to the members of the
German Section: “ I can speak the more freely of
the Leadbeater affair since I have always deemed
it necessary to repudiate the methods by which he
arrives at his occult information, the spreading of
which he so extols. The occultism that I represent
compels me to this point of view. In saying this
I pronounce neither for nor against the accuracj7of
what Mr Leadbeater gives out as occult truths.
In occultism some little knowledge can be gained
by means of dangerous methods, involving the
constant risk of being misled in certain directions.1
1 I felt bound to ask D r S te in e r if his a ttitu d e to the w ritings
of M r L eadbeater lmd n o t changed since the publication of th a t
circu lar. H e replied th a t th e subsequent w orks of M r L ead­
b eater were of q u ite a d ifferen t character from such inform ation
as was placed w ith in reach by hia own system of investigation.
120 M R S B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
I thus feel compelled to seek the underlying causes
of the Leadbeater case, and I should like to say
that no one can guarantee himself against the
possibility of serious aberrations in adopting the
methods used by Mr Leadbeater in his occult work.
This being my point of view as to principles, the
Leadbeater case has caused me no surprise. But I
do not think that those who approve the methods
of investigation of this occultist have the right to
condemn him now. The circular sent to the
members should have made it elear that the charges
proved against Mr Leadbeater were not connected
with occultism, or it will destroy his whole system
of occultism. As for me, I am quite clear as to
this method ; and I have here explained my point
of view with the object of supplying the lack of
any official pronouncement in the executive notice.”
Our hypothetical explanation has exactly fitted
the facts. Does not this circular of Dr Steiner’s,
published in 1906, furnish us with a new and
absolutely conclusive proof of the perfect correct­
ness of our contentions ? Yet here are still further
facts providing more eloquent testimony.
Resigning from the Theosophical Society in
consequence of this afFair, Mr Leadbeater has since
returned, at the invitation of Mrs Besant; and
the moral “ irresponsibility ” that the Leadbeater
occultism develops in those who give themselves
up to it rises again to view in connection with the
F U N D A M E N T A L C A U SE S 121
incidents of his return. Dr Steiner had refused to
vote in favour of his readmission ; he had refrained
from voting. As the vote offered to “ invite ” the
return to the Theosophical Society, abstention
would be sufficient, if generally adopted, to prevent
Mr Leadbeater’s return.
In view of the form of the question asking for
the vote, abstention convej7
ed a more exact reply
than the vote against, without being so offensive.
It was clear and effective; passion was replaced
by a delicate shade of human brotherhood, that
all who appreciate true occultism would rejoice
to meet.
But Mrs Besant did not read it thus. She replied
to Dr Steiner that she interpreted his vote as
favourable to the return of Mr Leadbeater, since
it was not against; and Dr Steiner had to cable to
Adyar a long telegram, so that his vote might not
appear in the deliberations of the General Council
as favourable to the return of Mr Leadbeater.
Mrs Besant once more insisted in telegraphing:
“ You are the only General Secretary acting thus.”
This assertion was false, for the General Secretary
of the Scandinavian Section had equally refrained
from voting. And in the end it did not prevent
Mrs Besant from writing in her biographical sketch
of Mr Leadbeater, to be found in the Theosophist
of November 1911, p. 310: “ By a unanimous vote
of the General Secretaries of the Sections of the
122 M RS B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
Society throughout the world, Mr Leadbeater has
again entered the T.S.”
Thus we see, on whatever side we look, the
disastrous effects of the Adyar occultism; the
very meaning of the word Truth seems to have
disappeared.
Have the principles and methods of Mr Lead­
beater changed since he has returned to his place
amongst us ? He himself informs us on this point
in a letter written after the “ affair,” at the express
desire of Mrs Besant that he should “ define his
position” at the time that she started the well-
known campaign in favour of his readmission
(Theosophist, February 1908).
“You ask me,” says Mr Leadbeater, “to write
you a clear letter that you may show at need,
expressing my real views on the advice I gave
some time ago to certain young boys. I need
hardly say that I keep my promise not to repeat
the advice, for I defer to your opinion that it is
dangerous. I also recognise, as fully as yourself,
that it would be if it were promiscuously given,
but I have never thought of so giving it.”
In this declaration Mr Leadbeater first recognises
the danger of his advice, then immediately retracts
this confession by reservations which imply its
harmlessness in just those cases for which he is
blamed. He has not, as we see from this letter,
then changed his views; but the important fact is
F U N D A M E N T A L CA U SES 123
that he only speaks of “ danger,” and never of
“ immorality.” His moral standpoint remains,
then, unaltered—is precisely the same after as
before the exposS.
And what is this point of view ? Mrs Besant
thus gives it in a letter dated July 1906
(Theosophic Voice, May 1908):—
“Mr Leadbeater appeared before the Council
of the British Section, representatives from the
French and the American Sections being present
and voting. Colonel Olcott in the chair. He
denied none of the charges, but, in answer to
questions, very much strengthened them, for he
alleged . . } So that the advice . . } became advice
putting foul ideas into the minds of boys innocent
of all sex impulses . . } It was conceivable that the
advice, as supposed to have been given, had been
given with pwre intent, and the presumption was
so in a teacher of theosophical morality; anything
else seemed incredible. But such advice as was
given in fact, such dealing with boys before sex
passion had awakened, could only be given
with pure intent if the giver were, on this point,
insane.
“ Let me here place on record my opinion that
such teaching as this, given to men, let alone to
innocent boys, is worthy of the sternest reprobation.
It distorts and perverts the sex impulse, implanted
• T h e d e ta ils here given cannot be p u t in p rin t. Italics m ine.
124 M R S B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
in man for the preservation of the race; it degrades
the ideas of marriage, fatherhood, and motherhood,
humanity’s most sacred ideals; it befouls the
imagination, pollutes the emotions, and undermines
the health. Worst of all that it should be taught
under the name of Divine Wisdom, being essentially
‘earthly, sensual, devilish.’”
Mrs Besant then deemed Mr Leadbeater’s mor­
ality so defective as to be accounted for only by
mental derangement. Nevertheless, the promise
contained in the letter just quoted, and which
expresses no shadow of moral repentance whatso­
ever, nor anything approaching it, was sufficient,
in Mrs Besant’s eyes, to justify her in bringing
back into the Theosophical Society a teacher she
had judged thus. Could one ask a clearer proof
of the anarchy produced by such occultism ?
A recent suit, instituted by the parent of the
young Krishnamurti, reclaiming the custody of
his child, brings forward again this question of
morality, even if we eliminate all the old implica­
tions which spring to life again, reminding us of
the old exposd. In fact, the present case clearly
formulates the accusation of immoral conduct
testified to by witnesses. We need not examine
the value of those testimonies, since an entirely
different moral question arises first: What ob­
jections, worthy of counting in a code of high
morality, could be brought against a father re-
F U N D A M E N T A L CA U SES 125
claiming hie young sons, under such accusations,
from a woman to whom they had been confided ?
No written agreement could prevail against such
a demand, from the moment that a Brahmin father
(deemed worthy to fill the position of Assistant
Corresponding Secretary of the Esoteric Section
up to the time when these difficulties arose)
expressed his distrust by making such a demand.
The only right and worthy action was to give
the children to their father at once and without
discussion.
What does it matter in a case of this sort whether
the English courts decide for or against Mrs Besant ?
Perhaps they will allow themselves to be influenced
by Mrs Besant, who, to ensure that the children
shall not be returned to their father, asks the court
“ to permit her to protect the children from the
renewal of influences teaching them to hate the
English, instead of loving them as they now do,
and of being made into bad citizens ” (p. 9 of
Mrs Besant’s defence in the court, and published by
herself). In such a discussion, this attempt to play
upon the political interests of the judges is un­
expected, amazing—and, alas! significant. We see
clearly that a mind that shows itself capable of
throwing into the balance political appeals in a
matter of conduct, is utterly blind to the question
of human consideration that overshadows this
whole case. But the Western sympathy must be
126 M RS B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
wholly on the side of the parent, and must share
his pain and feeling in recognising the nature of
his grievances, the old “Leadbeater case,” and his
fears for the future.
Clear and unmistakable through all these actions
shows the consistent distortion of the moral out­
look, more serious since the esoteric ethics should
be an extension, a purification, an exaltation of
exoteric morality, and in no circumstances its
decline, its degradation, its negation. And if we
would realise to what extent this moral outlook
can be warped under certain influences, we need
but to hear Mrs Besant say of Mr Leadbeater:
“ By hard, patient work he has won rewards . . .
until he stands perhaps the most trusted of his
Master’s disciples on the threshold of Divinity ”
(Theosaphist, November 1911, p. 308).
This conception of the “Divinity ” that should
be the final expression of morality has no need of
comment other than that same “deification ” by his
colleague — who five years earlier regarded his
teachings as so utterly immoral as to suggest
mental derangement as the only explanation. The
mere quotation is sufficient. Yet how can we
refrain from recalling the injurious gossip of this
“ new ” god denying the Life and Death of the
true God, from remembering his advice, so utterly
at variance with that of the Buddha? Perhaps
we shall understand these things a little better if
F U N D A M E N T A L CAU SES 127
we remember that this occultist, if he contradicts
the Buddha, on the other hand almost deifies Mrs
Besant. Possibly, taking into consideration this
exchange of admiration, the meaning of these
“deifications” will become sufficiently clear.
CONCLUSION
W e have been studying perhaps the most serious
faults that have ever been connected with questions
of such a high order, of such a kind as to demand
of every true occultist the redoubling of the critical
faculty, exceptional moral rectitude, the most
scrupulous and rigid veracity. Mrs Besant, on
the contrary, in restoring to Mr Leadbeater his
influence over herself and over the destinies of the
Theosophical Society, has proved her failure in
moral vigilance and her lack of intellectual dis­
crimination as regards methods to which she thus
falls the first victim. And the sorry contradictions
that this brings into her spiritual message, the
utter disregard of truth resulting from this, impel
her to words and actions that now involve an
incalculable number of victims, misled by their
devoted trust in her. Her responsibility is in
truth a very terrible one. Yet must we think of
her only with love, for she has not willed to do
evil; she is herself the most blinded, the most
unhappy victim of all, whose discrimination and
128
C O N C LU SIO N 129
moral sense seem to have perished in this deplorable
catastrophe. Let us try to retrieve for her, each
within his own circle, all who can yet be retrieved
—for the disaster is serious.
For all of us who are not ranged with our
President, and who do not incur her overwhelming
responsibility, there are serious lessons to be learnt
from these facts, and a solemn duty laid upon us.
Through all these trials wo have learnt that there
must be no compromise with truth; to disregard
this in the affairs of daily life, to encourage in­
accuracies that disfigure it, is to expose ourselves
to the worst errors in the domain of esoteric
investigation, whether it be a question of our own
clairvoyance or of our acceptance of the results of
the investigations of others. This for us is certain,
that spiritual truths remain hidden from those
whose hearts are not pure, whose purpose is not
honest and upright. We now understand the fatal
mistakes of Mrs Besant in consulting the records
of the spiritual world in search of the true Christ;
we understand the source of all her errors and all
her faults; and our realisation transmutes itself
into the conscious turning towards a passionate
and single-minded devotion to truth. We would
cast away all the wealth of these experiences, we
would throw away everything, rather than truth;
for if we betray that we shall betray not only the
Theosophical Society and its ideal, but the whole
9
130 M R S B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
ol‘ humanity, since we firmly believe that our
Society is the leaven of its spiritual progress.
Thus clearly enlightened as to the extent of the
problem facing our conscience, we hear the clear
strong voice of duty. If we join forces with Mrs
Besant in a blind loyalty that bows before all her
actions, applauds all her words, we intensify her
karma, with the whole weight of our own moral
ruin and with that of the Society, to which we
shall thus have contributed. If, on the contrary,
scrupulously faithful to our ideal of truth and
moral beauty, w
T
e understand that it is a part of
our duty to assert this fidelity while we clearly
protest against the sad failings that we see taking
place, we shall truly rally to Mrs Besant’s assistance.
Her eternal, her true self will realise this, and we
shall have done our utmost to save a work which
is dear to us above all else—the theosophical work
in the world—and which is in grave danger, which
hastens to shipwreck.
It is thus, after long years of enthusiastic
support, that I have come to regard the actions
of Mrs Besant—and of Mr Leadbeater equally, of
course—as the leaven of destruction, of disintegra­
tion in the Theosophical Society. Not that its
outward prosperity on the physical plane seems
menaced; we know very surely that this in no
way represents the motive power, the true strength
of our Society. What are blighted are the living
C O N C LU SIO N 131
forces, the spiritual sap, that make possible the
fulfilment of its mission in the world. These
powers spring but from one source: from truth—
the motto of the Tlicosophical Society that we
know so well.
When Mrs Besant’s eyes turn towards the
splendours of papal Rome, towards the wealth of
its churches and the number of its adherents, she
thinks that spiritual power is not a matter of out­
ward splendour or of organisation. Equally, the
glory of Adyar, or the number, however great, of
the members of the Theosophical Society does not
count, alas! when we consider the spiritual value
of our Society. Only sacred devotion to Truth will
justify the present and safeguard the future. In
spite of the most reassuring external prosperity,
the Theosophical Society, if its ideal is not respected
by those who direct its destinies, may hasten to
spiritual ruin. It may perhaps even pass through
this tem'ible experience while Adyar sees its print­
ing jwesscs of the very latest type, its buildings,
and its gardens multiply, while its authority
spreads over an increasing number of docile
adherents.
We cannot rid ourselves of a growing disquiet
in seeing Mrs Bcsant, in her monthly articles in the
Theosophist, entitled “ On the Watchtower,” so
tirelessly expressing such great and manifest
satisfaction in every smallest material increase,
132 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
improvement, and enrichment of the Adyar Head­
quarters.
Mr Leadbeater shares in this joy. Speaking of
Mrs Besant in the Adyar Album, p. 7, he praises
at great length the material improvements of the
Headquarters: “ In her reign have been added to
the estate no less than six valuable pieces of
property.” Thus temporal power would clearly
seem to be the main concern of Adyar. And we
involuntarily turn to the words of Christ, who so
well described the spiritual splendours: “ My
kingdom is not of this world.” Not thus does
Mrs Besant understand spirituality, since she
“ reigns ” as a prince of this world, over a kingdom
that grows by her conquests; and her herald seems
equally devoted to this same ideal. For a like
concern follows Mr Leadbeater even into his occult
investigations into the twenty-eighth century, in
which he sees “a kind of gorgeous palace with an
enormous dome, the central part of which must be
an imitation of the Taj Mahal at Agra, but on a
much larger scale. In this great building they
mark as memorials certain spots by pillars and
inscriptions, such as . . . here such and such a
book was written . . . they even have statues of
some of us . . .” (Man: Whence, How, and
Whither).
Is not this last revelation just a little too
transparent to be modest ? It seems very clearly
C O N C LU SIO N 133
to indicate the state of mind of this explorer of
future centuries. Yet still other details — vast
estates covered with buildings, Adyar become a
place of pilgrimage for people from all parts of
the world, etc., etc.— justify these fears. They
remind us once more of the great pitfall of pride,
and that only the constant quest after and practice
of truth, the closing of the mind to the least
whispers of personal ambitions of any kind, will
ensure spiritual progress and make for really sane
material growth.
In resigning from the Theosophical Society I
believe myself to have performed an imperative
duty to the world, to the members of the Theosophical
Society, to Mrs Besant, and to myself. I would
desire to emphasise these separate points.
At this time when the President of the Thco-
sophical Society has, so to say, driven Theosophy
into exile, it is necessary to explain, for the benefit
of those who look on from outside, that the moral
shipwreck of the Theosophical Society does not
carry with it the wreck of Theosophy itself, the
immortal principles of which will always find souls
to defend them. In the Key to Theosophy, p. 39,
Mine. Blavatsky, that noble soul, wrote these words:
“ Theosophy is the fixed eternal sun, and its Society
the evanescent comet trying to settle in an orbit
to become a planet, ever revolving within the
attractions of the sun of Truth.” When this Society
134 M R S B E SA N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
loses its rhythm, ceases to gravitate round the sun
of Truth, when it becomes a wandering comet after
having been a fixed planet during the time that
the impulse given by its generous founders lasted,
the souls dazzled by Truth, sick and weary, will
abandon the wandering comet. They will emigrate,
will create a new centre, ardently attached to the
sun of Truth. “A true theosophist must put in
practice the loftiest moral ideal,” writes Mme.
Blavatsky on p. 18 of this same book. We see
that, if we would not risk degrading Theosophy
itself befoi'e the world, we cannot remain longer
members of the Theosophical Society.
As to the members of the Theosophical Society,
most sincerely devoted to their ideals of truth, I
have felt it to be an imperative duty to place
before them an impartial statement of the clear
and definite meaning of these unimpeachable and
verifiable facts, for they are being given incom­
plete, inaccurate, and misleading accounts. I have
attempted to raise a cry of alarm that it may
prepare them in some measure to act in their turn,
and to repudiate their President’s actions, when
they have recognised the accuracy of all that
precedes.
I have already explained what service I feel I
have rendered to Mrs Besant in acting as I have.
As for myself, the impelling need of inner recti­
tude and outward loyalty has forced me to break
C O N C LU SIO N 135
all connection with the present direction given to
the Theosophical Society by our President.
My attachment to Mrs Besant dwelt in the
innermost sanctuary of my soul, and was bound
up with my highest aspirations. I have been
unable to disobey the demands of my conscience,
in spite of the fierce struggles that have torn my
heart while writing these pages. I have acted in
accordance with my highest judgment, obeying my
love of truth, in entire fidelity to our sacred cause,
that I firmly hope I serve in acting as I havo done.
It is our ideal of a lived Theosophy that I would
recall to those who would judge me, and the links
which bind me to every true theosophist throughout
the world will not suffer with them any break. It
is in this spirit that I withdraw for the time from
the Theosophical Society, till the day when there
shall be at its head a President scrupulously devoted
to Truth, and fully conscious of the responsibility
of the words he pronounces and the acts he per­
forms, whether in his capacity as teacher or
President. Will this day ever come ? This can
only be decided by the extent of the intervention
of the members. In the meantime the situation
seems almost hopeless.
I openly deplore the fact that Mrs Besant is
pledged to a method of occult development in
which morality is at best only optional, and has
thus let loose upon our Society scourges of all kinds.
136 M R S B E S A N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
I publicly express my regret that Mrs Besant,
claiming the prerogatives of a teacher, which should
impose upon her the duty of a strict and watchful
restraint, has nevertheless made use of it to create
a confusion between the true Christ and an obscure
individual, and in order to secure for the benefit of
the latter the deep aspirations of the human soul
attached to its Redeemer.
I openly deplore the fact that Mrs Besant,
supporting her action on a mendacious and
untenable accusation, has dared to expel 2400
members, when recourse to the Free Section, a
part of the administrative scheme, would have
settled all difficulties, even if her grievances,
instead of being untrue, had been well founded;
and that Mrs Besant lias thus torn our charter of
brotherhood, and has monopolised for her own and
Mr Leadbeater’s benefit the principle of liberty of
teaching secured in our Constitution.
Finally, I regret that it was because the voice of
our President addressed to the General Convention
of assembled Sections a calumny—that is to say,
not merely some inaccuracy, some mistake or other,
but the worst of all—that this has been believed by
25,000 souls ardently devoted to Truth. They
have been thus deceived because of their confidence
in Mrs Besant, and have been roused to indignation
against a man who is nevertheless an eminent
teacher, irreproachable, and worthy to be ranked
C O N C LU SIO N 137
with the highest, even did one only know, as Mrs
Besant, of such great and splendid works as have
already appeared in English translations. But
since it is a matter of injury and defamation, it is
right that one who has known the author and his
work should testify that his personal life appears
to be, in the fullest meaning of the words, the
realisation of the ideal of life given to us in his
books. May it be further permitted me to offer, in
answer to the belittling of his work, a tribute of
admiration and of reverence to such a marvellously
convincing system of occult science, so wonderful in
the might of its strength and beauty, so supremely
harmonious in spite of its immense proportions ?
Mr Leadbeater and M. van Manen have already
informed us as to the method of occult development
of Dr Steiner. His books, The Way of Initiation
and Initiation and its Results, give his principles
and his system. Nowhere shall we find Dr
Steiner giving advice calculated to develop
clairvoyance without spirituality, without moral
principles, without intellectual qualifications. His
own work bears eloquent testimony to the results
of such a method when carried out in practice.
In this work an unbroken logical sequence
bears out every assertion and unites the parts into
a harmonious whole. It is not at the price of
a denial of the historical life of Christ, or of a
disregard for the Gospels, but by means of a study
138 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
respecting the finest shades of meaning in both,
that Dr Steiner proves the correctness of his
communications, the fruit of preliminary researches
and first-hand experiences in the spiritual worlds.
The clear statement of these careful observations
covers the whole of the evolution of our Universe,
thus giving us new facilities of control through the
consulting of the most ancient Scriptures, extending
from the Vedas, through the Indian philosophies,
Bhagavad-Git&, Buddhism, to the Mysteries, the
mythologies and philosophies of all times, through
the appearance of successive civilisations, to the
discoveries of modern science. Every assertion of
Dr Steiner’s, concerning whatever fact of the
spiritual worlds—whether it be of the absurdity of
the physical reincarnation of the Christ or any
other point in his teachings—is invariably in
harmony with all his other statements, with all
documents, historical or scientific, within reach of
our study, with the demands of our reason and the
noblest aspirations of the human heart.
To give an example: The incarnations of
Krishna and the Buddha, the version of the
Eastern Scriptures being scrupulously observed,
form part, with the life of Christ as recorded in
the Gospels, of a supreme synthesis, in which each
being and each event, in the one frame, evolves
in an unbreakable and sublime haripony, with
the strict order and perfect co-ordination that
C O N C LU SIO N 139
characterise, in a living organism, the performance
of the functions and the interplay of the organs.
All who know the teachings of Dr Steiner know
that a real and deep understanding of the nature
of Krishna and of the Buddha gives an illuminat­
ing corroboration of the events in Palestine, and
the nature of the Christ, as of the contents of the
Gospels themselves. The work of Dr Steiner is in
reality unique in the annals of humanity, and will
remain indelibly engraven therein.
There is great bitterness in the thought that the
very ones, amongst souls now in incarnation, who
should be the best prepared to receive such
teaching, these 25,000 theosophists, should have
been turned from it by the one whom they have
chosen as their guide to the true knowledge
of the spiritual worlds—by the efforts of their
President.
MEMENTO
Out of all these ordeals Theosophy will rise purified
and strengthened.
For the storm arises to overwhelm its most
redoubted adversaries—the personal cult of its
teachers, and the policy of expediency as regards
moral principles.
More deeply than any past crisis in the
Theosophical Society should the present one
engrave on our hearts the Love of Tmuth, the
practice of which, for the student of the laws
of the Universe, will lead ever and infallibly to
moral purity and to intellectual discrimination.
Theosophy, the Eternal Divine Wisdom, is and
will remain for ever inviolable.
What will become of the Theosophical Society,
the wandering comet turning towards the abyss ?
All will depend on the individual initiative
of each of its members. Thus the responsibility
of each single member of the Theosophical Society
is at the present time immense. At this moment
the Past, Present, and Future sound solemn warn­
ing. To men and gods alike is it of equal and
immeasurable importance that each one should do
his duty.
140
ADDENDUM
S i n c e the publication of the original edition
of this brochure, judgment has been pronounced
in the case mentioned on p. 106. The judge con­
sidered the evidence offered in support of the
charges of immoral conduct brought by the father
of the youth Krishnamurti against Mr Leadbeater
to be insufficient and unreliable. In reply, how­
ever, to the question, “ Had the defendant (Mrs
Besant) permitted the children to associate with
a person of immoral character,” the judgment was
given in the affirmative with regard to Mr Lead­
beater. It also included the statement that Mrs
Besant had broken the promise she had made to
the father of separating the children from Mr
Leadbeater. The judge ruled that the children
should be removed from the care of Mrs Besant
and given back to the father within a fixed time.
The Times of 8th May 1913 published extracts
from this judgment which ascribed to the judge
an opinion unfavourable to the morality of Mr
Leadbeater. Mrs Besant and her friends at once
141
142 M R S B E SA N T A N D T H E P R E S E N T C R IS IS
indignantly protested against an alleged distortion
of the judgment. It was even said that the judg­
ment had completely cleared Mr Leadbeater from
all the suspicions raised by the case. However, as
the judge’s affirmative reply to the question stated
above is a fact, it is plain that this asserted vindi­
cation is a mere play upon words and an attempt
to mislead.
Further legal proceedings have confirmed, with
yet more precision, the infamous immorality of
which Mr Leadbeater stands accused. (See report
in The Hindu, Madras, of 9th May 1913.) A
Madras medical review called The Antiseptic had
published an article in which apprehension of the
establishment of a “Temple of Onanism ” at Adyar
was expressed. The Hindu newspaper reprinted
this scandal. Mrs Besant took proceedings against
the author of the article and the publisher of
The Antiseptic; and the treasurer of the Tlieo-
sophical Society was moved at the same time to
action against The Hindu. All three cases were
dismissed. The gravity of the position is evident.
Mr Leadbeater’s methods have been proved by his
own admissions as well as by documents before the
Court to be subversive of morality.
Amongst the documentary evidence before the
Court was a letter, partly written in cipher, sent
by Mr Leadbeater to a young boy without the
knowledge of his parents. This letter cannot be
A D D E N D U M 143
published here, for the publication of gross obscenity
such as it includes is actionable by the criminal
code of civilised countries. It would be difficult to
imagine a more tragic fall on the moral barometer
than that of the author of this letter. If, notwith­
standing my extreme repugnance, I quote the final
words, it is with the sole object of demonstrating
how audacious is the travesty of truth which can
impute a pure motive to the author of this letter,
of which perusal must carry the conviction that
any attempt at rehabilitation is as degrading to its
author as is the letter to its writer, who ends it
with the words, “Glad sensation is so pleasant.
A thousand kisses, darling.” Is it possible, in the
face of such a passage, to allege, as Mrs Besant has
done, mere advice of a preventive nature ? So
extravagant a claim can only be spurned with
indignation.
We must also entirely reject Mr Leadbeater’s
very belated denial of having written cipher letters
to boys. He forgets that Mrs Besant in November
1908 wrote the following lines in her circular letter
to members of the Theosophical Society, p. 10:
“ Much has been made of a ‘cipher letter.’ The
use of the cipher arose from an old story in
the Tlieosophist, repeated by Mr Leadbeater to a
few lads; they, as boys will, took up the cipher
with enthusiasm, and it was subsequently sometimes
used in correspondence with the boys who had been
144 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
present when the story was told. In a typewritten
note on a fragment of paper, undated and unsigned,
relating to an astral experience, a few words in
cipher occur on the incriminated advice. Then
follows a sentence, unconnected with the context,
on which a foul construction has been placed.”
One realises that, on account of the delicate
nature of the charges formulated against him in
the lawsuit, Mr Leadbeater, profiting by the fact
that this letter had not been filed in the evidence,
tried to deny it. These denials are cited, p. 198
of Mrs Besant and the Alcyone Case, a book pub­
lished by Goodwin & Co., Mylapore, Madras, 1913,
price 3s. This book contains a complete account
of the lawsuit for the recovery of Krishnamurti
and his brother, together with copies of a quantity
of documents and papers filed in the case, which,
in themselves, are remarkably conclusive. This
denial is in direct contradiction to the formal
statement by Mrs Besant just quoted, and it throws
a fresh light on the morality of Mr Leadbeater.
One does not know how he could even plead lapse
of memory, as Mrs Besant in her above-quoted letter
admits the use of the cipher. Confronted with such
a gravely compromising letter, one realises that plain
denial must have been his last resource. The prudent
statement of Mrs Besant, who, when mentioning the
letter in 1908,avoids characterising the “few words”
" on the incriminated advice,” clearly shows that at
A D D E N D U M 145
that time the text of the letter appeared to her
too explicit, too damaging to apply to it the ex­
tenuating term of “ preventive advice ”—tactics
then already adopted, and to-day stretched so as
to cover all his practices. She finally risked the
declaration that the last words of this letter—
those which I have quoted—had no connection with
those which preceded them: a singularly audacious
declaration if one states that these words are
placed, without interruption, apace, or interval,
immediately after the obscene phrases which are
incriminating. One is amazed thus to see even
the evidence denied and such flagrant perversion.
Mrs Besant added in 1908 that Mr Leadbeater,
to whom a friend had then communicated a copy
of this cipher letter, "did not recognise it in its
present form.” In regard to this declaration we
have only to remember the incontestable admission
which it implies, without concerning ourselves with
its restrictive character. Whatever may have been
the shortcomings of the copy first supplied by his
friend, Mr Leadbeater has since received a legally
attested photograph of the original, but he has
never pointed out in what respect it had been
altered so as to make it unrecognisable by him.
The fact that this document was neither dated nor
signed leads us to ascribe an even more infamous
character to the author: he himself fully gauged
the ignominy of the act he was committing, and
146 MRS BESANT AND THE PRESENT CRISIS
therefore endeavoured to keep it secret from all
except the boy he was perverting by his com­
munications. These facts condemn Mr Leadbeater
without possibility of appeal; they reveal to us,
with regard to Mrs Besant, a truly degrading com­
plaisance, by reason of her desire to hide a crime
as patent as it is abominable.
I feel strongly the need of excusing myself for
alluding to such a subject, and giving rise to the
disgust inseparable from the matter; but the re­
flection that at this moment there are about 25,000
persons who revere Mrs Besant and Mr Leadbeater
as their devoted followers, and, in a general way,
even desire to tread in their footsteps, compels me
to overcome the hesitation which must precede the
publication of pages such as these. The question
is really one of a duty which cannot be ignored,
for the members of the Theosophical Society are
not only kept in complete ignorance regarding
these facts, but the administration of Adyar,
through its extensive propaganda, has a great
influence over new members in all countries, while
concealing and perverting the truth. Public warn­
ing has therefore become indispensable.
The existence of persons like Mr Leadbeater, who
admit and practise the worst perversities, is a sad
reminder of the darker side of human nature; yet
the attitude of simply ignoring that such things
exist seems indefensible when these persons pretend
A D D E N D U M 147
to the highest morality and represent themselves
as guides towards spiritual development, and, while
claiming to stand "on the threshold of divinity,”
dare to disguise facts and pass over in silence judg­
ments officially pronounced by official tribunals.
The danger that such persons may continue to
extend their empire over the souls of others is an
increasing one.
A sad fatality has placed the banner of Theosophy
in the hands of persons who have fallen below the
standard of ordinary morality. That which causes
the deepest pain to Mrs Besant’s old friends is the
opinion expressed by the police court magistrate
in the defamation cases above referred to, for he
considered that the facts before him, and the
documentary evidence, supported the viow that
Mrs Bosant had known of and even countenanced
the practices of Mr Leadbeater. Her attitude in
defence of Mr Leadbeater, of which we have
given an account, unhappily lends colour to the
interpretation.
The feeling which here arrests my pen, and
prevents me from saying more on the matter, will
be understood by those who have followed me so
far, and they may hear across my silence the voice
of their own sorrow.
l'RIHTKD BT NHILL AND 00., LTD., KDINBUROU.
