{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__fowler___synopsis_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Synopsis Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
Centered according to Act ot Congress, in tne year 18TS3, by O. S. Fowler, In the
Clerk's Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.]
SYNOPSIS OF PHRENOLOGY;
AND THE
PHRENOLOGICAL DEVELOPEMENTS,
TOGETHER WITH
THE CHARACTER AND TALENTS,
AS GIVEN BY
WITH REFERENCES TO THOSE PAGES OF " PHRENOLOGY PROVED, ILLUSTRATED,
AND APPLIED," IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND A FULL AND CORRECT
DELINEATION OF THE INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL
CHARACTER AND MANIFESTATIONS OF THE
ABOVE-NAMED INDIVIDUAL.
BY O. S. FOWLER, A. B.
4UTH0R OP "PHRENOLOGY PROVEn, ILLUSTRATED, AND APPLIED;" " ANSWER
TO VINDEXj" " THB NATURAL THEOLOGV OF PHREN0L0G1'," &C. &C
FOR SALE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY FOWLER AND BREVOORT,
PRACTICAL PHRENOLOGISTS,
AT THE PHRENOLOGICAL ATHEN^UM,
210 Chestnut street, Philadelphia*
FIFTH EDITION.
EXPLANATION.
The proportionate size of the phrenological organs of the individual
examined, and, consequent^, the relative power and energy of his primary
mental powers ; that is, his moral and intellectual character and manifesto*
lions, will be indicated by the written figures I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7: figure 1 sig-
nifying VERY SMALL; 2, SMALL J 3, MODERATE; 4, AVERAGE; 5, FULL;
6, LARGE ; 7, VERY LARGE.
In oider to make the indications still plainer, these figures will be written
opposite to those lines which describe the individual examined ; and at the
tnd of these lines, figures are placed which refer to those pages of " Phrenc-
logy Proved, Illustrated, and Applied," in which will be found a full descrip-
tion, as well of his individual characteristics as of the results of feelings,
character, talents, capabilities, &c. produced by the combined operation of hw
I' cul is • in LIi.il degree in which he possesses them.
A
[Entered according to Act of Congress in me year HB8 I U. S. F 1 Um
Clerk's Olice uf the Eastern District uf Peix1gyl'ania5WLER'
n
SYNOPSIS OF PHRENOLOGY;
PHRENOLOGI CAL DEVELOPEMENTS,
THE CHARACTER AND TALENTS,
OF / ,A
._ ,' / -
'
,A
vez; fi "4 r2"lf e/if
AS GIVEN BY
O
O
O
O
S
/7% ,~ L
/'
,
WITH REFERENCES T0 THOSE PAGES OF
"
PHRENOLOGY PROVED, ILLUSTRATLD,
AND APPLIED," IN' VIIIC}I WILL BE FOUND A FULL AND CORRECT
DELINEATION OF THE INTELLECTUAL AND MORAL
CHARACTER AND MANIFESTATIONS OF THE
ABOVE-NAMED INDIVIDUAL.
BY O. S. F(`)VLER, A.B.
'D
urruon. or "Pr-uusuonocv Pnoven, ILLUSTRATED, nm APPLIED ;" "nnsvmn
'ro vINn1u;" "THE NATURAL Tuuotocr or P1-m.ENox.oGr," dsc. Acc.
FOR SALE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY FOUVLER AND BREVOORT,
PRACTICAL PHRENOLOGISTS,
AT THE PHRENOLOGICAL ATHICNJEUM,
210 Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
FIFTH EDITION.
- --__ ,_i
EXPLANATION.
T1-ir: PROPORTIONATE size of the phi-enologicnl organs of the individual
examined, and, consequently, the relative power and energy of his primary
mental powers; that is, his mural and intellectual vharantar and manifesta-
tions, will be indicated by the written figures l, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7: figure 1 sig-
nifying venv snr/tu.; 2, smALL; 3, nionsanre; 4, .4_vr;nAae; 5, run;
6, LARGE; 7, VERY LARGE.
In order to make the indications still plriiner, these figures will be written
cpposite to those lines which describe the individual examined; and at the
(C
and of these ]ines,figures are placed which refer to those pages of Phreno~
d d A li d "in which will be found a ful] descrip-
logy Proved, lllustrate , an pp e , _
tion, as well of his individual characteristics as of the results of
feel;_ng's,
zlmracter, talents, capabilities, &c. pimluccd by the combzmd operauon u na
f.cul iif in l=.=t dz-gmc in which he possesses them.
A
2 synopsis or punswotooT.
Explanation op the Cuts, (abbreviated c.) Cut 1 shows the location,
number, and abbreviated name of the organs : 2, their general divisions or
classification.- 3, 4, present occipital and frontal views of the organs;
5 is a profile cut of Washington : 6, of Franklin : 7, of Herschel : 8, 9, oi
Le Blanc, the murderer of Judge Sayre and family, of N. J. :
10 represents
a well balanced, or perfect head : 1 1 is a cut of a highly intellectual female,
and one endowed with great versatility of talents: 12, 13, are cuts of
Me-che-Ke-le-a-tah, the celebrated war-chief of the Miami Indians :
14 w
a cut of Aurelia Chase, murderer of Dr. Durkey's wife, Bait. : 15, of Black
Hawk: 16, 17, of an Indian chief: 18, of De Witt Clinton: 19, of Bru-
nell. engineer of the Thames tunnel, Eng. : 20, of Philip, a notorious thief
and'liar, (p. 320) : 21, 27, of a skull found on the British lines at York
town, Va. : 22, 23, of a remarkably intelligent monkey : 24, 32, of a hyena
:
25, 26, of a N. A. Indian : 28, of an idiotick child : 29, of a full-grown idiot
:
30,37, of an ichneumon: 31,36, of a fox: 34, crow: 37, 43, of a very cun-
ning and roguish cat : 40, of Shakspeare, from an English portrait, said to
be the most correct extant: 41, of Robert Hall : 42, a New Zealander. ,
[The small figures (second row,) placed before the names of the organs,
are the numbers of Spurzheim.]
Dffinitions.—1, or Vert Small, means almost wholly wanting:
2, or Small, feeble and inactive ; 3, or Moderate, signifies rather below
mediocrity ; active only in a subordinate degree ; and having only a limited
influence upon the mind and character : 4, or Average, means fair, or
between moderate and full, and includes the general analysis of the
faculties : 5, or Full, signifies respectable, though not marked or control-
ling : 6, or Large, applied to an organ, shows that its corresponding
faculty has a powerful and an energetick influence upon the capabilities
and feelings, if not conduct: 7, or Vert Larhe, means predominant,
especially over the less energetick faculties; constituting and giving tone
and direction to the character and talents ; easily excited, and powerful in
action ; and quite liable to perversion and abuse.
The size of the head of the individual examined, the degree of activity,
the quantum, or amount, of mental strength and power, the sharpness and
the smoothness of the phrenological organs, and the corresponding degree
ef excitability of the faculties, and the various proportions of the tempera^
ments, together with the relative development of the several classes of organs,
will be indicated in the same manner. The cuts do not show the relative size.
The sign -f , (plus, or more,) placed before or after a figure, shows that
it is larger than it is marked, yet not enough so to require the next larger
figure : the sign —,
(minus, or less,) that it is not quite as much as it is
marked. These signs add and diminish nearly one-half of a degree.
Excesses and defects of character are marked by curved dashes. A
curved dash drawn under a figure, thus ,6 , or £, indicates that the organs
thus marked, considered in reference to their combinations, are liable to be
over exercised, or perverted, and require to be closely watched and judiciously
directed, or else restrained ; a curved dash drawn over a written figure,
thus 2, signifies that the weakness of the faculty thus marked, constitutes a
palpable defect of character, and that it should be cultivated and stimulated.
The printed figures in the margin, refer to the number of their respective
faculties, or the order in which they are described, and the figures in the
cuts, to the location of the corresponding faculties in the head, except the
figures under, or in the open parts of the cuts, which refer to their number
2 gyxopslg or PHIVBNOLOGY.
EXPLAYATIDN or -rue Cm-s. (abbreviated e.) Cut 1 shows
the (0¢:Uf!07?»
ff 5
"
their general dwrstona or
number, and abbreviated nam/2 of the orhfill '¢ ~,
'
_
cla.ss§fz`cation .'
3, 4, present occipital and
frontal views of U10 Organ!-
5 is a profile cut of Washington: 0, of Frankl1r}2 7, Of 1I<frs°hel= 31 9: °f
Le Blanc, the murderer of Judge Sayre and firnnlyf of
N." JJ 10 TQPTCSCUW
a well balanced, or perfect head : 1 1 is at cut of a highly intellectual female,
and one endowed with rfreat versatilitv of 131011751 12, 13. are Cuts Of
Me-che-Ke-le-a-tall, the celebrated war-chief of
tl1C.M18IDl Indians: 14 L9
3 ent of Aurelia Chase, murderer of Dr. I)urkey's vufe, l3alt.: 15, of Black
Hawk: 16, 17, of an Indian ehief: 19, of Us Wlll
Qlllltoni 13, Of
Bru-
ngll I engineer gf the Tlmmgs tunnel, Eng.: 20, of
Philip, a
notorious thief
andiliar, (p. 320) ; 21, 27, of a skull found on the British lines at York
town, Va.: 22, 23, ofa remarkably intelligent monkey: 21, 351, of a hyena:
25, 26, ofa N. A. Indian: 28, of an idiotielr child: 29, ofa full-grown idiot:
3O,3'7, of an ielincnmon: 31, 36, ofa fox: 31, crow:
37, 43,ofa very cun-
ning and roguish cat: 40, of Slmkspeare, from an English portrait, said to
be the most eorreet extant: 41, of Robert Hall : 42, a New Zealunder. ,
[The small figures (second rov,) placed before the names of t|1e organs,
are the numbers of »SpILI'Z}Zf`l.lll.]
Drrrxrrroxs.-1, or Vern: Snr.LL, means almost wholly wanting:
2, or SMALL, feeble and inactive ; 3, or Mom-:ru_'rr:, signifies rather below
mediocrity ; active only in a subordinate degree; and having only a limited
influence upon the mind and character: 4, or AVERAGE, means fair, or
between moderate and full, and includes the general analysis of the
faculties : 5, or Frm., signifies respectable, though not marked or eontrol-
ling: 6, or L,umr:, applied to an organ, shows that its corresponding
faculty has a powerful and an encrgetick influence upon the capabilities
and _fee/ings, if not conduet: 7, or Viznv Lutnrz, means predominant,
especially mer the less energctick faculties; constituting and giving tone
and direction to the character and talents; easily excited, and powerful in
aetion; and quite liable to perversion and abuse.
The size of the /Lead of the individual examined, the degree of ac!1'vif_z/,
the qurmlum, or amon11.t,of mental strength and power, the sfzazymess and
the smool/mess of the plrrcnological organs, and the corresponding llergvec
of czcilubilily of the faculties, and the various prujwrzfiorzs ff I/Le lemjieru-
ments, together with tl1e relative development of the several classes of organs,
will be indicated in the same manner. The cuts do not shov the relative size.
The sign Jr, (plus, or
more,) placed before or after a
figure, shows that
it is larger than it is marked, yet not enough so to require the next larger
HEUYG I V-lm Si2l`l -, (minus, or
lm-ss.) that it is not quite as much as it is
marked. Tlicse signs add and diminish nearly one-lialfofa degree.
Excesses and defects of eharaeter are marked by curved dashes. A
curved dash drawn um/'fa' a figure, thus fy, or
3, indientes that thc organs
thus marked, considered in referenee to their combinations, are liable to be
miter ezrrcisrf/, or
perverted, and require to be closely watehed and judiciously
dlTEC1;(i(l,l01' .else restrained; a curved dash drawn ou., H wrmen figure,
thus 2, signifies that the weakness ofthe faculty thus marked, constitutes a
palpable defrct of
character, and that it should be cultivated and stimulated.
The prtnlcd figures ll) the margin, refer to the number of their respective
faculties, or the order in which they are described, and the figures in tim
puts,
to the
localirm of the corresponding fireulties in the head, except the
rgures under, or in the open paris of the cuts, which refer to their number,
PHRENOLOGY.
Develops and points out those relations which exist between certain
conditions and developments of the brain, and the manifestations of the
mind. For a statement of the fundamental principles of this science, the
reader is referred either to the cover of this synopsis, or else to pp. 7—36,
of " Phrenology Proved," &c. We have here only room to allude briefly
to the principal conditions upon which the mental manifestations are
found to depend.* These are mainly as follows.
L The size of the braijt, other conditions being equal, is found to be
the measure of the aggregate amount of the mental power ; and the rela-
tive size of the several organs of an individual, indicates the proportional
strength and energy of his corresponding/«cw//(es.
It should, however, be remembered, that the amount of one's mental
power, depends even more upon these "other conditions," such as his
organization, or the vigour of his constitution, the condition of his nutri-
tive organs, the state of his health, his temperament, the amount of
excitement under which his various faculties act, his education, habits,
diet, &c, than upon the size of his brain alone. Accordingly, in conse-
quence of different degrees of health, rest, fatigue, excitement, &c, the
manifested quantity or amount of a man's mental power, will vary twenty,
forty, and even eighty per cent, whilst the kind or quality will differ
little if any. Hence, both in proving phrenology, and also in applying its
principles, the province of the phrenologist is to point out the character
or kind of talents and mental power, rather than their precise amount
;
and yet, if he is informed as to these " other conditions," (and it is not
only his right to know them, but preposterous in him to pronounce with-
out such knowledge,) he can ascertain very nearly the amount, as well
as the kind, of intellect and feeling.
Average.—One having an average-sized brain, with activity only
average, will discover only an ordinary amount of intellect ; be inadequate
to any important undertaking ;
yet, in a small sphere, or one that requires
only a mechanical routine of business, may do well : with activity great
or very great, and the organs of the propelling powers and of practical
intellect, large or very large, is capable of doing a fair business, and may
pass for a man of some talent, yet he will not be original nor profound;
will be quick of perception ; have a good practical understanding ; will do
well in his sphere, yet never manifest any traces of greatness, and out
of his sphere, be common-place : with moderate or small activity, will
hardly have common sense.
One having a full-sized brain, with activity great or very great,
the organs of practical intellect and of the propelling powers, large or
O^and tl
* The succeeding descriptions, and also those referred to in "Phrenology Proved,"
&.C., are predicated on the supposition that the brain is full or large in size—the orga-
nization gounil —health fair or good—activity full or great ; and that the faculties have
not been mis-directed.
For the effects of the combined action of the faculties, which constitute by far the
most important portion of phrenology, or, rather, its very essence, and without a know-
ledge of which no correct estimate of character can be formed, the reader is referred
to "Phrenology Proved." &c, the main design of which is to present this hitherto
neslected, but all important, feature of this subject.
Before the terms Average, Full, Large, Very Large, Moderate, Small, and Very
Small, the reader will ulease supply the ellipsis, one having this organ.
PHRENOL OG Y.
Duvnwrs and points out those relations which exist between certain
cunrliliom and rle1~e!o]1nzc11[s of the brain, and f/te 7')l07lifi"Sf(1fl'01lS of [he
mind. For a statement of thc fundamental principles of this science, the
reader is referred either to the cover of this synopsis, or else to pp. 7-36,
of "
Phrenology I'roved," &c. Ve have here only room to allude briefly
to the principal conditions upon which the mental manifestations are
found to depcnd.* These are
mainly as follows.
I. Tut: size or Tut: Brurx, other conditions being equal, is found to be
the measure of the aggregate amount of the mental power; and the rela-
tive size of the several organs of an individual, indicates the proportional
strength and energy of his correspondingjizcullics.
It should, however, be remembered, that the amuun! of one's mental
power, depends even more upon these "of/ter crmrli/ions," such as his
organization, or the vigour of his constitution, the condition of his nutri-
tive organs, the state of his health, his temperament, the amount of
excitement under which his various faculties act, his education, habits,
dict, dec., than upon the size of his brain alone. Accordingly, in conse-
quence of dilferent degrees of health, rest, fatigue, evcitement, &f'., the
manifested qu/wlify or amounl ofa man's mental power, will vary twenty,
forty, and even eighty per cent., whilst the /:ind or
quality will diflbr
little if any. Hence, both in proving phrenoloq, and also in applying its
principles, the province of the phrcnologist is to point out the c/mracfcr
or kind of talents and mental power, rather than their precise amorml;
and yet, if he is informed as to these "other conditions," (audit is not
only his righf to know them, but preposterous in him to pronounce witbv
out such knowledge,) he can ascertain very nearly the amount, as well
as the kind, of intellect and feeling.
Avlzn/ton.-One having an average-sized brain, with activity only
average, will discover only an
ordinary amount of intellect; be inadequate
to any important undertaking; yet, in a small sphere, or one that requires
only a mechanical routine of business, may do well: with activity _great
or
very great, and the organs of the propelling powers and of practical
intellect, large or very large, is capable of doing a fair business, and may
pass for a man of some talent, yet he will not be original nor
profound;
will be quick of perception; have a good practical understanding; will do
well in his .sp/rfrc, yet never manifest any traces of greatness, and out
of his sphere, be common-place: with moderate or small activity, will
hardly have common sense.
`Ur.r..-One having a full~sized brain, with activity great' or
Z}('7'y gr-cal,
and the organs of practical intellect and of the propelling powers, large or
,
* The succm-ding descriptions, and also those referretl to in "
Plirenology Proved,"
&c., are predicated on the supprvsitiorx that the brain is full or large in
size-the or,r:,s»
nization sound-health fair or good--actlvity full or great; and that the facultles have
not been 1/iisalirecterl. _ _ _
For the etil-cts of the rambincrl action of the faculties, which constitute by far the
most important portion of phrennlngy, or, rather, its very essence, and witlinut a know'-
lodge ot' which no correct estimate of character can he
|.D'iI1(`(i, the readeris referred
to
"
Phrennlnuy Proven." Bac., the
iinli|nh_¢ie-siirn
of which is to present this hlthertn
.V
'
im ortunt feature ri t lsS1t]i'6L.
neI'§l=`i'lii;d{tlil1i<?ii|i5 iilveragé, Full, Large, Y'-ry M1"'°, Moderate, Small. and Ver!
swan' me reader will M9555 gupply the elllpsls, one ziwvzng this organ.
* ST50PSIS of pnnENoLOGr,
very large, although lie will not possess greatness of intellect, nor a deep,
•trong mind, will be very clever ; have considerable talent, and that so dis-
tributed that it will show to be more than it really is; is capable of being
a good scholar, doing a fine business, and, wilh advantages and apphca-
fi >n, of distinguishing himself somewhat, yet he is inadequate to a great
undertaking ; cannot sway an extensive influence, nor be really great :
with
activity /«// or average, will do only tolerably well, and manifest only a
common share of talents : with activity moderate or small, will neither
be nor do much worthy of notice: e. 15. 43.
Laiige.—One having a large-sized brain, with activity average, will
possess considerable energy of intellect and feeling, yet seldom manifest it
unless it is brought out by some powerful stimulus, and will be rather
too indolent to exert, especially his intellect : with activity full, will be
endowed with an uncommon amount of the mental power, and be capable
of doing a great deal, yet require considerable to awaken him to that
vigorous effort of mind of which he is capable ; if his powers are not
called out by circumstances, and his organs of practical intellect are only
arrcrage or full, he may pass through life without attracting notice, <y
manifesting more than an ordinary share of talents : but if the perceptive
faculties are strong or very strong, and his natural powers put in vigorous
requisition, he will manifest a vigour and energy of intellect and feeling quite
above mediocrity ; be adequate to undertakings which demand originality
of mind and force of character, yet, after all, be rather indolent (c. 18) : with
activity great or very great, will combine great power of mind with great
activity ; exercise a commanding influence over those minds with which
he comes in contact ; when he enjoys, will enjoy intensely, and when he
suffers, suffer equally so; be susceptible of strong excitement, and, with
the organs of the propelling powers, and of practical intellect, large or
very large, will possess all the mental capabilities for conducting a large
business; for rising to eminence, if not to pre-eminence; and discover
great force of character and power of intellect and feeling: with activity
moderate, when powerfully excited, will evince considerable energy of
intellect and feeling, yet be too indolent and too sluggish to do much ;
lack clearness and force of idea, and intenseness of feeling ; unless lite-
rally driven to it, will not be likely to be much or do much, and yet actu-
ally possess more vigour of mind, and energy of feeling, than he will
manifest; with activiiy 1, or 2, will border upon idiocy.
Vktu Lahok.—One having a very large head, with activity average or
full, on great occasions, or when his powers are thoroughly roused, will
be truly great; but upon ordinary occasions, will seldom manifest' any
remarkable amount of mind or feeling, and perhaps pass through life with
the credit of being a person of good natural abilities and judgments, yet
nothing more: with activity great, strength, and the intellectual organs
toe same, will be a natural genius ; endowed with very superior powers
of mind and vigour of intellect; and, even though deprived of the advan-
tages of education, his natural talents will surmount all obstacles, and make
him truly talented (c. 7) : with activity very great, and the organs of pwc-
Ucal intellect and of the propelling powers large or very large, will possess
the first order of natural abilities; manifest a clearness and force of intel-
lect which u,|| astonish the world, and a power of feeling which will carry
all before bin ;
and, with proper cultivation, enable him to become a bright
star in the firmament of intellectual greatness, upon which coming a-es
4 srxorsrs DF PIIIIEXULUGY,
very large, although he will not
|1o>~=vss_1_f"f'@/Ilfas of intt-ll:'¥, DOI' fl
dfilh
strong nnnd, will be wry t'le'cr; have <'»l1>lt|¢'rnli|etnlvltlv "Hd that so
fm'
tributed that it will sh-ns to bc mm-r than it really is; is capable of
lC.lllg
a
good scholar, doing a fine business, nnd, with advantages and 2PPl'c"'
(im, of distinguishing himself sonicwh:1t,)'l'| llv is lU0ll"fl""t@ t0 a
gfgat
undertaking; cannot sway an extensive influence, nor be really great:
with
uctivityfcll or flccragr, will do only tolerably well, and
mamti-st only 11
common share of talents: with activity modrralc or small, Wlll "Cube"
be nor do much worthy of notice: c. 15. 43-
_ _
_
Luton.-One having a large-sized brain, with activity average, will
pfwscss considerable energy of intellect and ibeling, yet seldom manifest it
unless it is brought out by some powerful stimulus, and will he
rather
too indolent to exert, especially his inffllerl: with activity fit", Wlll be
endowed with an uncommon amount of the mental power, and_be capable
of doing a great dcal,yet rcquirc considerable to awaken h|m to that
vigorous effort of mind of which be is capable; if his powers are IIOK
miled out by circumstances, and his organs of practical intellect
are only
average or full, he may pass through life without attracting not1ec,_o*
manifesting more than an
ordinary sharc of talents: but if the
perceptive
hculties are
strong or very strong, and his natural powers put in vigorous
requisition, he will manifest a vigour and energy ofintelleet and feeling quito
above mediocrity; be adequate to undertakings which demand originality
ti mind and lbrce of character, yet, after all, be rather indolent Cc. IS) : with
activity great or 7.'07:7/ gv-cat, will combine great power of mind with great
adjvity; exercise a commanding influence over those minds with which
he comes in contact; when he enjoys, will enjoy intensely, and when hc
iutlbrs, sutlbr equally so; be susceptible of strong excitement, and, with
the organs of the propelling powers, and of practical intellect, large or
vary large, will possess all the mental capabilities for conducting n.
large
business; for rising to cinincncc, if not to pre-eminence; and discover
great tince of character and power of intellect and feeling: with activity
|tof1z»ruIz', when powerfully excited, will evince considerable energy of
intellect and feeling, yct be too indolent and too sluggish to do much;
lafzk clearness and three of idea, and intcnscncss of feeling; unless lite-
rally driven to it, will not be likely to be much or do much, and yet actu-
ally possess more
vigour of mind, and energy of feeling, than he will
inaniilsst; with activity I, or 2, will border upon idiocy.
'i:n1 Luton.-One having a
very large head, with activity average or
_fir/I, on great occasions, or when his powers are
thoroughly roused, will
be truly great; but upon ordinary occasions, will seldom manifest any
l'*,"Hl§l'lil'?l(P amount of mind or
feeling, and perhaps pass through life with
thc
ercflit of bring a
person of good natural abilities and judgments, yct
votlnng more: with activity great, strength, and the intellectual organs
the sanie, will be a natural genius; endowed with very superior powers
of niind and vigour oi`intellet't; and, even
though deprived of the ads-an-
tages of education, his natural talents will surmount all obstacles, and make
hun truly talcntml (c. 7) : with activity 1.'e{1/_q~reat, and the organs of pi-RC-
tical intcllt-<~t and of the propelling powers large or very large, will possess
the first order of natural abilities; manilbst a elearness and force of intel-
yvill astonish the world, and alpower of
feeling which will carry
_
i
n,_n , and, with
proper cnlti'at1on,cnable hm tn become a bright
star in the lirmantent of intellectual greatness, upon which commg 33.15
WITH TIEIEHBflCES to rilRniSOLOBT PROVED, &C. 5
may gaze with delight and astonishment. His mental enjoyment will be
most exquisite, and his sufferings equally excruciating: c. 5. 6. 40. 41.
MODERATE.-One with a head of only moderate size, combined with
rf nrJiT^fn .°
C/
-n'
/
-y'
and tU ° r
Sans of the propelling powers and
of pract.cal intellect, will possess a tolerable share of intellect, yet appear
to possess much more than he does; with others to plan for and direct
him, will perhaps execute to advantage, yet be unable to do much alone
;
will have a very active mind, and be quick of perception, yet, after all,
have a contracted intellect (c. 10. 26) ;
possess only a small mental calibre
and lack momentum both of mind and character: with activity only average
orjair, will have but a moderate amount of intellect, and even this scanty
allowance will be too sluggish for action, so that he will neither suffer nor
enjoy much :
with activity moderate or small, be an idiot.
Small or very Small.—One with a small or very small head, no
matter what may be the activity of his mind, will be incapable of intellect-
ual effort; of comprehending even easy subjects; or of experiencing much
pain or pleasure ; in short, will be a natural fool : c. 28. 29.
II. The Strength of the System, including the brain, or what is
the same thing, upon the perfection or imperfection of the organization.
Probably no phrenological condition is so necessary for the manifestation
of mind, as a strong, compact constitution, and energetick physical powers.
Even after a violation of the laws of the organization has brought on
disease, a naturally vigorous constitution often retains no small share of its
former elasticity and energy, and imparts the same qualities to the mental
operations (c. 5. 6. 7. 12. 15. 18. 40. 41. 43) ; but, in proportion as this
is defective, weakness and imbecility of mind will ensue.
III. The Degree of Activity.—In judging of the manifestations of the
mind, the activity of the brain is a consideration quite as important as its
size.
^
Whilst size gives power or momentum of intellect and feeling, acti-
vity imparts quickness, intensity, willingness, and even a restless desire, to
act, which go far to produce efficiency of mind, with accompanying effort
and action. Under the head of size, however, the effects of the different
degrees of activity were presented, and need not to be repeated here.
IV. Upon the Excitability.—Sharp, or pointed and prominent
organs, always accompany a nervous and very excitable temperament;
moderate or average sized head ; sharp teeth and pointed bones ; spright-
line.=s of mind and body, &c.
Pointed or Very Pointed.—One with a head uneven, or very un-
ei-en, peculiar in shape, and having a great many protuberances and de-
pressions, or hills and valleys on it, has an equally peculiar, cccentrick,
mi-generis character; presents many strong and weak points of mind and
character; is too much the sport of circumstances; lacks uniformity and
consistency of character, opinion, and conduct; is likely to be driven back
and forth by strong excitements and counter-excitements, and thus to have
a rough voyage through life ; to experience many remarkable incidents,
hair-breadth escapes, &c. ; in short, to do and say many singular things.
Moderate!.! Smooth.—One with a round even head, is likely to
manifest uniformity and consistency of character ; to have good sense and
judgment ; to have few excesses or defuiences ; and, like the poet's good
man, "holds the even tcnour of his way" passing smoothly through life.
V. Upon the Temperament, by which term phrenologists designate
1*
vrn-ix nnnnencna -ru rnaaxotoor raovsn, &c. 5
may gaze with delight and astonishment. His mental enjoyment will be
most
exquisite, and his sufierings equally excruciating: c. 5. 6. 40. 41.
MoDEn.'r1-:.-One with a head of only moderate size, combined with
great or
very great aclivily, and the organs of the propelling powers and
of practical intellect, will possess a tolerable share of intellect, yet appear
to possess much more than he docs; with others to plan for and direct
him, will perhaps execute to
advantage, yet be unable to do much alone;
will have a
very active mind, and be quick of perception, yet, after all,
have a contracted intellect (c. 10. 26) ; possess only a small mental calibre,
and lack momentum both of mind and character: with activity only averqge
Orfair, will have but a moderate amount of intellect, and evcn this scanty
allowance will be too sluggish for action, so that he will neither suffer nor
enjoy much: with activity modcrale or small, he an idiu/.
SM_ALL on VERY SM/ir.r.._One with a small or
very small head, no
matter what may he the activity of his mind, will be incapable of intellect-
ual eftbrt; of eompreliendirrtg even
easy snhiects; or of cxpericncing much
pain or
pleasure; in short, will be a natural fool : c. 28. 29.
II. Tru: STRENGTH or Tm: Srs'rr:|, i-ncluding the hrain, or what is
the same thing, upon the perfection or
fin/my'ictio1z of the o:gn11f:alz'on.
Probably no
phrenological condition is so
necessary for the manifestation
of mind, as a strong, compact constitution, and cncrgctick physical powers.
Even after ti violation of the laws of the organization has brought on
disease, a
naturally vigorous constitution often rclains no small share of its
former elasticity and energy. and imparts the same
qualities to thc mental
operations (cw. 5. 6. 7. 12. 15. 19. 40. 41. 43); hut, in proportion as this
is defective, weakness and imbecility of mind will cnsuc.
III. Tut: Dizomrx or
Ac'r1vr'rY.-[11_judging ofthe manifestations of the
mind, the a¢'l1'z'z'i_y of the brain is a consideration quite as
important as its
size. VVhilst size gives power or momentum of intellect and feeling, acti-
vity imparts quickness, intensity, willingness, and even a restless desire, to
act, which go fur to produce ~flieir»ncyof1ni1|d, with accompanying efiort
and action. Under the head of size, however, the cthwvts of the dilierent
degrees of 1f¢[1`z~[l_y were presented, and need not to be ru
pt :lcd here.
IV. [lox THE
Evc1'r.inrLI'rY.--Sliarp, or pointml and prominent
organs, always accompany a nervous and very excitable
lempcrarncnt;
uioderatv or average sized head; sharp teeth and pointtd bones; spright-
lincss of mind and body, &c.
Poirrnn on Ven: Poixrnn.-One with a head uneven, or
very uu-
e'cn_ peculiar in shape, and having a great many protuberaneos and
_dc-
prcssions, or hills and valleys on it, has an equally pccnliar, ccccntrick,
s11,[-generis character; presents many strong and weak points pf inrnd and
character; is too much the sport of ein-un.st:inccs; locks uniformity and
consistency of character, opinion, and conduct; is likrly to he driven hack
and forth hy strong excitcmcuts and counts»r-exeitmnviits, :url
thus to have
a rough voyage thruuzli life; to CX|Illll('ll(`B many rornarkahle incidents,
hair-breadth escapes, &c.; in short, to do and say many singular things.
Mom;n.n'i;i.v S'uuo'rn.-Une with a round evcn head, is likely to
manifest uniformity and consistency ofcharacter; to
have good
sense
and
judgment; to have few ertccssvs or
dclicicncesi and, like the poets good
man,
"
/10/(Le /bc erm Imam' of his 'llfllf/,li passing smoothly through ht? .
V, Ypon thi: ',l';;31_r.nun.v'1-, ly v,lxi'~h term phrfnologists dcstgnvte
le
STNOPSIS Op PHIIENOLOGT,
the degree of energy with which various classes of the corporal organ*
operate. With some propriety, they describe four temperaments.
1. The Lymphatick, or that in which the various secreting glands are
the most active portion of the system, produces an ease-seeking disposition
of mind and body, and aversion to effort. Hence it tends to lengthen out
rx life, as is evident from its predominating more in young children and ad-
Jy vanced age. Signs : soft and abundant flesh ; slow but steady pulse ;
love
^ of ease ; light hair ; and great size of the abdominal viscera. The author
regards this temperament in a more favourable light than do most other
phrenologists: p. 39. c. 7. 41.
2. The Sanguine, or that in which the arterial portion of the system,
which gives circulation to the various fluids, particularly the blood, predo-
minates in activity, is accompanied with strong feelings, warm passions,
*hd a great amount of ardour, zeal, activity, and warmth of feeling, yet
with less endurance and power. Its predominance indicates a strong con-
stitution ; love of physical pleasure ; and a stirring, business talent :
com-
bined with much of the lymphatick, it is less favourable to the mental
manifestations, and requires much exercise in the open air. Signs : sandy
or auburn hair ; fair skin ; a fresh, florid countenance ; blue eyes ; a strong,
rapid pulse ; warm passions ; a deep and broad chest and shoulders ; a
stoat, well built frame ; &c. : p. 39.
3. The Bilious, or that in which the osseous and muscular portions of
the system predominate in activity, produces great physical strength
;
endurance and power both of body and mind; with great force and energy
of mind and character. Signs : a bony, muscular, athletick frame ; black
hair ; dark skin ; dark eyes ; a strong, steady pulse ; hardness of flesh
;
bones projecting; &c. : p. 39. c. 5. 12. 13. 15. 16.
4. The Nehvous, or that in which the brain and the nerves predomi-
nate in activity, gives clearness of perception ;
quickness of mind and body;
y susceptibility to excitement, with less power and endurance. Signs: light,
^-X.fine, and thin hair; a thin, clear, delicate skin ; smaller frame; head relatively
/ large ; small chest; rapid, but not hard or strong pulse ; &c. : p. 39. c. 10.
The nervous predominant, with a large share of the bilious and san-
guine, combines a great amount of power and endurance of mind and
body, with great activity and excitability ; and is more favourable to intet
lectual pursuits, and vigour of thought and feeling, than perhaps any other
When one of this temperament enjoys, he enjoys intensely, and when ha
suffers, his sufferings are extremely excruciating: c. 6. 11. 15. 40. 43.
The sanguine-bilious is not an unfavourable temperament, nor particu-
larly favourable, but whilst it gives a great amount of mental power, it ic
frequently, though not always, coupled with some manifest deficiency.
The nervo-bilious unites great power with great activity, and, although
it seldom gives great brilliancy, it produces that kind of talent which will
stand the test, and shine in proportion as it is brought into requisition. A
good share of the sanguine added, is more favourable to the manifestations
of mind, and also, of physical power, than probably any other: c. 6. 41.
The bilious, combined with the lymphatick, gives considerable power of
mind, and strength of body, accompanied with so much heaviness and indo-
lence as to be less favourable ;
yet, if one with this temperament acts under
strong excitement, his efforts tell with power upon the object in view : e. ?. £
The nervo-sanguineous, with but little bilious, gives extreme intensity ^~
of action, and perhaps brilliancy of taUnt with vivid feelings and concep-
6 srsorsis op PHRENOLUGY,
the degree of energy with which various classes of the c0rP0r8l Ofgam
operate. With some propriety, they dcscribcfaur temperanients.
1. Tl-11: Lxnrpufrrlcic, or that in which the various scerettflg gland? fre
the most active portion of the system, produces an ease-seeking d1Sv°S1"°"
of mind and body, and aversion to cflbrt. Hence it tends to lengthen
;§t
life, as is evident from its predominating more in young children and -
vanced age. Signs : soft and abundant flesh; slow
but steady p11lSC§
'We
ofease; light hair; and great size of the
abdominal viscera. þÿI`h ¬
author
regards this temperament in a more favourable light than do H103 °th°1'
phrenologists: p. 39. c. 7. 41. _
2. Tzu: Sazmururz, or that in which the arterial portion of the syswm.
which gives circulation to the various _/lttids, particularly the blood, pred0-
lninates in activity, is accompanied vith strong feelings, warm
p2SSl0ll5»
nd a great amount of ardour, zeal, activity, and
vtfarrflth of feeling. yet
with less endurance and power. Its predominance indicates a strong con-
stitution; love of physical pleasure; and a stirring, business talent: com-
bined with much of the lymphatick, it is less favourable t0_ the 7715715112
manifestations, and requires much exercise in the open air. Signs: sandy
or auburn hair; fair skin; a fresh, tlorid countenance; blue eyes; a strong,
rapid pulse; warm passions; a
deep and broad chest and shoulders; a
stout, well built framc; &c.: p. 39.
3, Tai: Brmous, or that in which the osse/Jus and muscular portions of
the system predominate in activity, produces great physical strength ;
endurance and power both of body and mind; with great force and energy
of mind and character. Signs: a
bony, muscular, athlctick frame; black
hair; dark skin; dark eyes; a strong, steady pulse; hardness of flesh;
bones projecting; &e.: p. 39. c. 5. 12. 13. 15. 16.
4. Tim Nsuvous, or that in which the brain and the nerves
predomi-
nate in activity, gives clearness of perception ; quickness of initrd and body;
susceptibility to excitement, with less power and endurance. Signs: light,
fine, and thin hair; a thin, clear, delicate skin ; smaller frame; head relatively
large ; small chest; rapid, but not hard or strong pulse ; &c.: p. 39. c. 10.
The nervous predominant, with a large share of the bilious and san-
guine, combines a great amount of power and endurance of mind and
body, with great activity and excitability ; and is more favourable to intel
lectual pursuits, and vigour of thought and feeling, than perhaps any other
When one of this temperament enjoys, he enjoys intensely, and when he
suffers, his sufferings are
extremely excruciating: c. 6. 11. 15. 40. 43.
The sanguine-bilious is not an unfavourable temperament, nor
particu-
larly favourable, but whilst it gives a great amount of mental power, it ixj
frequently, though not always, coupled with some manifest deficiency.
'1`he ne1'vo-bilious unites great power with great activity, and, although
it seldom gives grcat_bril_liancy, it produces that kind of talent which will
stand the test, and
SillIl9'lIl proportion as it. is brought. into requisition. A
good_share of the
sangume added, is more favourable to the manifestations
of
mind, and also, of physical power, than probably any other: c. 6. 41.
The bilious, combined with the lymphatiek, gives considerable power of
mind, and strength of body, accompanied with so much heaviness and indo-
lencc as
tolbe less
favourable ; yet, if one with this temperament acts under
strong excitement, his efforts
tell with
power upon the object in view: ¢_ 7,
The nervo-sangu1ne0us,_wtth but little bilious, gives extreme intensity
of actlon, and perhaps brilltancy of talant with vivid feelings and c0m.eP_
WITH REFERENCES TO " rHRENOLOGT PROVED," &C. 7
lions, yet, for want of the strength imparted by a bilious temperament, the
mental operations will be flashy, vapid, and too intense to remain long
enough to amount to much, the activity being too great for the strength.
The temperaments are capable of being greatly modified, and their
proportion even radically changed, by the habits, diet, exercise, &c, of the
individual. The hard-working man, who exercises his muscles mainly,
and cultivates but little sensitiveness, either of body or feeling, and the
fashionable belle, who experiences the other extreme of excessive sensibi-
lity, both physical and mental, will serve to illustrate this point.
The author is of opinion, that, in the case of the temperaments, as in
that of the several organs, the nearer equal they are, the better for the
manifestation of both the physical and mental energies, and for long life.
The Propelling on Executive Faculties.—One having combak,
destruct., firmness, self-esteem, hope, &c, large or very large, and an active
brain, has impetus, enterprise, and efficiency, and drives what he take6
hold of: these faculties being to the mind what steam is to the engine, or
wind to the sail. Large in c. 5. 6. 12. 15. 16. 18.40. 41. 42.
Average or Full, is between one with these organs large and small.
Moderate or Small, takes hold of things softly and with mittens on;
lacks efficiency ; and has not enough " go ahead" in him : c. 10. 21. 26.
ANALYSIS AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES.
GENUS I. Aefective Faculties, or Feelings. These occupy
die back and upper portions of the head, where the hair appears, and
originate the feelings, emotions, sentiments, passions, &c. : p. 45.
SPECIES I. Domeslick Propensities, or Family and Social Feelings.
Average or Full, loves and enjoys his family, yet not passionately.
aIiakse or Vert Large, sets every thing by his family; is an affec-
J tionate companion and parent ; very happy with, and miserable without
or away from, his home and family, &e. : c. 5. 10. 11. 12. 14. 15.42.
Moderate or Small, is not well qualified to enjoy or perform family
or social duties and relations; considers other interests as paramount.
1. 2 AMATIVENESS.
—
Reciprocal attachment and love of the sexes.
Average, loves the other sex, and enjoys their society, well : c. 10. 11.
y-~F"uLL, feels much love and tenderness for the opposite sex ; is fond of
^J them, yet, with activity great, has excitability rather than power : p. 59.
Large, is an ardent admirer and tender lover of the person and com-
pany of the other sex ; capable of intense connubial attachments ; feels
strong sexual impulses, desire to marry ; &c. : p. 57. c. 5. 7. 12. 15. 16.
Veut Large, is even passionately fond of the other sex; experiences
a power and activity of sexual love almost uncontrollable: p. 58. c. 14.
Moderate, is rather deficient in sexual love, attentions to the opposite
sex, &c. ; may have ardour, yet less strength, of this passion : p. 59. 4-3.
Small, feels little sexual or connubial love, or desire tc marry : p. 59.
Very Small, seldom or never experiences this feeling: p. 60. c. 29.31.
2. 3. PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.—Parental attachment , love of
one's offspring , fondness for pets, young and tender animals, <fc. : p. 6 1.
Average, loves his own children, yet not fondly, dislikes those of others.
Full, as a parent, is tender, but not indulgent ; fond of his own child-
ren, yet not partial to others; bears little from them : p. 63. c. 8. 11. 15.
Large, feels strong, tender parental love ; is devotedly attached, and very
I J
wrrn ruzrzrmxcxs 'ro "PnnENoLoo1' r>1zovm»,"&r-. 7
tions, yet, for want of the strength imparted by a bilions temperament, the
mental operations will be llashy, vapid, and too intense to remain long
enough to amount to much, the activity being L00 great ilu- the Strength,
The tempcraxnents are
capable of being greatly modified, and their
proportion even
radically changed, by the habits, dict, exercise, &c., of the
individual. 'l'he hard-working man, who exercises his muscles mainly,
and cultivates but little sensitivcness, either of body or feeling, and the
fiishionahlc belle, who experiences the other extreme of execssite sensibi-
lity, both physical and mental, will serve to illustrate this point.
The author is of opinion, that, in the case of the temperaments, as in
that of the several organs, the nearer
equal they are, the better fbi- the
maniflrstation of hoth the physical and mental energies, and for long life.
Tux: PHOPELLING on Exr;cv~riv1: 1"acvL-riizs.-One having combat.,
destruct., firmness, self-esteem, hope, &e., large or
very large, and an active
brain, has impetus, enterprise, and eflicicncy, and drives what he takes
hold of: these faculties being to the mind what steam is to the engine, or
wind to the sail. Large in e. 5. 6. 12. l5. 16. 18.40. 41. 42.
Avi-:H.tc1»; on FULL, is between one with these organs large and small.
IAIODERATE on SMALL, takes hold of things softly and with mittens on ;
lacks cfiiciency; and has not enough
"
go ahead" in him : c. 10. 21. 26.
ANALYSIS AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES.
GENUS I. AFFECTIVE I".wUL'l'xns, on Fmaniyns. These occupy
the back and upper portions of the head, where the hair appears, and
originate the feelings, emotions, sentiments, passions, &c.: p. 45.
SPECIES I. D0mESliC}i7 1'rope11..silf`c.s,or Family and Social Feelings.
Avrzniunz on FULL, loves and enjoys his family, yet not
]msSl'07ullL'1_y.
/T.i¢;E on VERY Laxman, sets every thing by his hnnily; is an affec-
tionate companion and parent; very happy with, and miserable without
-f-~
or
away from, his home and family, &,c.: c. 5. 10. I1.12.14. 15.42.
Ilfionrztnvrn on SMALL, is not well qualified to enjoy or
perform htmily
or social duties and relations; considers other interests as paramount.
1. 2 AMA'I'I'ENESS.-Reciprocal alluc/zmenl and love nf I/ze sexes.
Aviaruce, loves the other sex, and enjoys their society, well: c. 10. ll.
ULL, feels much lnve and tenderness for the opposite sex; is fond of
them, yet, with activity great, has fxciiallilziy rather than power: p. 59.
I..1um_ is an ardent admirer and tender lover of the person and com-
pany of the other sox; capable of intense connubial attachments; feels
strong sexual impulses, desire to marry ; &c. :
p. 57. c. 5. 7. 12. 15. 16.
Vein L.-mos, is even
passionately fond of the other sex; experiences
a
power and activity of sexual love almost uncontrollable: p. 58. c. 14.
Momzxiyriz, is rather deficient in sexual love, attentions to the opposite
sex, &c.; may have ardour, yet less strength, of this passion: p. 59. 43.
Si_LL, feels little sexual or connuliial love, or dcsiie to marry: p. 59.
V,;1,y S,1A;_L, seldnm nr nevtr experiences this feeling: p. 60. c. 29. 31,
2, 3. PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.-Parental attachment; love cf
one'sujI9pri1zg ; frm dncss _fi/rpets, :I/0'll7"l,,.';" and
lender animals, <'§»c.: p. 61.
Avmmmz, loves his own children, yet not fondly, dislikes
those of
others.
"FULL, as a parent, is tender, but not
indulgent; fond of his own child-
ren, yct not partial to others; bears little
from them: p. 63. c. 8. 11. 15.
Limos, feels strong,le11der parental love; is devntcdly attached, and very
8 STNOTSIS OF PHRENOLOGY,
kind, to his own, if not all, children, to pets, &c. : p. 62. c. 12. 16.
Vert Large, is passionately fond of all children, of pets, &c. ;
a gene-
ral favourite with them; very indulgent and playful; ld "''zes n' s
° '„
children ; is liable to over-indulge them : p. 63. c. 10. 14. -JO. **'**' *"\
Moderate, loves his own children some, yet bears little Iron, uiem ,
dislikes those that arc young, or not his, or troublesome : p. o4.
Small, feels little interest in even his own children, much less in tnose
of others ; is liable to treat them unkindly : p. 64. c. 26.
Vert Small, has no parental love ; hates all children : p. 64. c. <SV.
3. 4.* ADHESIVENESS.—Friendship; social feeling , love oj society.
Average, is quite friendly, yet will not sacrifice much for friends.
Full, is highly social, yet not remarkably warm-hearted : p. 66. c. 16.
/Large, is eminently social, an ardent, sincere friend; enjoys friendly
<£? society extremely; forms strong, if not hasty, attachments : p. 65. ell.
Vert Large, loves friends with indescribable tenderness and strength
of feeling ; will sacrifice almost every thing upon the altar of friend-
ship ; with amat. full or large, is susceptible of the most devoted con-
nubial love; falls in love easily : p. 65. c. 10. 14. 20. 21. 42.
Moderate, loves friends some, yet self more ;
quits friends often : p. 67.
Small, is unsocial, cold-hearted, likes and is liked by few or none : p. 67,
Vert Small, is a stranger to friendly social feeling: p. 67. c. 24. 32.
4. 5. INHABITIVENESS.—Love of home as such,- attachment to the
place where one has lived ; unwillingness to change it ,- patriotism.
Average, forms some, though not strong, local attachments : c. 8. 12.
^ Full, loves home well, yet docs not grieve much on leaving it: p. 69.
** Large, soon becomes strongly attached to the place in which he lives ;
loves home and country dearly ; leaves them reluctantly ; is unhappy
without a home of his own : p. 68. 0. 12. 14. 15. 16. 21.
Vert Large, regards home as the dearest, sweetest spot on earth ; feels
homesick when away ; dislikes changing residences; is pre-eminently
patriotic ; thinks of his native place with intense interest : p. 68. c. 5.
Mod Kit ate, has some, but no great, regard for home as such : p. 69. c. 26.
Small or Vert Small, forms few local attachments; cares little
where he is ; makes any place home ; leaves and changes residences
without regret: p. 69. * (The number according to Spurzheim.)
5. CONCENTRATIVENESS.— Unity and continuity of thought and
feeling ; power of entire and concentrated application to one thing.
"Average, possesses this power to some, though to no great, extent.
/j Full, is disposed to attend to but one thing at once, yet can turn ra
pidly from thing to thing; is neither disconnected nor prolix : p. 71. c. 15
Large, is able and inclined to apply his mind to one, and but one, sub-
ject for the time being, till it is finished ; changes his mental operations >
with difficulty ; is often prolix : p. 72. c. 12. 42.
Vert Large, places his mind upon subjects slowly ; cannot leave them
unfinished, nor attend to but one thing at once ; is very tedious •
has
great application, yet lacks intensity and point : p. 70.
Moderate, loves and indulges variety and change of thought, feeling,
occupation, &c. ; is not confused by them ; rather lacks application ; has
intensity, but not unity, of the mental action : p. 71. c. 10.
Small, craves novelty and variety ; has little application ; thinks and
feels intensely, yet not long on any thing, jumps rapidly from premisa
to conclusion ; fails to connect and carry out his ideas &c. : p. 71. c. 14.
J
8 SYNOPSIS or rnnzsonoczry
kind, to his own, if not all, children, to
pets] &¢-3 62' °'
12:
l6'
Vnnr I./mor-:, is passiurzuIr/_1/ tbnd of all children, Ol
P°l5» 'YU '
if gem"
ral favourite with them; very indulgent and playful? ldllllms
hlsqolyr?
children ; is liable to over-indulge them: p. 63. c. 10.
14. 20. 21. 2...
~:
Momzrurrn, loves his own ehildren some, yet bears little from them .,
dislikes those that are young, or not his, or troublesome I
P- 64;
Sm_u.r., feels little interest in cvcn his own ollilllfmh ml-'Ch less ln those
of others; is liable to treat them unkindlyz p. 611. C. 26-
Vnnr SALALI., has no parental love; hates all
children : p. 611. c.
30.
3. 4."ADHESl'ENESS.-I"ricna'shi]J ; social fouling; 101.-e_qfsoezcfy.
Avraiuon, is quite friendly, yet will not sacrifce much fOr fl'l0l"|llS-
Fun., is highly social, yet not rrmarknb/_y warm-hearted :
_p. 66._c. 16.
L.nm:, is eminently social, an ardent, sincere friend; enjoys friendly
50¢i¢[y Cxtremgly; fgrmg gtrong, if not llzlsty, Z1lIt1Cl`1IllGTl[S2 P. 65. C. l1»
Vx-:nv L.ur;1-1, loves friends with 11l(l('5CIlli1ll[) tenderness and
strength
of feeling; will sacrifice almost every thing upon the altar of friend-
ship; with amat. full or large, is susceptible of the most devoted con-
nubial love; falls in lore easily: p. 65. c. 10. 14. 20. 21. 42.
Monrznxrr-:, loves friends some, yet svlf more; quits friends often: p. 07.
SMALL, is unsoeial, cold-hearted, likes and is lil-:ed by few or none: p. 67.
Vmtv Sn/im., is a stranger to friendly social feeling: p. 67. e. 24. 32.
4. 5. INHA13I'1`IVENESS.-Lm-6 /Lf /iomcfzs such ; allnehment io fha
place where one has livzd ,~ uvzwillizigmrss /0 change if ; przlriotisnz.
Avian tot, forms some, though not strong. local attachments: c. S. 12.
'ji Fvu., loves home well, yct does not grieve much on leaving it: p. 69.
L,nm~:, soon becomes sirongly attached to the place in which he lives ;
loves home and country dearly; lcaws them reluctantly; is unhappy
without a home of his own: p. GH. G. 12. 14. 15. 16. 21.
Vmw 1.An<:E, regards /mmf* as the dearest, sweetest spot on earth; feels
homesick when away; dislikes changing; residences; is þÿ])7`(T- ¬l7lf1l.C71fL!/
patriotic; thinks of his native plane with intense interest: p. 69. c. 5.
1'lom-:nA'ri-:, has some, but no great, regard for home as such .-
p. 611. c. 26.
SMALL on Vmur SMALL, forms few local attachments; cares little
where he is; makes any place home; leaves and ehanges residences
without regret: p. 69.
*
(The number accorrliiig to
Spurzlieim.)
5. CONUEN'I`RA'I`IVENESS.-UnH_l/ and co/zliziuily if lhynghg and
fre'l1'1zg ,~ power of en/ire and cnncmlmlczl u//pliculimz fu one
thing.
vnnmrz, possesses this power to some, though to no fzrcrat, extent.
|
Firm., is disposed to attend to hut one thing at once, vet can turn fa
pidly from thing to thing; is neither disconnected nor prolix: p. '71, Q. 15
Lutcia, is able and inclined to apply his mind to one, and but one' sup.
ject for the time being, till it is linished ; changes his mental operations
with difliculty; is often prolix: p. 12. c. 12. /12.
Vxznv L/1u;n, places lns nnnd upon subjects slowly; cannot leave them
untimshetl, nor attend to hut one tlnng at once; is
'very tedious- has
great application, yet lacks in/uzf~i/_y and ]1tJi/If .°
p. 70,
1
2;;»§r:11;t'r1:, loves_and indulgcs 1-m-iffy and change of
thought, feeling,
patron, &c. , is not confused by them; rather lacks application '
has
inlu1xil_y,11ut not unify, of the mental action : p. 71. c. 16.
l
Sn.Lr., craves
novelty and variety; has little application; thinks and
feels intensely, ygt not long on
any thing, _pnnpg rapidly from Fmmisa
to conclusion ; fails to connect and carry ou! his ideas &¢_ 2 11.71. 0.14.
WITH REFERENCES TO "PHRENOLOGY PROVED," &C. 9
Vert Small, is restless; satisfied only by constant succession : p. 72.
Jhls faculty is sui generis, and affects both feeling and intellect.
SPECIES II. Selfish Propensities. These provide for the various
animal wants ;
have reference to the necessities, desires, and gratifications
J^of
their possessor ;
and terminate upon his sensual interests and wants.
Large or Very Large, has strong animal desires ; is strongly tempted
_ to gratify them ; prone to be selfish, unless the moral sentiments are still
stronger ; and will take good care of number one : c. 8. 12. 14. 15. 16. 20.
Moderate or Small, is not selfish enough ; easily trode upon ; needs
to have some one to take care of him ; and cannot give himself up to
low-lived, sensual pleasures: c. 10. 11. 12. 41.
A. ViTATIVENESS.
—
Love of existence as such, dread ofannihilation.
Average, is attached to life, and fears death, yet not a great deal.
Full, desires life, but not eagerly, from love of it and of pleasure : p. 74.
Large, loves, and clings tenaciously to, existence, for its own sake,-
craves immortality and dreads annihilation, even though miserable : p. 74.
Very Large, however wretched, shrinks from, and shuddersat the thought
of, dying and being dead ; feels that he cannot give up existence : p. 74.
Moderate, loves life, yet is not very anxious about living : p. 74.
6mall or Very Small, heeds not life or death, existence or annihilation.
6. 6. COMBATIVENESS.—Feeling of resistance, defence, opposition ,-
boldness, willingness to encounter ,- courage, resentment, spirit : p. 75.
Average, is pacifick, but, when driven to it, defends his rights boldly
voids collision, strife, &c, yet, once excited, is quite forcible.
Full, seldom either courts or shrinks from opposition; when roused, is
. quite energetick ; may be quick tempered, yet is not contentious : p. 78.
/ Large, is resolute and courageous ; spirited and efficient as an oppo-
kL- nent ;
quick and intrepid in resistance ; loves debate ; boldly meets, if
he does not court, opposition: p. 75. c. 5. 15. 8. 16.
Very Large, is powerful in opposition ;
prone to dispute, attack, &c.
;
contrary; has violent temper ;
governs it with difficulty : p. 77. c. 12. 14.
Moderate, avoids collision; is rather pacifick and inefficient: p. 78.
Small, has feeble resistance, temper, force, &c. ; is cowardly: p. 79.
Very Small, withstands nothing ; is chickenhearted ; an arrant coward.
7. l. DESTRUCTIVENESS. — Executivencss , indignation,- force,-
severity ; sternness ,- a destroying, pain-causing disposition .-
p. 82
Average, has not really deficient, yet none too much, indignation. 19.
Full, can, but is loath to, cause or witness pain or death ; has sufficient
severity, yet requires considerable to call it out : p. 83. c. 5. 11.
/ Large, when excited, feels deep-toned indignation ; is forcible, and dis-
(/ posed to subdue or destroy the cause of his displeasure : p. 82. c. 5. 89.
Very Large, when provoked, is vindictive, cruel, disposed to hurt, take
revenge, &c. ; bitter and implacable as an enemy; very forcible: p. 83.
c. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 24. 25. 26. 32. 33. 35. 42.
Moderate, is mild ; not severe nor destructive enough ; when angry,
lacks power ; can hardly cause or witness pain or death : p. 84. c. 10. 41.
Small, would hardly hurt one if he could, or could if he would ; has
so feeble anger that it is derided more than feared : p. 84. c. 21. 27.
Very Small, is unable to cause, witness, or endure pain or death : c. 48.
8 * ALTMENTIVENESS.
—
Appetite for sustenance ,- cause of hunger.
Average, enjoys food well, but not very well ; hence is particular : c. 41.
Full, ha? a good aprictite, yet can govern it well ; is not greedy: p.87.7.
wrm nsssnsrrces 'ro "pnnraxonoev rnovnn," &c. 9
v*f"1 SMALL, is þÿf0§l1 ¬SS;
satisfied only by conslan! succession .-
p. 72.
F1115 fa°"h)' 15 Sl"
é,'5W7'lS, and aiiiects both feelin" and intellect.
SPEQIES H. SHLFISH PIlUl'ENS1Tll£S. These pro£ide for the various
animal wants ; have reference to the necessities, desires, and gratilications
,of their possessor; and terminate upon his sensual interests and wants.
Lanes on Venv LARGE, has strong animal desircs; is strongly tempted
`
to gratify them; prone to beselfish, unless the moral sentiments are still
stronger; and will take good care of number one: c. 8. 12. 14. 15. 16. 20.
hfIODEl`lATl'l on SMALL, is not selfish enough ; easily trode upon; needs
to have some one to take care of him; and cannot give himself up to
low-lived, sensual pleasures: c. 10. 11. 12. 41.
A. VITATIVENESS.-Lore ofexisience AS seen, dread ofanni/tilaiion.
Avenues, is attached to life, and fears death, yet not a great deal.
FULL, desires life, but not eagerly, from love of it and of pleasure: p. 74.
LARGE, loves, and clings tenaciously to, existence, for ils own sake,-
craves
immortality and dreads annihilation, even
though miserable : p. 74.
VERY L AnGx»:,however wretched,shrinks from,and shudders at the thought
US dying and being dead; feels that he cannot give up existence: p. 74.
IIODERATE, loves life, yet is not very anxious about living: p. 74.
SxALL on Ven! SMALL, heeds not life or death, existence or annihilation.
6. 6
COMBATIVENESS.-Feeling of resislance, dljkftce, oppusiliun;
boldness, willingness lo encounter ; courage, resera/me/zi, spirit .~
p. 75.
A'snAG}:, is pacifick, but, when driven to it, defends his rights boldlg'
lvoids collision, strife, &c., yet, once excited, is quite forcible.
FULL, seldom either courts or shrinks from opposition; when roused, is
quite energetick; may be quick tempered, yet is not contentious: p. 78.
LARGE, is resolute and courageous; spirited and efiicient as an oppo~
nent; quick and intrepid in resistance; loves debate; boldly meets, if
he does not court, opposition: p. 75. c. 5. 15. 8. 16.
Vsnv I.Anm:, is powerful in opposition; prone to dispute, attack, &c.;
contrary; has violenttemper; governs it with dilliculty : p. 77. c. 12. 14.
h10DI:2llA'[`E, avoids collision; is rather pacifick and ine11i<-iont: p. 78.
SHALL, has feeble resistance, temper, force, &c.; is cowardly: p. 79.
Vznv SMALL, witlistands nothing; is chickenlnmrted; an arrant coward.
7. 1. DESTRUCTIVENESS. -
E.z:eculivenc.vs,- indignation ; force;
sevcrily ; siernnrss ; a
dc.v!ro_z,/ing, pain-causing dispnsilion .-
p. 82
AVERAGE, has not really tie/icienl, yet none too much, indignation. 19.
FULL, can, but is loath to, cause or witness pain or death ; has suflicicnt
severity, yet requires considerable to call it out: p. 83. c. 5. 11.
Iatncic, when excited, feels deep-toned indignation; is forcible, and dis-
posed to subdue or destroy the cause of his displeasure: p. 82. c. 5. 80.
Vsuv LAnGr;, when provoked, is vindictive, cruel, disposed to hurt, take
revenge, &c.; hitter and iluplacable as an enemy; very forcible: p. S3.
c. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 24. 25. 25. 32. 33. 35. 42.
Mnm:n4'rs, is mild; not severe nor destructive enough; when angy,
lacks power; can hardly cause or witness pain or death :
p. 84. <'. 10. 41.
SMALL, would hardly hurt one if he could, or could if he would; has
so feeble anger that it is derided more than tbarcd: p. 84. c. 21. 27.
Van! Sr.r.L, is unable to cause, witness, or endure pain or death : c. 48.
B "
ALll1EN'I'IVENESS.--Appetite_/brsuslcnwzre; cause
of hunger.
Avnnsora, enjoys food well, but not very well ;
hm-nec is particular: c. 41.
Ij`ur.1., has a good appetite, vet can govern it well : is not greedy: p.S7,7.
10 SYNorsis or furf.xologt,
/f Large, has an excellent appetite ; a hearty relish for food, drink, Ac.
:
*f enjoys them much ; is a good liver ; not dainty : p. 86. c. 5. 12. 14-
Vert Large, sets too much by the indulgence of his palate ;
eats with
the keenest appetite ;
perhaps " makes a god of his belly :" p. 87. c 18.
Moderate, has not a good, nor very poor, but rather poor, appetite : p. 87.
Small or Vert Small, is dainty', mincing, particular about food ;
eats
with little relish ; hardly cares when he eats, or whether at all : p. 8&
9. a ACQUISITIVENESS.—Love of acquiring and possessing pho-
ftrtt as such ; desire to save, lay up, S(C; innate feeling of mine and
thine, of a right to possess and dispose of things : p. 89.
Average, loves money, but not greatly ; can make it, but spends freely.
J
-Full, sets by property, both for itself, and what it procures, yet is not
penurious ; is industrious and saving, yet supplies his wants : p. 93.
Large, has a strong desire to acquire property ; is frugal ; saving of
"^money ; close and particular in his dealings ; devoted to money-making,
trading, &c. ;
generally gets the value of his money: p. 89. c. 5. 18.
Vert Large, makes money his idol ; grudges it; is tempted to get it
dishonestly ;
penurious ; sordid ; covetous ; &c. : p. 92. c. 8. 9. 20. 26.
Moderate, finds it more difficult to keep than make money ; desires it
more to supply wants than lay up ; is hardly saving enough : p. 94. c. 7. 14.
Sjfall, will generally spend what money he can get injudiciously, if not
profusely ; lays up little ; disregards the prices of things : p. 95. c. 27. 41.
Vert S mail, cannot know nor be taught the value or use of money : p. 95.
10. 7. SECRETIVENESS.—Desire and ability to secrete, conceal, <$•&.
Average, is not artful nor very frank ; is generally open ; can conceal.
-4 Full, can keep to himself what he wishes to, yet is not cunning : p. 99.
v^# Large, seldom discloses his plans, opinions, &c. ; is hard to be found
out ; reserved ; non-committal : p. 96. c. 5. 40.
Vert Large, seldom appears what he is, or says what he means ; often
equivocates and deceives; is mysterious, dark, cunning, artful, given to
double-dealing, eye-service, &c. : p. 98. c. 8. 9. 12. 13. k5. 16. 17, 20.
25. 26. 22. 30. 31. 33. 34. 36. 37. 38.
Moderate, is quite candid and open-hearted; loves truth; dislikes
concealment, underhand measures, &c. ; seldom employs them :
p. 100.
Small, speaks out just what he thinks ; acts as he feels ; does not wish
to learn or tell the secrets of others, yet freely tells his own ; is too plain-
spoken and candid : p. 101. c. 21. 27. 41.
Vert Small, keeps nothing back; has a transparent heart: p. 101.
GENUS III. Human, Moral, and Religious Sentiments : 102.
SPECIES I. Selfish Sentiments. In their character and objects, these
faculties partake more of the human, and less of the animal, than do the
selfish propensities, and although they terminate upon self, yet they hav
iio inconsiderable influence upon the moral character : p. 47. 103. c. 2
•^ Average or Full, has a respectable, though not great, regard for hi
t/ diaracter, and desire to do something worthy of himself'.-
c. 21. 10. 11
Large on Vert Large, thinks much of and about himself ; has a ^reai
amount of character of some kind: p. 51. c. 5. 6. 12. 14. 15 16 18° 40
Moderate, Small, or Vert Small, has too little' pride and' weight
of character and ambition to give manliness and efficiencv •
c 20 26
'
11 10. CAUTIOUSNESS._C«re/„/nm,- provision against d'an^r
Average, has some caution, yet hardly enough for success : c 41
Full, has prudence and forethought, yet not too much: p. 105. c. 40
10 snrorsrs or rnnsxomonr,
Imnox, has an excellent appetite; a
hearty relish fOr food. f-lfinkf &C»¥
enjoys them much; is a good liver; not dainty: p. _86. r. 5. 12. 14.
U
l
`
d l ence oflns palate* cats Wltlt
V1-zrtx' Lance, sets too much by tie in u g
'
_
'
Z,
1
'
the kcenest appetite; perhaps "makes u gud of Ins belly: p. _97. C. 13-
h'{0DERA'l'E, has not 0. good, nor very poor, 1l.1lTllfht'7' [100f» 0I'P"m": P' 87°
Sana. nn Vrznr Suiter., is dainty, rnincing, particular about
food
;
ge;-ts
with little relish; hardly carcs when he eats, or whether at al
. p
& ACQUIS1'1`IVENESS.-Love of acquiring I`ll1(l_f10SS(8Sl7I_Lf eno-
ngnry ,ts Sven; df-sire fu saz'rf,Ir1],/ up, ri-c.; 1'n_natefP'zl1ng of mm: ann
Turns, of a
rght tn possess and dtkpose of I/mtg-Q P- S9-
Avrsnaos, loves money, but not greatly ; can
make lt, but spends freely.
~fFur.r., sets by property, lnoth for itself, and what
1t_procures, yet rs not
pcnurious; is industrious and saving, yet supplies his wants: p. 93.
Lance, has a strong desire to acquire property; is frugal; saving of
9.
"'
money; close and particular in his
dealings; devoted to money-making,
trading, &c.; generally gets the value of his money: p. 89. c. 5. IS.
Vr:n¥ L.uu;r»:, makes money his idol; grudges it; is tempted to get it
lishonestly; penurious; sordid; covctous; &c.: p. 92. c. S. 9. 20. 26.
Monx:1u'r1:, finds it more difficult to keep than make money; desires it
more to supply wants than lay up; is hardly saving enough: p. 94. c. 7.14.
S.uu., vill generally spend what money he can get injudiciously, if not
profusely ; lays up little; disregards the prices of things: p. 95. c. 27. 41.
'mu' Swr.n.r., cannot know norbe taught the value or use of money: p. 95.
10. 7. SECR1;}'1`1VENESS.-Desire and ability to secrete, conceal, ch;
,
Aysnaoz, is not artful nor very frank ; is generally open; can conceal.
FULL, can
ket-p to himself what he wishes to, yet is not cunning: p. 99.
Lanorz, seldom dis:-loses his plans, opinions, &c.; is hard to be found
wt; reserved; non-committal: p. 96. c. 5.40.
Van? Inuwn, seldom appears what he is, or
says what he means; often
equivoeates and deceivcs; is mysterious, dark, cunning, artful, given to
double-dealing, eyc~servicc, &c.: p. 98. c. S. 9. 12. 13. 15. 16. 17, 20.
25. 26. 22. 30. 31. 33. 34. 35. 37. 38.
Mont-:n.rrr;, is quite candid and open~hearted; loves truth; dislikes
concealment, underhand measures, &c.; seldom employs them: p. 100.
S.ur.r., speaks out just what he thinks; acts as he feels; does not wish
to learn or wll the secrets of others, yet freely tells his own ; is too plain-
spoken and candid: p. 101. c. 21. 27. 41.
Vnnv Sn.r.r., keeps nothing back; has a
transparent heart: p. 101.
GENITSIII- HUMAN, Mortar., .urn Rr-;r.ro1oI's Sx:NTrmmVrs: 102.
SPECIES I. Sr:r.r~'rsu SENTINIENTS. In their character and objects these
facilities partake more ofthe human, and less ofthe animal, than ilu the
Selfish þÿ[)7'0])£'1lSI'll. ¬S,and although they terminate upon sem yet they hav
no lneonsiderahle influence upon the moral character :
p. 47. 103, e, 2
Avrznanr: on 1"r:r.r., has a
respectable, though not great, regard for hi
character, and desire to do something worthy of ltimseyh- c. 21. 10. 11
Lanai: on
VEllYLA11.G`E, thinks much of and about himself~ has a greg;
amount of character of some kind: p. 51. c. 5. 6. 12. 14. 151 16 13 40
MUUETU-TH, S)1AL1.,1|.R Vern Sl[A`L'., has too little pride and. weigh;
of
character and ambition to give manlincss and efficiency: c. 20. 26
1
1l~ 10- UALTIOT-`Sl
ESS.-Car¢¢Incss ,- provision against dan »,;,~
AVE1l.GE, has some caution, yet hardlv enough for success. C de"
`
FULL, has prudence and forethought. yet not too much: .10h. c..40
WITH REFERENCE* no PHRENOLOGY PROVED," &C. 11
/j Large, is always watchful ; on the look-out ; careful ; anxioua ; solici-
*Y tous ; provident against real and imaginary danger, &c: p. 104. c. 5. 6. 15.
Vert Large, hesitates too much ; suffers greatly from groundless fears
;
is timid, easily frightened, &c. : p. 105. c. 12. 13. 16. 17. 21. 26. 27. 31.
Moderate, is rather imprudent, hence unlucky ; liable to misfortunes
caused by carelessness ; plans too imperfectly for action : p. 106.
Small, acts impromptu ; disregards consequences ; fears nothing ; is
imprudent; luckless; often in hot water: p. 106.
Vert Small, is reckless, destitute of fear and forethought: p. 107.
Circumspection. Propriety , discreetness of expression and conduct.
Average or Full, has some, though none too much, discretion and
propriety of expression and conduct; sometimes speaks inconsiderately.
Large or Vert Large, weighs well what he says and does ; has a
nice sense of propriety ; thinks twice before he speaks once.
Moderate or Small, does and says indiscreet things : unascertained,
12. 11. APPROBATiVENESS.—Sense of honour, regard for charac-
ter ; ambition,- love of popularity, fame, distinction, <5fC: p. 107.
yyAvERAGE, enjoys approbation, yet will not sacrifice much to obtain it.
° f Full, desires and seeks popularity, and feels censure, yet will neither
deny nor trouble himself much to secure or avoid either: p. 110.
Large, sets every thing by character, honour, &c. ; is keenly alive to
(ftie frowns and smiles of publick opinion, praise, &c. ; tries to show off
to good advantage; is affable, ambitious, apt to praise himself: p. 108.
Vert Large, regards his honour and character as the apple of his eye ;
is even morbidly sensitive to praise and censure ; over fond of show,
fashion, praise, style, &c. ; extremely polite, ceremonious, &c. : p. 1 10.
Moderate, feels reproach some, yet is little affected by popularity or
unpopularity ; may gather the flowers of applause that are strewed in
his path, yet will not deviate from it to collect them : p. 112.
Small, cares little for popular frowns or favours ; feels little shame
;
disregards and despises fashions, etiquette, &c. ; is not polite: p. 112.
Vert Small, cares nothing for popular favour or censure.
13. 12. Self-esteem. Self-respect,- high-toned, manly feeling ,- innate
love of personal liberty, independent, <$-c.,- pride of character : p. 113.
Average, respects himself, yet is not haughty : c. 21. 41.
'/ Full, has much self-respect; pride of character; independence: p. 116.
A_ Larce, is high-minded, independent, self-confident, dignified, his own
i/y master; aspires to be and do something worthy of himself; assumes
responsibilities; does few little things : p. 114. c. 5. 6.
Vert Large, has unbounded self-confidence; endures no restraint;
takes no advice; is rather haughty, imperious, &c; p. 1 16. c. 8. 14. 15. 16.
Moderate, has some self-respect, and manly feeling, yet too little to
give ease, dignity, weight of character, &c. ; is too trifling : p. 1 16. c. 26
Small, lets himself down ; says and does trifling things ; associates
with inferiors ; is not looked up to ; lacks independence : p. 117. c. 11.
Vert Small, is servile, low-minded : destitute of self-respect : p. 117.
14. 15. FIRMNESS.
—
Decision, stability, fixedness of character, <fc. 119.
Average, has some decision, yet too little for general success : c. 10. 20
Full, has perseverance enough for ordinary occasions, yet too little for
grea* enterprises ; is neither fickle nor stubborn : p. 121. c. 21. 27.
Large, may be fully relied on ; is set in his own way ; hard to be con-
vinced or changed at all ; holds on loo* and hard : p. 119. c. 6.
wrrn Rxrsnrxcv 'su PHRENOLOGY rnovxD," &c. 11
LARGE, IS
_always watchful; on_ the
look-out; careful; anxious; solici-
1515§p'0V1dentagainstrcalandimaginarydanger,&c.:p.104.c.5.6.15.
§ p'0V1dent against rcal and imaginary danger, &c.: p. 104. c. 5. 6. 15.
. Ert¥_LaRc_i;, hesitates too much; suffers greatly from groundless fears;
15
flm1d»¢0S1|y fr1ghtened,&c.: p. 105. C. 12. 13. 16. 17. 21. 26.27. 31.
MODERATE, is rather imprudent, hence unlucky; liable to misfortunes
caused by carelessness; plans too
imperfectly for action :
p. 106.
§M.iLL, acts impromptu; disregards consequences; fears nothing; is
xmprudent; luckless; often in hot water: p. 106.
Ven! Snr au., is reckless, destitute of fear and forethought: p. 107.
Crnctnrsrscrruw. Propriefvi/ ; disereetncss of expression and conduct.
AVERAGE on FULL, has some, though none too much, discretion and
propriety of expression and conduct; sometimes speaks inconsiderately.
LARGE on VERY Linmz, weighs well what he says and does; has a.
nice sense of propriety; thinks twice before he speaks once.
LIODERATE on Sxmnr., does and says indiscreet things: unascertained.
12. 11. APPROBATIVENESS.-Sense of lionour, regard for chame-
,- ambition ,- love ofpopularily, fame, distillation, dire. .-
p. 107.
AVERAGE, enjoys approbation, yet will not
sacrifice much to obtain it.
FULL, desires and seeks popularity, and feels censure, yct will neither
deny nor trouble himself much to secure or avoid either: p. 110.
LARGE, sets every thing by elzarrrcter, honour, &c.; is keenly alive to
the frowns and smiles of publick opinion, praise, &e.; tries to show off
to good advantage; is aflhble, ambitious, apt to praise himself: p. 108.
Vsnr Lance, regards his honour and cliaracler as the apple of his eye ;
is even
morbidly sensitive to praise and censure; over fond of show,
fashion, praise, style, &c.; extremely polite, ceremonious, &c.: p. 110.
Moncnyrr-:, feels reproach some, yet is litlle affected by popularity or
unpopularity; may gather the Howers of applause that are strewed in
his path, yct will not deviate from it to collect them: p. 112.
SMALL, cares little for popular frowns or favours; feels little shame;
disregards and dcspises fashions, etiquette, &c.; is not polite: p. 112.
VERY SMALL, cares nothing for popular favour or censure.
13. 12. SELF-ESTEEM. Se¢respeet; high-tone¢L manly feeling; innate
love of personal liberty, inriependent, ¢»e.,- pride of character :
p. 113.
AVERAGE, respects himself, yct is not haughty: c. 21. 41.
FULL, has much self-respect; pride of character; independence: p. 116.
,_
Lancs, is high-minded, independent, selflconfident, dignified, his own
master; aspires to be and do something worthy of himself; assumes
responsibilities; does few litlk things: p. 114. c. 5. 6.
Vsnr LARGE, has unbounded selllconiidence; endures no restraint;
takes no advice; is rather haughty, imperious, &c.; p. 116. c.S. 14. 15. 16.
Monsnum, has some selilrcspect, and manly feeling, yct too little to
give ease, dignity, weight of character, &.c.; is too
trifling: p. 116.
c_. 26
SMALL, lets himself down; says and does tri/ling things; associates
with inferiors; is not looked up to; lacks independence :
p. 117. c. 11.
VERY SMALL, is servile, low-minded : destitute of self-respect: p. 117.
14, 15. FIRlINESS.-Decision, stability/,_/'i;ce1lness of character, <§-e. 119.
AVERAGE, has some decision, yct too little for general success:
c. 10. 20
FULL, has perseverance enough for ordinary occasions, yet too little for
great enterprises; is neither tickle
norstuhhorn :
p. 121. c. 21. 27.
LARGE, may he fully relied on ; is set ln his own way; hard to be 0011*
vinced or changed at all ; holds on long and hard :
p. 119. c. 6.
It STNOPSIS OF rHRENOLOOT,
Very Labs*, is wilful ; and so tenacious and unchangeable of opi-
nion, purpose, &c, that he seldom gives up any thing : p. IM. c. o. b.
\ 12. 14. 15. 16. 17. ,. ., ,. ,,„
A Moderate, gives over too soon ; changes too often and too easily ,
thus
0\ fails to effect what greater firmness would do : p. 122. c. 11. ^o.
^
Small on Veht Small, lacks perseverance; is too changeable and
vacillating to effect much, or be relied upon : p. 122.
SPECIES II. Moiial axd Rklioious Sentiments. These renciet
man a moral, accountable, and religious being; humanize, adorn a.W
elevate his nature ; connect him with the moral government of God
,
create the higher and nobler sentiments of our nature ; and are the origit
of goodness, virtue, moral principle and purity, &c. : p. 48. 123. c. 2.
Average or Full, has moral feeling and principle, yet too little U
/ withstand large or very large propensities : c. 8. 15. 21.
^7Large or Very Large, is morally inclined; sentimental; thinks and
feels much on moral and religious subjects, &c: p. 52. c. 5. 6. 7. 11. 41.
Moderate, Small, or Vert Small, has not strong moral or religious
feelings; lets his larger faculties rule him : p. 52. c. 14. 17. 20. 26.42.
15. 16. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.—Innate feeling of duty, accounta-
bility, justice, right, fyc. ,- moral principle ,- love of truth : p. 124.
Averace, has right intentions, but their influence is limited : c. 15.
/-Full, strives to do right, yet sometimes yields to temptation ; resists
\1 besetting sins, but may be overcome, and then feels remorse : p. 130. c. 27.
Large, is honest ; fai'Mul ; upright at heart ; moral in feeling ; grate-
ful ;
penitent ; means wed ; consults duty before expediency ; loves and
means to speak the truth; cannot tolerate wrong: p. 126. c. 13. 25. 11.
Vert Large, is scrupulously exact in matters of right ; perfectly honest
in motive ; always condemning self and repenting ; very forgiving, con-
scientious, &c. ; makes duty every thing, expediency nothing: p. 129.
Moderate, has considerable regard for duty mfeeling, but less in prac-
tice ;
justifies himself; is not very penitent, grateful, or forgiving ; often
temporizes with principle ; sometimes lets interest rule duty : p. 131»
Small, has few conscientious scruples ; little penitence, gratitude, re-
gard for moral principle, justice, duty, &c. : p. 132. c. 20. 16. 17. 42.
Vert Small, neither regards nor feels the claims of duty or justice.
16. 17. HOPE.
—
Anticipation; expectation offuture happiness, success,^.
Average, has some, but generally reasonable, hopes ; is seldom elated.
Foll, is quite sanguine, yet realizes about what he expects : p. 139.
/ Large, expects, attempts, and promises a great deal ; is generally san-
^/7 guine, cheerful, &c. ; rises above present troubles ; though disappointed,
hopes on still ; views the brightest side of prospects :
p. 137. c. 5. 6. 26.
Vert Large, has unbounded hopes; builds a world of castles in tho
air ;
lives in the future ; has too many irons in the fire : p. 138. c. 12. 13.
Moderate, expects and attempts too little ; succeeds beyond his hopt* ;
is prone to despond ; looks on the darker side : p. 139.
Small, is low-spirited ;
easily discouraged ; fears the worst ; sees many
lions in his way ; magnifies evils ; lacks enterprise: p. 140. c. 17.
Vert Small, expects nothing good ; has no hope of the future •
n 1 40
17. 18. M\RVELLOVSNESS.-Belief in the supernatural er'edulity.
Average, believes some, but not much, in wonders, forewarnings, «fcc?
12 srxorsxs or rnnnsotooh
'
d unchangcable of opi-
Vsnx Intrmn is wilful~ and so tonaclous an
_ _
nion, purpose,,&c., that lie seldom gives up BUY thing ~
1" 120- C' 5' S'
12. 14.15. 16. 17. .
_
llonnnrre, gives ovcr too soon ; changes t°° °nen
and too
Bigély
' thug
fiuls to effect what greater firmness would d0 -
P~_
12" C' 11'
SMALL on Venr SHALL, lacks þÿperseveranC ¬i
15 '-°° Chmgeable and
vacillating to effect much, or he relied upon : p. 12?-
SPECIES II. l`1U1LL nm Reunions SEITTIMENTS. _These rérldel
man a moral, accountable, and religious being; hllmflfllley =1d0'Tl.`8|'|J
elevate his nature; connect him with the moral government of
bod.
create the higher and nobler sentiments of
our nature; and are the origin
nfgoodness, virtue, moral principle and purity, f'55Cf P~ 48~ 123-
F' 2°
Avsnmr: on FULL, has moral feeling and principle, yet too little ta.
withstand large or very large propensities : c. 8. 15. 21.
_'
. Lancs on Vein Lance, is morally inclined; sentimental; thinks and
feels much on moral and religious subjects, &c.: p. 52. c. 5. 6. 7. 11. 41.
Moiisnyrs, SMALL, on VERY SMALL, has not strong moral or
religious
feelings; lets his larger faculties rule him: p. 52. c. 14. 17. 20. 26. 42.
15. 16. CONSClEN'I`IOUSNESS.-I/mate jkeling of duty, accounta-
bilityhjustice, right, &c. ,~ moral principle ; love of [rat/1, .-
p. 124.
Avsnime, has right intentions, but their influence is limited: c. 15.
ULL, strives to do right, yet sometimes yields to temptation; resists
besctting sins, but may be overcome, and then feels remorse :
p. 130. c. 27.
Lancs, is honest; fai"~ful; upright at heart; moral in feeling; grate
ful; penitcnt; means well ; consults duty before expediency ; loves and
means to speak the truth; cannot tolerate wrong: p. 126. c. 13. 25.11.
Van! LARGE, is scrupulously exact in matters of right; perfectly honest
in motive; always condemning self and repenting ; very forgiving, fon-
mientious, &c.; makes duly every thing, cxpediency nothing: p. 129.
Mom-:nA'r1:, has considerable regard for duty ln
feeling, but less in prac-
tice; justifies himself; is not very pcnitent, grateful, or forgiving ; often
temporizes with principle ; sometimes lets interest rule duly .-
p. 131;
SMALL, has few conscientious scruples; little penitcncc, gratitude, ro-
gard for moral principle, justice, duty, &c. :
p. 132. c. 20. 16. 17. 42.
Vent SMALL, neither regards nor
_/iéels the claims of duty orjustiee.
16. 17. HOPE.-Anticipation; expectation ofjitture }1appiness,succesa,<l~rr.
Avmues, has some, but generally reasonable, hopes; is seldom elated.
FULL, is quite sanguine, yet realizes about what he expects: p. 139.
Lance, expects, attempts, and promises a
great deal; is generally san-
guine, cheerful, &c. ; rises abovc present troubles; though disappointed,
hopes on still ; views the brightest side of prospects: p. 137, Q, 5, 6, 26,
fLn¥_ Lnrmz, has unbounded hopes; builds a world of castles in the
air; lives in the future; has too many irons in the Ere: p. 138. c. 12. 13.
llonznyrn, expects and attempts too little; succeeds beyond his hope; ;
IS prone to despond ; looks on the darker side :
p. 139,
SMALL, is low-spirited; easily discouraged; fears the worst' secs
many
lions in his way ; magnifics evils; lacks enterprise: p, 140i ¢_ ]7_
Vzny SMALL, expects nothing good; has no
hope of the future :
p. 140.
17. IS.
MARVIQLLOUSNESS.-Beliefin the supernatural; credulil _
Avuuen, believes some, but not much, in wonders, forewarnlngs dnl/
, .
WITH REFERENCES TO • PHRENOLOGY PROVED," &C. IS
i Full is open to conviction ; rather credulous ; believes in dreams, divine
^ providences and forewarnings, the wonderful, &c. : p. 143
Large, believes and delights in the supernatural, in dreams', ghosts, &c.
;
thinks many natural things supernatural: p. 142. c. 8. 12.
Vert Large, is very superstitious; regards most things with wonder.
Moderate, believes hut little that cannot be accounted for, yet is open
to conviction ;
is incredulous, but listens to evidence : p. 144.
Small, is convinced only by the hardest; believes nothing till he sees
fads, or ivhy and wherefore, not even revelation farther than a reason
is rendered ;
is prone to reject new things without examination : p. 145.
Vert Smaix, is skeptical ; believes little else than his senses : p. 140%,
18. 14. VENERATION.—The feeling of worship for a Supreme Being;
respect for religion and things sacred, and fur superiors . p. 147.
Average, may feel religious worship, yet little respect for men. 10.
Full, is capable of much religious fervour and devotion, yet is not hubi-
tually serious; generally treats his fellow men civilly : p. 149. c. 11.42.
/ Lahge, loves to adore and worship God, especially through his works;
(/s treats equals with respect, and superiors with deference : p. 148. c. 6.
Vert Large, is eminent, if not pre-eminent, for piety, heart-felt devo-
tion, religious fervour, seriousness, love of divine things, &c. : p. 149.
c 5. 12. 15. 16. 26. 41.
Moderate, disregards religious creeds, forms of worship, &c. ;
place*
religion in other things ; is not serious nor respectful : p. 150. c. 21.
Small, feels little religious worship, reverence, respect, &c. : p. 159
Vert Small, seldom, if ever, adores God ; is almost incapable of it
19. 13. BENEVOLENCE. Desire to see and make sentient beings happy,-
willingness to sacrifice for this end; kindness,- sympathy for distress-
Average, has kind, fellow feeling, without much active benevolence.
Full, has a fair share of sympathetick feeling, and some, though no
great, willingness to sacrifice for others: p. 158.
/ Large, is kind, obliging, glad to serve others, even to his injury ; feels
Uy lively sympathy for distress ; does good to all : p. 155. c. 6. 7. 18. 21.
Vert Large, does all the good in his power ;
gladly sacrifices self upon
the altar of pure benevolence ; scatters happiness wherever he goes ; is
one of the kindest-hearted of persons: p. 157. c. 5. 10. 11. 40. 41.
Moderate, has some benevolent feeling, yet too little to prompt to much
self-denial ; does good only when he can without cost : p. 158. c. 12. 20.
Small, feels little kindness or sympathy ; is almost deaf to the cries of
distress; hard-hearted, selfish, &c. : p. 159. c. 8. 14. 15. 26. 42.
Vert Small, is destitute of all humanity and sympathy: p. 159. c. 24.
SPECIES III. Semi-Intellectual Sentiments. By creating a taste
for the arts, improvements, polite literature, the refinements and elegancies
of life, &c, these faculties greatly augment human happiness, and adorn
and elevate human nature : p. 48. 159. c. 2. Large in c. 6. 11. 18.
20. 9. CONSTRUCTIVENESS. Mechanical dexterity and ingenuity ,-
desire and ability to use tools, build, invent, employ machinery, <$-c.
Average, has some, yet no great, relish for, and tact in, using tools.
y\ Full, has fair mechanical ingenuity, yet no great natural talent or desiro
// to make things; with practice, will do well; without it, little: p. 163.
Large, shows great natural dexterity in using tools, executing mecha-
nical operations, working machinery, &c. ; loves them: p. 101. c. 18.
2
Xvrm nnrsnnness -ro '
PHRLNOLOGI' rnovsn," dsc. 13
FU'-I-t is open to conviction; rather crcdulous; believes in dreams, divine
plrovidenees
and
forewarnings, the wonderful, dec.: p. 143.
anon, believes and delights in thc supernatural, in drganis, gh°5f,;,&¢,;
thinks many natural things supernatural: p. 142. c. S. 12.
VU" LUWH, is þÿV ¬ry
superstitious; regards most things with wonder.
M°'7'ERf'l:1'1»l*f'li0V<'S but little that cannot be accounted for, yet is open
to
conviction ; is incrcdulous, but listens to evidence :
p. 144.
SMALL, is convinccd only by the hardest; believes nothing till hc secs
facts, or
whgr and zvlifrcfitre, not even revelation farther than a reason
If '9¥`ld9"?d§ IS
_prone to reject new things without examination: p 145.
1 ERI Snr_r.L, lS
skeptical; believes little else th:n his senses:
pl 14(_
7
18. 14. 1
ENERA'1`I()N.-Yhefcfliug¢y"w0rs/tip fur a
Supreme Being,-
respect _fhr religion and things sarrcrl, and _fur superiors .~
p. 147.
A'EI{AGE, may feel religious worship, yet little respect for men. 10.
FULL, is capable ofmuch religious fervour and devotion,yet is not habi-
tually serious; generally treats his fellow men
civilly: p. 149. c. 11.42.
LARGE, loves to adore and worship God, especially through his works;
treats equals with respect, and superiors with deference: p. 148. c. 6.
V1-:RY LARGE, is eminent, if not pre~eminent, for piety, heart-felt devo-
tion, religious fervour, seriousness, love of divine things, &c.: p. 149.
C. 5.12.15.16. 26. 41.
MODERATE, disregards religious creeds, forms of worship, dec.; place!
religion in other things; is not serious nor
respectful: p. 150. c. 21.
SMALL, feels little religious worship, reverence, respect, &c.: p. 159
Ven! SMALL, seldom, if ever, adores God; is almost incapable of it.
19.13. BENEVOLENCE. Desire to see and make sentient beings happy;
willingness to sacrgyice for this end; kindness,- sympathy for distress
Avmutrnz, has kind, fellow feeling, without much active benevolence.
FULL, has a fair share of sympathetick feeling, and some, though no
great, willingness to sacrifice for others: p. 158.
LARGE, is kind, obliging, glad to serve others, even to his injury; feels
lively sympathy for distress; does good to all : p. 155. c. 6. 7. 18. 21.
Vim! LARGE, does all the good in his power ; gladly sacrifices self upon
the altar of pure benevolence; scatters happiness wherever he goes; is
one of the kindest-hearted of persons: p. 157. c. 5. 10. 11. 40. 41.
Momznrria, has some benevolent feeling, yet too little to prompt to much
seltidenial; does good only when he can without cost: p. 158. c. 12. 20.
SMA LL, feels little kindness or sympathy ; is almost deaf to the cries of
distress; hard-hearted, sclish, éirc. :
p. 159. c. 8. 14. 15. 26. 42.
VER! SMALL, is destitute of all humanity and sympathy: p. 159. c. 24.
SPECIES III. SEM1-1N'rELI.scTcAL SENTIMErr'rs. By creating a taste
for the arts, improvements, polite literature,the refinements and elcgnncies
of life, &c., these faculties greatly augment human happiness, and adorn
and elevate human nature: p. 48. 159. c. 2. Large in c. 6. ll. 18,
20. 9. CONSTRUCTIVENESS. llI¢=chaniculdcJ:fer1'ly and ingenuity ;
desi,-g and ability to use tools, build, irwent, employ marhincry, <5-c.
-AVERAGE, has some, yct no great, rrlish for, and tact in, using tools.
/"]f'Uu_, has fair mechanical ingenuity, yct no great natural talent or desire
to make thingg; with practice. will do well; without it, liltle: p. 163.
LARGE, shows great natural dexterity in using tools, executing mecha-
nical operations, working machinery, &,c.; lows them: p. 161. c. 18_
2
14 svsoi'Sis or ri»rt£!voi.otfi,
Vert Large, is a mechankk of the first order; a true genius ; love* it
too well to leave it ; shows extraordinary skill in it : p. 162. c. 7. 19.
Moderate, with much practice, may use tools quite well, yet dislikes
mechanical operations; owes more to art than nature : p. 163. c. 14.
Small, hates and is awkward and bungling in using tools, &c. : p. 163.
Vert Small, has no mechanical skill or desire : p. 164.
21. 19. IDEALITY.
—
Imagination! taste ; fancy ,- love of perfection,
poetry, polite literature, oratory, the beautiful in nature and art, <fa.
Average, has some taste, though not enough to influence him much.
/ Full, has refinement of feeling, expression, &c, without sickly delicacy
;
(M some love of poetry, yet not a vivid imagination : p. 1 68. c. 6. 7. 42.
^. Large, has a lively imagination ;
great love of poetry, eloquence, fiction,
good style, the beauties of nature and art: p. 166. c. 11. 18. 41.
Vert Large, often gives reins to his erratick imagination ; expe.iences
revellings of fancy, ecstasy, rapture of feeling, enthusiasm : p. 167. c. 4ft.
Moderate, has some, but not much, imagination ; is rather plain in
expression, manners, feeling, &c. ; dislikes poetry, finery, &c. : p. 168. 42.
Small, lacks taste, niceness, refinement, delicacy of feeling, &c. : p. 169.
Vert Small, is destitute of the qualities ascribed to this faculty : p. 169.
R. SUBLIMITY.—Conception of grandeur ,- sublime emotions excited
by contemplating the vast, magnificent, or splendid in nature or art.
Average, sometimes, but not to a great degree, experiences this feeling.
j, Full, enjoys magnificent scenes well, yet not remarkably so.
/A Large, admires and enjoys mountain scenery, thunder, lightning, tem-
7 pest, a vast prospect, &c, exceedingly ; hence, enjoys travelling : p. 249.
Vert Large, is a passionate admirer of the wild and romantick; feel*
the sublimest emotions whilst contemplating the grand or awful in na-
ture ; dashing, foaming, roaring cataracts, towering mountains, peals of
thunder, flashes of lightning, commotions of the elements, the starry
canopy of heaven, &c. : p. 249. c. 11, 40. 41.
Moderate, in.
-
* some, though not at all vivid, emotions of this kind.
Small, on ver Small, discovers little in nature to awaken this feeling.
"i%. 21. IMITATION.
—
Disposition and ability to take pattern, imitate
Average, copies some, yet too little to deserve or excite notice.
Full, with effort, copies some, but not well ; cannot ntimick: p. 171
/ Large, has a great propensity and ability to copy, take pattern from
i/*l others, do what he sees done, &c. ; needs but one showing ; gesticulates
> much ; describes and acu» oat well : p. 170. c. 41.
Vert Large, can mimjck, act out, and copy almost any thing; de-
scribe, relate anecdotes^ &.t., to the very life ; has a theatrical taste ami
talent; seldom speaks witnaut gesturing: p. 171. c. 11. 40.
Moderate, cannot mimick av all ; can copy, draw, take pattern, &c,
only with difficulty ; describes, relates anecdote, &c, poorly : p. 171.
Small, dislikes and fails to copy, draw, do after others, &c. : p. 172 N
Vert Small, has little ability to imitate or copy any thing: p 172 \
23. 20. MIRTHFULNESS.—Intuitive perception of the absurd and
ridiculous; a joking, fun-making, ridiculing disposition and ability.
*-A-verage, perceives jokes, and relishes fun, but cannot make much.
^2 Fww-i has much mirthful feeling ; makes and relishes jokes well : p. 175.
Large, has a quick, keen perception of the ludicrous ; makes a great
amount of fun ;
too much for his own good ; is quick at repartee ; smile*
often; laughs heartily at jikes: p. 173. c. 11. 18.
14 s\'No|'s.s or rvnnrvnnoui,
Vsrur Lmm., is a 7llP(`h(Il1l.CA' ofthe first order; a true
gdtlluff
l0"0% If
lm, wcll to loam it; shows cxtr:1o1'dinax'y skill in it
:_ p. 162. c. 7.
l_9.4
M0,,E,,,.,.E, with mm-li practice, may use tools quite well, yet dislikes
m9c|mui¢,|1 ¢,p¢r;,\tior\s; owes more to
art than nature : p. 163. c. 14.
SMALL, hates and is a\\k\vanl and l1\1l1gllllg1[1 using tools, &c.: p. 163.
Vnnr S»r_u.L, has no mechanical skill or desire :
p. 164.
_
21_ 19_ ]1)E_\I_,1'1'\'_.-I.uugz`1mIiun; t1lste;'funcy; love of perfection,
poetry, polite litfruture, urn/ary, /lic l1mut1fitlt11._rmlu1'e anti art, <$fo.
Avniiaos, has some tastc, though not enough to influence hun much.
F '
l .
'
r -finement offeeling, expression, doc., without sickly delicacy;
, rm., mst
"di 1.1 mation- p 168 c 6 7 42
some love of poetry, yet not a vlvi n
'
S ' ~ '~°°
1
LARGE, has a lively imagination ; great love of poetry, eloquence, fiction,
good style, the beauties of nature and art: p. 166. c. 11. 18. 41.
Vnrn' Iainan, often gives reins to his crratick imagination ; expeiiences
revellings of fancy, ecstasy, rapture of
feeling, enthusiasm: p. 167.
4_0.
Mom-:n.\'rE, has some, but not much, imagination; is rather plam ln
t finer &c . 168. 42.
expression, manners, feeling, &c.; dislikes poe ry, y, . :
p
SMALL, lacks taste, niceness, refineinxent, delicacy of feeling, &c.: p. 169.
VERY SMALL, is destitute ofthe qualities ascribed to this faculty :
p. 169.
SUBLIM1TY.-Conception qfgrandeur; sublime emutfofzs excited
by cfmtcmplating the vast, ntugnf/icmt, or
splendid in nature ur art.
Avnuasn, sometimes, but not to a great degree, experiences this feeling.
FULL, enjoys magnificent scenes well, yet not remarkably so.
B.
/1 Lancs, admires and enjoys mountain scenery, thunder, lightning, tem-
pest, a vast prospect, &c., exceedingly; hence, enjoys travelling: p.249.
Vxnr Lanorz, is a passionate admirer of the wild and romantirek; feels
the sublimest emotions whilst contemplating the grand or awful in na-
ture; dashing, foaming, roaring cataracts, towering mountains, peals of
thunder, flashes of lightning, commotions of the elements, the starry
canopy of heaven, &c.: p. 249. c. 11. 40. 41.
Monimars, li..\ some, though not at all vivid, emotions of this kind.
SMALL, on vlan »:§nr.\LL, discovers little in nature to awaken this feeling.
22. 21. IMIT ATION.-Dispz/sit1'on and ability to take pattern, imitate
Avnnaon, copies some, yet too little to deserve or excite notice.
FULL, with effort, copies some, but not well; cnnnot minzic/r: p. 171
Lancs, has a great propensity and ability to copy, take pattern from
others, do what he sees done, &c.; needs but one
showing; gesticulateu
much ; describes and acts out well :
p. 170. c. 41.
Vsav Laxwz, can mimrck, act out, and copy almost any thing; do
scribe, relate anecdotes, ac., to the very life; has a theatrical taste and
talent; seldom speaks without gesturing: p. 171. c, ll, 40_
MODERATE, cannot rnimick at all; can
copy, draw, take pattern, &¢.,
only with dilliculty; describes, relates anecdote, &c., poorly :
p. 171.
SMALL, dislikes and fails to copy, draw, do after others, &c.: p. 172_
Vsin SMALL, has little ability to imitate or
copy any thing: p, 172,
23. MIRTHFULNESS.-Intuitive perception uf llrc absurd and
ridiculous ; a
jolclng, fun-making, rirliculing dis]/osition and ability.
'F-ll<\U1'?, þÿP ¬\'C9lVCS
þÿ_l0k ¬S,
and relishes fun, but cannot make much.
l"oLL, has much mirthful feeling ; makes and xelishes jokes well: p. 175
Lancia, has a quick, keen perception of the ludicrous; makes a great
amount of fun ; too much for his own good; is quick at repanee
.
smue.
after.; laughs heartily atjvkes: p. 173. c. 11. 13.
'
•WITH REFERENCES TO " 1'HUKNOLOGT PROVED," &C. 15
Z*" L
^
HGE'
is
1uick anJ apt at turning every thins into ridieule
,
throws ofl constant sallies of wit ; is too facetious, jocose, &c. : p. 175. o. 6.
Moderate, has some witty ideas, yet lacks quickness in conceiving,
and tact in expressing them; is generally quite sober: p. 176. c. 26.
bMAL!, makes little fun ; is slow to perceive, and still slower to turn
jokes; seldom laughs; thinks it wrong to do so: p. 177.
r>^rr
T Small'
has few if any witty ideas or conceptions: p. 177.
GENUS III. Intellectual Faculties. These have to do with the
physical and the metaphysical world ; with things in general, and their
qualities, relations, &c. ; with the world and its contents : p. 49. 177. c. 2. »
^Average or Full, has sufficient intellect to get along in the world,*
A yet not enough to render him eminent for talents : c. 10. 15. 2). 27.
t^y Large, is possessed of sufficient natural talent and power of intellect
___— to enable him to take a high intellectual stand among men, yet their
direction depends upon other causes : c. 18.
Vert Large, is by nature a truly great man ;
possesses the highest
arder of natural talents ; is capable of rising to pre-eminence : c. 5. 6.
7. 11.40. 41.
Moderate or Small, shows little talent , lacks sense : c. 8. 14. 20. 42.
SPECIES I. The Senses ; sensation, sight, hearing, taste, smell. 178.
SPECIES II.
—
Observing and Knowing Faculties. These bring
man into direct intercourse with the physical world ; observe facts of
all kinds, that is, the conditions, qualities, phenomena, and physical
relations of material things : collect and treasure up information ; creaU
the desire to see and know things, &c. : p. 50. 183. c. 2.
Average or Full, possesses fair perceptive powers : c. 6. 10. 11. 21.
J~"Xarge, with advantages, knows a great deal about matters and things
1
in general ; is very quick of observation and perception ; has a practical,
matter-of-fact, common sense tact and talent ; can show off to excellent
advantage ; appear to know all that he really does, and perhaps more ;
is capable of becoming an excellent scholar, or of acquiring and retaining
knowledge with great facility, and attending to the details of business
;
and has a decidedly practical intellect: p. 50. c. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 25.
Vert Large, is pre-eminent for the qualities just described ; seizes as
if by intuition upon the properties, conditions, fitness or unfitness, value,
&c, of things ; has wonderful powers of observation and ability to
acquire knowledge ; has a natural taste and talent for examining and
collecting statistics, studying natural science, &c. : p. 53. c. 5. 7. 12. 40.
Moderate or Small, is rather slow of observation and perception ,
cannot show to be what he is ; acquires knowledge with difficulty ,
is slow in learning and doing things off-hand, &c. : p. 53.
24. 22. Individuality—Observing and individualizing power and
desire; curiosity to see and know; disposition to specify, personify.
/^Average, has some, yet no great, curiosity, and desire to see things,
cy Fun, has fair observing powers, and desire to see things : p. 185. c. 6. 21.
Large, has a great desire to know, investigate, examine, experience,
&c. ; is a great observer of men and things ;
quick of perception ; sees
what is transpiring, what should be done, &c: p. 184. c. 8. 10. 11. 14. 25.
Vert Large, has an insatiable desire to see and know every thing ,
extraordinary observing powers; is eager to witness every passing
event: p. 185. c. 5. 7. 12. 13. 15 22. 23. 40. 41. 42.
WITH REFEILENCI-:S T0 "l'IIltHWt`|L(G' ritovsn," &c. 15
XEBY Lii'g"GE»
is
flulffli Urld
'H}>t_ at turning every thing into ridicule ,
Mrows
0 constant salhes
of wrt; ls too facetious, jocose, &c.: p. 175. c. 6.
an'éD;1;£liI`E»
has
Some
*witty ideas, yet lacks quickness in conceiving,
m
expfessllltl l- fm? is
generally quite sober: p. 176. c. 26.
§1;H-L, Hakes 'limi funl;
is slow to perceive, and still slower to turn
1° 953 59 Om
aug 15? t inks it wrong to do so:
p. 177.
VERY SMH-F-1 has few if any witty ideas or
conceptions: p. 177.
GENQS III.
INTELLEC'l`U:~L F.cvI.'r1es. These have to do with the
physical and the vnetaphysn-al world ; with things in gene,-al, and their
Qualifies, "¢'ll1li1I"S» &»C-§ with the world and its contents: p. 49. 177. c. 2. |
`A'ERAGE on FULL, has sutlicient intellect to get along in the world,
yet not enough to render him eminem thr talents: c. 10. 15. 2). '27.
LARGE, is possessed of sutlicient nfzlurul talent and power of intellect
_ to enable him to take a high intellectual stand among men, yet their
direction depends upon other causes: c. 18.
VERY Lanes, is by nature a truly great man; possesses the highest
order ot' natural talents; is capable of rising to pre-eminence .- c. 5. 6.
7. 11. 40. 41.
ltlonrmyrs on Saint., shows little talent, lacks sense: e. 8. 14. 20. 42.
SPECIES I. Ti-ra Ssxsrzs ; sensation, sight, hearing, taste, smell. 178.
SPECIES Il.-Onssnvrxo AND Kxowiwo Facurxrras. These bring
man into direct intercourse with the physical world; observe facts of
all kinds, that is, the conditions, qualities, phenomena, and physical
relations of material things ; collect and treasure up information ; cream
the desire to see and know things, &c.: p. 50. 183. c. 2.
AVERAGE on FULL, possesses fair perceptive powers : c. 6. 10. 11. 21.
nies, with advantages, knows a great deal about matters and things
in general ; is very quick of observation and perception; has a practical,
matter-of-fact, common sense tact and talent; can show off to excellent
advantage ; appear to know all that he really does, and perhaps more ;
is capable of becoming an excellent scholar, or of acquiring and retaining
knowledge with great facility, and attending to the dem-its of business;
and has a
decidedlypraclical intellect: p. 50. c. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 25.
V1:n¥ LARGE, is pre-eminent for the qualities just described; seizes as
if hy intuition upon the properties, conditions, htness or unfitness, value,
&c., of things; has wonderful powers of observation and ability to
acquire knowledge; has a natural taste and talent for examining and
collecting statistics, studying natural science, &c.: p. 53. c. 5. 7. 12. 40.
Monsuxrs on SMALL, is rather slow of observation and perception,
cannot show t
l
is glow in learning and doing things oillhand, doc.: p. 53.
24. 22. þÿINDIVIDUALl'I'Y.1Ob3 ¬7`1Il7Zg' and indfvidzullizing power and
desire; ClL7`l0S'l't_7/ to see and /mow ; ri1'S7>0Sfli01l f0_-Sjpfvffy, Plffsoni/`_a/.
AVER.lGE, has some, yet no great, curiosity, and
desire to see things.
FULL, has fair observing powers, and desire to_see things :_ p. 185.c._6. 21.
Lanes, has a gfl?/ll desire to know, investigate, exam1ne,e>tper1ence,
Soc.; is a great observer of men and things; quick of perception; sees
what is transpiring, what should be
done, &c.: p. 184. c. S. 10. 11.
141. 25,
VER! LARGE, has an insatiable desire to see
andt
know every thing;
~
, obsc,-Vina gwers; is eager to wi ness every passing
'"""""lm""/
1_ 1D2,pl3. 15 22. 23. 40. 41. 42.
o he what he is; acquires knowledge with difficulty,
event: p. 185. c. 5.
<h
16 9T.VOI'91S OP PHHEXOtOOI,
Moderate, is rather deficient, yet not palpably so, in observing power
and desire ; not sufficiently specifick : p. 185.
Small, is slow to see things ; attends little to particulars : p. 186.
A' i;ht Small, sees scarcely any thing; regards things in the gross : p. 180
25. 23. FORM.—Cognizance and recollection of shape, or configuration
Average, recollects forms, laces, &c, quite well, but not very well.
CTull, recognises persons, countenances, &c, well : p. 188. c. 9. 19.
*
Large, notices, and for a long time remembers, the faces, countenances,
™*
forms, looks, &c, of persons, beasts, things, &c., once seen ; knows by
sight many whom he may be unable to name : p. 187. c. G. 18. 40. 20
- Vert Large, never forgets the countenance, form, &c, of persons and
things seen ; easily learns to read and spell correctly; reads and sees things
at a great distance; has excellent eyesight: p. 188. c. 5. 7. 13. 17. 23. 39.
Moderate, must see persons several times before he can recollect therp ;
sometimes doubts whether he has seen certain persons : p. 189.
Small on Very Small, has a miserable memory of persons, louka,
shape, &c. ; fails to recognise even those he sees often : p. 189.
26. SIZE.—Cognizance and knowledge of relative magnitude, bulk, ifo.
Average, measures bulk with tolerable, but not great, accuracy : c. 21. 27
Full, can measure ordinary and familiar distances well, yet shows no
remarkable natural talent in it: p. 191. c. 6. 8. 9. 10. 14. 18.
Large, has an excellent eye for measuring proportion, size, height,
angles, perpendiculars, &c. ;
quickly detects disproportions in them :
p. 190. c. 11. 19. 25. 42.
Vert Large, detects disproportion, and judges of size, with wonderful
accuracy, by intuition, and as well without as with instruments ; canno*
endure inaccuracy : p. 191. c. 5. 7. 12. 13. 15. 16. 17. 40.
Moderate, is rather deficient in measuring by the eye ; with practice,
may do tolerably well in short, but fails in long, distances : p. 191.
Small, judges of relative size, &c, very inaccurately : p. 191. c. 28. 2ft.
Vert Small, can hardly distinguish mountains from molehills: p. 192.
27. WEIGHT.
—
Intuitive perception and application of the principles
of specifick gravity, projectile forces, momentum, balancing, resistance.
Average, balances himself tolerably well in ordinary cases, yet has no
great natural talent in this respeet: c. 21. 27.
/ Full, keeps his centre of gravity well, but ventures little: p. 194.
(fl-
Large, can walk on a high or narrow place ; hold a steady hand; throw
a stone or ball, and shoot, straight ; ride a fractious horse, &c, very
well: p. 193. c. 16. 17. 25. 26. 40. 41.
Vert Large, has this power to a wonderful extent : p. 194. c. 7. 13. 15.
Moderate, maintains his centre of gravity, &c, rather poorly :
p. 194.
Small or Vert Small, is unlike one with weight large : p. 195. c. 2Q.
28. 26. COLOUR.—Perception and recollection of colours, hues, tints', /(C
A,verage, can discern and recollect colours, yet seldom notices them.
^Full, with practice, compares and judges of colours well ; without it, does
^S not excel : p. 196. e. 10. 11. 41.
Large, has a natural taste and talent for comparing, arranging mingling
applying, and recollecting colours; is delighted with paintings: p 195
Vert Large, resembles one with colour large, but excels him :
p."
196
Moderate, aided by practice, can discern and compare colours, yet owes
less to nature than art ; seldom notices colours unless obliged to, and
tuen soon forgets them •
o 197 c 20
,_..,
I6 srsovsis or en.=¢._~or..u.\.
l\1un:;na'rE, is rather deficient, yet not pnlpilllly SO, ll* 0l'5l""'l"t§ POW"
and desire; not sullicicntly specilick: p. 185.
_
S»|.u.r., is .'o\v to see things; attends little to
lfafilffllalsi P* 186'
1 nur Sv1.\l.L, secs scarcely anything;|'eg'dr11Sl|1IUl'-151111119 gross* P' 186
233, 23. F()l{M.- Cognizmzre und 1-cr1.[[w:!imr of sh(/pf, 00' CU'7f1`é""`"i'""
Avnn.u:r:, recollects forms, titres, &c., quite well, but W"
:`U".Y
Well'
`L'L1., recognises persons, cuuutenanecs, 55%. Wclli P- 185- C' 9° 19'
Lance, notices, and for a long time rc-menihers, the Faces, countcnanccs,
fornrs, looks, &c., of persons, beasts, tlllllgsy &°1'-1 UNCC Stfell 3 knows by
sight many whom he may be unable to name: p. 187. C. 0. 18. 40- 25
VEIRY Lanai-1, never forgets the countenance, form, &c., of
perSons.a|1t1
things seen; easily learns to read and spell correctly; reads and secs things
at a great distance; has excellent eyesight: p. 188. e. 5. 7. 13. 17. 23. 39.
MODEllAT}I, lnust see persons several times before he can rccollcct then? S
sometimes doubts whethcr he has seen certain persons : p. 189.
S»1.n.r. on Vrznr Simian., has a miserable memory of persons, loolm,
shape, &c.; fails to recognise even those he sees often : p. 189.
26. $lZl'].- Cngzzizance and /c71uu'/edge fy" relulire þÿl1llIg'7Zl'f'll(] ¬,
buf/vt, 413.
Avmuce, measures bulk with tolerable, but not great, accuracy : c. 21. 27
FULL, can measure ordinary and familiar distances well, yet shows no
remarkable natural talent in it: p. 191. c. 6. S. 9. 10. 14. IS.
Lanes, has an excellent eye for measuring proportion, size, height,
angles, perpendiculars, &c.; quickly detects disproportions in thcm:
P. 100. c. 11. 19. 25. 42.
Vrznrr Lancia, detects disproportion, and judges 'of size, with wonderful
accuracy, by intuition, and as well without as with instruments ; cannot
endure inaccuracy :
p. 191. c. 5. 7. 12. 121. 15. 16. 17. 40.
Mom»:n.\1~a, is rather deficient in measuring by the eye ; with practice,
may do tolerably well in short, but fails in long, distances: p. 191.
Shun., judges of relative size, &c., very inaccuratcly : p. 191. c. 28. 29.
Vent SMALI., can hardly distinguish mountains from molehills: p. 192.
27. WEIGH'I`.-In(uii1've perception and zz]/plicaliuu of the princzpka
of speeyick gravity, ]1rqjeci1'lefm'ces, momentum, balancing, resistrtlzce.
Av.\:n.mn, balances himself tnlerahly well in ordinary cascs, yet has no
great natural talent in this rcspcrt: c. 21. 27.
_ FULL, keeps his centre of gravity well, hut ventures little: p. 194.
~I..\nGx, can walk on a lliglr ur narrow
place ; hold a
steady hand; throw
a stone or hall, and shoot, straight; ride a fractious horse, &c., vcry
well: p. 193. c. 16. 17. 25. 26. 40. '11,
Vent Lanon, has this
power to awonderful extent: p. 194. c. 7. 13. 15.
Momznarrz, maintains his centre of gravity, &e., rather' poorly :
p. 194.
SMALL on Vent SMALL, is unlike one with weight large: p. 195. c. 20.
28. 26.
COLOUR.¢Pfrcepliun mul rece)/celzbn of col:/urs, hues, tinls, <1-c.
Azvsnaorz, can
discern and recollect colours, yet seldom notices them.
eu., with practice, compares andjudges ofcolours well; without it, does
not excel: p. 196. c. 10.11. 41.
Luuarz, has a natural taste and talent for
comparing, arranging, minglinu,
applying, and recollecting colours; is delighted with paintings: p. 19;
VERY Luton, resembles one with colour large, but excels him: p. 196.
Monr:nA'rr:, aided by practice, can discern and compare colours
' -
_ , yet owes
less to nature than art; seldom notices colours unless obliged to and
then. soon forgets them: D 197 c '20
'
WITH REFERENCES TO "PHRENOLOGY PBUVED," &C. 17
Small, seldom observes the colour of one's hair, eves, dress, &c; can.
not describe them by what they wear, or compare colours apart; hardly
distinguishes the prnnary colours by candlelight, much less shades: p. 197
9Q ,«* hSd ° *« te
" WhUe fr° m l,Iack
-
but do little mw- P- '97. c. 1
-59. 2S. VHDhK. System ; physical arrangement , a place for things.
Average, appreciates order, yet not enough to keep it : c. 9. 10. 27.
/ t cll, likes order ; takes much pains to keep things arranged : p. 200.
*p Large has a place for things, and things in their places ; can find, even
'
m !™ '
what he alone uses >
is systematick ; annoyed bv disorder :
p. 199. c. 6. 11. 15. 19.40. 41.
Very Large, is very precise and particular to have every littlehtimg in
its place ;
literally tormented by disorder ; is fastidious : p. 199\ e. 5. 7
Moderate, likes, but does not keep order ; allows confusion : p. 201.
Small or Very Small, is nearly destitute of order and system : p. 201
30. 29. CALCULATION.
—
Intuitive perception of the relations of num
shers ; ability to reckon figures in the head; numerical computation.
ys Average, by practice and rules, may reckon figures quite well : c. 10.
C^f Full, aided by rules and practice, may excel in reckoning figures, and
do well in his head, but not without them : p. 204. c. 11. 27.
Large, can add, subtract, divide, &c, in his head, with facility and
correctness ; become a rapid, correct accountant ; delights and excels in
arithmetick : p. 202. c. 5. 13. 15. 19.
Very Large, has an intuitive faculty, to a wonderful extent, of reckoning
even complicated sums of figures in his head ; delights in it: p. 203. c. 7.
Moderate, does sums in his head rather slowly and inaccurately : p. 204.
Small, is dull and incorrect in adding, dividing, &c. ; dislikes it : p. 205.
Very Small, can hardly count, much less go farther : p. 205. c. 28. 29.
31. 27. LOCALITY. Cognizance and recollection ofrelative position, looks
andgeography ofplaces, %c.; desire to travel, see the world, ifc: p. 205.
Average, has a fair, though not excellent, recollection of places: c. 27.
Full, remembers places well, yet is liable to lose himself in a city or
forest ; ordinarily shows no deficiency ; seldom loses himself: p. 207. c. 8.
• Laiige, recollects distinctly the looks of places, where he saw things,
rf/-\6ce.; seldom loses himself, even in the dark; has a strong desire to
%Y travel, see places, <Scc. : p. 205. c. 20. 25. 26.
"""^Vmir Labge, never forgets the looks, location, or geography of any
place, or hardly thing, he has ever seen ; is even passionately fond of^
travelling, scenery, geography, &c. : p. 206. c. 5. 7. 12. 13. 16. 17. 40.^* *
Moderate, recollects places rather poorly ; sometimes gets lost : p. 207,
Small or Very Small, has little geographical or local knowledge or
recollection ; seldom observes where he goes, or finds his way back : p. 208
SPECIES III. Semi-perceptive Faculties. These have to do with
action or phenomena, and their conditions, and deal them out to the
reasoning faculties : p. 50. 209. Large in c. 5. 7. 17; small in 6. 25.
32. 30. EVENTUALITY.
—
Recollection of actions, phenomena, occur-
rences, what has taken place, circumstantial and historicalfacts : p. 209.
Average, has neither a good nor bad memory of occurrences, &c; c 8.
Full, recollects leading events, and interesting particulars, and has a
good memory of occurrences, yet forgets less important details: p. 212.
/ Large, has a clear and retentive memory of historical facts, general news,
fP what he has seen, heard, read, &c, even in detail: p. 210. c. 5. 10. 16.
Very Large, never forgets any occurrence, even though it is trifling
a*
WI'l'l! nzrznsncss 'ro "PnnaNoLoux' rnuvso," dec. 17
SMALL, seldom observes the colour of one's hair cves dress &c '
can.
. '
7 '_ 7
' `
) '!
þÿ§Pl_l`]¬SC}'lb¬
Iflclh
hy what they \vear, or
compare colours apart; hardly
xpstlnguishes
the prunary colours hy C3lllll(!llgl1f,ITll1(Zh less shades: p.l97
'~"Y SMU-L. can tell wlntc from black, but do little more:
p. 197. c. 1
29. 28. ORDER. System; 'lt sical -~
a- V
.
1
_
[1 _y an
/rlrzhemerzt , ap ace
fin: things.
Avmuos, appreciates order, yet not enough to
keep it: c. 9. 10. 27.
F'-'I-I-r likes Order; H1405 l1\l1Ch pains to keep things arranged :
p. 200.
iianos, has a
place for things, and things in their places ; can final, even
in the dark, what he alone uses; is systematick ; annoyed bv disorder:
p. 199. c. 6. 11. 15. 19. 40. 41.
'
,VERY Lanai-:, is very precise and particular to have every liltielthing in
its place ; literally tormented by disorder; is fastidious: p. 199 c. 5. 7
Mol.\1:n.1Tr;, likes, but does not
keep order; allows confusion: p. 201.
SMALL on VER! SMALL, is nearly destitute of order and system: p. 201
30. 29. CALCULA'I`l0N.~Intu1'live perception of the rela/ions ofnurn
,/bers ; ability to reckon fgures in the head ,- numerical computation.
/ Avsnaes, by practice and rules, may reckon figures quite well : c. 10.
FULL, aided by rules and practice, may excel in reckoning figures, and
do well in his head, but not without them: p. 204. c. 11. 27.
Lanes, can add, subtract, divide, &c., in his head, with facility and
correctness; become a rapid, correct accountant; delights and excels in
arithmetick: p. 202. c. 5. 13. 15. 19.
Van! Lance, has an intuitive faculty, to a
wonderfulextent, ofreckoning
even
complicated sums of figures in his head; delights in it: p. 203. c. 7.
BIODERATE, does sums in his head rather slo\vly and inaccurately: p.204.
SMALL, is dull and incorrect in adding, dividing, &c.; dislikes it: p. 205.
Van! SMALL, can
hardly count, much less go farther: p. 205. c. 28. 29.
31. 27. LOCALITY. Cognizance and recollection qf1'ela!1`ceposi{i011, looks
anflgeography ofplaces, lic.; desire to lraz'cl', see //ie world, r$»c..~ p. 205.
Avnnaris, has a fair, though not excellent, recollection of places: c. 27.
FULL, remembers places well, yet is liable to lose himself in a
city or
forest; ordinarily shows no
deficiency; seldom loses himself: p. 207. c. 8.
Lanes, recollects distinctly the looks of places, where he saw things,
&c.; seldom loses himself; even in the dark; has a
strong desire to
travel, see
places, &c. :
p. 205. c. 20. 25. 26.
'YERY Lanai-;, never forgets the looks, location, or
geography of any
place, or
hardly thing, he has ever seen; is even
passionately fond
pf.
travelling, scenery, geography, dsc.: p. 206. c. 5. 7. 12. 13. 16. 17. 40.*
itionnnxrrz, recollects places rather poorly ; sometimes gets lost :
p. 207.
SMALL on VERY SHALL, has little gcograpliical or local knowledge or
recollection ; seldom observes where he goes. or finds his way back: p- 208
SPECIES III. SEMI-PERCEPTIVE FA<'L'L1'IES- These have to do with
action or
phenomena, and their cmzriitions, and deal them out to the
reasoning faculties: p. 50. 209. Large in c. 5. 7. 17; small in 6. 25.
32. 30. EVENTUALl'['Y.-Recollcctiun of actions, phenomena, occur-
rences, what /las ta/:en place, circa/nstanlia! and /zisturica/facts :
p. 209.
AVERAGE, has neither a good nor had
memory of
þÿoccurrer1C ¬S,
560-Q C- 8»
FULL, reeollects leading events, and
interesting particulars, and has a
good memory of occurrences, yet forgets less important details: p. 212.
Lines, has a clear and retentive memory of historical facts, general news,
.
w|,,,, he has Seem heard' read, &¢_, even in detail: p. 210. c. 5. 10. 16,
Yury Lance, never forgets any occurrence, even though it is trifling
2:
~
18 SVMII'SIS Or 1'HIIF.NOl.OKr,
has a craving thirst for information and expcrimen ,
literally devours
books, newspapers, &c. ; commands an astonishing amount of informa-
tion ; p. 211. c. 12. 13. 14. 20.
Moderate, recollects generals, not details; is rather torgetful: p. 212. c.H.
Small, has a treacherous, confused memory of occurrences : p. 213.
Vkiit Small, forgets almost every thing, general* as well as particulars.
33. 31. TIME.— Cognizance and recollection of succession, the lapse of
time, dates, how long ago things occurred. Ac.: p. 214. '»
Average, notices and remembers dates, limes, &c, some, but not welL.^
<^"~Full, recollects about, but not precisely, when things occurred : p. 216.
"-' Large, tells dates, appointments, ages, time of day, &c, well: p. 215.
Vbht Large, remembers, with wonderful accuracy, the time of occur-
rences ; is always punctual ; tells the time, day, &c, by intuition : p. 216.
Moderate, has rather a poor idea of dates, the time when, &c. : p. 216.
Shall, can seldom tell when things took place ; is not punctual : p. 217.
Vtnr Small, is liable to forget even his age, much more other things.
34. 32. TUNE.
—
Tone,- sense of melody and musical harmony ; ability
to learn tunes and detect chord and discord by ear , propensity to sing.
Average, likes music ; with practice may perform tolerably well.
Full, can learn tunes by ear well, yet needs help from notes : p. 220.
Large, easily catches tunes, and learns to sing and play on instruments
by rote ; delights greatly in singing ; has a correct musical ear : p. 218.
Vert Large, learns tunes by hearing them sung once or twice ; is
literally enchanted by good musick; shows intuitive skill, and spends
much time, in making it; sings from the heart, and with melting pathos
.
„ p. 219. c. 12.
\A Moderate, aided by notes and practice, may sing, yet it will be mecha-
CZ^y nically ; lacks that soul and feeling which reaches the heart : p. 220. V.
Small, learns to sing or play tunes either by note or rote with great
difficulty; sings mechanically, and without emotion or effect: p. 221.
Vert Small, can hardly discern one tune or note from another : p. 221.
35. 33. LANGUAGE. Power of expressing ideas, feelings, 4-e., by
means of words, attaching meaning to signs, tyc. ; verbal memory;
/ desire and ability to talk: p. 222.
// Average, can communicate his ideas tolerably well, yet finds soma
y
Y difficulty ; uses common words ; can write better than speak.
Full, commands a fair share of words, yet uses familiar expressions;
is neither fluent nor the reverse; when excited, expresses himself freely,
yet not copiously : p. 227. c. 6.
Large, is a free, easy, ready, fluent talker and speaker ; uses good lan-
guage ; commits easily ; seldom hesitates for words : p. 224. c. 5. 7. 20
Vert Large, has by nature astonishing command of words, copious
ness and eloquence of expression, and verbal memory ; quotes with
ease ; is an incessant talker ; has too many words : p. 226. ell. 40. 41.
Moderate, often hesitates for words ; employs too few ; may write well,
and be a critical linguist, but cannot be an easy, fluent speaker .-
p. 228.
Small, employs few words, and those common-place; in speaking,
hesitates much ; is barren in expression; commits slowly: p. 228.
Very Small, can hardly remember or use words at all, or read: p. 229.
GENUS IV. Reflective or Reasoning Intellect. This looks
beyond mere physical facts and natural phenomena, and investigates
their causes, abstract relations, analogies. great principle*. &c. : originates
18 sxsnrsis nr i-»|l|nNnLon¥»
has a craving lbirsl for inibrnmtion and
HXQ0'i_|11f*f y
l|el`UllY_'l?"°""s
books, newspapers, &c.; cmniiiaiids an asttllllslllng 9m°um of m umm'
limi '
i. 211. C. 12. 13. 111. 20.
hloiiizriixriz, recollects generals, not details; is rather lorgetfulr p.2l2. C. 6.
SMALL, has a treacherous, csriifusctl memory of occurrences 1 P' 213'
Viziur SMALL, forgets almost ewry thing. þÿg ¬ll0Fiil¢
HS
"'f*ll "S lmr'-lculars'
33. 31. '1`lME.- Cagufzance (l7I01l'CC0"CCffl)II of SUCCESSIOH, [be lapse of
lime, dates, bow lung ago things occurred, ffrv- -' P- 214-
,
Avizsaris, notices and remembers dates, timcs, &c., some, but n0t well.
f"Ul.L, recollects about, hut not precisely, Wllvn things 0C'¢""f°'] '
P' 216'
Lancs, tells dates, appointments, ages, time of day, &c., well: p. 215.
Vznr L.lGE, remembers, with wonderful accuracy, the time of occur-
rences; is always punctual ; tells the timc, day, &c., by intuition: p. 216.
1`{Dl')EllATE, has rather a
poor idea of dates, the time wbezz, &c. :
p. 216.
SMALL, can seldom tell when things took place; is not punctual :
p. 217.
Vsnr SMALL, is liable tu forget even his age, much more other things
34. 32, TUNE.-Tone ; sense
fy' melody and musical barnzony ; ability
Io learn tunes and detecl c/Lord and discard by ear ; prlperrsily lo sing.
Avsnms, likes music; with practice may perform tolcrably well.
l"ULL, can leam tunes by ear well, yet needs help from notes :_ p. 220.
L,ru;i-:, easily catches tunes, and learns to sing and play on instruments
hy rote; delights greatly in singing; has a correct musical ear: p. 218.
Vim: Lnleiz, learns tunes by hearing them sung once or twice; is
literally enc/tanled by guud musick; shows intuitive skill, and spends
much time, in making it; sings from thc bearl, and with melting pathos .
p. 219. c. 12. ._
Mon i:nA~ri:, aided by notes and practice, may sing, yet it will be mecha»
nically; lacks that soul and feeling which reaches the heart: p. 220. ..
SMALL, learns to sing or
play tunes either by note or rote with great
difficulty; sings mechanically, and without emotion or effect: p. 221.
VERY SMALL, can
hardly discern one tune or note from another: p. 221.
36. 33. LANGUAGE. Power of expressing ideas, felings, ds., by
V_means of wrrrzls, utfac/Ling meaning to signs, dc. ; verbal memory;
,~ desire and abilily lo (al/c: p. 222.
A'l»1l1A(iE, can communicate his ideas tolerably well, yet finds some
difficulty ; uses common words; can write better than speak.
FULL, commands a fair share of words, yet uses familiar expressions;
is neither fiuent nor the reverse; when excited, expresses himself freely,
yet not copiously :
p. 227. c. 6.
I._ucr;, is a free, easy, ready, fluent talker and speaker; uses
good lan-
guage ; commits easily ; seldom hesitates for words: p. 224. c. 5. 7. 20
Vim: Lanai-1, has by nature astonishing command of words, copious-
ness and eloquence of expression, and verbal memory; quotes with
ease; is an incessant talker; has too
many words: p. 226. c. ll. 40.41,
Mom:nA1's, often hesitates for words; employs too few ; may wrile well,
and be a critical linguist, but cannot be an
easy, Hucnt speaker .-
p. 228.
SMALL, employs few words, and those common~placc; in speaking,
hesitates much ; is barren in expression; commits slowly: p. 228.
Vimr SMALL, can
hardly remember or use words at all, or read: p. 229.
GENUS IV- Ri:r'Ll»:c'rivi-: on Rr:/lsoNrNo INTHLLECT. This looks
beyond mere
physical _facts and natural phenomena, and investigates
their causes, abstract relations. analogies, great principles. &c.: originates
WITH REFERENCES TO "PHRENOLOGT PROVED, &C. 19
ideas ; ascertains and applies natural laws; contrives; invents, &c. ; p. 229.
Large or Vert Large, with perceptive intellect less, gives great depth
without brilliancy of talent ; shows to be less than he is ; holds out welL
36. 35. CAUSALITY.
—
Cognizance ofihe relations of cause and effect;
ability to apply them, or to adapt means to ends , po/xier of reasoning,
drawing inferences from premises, discovering first principles, HfC.
2_Ayerage, has some, but no great, ability to plan and reason : c. 10.
\ Full, adapts means to ends well ; has an active desire to ascertain
<—' causes, yet not a deep, original, cause-discovering and applying mindx
p. 236. c. 21. 27.
Large, plans well ; can think clearly and closely ; is always inquiring
Into the why and the wherefore—the causes and explanation of things
;
always gives and requires the reason , has by nature excellent judgment,
good ideas, a strong mind, &c. : p. 233. c. 5. 18. 19. 41.
Vert Large, is endowed with a deep, strong, original, comprehensive
mind, powerful reasoning faculties, great vigour and energy of thought,
first-rate judgment, and a gigantick intellect: p. 236. c. 6. 7. 11.40.41.
Moderate, is rather slow of comprehension ; deficient in adapting means
to ends; has not good ideas or judgment: p. 237. c. 8. 12. 13. 15. 16.
Small, has a weak, imbecile mind ; cannot contrive or think : p. 238.
c. 14. 20. 25. 26.
Vert Small, little idea of causation : is a natural fool : p. 238. c. 28. 29.
37. 34. COMPARISON.
—
Perception of analogies, resemblances, differ-
ences ; ability to compare, illustrate, criticise, classify, generalize, <$rc.
Average, perceives striking analogies ; illustrates tolerably well : c. 8. 21.
j^HFVll, illustrates, discriminates, &c, well, but not remarkably so : p. 243.
r j Large, has a happy talent for comparing, illustrating, criticising, arguing
^
from similar cases, discriminating between what is and is not analogous,
or in point, classifying phenomena, and thereby ascertaining their laws,
&c. : p. 241. c. 7. 12. 13. 15. 18. 19. 41.
Vert Large, is endowed with an extraordinary amount of critical acu-
men ; analytical, comparing, and illustrating power : p. 243. c. 5. 6. 40. 41.
Moderate, may discern obvious similarities, yet overlooks others : p. 244.
Small or Vert Small, is almost destitute of this power: p. 244. c. 28.29.
Having made numerous observations upon the following organs, and
especially upon suavitiveness, the author considers them as highly pro-
bable, but not as ascertained. (See pp. 248-9.) He therefore places
thorn before the tribunal of facts, and awaits its decision, meanwhite
summoning the phrenological world as witnesses. They were first
pointed out by L. N. Fowler, brother of the author.
C. SUAVITIVENESS. Ability to render one's self agreeable,- pleasant-
ness.
Average or Full, neither excels nor is deficient in this respect.
Large or Vert Large, readily wins confidence and affection, even of
enemies ; can say and do hard things without creating difficulty ; obtain
favours ;
get along well ; so say and do things that they take : p. 248
Moderate or Small, is deficient in the power just described.
D. This faculty is as yet without a name. One with this organ
Large or Vert Large, perceives, as if by intuition, the character any
motives of men from their physiognomy, conversation, &c. ; is suspicious,
and seldom deceived ; naturally understands human nature : p. 247.40.
V derate or Small, seldom suspects others; is easily imposed upon ;
i—ni-jg human nature slowly ; does not know well how to take men : p. 247.
,4r-
wrru uizr-'izmzxcas 'ro "1>nnnsoLon¥ rnovao, écc. I9
ideas ; aseertains and applies natural laws; contrives; invents, &c.; p.229.
L:\IlGE 0n_\lnn¥ LARGE, with perceptive intellect less, gives great depth
Wnlmul l'"ll1'\"¢`Y Of talent; shows to be less than he is; holds out welL
36.
_ CAUSAL1'I`Y.--Cognizailce ofthe relations of cause and eject ,-
Ublllff/ 10
jlpply 2/16/71, or lo adapt means to ends ; power of reasoning,
drawing in
crcncesfrom premises, d1`scoz'eringjirsi principles, c$-c.
virtual-1, as some, but no great, ability to plan and reason: e. 10.
FULL, adapts means to ends well; has an active desire to ascertain
causes, yet not a
deep, original, cause-discovering and applying mind;
`-
p. 236. c. 21. 27.
Lanes, plans well ; can thinlt clearly and closely ; is always inquiring
into the 1/;l1_y and the wherefore-the causes and explanation of things;
always gives and requires the reason ,- has by nature excellent judgment,
good ideas, a
strung mind, &c.: p. 233. c. 5. 18. 19. 41.
VERY Lance, is endowed with a deep. strong, original, comprehensive
mind, powerful reasoning faculties, great vigour and energy ot' thought,
first-rate judgment, and a gigantick intellect: p. 236. c. 6. 7. 11.40. 41.
Monnrtxrlz, is rather slow of comprehension; deficient in adapting means
to ends; has not good ideas or judgment: p. 237. c. 8. 12. 13. 15. 16.
Sriram., has a weak, imbecile mind ; cannot contrivc or think: p. 238.
C. 14. 20. 25. 26.
Vim! SMALL, little idea of causation: is a natural fool: p. 238. c. 28. 29.
37. 34. COMPARISON.-Percepfion of analogies, resemblances, dffers
ences ; ability to compare, illustrate, criticise, classify, generalize, Jrc.
A\'E}lAGE, perceives striking analogies; illustrates tolerably well: c. 8. 21.
'"FUI.L, illustrates, discriminates, &c., well, but not remarkably so:
p. 243.
L/max, has a
happy talent for comparing, illustrating, criticising, arguing
from similar cases, discriminating between what is and is not analogous,
or in point, classifying phenomena, and thereby ascertaining their laws,
&c.: p. 241. c. 7. 12. 13. 15. 18. 19. 41.
Vrarur I..inm»:, is endowed with an
extraordinary amount of critical acu-
men; analytical, comparing, and illustrating power: p. 243. c. 5. 6. 40. 41.
Mon;n_\1'x:, may discern obvious similarities, yetoverlooks others: p.24/L
Snau. on Vmu' SMALL, is almost destitute ofthis power: p. 244. c. 28. 29-
Having made numerous observations upon the following organs, and
especially upon .§'lt(llY1'fl.1_'£TlE.5S, the author considers them as
highly pro-
bable, hut not as ascertained. (See pp. 248-0.) He therefore places
them before the tribunal offucls, and awaits its decision, meanwhile
summoning the phrenological world as witnesses. They were first
pointed out by L. N. Fowler, brother of the author.
C. SUAVITIVENESS. Ability to render vne's seU` agreeable; pleasant-
ness.
AVERAGE on FULL, neither excels nor is deficient in this respect.
Lenox: on VEIKY Lancs, readily wins confidence and alfection, even of
enemies; can say and do hard things without creating difliculty; obtain
favours; get along well; so say and do things that they la/ce .-
p. 248
Monnrurrt-: on SMALL, is deficient in the power just described.
D. This faculty is as yet without a name. One with this organ
Liner.; on Ven! Lanes, perceives, as if hy intuition, the characler any
motives of men from their physiognomy, conversation, &c.; is suspicious,
and seldom deceived; naturally understands human nature: p. 24140.
N ~n1;nA'rr; on SMALL, seldom suspects others; is easily imposed upon;
i .....; human nature slowly; does not know well how to talte men:
p. 247.
20
_ eww-\}gj§'_T' ._.._¥1' 5 ,
,
'~e\\\-\\\~2
""'
3 ~
5
[W/af.
11§`..~-~"
~-°'
.
l#~ a
1" a'v17
'v»/,.
._<>'..»~~""
2 .
Z 2 92 "é"'~-~ff"'*
.
»__.~ 12
C\>n><~\r\\. E
}l<~yf'. 4 /
1 f-Cay
N- 1
:
1 ¢ = 4
f ~~. 1/
f '
'QW
- =
= 'fa =
1/4 zf4,,) D n.
x vi
..._
__
3
3 4 =__
,. --\ gb
=_
A
"fy
,
-'° ll
"""-~---....-......_.....-»---.__
"~_
'
Z L 1
1
5 i
B e Q1
» = 23 5 36
137
x on "-_
.
' 5 S
1
,L 0%
Cautnausnm, ; Sublimhy, Id¢amy_ Q Minh.; Q Q
41 04
~
}
\ 3fu\nrss.g QQ 5
- : _
-r
§
g /_
z -Q
g_ »__..»-
'
_,___,...,...__
_....
4
'
2
, 3
, '_,,-----_...___
, ~-.__
.4
_
#ff
10
i 20
`\ 5 _
z
~
'
.
FJ
.11
AdhE,g|,_,P. Secr4*|.\\cnf=ss.§ 9 Acqmsib
Cunstnxclwe. 5
'Z 2
ness '
°""`"";;;.°- is iV°"95"' E : <.
`
Qi' I j 3 F
"§\ .`~°"~
' 333%
'°°"'"Y- 339
¢.3 ,~'
1 5
1
,._.,_....sT a 3 31
>.--.
$2 5
5 S'
, ._
5 ""*'- i,..__,a
» .-
"
3 5
2
3
f
~."
'. _i ___;.»-~-ev-J.,
'¢
3; f'm»,m,,. is
8 _
a
" 'semi 5
3'
"'°fIess. 2 },\\\1\9\\|-\\'e25
E? f"i" '24
E;
~
;_
"e.,s_ ,_-' £__'f4¢-,_ ',_!g§27§2s _S
.___........,_ `
./____§,,...fx 25
__..
~.
:Cam '*°La,..,, <~»<°~
1 1 ._
*.Q|.|on,30
"age
Ammvl'/~
""`
n95S. §
..-°"'
\
2_5
~.
\.
'\
'A
,
»n _
f Y?
. V <`, ,§ 134,
555; §`
w , ,
_5} <¥\
~ #9
Q;- '"'
'
' i f , 5;
1
24 ' `
w
.J f _»3_
(0 ',
1
Monl Seutimenis.
\" Sem\ In ¢ll¢c*\n\ .vo
§¢n(\l'I\EIl13
=
6* L;
q¢°P'n \/~
W'
~'~'
§$§¢;~\
21 _~
_
_
3
nf:
:
J'
______
_
*Q
a §@'"g 125
~. sv _~».
- *_
-~~' 5
" T.-»~~~-~ ._.._ f~ 11
3 3
Q
~-~-
-~~~
~-~..
._..... ___.
__...
.._.,.._
_
'_ G
M-...__~i.~___i_____;,__,..i______...
* 3
11 18
23
36 3 36 'gg 37
9; ...~:. =
__ .-~...
3
1
"° 3° J 'D * `
._
21
_._ _ :iii'1__" 1 <11
,_
M
Q
4 CJ
Wi
5
fi ;
/;{¥_, " ": ' _
1" 19
!
~
'-
,.--\
, ,
_-/-i`
'
1/`
4/ 1,
w
iz
1
, V ., ,;r».., - 7
__
.f:~ '_
~
Y "1
"`
5. J:
1
111
1 1 1
3
14 18 ,
/
f
r "
/ /
/
,4/qf Z
"' f
1'
V /
R
1
ss ' '/ Q so
'"
~i"'"w1
'
VI
'
<
J37
I
(KW , ' 53'
7?
1 1 "J '~ '
' P
w"v",w ,
(
( 1/tm/vel"'l[/Mllllfllllllllllm 35 1
1/ 4% N'
I 1 I
. 4 ' `\\|| "f5vf*' 3
/I
Q
3 1
é( `
F* / Q.
I
»
/ 'if
`
~. 1
A 1
., 1
1
Q
6 §\ /
% ` §
`~
11
I
/ .___
-
1
N11
» ~~
MQW,
I
1|
:W F _,., ~!||"f|:'»;' '
f
»=w&1 1 HM 1 H m;
/ff/My 1
',t!»M]l}i'" I
`* M-'1 '1
if;'f"@
'
11
";';1?'W1WW
°
1.~1é¢=~i' 1
Y
h|I;AiY]f~ mW'(My>__.
7
`;U`) 1%
Mk @§',w »
JM; rf"
`
3" 'Wa X `¢
W
9
0
_
9 19
> '~ .--~
~ ,
,.
`
?V ,fi¢';f ""'»~v» _
442 7, 1;
'M-$5
,; 4% \M
.._ , '>/ 4,5 //f ;/|`.~=_ M;
`\§~ Q* %
v\L '
(_ 'L §§§i*'; Q
J] W1 ')
?`
'
'
~
*
4
'
10
&?_"-:V 'AHF 'Il "`|'
g `w\"g§ /
\\.\»" NN 'Nh
"il|nf2I|'i}iI~\'H"{'ffGS~\`§ W_L-'mx
"<\Wir,'"
!([|iU"\i'i'i1"'
"M
'mu
1%
"@ °' "- »»»
M
`
'gr
"
Q, "|\\1'»,|
' "
'v;_f5~ 3 ,
";A Aw U
1,
3'
W ` Jr)"`y."
5 ,.,6»)},I;I' V5
,V
"""
"va ,l
"K
"IW |¢<'f|W|»
I n my
5
»
~
"
0 :i"F*»1""
°
,if
*mmuhnn\1\1:mnW
1°
1"
w1'"."'5
J( fea 3 \1x|lI1l!l1UUhIUl11' M
,
`
|9` ` ; "`\'
Q?
'
.»_,.=
wg;
»-~
5/f» 'mf
'
4
\~1v»f;@qg@i;}:<~
,(f» ,».\g»~ »
"
'\\~'~4\\¥\ _ _j:=2 <:;».»wWy!£§§f%f<¢'Q»v'
_. U Q \| ,\.. __ \ 13%/,é§¢'l_,||1\\\ff\)@VXf¥;,\W,
'44 M W W Q »y
5 _
`W»M»fYf¢g;11,3M7f4|f§¢§%§§@§
4 »
~
14%»»»»""»-...
Q
..
~
- »
"'
15 m\\@naa\m»:&@:;m
23 f
`-` ?"": `
,,;V,\- M. '
v
wW»»w#f+==w\'~ "
vw-» M _
9f
""
ff /'% ""'
ll --'
GM' '";; M "°--¢f11
1
»
MU- ` ! p-
\-5 I,
Mm WM
fiwff "
,`\'\'\"\ _'
'Lfl;]:"f
`
`
\`
Wk
10ji!;};@j;};;10',§?;3;1§£W'{"f11;aiatf ji! ;};@j;};;10 ',§?;3;1§£W'{" f
11
;aiatf
Vw V
;"Tf'=,. sifi'
~
H "_
U95
-
|` `
,
\
'Nm fn ,,`,
,
M .WI/\
17
`"`
.f ~'
fll|'7l' 7
1r|f"'
`\
JI, 5, maj
/
"
11"
" """"`
'\\`- _
VHF:
ff.; -"|| ,.
In
f_,>i1~ :
VM
7
v` 'MU
7-
"\;vn::lh,l!`lE|-
"|l1|lll11l11lii'
\` `uiiL\\\il\i\|\ll\|lL|l»U
1§ 19 34
=
Y \
'
f4
I
ff
-g 'E _"M_,35
M7310 29
'Zo 7 ' cr
V 7
'
'
Vi.-#1 -` 2? ,
* ss
`
'
02, I` ,
'
~,'
(f f.
.
$
AM., , 3.2, _
,
V .\
,. ,,_ /; __\\
.{ (.n\\1\'\\`m\\|\,|
_Q '
ve; fl,
'°" \°
\ *"'
m Jr' '
hh- ,\urimiMl ;`
.
`
'-'» 7
_I
I8
7-
'WAP
"1
38
:"""7/'fi
,`
"~`"
/fi
,
/f
A
If: PTY' \
y '._` 54 33
,:$;'f77;M ,
`
4
36 %/ /.. 44
`
2_
`[{(;,[Mm1_- |, NM
'H
41% S
f,;§W;,'»'@!»» _
U
,EM
,ang 4%)¢/AM þÿ»,i¬»uW.i",!"H|2§i|1"\\MH',
'
/ i U W
/;' x;
_,,~
`
,'f4?v=,_,¢g4"` '
21
20
( ;@;
;
: _'
.,»~
@
MH £%`|M 'UH' nw!
O
3` 1
QQ
"
Q4
"|u§|"
\Lf"^7rW*i>»J
5
,
W /
23
so
~
U
'
/'
f p ( `
1 I
_ --'W F 1
"gl
T -, .`~'< ~f
gf/_
,,-
2 m. ,
*=
gg.
_
,
,
if 40 ff?
'~
21
V %'~
`
,__
~;,
g
A-f
ff 4
§ `
'~
_
#5 - ~ "I
'
~
~ .-'T w'-Q.
'-\~- K
<. ; __
V
wg `» ~g ;» . `
CL. 7;
» -
~
/ f
s MW
is
Q4
þÿ~»<';*m¬f<l*/'EWQfgm. "`="
wil)/7' H ,'°'§`
'°f5|~f?"/ .ff-5» L;
g?`M%` l';|f3f%'4'k23`i§§\w]
H
» , f i; ' f 'f 'f'j
%
L, "H ~
`5|§3'|iff'2f§/
fi"
"@§¥f}l'
"
"fn
"' -
yn
'~'
` §31
"'""' 27
I9
'E'
ff#
,
/ \%Q_"
,#;/m,f»wf~w»f
<
N r IMI"
I
'W
4
IWW ' 'hs 1 5%
' éjgm
'
M » `\
28
,,
=§_ }l,.lP~~_ ,lx
Li
ff gawww
'»
vy , '
~-
lf\ W ¥
'N
{'1L|1E1'»»
1 'H VV
w v~»\»
ff
-
" W M9 ~'.w<'\ |H= 42
2| '
" H
1,
D
¢
A
'
s 36
"
" ;»
}/A _
Y-Vt
31 ,G
'
an `
' f, _
"V
-
.
f Hi. .
24
_
». v», 2
.ag
,
,
.M|&5~
-1 a u)
|i1~'_ ' gt 33" f%
55%
Q
&
:S
`
/
`=
,"
'
r,
' ~
1 1
I Q
_:N
.14
"
X
,N
If
W/
;m,_,_m\H'!_
7% f,
'
"%¢<§'»
Q ;
;
§
1° V*
~ Qgh /2%
_ _ ,_
.
, ,W
1
HIV"
cu
3°
N
I 41
in W
3
\Y wh,
ggy \ %
* f "mf
I
l 4
I fb;
41
QE,
as '
3°1[`
/
vi Q 1
»
'
'_~wu£
gif);
& "uJH'"
M"
§§
/
