{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__hall___lotus_of_the_law.pdf","mytitle":"Lotus Of The Law","mylang":"de"}
THE LOTUS OF THE
LAW
A n A llegory
by
M ANLY P. HALL
3fr
Complimentary with Monthly
L etter
Phoenix Press
L os A ngeles, Calif.
THE LOTUS OF THE
LAW
An A llegory
BY MANLY P. HALL
B
U, the ancient one, had spent
the day gathering wood. The
shadows were falling in the val­
leys, the sun hung like a globe
of blazing copper upon the
peaks of the Jade mountains.
Lu bent his back to a great bundle of fag­
gots and, leaning heavily upon a crooked
stick, prepared to descend the narrow path
that led downward into the gorge below.
' A long, slanting amber beam from the
setting ¡sun streaked like a golden road
across, the sky, gilding with its glow a 'ver­
dant hillock where a rushing stream frbrh
m
the mountain fell m cascades to a pool be­
low. A sweet song sounded from the peaks,
to be echoed and reechoed from the depths.
The song seemed to come from the sun,
and as Lu gazed into the copper light he
saw the figure of a man walking slowly
lown the road of light. As the figure came
closer Lu preceived it to be a Buddhist
monk with flowing robes and shaven head.
The monk carried in his hands a small mu­
sical instrument resembling a lute and Lu
heard the words of an ancient Buddhist
chant drifting to him on the breath of the
evening.
Down the pathway of the sunbeam
moved the monk in his yellow robes until
at last he placed his foot upon the grassy
hillock by the side of the waterfall. Seat­
ing himself upon the carpet of short green
grass the monk gathered his robes about
him and with the lute across his knees
chanted the slokas of the ancient Law.
Lu hastened down the mountain, his
bundle of faggots forgotten. He prostrated
himself before the elder of the village. The
elder told his prince, and it was thus that
the Emperor came to know.
[ 2 ]
colorful procession moved slow­
ly along the narrow path which
wound through the depths of
the gloomy gorge. First came
gaily comparisoned knights in
bamboo armor, their small shag­
gy horses trapped with purple and gold bro­
cade. Then followed yeomen, armed with
long bows and wearing corslets of elephant
hide studded with gilded bosses. Behind
them marched in solemn step princes of the
state in flowing robes of green and saffron,
each with a tablet of ivory, and gold threads
braided in his queue. Next came twelve
youths, musicians of the court, playing soft
sweet music upon amber flutes and tinkling
little bells of jade.
In the midst of this proud company
moved a glorious palanquin of scarlet lac­
quer, borne by long handles upon the
shoulders of twenty pages who marched in
rhythm to the jadestone bells. The palan­
quin was hung with countless curtains of
the sheerest and most diaphanous silk. In
the midst of these gauzy billows, upon a
throne of jewels, bearing a scepter of purest
lapis lazuli, sat the Emperor of China, Son
of Heaven, the living glory of the ages.
[ 3 ]
Behind his serene augustness walked the
privy councillers, the ministers extraordin­
ary, the mandarins, and a great body of the
powerful "and the learned wearing black
hats with coral buttons. Lastly there were
more yeomen and more knights and a con­
course of peoples from the countryside who
followed at a respectful distance.
Pomp had come forth to meet a prophet.
Word had reached the imperial ear that a
man of great wisdom had come down from
the sky on a ray of the setting sun and had
established his hermitage in the shadows of
the ancient gorge by the edge of the moun­
tain stream. For many days the song of the
Lohan had greeted the dawn and the voice
of the sweet singer of the Law had mingled
with the voice of the lushing waters.
The Emperor had traveled for many
hours and now, as the afternoon sun hung
upon the ragged peaks of the Jade moun­
tains, the ravine widened and the path led
into a pleasant glade fringed with gnarled
trees and great boulders that in some remote
age had crashed from the cliffs above. The
procession halted, the musicians ceased their
playing—the journey was ended.
U 3
A thin waterfall descended from a great
height over fantastic rocks and scattered a
mist upon the small pool below. In the
shallows of the pool played carp of brilliant
hue, and over its cool surface hung purple
dragonflies. Beside the pool, on a cushion
of soft grass which grew on an outjutting of
disintegrating rock, sat an ancient man
wrapped in the folds of a voluminous cloak.
His knees w'ere drawn up before him and
his chin rested on his folded hands. Two
great dark eyes seemed to glower out from
under the folds of the cape which formed a
covering for his head. Before the Lohan
was a narrow shelf of rock upon which
stood a rare and delicate vase of white
cracklewiare. Beside the Arhat lay his lute
and his begging bowl.
The palanquin was lowered to the
ground, to rest on dragon’s claws of teak,
and the Son of Heaven stepped from his
high seat and came towards the weird fig­
ure on the rock who neither moved nor
spoke. His supreme augustness knelt upon
the path and, striking tbe hard earth three
times with his forehead, addressed the Lohan
with these words:
[ 5 ]
Oh most exalted father; most exquisite
sage, the earth with all its treasures pays
homage to the Eternal! I salute the Law I
salute the ¡Buddha, I salute the Three Jew­
els, I salute the Eight Priceless Truths, I
salute one who practices perfectly the Six
Paramitas. Oh, most excellent and exalted
Arhat, I salute the embodiment of the vir­
tues and crave that I may receive from you
the substance of the Blessed Truth. Reveal
to me, oh sage, the very reality of the Law.
impart to me the everlasting Reality by
which I may accomplish the Nirvana!”
Deep and thundering, yet most strange­
ly sweet and melodious was the voice of the
Lohan, and these were his words:
The Law may not be spoken. The
Iruth may not be enclosed in words. If
you desire enlightenment, therefore, oh Em­
peror of China, go to the edge of yonder
pool where grows the white lotus. Pluck
from the water a blossom, a bud, and a leaf
firing them to me.”
As the Lohan spoke ten mandarins
stepped forward to serve the Emperor, but
the bon of Heaven waved them all aside,
[ 6 ]
and rising went'himself'to the edge of the
pool. With his gold-encrusted fingers he
plucked from the surface of the waters a
blossom, a bud, and a leaf. Returning, he
made profound obeisance and laid them at
the feet of the Lohan. For the first time
the sage moved. With slow and rythmic
gesture he turned back the edge of his robe,
extended one long and graceful hand, and
taking slowly the blossom he placed it in
the vase of crackleware. With the greatest
care he placed it, giving profound attention
to the task.
“This,” he said “is the supreme and rad­
iant Self. And this bud—,” he picked it up
and placed it in the vase, “is your own most
inward nature, oh Emperor. And this—”
picking up the leaf, “is the earth which is
given to your rulership. I have arranged
these three—the blossom, the bud, and the
leaf—according to the perfection of wisdom.
Therefore behold in this vase with its con­
tents the full mystery of the Law, for I have
arranged these three that they might bear
witness to the ageless Truth and the ever­
lasting Reality. Meditate upon this, oh Em­
peror, for if you perceive not the mystery
which I have prepared before you, you are
[ 7 ]
not worthy to receive the Law/’
The Lohan gathered the cloak once
more ab°ut h u n g er did he speak again, but
sat hke some graven image, gazing at the
porcelain vase. The
ut he saw only a flower, a bud, and a leaf
i/thST0
^
^ tHe mystery of the Law!
Emperor and heVenm
g’ Kt by torches>the
iperor and his retinue returned to the
Vermillion city. The Arhat still sat g a z i l
upon the blossom
, the bud, and the leaf. S
* * # #
canteih wh 6 ^ PaSSed‘ Two mcndi'
cants in white garments, with peaked straw
tha ’ l ^ Walk^ aW the narrow path
that led into the deep gray gorge of the
jadestone mountains. They came on a nd
S S y" '“ '„M y Shrine that had bee!;
lit on a little hillock by a waterfall. The
pilgrims had come a great distance, they
were weary and footsore, and the dust of
S c h e d eh35 l CaVy i P° n them- At ,ast Aey
out and P ,a'u WherC the ravine widened
H I) rt d before -them rose an aacient shrine
Old doors,tguarded by grave-faced i n S l ’
steps worn.dt-ep by the feet of the faithful
, y he side .of the shrine, upon the back of
a great stone turtle, stood a tablet, deep
etched with ancient Chinese characters. One
of the pilgrims read the tablet aloud:
“Erected by his most serene augustness,
the Emperor of China, to mark his meeting
with an Arhat of the Eternal Law. Upon
this place the Law was revealed but the eyes
of the Emperor were unworthy to perceive
it. Therefore has this shrine been erected
that the Law may be preserved, even if not
comprehended.”
.. As the. pilgrims.turned from the tablet
they beheld a drowsy priest seated in the
warm sunshine. The second pilgrim ad­
dressed him. “Oh father, we have come to
pay our most humble respects at this most
noble and sacred shrine. I pray you permit
,us to enter the sanctuary and present for
our inspection tlie most holy relic which it
contains.” ; - Q
n [
The priest rose and, followed by the pil­
grims,^ ascended the rutted steps, moved a
long beam in its grooves, and swung open
the"' temple' door. 'W ithin was a feisty- twi­
light, faintly lighted by little oil lamps, the
flickering flame reflected from numerous
m
gilded objects. In the midst of the temple
was a small marble pagoda, and in the very
center of the pagoda a golden box. This
the priest opened. The box had no bottom
but rested upon a narrow shelf of rock.
Within the box was a vase of white porce­
lain, and in the vase a blossom, a bud and a
leaf of the lotus. The priest, kneeling before
a small low table, unrolled a brocaded scroll
and read to the pilgrims:
“The most sacred relic of this shrine is
the blossom, the bud, and the leaf of the
lotus which you here see in the porcelain
vase. They were placed thus a thousand
years ago by an unknown Arhat who has
been called the Singing Lohan. When plac­
ing these three parts of the lotus in this vase
the Arhat declared that the Law was re­
vealed. His words were most startlingly
fulfilled, for, although ten centuries have
passed and no man has touched this vase,
the flowers have neither wilted or in any
way changed. They were placed in the
Law, by the Law* they are sustained. But
if they be touched or moved in any way
they will immediately fade and die.”
[10]
