{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__james___count_cagliostro_or_the_charlatan____v1.pdf","mytitle":"Count Cagliostro Or The Charlatan","mylang":"de"}
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
OR,
T H E C H A R L A T A N .
A TALE OF
TH E REIGN OF LOUIS XVI.
IN T H R E E V O LU M ES.
VOL I.
L O N D O N :
EDW ARD BULL, PUBLIC LIBRARY.
1», HOLLES STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE.
1838.
4 4 3 .
Digitized by Google
LONDO N:— C. RICHARDS, P R IN T E D , ST. M ARTIN'S LANK.
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
OR,
THE CHARLATAN.
CH A PTE R I.
THE CARDINAL AND HIS SECRETARY.
T he apartment, in which his Eminence the
Cardinal Di Jomelli was daily wont to break his
fast, was as noble and spacious a saloon as any
in Italy. The floor, or at least as much of it as
a luxurious Turkey carpet permitted you to see,
was paved with the purest marble, chequered
B
Digitized by
2 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
and diversified with different coloured lavas*
The walls were hung with a fine specimen ol
Gobelin tapestry, while the vaulted ceiling ex*
hibited an exquisite representation of Susannah
and the Elders, by Julio Romano. Some ex­
quisite relics of antique sculpture were tastefully
disposed in different parts of the saloon, no
doubt to soften and relieve the splendour of the
gilded and showy furniture.
Many wise and pious people are of opinion,
that it is necessary to invest the superior clergy
of a land with rank and affluence; lest they
should cease to command the respect of the
wealthy and refined classes of society. But
those, who most insist on the necessity of eccle­
siastical affluence, would certainly have been
satisfied with the room in which the Cardinal
was accustomed to take his morning refection*
Ill-natured people might possibly have foun4
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 8
flaws or defects in the holy prelate’s moral and
religious character, but none in his palace. The
most fastidious and sneering nobleman in Italy
could not, with any regard to truth and can­
dour, have affected to undervalue his Excel­
lency’s breakfast room.
The Cardinal entered the apartment with a
languid air. The prelate was a stout hale man
of sixty, somewhat inclining to obesity. His
white hair and purple cheeks seemed to indicate
that he had enjoyed to the utmost the good
things which Providence had allotted to his
share. His features, though somewhat thick­
ened and animalized by excess, had been once
regular and even handsome.
His secretary, a keen-looking dark-eyed little
abbate of thirty, who had been some time
waiting the Cardinal’s appearance, rose at his
approach, and in a quiet, but insinuating man-
b 2
Digitized by Google
4 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
Tier, enquired how his Eminence had passed
the night.
“ Pretty well— pretty well; I dosed for a
couple of hours— a very fair amount of rest,
when you consider the terrible excitement of
the preceding evening.”
The prelate had not, as some unsophisticated
reader might imagine from these words, been
witnessing the death-bed horrors of some noble
profligate; he had not been deciding on the
life or death of some half-score of heretics; he
had not even been assisting at any of the more
impressive or fatiguing ceremonies of the Roman
Church; he had been to a concert to witness
the debut of a prima donna who had been
engaged at his instance.
“ I did not tremble much,” said the secre­
tary ; u the result was not in my opinion for a
moment doubtful. I knew that your Eminence’s
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 5
recommendation would vindicate itself, and
come forth from the trial, like pure gold from
die furnace.”
<
€Ah ! my son,” said the prelate with a look
of kindly reproach, “ you speak with the rash­
ness of youth. But how can I blame you. I
did not act myself with the caution becoming
my years ”
w I thought your Eminence had seen the
Signora Bettoni twice, and were well assured of
her surpassing talents.”
“ True— but consider what I risked. I had
pledged myself to all Rome, that the rising
glory of my youthful debutante should eclipse
the meridian blaze of Madame Colnacci. All
Rome was there, and aware of the fact. If she
had failed, I was a lost man !— my musical
reputation was gone for ever!— I could never
have shown myself in the musical world again!”
Digitized by Google
6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ But her success was certain, after the first
bar.”
“ Ay, but reflect my son,” rejoined the Car­
dinal with moral solemnity, “ how small an
accident might have marred the happy result!—
a cold, a headache, nervous agitation, a cause so
trifling as to be imperceptible— nay, unknown
to mortal eyes— might have blasted the great
triumph. Then look at my position. The
audience would have accepted no excuse, no
extenuating circumstances; and one of the Fa­
thers of the Church would have been exposed to
the ridicule and obloquy of all Rome. I shudder
to look back on the danger I have escaped.”
The prelate threw himself panting on a sofa,
and thrusting forth one of his crimson-stockinged
legs, which showed to great advantage on the
yellow satin of the couch, he firmly placed the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 7
other on a velvet footstool, and demanded his
breakfast.
While the Cardinal was thus occupied, the
secretary busied himself in sorting and arrang­
ing a huge pile of memorials, and other papers,
seemingly with the view of presenting them to
the Cardinal, when he should have finished his
repast. The latter appeared to guess his secre­
tary’s intention, for he impatiently waved his
hand, exclaiming—
MDon’t trouble yourself, I cannot transact
any business this morning; my thoughts are of
another world.”
With these words the Cardinal stretched him­
self in a still easier position on the yellow satin
sofa, while his eyes assumed the lack-lustre
expression indicative of profound reverie.
The secretary’s eyebrows elevated themselves
Digitized by Google
8 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO 5
with surprise on hearing the celestial naturebf
the Cardinal's thoughts. He endeavoured to
track the direction of his intently gazing eyes,
and ascertained them to be fixed on a splendidly
bound breviary, which was lying on an ebony
reading desk at some distance, and which, by
the way, though twenty years old, looked as
good as new.
“ Now may I be broiled on the gridiron of
St. Lawrence,” thought the Abbate, Mif he is
not going to celebrate a private Te Deum for
the success of La Bettoni, and in that posture
too P
Notwithstanding his internal scandal, the
complaisant Abbate rose, and was about to
hand the breviary to his superior, when the
Cardinal, perceiving his mistake, said, with
some confusion, but more amazement—
“ Nay, my son, I meant that they had wan-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 9
dened to the realm of music— the sphere of
poetry. The delicious notes of the Signora
Bettoni were still thrilling on my ear, and
lapping my soul in Elysium.”
The wily secretary was much more confused
than the Cardinal, to find that he had uninten­
tionally been more pious than his master, and
he hastened to set the latter at ease by a little
elegant blasphemy.
“ If your Grace’s thoughts then were not
occupied with Heaven, they were at least fixed
on an angel.”
“ Good— good— I protest,” said the Cardinal,
chuckling with delight, and rejoiced to find,
that, though profane himself, he might still
lecture his secretary on profanity. “ But, my
son, methinks you allow your musical enthu­
siasm to carry you too far, and to make your
wit almost border on sacrilege.”
b 3
Digitized by
10 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ I acknowledge my fault,” said the Abbdte,
submissively casting down his eyes; “ but who
can be near your Grace, and be otherwise than
an enthusiast in that divine science ?”
Before the Cardinal could answer this flat­
tery, the door opened, and a lacquey announced
that a monk of the Benedictine order craved
audience of his Eminence.
“ Pshaw!” said his Eminence, who was much
more disposed to have given audience to a
singer than an ecclesiastic. “ This is too bad!
before I have even finished my morning refec­
tion ! We cannot always be occupied with our
ecclesiastical functions. Already my constitu­
tion sinks under the fatigue: eh, Maroncelli ?”
said he, looking at his secretary, without whose
advice he no more ventured to take any step in
business, than a prince of the blood-royal, who
is nominally appointed Generalissimo of an
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 11
Army, dare order a movement without the
sanction of the veteran at his elbow, who has
been specially appointed to guide him.
“ From what convent does the holy father
come ?” said the secretary to the lacquey.
The lacquey disappeared, and, in a moment
afterwards, re-entered with the information that
the stranger belonged to the convent of St.
John's.
u Perhaps,” said the secretary, “ he brings
news respecting your Eminence's niece; and if
I mistake not, the nunnery adjoining St. John’s
contains the picture ofthe holy Baptist,” (cross­
ing himself) “ which your Eminence so much
admired, and was anxious to purchase of the
good sisters. Perhaps they have despatched
this monk to negociate the transaction for them.
Does not your Eminence recollect the paint­
ing?”
Digitized by Google
V2 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
The Cardinal’s half-shut eyes opened wider
and wider during this speech, till at last they
actually appeared to scintillate; and, with a
vivacity that ill accorded with his declaration
respecting the state of his constitution, he ex­
claimed—
“ Recollect it ? Holy Virgin ! I have thought
of nothing else since I saw it, excepting the
Signora Bettoni’s debut, and my attention then
was rather a matter of duty, which I owed to
my musical reputation, than a pleasure. Tell
the good father we are ready to see him.”
A short rotund-looking friar, whose face, from
its extreme gravity and stupidity, looked like
that of an owl, was soon ushered into the apart­
ment.
“ Do you come on the behalf of the good
sisters of St. John ?” said the Cardinal eagerly.
“ I do,” said the monk, rather surprised.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 13
“ Respecting the sale of that splendid picture
— splendid, I mean,” said the Cardinal, recol­
lecting that it was not his policy to praise his
intended purchase, “ considering that it is the
production of an obscure modern artist, of no
repute whatever.”
4
4T he affair on which I am deputed, though
an unworthy messenger, to consult with your
Eminence, is no doubt mysteriously connected
with the picture to which your Eminence alludes.
But I was not aware that its sale was resolved
upon.”
4
4Then you have not come to sell the picture,”
said the Cardinal, looking very disappointed,
and giving, at the same time, a significant
glance to his secretary, which evidently said,
4
4I shall turn the bore over to you.” The
Cardinal leant back in his easy chair, and shut
his eyes.
Digitized by Google
14 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
“ I came,11 said the monk, looking grievously
offended at the Cardinal's somnolent attitudes
“ albeit an unworthy messenger, to consult with
his Eminence respecting a most astonishing and
important occurrence: but if his Eminence is
too fatigued to hear my narrative, I had better
retire.”
u Stop, brother!” said the Abbate Maronoelli,
darting a hawk’s-eye glance on the owl-like
monk, from which the latter shrunk, as his
feathered prototype would have done from a
ray of the mid-day sun. u Think not, because
his Eminence’s eyes are outwardly shut, that
their inward sense is not open. Know that, in
all difficult and laborious investigations, which
demand intense mental attention, such is his
Eminence’s uniform mode of abstracting his
mind from all external impressions; whereby
he is the more fully able to concentrate its
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 15
powers on the subject in hand: therefore,
brother, continue your narrative without fur­
ther loss o f time.”
T h e Cardinal uttered a sound, between a
grunt and a snore, which testified his full assent
to the secretary's explanation of his attitude.
Somewhat consoled, or else a little awed, the
monk began again, in the same words and tone;
for he had prepared his discourse beforehand,
and was determined not, or perhaps was unable,
to vary from it, however the circumstances
under which he pronounced it might alter.
u I came here, albeit an unworthy messenger,
to consult with his Eminence, respecting a
most astonishing and important occurrence,
which has just happened at our monastery.
Divers and manifold opinions have sprung up
among our brotherhood touching the event.
I myself opine, in common with many others,
Digitized by Google
16 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
that the affair savoureth of the miraculous;
while a certain portion of our holy community,
relying upon their gift of carnal wisdom, sug­
gest that the alleged appearances are the result
of human fraud. Others, again, hold, that the
matter is an artifice exceedingly puzzling, and,
indeed, altogether unaccountable. That some
one of these doctrines will prove to be the true
one, I entertain but little doubt; and in insti­
tuting a comparison between my own opinions
and-----”
“ My good brother,” said the secretary, de­
termined to cut short this dreadful harangue,
“ with all possible deference to the opinions of
the fraternity of St. John, of whose wisdom
their ambassador is a very sufficient specimen
and proof, I would humbly request you to
relate the facts of your communication, before
you favour me with your comments.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 17
“ Well, then,” said the monk, rather pettishly,
“ it was on the eighth of last month, in the
present year of our Lord, 1771, that St. John
the Baptist— praised be his name!— first made
his appearance in the Nunnery of St. John.”
The Abbate Maroncelli’s first emotion on
bearing of this astounding visit was actual terror.
He thought he was conversing with a madman;
and he gazed with some anxiety on the monk’s
lace. But no— every line and feature of that
unmeaning disk indicated solemn stupidity, but
nothing of insanity. His next idea was that
the whole affair was an attempt, by some mis­
chievous people, to mystify the Cardinal and
himself; and that this weak-headed monk,
having been previously hoaxed himself, had
been selected as a proper tool for the purpose.
Indignant at such a supposition, he composed his
features into an aspect of great severity and
said—
Digitized by Google
18 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ I am unwilling to think, that you would
knowingly lend yourself to the perpetration of
this insult on his Eminence; but remember that
in these sacred matters, the absence of due care
and pious caution is in itself a crime, and might
draw down upon you a portion of that condign
punishment which will assuredly overtake the
original authors of this farce.”
“ Farce indeed 1” retorted the monk, u some
of the most learned and pious brethren of our
monastery, whose wisdom your Reverence has
just now admitted, think that the incident more
resembles a sacred mystery or morality, than
a farce. But be it farce, or mystery, we
are neither (to use a profane comparison)
authors, actors, nor even spectators, with the
exception of two of our brethren, who were
called in by the holy sisterhood to witness the
vision.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 19
T h e Abb&te Maroncelli mused fora moment :
he saw that he should gain nothing by brow­
beating the monk, so he determined to restrain
his temper, and sift the matterwith patience.
a Nay, brother,” rejoined he in a milder tone,
“ be not offended. I was but fearful that you
had been imposed upon by some impious and
malignant persons. Prithee give me an exact
and detailed account of the manner in which
this extraordinary vision first appeared to the
sisterhood of St. John.”
u It was on the first Monday of last month
the 8th of July, the Signora Erminia, his
Eminence’s niece, whom the Convent have the
honour ofeducating, was walking in the Convent
garden, about twilight. She stooped to tye up
a rose, which had been trod down. On rising^
she saw the holy Baptist standing at the top of
the gravel walk, about ten yards before her.
Digitized by Google
20 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
She was much frightened; but the Saint smiled
graciously, and bidding her, in a sort of chaunt,
not be frightened, told her to repair to the same
spot on the morrow evening, an hour after
vespers. He then disappeared.”
The Abbate counterfeited a patience which
he certainly did not feel, and mildly enquired,
eyeing the monk all the time with a glance
which would have done honour to the best prac­
titioner in Westminster Hall, u How was it, that
the Signora Erminia knew that the figure she
saw was St. John the Baptist?”
“ That is the most wonderful part of the
whole story,” said the monk; “ the vision so ex­
actly resembled the picture of St. John in the
Chapel— you know the painting, I think, father,
— the same which his Eminence just now
talked of buying— that the Signora thought the
canvass had walked out of the frame. The
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 21
young lady was a good judge of the likeness,
for she always exhibited a singular preference
for this picture, over all the other shrine3 and
images in the convent, and always performed
her private devotions before it.”
“ So !” said the secretary scornfully, “ a silly
child of fourteen or fifteen, is allowed by the
sensible sisters of St. John, to be wandering
about the Convent garden, when she ought to
have been counting her beads in the chapel, or
sleeping in the dormitory. She falls asleep,
very naturally dreams of the picture she is al­
ways looking at by day, wakes, finds herself
alone, and is excessively frightened. She then
very naturally tells her story, which like all
dreams is exceedingly incoherent and unmean­
ing, to the Superior, which she very strangely
believes. Upon this small egg, the pious and
learned brothers of St. John condescend to sit,
Digitized by Google
22 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
until they have hatched from it a monstrous
bird, which appears to have flown away with
their understandings.”
“ Judge us not,” said the monk, “ until you
hear the sequel. The Prioress did not at first
believe the story. She reprimanded the Sig­
nora, and bade her dismiss such profane non­
sense from her head; but the other persisting
in her account, she, rather to calm the young
lady’s agitation than from any other motive,
repaired to the spot at the hour, accompanied
by the Signora, and half a dozen of the sis­
ters----- ”
“ And saw nothing,” said the Abb&te, im­
petuously.
“ Alas! reverend brother, sorry am I to con­
tradict you ; but when they arrived at the spot,
there they saw St. John, exactly as he is repre­
sented on our altar-piece— a comely young man,
Digitized by Google
OR* THE CHARLATAN. 23
with a beautiful and smiling face, clothed in a
raiment of goats’ hair, which, flung around his
body, pardy disclosed his shoulders and legs,
both of which limbs seemed framed after a
sweet and angel-like fashion. His garment
shone with a mild white light, and round his
bead appeared a glory of green fire.”
“ A glory of green fire! grant me patience,”
muttered the secretary. “ Well, brother, what
then?”
“ Sl John then waved his hand, and chaunted,
in a low sweet tone—
“ 4Erminia stay,
The rest away.*
When the Prioress, and the other sisters, were
so frightened, that they ran away, and tumbled
over one another into the refectory, which opens
into the garden.”
“ And the Lady Erminia ?”
Digitized by Google
24 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
“ Remained behind; having seen the Saint
before, she was not so frightened as the rest.”
The monk then went on to state, that the saint
disappeared as before, repeating his injunction to
the Signorina to repair again to the spot on
the next evening. It seems the Prioress then
laid the case before her confessor; and he ad­
vised that she should again repair to the spot
with the Lady Erminia, but accompanied also
by two of the stoutest brethren in the monas­
tery. The same scene appears to have been
repeated, with this slight variation, that when
the Saint espied the brethren, he waved them
indignantly off, and shook his head, until the
green glory appeared like a flame. Daunted
at this appearance, they hesitated some time
what steps to take. At last they summoned
courage to rush up to the spot where the figure
appeared to be standing, but before they could
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 25
reach the place, it had vanished. They searched,
but could find no traces of any human being.
The failure of this attempt to detect any bodily
agency in the transaction, gave a great blow
to the anti-miracle party; while the spirits of
their antagonists were proportionally elated.
They strongly deprecated any repetition of such
impious efforts, and fervently prayed that the
ridiculous and sacrilegious attempt which had
been already made, to lay violent hands on the
Saint, might not draw down divine vengeance
on the convent. Erminia was of course looked
upon with great veneration, and expected
punctually to attend any appointment which
St. John might vouchsafe to make with her.
Reports of the miraculous apparition of St.
John, in the gardens of the convent dedicated
to his name, soon began to fly about the neigh­
bourhood ; and the Prioress was much puzzled
as to the style in which she ought to frame her
VOL. i. c
Digitized by Google
26 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
answers to the numerous queries, which were
daily put to her on the subject. She was fully
alive to the reputation, and perhaps profit, which
would probably accrue to the convent from the
authentication of such an extraordinary miracle.
Moreover, she had seen the saint herself with
her own eyes— had seen him elude the grasp of
his intended captors, and vanish into thin air.
She firmly believed in the reality of the appear*-
ance; but still she hesitated to publish her un­
qualified belief to the world. The age was
violently sceptical. The nineteenth century may
be indifferent to religion; but the latter end of
the eighteenth was openly, and, if the expression
may be allowed, ostentatiously infidel. And so
much does the spirit of the age affect even
those, who are most opposed to its principles,
and farthest removed from its influence, that the
Prioress hesitated to take upon herself the re­
sponsibility of recognizing the miracle. She
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CH ARLiTAK. 27
iastinctively felt, th a t the dignitaries of her
Church would be ra th e r embarrassed than
pleased at the even t. In this juncture, she
determ
ined to state th e circumstances to some
prelateofhigh ran k, a n d act upon the authority
ofhisadvice. T h e n ear relationship of Erminia
tothe Cardinal, naturally pointed him out to the
Prioress as the proper person, to whom recourse
ought to be bad on the present occasion; but
not particularly liking to perform the mission in
her own person, she applied to the monks of the
adjoining monastery, one of whom, with the
permission of his superior, readily undertook
the office.
We have mentioned that the Cardinal, whose
interest in the monk’s business had entirely
ceased, when he found that the latter was not
empowered to enter into any negociations re­
specting the sale of the coveted altar-piece, had
sank into his easy chair, and assumed a som-
c 2
Digitized by Google
28 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
nolent appearance. From this state he par­
tially roused himself, and although his eyes were
still closed, a profane person would have sus­
pected, from sundry regulated bobbings of the
head, and tappings of the fingers, that his Emi­
nence was internally rehearsing a song. To­
wards, however, the end of the monk’s narra­
tive, his attention or rather curiosity had been
excited by the sharpness and impatience of his
secretary’s tone. He gradually opened his eyes,
and raising himself to an upright position in his
chair, began to listen to the dialogue.
“ Be assured, my brother,” he heard his
secretary say, “ that the holy St. John, to whose
name be all honour and glory, hath no part in
these proceedings. To my mind they resemble
rather the machinations of an evil spirit; not
that I would allow you for a moment to suppose
that you have actually seen any supernatural
appearance. These are not times when demons
Digitized by Google
Or, the ch ar lata n . 29
are permitted to assault and tempt the outward
man with their visible presence. But I fear
much, that such a spirit as I speak of hath
insinuated itself into your hearts, and deluded
your brains; rendering you an easy prey to
human imposture; puffing up your souls with
vain imaginations, until ye conceive yourselves
worthy of divine intercourse with an immortal
angel; you, who ought to deem yourselves tod
happy when allowed to grovel in the dust before
his shrine.”
The Cardinal saw that his secretary had,
somehow or other, achieved a victory over the
frightened monk, and, still retaining some spite
against that individual for the disappointment
which the latter had innocently occasioned him,
he thought it a good opportunity to join in the
farther discomfiture of the already conquered
enemy.
u For vain imaginations,” quoth he, “ I know
Digitized by Google
80 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO S
of no remedy so simple and efficacious as long
continued and diligent fasting: eh, Maroncelli T *
and he glanced at his secretary, to ascertain
whether he was proceeding after an orthodox
fashion; and being encouraged by an approving
look, he continued, with increased confidence
and severity.
w Wherefore, my son, do thou thyself, together
with all thy brethren at St. John’s, abstain from
all animal food during the next six weeks;
excepting the healths of any of the weaker
brethren, (among whom you cannot rank your­
self,) my son, shall imperiously require it. Touch
not at your meals any kind of vinous liquor,
however diluted with the simple element. Spare
not the frequent use of the scourge, and rise
three times every night, repeating, during each
vigil, such a number of credos and paternosters
as your superior shall judge necessary. Depart,
my son, depart in peace.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THIS CHARLATAN. SI
“ Bat what answer,” said the monk, quite
aghast at this strange mode of solving the
Prioress's doubts, “ but what answer shall I
return the Prioress?”
The Cardinal looked doubdngly at the secre-
taiy, as if to inquire the answer; but the latter,
who saw that it was impossible, by mere casual
prompting, to enable his master properly to
support his part, determined to close the scene.
“ Depart, my brother, depart in peace; fail
not to macerate and mortify your outward
bodies, according to his Eminence’s behests;
so shall your inward spirits be purified and
exalted.”
The monk was very reluctant to retire: he
was utterly amazed at the sentence which the
Cardinal had pronounced. He could not con­
ceive how the nuns had committed a crime in
involuntarily beholding a spectacle, which had
caused them so much terror and uneasiness:
Digitized by Google
32 COUHT CA0L1O8THO t
still less could he comprehend, why, supposing
them to have been guilty of some offence, they
should be allowed to expiate their sins by the
vicarious suffering of his brethren and himself.
It seemed strange to him, that those who had
seen the apparition, and vouched for its existence,
should get off scot-free, while those, who had
only heard of it through them, should be thus
cruelly punished.
Fain would he have argued the point a little
longer; but the Cardinal and the secretary re­
newed their cry of “ Depart in peace,” in full
duet, until he was obliged to make his obeisance,
and retire.
After the monk had left the apartment, the
Abb&te Maroncelli recounted to the Cardinal
the strange story which he had just heard. It
amused the prelate 60 much, that he bitterly
regretted that he had not listened to the original
narrative. He was delighted at the incident;
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 33
for three reasons: first, because it was connected
with the picture, the acquisition of which, at
the present moment, formed the primary ob­
ject of his thoughts; secondly, whilst it was
extravagant enough to afford entertainment,
it was mysterious enough to provoke his wonder,
and therefore well calcu&ted to relieve the
habitual ennui under *which the Cardinal, like
all idle and imaginative people, laboured; and
thirdly, it evidently plagued and embarrassed
his secretary, whose superior abilities, although
he was quite aware of their value, and felt the
impossibility of dispensing with their guidance*
he could not altogether pardon.
“ Nay, my son,” said he, with an air of af­
fected benignity and moderation, “ methinks
you are too harsh with these poor brethren.”
Maroncelli disdained to convict the Cardinal
of inconsistency, and to remind him that he
himself had but five minutes ago enjoined the
c 8
Digitized byGoogle
34 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
monk to perform penance. He calmly observed,
“ I presume your Eminence does not believe in
the reality of what these silly sisters fancy them­
selves to have seen.”
“ Truly, Maroncelli,” maliciously replied the
Cardinal, “ I will not hazard any rash decision;
here are nearly a dozen, living, impartial, credible
eye-witnesses, who all depose to the same fact,
agree in their testimony, and have no apparent
motive in lending themselves to any deception.
There are many miracles performed by saints
occupying a distinguished place in our calendar,
which have been received by our Holy Church
upon much slighter evidence.”
“ Had the whole convent come forward as
eye-witnesses, it would not have increased the
credibility of the story, and would only have
aggravated the scandal.”
“ Why, my son, you are as sceptical as the
English heretic who wrote a book to prove, that
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 8 5
the man who saw a miracle, ought rather to be­
lieve that his senses were deceived, than that
the laws of nature had varied from their ordi­
nary course.”
A moment’s reflection will convince your
Eminence of the infinite detriment, which such
occurrences as the present, are likely to inflict
upon the Church. The story, which this sense­
less friar has just told, bears upon its face every
mark of imposture. But were it otherwise,—
were the evidence of its truth so strong, as to
produce upon our minds the awful conviction
that one of the immortal band of Heaven had
really manifested himself to us, humble dwellers
on the earth, the interest of our Church would
require us to bury the event in profound silence.
The present age has produced Voltaire, Helve-
tius, and a whole crowd of minor infidels— it is
indeed a stiff-necked and unbelieving genera­
tion. Proclaim a miracle to our modern race
Digitized byGoogle
36 .COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
of philosophers and free-thinkers, and though
one arose from the dead to attest it, they would
give it no credence. They would only use it as
an instrument to cast discredit upon those
miraculous occurrences, which were received by
the piety of former ages, as your Eminence
observes, upon much slighter testimony.’*
“ You remind me/* said the Cardinal, who,
while he was quite convinced of the sound policy
of his secretary’s views, took a puerile pleasure
in keeping up his teazing opposition, “ you
remind me of one of the French kings, who
conceiving certain miraculous cures worked at a
particular tomb to be productive of scandal to
the Church, shut it up, and forbad the per­
formance of farther miracles. Did not some
profane wit write over the gates—
4
1Defendu par le roi au Dieu
De fture miracle en ce lieu”?
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THR CHARLATAN. 87
The secretary resolved to adopt another mode
of managing the Cardinal.
4
4As the likeness," said he, “ which the nuns
fancied the fictitious apparition bore to the
altarpiece in their chapel, seems to me one of
the strongest points of the imposture, the sooner
this unlucky picture is got rid of, the quicker
the whole affair will be forgotten. Your Emi­
nence could not act a kinder part to the sisters,
than by proposing to purchase the painting at
the price you have already named. I will
pledge myself to induce them to accept the
offer.
The Cardinal seized the bait.
“ True, very true,” said he, “ 1 commend
your policy, and the picture will now be doubly
interesting from the legend connected with it.”
“ But your Eminence will observe,” said the
secretary with a significant smile, “ that every
Digitized byGoogle
38 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO
trace of superstition respecting the picture, must
first be eradicated from the minds of the sisters;
or you might as well ask them to part with the
convent.”
“ True— true,” replied the Cardinal; " my
son, I never for a moment doubted either your
zeal, or your ability to serve the true interests of
the Church; any little objections I may have
made, were thrown out rather for the purpose of
unfolding your reasons, and developing your
plans, than with a view of offering them any
serious opposition.”
It was finally arranged between the Cardinal
and his secretary, that the latter should set off
instantly for the convent of St. John, which was
situated a few miles from Rome, with full powers
to examine into the miracle, to detect and
punish the authors of the imposture, and above
all to effect the purchase of the picture.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 3*
C H A P T E R II.
THE APPARITION HUNT.
A r r iv e d at the convent, the Abbate Marbncelli
immediately commenced a vigorous investiga­
tion of all the circumstances connected with the
singular imposture which had been played on
the sisters of St. John. His first care was to
examine the picture which the apparition was
declared so minutely to resemble.
The freshness and brilliancy of the colours
proved that it had been recently painted; other­
wise, from the skill with which the artist had
Digitized byGoogle
40 COUNT CAGLI08TR0:
imitated the style of Raphael, it might have
been mistaken for a genuine production of that
great master. Indeed, had the tone of the
colouring been properly lowered, and the whole
picture been judiciously smoked and dirtied, it
would no doubt have been joyfully purchased at
the price of thousands, by some wealthy idolater
of the old masters. Perhaps some such idea
had suggested itself to the Cardinal, and ac­
counted for his eagerness to obtain the work.
Both figure and face were graceful and beau­
tiful in the extreme; but unsuited in the Ab-
b&te’s opinion to the character they were in­
tended to represent. He thought the expres­
sion savoured more of mortal voluptuousness
than of celestial love. “ Fitter for a Ganymede
than a St. John,'1 muttered Maroncelli, as he
contemplated the picture, and resolved that no
time should be lost in transferring it to the
Cardinal's gallery. Having thus made himself
Digitized by Google
Oft, THE CHARLATAN. 41
intimately acquainted with the features deli­
neated in the painting, he repaired to the ad­
joining monastery, and accurately scrutinized
the visage of each individual monk; but not the
smallest glimpse of resemblance could he dis­
cover. He returned to the nunnery, and ex­
amined the face of every nun, but without any
better success. He enquired whether any re­
pairs had been lately executed on any part of
the monastery, and whether, if for that, or any
similar purpose, workmen or strangers of any
description had been lately admitted ?
To all these, and many other questions of the
same nature, a positive distinct negative was
returned. The Abbdte ran about the monas­
tery, from place to place, like a staunch hound,
when he cannot get upon the scent; but all in
vain. No trap door, or secret passage, could he
detect Not an outlet or aperture could he
find, on which he could reasonably hang a sus-
Digitized by Google
42 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO X
picion. Finally he examined an old man, who
occasionally officiated as gardener* He was
retained in the service of the convent, partly out
of charity, partly out of regard to his skill as a
florist* He was long since past his labour; but
his horticultural knowledge was considerable,
and he served to direct and regulate the vigorous
but unscientific diggings and rakings of the lay-
sisters.
The Abb&te questioned him with regard to
his knowledge of the singular transaction which
had lately distracted the convent. But he evi­
dently knew nothing but what be had learnt
from the sisters, who worked under his super­
intendence in the garden. The Abb&te then
asked him whether he had lately had any visitors
at his cottage, and above all, whether he had,
on any pretext whatsoever, admitted any person
4o the garden of the convent.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 4$
The old man answered both questions with
simplicity, and in the negative.
Maroncelli thought be remarked a consider­
able degree of nervous agitation about the old
man, as he responded to the latter queries; but
shrewd and suspicious as he was, he could not
deny to himself that the old man’s agitation
more probably arose from the timidity of old
age, than from the confusion of conscious guilt.
The supposition that the hoary decrepid old man
had himself enacted any part in die imposture,
was of course preposterous. Neither had
he intended to suppress any circumstances
which he believed of consequence; but tired
and frightened at the number of questions put
to him, he had answered some in the negative
to stop farther enquiry. For instance, he never
stated, that for the last three weeks he had
entertained his nephew, a youth of about eigh-
Digitized by Google
44 COUNT CAGLI08TR0 !
teen, who had been apprenticed to an engraver
at Florence. The lad, who, by the by, had
disappeared two days previous to the Abbates
arrival, suddenly entered his cottage one day,
and after relating that the cruelty of his master
at Florence had forced him to abscond from his
apprenticeship, he begged his uncle for food
and shelter, until he could find some employ­
ment.
His old relative consented. His cottage was
isolated; no visitor ever came near it The old
man suffered from loneliness; besides, the ser­
vices of the youth might be useful to him. In
fact, he had, on one or two occasions, when
indisposed himself, and when he knew all the
sisters were engaged at their devotions, sent
Giuseppe, dressed in his own attire, into the
garden to finish some work, which required
more strength than he could exert in his languid
state. But then he had very strong reasons for
Digitized by C
jO
oqle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 45
believing that his nephew was not in any man*
ner concerned in the affair under discussion.
There was nothing prophetic or supernatural
about the lad’s appearance; nor did he, to his
knowledge, resemble St. John. Besides, he
did not feel assured, that he himself might not
be censurable for sheltering a runaway appren­
tice.
He saw that any piece of information afforded,
produced a host of fatiguing consecutive queries,
while complete ignorance on anypoint terminated
the investigation: and, with the cautious and
cunning selfishness of old age, he determined
not to answer questions which he felt certain
would produce no profit to himself^ and which
he could not persuade himself were of any im­
portance to those who put them.
A simple negative will often baffle the most
acute cross-examination. Let the advocate
touch but the slightest clue; let him grasp but
Digitized by Google
46 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
the smallest thread of the tangled matter, and
he will quickly unravel the most intricate knot
But a flat denial of all knowledge of the affair,
cuts away the ground on which the examinant
must place his instruments of investigation.
State to an arithmetician three terms of a pro­
position, and he will tell you the fourth. Show
a naturalist a single bone, and from it he will
infer the structure, habits, and history of the
animal from which it is taken. Allow the ma­
thematician his postulata, and he will push his
deductions to the verge of infinity; but where
all the points of a problem are unknown, CEdi-
pus himself could not discover the solution.
Baffled, but not disheartened, the Abb&te
renewed his efforts. He requested to be shown
the exact spot in the garden where the appari­
tion had disappeared. A small cluster of low
bushes, quite incapable of concealing a man,
was pointed out The Abbate was about to
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 47
tu*.n sway, when he was struck with the dead
and withered state of the leaves of the centre
bush. This circumstance, slight as it was,
immediately arrested his attention. He plunged
into the middle of the shrubs, and soon dis­
covered that the withered bush was not fixed
in the earth, but that a large circular hole,
of about four feet deep, had been dug beneath
it, while the loose bush, together with a little
furze, and other rubbish, had evidently been
placed over the mouth of the hole for the pur­
poses of concealment. The Abb&te pointed out
the circumstance, with bitter derision, to the
nuns, who were covered with confusion.
The suspicions of the Abbate as to the im­
posture were now made evident. But there
still remained circumstances which could not
be satisfactorily explained. An outrage of the
most daring and profane cast, which would
subject the offender, if discovered, to severe
Digitized by Google
48 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
punishment, had been committed, without any
imaginable motive, except levity of disposition,
and recklessness of consequences. Above all,
the perfect and exact likeness, which the nuns,
one and all, declared to exist between the
apparition and the picture in the chapel, ex­
ceedingly puzzled the Abbate. That an ideal
portrait should happen to resemble any living
personage was an extraordinary coincidence,
but that this particular individual should chance
to come to the immediate vicinity of the pic­
ture,— that he, and nobody else, should become
acquainted with the similarity,— and that he
should then avail himself of the circumstance
for the purpose of playing such an useless,
profane, and dangerous prank,— constituted a
series of contingencies which was utterly in­
credible.
The Abbate now turned his attention to his
patron's niece, and elicited from the nuns, with
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 49
his usual ability, the minutest details respecting
her disposition, habits, and conduct.
When the Cardinal placed his niece as a pupil
at the Convent of St. John, an establishment
noted for the severity of its discipline, everybody
wondered at his choice. The fat and lean tine
in Pharaoh's dream were not more different
than the Abbess and the Prelate: for, to do the
latter justice, he was not one of those persons
who, luxurious themselves, preach mortifica­
tion and abstinence to the rest of the world.
On the contrary, after enjoyment in his own
person of a feast, his next greatest pleasure
was to witness its enjoyment by others. But
when it was discovered that the convent con­
tained among its inmates some nuns who were
great proficients in the musical art, the world
began to comprehend his motive, though they
still continued to be surprised at his choice.
For it was anticipated, that the ascetic edu-
vol. i. d
Digitized by Google
50 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
cation of the convent would create a character
very distasteful to the Cardinal. Nevertheless,
the gloom and austerity of Erminia’s precep­
tresses did not produce the expected effects on
her young mind. In vain an old nun, with a
peaked and purple nose, and a mouth whose
corners were drawn down into the sourest of all
possible angles, talked to her by the hour to­
gether of disease and death, of the certainty of
dissolution to age, of its possibility to youth.
How make a girl, whose pulses were throbbing
with the electric blood of fifteen, comprehend
the nature of death? In vain did her lugu­
brious instructress describe the world as a den
of misery, governed, or rather desolated, by a
sex whom she likened to ravenous lions, prowl­
ing about, and seeking whom they might de­
vour. Erminia only felt the more contented
with her present retreat. In vain did the
Abbess, under the name of the flesh-pots of
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 51
Egypt, proscribe all the ordinary comforts of
life. In vain did she stigmatize the most
innocent games and recreations, as profane and
scandalous diversions. Erminia needed not
either. With such perfection of youthful health
was she endowed, that mere existence was a
luxury. A simple breath of the fresh fragrant
air of morning, afforded her a sentiment of
enjoyment, which a Sybarite might well have
envied. She sighed not for the pleasures of a
world she had never known, or heard of only
to abhor. She pined not for amusement; in
fact she had plenty. It was a sufficient excite­
ment to her unworn susceptible mind, to tend
the flowers in the garden— to watch the pro­
gress of their growth and beauty, and to lament
their decay. Then there were the pictures in
the chapel— there was the Virgin Mary and
her child, and, above all, the picture of the
youthful St. John.
d 2
Digitized by Google
52 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
Before the latter picture had arrived at the
convent, she had been very fond of contemplating
the Holy Mother and Child; but now the
picture of St. John absorbed all her devotion.
She could never sufficiently admire the youth­
ful saint,— the speaking eloquence of those
soft dark eyes, that seemed to say a thousand
things, and say them all for her!— The ineffable
tenderness of that beautiful half smile, which
just curved his lips,— the exquisite symmetry of
those sweet limbs, which seemed indeed formed
after God’s own image.
No sun-worshipper ever watched his rising
divinity with half the quiet adoration and intense
contentment with which Erminia for hours con­
templated her favourite saint In vain did the
Abbess banish, as she thought, every trace of
pleasure from her dominion. Every moment,
not spent in prayer and sleep, was to Erminia
spent in amusement, and even the performance
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 53
©
f her religious exercises gave her the delight­
ful sense of satisfied duty. Was she not happy
— supremely happy? Yet the convent walls,
that held the contented Erminia, were not in
truth so beautiful or so romantic as the “ horrid
and unrelenting shrines” which surrounded the
wretched Eloisa. Alas ! when will men learn
that happiness must be found in their own
minds ? When the pleasures they already
possess cease to delight their diseased spirits,
they never suspect that the fault is within— in
their own blunted susceptibilities, but strive,
with frantic eagerness, to increase their external
means of enjoyment; forgetful that the heart,
soured by disappointment, and scarred with
ancient wounds, carries with it, through every
change of scene, its own gloomy atmosphere;
and, though transported to the brightest bower
in paradise, would still find all blank and
barren.
Digitized by Google
54 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
But a change had come over Erminia since
the affair of the apparition. She became me­
lancholy, absent, and moping. She no longer
contemplated her favourite picture with her
usual adoration. Nay, some of the nuns de­
clared, that she could not even behold it with­
out shuddering; and one went so far as to aver,
that she had actually found the young lady
stretched on the cold flags before the mysterious
picture, in a trance or fainting fit. None of
these circumstances,— not the smallest or most
insignificant, were lost upon the Abbate.
Without mentioning his own suspicions or con­
jectures to the sisters, he immediately subjected
Erminia to a series of searching and long pro­
tracted examinations;— with what result will be
seen in the following pages.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 55
CHAPTER III.
THE SECRETARY’S REPORT.
T he Cardinal was sitting alone in his library
not poring over the works of the Fathers, but
conning over the score of a new opera; while
ever and anon he hummed a bar, and then
refreshed his vocal pipe from a decanter of
choice wine, which stood on a small table beside
him.
A valet announced the return of his secretary.
The Cardinal intimated that he should like to
see him as soon as possible.
Digitized by Google
56 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Without waiting either to take refreshment,
or even to divest his apparel of the traces of
the journey he had just finished, Maroncelli
made his appearance.
" Welcome, Maroncelli; have you got the
picture ?”
“ I have, your Eminence.”
“ Thrice welcome ! my incomparable secre­
tary, you are an universal genius, as skilful in
executing a negotiation as wise in devising the
plan;— as cunning in judging a picture as learned
in composing a sermon.” (The wine and music
had elevated his Eminence’s spirits.) “ But at
what price were you forced to purchase the
gem.”
“ I gave a hundred crowns,” said the secre­
tary, who did not seem inspired with his patron’s
spirits.
“ A hundred crowns !— what, let it go for a
hundred crowns !— the pious excellent old addle*
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 57
heads! I suppose a square yard of painted
canvas was to them a square yard of painted
canvas under all circumstances, no matter
whether done by Raphael, or the village sign-
painter. Good lack! good lack! I wonder
whether they can tell a rose from an onion ? And
where, my son, would you advise me to hang
this admirable production ?”
4
4In the centre of the hottest fire in your
palace,” emphatically replied the secretary.
4
4Maroncelli!” said the Cardinal, looking
aghast, 4
4do I hear you aright ? No man loves
a jest— that is, a seasonable jest on a proper
subject— better than myself; but I do not like
to hear a serious matter treated with levity. My
taste in pictures has never yet been questioned
by the greatest geniuses in Rome.”
“ Heaven is witness, that I am in no humour
for levity,” said^the secretary gravely; “ your
n S
Digitized by Google
58 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
Eminence must prepare yourself for a great
blow.”
The Cardinal clasped his hands together.
“ I foreboded how it would be; you have de­
faced the picture P
“ The picture is the same as when it left the
painter’s easel----- ”
“ Thank God!”
“ My communication relates to your Emi­
nence’s niece, the Lady Erminia.”
“ What of her ?— has she got the small-pox ?—
has her voice broke ? What has happened ?—
speak out man.”
\ The secretary made no answer.
“ Speak out,” cried the Cardinal starting
from his easy chair; “ tell me the worst— is she
dead ?”
“ Would to God she were,” answered the
Abb&te looking upwards; “ better that she had
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 59
died in her sinless innocency, than that she had
lived to fall a prey to the demon of seduction.”
“ You rave, Maroncelli; my niece is in the
centre of the strictest convent in Italy, sur­
rounded by high walls, and by a circle of nuns,
more impregnable than any fortress. What
harm should reach her ?”
u It is natural for your Eminence to hold
this language; but alas! there is no spot of
ground in this bad world, however fenced in
and guarded, which the villainy of mankind,
aided by the malice of Satan, will not penetrate.”
“ You speak riddles,” said the Cardinal,
pacing lip and down the room with agitated
s te p s ; " tell me in plain language what has
beiallen my niece ?”
“ I have satisfied myself,” replied the secre­
tary, “ that the pretended apparition was— I
will not call him the Signora Erminia’s lover—
but a vile daring impostor, who availing himself
Digitized by Google
60 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
of her unsuspecting purity, and the ineffable
folly of her guardians, has contrived to bereave
the unhappy lady of her happiness and inno­
cence.”
“ These treacherous stupid old women shall
answer for it,” cried the Cardinal passionately;
“ I would not educate her in my own palace,
though worse could not have happened there.—
No— for years I have deprived myself of the
society of that sweet child, who brought to me
my departed sister’s image, young and beautiful
even as I knew her in my boyish days; I sacri­
ficed all this, and placed her in yonder accursed
convent, that she might be better and happier
than myself, or than I could make her. And
now what is the result?— but these veiled Jeza^
bels shall answer for it; I will have them all
buried alive!”
“ Your Eminence will pardon me,” calmly
remarked the secretary, “ but I do not think
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 61
you could convict the abbess or her nuns of any
participation in the offence. I believe at this
moment they are wholly unconscious of the
mischief which has occurred. The Signora
Erminia seems the only person who could, ac­
cording to ecclesiastical law, be sentenced to
that awful death.”
The Cardinal wanted an object on which to
vent his passion, *and he found it in this remark
of his secretary. He suddenly stopped short in
his walk, and began with affected composure.—
“ Maroncelli, you know that I entered the
Church not from inclination, but because my
family had the power to make me a cardinal;
whatever may be my disposition, my sense of
honour to my order will always prevent me from
either disgracing or betraying it. I say, it must
be no slight pressure that drives me to do either
of these things; but rather,” continued he,
stamping furiously, “ than sanction the cold-
Digitized byGoogle
62 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
blooded atrocity to which you dare allude—
rather than allow one hair of that girl’s head to
be scathed, I would tear off my cardinal’s robes
in the middle of St. Peter's, and hurl the rags
in the Pope’s face. I was born a man before I
was made a cardinal!
The secretary listened to his excited patron
with a cold marble-like indifference. He was a
man of many talents, and numberless ideas;
but he had only two animating motives— ambi­
tion for himself, and the class to which he
belonged. Far from being affected by the trait
of tenderness which circumstances had thus
developed in a character otherwise so sensual
and selfish,— he looked upon it with infinite
contempt, as an explosion of maudlin tender­
ness. “ Your Eminence,” said he, “ misunder­
stands me, I only stated the law; I never for a
moment contemplated its application to any
party in this unfortunate affair. Even were I
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 63
destitute of pity for the Signora’s extreme
youth and heedless unsuspecting innocence—
were I devoid of sympathy for my benefactor’s
family, I should dread the scandal which would
result to the Church, from the adoption of such
a course; I deprecate all punishment inflicted
on ecclesiastics, or their protegees. It is far more
important to mankind, that the reputation of the
Holy Church should be preserved pure and spot­
less, than that every offence committed by its
ministers should be adequately chastised.”
“ Pooh ! pooh !” cried the Cardinal, “ I wish
my niece’s reputation were assafe as thechurch’s.”
“ Both may be saved by following the plan I
shall mark out. Send the Lady Erminia to
your distant estate at Perugia ”
The Cardinal nodded approbation.
“ Permit me,” resumed the secretary, “ to
remind your Eminence, that near this same
estate, there is a benefice within your gift which
Digitized byGoogle
6 4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
has been sometime vacant; your Eminence has
more than once half promised it to me. I could
take possession, while I superintend the interests
of the Lady Erminia.”
The Cardinal smiled, in spite of his vexation,
as he replied : “ The opportunity you choose is
irresistible; your request is granted. But to
return to our first subject, why do you recom­
mend its destruction ?”
“ By some most mysterious coincidence, this
fatal picture is really and truly the exact portrait
of the impostor, who hath sinned so grievously
against your Eminence. The Lady Erminia
cannot see it without going into fits.”
“ But shall we not thereby destroy all clue to
the rascal’s detection ?”
“ And what would that avail us?” said the
wily secretary; “ I want no discovery — no
detection :— I wish to bury the whole afiair in
the most impenetrable secresy.”
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 65
“ You are right, my son,” said the Cardinal,
with a reluctant sigh, “ I will order the picture
to be burnt, after I have looked at it once more.
Alas ! how one misfortune entails another !”
From this period our story contains no farther
records of the Cardinal.
From an obscure history of the time we can
gather, that, four or five years after the events
narrated in the foregoing pages, the Cardinal
was appointed ambassador from the Pope to his
most Christian Majesty, Louis the Sixteenth,
who had just ascended the French throne: and,
in this capacity, he appears, during his residence
at Paris, to have concluded a match extremely
advantageous to his niece, and a treaty of com­
merce remarkably disadvantageous to hiscountry.
Digitized byGoogle
66 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
C H APTER IV.
THE LOVER’S TASK.
Who has not heard of the p e t it so up ers of Paris ?
Who has not longed to be present in some of
those brilliant saloons, where the costliest inven­
tions and most refined luxuries, that modern art
can create for lavish wealth, formed but the
smallest portion of the scene’s attraction? Where
wit and beauty, genius and rank, philosophy and
opulence, combined their various splendours into
one bright galaxy, beneath whose lustre fashion
seemed to lose her frivolity; and pleasure, freed
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 67
from the incumbrance of folly, displayed fasci­
nations, that might almost have justified the
doctrines of Epicurus. This is no exaggerated
description of the Assembly which was held at
the Hotel de Mirbot. The party consisted of a
score of the highest noblesse of France, together
with some of the most celebrated literary men of
the day. Condorcet, Diderot, Grimm, and
Marmontel, were present; and the rest of the
company apparently inspired by these distin­
guished guests, displayed a degree of wit and
information that seemed almost incompatible
with the indolence and frivolity in which their
lives had been passed. Yet, though the conver­
sation was such as the most fastidious of intel­
lectual epicures might have reckoned a feast, it
seemed to have no attractions for two of the
more patrician guests, who sat somewhat apart
from the rest of the company, heedless of the
brilliant sallies, ingenious reasonings, and lively
Digitized byGoogle
68 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO;
anecdotes, which circulated round the table.
Their inattention was the more remarkable, as
they did not seem to find much excitement in
their own society. One of them, a very lovely
woman of four and thirty, sat listening with an
ennuyee air to the courtly, but vapid compli­
ments, her assiduous cavalier incessantly ad­
dressed to her. “ I cannot divine what could
have induced you, Count,—you, who are the
politest man, in the politest city of the world,”
said the lady, with a smile, ironical indeed, but
so beautiful, that it seemed to captivate her
admirer’s fancy, even more than it wounded his
a m o u r p r o p r e , “ to offer your homage to one,
who, as my good-natured friend, Madame Ver-
neuil, observes, values herself on her rudeness;
talks of her violations of etiquette as so many
titles to your esteem, and challenges for her
defects a respect and consideration, which others
do not presume to claim for their accomplish­
ments.”
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 69
“ I assure you, Marchioness,” returned the
Count D’Ostalis, in some confusion, “ Madame
Vemeuil never mentions your name, but as your
other friends do, with love and admiration ; that
is, at least not to me. Had 9he so sinned against
truth and good taste, I am afraid I should have
lost that reputation for good breeding of which
you speak.”
“ I did not charge you with having listened
to the satire,— and remember, Count, he proves
his guilt who defends himself before he is ac­
cused ; but let that pass”— continued she, scorn­
fully tossing her head, “ and give a categorical
answer to my question.”
“ A h ! Madame,” exclaimed the Count,
“ assuming a sentimental air, and throwinghim­
self into an elaborately graceful attitude— “ can
I assign any other than that which all Paris has
celebrated? But how shall I describe what
painters and poets— ”
Digitized byGoogle
70 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Stop !*
* said the Marchioness, (i if you
utter a word about the irresistible influence of
my charms, or call yourself beauty’s slave, or
address me with any of your Corydon phrases
— if, to use your own words, you do so sin
against truth and good taste: I shall probably
behave much more uncourteously than you did
to Madame Verneuil.”
“ Did ! Madame!” repeated the Count with
an expostulatory sigh.
“ No more of that,” said she imperiously,
“ for I think—yes— I am almost— nay, quite sure
I have come to a resolution to renounce your
friendship.”
“ Gracious heavens!” exclaimed the Count,
with a start which displayed much more elegance
than passion, “ what can have induced such a
barbarous determination? Do you doubt the
sincerity of my devotion ?”
“ Oh not at a ll! or what is the same thing, I
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 71
do not consider it worth while to ascertain its
nature; I only doubt your ability to amuse
me.”
“ I admit my personal unworthiness to hold
that charming office,” said the Count, with an
air of consummate conceit; “ nevertheless, I
hoped, that ray profound admiration, and fervent
desire to please, might atone for my deficiencies;
even as the offering at the shrine receives value
rather from the intention of the donor, than its
own intrinsic richness.”
“ I doubt, whether those who profit by the
shrine would allow your doctrine to be or­
thodox.”
u Ay ! but it is not the priest, but the saint,
to whom I address my orisons; besides, Ma­
dame, to continue my metaphor, if indeed it be
one when applied to you, the sternest divinities
deign to indicate the means by which their
favour may be acquired. Would it not then
Digitized byGoogle
72 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
become the Marchioness de Montolieu to reveal
the mode by which she may be propitiated ?”
“ Well, then,” replied the lady laughing,
“ lest you should inflict on me a third edition
of that insufferable simile, I will apprize you in
one word what constitutes my greatest delight—
novelty. I am tired of everything and every
person that now surrounds me.” (The Count
of course interposed a parenthetical sigh.) “ I
want new ideas, new sensations, new characters,
new pleasures; and if you wish to please me,
you must gratify this desire.”
“ Alas ! Madame, how can I hope to amuse
one whom the present company has failed to
entertain?”
The Marchioness’s eye wandered round the
table as she replied. “ Against Diderot I will say
nothing, he talks even better than he writes; but
then he has offended me: as to Marmontel, he
is a cold, insipid, prating pedant: Grimm’s great
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 73
abilities will not make me pardon his greater
coxcombry; Condorcet’s reasonings are so
close, so exact, so admirable, that they make my
head ache; and as for the rest, they are neither
wiser nor wittier than ourselves, Count.”
“ This admirable criticism, Madame, in­
structs me, delights me, but it also terrifies me.
Yet it is but what I might have expected from
one who was the correspondent of Voltaire, and
whose genius compelled even the republican
Franklin to adopt the language of a courtier.”
“ Miserable man ! do you hope to recommend
yourself by reminding me of my misfortunes ?—
Yes— Voltaire is dead— he had consented to
assist at a soiree to which I had invited all
Paris; but three days before the glorious even­
ing arrived, the patriarch had ceased to exist,
save in his immortal works. Europe lost her
mightiest genius, and my party its chief orna-
vol. i. E
Digitized by Google
74 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
ment Dreadful! And Franklin too !— that
charming old man! he has also left France; oh,
what wisdom ! what w it! Never shall I forget,
Count, the pithy reply he made to you at
Madame D’Olcy’s.”
“ I do not recollect it, Madame,” replied
Count D’Ostalis, with more pique than he had
yet betrayed.
“ Oh ! then, I will recal it to your memory,”
said the Marchioness, with a malicious smile;
“ you will remember, my dear Count, that you
addressed to him one of those graceful flowery
unmeaning speeches with which you so often
favour me, and you concluded by observing,
*what a sublime drama America was acting in
the sight of all Europe/ The admirable Frank­
lin drily replied, ‘ True, but the spectators pay
nothing.’ H a! ha ! Positively, Count, you must
find or invent something or somebody, which is
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 75
capable of filling the vacuum which the loss of
these two great geniuses has left in my imagina­
tion.”
“ I frankly confess the task exceeds my
powers,” replied the Count.
u No matter; I have pronounced the irre­
vocable fiat, and it must be obeyed.”
“ Trembling at my own audacity,” said the
Count, tapping his snuffbox; “ I venture to
ask if the assumption of such absolute sove­
reignty is quite consistent in the admirer of the
republican Franklin ?”
The Marchioness laughed in some confusion,
but soon replied. u There is no liberty, no
equality, no justice, in the relations of the two
sexes. We are either tyrants or slaves, tor­
mentors or victims, deceivers or dupes. In this
delightful conjugation, I choose to be the verb
active: you admit I have the power.”
e 2
Digitized by Google
76 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
The Count slapped the left side of his satin
waistcoat, and exclaimed : “ Ay ! Madam, you
have indeed a right divine over this susceptible
bosom.”
“ Then I will use it,” said the Marchioness,
imperiously clenching her small white hand, as
though in the act of grasping a sceptre; “ and I
shall regard any— the slightest, the most humble
expostulation, as an insufferable infringement
on my indefeasible privilege. We shall meet
this day week at Madame de Breteuil's; shall
we not, Count ?”
“ We shall, Madame, unless I expire under
your despotic rigour in the interval.”
“ Good,” replied the Marchioness, u now
hear me— if, by that time, you have not per­
formed the command I imposed on you, I so­
lemnly promise to forswear your acquaintance,
and vow an eternal enmity. No reply. And
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 77
now let ns listen or appear to listen to the dis­
course which Marmontel is delivering, or he
will write another volume of ‘ Moral Tales* on
purpose to lampoon us.”
“ Marchioness,” said the Count, with the
true flourish of a Frenchman, “ what you com­
mand is impossible; nevertheless you shall be
obeyed.”
Digitized by Google
78 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
CH APTER V.
SEARCH AFTER NOVELTY.
N otw ithstanding the piece of rhodomontade
with which Count D’Ostalis ornamented his
promise; in reality he entertained very little
doubt of his ability to perform it. His own
imagination he conceived to be fertile; and even
if that failed, he felt certain that an inexhausti­
ble supply of novelty might without difficulty be
discovered in the city of Paris. On arriving at
his hotel, he sat down, and endeavoured to
devise some new amusement, some unheard-of
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 79
pastime, which might catch the imagination of
the volatile Marchioness. Nothing could be
easier; but he was astonished to find that his
efforts were not crowned with success. He
turned over in his mind various whimsical plans
for fetes champetres, soirees, and masques.
Some of them, he thought, might even please
his fastidious mistress; but to all of them existed
the fatal objection that they were not new. He
could not imagine a single device or conception,
which had not been put into execution by other
people. Every path had been already trar
versed. Go where he would, think what he
would, mankind had been beforehand with him.
He slapped his forehead, muttered an execra­
tion at his inexplicable dulness, and retired to
bed, at last, in the expectation that sleep would
restore the usual liveliness of his faculties.
The next day he renewed his exertions, but
to as little purpose as on the preceding evening.
Digitized by Google
80 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
He began to lose confidence in his own ori­
ginality; and to regard invention as a more
difficult process than he had hitherto imagined.
As he turned over a book, from which he
had been vainly striving to glean a suggestion,
or plagiarize an idea, his attention was arrested
by the remark, that necessity is the mother of
invention. Self-love grasped at the excuse as
eagerly as a drowning man catches at straws.
w Behold a great truth,” exclaimed he, with
delight; “ this explains the mystery; this
accounts for my dulness ; if necessity alone
can produce invention, no wonder that a rental
of ninety thousand livres should render a man’s
creative 'powers somewhat languid. Truly, I
have not experienced much of that plebeian
evil, necessity. I took the trouble to be born;
and rank, riches, and pleasure, have ever
*since rewarded the exertion. Aha ! I see
my course. I must betake myself to some
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 81
poor devil, who lives by his wits; and a few
lonis will no doubt prove a more efficient in­
spiration to him, than the smiles of my beauti­
ful Marchioness have been to me.”
He applied to men of taste and virtu, to
connoisseurs, actors, and projectors. Their
promises inspired him with the liveliest admira­
tion, but their performances made him ready
to send them to the Basdle. They were even
more hackneyed and common-place than his
own; and the Count perceived that poverty
had not even the solitary advantage which he
erroneously attributed to it. “ I see how it is,”
quoth he, “ there is no terra-incognita in the
world of pleasure. Perhaps, however, men
have been less ardent in the pursuit of truth.
I will address myself to philosophers, and men
of science, and try if they cannot furnish me
with novelty. The Marchioness affects to pre-
£ 3
Digitized by Google
82 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
fer utility to amusement, and will be ashamed
to disapprove of my taste.”
With these views, he repaired to some eminent
scientific men with whom he was acquainted,
and intimated his willingness to contribute a
large sum to the advancement of philosophy,
if they would privately communicate to him
any discovery which they might have in petto,
before it was made known to the public. They
inquired the motive of his request,— and re­
ceiving the Count’s promise, that he would
not reveal their communications to more than
one person, for whose secresy he would be
answerable, they readily laid before him some
important discoveries, which had been lately
made in different departments of science.
With some difficulty the Count was made to
understand their nature, and was extremely
mortified to perceive, in what a very small
addition to the amount of truth already known
Digitized by Google
071, THE CHARLATAN. 83
the present discoveries consisted. He asked if
they were not acquainted with some new art
or invention, which would produce an imme­
diate practical effect on society, and excite the
curiosity and interest of the uninitiated ?
One of the philosophers, who seemed to
guess his feelings, observed: “ The discoveries
which are now submitted to your notice, and
of which you seem to think so little, will,
nevertheless, be sufficient to immortalize my
friend Lavoisier. As for those inventions, which
form epochs in the history of the world, and
change the whole face of society, know that
they are seldom, if ever, the produce of a
single individual. Their first germs are often
the result of chance— often spring up in some
inferior mind, who knows not their value. The
idea is seized, and improved on by some
stronger intellect. In this manner it is trans­
planted, from mind to mind, until it gradually
Digitized by Google
84 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
ripens into some wondrous art, that opens a
new world to man. Such was probably the
origin of printing, gun-powder, and the mari­
ner’s compass. Such an origin, at least, is the
only mode by which we can account for the
inexplicable mystery that envelopes their au­
thors.”
“ Prodigiously learned !” thought the Count,
suppressing a yawn; u but mighty unsatisfac­
tory, to a person who has only two days left to
hit upon a novelty.”
With compliments on his lip, smiles on his
brow, and disappointment in his heart, the
Count bowed himself out of the learned circle,
and ordered his coachman to drive to Diderot
To this celebrated genius the Count related
his adventures, and concluded by requesting
his assistance.
“ Monsieur le Comte,’’ exclaimed Diderot,
laughing, u I will explain the whole affair*
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 85
The Marchioness de Montolieu, having pre­
determined to break with you, has imposed on
you a task, which she knows cannot be per­
formed. With me she has already proclaimed
irreconcileable hostility, under a less colourable
pretext.”
“ And yet, Monsieur Diderot, I have heard
you extolled for your originality.”
“ True, some people have been so complai­
sant, or so witless, as to praise me on those
grounds; but, for myself, I disclaim all pre­
tensions so ridiculous. There is nothing new
under the sun. All that the greatest genius
could do— all that Voltaire did— was to recom­
bine and arrange the ideas of those who have
preceded him, and to adapt them to the wants
and feelings of the age. All novelty is but
oblivion.”
The Count was once more thrown on his own
Digitized by Google
86 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
resources, and once more commenced his re­
searches. A calculating boy gave him hopes
for a moment; but he recollected that his im­
perious mistress hated arithmetic. An infant
musical genius at another time excited his
attention; but then he called to mind that
similar prodigies had been presented to the
Marchioness, and that she had detected the
last to be a dwarf of three times his pretended
age. The Count was in despair— not at the
prospect of disappointing the Marchioness, or
incurring her anger— but at the idea of con­
fessing his inability to satisfy her requisition.
This is worse than a basilisk hunt,’** mut­
tered the baffled Count. “ What sort of
monster would this lovely savage wish me to
procure ? Does she wish me to find a patriot
minister— a virtuous opera dancer— a modest
* See Voltaire’s pretty tale of Z
a
d
ig
.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 87
author— an honest farmer-general— or a reason­
able beauty ? Bali! I am getting as cynical as
herself. A new amusement, forsooth !— Mor-
bleu ! if I had blurted out the truth, after her
own uncivilized fashion, I should have told her
that she had exhausted the pleasures of folly,
and was incapable of tasting the delights of
wisdom. What excuse shall 1 make ? Let me
consider. Madame la Marquise, all novelty is
but oblivion— the difficulty of furnishing this
desideratum, will be in exact proportion to the
acquirements of the individual to whom it is
presented. If, then, I have been unable to
supply the Marchioness de Montolieu, I can at
least aver, in my defence, that I have only
failed where it was impossible to succeed.—
Good— I think that must touch her. Yet I
know not— she is such a tigress—so ferocious—
and yet so beautiful.1’
Digitized by Google
88 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
CH APTER VII.
CONSOLATION AND COUNSEL.
Wearied with the fatigue he had undergone,
vexed at his failure in the frivolous project he
had undertaken, the Count began to think of
abandoning the attempt, and providing himself
with consolation. He had a thousand friends,
who would either have moralized, or rallied him
on the subject; but he had not the least wish
to hear them.
What he wanted was a patient listener, who
could allow him to expatiate on his misfortunes.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 89
This was what the Count d’Ostalis understood
by consolation. Among all bis acquaintance,
he knew but one such person; and he, it will
very readily be believed, was not a French­
man.
Reginald Cleveland was an Englishman of
good fortune, and high family, who had for
some years permanently resided in Paris. The
singularity of his disposition, or rather the
extreme contrast which it presented to the pre­
vailing characters of the nation amongst whom
he was situated, had obtained for him a sort of
notoriety; and his company was much sought,
in the highest circles of the French capital.
Young, (at least his age did not appear to exceed
thirty), rich, handsome, talented, he seemed
formed to enjoy, more keenly than another, the
delights of the gay city, in which he had placed
Digitized by Google
90 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
himself; yet he moved through each scene of
pleasure, as if only to exhibit his indifference.
Possessed of great conversational powers, he
let slip the fairest and most legitimate oppor­
tunities of display; and it was not until point*
edly appealed to, that he betrayed his extraor­
dinary natural eloquence, and extensive range
of information. Was this timidity ? The idea
seemed incompatible with the air of perfect
self-possession which characterized his manner.
Was it excess of pride, that made him disdain
the applause of a petty coterie ? It could hardly
be, for he listened with patience and affability
to the prosiest talkers of Paris. He was the
idol of all the bores ; and it was insinuated
that, to the support of this influential party, he
owed his success in society. With many of the
professed geniuses of the day, he was not quite
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 91
so popular. They admitted his general capacity,
and even allowed him the possession of some
wit, but doubted his taste. They averred that
he had no true relish for intellectual society.
They did not deny that he ostensibly paid his
due quota of admiration]; but they doubted
whether his veneration was sincere. At least,
be appeared languid and unexcited in their
company; nay, one of the exacting wits hinted,
with some indignation, his suspicion, that he
had detected Cleveland exerting himself not to
be bored with some of the most brilliant
society in Paris. Be this as it might, Cleve­
land’s manners were studiously polite. If an
utter indifference to his companions' applause
was at times unpleasantly obvious, he seemed
determined to give no tangible cause for offence.
The same apathy of manner pervaded even hk
demeanour to the fair sex. Though endowed
Digitized by Goo?
92 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
with mental and personal attractions, which, if
skilfully played off, would, in the dissipated
circles of France, have produced conquests
without number, as rapid as that which dictated
Caesar’s celebrated boast, of simultaneously
arriving, beholding, and conquering, Cleveland
seemed unconscious of his powers. When,
indeed, some enterprising dames made such
attacks, as left him no alternative but to fight
or fly, he met their advances with a graceful
and unembarrassed gallantry. But amid his
most pointed attentions, and choicest compli­
ments, there lurked an air of self-possession, so
different from the eagerness of passion, that
the most superficial observer must have seen,
that the occupation was to him what leading a
forlorn-hope is to a soldier, a matter of honour
rather than of inclination. Throughout Paris
he had obtained the soubriquet of the “ English
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 9»
P oco-curanteand in truth the term was not
ill applied; for his want of interest and excite­
ment in the brilliant scenes by which he was
surrounded, could only be accounted for by
supposing, that he secretly entertained that
distaste of the world, and every thing in it,
which the noble Venetian so roundly expressed
to Candide and the Manichean philosopher.
To the apartments of the person whose cha­
racter we have been attempting to delineate did
Count iyOstalis hie, and luckily found their
occupant at home.
“ Pity me, my dear Cleveland,” cried the
Count, throwing himself into a fauteuil, with
every mark of vexation and weariness, “ Stoic
as you are, extend your pity to the most unfor­
tunate of men: I am plunged into the lowest
gulf of despair.”
“ Excuse me, my dear Count,” calmly replied
Digitized by Google
94 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
theEnglishman,with a placid smile; “ but I have
seen you in that condition at least fifty times;
and five minutes afterwards, I beheld you float­
ing like a feather on the surface of an ocean of
frivolity. With your leave, I will on the present
occasion wait that period, and then pity you.”
“ Ah ! how I envy your languid indifference;
doubtless, it is the effect of the sea-coal fires,
amid whose fumes you have passed your youth:
but you have not heard my misadventures.”
“ Nay, I will anticipate them,— the fickle La
Gabrielle has deserted you before she has quite
completed your ruin.”
“ No,” said the Count, very gravely, “ that
is not the present cause of my vexation; La
Gabrielle has indeed basely deserted me, but
that event took place a month ago.”
“ Consequently, you have emerged from the
gulf of despair, into which doubtless you sunk
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 95
ou that distressing occasion, just twenty-seven
days, twenty-three hours, and fifty-five minutes
ago.”
“ A truce to your mocking, and hear my
griefs.”
Cleveland bowed, and composed himself into
an attitude of attention.
“ You know the Marchioness de Montolieu ?”
Cleveland gave a negative nod.
“ Well, it is not necessary you should, to
understand my story. She is the most lovely
tigress in all France. My too susceptible heart,
and so forth— you comprehend?”
MPerfectly,” replied Cleveland.
“ Good !— my inexorable goddess has imposed
on me a task, to which the labours of Hercules
were mere jokes— bagatelles, I assure you.”
“ Indeed !”
u She has enjoined me to discover some
Digitized by Google
96 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
novelty; to purvey something, at once new and
amusing, for her entertainment” And the
Count forthwith related, not without many di­
gressions, all the efforts he had made, and all
the adventures he had encountered, in the pur­
suit of this unattainable phantom novelty. “ And
now,” said he to Cleveland, “ what do you say
to the idea?”
“ Thus much,” answered Cleveland, “ that I
have spent my whole life in the same pursuit
which has occupied your last few hours,— and I
find each succeeding day, and every thing that
it brings with it, more weary, stale, flat, and
unprofitable, than its predecessor. At last,
grown wiser by disappointment, I have desisted ;
and now, I suffer myself to be borne along on the
current of life, without making the smallest ef­
fort to alter my predestined course; well assured,
that whatever persons cross my pathway-—
whe-
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 97
ther simple or sage—whatever events befal my
passage, be they miscalled good or bad, all will
alike leave my mind in the same dull state of
indifference in which they found it.”
The Count, who during the latter part of this
speech had been gazing on the lid of his snuff­
box, now took a pinch, and exclaimed—“ Do
not moralize, my dear friend, but tell me what
course I had better take. She has forbidden
me her presence until I have performed her
behest.”
" You might as well try to pluck a star from
the firmament as essay success.”
u I begin to think so myself: yet when I
undertook the task, it seemed to me as easy as
getting into debt. But advise; what would be
your own conduct under such circumstances ?”
“ I should cut the knot by leaving her task
unperformed, and evade the sentence of banish-
VOL. I. F
Digitized by Google
98 COUNT CAGLIOSTEO :
m ent by disobeying her prohibition; but you
would be very unwise to act in this manner.”
“ W hy so?”
“ W hy should you not avail yourself o f one o f
the happiest o f natural gifts— the invaluable
faculty o f being excited by trifles. N o, Count,
you doubtless sup at the D uke de Fronsac’s to­
night ?”
“ Y e s ; but what o f that ?”
“ Y o u will there m eet a large portion o f the
highest nobility o f France. ‘ In a multitude o f
councillors there is safety,' said the royal sage.
W ithout m entioning the M archioness's name,
propose your difficulty to the aristocratic con­
clave— the question is worthy o f their solution.”
“ Thanks, my dear Cleveland,” said the
Count, squeezing his friend's hand with sincere
gratitude, “ a thousand than ks! I will certainly
avail m yself o f your suggestion. Adieu for the
Digitized byGoogle
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 99
present, w e shall m eet this evening. Adieu,
m y dear friend, a d ie u !”
T h e C ount, who in telling his story had
attained his object in calling, now took his
leave. H e was not a natural born id iot; on the
contrary, he came into the world with a Fair
average portion o f ability. B ut, for m any years,
he had accustomed him self with unwearied assi­
duity to consider trifles in the light o f serious
events, and serious events in the light o f trifles;
until at last he had effectually confounded them,
as Don Q uixote did the castles and windmills.
f 2
Digitized byGoogle
100 C O U N T C A O L IO 8 T R O 2
C H A P T E R V II.
THE DELICATE WAGER.
The D uke de Fronsac belonged to a class o f
characters unfortunately too numerous am ong
the higher ranks o f the French nation before
the Revolution. D ebarred by the despotic
nature o f their governm ent from political occu­
pations, and corrupted by the exam ple o f the
court, many o f the nobles gave themselves wholly
up to libertinism. T h e duke seemed to consider
him self born for no other purpose than to see how
m any women he could induce to transgress the
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 101
law s o f society, and then abandon to shame and
ruin. Seduction was not only the amusement,
but the business o f his life.
T h e D uke de Fronsac had now arrived at a
period o f existence, when age brings shame if
not wisdom,— and the libertine becomes not
only odious, but ridiculous. Y e t time, while it
wrinkled his cheek and benumbed his limbs,
wrought no change in his habits and inclina­
tions. Advancing years still found him engaged
in his disgraceful pursuits. In vain had age
stripped his person o f all pretensions to please;
art was summoned to repair the loss. T h e poor
remains which fifty-six years o f dissipation had
left o f a once handsome face and figure, were
decorated with an anxiety, which would have
made even a court beauty smile. T h e details
o f the toilette were multiplied and elaborated,
until they almost assumed the dignity and im-
Digitized by
102 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
portance o f a scien ce: but when ingenuity had
done her utmost, and the D uke felt, that despite
the exertions o f a whole arm y o f artists, the hand
o f time was too deep to be effaced— that personal
attractions had vanished for e v e r; he desisted
not a jo t from his usual objects, he only varied
his means. T h e resources o f an immense pro­
perty were unhesitatingly lavished on his un­
worthy pursuits ; and what he could no longer
beguile from vanity or passion, he unblushingly
purchased from distress and venality.
T h e D uke de Fronsac was in the habit o f
devoting the last Sunday evening in every
month to a reunion o f his male acquaintance.
It was understood am ong all who had the
honour o f knowing the D uke, that they m ight
on that evening, without any special invitation,
repair to the H 6tel de Fronsac, where they
would be sure to meet with an exquisite supper,
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 103
seasoned with a vast deal o f colloquial inter­
course, carried on in a style that was consi­
derably more am using than edifying. T h e
tone o f the conversation was not, perhaps,
more essentially immoral than that which pre­
vailed in the saloons, where the other sex were
present, b ut it was much plainer. N o doubt
the power o f dispensing with the modern peri­
phrases, with which they were elsewhere forced
to varnish keen and wicked sayings, constituted
one o f the principal attractions o f the evening,
in the eyes o f the wits and rakes o f Paris.
T o a company convened under such auspices,
did C ount D^Ostalis propose the difficulties
under which he laboured; and scorning that
fastidious reserve which some men m ight have
affected, he related without hesitation the pe­
culiar circumstances b y which he was first in­
duced to commence the pursuit, and the penalty
Digitized byGoogle
104 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
to which he was exposed, in case of failure. He
then threw out some intelligibly obscure insi­
nuations, as to the reward he expected to re­
ceive, should his efforts be crowned with success.
What little encouragement he had received to
justify such language, the reader is well aware.
In spite, however, of the reiterated attempts
and solicitations of the party, the Count refused
to divulge the name of his task-mistress; a
piece of delicacy which was truly commendable,
inasmuch as her own husband happened to be
one of the audience. It is a physiological fact,
known to the most ordinary observers, though
unexplained by theologians and philosophers,
that after men have imbibed a moderate portion
of some alcoholic liquor, there is a prodigious
inclination to banter upon any subject which
bears the remotest allusion to the other sex.
It may be conceived that the Count’s tale, and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 105
the serio-comic tone of despair in which it was
narrated, was not calculated to lessen those pro­
pensities. An absolute tempest of witty sayings
began to fall on the story-teller’s head. Every
species of extravagant and ironical remark was
tendered amid unextinguishable shouts of laugh­
ter. Every one broke their joke on the new
Hercules, and the metaphysical Omphale. The
professed wits seemed to have an inexhaustible
subject; and even the dullest, after some pre­
meditation and preparation, discharged their
single shafts at the general butt. The Count
bore the pelting of the pitiless storm with great
courage, or rather he enjoyed the hilarity and
excitement of the moment (although he was its
object), as much as any of the party. He de­
fended himself too with much ingenuity, and
returned some pungent answers to the number­
less bon mots that were launched against him ;
f 3
Digitized by Google
106 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
for, as we have before said, the Count was one
of those who play the fool from choice, and not
from necessity.
At last the shower began to abate. “ Gen­
tlemen,” said the Chevalier de Crespigny, wip­
ing his eyes, “ if after so many brilliant sayings,
it is permissible to utter what is simply useful,
I would recommend our unfortunate novelty-
hunter to apply to Count Cagliostro, who I un­
derstand has lately reappeared in Paris.”
“ What and who is this Count Cagliostro ?’*
enquired Cleveland. “ Every body talks about
him, yet nobody will give me any clear, definite
information respecting him.”
“ Morbleu,” interrupted the Duke de Fron-
sac, <
c that complaint might be made to people’s
conversation on other subjects besides Cagli­
ostro ; but if you want him described, I refer
you to Beaumarchais, who has had, if I mistake
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 107
not, one of his innumerable quarrels with Count
Cagliostro. So, no doubt, he will discuss the
topic with much truth and liveliness. E h !
Beaumarchais,” continued he, arresting the at­
tention of the celebrated author of ‘ Figaro,’
“ Cagliostro, who has not been heard of since
the affair of the necklace,* has, according to the
Chevalier de Crespigny’s report, reappeared in
Paris. Monsieur Cleveland wished to know
who and what he is.”
“ It is a difficult task,” said Beaumarchais,
eagerly seizing the opportunity of calumniating
an old opponent, “ to describe a rogue with so
many disguises. He is, Monsieur Cleveland,
the prince of charlatans— the very Caesar of
jugglers. He is a wonderful alchymist, who has
found out the art of transmuting folly into gold,
and credulity into bank notes. For the trifling
* See note at the end of the third volume.
Digitized by Google
108 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
sum of a thousand louis-d’or, he sold an elixir
of immortality to my friend the Marquis de
Mirepoix, who died last year. He wheedled an
old usurer into lending him two thousand livres.
This sum his Countship received in hard cash,
and by a magic process, converted it into double
the amount in bills of exchange, which he
gratefully presented to the old miser; but lo !
when they became due, if they did not, like the
money of the magician in the i Arabian Nights,’
actually turn into withered leaves, they proved
of quite as little value. Add to these traits,
that the Count has the remarkable faculty of
being invisible whenever the police are in pur­
suit of him; and you will have some idea of the
supernatural gifts of the far-famed Cagliostro.”
“ Bravo!” cried the Duke, “ for a good sharp
stinging libel, I would back Beaumarchais
against any man in France.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 109
“ Ay,” replied the Chevalier, “ bat though
the gentlemen of the long robe say that truth i9
sometimes a libel; nobody will pretend that a
libel is always truth. I will, therefore, take'
upon myself to aver, in spite of some traits
which savour of charlatanism, and give a fair
handle to Beaumarchais' satire, Cagliostro is,
or rather was (for I know nothing of his late
exploits) a most extraordinary personage. His
scientific knowledge was great.”
“ Yes,” said Beaumarchais,“ ifpicking pockets
be a science.”
“ But his acquaintance with events,” persisted
De Crespigny, “ which he could not by any
possible means have witnessed or heard related,
was astonishing. I have heard some of the most
sceptical of my friends confess their belief that
he possessed to a certain extent the powers of
divination.”
Digitized by Google
110 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Assuredly then,” retorted Beaumarchais,
Mif your friends were sceptics in anything, it
was not from want of credulity. The power of
divination to a certain extent! Shade of Vol­
taire ! is it come to this, that one, who was once
admitted to the honour of thy friendship and
correspondence, can now avow his belief of a
certain extent of divination ? If, indeed, the
necessity of believing nonsense be such a press­
ing want in the human breast, that as soon as
one prejudice be expelled, another must be
speedily absorbed, I would devoutly believe in
the celestial pigeon, that brought to Clovis the
sacred oil, wherewith our most Christian kings
have ever since been anointed. If it were the
law of my existence, Chevalier, that my reason
must prostrate itself before a certain number of
superstitions, I would at least select errors ren­
dered respectable by antiquity, and consecrated
Digitized by Google
OR* THE CHARLATAN. I ll
by custom;— not the flimsy impositions of a
modern charlatan* who is still alive to mock
you.”
u Yet the man,” answered the Chevalier,
“ who scoffs at superstition, will sometimes
blindly swallow every prejudice that hatred can
suggest. Alas ! poor human nature ! But you
might have spared your eloquent apostrophe and
tirade, since I never expressed my own belief in
the supernatural powers of Cagliostro, but
merely that of my friends.”
w You mentioned the assertion without repro­
bating its absurdity,” observed Beaumarchais*
“ We are not a l l of us, my good Beaumar­
chais, unable to report a friend's opinion without
a sarcasm,” retorted De Crespigny. " But this
much I will avow on my own behalf that Cagli-
ostro’s means of obtaining secret information
respecting parties who consulted him, was al-
Digitized by Google
112 COUHT CAGLIOSTRO :
most as wonderful as an actual power of divina­
tion would have been.”
“ Was not this same Cagliostro,” asked Count
D'Ostalis, “ remarkable for his success with
women of rank ?”
“ To such an extent,” said DeCrespigny, “ that
the opera girls thought it necessary to intrigue
with him to keep up their reputation for fashion.
Your ex-mistress La Gabrielle was, I believe,
one of his most enthusiastic admirers.”
“ Humph !” said Count D’Ostalis, not look­
ing particularly pleased. At this moment the
Marquis de Montolieu whispered something to
him. His face immediately brightened, and he
exclaimed, “ reserve your taunts for our noble
host, for he was the last swain she deserted.”
“ What!” cried Beaumarchais; “ La Gabrielle
must be getting insane! Has she voluntarily
left the wealthiest man in France, and, I might
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* US
add, the most generous,’* continued he in a low
tone, “ where merit and distress are not appli­
cants.”
“ Yes,” said the Duke, vainly endeavouring
to disguise the air of vexation which he felt
overspreading his face; “ the awful catastrophe
to which you allude has taken place. Luckily,
the fact has happened twenty times before;
therefore I bear it with equanimity, and believe
it the most fortunate calamity that ever hap­
pened to me. Condole with me, if you like;
but it is a misfortune that can give no pleasure
even to my best friends.”
The Marquis de Montolieu smiled, and took
snuff with a triumphant air.
“ Well, Marquis,” continued the Duke, “ you
seem in a hurry to boast of your new acquisi­
tion. I only wish that you may not repent
your success with equal celerity. I, who have
Digitized by Google
114 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
escaped from the fair demon, can pity those
who are about to be subjected to her spell.”
“ You, who have escaped from the fair
demon !” repeated the Marquis. “ You mean,
my dear Duke, that she has escaped from you.
But never mind ! Many thanks for your hopes,
and your pity, which are both, no doubt, equally
sincere; though I do not need either, to enable
me to bear the misfortune of having the finest
woman in France under my protection.”
“ I can safely aver,” replied the Duke, “ that
the most satisfactory moment of my acquaint*
ance with La Gabrielle, was that in which I
bade her adieu.”
“ The fox in the fable said something to the
same purpose,” cried Montolieu, “ but the
world has never believed him.”
“ Hear me, Messieurs !” exclaimed the Duke,
rising with much excitement from his seat.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 115
“ I will propose a toast. To the most perfect
beauty in France, who, secluded from the world,
in the loveliest spot which the province of
Champagne contains, exists only for love, and
the fortunate Duke de Fronsac!”
A shout of laughter followed this announce­
ment.
“ I can easily conceive,” said the Chevalier
de Crespigny, “ that the Duke has found a new
beauty in Champagne.”
“ Yes,” observed one, “ that sparkling wine
suggests such visions.”
“ Drink six more glasses, my dear Duke,”
cried another, “ and you will see two.”
“ Joke as much as you please, gentlemen,”
replied the Duke; “ I have said nothing but
the sober truth.”
Another shout of laughter.
“ Can I,” said the Marquis de Montolieu,
Digitized by Google
116 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
appealing to the party, most of whom had, by
this time drank enough to enjoy the indelicate
dispute: 4
4Can I, either as a philosopher or as
a knight, yield the supremacy of my dulcinea’s
beauty, without some better proof than a loose
assertion, hastily uttered over the wine-table ?”
4
4No— no— certainly not,” was repeated from
all sides.
4
4I will bet you a thousand louis,” cried the
Duke, passionately, 4
4that my unknown beauty
is a thousand times more lovely than La
Gabrielle.”
4
4Done !” exclaimed the Marquis.
The party were in extasy at the bet; and
some of the most inebriated hinted, that both
ladies ought to be immediately produced to the
assembled company, who should, after ocular
inspection, decide on the question of supe­
riority.
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 117
“ N o!” said the Marquis de Montolieu, who
was the proudest aristocrat in France. “ De­
cision by the vote of the majority savours of
republicanism; and France always has been,
and always will be, a monarchy. I will refer
the matter to the arbitration of a single umpire.
Nay, I will be magnanimous enough to select
a discarded lover for the judge. I propose the
Count d’Ostalis.”
“ I shall be most happy,” cried the Count,
with enthusiasm, “ to accept the delicate
office.”
“ Much obliged to you,” answered the Duke;
“ but I distrust the Count’s known predilections;
besides I frankly confess, I deem him too
susceptible a gentleman to enact the part of
Paris. My Helen would not be safe; for, after
having been umpire, he might perchance aspire
to be something more. I propose, as arbitra-
Digitized by Google
118 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO *
.
tor, the English poco-curante, Monsieur Cleve-
land.”
Half a dozen voices eagerly ratified the pro­
priety of the choice.
“ Yes,” said two or three; “ Cleveland for
ever, as a safe judge! Fastidious and indiffer­
ent : all taste, and no passion ! Yes ! yes ! it is
a settled thing.”
“ Pardon me, gentlemen,” observed Cleve­
land; “ the thing is not quite settled. The
consent of one humble individual, insignificant
indeed in himself, but apparently not altogether
unimportant in the present arrangement, has
not yet been asked; and, I am sorry to add,
can never be given. Gentlemen, I will freely
confess, that I entertain a great distaste to the
nature of the bet which has just been made;
and I am sure that, by to-morrow morning, you
will all sympathize with my repugnance. Under
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 119
these circumstances, you will not be surprised
that I should peremptorily decline the office
which has just been conferred upon me.’*
Cleveland's refusal, however, availed him but
litde. The majority of the company had now
become violently excited on the subject. Its
decision appeared to their wine-affected imagin­
ations, the most desirable, the most important,
and the most necessary event in the universe.
Unabashed by the dry and peremptory man­
ner in which Cleveland had couched his refusal,
the party surrounded him,— flattered,— coaxed,
— besought,— wearied him with prayers and
entreaties.
He found himself placed in a position, of all
others the most disagreeable to a naturally
polite and good-natured man : that is, opposing
his own taste and inclination to the wishes of a
whole company. His obstinacy was not equal
Digitized by Google
120 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
to their pertinacity. He yielded, (as thousands
have done before in similar circumstances)
against his own better sense, to the desires of
the majority. The volition of one man can
never withstand the accumulated will of an
unanimous multitude.
“ Have you ever seen La Gabrielle ? 9 in­
quired Montolieu, with eager triumph, of the
over-persuaded Cleveland.
" Yes, frequently.”
“ Where ? How ?” demanded Montolieu.
“ I paid for the sight— but not quite so dearly
as our friends, the Count D’Ostalis and the
Duke de Fronsac, have done. I saw her on
the stage, from the front seat of the orchestra;
and I must own, indifferent as you think me,
I have been frequently tempted to renew the
spectacle.”
“ Ha! you admire her, then?”
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 121
“ I think her the most perfect model of phy­
sical beauty I have ever seen, alive or dead,—
in stone, on canvas, or in flesh.” ?
“ You hear him, Duke,” exclaimed Mon-
tolieu; " you hear your own umpire. In the
excess of my magnanimity, I will let you off
the bet for nine hundred louis.”
“ You had better reserve your magnanimity
for your coming defeat,” replied the Duke.
“ I hear indeed what my umpire says; and I,
in his position, (that is to say, not having seen
the beauty whom I pitt against La Gabrielle)
would be content to echo his opinion.”
“ And when shall the bet be decided ? '
asked two or three of the party.
“ Between this evening,” answered the Duke,
" and the next monthly revel, I will give the
umpire the power of forming a comparative
estimate of the two beauties. Monsieur Cleve-
VOL. I. G
Digitized by Google
122 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
land then, by this day month, will be prepared
to make his award.”
Cleveland reluctantly gave his assent, and the
party broke up.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 128
CH APTER VIII.
CAOLIOSTRO.
T he Count, unlike the rest of the company,
had not taken much interest in the progress of
the bet, nor did he anticipate with much excite­
ment its ultimate decision. His thoughts were
occupied with the suggestions the Chevalier de
Crespigny had let fall. He had taken a private
opportunity to request the Chevalier to inform
him of Cagliostro’s address, and that gentleman
had been good enough to consent. At the
period of Cagliostro’s former appearance in
o 2
Digitized by Google
124 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Paris, he remembered the Marchioness to have
expressed much curiosity respecting that sin­
gular personage, and to have regretted that she
had not taken an opportunity of witnessing his
feats of skill. Early on the morning which fol­
lowed the Duke de Fronsac’s revel, he com­
menced his enterprize.
Cagliostro lodged in the Rue St. Honore: it
was the first floor over a gunsmith’s shop.
Count D'Ostalis mounted the staircase with a
feeling of disappointment at the common-place
appearance of the premises. He knocked at the
door; it was opened by a lacquey, in a genteel,
but ordinary livery. He requested to know whe­
ther the Count Cagliostro was at home. The
lacquey asked for his card, and saying he would
see, left Count D’Orsalis, to his infinite indig­
nation, standing alone on the staircase. He
soon returned with the gracious announcement,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 125
that his master would be happy to see Count
D*Ostalis. The latter followed his conductor,
and was ushered into a comfortable, though
plainly furnished room. He looked round with
great disappointment. The apartment was not
hung with Egyptian or even oriental tapestry,
as he had expected. There were no stuffed
crocodiles, or lizards, or flying fishes; no black
circles ornamented with the signs of the Zodiac,
nor even a parchment scroll inscribed with magic
characters. There were none, in short, of the
ordinary paraphernalia of a modern conjuror. A
few portable bookcases looked as if they had
been introduced by the present occupant. Two
tables also, in the corner of the room, were
covered with chemical apparatus, electrical ma­
chines, and other philosophical instruments.
A door opened opposite to that by which
Count IXOstalis had entered, and a tall remark-
Digitized by Google
126 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
ably handsome man, of about forty years of age,
made his appearance. His figure was athletic,
and unimpaired by the obesity of middle age.
His strong jet-black curling locks of hair, ming­
ling with plentiful whiskers of the same colour,
gave an air of almost supernatural lustre to his
wild, dark, restless eyes. His brow was broad,
prominent, and open,— though not high or ele­
vated : his other features were symmetrical, and
constantly changing their expression, though
most commonly softened with a smile. His dress
consisted of the apparel then fashionable among
the higher ranks, and was remarkably rich and
magnificent.
uAfter all,” thought Count D’Ostalis, “ though
he looks more like one of ourselves than a magi­
cian, the Marchioness would only have laughed
at a conjuror with a false beard and a silver
wand.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 127
The Count D’Ostalis spoke first “ Have I
the honour,'' said he, “ to be in the presence of
the celebrated Count Cagliostro ?”
Cagliostro bowed assent, and motioned his
visitor to be seated, at the same time setting him
the example.
“ Monsieur," exclaimed D'Ostalis, “ I have a
request to prefer, which, considering the form­
ality of my present visit, may appear strange
and ridiculous."
He had been so thoroughly quizzed at the
Duke’s, that he began to be half ashamed of
his mission.
“ Make your request, Count D’Ostalis," an­
swered Cagliostro, in a lofty and yet melodious
voice; “ there is nothing strange or ridiculous
to me. I have burrowed to the hearts of the
eternal pyramids, and there found dried ashes
nd preserved snakes; I have penetrated to the
Digitized by Google
'128 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
centre of the most brilliant courts in Europe,
and reptiles were there also. In the loveliest
Oasis of sandy Arabia, I found a golden, glorious
fruit, the same as that which tempted our first
parents: I cut the glowing, blushing rind, and
found a grub at the core. I have dissected the
Grand Master of the Maltese Knights, and
foundworms there too. Make your request then,
Monsieur,— make it without hesitation: there is
nothing strange or ridiculous to me.”
“ Good,” thought the Count, " this will do—
this charlatanry is of the mind— this will please
the Marchioness.” He resumed aloud: “ I am
connected with a beautiful lady, not by the ties
of the Church, but by certain silken links,
which Monsieur Cagliostro, as a man of the
world, knows are a deuced deal stronger than
the matrimonial fetters. W ell! she is the most
ennuyee woman in all Paris; which is strange
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 129
enough, considering whom she has for a lover,
and she has enjoined me, under sentence of
eternal banishment from her sweet presence, to
purvey her some novelty. I frankly confess my
exertions in pursuit of that object have entirely
failed. Despairing of all other means, I seek
the aid of Monsieur le Comte Cagliostro.”
“ You have done well,” returned Cagliostro.
“ Is there such a thing as novelty in the
world ?” asked Count D’Ostalis.
“ There is, and there is not,” answered Ca­
gliostro. “ If you ask me, is there novelty as an
absolute entity ? I reply, no;— but if you say, is
there novelty as a relative existence— I answer,
yes ! All matter is eternal, and incapable of
annihilation. Every atom which is to-day, must
have been yesterday, and will necessarily be to
all eternity. Nay more, every imaginable com­
bination of matter, every conceivable arrange-
o S
Digitized by Google
180 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
raent of thought, must have had its prototype
and predecessor in the infinite series of by-gone
ages. The very ideas now passing through your
mind; the very words I am now using, have
perhaps agitated the brain, and moved the
tongue, of some former beings, in a remote
star, a thousand billions of years before the
first and oldest of the pre-adamite worlds
emerged from chaos. Absolute novelty then is
an impossibility—a contradiction in terms— a
solecism— a chimera— a word without a corre­
sponding existence in the universe of things— ”
“ Spare me, my dear Sir,” cried Count D’Os-
talis, rubbing his forehead in an agonized man­
ner ; “ you have taken away my breath, I will
be content with relative novelty— the absolute
makes my head ache. Half of what I have
heard would infallibly drive the Marchioness
mad.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 131
u R elative novelty is the sentiment o f surprise
with which one contemplates objects for the first
time. N othing is new to me, who have felt all,
9
een all, and considered a ll: but m any things
are doubtless new to a Parisian lady, who has
most probably felt very little, and not thought at
all.”
“ P a rb leu !” cried the Count, “ such language
will be a novelty with a vengeance to a beauty
sated with the choicest flattery in Paris.”
“ D o not alarm yourself, M onsieur,” replied
Cagliostro, “ I should as soon think o f feeding
a linnet on beefsteaks and port wine, as offering
truth to a woman. B ut you have not yet com­
municated her name and degree.”
<
sT h e Marchioness de M ontolieu— an Italian
by birth.”
“ G o o d !— I am well acquainted with the
lady.”
Digitized byGoogle
1 8 2 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ H um ph !” said the Count, rather dryly.
“ Pray, M onsieur, will you give me a cursory
idea o f the mode in which you intend to astonish
the Marchioness, for that, I believe, was your
definition o f relative novelty. T o what point,
may I ask, have your studies been lately
directed ?”
“ Studies !” exclaim ed Cagliostro. “ B u t I
pardon the insult. T h is is the first time you
have seen Cagliostro. Henceforth, Count
iyO stalis, know that the im becile laborious
disciples o f the inductive philosophy, who con­
sume their life in poring over isolated facts,
and then tim idly venture, towards the term in­
ation o f their career, to publish a few partial
uncertain inferences, may indeed be said to
stu d y !— I scorn the word, as much as I scorn
the system o f which it is the basis. I, long
ago, even in the period o f m y burning youth,
discovered these awful and mysterious prin-
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 133
ciples o f abstract truth, upon which all wisdom
must be founded— from which all knowledge
must be derived. A n d having once mounted
to this sphere o f pure and perfect intellectual
light— having once touched this dazzling and
sublime point, where the thousand different
paths o f thought meet and converge— where
the many-coloured, and apparently dissimilar,
rays o f poetry, mathematics, logic, and physics,
blend into one simple and effulgent w hole,— I
can with ease descend by the d p rio ri mode o f
reasoning, upon any particular point o f know­
ledge I m ay wish to attain.”
6
6Parbleu !” cried the C o u n t; “ that would
be an excellent school for us nobles, who wish
to know every thing without learning any thing.
T h e Marchioness will very likely attend a
course o f lectures. B y the by, in what cha­
racter shall I represent you to her ?”
“ A s a true philosopher.”
Digitized byGoogle
134 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Bah !” cried the Count D ’Ostalis. “ No­
thing can be more insipid, more hackneyed,
more worn out, than the term philosopher.
N ot a journalist in Paris, who scribbles for his
daily bread, but terms him self a philosopher.
Y et, setting aside pretenders, we are overrun
even with real geniuses:— I am sick o f your
D ’Alem berts, Leibnitzs, and N ewtons/’
“ A y ,” returned C agliostro; “ but I differ
from the vulgar herd o f geniuses in this respect.
T heir object in seeking truth was to enlighten
their follow-creatures. T h e absurdity o f their
end soon extended itself to the means they
used. T h eir success was lim ited and circum ­
scribed. T h eir souls were clogged in their
flight towards the empyrean o f truth, by the
weight o f the brutal and earthly minds they
endeavoured to carry with them. Now, m y
object in seeking truth (or rather in contem-
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 135
plating it, for search is unnecessary with me), is
to elevate and glorify m y inner-self, while I, in
my esoteric practice, endeavour to m ystify and
degrade m ankind.”
“ Hum ph !” answered the Count D ’Ostalis.
“ A suspicion o f the real fact has once or twice
crossed my mind during the conversation I have
had the honour o f holding with y o u : but I care
not. M ystify the M archioness— that is, astonish
her with something new, and I am content.”
“ L et the M archioness,” said Cagliostro,
“ repair, at any time to-morrow, either alone
or attended, to this my humble domicile, and
your w ill— mark me, I say your will— not the
M archioness’s — shall be accomplished. Will
that suffice you ?”
“ It w ill,” answered D ’Ostalis, briskly. “ Vio­
lently as I am in love, I am rational enough to
prefer m y own gratification to that o f my adored.”
Digitized byGoogle
136 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ But I am not so satisfied,” said Cagliostro.
" There is one little preliminary condition,
which must be immediately performed by you.”
“ What is that?”
“ The payment of fifty louis.”
u Humph! It will be time enough,” ob­
served Count D’Ostalis, very gravely, “ to ask
for the gratuity when the service is performed.”
“ Not at all so—I shall then demand a re­
petition of the compliment.”
“ Monsieur Cagliostro,” returned the Count,
sarcastically, “ seems not to confine his partiality
for the d p r i o r i system to matters of abstract spe­
culation. He wishes to apply it to money affairs,
where he no doubt expects to find it productive
of the same rapid profit that it brought in
philosophy. Now, in this case, I own I prefer
the Baconian mode of operation— that is, first
perform your experiment, then draw the results,
— or, in other words, the hard cash.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 137
“ These are vain words, Monsieur le Comte.
My demands must be implicitly complied with/’
The Count hesitated.
MYou distrust me?”
The Count shrugged his shoulders.
u Hear me— your distrust shows a certain
knowledge of human nature; but it betrays an
ignorance of those great principles of action
that are the hinges, if I may so express myself,
upon which the world must turn. You think
me a scoundrel— I think you a man of fashion
— so our moral estimate of each other is pretty
much the same. But were we the worst of
felons, we must still trust one another, if we
would act in concert.”
“ There is some truth in your reasoning,”
replied Count D’Ostalis, somewhat ruefully;
“ but I always notice, in these matters, that the
man who receives the money, moralizes much
more calmly than the one who pays.”
Digitized by Google
138 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ The remark is indicative of an observant
mind,” said Cagliostro, with an air of candour;
at the same time extending his dexter hand in
the true professional style— the elbow closely
nestled in the side— the palm gently hollowed
into an elegant little cavity, for the reception of
the money— the fingers vibrating with amorous
eagerness to clutch the much-loved metal.
Count D'Ostalis slowly paid the amount.
The digits of the great master of a p r io r i rea­
soning hermetically closed over the sum; while
a gracious and intelligent smile mantled over
his countenance. The Attorney-General him­
self could not have received his “ quiddam
honorarium” with a better grace.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 139
CH APTER IX.
THE CHARLATAN PUT TO THE TEST.
C oun t D 'O stalis met his capricious task*
mistress on the appointed evening with an
exulting heart. The sentiment of triumph is
the most exquisite of all terrestrial feelings—
no matter how wide or how narrow the sphere
of action— no matter how rich or how vile the
prize— the boards of a theatre or the floor of
the senate—a game at cards or a speculation
for millions— a harlot or an angel— a scuffle in
the street or an empire-deciding battle— success
Digitized by Google
140 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
is still success— the nectar of life; and a few
drops of this immortal liquor, poured into our
cup, enables us to endure its bitterness,— wins
us, in spite of reason, to live on, and consoles
us for the long, long years, of wasted labour
and ulcerating disappointment.
Yes, it was with a sensation of triumph that
Count D’Ostalis sought the Marchioness; for
he too had succeeded in his own immeasurably
small way: when great was his astonishment
and indignation to find that she had forgotten,
or affected to have forgotten, the whole affair.
So full, however, was his mind of the singular
character with whom he had lately come in
contact, that in spite of his anger he could not
forbear chattering about Cagliostro.
“ He is the most overpowering talker I ever
met with. Your friend, or rather enemy, Di­
derot, is nothing to him. Start any topic you
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 141
please, then change the conversation to the
antipodes of the former subject; on each or
both, he will burst upon you like a snow storm—
wrap you in a whirlwind of ingenious nonsense
— lift you far above the regions of comprehen­
sibility— then dash you down to earth with some
bitter sarcasm. If his deeds are only in the
fiftieth degree commensurate with his words,
you will be most furiously amused, my dear
Marchioness."
Madame de Montolieu listened to the Count
with surprise. She had never heard him speak
with such vigour and energy before. The
Count, who was imitative as a monkey, had in
fact imbibed some portion of Cagliostro’s style.
The Marchioness’s curiosity was roused, not so
much by what he actually said, as by what he
appeared to feel. She knew that light and
frivolous minds are not easily susceptible of any
Digitized by Google
142 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
deep impression; and sHe felt curious to see the
being who had so strongly excited the Count’s
enthusiasm. She began to hesitate, and we all
know in what manner the woman who once
hesitates between a sense of propriety and her
own inclination, always ultimately decides.
“ Well, Count,” said the Marchioness, " but
supposing I were even inclined to attend to the
mysterious and philosophic appointment you
have thought fit to make for me, (which I most
certainly shall not) how am I to effect my pur­
pose ? I cannot go there without a female com­
panion, and to take one, is to betray my folly to
all Paris.”
“ True, Madame; and even supposing that
you could find such a phoenix— such an eighth
wonder of the world— such an impossible para­
gon as a woman who could keep the secret of a
female friend, it might not be. You must go
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 143
there alone, or attended only by me,— so wills
the inflexible Cagliostro.,, This, as the reader
will recollect, was not strictly true; but the
Count saw she was yielding, and determined to
press his advantage.
“ Alone, or with you,” said the Marchioness
musingly. w The company of a savage is
preferable to utter solitude— at least so said
Robinson Crusoe, who must have understood
the matter after twenty-eight years study. Yes,
Count, you shall accompany me.”
“ Highly flattered.”
“ You will at least protect me from every one
but yourself.”
“ Ah ! Madame,” responded the Count, bow­
ing, sighing, and smirking all at once.
“ Stop, Count; this will not do. Curiosity
is my o n ly weakness— at present. I am going
to meet this strange juggler you speak off— not
Digitized by Google
144 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO *
.
you. Do you understand me, Count ? May I
trust you ?”
“ By all that’s sacred !*’
“ What is sacred to a Frenchman of the
eighteenth century?” replied the Marchioness
thoughtfully. “ Do not your nation hold that
in love and war every stratagem is allowable.”
“ No, Madame,” retorted the Count; “ that
is an Italian proverb.”
“ Well, if the maxim be of Italian origin, it is
of European application.”
u I swear upon the honour of a Frenchman,”
cried D’Ostalis with great energy, Mthat you
may trust me.”
The Marchioness burst into a laugh. “ Ha !
ha! ha ! I believe that is the most awful ad­
juration which the vain Gallic race are capable
of conceiving. Well, I will trust you, Count—
not because you swear, but because, though
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN 145
a terrible coxcomb, I believe you to be a gen­
tleman.’*
The Count’s eyes glistened with pleasure.
The Marchioness looked as if she more than
half repented of her promise. u Alas! alas!”
said she with slow accents, as if rather soliloquiz­
ing than speaking, “ I think I must be a lineal
descendant of Eve. What a terrible passion
is this curiosity— more dangerous even than
vanity. How paltry, how contemptible its bait!
Yet to a mind sunk in languor and ennui, how
irresistible! How I wish I had children to
amuse me ! Unseduced by the allurements of
guilt, I am consenting to wear its appearance—
for what?— an hour’s pastime— for the spectacle
of some new folly, which will not last five
minutes; and yet with which I shall most pro­
bably be tired before it is finished.”
The next evening the Marchioness went
VOL. i. h
Digitized by Google
146 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
early to the Opera. It had been arranged
between her and the Count that she should
pretend indisposition; that Count d’Ostalis
should feign to escort her to her carriage; and
that instead of summoning her equipage, he
should call a fiacre, and proceed without delay
to Cagliostro.
According to the time she was detained there,
the Marchioness would have the option of either
returning to the opera, on the plea that her
headache had left her, or going home and
directing her maitre-d,h6tel to scold her coach­
man for neglecting to attend the imaginary
summons. The plan succeeded admirably.
The fiacre was procured, the Marchioness,
muffled up in a new cloak which she had never
worn before, and which it may be conceived she
resolved never to wear again, stepped into it
with the Count, and soon arrived at Cagliostro’s
lodgings. The door was opened, and they were
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 147
received, not by the lacquey whom Count
D’Ostalis had seen on his first visit, but by a
young and handsome page, somewhat fantasti­
cally attired.
They were usheredinto the same room in which
Cagliostro had received the Count. The furni­
ture was not changed. The portable bookcases
were still standing on one side of the room,
while the philosophical instruments occupied the
other. A single lamp, suspended from the
ceiling, gave a moderate but sufficient light to
the apartment.
“ There is nothing very alarming in the
appearance of the conjurers premises,” cried the
Marchioness, seating herself on a sofa.
“ Did you observe,” said the Count, placing
himself by her side, “ the page who received
us ? Did it not strike you that he, or rather
she, did not wear the garb of her sex ?”
h 2
Digitized by Google
148 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
The Marchioness did not answer the ques­
tion, but she rose up— took a volume from the
book-case— placed it on a chair— then said :
“ Go to that chair, Count, and quietly read
that book, without speaking, until your famous
magician deigns to make his appearance. Re­
member the honour of a Frenchman.”
The Count sighed, but obeyed the order.
It may be imagined that he did not peruse the
volume with much interest: he, however, had
the patience to retain his position for about ten
minutes. At the end of this time, he stole a
glance at the Marchioness. Her eyes were
fixed on her book, but she was smiling.
“ Pardon me, Madame,” said he; “ but I
shall die of weariness, if I sit here another five
minutes. Will you allow me to examine the
Instruments on that table ?”
“ I think I may permit you that indulgence.''
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 941
The Count rose,— refreshed himself with a
tremendous yawn,— and then, approaching the
table, began to handle and examine the various
instruments with which it was strewed. He
incautiously laid his hands on an electrical jar,
which, either by accident or design, had been
left charged, and received a smart shock. He
immediately executed a most vigorous caper,
that was not at all in keeping with his usual
languid movements.
“ That rascal Cagliostro! I see how it is.
He has bolted with my fifty louis, and left these
accursed instruments here to assassinate me!”
The Marchioness had a good deal of scien­
tific knowledge, which she concealed with as
much care as the Count did his good sense.
u Bah J
” cried she, laughing; “ it is only an
electrical jar. Why do you touch and finger
every thing, like a child? Butin good truth,
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO!
150
Count, I am tired of stopping any longer; I
have waited for your moral enchanter a quarter
of an hour, which is fifteen times as long as I
would have waited for a king. So I insist upon
it, that you run down stairs, and either find
Cagliostro, or our fiacre. I am exceedingly
obliged to you for the brilliant entertainment
you have afforded me. It is an admirable
reward for the risk and peril I have encountered
to get here.”
The Count bit his lips, and approached the
door, for bells there were none. He twisted
the handle, he shook it— still it did not open.
“ By heavens !” exclaimed he, “ it is locked.”
The Marchioness did not scream, but she
became extremely white.
“ Count D’Ostalis, unless you would have
me consider you the most worthless and per­
jured of human beings— open that door.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 5 1
‘‘ On the honour of a Frenchman!” began
the Count-----
“ Stop, Sir, you have given that pledge once
too often. Will you deny that you are a party
to this infamous trick ?”
“ 1 will swear that I had no hand in its con­
trivance. That I am a party, together with
yourself, to the trick,” added he, ruefully, “ as
a fellow victim, is as little my choice as it is
your’s.”
u Then instantly break open the door,” said
the indignant and frightened Marchioness.
“ Parbleu ! Madam; birth may make a man
a count, but it does not make a man a lock­
smith. Besides, I have no tools,” said he,
stretching forth a pair of extremely white and
useless-looking hands.
“ Take anything,” replied the agitated lady,
“ For God’s sake make the attempt, or I am
Digitized by Google
152 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
lost.9
’ She snatched up a brass rod, that was
lying among the philosophic instruments, and '
thrust it into his hand. There— there— that
will do— only try.”
Rather to pacify the Marchioness, than from
any hope of succeeding, the Count began peck­
ing and tapping at the lock, in a most helpless
and ludicrously inefficient manner.
The Marchioness clasped her hands in despair.
Suddenly her eye fell upon the other door of
the apartment. “ Perhaps that is not locked,”
said she, darting forward. She opened it—
advanced a step— uttered one piercing shriek—
and, staggering back into the apartment, fell
senseless on the floor.
The Count, who had turned round at her
cry, rushed forward. The door opened into a
long dark passage, at the end of which the
Count saw, illuminated by some strong light, a
young man of surpassing beauty, habited in an
Digitized by Google
OR; THE CHARLATAN. 153
almost savage apparel of goat-skins. He had
scarcely time to snatch a single glance at this
appearance, when the door closed to, with tre­
mendous violence; at the same moment, the
door which was locked flew open, and Cagliostro
entered, with a smiling countenance.
“ Good evening, Count D’Ostalis,” said he,
in a brisk tone of voice; “ the fifty louis, if you
please.”
“ Monster!” exclaimed the other, who was
kneeling beside the insensible Marchioness.
“ Dare,you ask a reward for murder ?”
“ A sense of duty to my own interests,”
quietly replied Cagliostro, ts will prevent me
from rendering you assistance, until the fifty
louis are paid.”
“ There, ruffian,” cried the Count, tearing
from his pocket a heavy purse, and throwing
it at him: “ now, help your victim.”
h 3
Digitized by Google
154 COUNT CAGLIOSTItO :
Cagliostro walked with great composure to
the table, and, taking up a jug of water and a
goblet, approached the Marchioness, and dashed
two or three goblets-full over her pale face.
He then forced a portion of the pure element
down her throat.
The Marchioness at length uttered a deep
sigh, and opened her eyes.
“ There P said Cagliostro. “ It is nothing;
or, at least, is now over. Farewell, Count;
Madame de Montolieu will never ask you for
novelty again. Adieu, S ir; your fiacre is
waiting at the door.”
By this time, Madame de Montolieu was
much recovered. The Count began to pour
forth a profusion of apologies. Could he have
had the slightest suspicion of what would have
been the result of this fatal spectacle, he would
have died ten thousand deaths, rather than have
exposed her to the shock.
Digitized by Google
OR» THE CHARLATAN. 155
He solemnly assured the Marchioness, that
he had not the smallest participation in the
scene which had just happened.
“ Make no apologies,” said the Marchioness,
faintly; “ It was my own fault. A sudden
spasm shot— that is— I mean, a sudden fright
shot across me. Take me away— not back to
the opera. No— no.— I must go home— I am
ill.”
As there was nothing very frightful in the
figure which Count D ’Ostalis had witnessed,
he was disposed to attribute the swoon and sub­
sequent agitation of Madame de Montolieu,
rather to some association connected with the
appearance, than to the mere spectacle itself.
His curiosity was much excited; but when he
saw the exhausted state of the Marchioness,
and her evident disinclination to afford any ex­
planation, he had sufficient delicacy to forbear
Digitized by Google
156 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
putting any questions on the subject: there was
therefore little conversation between them as the
fiacre proceeded to the H6tel de Montolieu.
He there explained to the domestics that their
mistress had been suddenly taken ill at the
opera, a story which her appearance corrobo­
rated ; and that her equipage not having arrived,
he had been compelled to bring her home in a
fiacre.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 157
CH APTER X.
THE INTERVIEW.
It was evening; Cagliostro sat alone in his
chamber, musing on the events of the preceding
evening. A lady was announced.
“ Her name 7 *
uShe declined giving it, Monsieur le Comte,1
9
answered the lacquey, “ but says she is well
known to you.”
“ Show her in.”
A female, so muffled and veiled, that neither
Digitized by Google
158 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
face nor figure could be recognized, entered the
apartment with unsteady and irresolute steps.
Cagliostro rose, and assisted her to a chair.
The stranger accepted the courtesy, and after
two or three preparatory efforts to speak, at last
said, in an agitated and tremulous voice,
“ Is Monsieur le Comte de Cagliostro dis­
posed to assist an unfortunate lady, who throws
herself on his generosity ?”
“ Never yet was such an appeal made to him
in vain!”
“ For any trouble which I may give,” said
she producing a weighty purse, “ 1 shall be
most happy to compensate.”
“ Make your request first, Marchioness de
Montolieu; it will then be time for him to form
his demand.”
“ It is in vain to deceive you, Count Caglios­
tro,” said the lady, removing her veiL
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 159
c
<The tones of that voice,” gravely observed
Cagliostro, without any approach to gallantry
in his manner— “ once heard, would never be
forgotten.”
“ Count Cagliostro,” resumed the Marchio­
ness, still speaking with effort, “ it is not with
the idle intention of deriving amusement from
your talents that I have to-day ventured hither
at a risk.— Oh, God ! my heart grows sick at the
thoughts of discovery: but I am haunted by a
horrid anxiety— a restless, feverish, burning,
uncertainty, to which even my present fears are
preferable. I cannot eat— sleep— think— live—
unless I am satisfied. Is he— I mean is the per­
son whose effigy you last night exhibited to me
still alive?”
“ He is.”
“ In what country ?” faintly asked the Mar­
chioness.
Digitized by Google
160 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ In France— at Paris.”
“ Oh God ! and his name ?”
“ Is at present Count Cagliostro.”
The Marchioness uttered a subdued cry, and
covered her face with both her hands, while the
tears forced their way between her slender
fingers.
“ Peruse these features;” said Cagliostro,
gravely and even mournfully: “ can you not yet
discover in the charlatan some of the lineaments
which charmed you in the saint?”
The Marchioness’sanguish seemed to increase.
“ Be comforted, lady,” said Cagliostro, wyou
are not the first by millions, who has mistaken
an impostor for a messenger of the Deity.”
“ May we not with justice,” said the weeping
Marchioness, “ complain of Providence, when
we are permitted by one single act to render
our whole lives miserable ?”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 161
“ I leave those questions to theologians, see­
ing that the justice or injustice of our com­
plaints does not affect the misery of the result.
But know, if it is any consolation to you, that
ofall my misdeeds I repent me of this one alone:
believe me there was no premeditation, no deli­
berate intendon to injure. I was apprendced
in my youth to an engraver at Florence; a
neighbouring painter, whose powers of execution
were greater than his conception, selected me as
a model for that fatal picture, which was placed
in the cathedral of a neighbouring town. In
the frolicsome rashness of youth, I threatened
to exhibit myself under the picture on some high
festival. My master, and his friend, the painter,
were frightened, and took the trouble to repur­
chase the picture and to send it to Rome, where
it went for half its value. They indemnified
themselves for their loss and trouble with the
Digitized by Google
162 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
saint, by inflicting a tremendous thrashing on
the original, which compliment I have since
repaid a thousand fold. Indignant at this treat­
ment, 1 fled to an old uncle, who was gardener
at the convent of S t John; there, by an extra­
ordinary coincidence, I again found the pic­
ture. My mad and mischievous spirit urged me
to play a part which I now deeply regret The
rest you know. You see we are all the beings
of circumstance: the hero is its creature— the
criminal its victim.”
“ If you regret, as you profess to do,” said
the Marchioness mournfully, “ the sufferingyou
have occasioned, you will not increase that
misery, by revealing events now known, I trust,
only to yourself.”
“ Lady, your secret is safe in my hands—
safer than it would be in the keeping of many a
titled scion of nobility.”
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 168
T h ere was something in the tone o f Ca-
gliostro’s voice that wounded the Marchioness’s
feelin gs; for she burst into a fresh torrent o f
tears, and exclaim ed, with an irresistible burst
o f natural feelings “ Oh, G od ! that 1 should
live to see m y honour in such keeping !*’
“ M adam e de M ontolieu, you do m e injustice^
— you know not what you owe to m y forbear­
ance. I love you— nay, start not, nor cover
your face with your hands— yes, I love you—
have loved you for y e a rs: who has so good a
right? Y e t, tell me, have you ever been in­
sulted by the admiration o f Cagliostro ? H ave
you ever been tormented by marks o f his
attachm ent? H as he ever intruded him self
into your presence? Y o u — not I— sought this
interview. I was content to behold you, as the
moth watches the star. Y es, am id the splen­
dour o f the opera, surrounded, as you were, by
Digitized byGoogle
164 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
the minions o f fashion, there was an eye that
still gazed at you from beneath, with quiet, yet
intense adoration. M any a night as you stepped
unconscious from your gay equipage, there was
a heart amid the crowd, though you were never
troubled with the knowledge, that would have
given worlds for the short pleasure o f assisting
you to a lig h t: yet the man who felt these pas*
sionate emotions, kept them suppressed for years
in his heart's core, because their slightest mani­
festation would have been injurious to your
happiness. H e does not ask you to return his
feelings, but give him at least some credit for
delicacy and generosity.”
T h ere was a long pause, during which they
both gazed on each other w ith an expression o f
countenance that would have been difficult to
define. A crowd o f jarrin g and indistinct
emotions seemed struggling there for predomi­
nance. T h e M archioness first broke silence.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 165
“ Pardon me, if 1 have offended you. Though
late, I indeed do justice to your generous self-
denial ; you said well, that we were indeed the
beings o f circum stance: would we had met
under happier auspices.— M onsieur de C agli-
ostro, in a career like yours, money m ust be
always valuable, and is likely to be sometimes
wanting. O blige m e by accepting this trifle.”
She produced the purse before alluded to. “ It
is needless to say I do not offer it as a bribe.
I am well aware that had you been so inclined,
you m ight long since have extorted from me m y
last livre. I offer it to you frankly and freely,
as a proof o f m y regard.”
“ N ever P’ said Cagliostro, turning away from
the proffered gift. “ M oney, I w ill confess, is
not an object o f indifference to m e ; and save
that I scorn to w ring it from the poor and
oppressed, I am not very scrupulous how I
obtain it. Y es, before now, I have, perhaps,
Digitized byGoogle
166 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
invaded property— property forsooth !— what is
property but a right created b y craft and power
to appropriate to themselves the fruits o f others’
labour. B u t not from you, E rm inia de M on-
tolieu, will I receive a single denier.”
T h e Marchioness was touched in spite o f
hersel£ “ A ccept, then,” said she, " a ring,
which can have no value but w hat it derives
from the intention o f the donor.”
Cagliostro took the ring, and respectfully
pressed it to bis lips.
“ Farew ell, then, M onsieur de Cagliostro, for
ever. It is better for both that we should not
meet again.”
T h e M archioness rose to depart, but she
stopped short near the door, and seemed over­
powered with agitation.
“ M onsieur,” said she, her voice almost
choaked with emotion, “ I have not yet sum-
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 167
moned courage enough to put the question that
lies nearest m y heart, but 1 could not depart
without. T h e question is one o f shame and
agony, but though the effort cost me m y life, I
w ill utter it. Y o u seem, unknown to myself, to
have watched m y course through life,— can you
reveal to m e the fate o f the unfortunate being
to whom my gu ilt gave birth ?”
“ A la s ! M adam e, I have spent years,—
years, which the world deemed were far other­
wise employed, in vain attempts to unravel the
m ystery. T h e pursuit o f this know ledge has
been the object and the torment o f m y existence.”
T h e agitation in the M archioness's counte­
nance gave way to a look o f blank disappoint­
ment. u So dies,” said she, despairingly, “ the
last hope that lurked at the bottom o f m y heart.
T h e vain, wild hope, that prompted me to seek
this interview.”
Digitized byGoogle
168 COUNT CAGUOSTRO !
“ Do not despair, lady,” said Caglio9tro;
“ believe me, I will never cease my exertions
until 1 have either ascertained her present fate
and condition, or till I am satisfied that she has
ceased to exist* Success, though late, must
come at last to the undaunted and persevering.
When that happens, may I hope for the honour
of another interview
“ O h! yes, yes,” replied Madame de Monto-
lieu hurriedly; <
cask anything th e n — yes— I
will see you then;— I care not for fame, I care
not for danger, could I but once see her, hear
the tone of her voice, though but for a single
moment, I could afterwards die in peace. But
time presses— I must be gone.”
“ Farewell, then, until I shall be able to
afford you that pleasure.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 6 9
C H APTER X L
THE OLD RAKE AND THE YOUNG MISANTHROPE.
It was not long before Cleveland received a
polite message from the Duke de Fronsac,
requesting to know whether he had leisure
enough to undertake a short journey into the
country. Cleveland understood the intimation;
and though still averse to perform the part
which had been so vexatiously thrust upon him,
he felt that he could not now, without betraying
a ridiculous infirmity of purpose, recede from
his engagement. Under this conviction, he
VOL. i. i
Digitized by Google
170 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
repaired to the Hotel de Fronsac. The Duke
received him with much affability, and apologized
with much earnestness for the plebeian nature
of the conveyance to which they should be com­
pelled to resort
Circumstances prevented him from using his
ordinary travelling equipage on the present oc­
casion. To perform the journey on horseback
was tedious and fatiguing in the extreme, so
that there remained no resource but the public
diligence. He had, however, endeavoured to
secure Monsieur Cleveland as much as possible
from contact with the canaille, by engaging the
coupe, or fore-part of the vehicle, for their
exclusive use.
Cleveland expressed his perfect content at the
arrangements which had been made; but inti­
mated his surprise that the Duke, who thought
more of such things, should condescend to dis­
pense with his usual travelling comforts.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 171
“ The truth is, my dear Sir, that 1 drop my
dukedom in Champagne, and content myself
with the more moderate title of Baron de
Voisenon. You must be aware how soon my
real name would be divulged, if 1 travelled with
half-a-dozen idle chattering domestics.'*
They journeyed in silence for a few miles; at
last the Duke began to talk.
“ The world would call me very imprudent,
Monsieur Cleveland, if they knew where I was
conducting you. They would say, that the
shepherd, who shows the wolf to the fold, may
thank himself if his sheep are stolen.9
'
“ Methinks, you selected a strange animal
for your umpire,9
9returned Cleveland, smiling;
u I can only say, that the wolf came hither
against his own inclinations; and would even
now willingly turn back, if exonerated from his
promise.9
9
i 2
Digitized by Google
172 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO .*
4
4I merely spoke of the light in which the
vulgar would regard the transaction; for my­
self—or rather to continue the metaphor— for
my lambs, I entertain no apprehensions.”
4
4Do you approve, then, of the sentiment of
the ancient, who said, 41 possess Lais, but
Lais does not possess me’ ?”
4
4Not at all,” returned the Duke, laughing;
4
4but I do not think you are likely to disturb
me in the possession of my Lais. Now, don’t
look affronted. Shave off your whiskers, and
no young man of my acquaintance would better
enact the part of Apollo. But know, my young
friend, that an Apollo is not so puissant a per­
sonage among women as a Venus is among
men.”
4
4I had always imagined,” said Cleveland,
much amused at hearing the old roue discuss
so delicate a subject, 4
4that women set much
v alue on external appearances.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 178
“ If you mean silks, satins, and other milli­
nery for their sweet frames, you are right. I
believe they prize dress more than all things,
either in the heavens above, or the earth be­
neath. But if you allude to masculine beauty,
trust me, the dear creatures are far too much
engrossed with procuring admiration for their
own charms, to have either time or inclination
for admiring you. 1 again apologize for my
rudeness, in deprecating an article of which
you possess so large a stock.”
“ You do not then regret your departed
youth V
“ Pardon me,” said the Duke, with serious­
ness ; “ I never said that. No, I frankly con­
fess, my dear Monsieur Cleveland, that I envy
you— I envy you your compact and vigorous
frame, which laughs at fatigue; I envy you the
firmness of those youthful nerves, which brave
excess with impunity— to which nothing brings
Digitized by Google
174 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO .*
satiety,— in a word, I envy you your superior
capacity for enjoyment.”
“ And yet you do not think that these qua­
lities are likely to obtain, or, at any rate, insure
success.”
“ Exactly so,” said the Duke. “ Armed
with a handful of gold, I would fearlessly
enter the lists with one, who rivalled Antinous
in form, and De Grammont in manners.”
“ Was there not a period,” said Cleveland,
“ in your life, when you held a different
opinion ?”
" Never,” said the Duke; " though there
was a time when my cheek was as fresh, and
my frame as elastic, as your own. Unintoxi­
cated with my youthful blood, I read the sex
aright from the beginning. I purchased my
first conquest like Philip of Macedon— I found
no fort impregnable, where I could introduce a
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 175
bagful of gold. By these means my reputa­
tion became considerable. It grew so great,
that at last my notice brought with it notoriety,
and even fame. From that moment my career
has been uniformly triumphant.”
Cleveland recollected the success which he
had constantly heard ascribed to the Duke;
and felt, that whatever was the fact, he had at
any rate not exaggerated his reputation. The
Englishman was silent. The unbidden memo­
ries of past events rose to his remembrance,
and brought unwelcome confirmation to the
Duke's doctrines. His countenance became
thoughtful and gloomy.
The Duke saw that the conversation was
painful, and pursued it with malicious anima­
tion.
" Why,” said he, u do we call the personages
we read of in romances— who entertain dis-
Digitized by Google
176 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
interested attachments for each other— heroes
and heroines ? Why— but because we feel that
they are something more than men and women.
Everywhere, except in novels, marriage is a
matter of bargain and sale. In every age, in
every country, a pecuniary consideration is the
basis on which the transaction is founded. The
very laws, in most countries, hold marriage to
be a valuable consideration. In uncivilized
lands, where the passions speak a plain and
direct language, the lover openly buys his
spouse for so many skins, or so many bows
and arrows. In the politer regions, settlements,
dowers, handsome establishments, and position
in society, constitute the actuating equivalent.
But descend a little lower in the scale of society.
Marriage, though the only traffic which is re­
cognized by the sex as legal and honourable, is
not the only commerce they practise ; and the
principle which animates the contraband dealers
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 177
is so obvious— so frankly avowed by themselves
— and presses with such singular severity on
the other sex, that all disguise is ridiculous.
Everywhere man intrigues from the love of
pleasure, and woman from the thirst of lucre.”
“ Are we then more high-minded than the
other sex Y 9 said Cleveland, thoughtfully.
“ Not a jot. Man freely sells whatever it is
in his power to dispose of—he sells his labour,
his talents, his integrity, his limbs, his blood,
his life, his liberty; but his passions on certain
points are not his own to sell. They are not
his slaves, but his masters. They sell him,
and insist upon being maintained at any cost.”
“ But are women always voluntary agents in
these matters ? In marriage, are they not the
victims of parental avarice ? and elsewhere, do
they not fall a prey to poverty and destitution,
rather than to mercenary dispositions Y 9
i 3
Digitized by Google
178 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Such I know is the first and most sacred
article in the veracious code of novelists, poets,
and romancers. It is true that the bride’s
inclinations are never consulted in France;
the parents manage the whole affair. And this
practice, according to my views, saves the
young lady the trouble of selling herself; and,
according to your’s, the disgrace. But other
countries manage these affairs otherwise. In
England, I am told they allow the young
beauties to choose for themselves; and what
happens there? Monsieur Cleveland, I pray
you inform me truly, whether heirs-apparent
are a very despised class of beings T 9
The features of Cleveland underwent a mo­
mentary contraction, as if a sudden spasm of
pain had shot across his breast. Quickly, how­
ever, recovering himself, he replied, “ When­
ever I cannot speak of my fair countrywomen
with unqualified approbation, I am determined
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 179
to be altogether silent. Yet, whatever may be
my own private opinion on these matters, I am
surprised to hear you, of all men, avow such
sentiments.*9
“ Why so?9
“ I should have imagined, that such melan­
choly convictions respecting the sex were incon­
sistent with the ardour with which you pursue
them. If I hold these doctrines, they are in
keeping with the apathy that you declare to be
my chief characteristic. I carelessly pluck the
fruit that lies within my reach; satisfied that
the more distant prizes will not reward the
trouble of acquisition. But you spend your
whole life in a vain chase after what you de­
nounce as worthless. For a man of gallantry
like you, to pry so curiously into female motives,
is surely acting like the child who cut his drum
to discover the secret of the sound.9
9
Digitized by Google
180 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ But my toys,” said the Duke, smiling, “ do
not charm me the less, because I am acquainted
with their interior mechanism. When I listen
to protestations of love and gratitude, and
drink in with my ears vows of unalterable con­
stancy— what care I whether they be true or
false ? Their sincerity does not affect the silver
sweetness of the sound. Besides, I never in­
tend to put them to the test. When 1 go to
the theatre, do I the less sympathize with the
sorrows of Merope, because I know that, when
the play is over, Mademoiselle Ninon will com­
pose her features— go home— make an excellent
supper—and punctually call at the end of the
week for her accustomed salary ?— You see the
analogy is strong.”
“ I quarrel with no man's taste,” said Cleve­
land, gravely; “ but to me it seems clear, that
he who has once enjoyed the reality, will never
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 181
be content with the fiction. The bacchanal,
who has tasted the generous extract of the
grape, will not afterwards be satisfied with
water coloured to the same hue. The lovers of
nature would smile indeed, if you should offer
them the canvas mimicries of the painter, as a
substitute for the rocks and woods they adore.
But it is useless to multiply comparisons.”
The Duke, while he affected to contradict
Cleveland’s opinion, seemed to take a secret
delight in confirming and fixing them.
4
4We agree then in our theories,” said he;
4
4but how widely do we differ in our practical
inferences. You, though too polite to be a
cynic, and too wise to be a reformer, pass
through life without relish; because you do not
find the world peopled with beings exactly re­
sembling the architypes of your own poetical
imagination. I, on the contrary, have all the
Digitized by Google
182 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
enjoyment of a thorough dupe; while I escape
his disappointments and mortifications, and
superadd the pride and the pleasures of philo­
sophic penetration/’
The Duke de Fronsac and Cleveland had
thus arrived at the same conviction, though by
different paths. The bitterness of disappoint­
ment had induced these melancholy conclusions
in the one, while they were the natural and
necessary effects of libertinism in the other. In
estimating human nature, all men are chiefly
influenced by the manner in which they imagine
themselves to have been personally treated by
their species: and if a libertine judges by his
own experience, he must, at last, unless he be
the most contemptible of gulls, arrive at the
miserable, deplorable opinions respecting women
which the Duke so coolly avowed. But let none
but the base and low-minded lose their faith in
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 183
the existence of human virtue. Cleveland, as
his companion acutely remarked, took no relish
in life, because he found nothing there which
realized the expectations, or satisfied the de­
mands, of his own pure and generous mind.
The Duke, on the other hand, disbelieved in
virtue with impunity; for he had degraded and
depraved his tastes down to the standard of his
opinions; or, perhaps, they were naturally on a
level. Far from regretting the corruption which
he declared to be universal, he exulted in the
thoughts of the influence, which, through the
medium of his immense fortune, it placed in his
hands. But though the sentiments he expressed
were quite sincere, the pleasure which he felt in
their utterance was probably not the only motive
which induced him to turn the conversation on
so delicate a subject. His penetration had long
ago made him acquainted with Cleveland’s cha-
Digitized by Google
184 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
racter: still, in spite of this artificial coldness
of disposition, and in spite of his conviction of
the nullity of masculine beauty, he perhaps felt
some misgivings as to the consequences which
might arise from the introduction of Cleveland
to the secluded beauty. It was most likely,
therefore, with the view of rousing the latent
feelings of dissatisfaction which he knew to exist
in Cleveland’s mind, and of exciting anew his
disgust, at fresh illustrations of the mercenary
nature of women, that he had so broadly and
offensively declared his opinion of female ve­
nality.
In due time they arrived at the conclusion of
their journey. Dismounting from their vehicle
at a small, but pleasant village, they gave their
portmanteaus and other luggage to a peasant,
and proceeded to climb the hill, at the foot of
which the village was situated. On reaching
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 185
the brow, a scene of great beauty burst upon
their view. An immense extent of flat, but
exceedingly fertile country, lay before them:
golden com fields, emerald and purple vine­
yards,luxuriant pasturesthickly dotted withcattle
and woods waving to the summer breeze, kept
stretching on in interminable variety,— all gra­
dually growing smaller and smaller, until their
exceeding minuteness would havedefiedtheaccu­
racy of the most skilful painter; and yet, from
the shortness of the distance, and the surpassing
clearness of the atmosphere, each object looking
as bright, and as distinct, as if it lay immediately
beneath his view. People may talk as they will
of mountain scenery, nothing is more beautiful
than a level country, if you can but get a single
hill from which to take your view. No doubt
you may climb higher, and see farther in a
Digitized by Google
186 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
mountainous district; but the surrounding
rocky ranges conceal the intervening vallies, and
the surface of ground presented to the eye is not
nearly so extensive or so beautiful. Seated on
a natural step as it were of the hill, and still
commanding a most extensive prospect, stood an
old and ivy-covered ch&teau.
“ Behold,” said the Duke, “ my p a r e a u x
c e rfs
“ Good God!” thought Cleveland, “ is it in
the centre of this terrestrial paradise— this spot
* The Parc aux cerfs was a retired chateau, dedicated
to the pleasures of Louis XY. Youug girls of tender age
were purchased, or taken away from their parents, forthe
express purpose of regal prostitution. They were kept in
complete ignorance of the real rank of their lover; and
if unhappily for themselves they penetrated the secret,
they were forced into a convent for the rest of their lives.
Those of a simple or less inquiring disposition, were
allowed to leave the place after a certain time, and were
presented with dowries or pensions.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 187
so crowded with all that evidences the bounty
and loveliness of nature, that a cold-hearted
libertine has the will and the power to fix the
scene of his purchased joys and unhallowed
orgies P
Digitized by Google
188 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
CH APTER XII.
THE VICTIM.
The housekeeper welcomed the arrival of the
two gentlemen at the chateau. She was a
middle-aged female, whose figure, in spite of
its present unwieldiness and obesity, had evi­
dently once possessed no inconsiderable share of
excellence. Her complexion was prodigiously
red and fiery; her eyes overflowing with moist­
ure; the rest of the face fleshy and bloated.
Her manners were bustling, important, and
over-civil: in every thing she did or said, there
A
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 189
was a provoking air of intelligence, which was
inexpressibly annoying to Cleveland.
“ Where is Mademoiselle Antonia ?” said the
Duke.
“ She i3 in the garden— I will go and send
her to Monseigneur.”
She went out, and a few moments afterwards
the door opened, and a girl of about sixteen
made her appearance. Prepared as Cleveland
had been to behold a very lovely specimen of
humanity, he was completely dazzled and over­
whelmed by her extraordinary beauty.
She was a brunette, possessing to the fullest
extent all the peculiar advantages of that style;
— the exquisite fineness of skin, the rich warm
complexion, the soft dark lustrous eyes, the
jetty ringlets. In addition to these important
points, her features were formed with that
Grecian regularity, that perfect symmetry,
Digitized by Google
190 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
which we so seldom see in living beings, that we
are sometimes tempted to suppose it the mere
offspring of the painter and sculptor's imagina­
tion. But Antonia possessed a beauty which is
much more rare among the higher ranks of
society than a fascinating physiognomy. Among
the wealthier classes of almost every country,
you will see abundance of angelic faces, but
very few really good figures can be found. The
habits and modes of education which prevail
among these classes, restrain young females from
taking the exercise that can alone develope that
exquisite muscular fulness, without which there
may be grace, but can be no beauty.
No doubt, the young ladies are much better
occupied in practising concertos, and sitting on
high-backed stools working samplers; but still it
is a pity to see so many lean throats, scraggy
shoulders, thin bosoms, spare flaccid arms,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 191
crooked spines, unequal hips, and ricketty
ancles, more especially when surmounted, as
they are in many cases, by such sweet and in­
teresting countenances.
It is not enough to call Antonia’s figure
faultless,— it was noble— it was glorious— it was
perfect. It is nothing to say, that no man
under thirty could have surveyed it without
emotion. T h e most envious woman, the most
stupid child, could not have gazed on it without
pleasure— a pleasure arising from the gratified
perception o f extrem e beauty, and exquisite
harm ony o f proportion. H er dress, too, or
rather undress, was admirably contrived to dis­
play her charms. She had not formed her
raven curls into a mass o f pomatum and powder,
as the fashion o f the day im peratively required—
a hideous and disgusting practice, which some
prem aturely grey-headed and partially-bald
Digitized byGoogle
792 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
beauty first introduced, and which the rest o f
her countrywomen, unlike the sapient foxes in
the fable, who declined to dock their brushes at
the interested solicitation o f a tail-less brother,
eagerly followed and adopted. She wore a sort
of fancy dressing-gown, rich and striking enough
in its way, but which a Parisian lady would
have deemed an indelible dishonour to have
borne anywhere but at her toilette—
“ Leaving every beauty free
To sink or swell as heaven pleases.**
How different from the preposterous hoops
which were then worn, and which assigned to
all women, whether young or old, stout or
slender— whether they were bent dowagers o f
seventy, or m arried ladies about to increase
their family, or slim virgins o f sixteen —one
uniform and hideous rotundity o f figure.
Cleveland gazed on Antonia's beauty with
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 19S
m elancholy interest. “ C an it be,” thought he,
u that this bright creature is doomed even from
the first flush o f youth to lead a life o f infamy
and misery, thinly gilded over by precarious
splendour ? A re those charms, so fit to have
inspired the purest enthusiasm and affection,
destined only to sate the worn-out appetites o f a
loveless debauchee? W ill nature and fortune
never cease playing at cross purposes ? W hy is
the man whom fate sentences to play the part o f
underling, tormented with a genius to make
him discontented and miserable ? W hy is the
woman whom circumstances are certain to place
in the power o f the vicious and the corrupt,
cursed with the fatal gift o f beauty?”
T h e subject o f the foregoing reflection, when
she espied who was in the apartment, ran up to
the D uke, and received from him the embrace,
VOL. I. K
Digitized byGoogle
194 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
which at that day was the ordinary mode o f
salutation among intimate acquaintance.
“ A llow m e,” said the D uke, turning round
with a trium phant air to Cleveland, “ allow me
to introduce m y friend M onsieur Cleveland, an
E nglish gentlem an.”
Antonia curtesied with that peculiar grace
that all her movements exhibited.
“ A n d how, Antonia,” said the D uke, “ have
you been passing your tim e since I last saw
you ?”
“ In counting,” replied Antonia affectionately,
“ how m any days would elapse before you re­
turned.”
“ Is this hypocrisy or infatuation 7* thought
Cleveland.
“ Y o u will make me vain, Antonia,” said the
D uke, glancing another trium phant look at
Cleveland.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 195
u N ay, you are laughing at me,” replied A n ­
tonia ; “ the natural gratitude o f a simple girl
can hardly be a very intoxicating homage to the
B aron de Voisenon.”
“ G ra titu d e!” thought Cleveland, “ that is
strange— gratitude for seducing her, or p u r­
chasing her from her p aren ts!”
T h e D uke no longer looked trium phant, but
hastened to change the subject*
“ W ell, M onsieur Cleveland, what think you
o f my chateau; it is a fine old building, is it
not?”
“ Pardon me, D uke, but I have not yet had
time to exam ine your m ansion; m y attention
has been absorbed b y a fairer object.”
T o Cleveland’s extrem e surprise, a deep blush
overspread Antonia’s countenance.
“ U nhappy inconsistent girl I” thought be,
“ you have ceased to feel shame at the loss o f
x 2
Digitized byGoogle
196 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
innocence, and yet blush at a commonplace
compliment.”
“ Blush away, A n to n ia !” cried the D uke,
“ you look charm ing— all the perfumers of
Paris will hardly match such carmine as that.
B y heavens ! Cleveland, I shall make you teach
me the art o f m anufacturing these pretty no­
things.”
“ A re you sure, my dear Baron,” interrupted
Antonia, “ that they would have the same effi­
cacy from your mouth ?”
“ Indiscreet, too !” thought Cleveland, “ with
all her affectation o f affection.”
u P ray, M onsieur Cleveland,” said Antonia,
“ is it true what I have read in some travels,
that in your country the single women are
allowed to partake o f the pleasures o f society
with as much freedom as the m arried ladies?”
Cleveland assured her that such was undoubt­
edly the case.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 197
“ A h ! England must be a delightful country
for such personages as m yself.”
Cleveland felt it no part o f his duty to explain
to the young lady that personages like herself
were rigidly excluded in E ngland from respect­
able society; so he was silent.
“ M y dear Baron,” said Antonia, turning to
the D uke, “ let us m ake a voyage to E ngland.”
“ A las ! M ademoiselle,” said Cleveland, “ the
change o f atmosphere will not improve my
friend. W e have the reputation o f being one
o f the most jealous nations in Europe.”
“ A jealous n atio n !” repeated Antonia, with
a puzzled air. “ B u t what o f that, M onsieur ?
I did not speak o f jealousy.”
“ Y es, Antonia,” said the D uke, interfering
in some confusion; “ you did— or, what is the
same thing, C leveland did. In fact, I am
jealous, m y dear Antonia— very jealous; I
wish you to live wholly for me.”
Digitized byGoogle
198 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ H ere is a pretty confession,” cried Antonia,
laughing. “ W ell, I ’ve sometimes suspected,
when you were talking o f the impossibility o f
breaking through the usages o f society, that
you wished to keep me all to yourself.”
“ A not unnatural feeling under existing
circumstances,” thought Cleveland. " I wonder
the suspicion never crossed her mind before.”
T h e D uke smiled, but made no answer.
T h ere was an unaccountable air o f embarrass­
ment and tim idity in his demeanour on the
present occasion, which was alike inconsistent
with his general character, and the usual bold­
ness and self-possession o f his manners.
A n awkward pause in the conversation en­
sued, which Cleveland broke, b y m aking an
observation on the beauty o f the prospect,
which the windows o f the chateau commanded.
w Y es, it is lovely,” replied A n to n ia ; * and I
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 199
have often gazed on it with d eligh t; but, some­
how or other, all solitary pleasures so soon weary
me. I am afraid I have no im agination— for,
after awhile, I turn away from yon varied
landscape, to play with my kitten or my
squirrel. Even they have more sympathy with
me than the woods and fields. T h ey fondle
me when I caress them, and bite and scratch
me when I teaze them ; but whether I am sad
or m erry, yonder rich scene always smiles upon
me with unmoved and unregarding loveliness.’'
Cleveland was forcibly struck with her re­
mark. k *c Y es,” rejoined he, " you are right.
L ife alone can sympathize with life. It is in
vain that, in our moments o f misanthropy and
disgust, we would endeavour to dispense with
the companionship o f man. I t is in vain that
we rush into the untrodden solitude, and there
pour forth the long hoarded feelings o f our
Digitized byGoogle
200 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
bursting hearts. The rocks and forests answer
us not— soothe us not. And if poets dream they
do, they mistake the echoes of their own over­
wrought imaginations for the responsive voice
of nature. Yes, you are right, Mademoi­
selle, the company of the humblest of our
four-footed creatures is preferable to perpetual
solitude.9
'
Antonia might be said rather to drink in
than to listen to this animated commentary upon
her feelings. It was caviare to the Duke, who
was no more than a sharp, sensible, wily man
of the world, and, consequently, unable to ap­
preciate such feelings; but he began to take
umbrage at the pleasure which they obviously
took in each other’s conversation.
“ All this poetry,” quoth he, sarcastically,
*
*means, I presume, when translated into the
language of common sense, that Monsieur
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 201
Cleveland’s society would be a great improve­
ment on the company of hills, trees, squirrels,
and kittens.’*
Antonia’s countenance was instantly dyed of
the deepest crimson— and this time, her features
wore an expression, which showed that the
blush was the result of pain.
“ Inconceivably strange!” thought Cleveland,
“ that the loss of virtue should be compatible
with the retention of such exquisite sensibility.”
“ A pretty compliment,” resumed the Duke,
“ you have just paid to my powers of com­
panionship— even that beautiful blush shall not
prove your pardon. You confessed yourself
reduced to herd with quadrupeds, and yet
never, in your utmost distress, bethought
yourself of my society.”
“ Ah ! my dear Sir, do not be jealous,” said
Antonia, in her most winning manner. “ But
k S
Digitized by Google
202 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
the truth is, you are the worst companion in
the world for a sentimental young lady— you
are so bitter and hard-hearted in your conver­
sation ; though in your conduct, I freely confess,
that you are kinder to me than any father could
be.”
The word father jarred upon the ears and
feelings of the sexagenarian lover: he made a
gesture expressive of irritation, and said, in an
acrimonious tone: 4
4W ell! instead of so much
fine feeling and poetry, which though they may
mystify the brain, cannot satisfy our hunger,—
suppose you give Monsieur Cleveland and myself
a little substantial refreshment after our long
journey.”
Antonia obeyed this ungracious request with
the utmost cheerfulness, and summoned to her
councils the red-faced housekeeper, of whom we
whilome spake. A splendid collation soon made
its appearance.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 203
A variety of interesting conversation between
the Duke, Cleveland, and Antonia, followed
the repast The young Englishman was much
struck with the extraordinary natural talents
displayed by Antonia. He was astonished at
the liveliness and originality of her conversa­
tion ; but the quality of all others which im­
pressed him with admiration, was the utter
absence of all affectation or conceit— that epi­
demic disease of genius. His commiseration
was soon deeply excited, by the view which he
took of her future fete. To behold so clear and
noble an intellect— so pure and delicate a
spirit, shrined in a form which might have
tempted the sons of God, as of old, to leave
their own bright spheres, and prove the plea­
sures of terrestrial love, — to behold her enter­
ing that fatal career, which must eventually
tarnish her beauty and corrupt her soul,— irre­
sistibly filled him with melancholy. But, by
Digitized by Google
204 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO J
degrees, doubts and suspicions as to the real
nature of her connexion with the Duke, began
to steal over him. He could not reconcile the
unrestrained ease and innocence of her manners
with the position which the Duke represented
her to occupy. If she had fallen, she was
evidently not depraved or vicious. Yet, she
freely approached subjects of conversation,
which, in her supposed situation, the smallest
remains of delicacy would have made her avoid
with the most scrupulous caution.
Every look, word, and tone, indicated the
most perfect tranquillity of conscience: no ex­
ternal wincing betrayed the inward sore. Her
demeanour towards the Duke was affectionate,
but filial; her attachment was obviously that
which a daughter entertains for a father, or a
ward for a guardian ; not that which a mistress
feels, or affects to feel, for a lover. The Duke’s
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 205
manner tended to corroborate the inferences
which Cleveland was disposed to draw from
Antonia’s behaviour: his confusion and irritation
whenever she alluded to the obligations she had
received from him, and the filial gratitude which
she felt in return, seemed to indicate that he
wished her affection to be attributed to other
motives; at least, his strange embarrassment on
these occasions appeared inexplicable upon any
other supposition. But when after much cogi­
tation and infinite reasonings upon the minutest
particulars of her conduct, he at last arrived at
the conclusion, that she was still pure and inno­
cent, an awkward question would suggest itself
how long would she remain in that state ? By
some unknown means she had evidently been
placed in the Duke's power, and was moreover
bound to him by the strong ties of gratitude.
He knew this nobleman, both from the reports
Digitized by Google
206 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
of others, and indeed from his own confession,
was lax in his opinions, and unscrupulous in his
practice,— a rou6, whose best morality was a
sort of systematized selfishness; whose highest
idea of self-denial was the postponement of a
small present pleasure to a greater future one;
the only efficient checks on whose passions were
the legal consequence of his acts: and even the
narrow operation of this restraint was much
diminished by the man's natural physical hardi­
hood, his high rank, his boundless fortune, and
the extensive influence which he enjoyed both
with the court and the magistracy. The laws
of France, anterior to the revolution of seventeen
hundred and eighty-nine, were mere cobwebs,
which entangled only the small flies, and con­
stantly allowed the great ones to break through.
How was an isolated, friendless girl, ever to ob­
tain justice against the powerful, wealthy Duke
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 207
de Fronsac?— the idea was preposterous. He
was not in his own country, where strict and
impartial justice is freely dispensed to every
body who can afford to pay for it. Here an
usurer might lavish his whole fortune in vain, to
procure justice from a court lord: influence
predominated even over money. Y es; Antonia’s
fate, even if not already sealed, was certain, if
she remained much longer in the Duke’s hands.
Well, then, should he advertise the unsuspi­
cious girl of her real situation ? should he warn
her of her peril, and aid her to escape ? At
this conclusion, another train of ideas rushed
across his mind, the result of that selfish and
bitter wisdom, which experience teaches in the
school of disappointment. Why should he in­
terfere ? what business was it of his ? Was it
not the fixed and eternal decree of nature, that
the hawk should tear the dove— that the wolf
Digitized by Google
208 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
should devour the lamb— that the vigorous plant
should absorb the strength and moisture of the
weaker shrub beside it— that the strong and the
powerful, in short, of all kinds and species,
should prey upon and destroy the weak and
helpless? And was he to step forward and
attempt to thwart the operations of this universal
law, and say, “ No act which militates against
my peculiar notions of morality shall be per­
formed within the sphere of my intelligence.”
Idle and ridiculous idea I worse than Quixotic
madness ! Better at once, like La Mancha’s
knight, clap the barber’s bason on his head, and
sally forth on a lean mare, against the surround­
ing windmills,— less extravagant by far than to
approach the enormous mass of human misery—
a mountain to which the highest peak of the
Andes is but a molehill— and plucking from
thence a single pebble, to imagine that he had
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 209
dimished the mountain's bulk. Aye, but sup­
posing that pebble were a precious gem, which
he wished to win for his own coffer? That
would alter the affair, would it not? True,but was
this the case ? Could it be, that he, the apostle
of philosophic indifference— the stoic of the
world of fashion and pleasure— could it be, that
he, without the excuse of boyish blood, was
about to commit the ineffable folly of falling in
love ? Was he again going to pin his heart and
happiness on a girl's sleeve?— no, no; let the
Duke devour his prey in tranquillity — why
should he interfere? Suppose he broke the
meshes of the web which detained the bright
and gilded butterfly, what would be the result?
The spider-like duke would rearrange his plans,
and speedily catch another, as beautiful— no,
not as beautiful— that was impossible, but as
deserving of pity: so, after all, this feat of dis-
Digitized by Google
210 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
interested benevolence and heroic generosity,
would resolve itself into a substitution of one
innocent victim for another, who was not the
first by millions, nor would be the last by
myriads, that was sacrificed to the gratification
ofa stronger fellow-creature. Besides, and above
all, was he certain that she would thank him for
his interference ? Was she so unlike her sister
moths, as to be insensible to the glare of wealth,
the tinsel splendour of rank ? When raised to
the station of mistress to the Duke de Fronsac,
she might be very likely to consider herself as
the most enviable, not the most wretched of
women.
Such were the contradictory reflections that
passed through Cleveland's mind, when he
retired at the close of the day to rest.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN, 211
CH APTER X III.
THE WARNING.
The next morning the Duke asked Cleveland
whether he had passed sufficient time in Anto­
nia’s company to form a fair estimate of her
charms, and to qualify himself to pronounce the
decision which was expected from him respect­
ing the comparative merits of the rival beau­
ties?
Cleveland answered in the affirmative.
The Duke then intimated that he would not
detain him one moment from the pleasures of
Paris.
Digitized by Google
212 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
Cleveland understood the hint, and announced
his intention of immediately returning thither.
Antonia frankly expressed her surprise and re­
gret, that Cleveland would not prolong his visit
The Duke appeared to be animated by the same
feeling, but seemed so convinced of the inflexi­
bility of Cleveland's resolution, that he ab­
stained from all repetition of his entreaties.
On arriving at the village in the vicinity of the
ch&teau, Cleveland reluctantly commenced his
journey. At every step the horses took, fresh argu­
ments against the impolicy and uselessness of in­
terference suggested themselves; but all this time
his inclinations to warn Antonia of her impend­
ing danger were increasing in a still greater
ratio. At last, after he had proceeded four or
five miles, he determined not to put it out of
his power to interfere, in case, after farther con­
sideration of the subject, he should be disposed
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN.
to adopt such a course. With this view he dis­
continued his journey, and alighted at a small
auberge by the road side.
When he had concluded his arrangements
with the landlord, he strolled forth, with the
intention of coming to some determination dur­
ing his walk. Involuntarily, perhaps almost
unconsciously, he began to retrace the road to
the chateau. He had certainly no fixed and
definite plans in taking this path. He had no
scheme to execute when he should have reached
the cli&teau; nevertheless he continued to pace
along; his mind still occupied by contending
thoughts, without being able to arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion. At the expiration of
two hours he had reached the summit of the
hill, which was described as overlooking the
chateau. He now no longer, as when he first
stood on that eminence, surveyed the prospect
Digitized by Google
214 COUNT CAGL108TR0 :
below, but fixed bis eager gaze on the chateau
and its surrounding inclosures, with feelings
that he was ashamed to analyse or define. Why
had he returned to that spot? A mocking
spirit seemed to ask him what was his real
motive ? Was it not a vague half-formed wish
to see Antonia once more? Was she not in
truth the magnet which had attracted him
thither? Had then all the philosophic vows
and resolutions which he had sworn in the hour
of bitterness and disappointment melted into
thin air ? Did not the present moment see him
sculking about a mansion, where he was not
wanted nor invited, in the hopes of catching a
short and furtive glance of one who had never
given him the smallest encouragement? Indig­
nant at his weakness, for such his conduct now
appeared to him, he turned to depart.
By what infinitely slight events is the whole
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 215
future course of our destiny directed ! Upon
what inexpressibly trivial accidents hangs the
misery or die happiness of half a century of
coming existence! He turned to depart. A
minute more had seen him gain the other side
of the hill; he would have retraced his road to
the auberge in hasty anger at hi9 own indecision
and vacillation, would have set off for Paris by
the next conveyance, and would have forgotten
the whole affair in a week. He turned to
depart,— but before his lingering and reverted
eye had quite lost sight of the grounds which
surrounded the ch&teau, he espied a female
figure strolling at their extreme verge. He felt
certain it was Antonia. In an instant his former
decision was reversed. Hitherto his mind had
been swayed to and fro by inclinations and
ideas of almost equal weight and power. A new
impression strikes his senses: the idea is con-
Digitized by Google
216 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
veyed into his mind, flung into the wavering
balance, and the scale is turned. He made a
circuit to avoid the observation of the inmates
of the ch&teau, and soon arrived at the spot.
His conjecture proved to be well founded. It
was Antonia. She seemed also to be wandering
in a musing meditating mood.
Her eyes were fixed on the ground. At his
approach she raised them,— a smile of pleasure
irradiated her face; Cleveland saluted her.
“ Ah !” cried she, “ to what lucky accident
do we owe this unexpected pleasure? Have
you yielded to the Baron’s entreaties to renew
your visit ?”
“ I came hither, Mademoiselle, uninvited.
The Baron, as you call him, dreaded nothing so
much as that I should prolong my visit;— had I
complied with his feigned entreaties, he would
speedily have retracted them.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 217
u I presume,” said Antonia coldly, “ the
Baron has excellent reasons for his conduct.”
“ No doubt,” observed Cleveland, " he has
reasons strong and sufficient—for their moral
excellence I think you can hardly vouch.”
" May I ask, Monsieur, if your sole purpose
in coming hither was to insult my best friend
and benefactor?”
“ Your attachment, then, is founded on grati­
tude— no warmer sentiment has mingled with
your feelings ?”
“ What warmer sentiment,” replied Antonia,
growing somewhat irritated at the continuance
of this strange conversation, “ what warmer
sentiment can exist than the affection borne
towards a father by the child of his adoption ?”
“ Poor innocence! ” muttered Cleveland,
“ you will be soon taught to feel or feign a
deeper and stronger emotion.— You do not
VOL. I. L
Digitized by Google
218 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
then wish or aspire to be the Baroness de
Voisenon ?”
“ By what right,” replied Antonia, “ do you
put such strange and idle questions? But if
the gratification of such frivolous curiosity can
give you pleasure, know that I entertain no
other feelings to the Baron but those of gratitude
and filial affection.”
“ I presume then, Mademoiselle,” continued
Cleveland, “ that you have still less inclination
to become his mistress ?”
“ Begone, Sir,” exclaimed Antonia, her eyes
sparkling and her cheek crimsoned with indig­
nation. “ Begone; I deserved this when I
continued to listen to you after you had spoken
slightingly of the Baron. The man who can
malign his absent friend, may well take pleasure
in insulting an unprotected female.”
“ Listen to me, young lady. The man whom
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 219
you fondly rely upon as your parent, has not
even communicated to you his real name and
station. He is no other than the celebrated
Duke de Fronsac—a name renowned in the
annals of gallantry. He represented you to me
as his mistress— start not, but hear me. The
confident innocence of your manner excited my
doubts as to the reality of the fact. Some traits
in the Duke’s behaviour confirmed my suspi­
cions. I determined to apprize you of your
condition; I have accomplished my design, and
I now bid you adieu.”
" Stay, Sir, one moment,” said Antonia
faintly; " Oh God ! my brain turns round !—
what proof can you give of this horrible tale,
that I should all at once cease to confide in one
I have trusted so long?”
“ None,” answered Cleveland coldly; “ disbe­
lieve me if you like, till time confirms my story.”
l 2
Digitized by Google
220 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Pardon me, Sir, I naturally believe with
bitter reluctance a statement that deprives me
of the only friend I possess in the world. If
the Baron be, indeed, the cruel profligate you
describe him, allow me to say that I only know
you as his intimate and chosen companion;— it
is not an unjust rule by which we form an opi­
nion of a man from his voluntary associates.
Your pursuits and amusements can hardly be
very different from his own ;— why should you
feel such indignation against what must be a
common occurrence in both your lives, as to
induce you to take part against your friend ?'
“ Faith! I scarcely know myself,” returned
Cleveland, “ if it is not the worst act I ever
performed, neither is it the wisest. Had the
Duke wooed you openly to become his leman, as
our old ballads say, you would have heard no
homilies from me when you had accepted his
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 221
suit; but I thought you had hardly the fair
average chance of escape or resistance, when
unaware of your position; nevertheless, pray
impute my interference to what motive you will
— a sudden fit of officiousness— a passing whim—
an idle freak, derived from a natural instinctive
love of fair play;— and this reason is perhaps
the true one.”
“ Would, Sir,” rejoined Antonia, in an agony
of indecision, “ would that you had either never
awakened these suspicions of my benefactor, for
such I must still call him, or else had proof
sufficient to confirm them. Is it possible to
conceive, that any human being could for years
keep heaping favours on another only to destroy
him at last ? ’
“ Yes,” quietly replied Cleveland, “ it is very
conceivable. The custom is not even peculiar
to civilized people; the cannibals are wont to
fatten their victims before they devour them.”
Digitized by Google
222 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ You do not regard the services of the Baron
in that light: my father was his friend, an Ita­
lian nobleman, who died suddenly in embarrassed
circumstances. The Baron has supplied his
place with more than a parent’s care— educated,
protected me: no, no— I cannot, will not, doubt
him. I would rather persist in the belief of his
truth and goodness, than owe my escape to the
violation of all the most cherished feelings which
have hitherto constituted my happiness. Fare­
well, Sir; I do not impugn your motives, but I
will trust rather to deeds and actions, than to
unsupported suspicions and surmises.”
“ Be it so, Mademoiselle; I expected no other
result from my thankless mission. If, in the
meanwhile, a new spirit should come over your
sole protector— the innocent and single-minded
Baron— and should you find his future conduct
savour more of gallantry than benevolence, you
may possibly be at a loss for allies. I do not
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 223
call myself a friend; I am not anxious to force
myself on you as such; but if my money,
advice, or protection, can avail you, fear not to
remind me of my present offer. I live in the
Rue de Bourgogne, Paris; Mademoiselle, I
have the honour to wish you a very good day.”
With these words he departed, little satisfied
with the impression he had produced on Made­
moiselle Antonia’s mind; but more than ever
convinced of her exceeding and superlative
beauty.
The reader may, perhaps, be surprised at the
cold and even callous tone adopted by our hero
during the foregoing interview. But Cleveland
took a morbid and perverse pleasure in affecting
an appearance of apathy and insensibility. A
portion only of this character was genuine. No
doubt many of his feelings were seared by dis­
appointment, or worn-out by premature and
Digitized by Google
224 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
overwrought excitement; but he was very far
from being the cold-blooded marble-hearted
man that he delighted to represent himself.
By the premature death of his parents, Cleve­
land was left at an early age uncontrolled master
of himself and a handsome fortune.
He was immediately surrounded by a host of
friends, who all seemed eager to instruct him in
the art of enjoying life and spending money.
Conscious of possessing many engaging personal
qualities, Cleveland thought all this attachment
exceedingly natural, and the idea of imputing
any portion of it to selfish or designing motives
never entered his head. What a career was
before him ! What a delightful world seemed
to him this planet called earth ! Bold and im­
petuous, fearing nothing but dulness, thirsting
after excitement,— let him but catch a glimpse
of aught that wore the appearance of pleasure,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 225
and he rushed at the object, as a young Hon
flings himself on his prey. We have said he was
courageous by nature; had he been menaced on
every side by pains and perils, he would still
have stood firm and undaunted; but fenced as
he was with such triple armour against the shafts
of misfortune, and placed in an Eden of hope
and happiness, was it to be wondered at if he
felt himself invincible to care or sorrow ?—if, in
the plenitude of his youth, strength, popularity,
and riches, he bid defiance to all earthly ills ?
He doubted the very existence of evil. 1 rue,
he sometimes met even in his gay circle with
hollow eyes and furrowed cheeks, and voices
whose tones were dreary, and spoke of past
misfortune. But what of them? They were
biUous or ill-tempered. True, as he sometimes
caracolled on his fiery steed along the sunny
highway, he was startled by the aspect of disease
l S
Digitized byGoogle
226 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
and misery—what of that?— the poor wretch
was an exception to the general law of happiness.
Then flinging to the beggar an amount of pecu­
niary relief which made the mendicant deem
his benefactor either mad or drunk, he chased
the unpleasant image from his mind, and passed
on to new pleasures. No— no—misfortune and
sorrow could never reach him;—his own re­
sources were immense—inexhaustible— and even
should they be drained by his boundless pro­
digality, had he not a crowd of friends, who
would all lay down their lives and fortunes to
serve him ? He could not for a moment doubt
they would— they had told him so themselves!
No marvel that he was popular among his
associates. Was any costly scheme of pleasure
suggested to Cleveland, he never rested till he
had executed it. Was a villa on the Thames
to be purchased for some summer amusement—
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 227
MCleveland’s your man.” Was a magnificent
fete to be given to all London, with the laud­
able intention of utterly blasting a score of
obnoxious individuals, who were to be excluded
from it, or of putting one or two leaders of
fashion to a slow death, by the lingering pangs
of envy— “ Cleveland will enjoy the idea.”
Did an economical admirer of ihe old masters
lament his inability to purchase some gem of
Coreggio or Titian— “ Get Cleveland to buy it ;
he will be tired of it in a month, and sell it you
for the value of the frame.” But for all this,
Cleveland had his reward. He was unani­
mously pronounced, by a band of impartial,
disinterested friends, to be the finest fellow in
the world. What head could withstand such
intoxicating flattery? On spurred Cleveland,
and, the faster he galloped along the road to
ruin, the more animating were the cheers,
Digitized byGoogle
228 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
and the more deafening were the huzzas.
When he got to the end, the applause ceased.
The mode in which this event took place was as
follows. A dear friend of Cleveland’s had a
favourite racer, who for two years bad carried
all before him. As an ingenious device of
extricating Cleveland from his embarrassment,
he proposed that the latter should purchase, at
a considerable sum, this phoenix of horses;
assuring him, that he was the only person in
the world whom he could endure to see in the
possession of such an inestimable treasure.
The result may be guessed. Cleveland bought
the horse, backed it largely, and, for the first
time since its birth, the animal was distanced.
Dispirited at his ill luck, Cleveland called on
his brother in misfortune, the seller, who he
supposed had backed the animal to a greater
amount than himself. Never was a man more
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 229
mistaken. By a sudden inspiration of prudence,
the friend had reversed all his plans about a
week before the race, and though he had not
thought it worth while to communicate so trivial
a fact to Cleveland, he now asked that young
gentleman to wish him joy of his success.
Cleveland could not refrain from some bitter
remarks. The friend retaliated by the utmost
rudeness. Cleveland demanded satisfaction,
and received it in the shape of a bullet in the
hip. During the first days of his illness, he
wrote to a young lady to whom he was engaged
to be married, and, after apprizing her of the
loss of the greater part of his fortune, released
her from all the promises which she had entered
into with him. At the same time he intimated,
that if he could persuade her to voluntarily
renew their past engagement, he should deem
his other misfortunes of little consequence.
Digitized byGoogle
230 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
His fever increased so much, that it was
thought advisable to keep back the answer.
At last the leaden pellet of satisfaction was
extracted, and the patient began to recover.
On leaving his sick room, the first news that
saluted his ears, was the marriage of his jockey
friend to his betrothed. The effect of this blow
was at first overwhelming. He shut himself up
in a dark room, and determined to turn misan­
thrope, like Timon of old. Accustomed to a
round of perpetual excitement, he found this
occupation unendurably d u ll; so he cleaned
and furbished his duelling pistols, and began to
moralize about suicide. What step he might
next have taken, it is impossible to say. His
lucky star saved him the trouble of deciding,
and once more placed at his disposal the means
which he had so recklessly flung away.
A man of science, who thought the greatest
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 2S1
happiness in life consisted in chipping off the
corners of rocks, and then ascertaining, by a
difficult, tedious, and troublesome process, of
what elements they were composed—in other
words, an eminent mineralogist—had, a short
time back, requested permission of Cleveland
to examine and inspect one of his deeply mort­
gaged estates in Cornwall.
Cleveland, who laboured under a physical
incapability of saying no—who never refused
any request, whether reasonable or the reverse,
of course granted his consent. The mineralo­
gist fell to work with his accustomed activity.
Prying, poking, and chipping, with ceaseless
vigilance, in every hole, nook, cranny, corner,
slip, chasm, and cave, that the county contained;
and then pulverizing, fusing, dissolving, preci­
pitating, filtrating, and weighing the chips,
Digitized byGoogle
282 COUNT CAGLIQ8TRO:
with as much care and anxiety as if his
life depended on the particular number of
grains of silica and alumina which each frag­
ment contained. He had not pursued this
exciting avocation more than a few days, when
he discovered a tin mine, where no human
being had ever suspected one before. A mining
company greedily bought the property, at an
enormous price, and Cleveland, after paying all
his incumbrances, found himself a richer man
than ever.
His first care was to present the scientific
rock-chipper with a munificent present. His
second, was to determine what course of conduct
ha should pursue on his return to the world.
He arrived at the sage conclusion, as is usual in
these cases, that the reverse of wrong must be
perfectly right. “ I can neither live in a dark
room, nor in the desert, like Timon. I quite
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 233
agree with Apemantus, a gentleman can’t
dispense with servants.
------ “ 4What, think’st
That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,
Will put thy shirt on warm ? Will these mossed trees,
That have outlivedthe eagle, page thy heels,
And skip when thou point’st out ? Will the cold brook,
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste,
To cure thy o’emight’s surfeitV
I must live with mankind; but henceforth my
intercourse shall be regulated on a new prin-
ciple. They are excellent acquaintance, but
dangerous friends. I will amuse myself with
them as companions, but will never again
sacrifice my interests in the hope of winning
their attachment. It is a bad speculation to
attempt to purchase sympathy.”
Cleveland might imaginethese sentiments to be
the effect of philosophy, guided by experience;
but they were, in truth, the result of pride and
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
284
wounded feelings. Nothing annoyed him more,
than to insinuate that he was at all affected by
the perfidy and defalcation of his friends. The
more he suffered, the more anxious was he to
conceal his pain, under the mask of insensibility
and carelessness. He could not endure that
they who had trampled on his tenderest feel­
ings, should farther insult him, either by pity or
scorn.
Society was completely deceived, and never
entertained the slightest suspicion of the tumul­
tuous host of angry and lacerated emotions
which were struggling and writhing beneath
that imperturbably calm exterior. No doubt
time, the only comforter where the heart hath
bled,” at last assuaged the bitterness of his
feelings; but Cleveland’s youthful eagerness,
and excitability of character, never returned.
He had become remarkable by his peculiar
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 285
manners. Perhaps vanity had induced him
to retain them. Perhaps, though his wounded
spirit was healed, there still remained a tender­
ness and soreness about the scar, which made
him shrink from intimate and familiar contact
with mankind. Perhaps he gratified some
secret grudge, which lurked at the bottom of
his heart against mankind, by showing a con­
temptuous indifference to all that excited their
hopes, fears, sympathy, and admiration.
Digitized by Google
236 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO .*
CH APTE R XIV.
THE DECISION.
At length the day arrived on which Cleveland
had promised to pronounce his decision. The
party who had assembled at the Duke de
Fronsac’s hotel, were pretty nearly the same as
on the previous occasion. Cleveland came late.
Hardly were the common salutations over,
when his opinion on the respective beauties
was eagerly demanded.
“ Hail, gentle Paris!” cried the Chevalier
de Crespigny, in a mock-heroic voice; “ to
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 287
which deity hast thou assigned the apple ? to
the goddess of the town or country ?”
“ I have no hesitation in saying, that the
young lady to whom I had the honour of being
introduced by the Duke de Fronsac, very far
exceeds in beauty the celebrated LaGabrielle— ”
A shout of admiration, for which it would be
difficult to discover any reasonable cause, fol­
lowed this announcement.
The Marquis de Montolieu bit his lip, and
said: “ Monsieur Cleveland, you had not
finished speaking;— you were about to add
something.”
“ Yes,” replied Cleveland; “ since I have
undertaken this office, it is expedient I should
perform it with justice. I still entertain some
doubts, whether our noble host can in strict­
ness claim the victory, and call upon his anta­
gonist to pay the bet’’
Digitized by Google
238 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
" Explain yourself,” cried a dozen voices.
“ The Duke de Fronsac described the lady,
on whose beauty the bet was laid, as being
under his protection; using that phrase, not in
its moral and literal acceptation, but in its most
significant and fashionable sense. Now, the
lady does indeed appear to be under his pro­
tection, but, as far as I could judge from her
manners and conversation, is not, in plain
terms, his mistress.”
“ This changes the whole affair,” said the
Marquis de Montolieu, “ and must be ex­
plained.”
“ The Duke is accused of virtue,” 'observed
Beaumarchais; “ he must instantly vindicate
his character from so heinous an imputation.”
“ Who,” exclaimed the Chevalier de Cres-
pigny, “ that knew the Duke de Fronsac, could
ever have anticipated that he would one day
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 239
fall a victim to his own morality, and lose a
thousand louis by his excessive chastity ?”
“ The most dissolute martyr that I ever had
the honour to form an acquaintance with !”
exclaimed Count D’Ostalis, taking a pinch of
snuff.
“ A rare and exquisite trait of modern man­
ners !” said Crespigny. “ There has been
nothing like it since the days of Scipio.”
“ Beaumarchais!” cried another, “ do not
let such self-sacrificing virtue be lost to posterity
for want of an historian. I conjure you, by
the memory of the eleven thousand virgins, to
publish a short account of the matter. You
can entitle it the u Continence of the Duke de
Fronsac,” or u The Grape-bearing Thistle.”
“ Gentleman,*’ said the Duke de Fronsac,
u I am sorry to stop the present current of
sparkling things, even though it is flowing
Digitized by Google
240 COUNT CAGLIOSTHO:
against myself. But as the Marquis de Mon-
tolieu requires, and is in fact entitled to, an
explanation, I will give it. The young lady
whom I introduced to Monsieur Cleveland, is
indeed, as he has intimated, a true maiden,
pure and spotless, and intact; and the discovery of
thefactdoesremarkablehonour tohis penetration.
But is she on that account not to be considered
as mine, when I have absolute and complete
controul over her destiny ? Circumstances
have placed her in my power as effectually as
this fragile glass, which I hold in my hand ;
and I can make her mine, in any sense, when­
ever I please. Can it be said that the delicacies
which crown our festive table— which were
purchased by us, and prepared for us— which
only await the first revival of our languid ap­
petite—are not our own, because we have not
actually devoured them ? Will it be said that
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 241
the fruit tree, which we have trained up, and
cultivated with unceasing care, in the most
sheltered recess of our garden, is not our own
before we have plucked the produce ?”
u A very instructive and philosophical paral­
lel,” observed Count D*Ostalis, with great
gravity.
“ Humph !” said the Marquis; “ a meal
can’t elope from your board; nor a fruit tree
climb over your garden-walls; but a young
lady may do both.”
“ Nay,” cried the Chevalier de Crespigny;
“ I think De Fronsac’s argument fair and
plausible enough.”
“ The matter,” said the young Vicomte de
Valmont, with affected solemnity, “ had better
be submitted to the parliament of Paris.”
“ No !” interrupted Beaumarchais ; “ the
question is too delicate and dignified for the
VOL. I. M
Digitized by Google
242 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
decision of the lawyers. I say, refer the case
to the Sorbonne.”
“ I demur to that proposition,” cried the
Duke, laughing; “ the right reverend theolo­
gians would all demand a personal interview
with the personages of the case; and I fear
they would corrupt my little angel. What say
you, Marquis ? would you trust them with La
Gabrielle ?”
“ Be assured,” interposed the Chevalier,
“ they would never ask to see La Gabrielle.
No doubt most of them are well acquainted
with her already. La Gabrielle, with her
wild imagination, is just the girl to have
patronized an archbishop, from an innocent
love of variety.”
A thousand similar impertinences followed
these sallies. At last the indelicate controversy
was settled, by a suggestion of the Chevalier
Digitized by Google
OR* THE CHARLATAN. 248
de Crespigny. He proposed, that when De
Fronsac should declare the fruit to be plucked,
that the Marquis should pay the amount of the
bet; but until that event should take place, the
wager should be considered as undecided.
m 2
Digitized by Google
244 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
CH APTER XV.
LETTER I.
My dear M arquis,—
So you call yourself old! old forsooth !
Old at fifty!— no, my dear Marquis, you are
not old, but certainly mad to talk or dream
of old age at fifty. Why fifty is the prime
of life !— the meridian of existence! Nay,
if you doubt the assertion, I will prove it to
you. Suppose a man of good constitution,
guarded by some supernatural power against all
external accidents and internal disease;— pray
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 245
how long would such an individual live before
he died of downright old age?—why a hundred
years at least This period, then, is the natural
term of human life.
I admit that very few attain this advanced
age, because a thousand plaguy diseases cutpeople
short before their whole thread is unravelled.
Look how fever, consumption, and a host of
other ghastly tyrants, mow us down like grass.
Nevertheless, I repeat my assertion, that if
these frail machines of flesh and blood, which
we call our bodies, could be secured against all
accidental and premature causes of death, and
were allowed to puff in and out the vital air in
peace and safety, until they gradually tumbled
to pieces before the mouldering touch of our
only legitimate and inevitable destroyer, extreme
old age, a century and upwards would be the
ordinary space of human life.
Digitized by Google
246 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
What, then, do you mean by writing to me
about the dark and lengthening shadows which
every object at your time of life must be ex­
pected to wear ? Our time, of life, forsooth !
Have I not proved that our time of life is the
meridian of existence? Well, then, there can
be no shadows at twelve o’clock in the day; the
thing is astronomically impossible. When you
fancy you see shadows, you are in reality con­
templating the gloom of your own mind. It is
the darkness of your own eye that makes the
scene appear obscured.
You tell me you no longer feel sufficient
spirits and activity to carry on intrigues. Ad­
mitting the fact, what is the moral? Simply
this, that you must henceforth manage to pro­
cure pleasure without intrigue. In fact, the
trouble of wooing a woman in due form,— of
breathing ardent sighs and whispering tender
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 247
speeches, is only fit for boys of twenty, who are
oppressed with a superabundance of life. Men
of our age (that is, in the prime of life) ought
not to waste their vitality in such unprofitable
gambols. Not that I like ready-made love
either. That dish is only suited to the glutton,
and would speedily disgust refined epicures like
us. What course remains to be adopted, you
will then ask? In answer to this question, I
will relate to you a trifling passage in my life,
over which I trust you will ponder, and grow
wise by example.
Four years ago, I chanced to be travelling
through the Papal States. In passing through
a hamlet on the road to Perugia, one of the
wheels of my carriage came off, and I was forced
to halt till the injury could be repaired. My
vehicle was dragged to the village blacksmith.
As I was watching the slow processes of the
Digitized by Google
248 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
furnace and anvil, a child’9 shrieks were loudly
heard. The door of the smithy was thrown
open, and in rushed a young girl, pursued by a
furious virago, who was brandishing aloft a for­
midable stick.
The former, in an agony of terror, cowered
at my feet, clasped my knees, and entreated me
to save her; before I could interpose, the wo­
man— (in fact she was so absorbed by rage that
I do not think she saw me) — came up with the
object of her pursuit, and aimed a tremendous
stroke at her head. It took effect, however, not
on the girl’s head, but on my unfortunate leg.
The blow nearly swept me off the ground. For
five minutes I swore at her in good native
French; for the Italian oaths did not come fast
enough for the occasion. At last, when I
became sufficiently cool to use the imprecations
of her own language, I asked the woman how
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 249
she could be such an execrable brute as to strike
her daughter with a cudgel, which, however
well it might be adapted for the fustigation of
her own brawny shoulders, could not be applied
to a tender girl without endangering her life.
Frightened at her mistake, and half ashamed of
her cruelty, she mumbled in a deprecating tone
that the child was none of her’s. The smith,
hearing his wife attacked on this point, came
forward and said, “ Monsignore, it is a hard
thing to support the burthen of a child which is
not your own” “ How,” said I, “ not your
own ?” “ No, Monsignore; she was brought
here by a holy father, nearly ten years ago,
seemingly only a few weeks old. He bid us
take all manner of care of the infant, and gave
us a handsome sum of money. He then told us
he would call again that day six months, and
give us as much more. The father punctually
m 3
Digitized by Google
250 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
returned on the appointed day, asked if the
child was well, put down the money, and set off
again without interchanging another word with
us. We think the girl must be the by-blow of
some fine lady.” 4
4Why, then,” said I, 4
4how
is the child a burthen to you; you are well paid
for your care?” 4
4Ay, so we were for eight
good years, and then nobody could treat the
child better than we did; but for the last two
years we have never seen monk or money.”
4
4And since that period, it is evident that nobody
could have treated the child worse,” rejoined I.
4
4Why, no, Monsignore; the child is a good
child, and we like her well enough; but times
are hard, and we have children of our own;
and Marguerite, though a good creature in the
main, yet is a little hasty now and then.”
4
4Hasty, indeed !” quoth I, still rubbing the
injured member. I forget what answer the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 251
smith made, for by this time I had begun to
contemplate the girl, who watched in trembling
anxiety the result of my interference. I
thought I had never seen anything so beautiful.
There she stood, her long black curls hanging
in picturesque dishevelment over her trans­
parent brow; her cheek crimsoned with exer­
tion; her bright eyes shining with redoubled
lustre through the crystal tears, which their
long silken lashes detained. Her figure, though
as yet childish, gave promise of the greatest
beauty, when a few years should have developed
the characteristics of womanhood. The sight
was touching. Suddenly a bright idea flashed
upon me. Here was beauty, greater than that
which had turned the heads of kings, and
influenced the destinies of mankind, kicked and
tossed about the world, and cudgelled every day
like a jackass. Why should I not stretch out
Digitized by Google
252 COUNT CAOLIOSTEO :
my talons, and claw up this lovely unappropr*»
ated morsel as my own property. Like you,
my dear Marquis, I \ad begun to weary of the
trouble and the risk which intrigue required;
and yet was too nice to content myself with the
beauty which is openly sold in the market to
the highest bidder. Here was an admirable
opportunity to make my own, an Helen, who,
when once seen and known, could not be
carried off without encountering a world of
fatigue, and outfacing a world of rivals. I
might easily take this young girl under my
protection, and educate her, until she was as
accomplished in mind as she was beautiful in
body. The thought was no sooner conceived
than executed. I offered Vulcan to take the
child off his hands. He gladly caught at the
idea. 'Oie bargain was soon arranged; and,
for the moderate sum of ten crowns, I secured
the prize. So much for the story. Now for
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 258
the moral. V irtue, you see, is its own reward.
M y foresight and patience are now about to
reap an ample reward. T h e pretty child has
expanded into a beauty fit to drive you mad.
A n d now I hold in my grasp a treasure, which
the power o f kings m ight fail to procure.
For where will you find beauty and accom­
plishment, united to the most perfect innocence,
and, from the force o f circumstances, ready to
surrender without the bribe of matrimony ?
D o you feel inspired by the spirit o f imitation,
or is your m elancholy so invincible as to inca^
pacitate you from following in my track ? W rite
soon, and send me better news o f yourself.
DE FRONSAC.
LETTER II.
M y dear M arquis,
So your curiosity is excited by the
account which I have given o f my Italian
Digitized byGoogle
254 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
heroine. Y o u want to hear some farther details
respecting her character and person. Y o u are
desirous to know how I have educated her, and
so forth. I have no objection to satisfy your
inquiries, though, perhaps, it would have been
more prudent to have always maintained silence
on the subject. In fact, I experience a strange
pleasure in talking about her. W h at an in­
consistent feeling is that which urges us to
boast of* a treasure, which we most jealously
seclude even from the eyes o f our most intimate
acquaintance. W e are well aware, that the
knowledge o f our possession, at the best, will
only excite envy, and will perhaps endanger
the safety o f our hoard. Still we cannot bridle
our exultation, nor refrain from putting forth
these hazardous vaunts. N ow , then, for some
account o f Antonia’s education. I begin with
that which m ay be called the physical part o f it.
In this respect, nature had done much for
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 255
Antonia, and it was easy to second her efforts.
I was determined she should never resemble
the sickly, artificial, padded, painted beauties,
who totter, for they cannot walk, through the
drawing-rooms o f Paris. W e may compliment
such women, when we m ingle with them in
the illuminated saloon; but, in spite o f our
affected adoration, we have but little desire to
meet them elsewhere. T here is no real and
perm anently pleasing beauty without health
and strength. T o these points, therefore, I
particularly directed the attention o f her at­
tendants. Facilities were afforded for every
sort o f active exercise; and no difficulty was
found in inducing the pupil to avail herself o f
them.
Youthful health delights in activity and
m otion; and the superabundant vitality o f
young limbs would no doubt impel girls, as
Digitized byGoogle
256 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
well as boys, to perpetual muscular exertion,
were not the former restrained by the sapient
admonitions o f some, starched governante,
who compels them to sit the livelong day as
motionless as stone Saints in their niches, under
the idea o f im proving their manners. W hat a
mistake to suppose that exercise renders the
figure coarse and clumsily rob u st! T h e partial
and unvarying exertions required in some o f
the avocations o f the labouring classes, may
have this effect; but the spontaneous changing
motion o f every part o f the frame in turn, which
is dictated by nature, conduces as much to
grace and beauty, as to vigour and health.
W ell, be this as it may, my system has thriven
wonderfully with Antonia. H er every move­
ment is free and unrestrained. H er walk is as
easy and graceful as that o f a young fawn.
O h ! how unlike the stiff, m incing, affected
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 257
gait o f which the Parisian women are so proud.
French tournure, forsooth ! certainly very dif­
ferent from nature’s tournure, and no doubt
very *superior. A las ! alas ! will there ever
arise a race upon this earth, so civilized as to
discover that theycann ot im prove upon nature?
A s for her face, and figure, it is in vain for me
to attem pt their delineation. T h e pen cannot
describe them— no, nor the pencil neither. I f
you were a young painter, m adly in love for
the first time, I would tell you to im agine it,
but nobody else could. E ve, when she came
fresh from the hands o f her M aker, could not
have been more beautiful. I gaze on her with
an admiration so intense, and perfect, and feel
such an unbounded luxury in the contemplation,
that I almost sigh to reflect, that a time will
come when possession will have dulled the
ardour o f my feelings. I sometimes think, I
Digitized byGoogle
2 5 8 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
had better admire on for ever, and not risk so
fine and delicate a pleasure by seeking a fuller,
and more palpable enjoyment. N ow turn we
to the education o f her m ind and disposition.
F or after all, beauty, though an indispensable
requisite in a mistress, is not the only, nor even
the greatest source o f lasting attraction. 1—
even I— a notorious sensualist— a professed
rou6— a doater on the voluptuous swell, and
rounded contour— even I confess, that it is the
power o f the m ind within, and not the external
form— all lovely as it may be— which captivates.
B y this expression, I do not mean mere intel­
lectual ability— a knowledge o f physics, or
metaphysics, or a genius for the fine arts, I
mean b y this term, a double portion o f inform­
ing spirit— o f vitality, which overflows in an
intense perception o f what is beautiful, and an
exquisite sensibility to pleasurable sensations.
Digitized byGoogle
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 259
Such was the disposition which I wished
Antonia to possess. W ith this object I sur­
rounded her with every thing that would
stimulate the imagination, and awaken the
senses. T h e accomplishments, in which I
caused her to be instructed, were all made
conducive to this end. I took care, indeed, to
select masters, who from their age and ugliness
were not likely to play the part o f Abelard.
But, in drawing, the most voluptuous designs
and statues were given to her, as models to copy.
In music the most m elting and soul-subduing
airs were chosen for her performance. Books,
however, are the agents which exert the most
potent influence over a m ind brought up in
solitude. A n d what sort o f works do you think
I gave her? I am almost ashamed to relate my
wickedness. I turned her loose into m y library,
and gave her unlimited access to every author.
Digitized byGoogle
260 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
W ell, where was the harm ? I set her in a
garden, where there grew wholesome fruits, as
well as poisonous plants. T h e bane and the
antidote were both before her. I left her at
liberty to choose between what was good, and
what was evil; I did not bid her hang for
hours over the pages o f poetry and lo v e : I
did not suggest to her the study o f those
comfortable sophists, who swear that practical
philosophy consists in the indulgence o f our
passions. / never recommended to her perusal
those moral novelists, who, during nine-tenths
o f their works, excite the imagination by the
warmest descriptions, and then think they have
sufficiently guarded their readers against the
inflammatory effect, by the cold insipid moral
contained in the last page. H er will was fr e e ;
and if the serpent o f desire and curiosity coiled
round her heart, and stifled her discretion, was
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 261
that m y fault? Could any Christian soul con­
demn m y conduct ? B u t what is the result o f
the system upon A ntonia? W hy precisely
what you m ight have anticipated. She is a
glorious illustration o f what I was vainly endea­
vouring to explain, in the first part o f my letter.
She is the most lively and susceptible o f human
beings. M ind and body are alike strung to
the highest pitch o f sensibility: the slightest
expression o f disapprobation will instantly pale
the ruby glow o f her cheek.— U tter a sound o f
kindness, or praise, and her quick blushes will
tell you more eloquently, than words, how keen
a pleasure she experiences. A look will suffice
to make her happy or miserable. H er education
has been the reverse o f that which is generally
given to women o f rank. T h e convent is their
school; there they are brought up, as it
were, in a moral icehouse. E very thing
Digitized byGoogle
262 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
that can inspire romance, or kindle desire,
is rigidly excluded. T h ey grow up as
cold as polar plants. T h e boon promised
for their self-restraint is the hope o f a splendid
alliance. Thus, no strong feeling is allowed to
flourish in the bosom. Y o u w ill nevertheless
tell me, that the court o f Louis the Sixteenth,
is as dissipated as any in Europe. T ru e ; but
this does not arise from the temperament o f the
women, but from the license o f the times.
Exam ine the motives o f these fair libertines,
and you will find them to be founded on avarice
and vanity. W hen these feelings are absent,
they generally remain chaste— not from the
love o f virtue, but from the want o f passion.
Parbleu ! I would rather wed St. Anthony’s
wife o f snow, than live tete-a-tete for a week
with one o f these passionless sinners, or still
more passionless prudes. O h what a contrast
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 263
to A n to n ia ! A t this moment I am feeding m y
eyes on her fair proportions. She is playing on
the harp. I feel life and warmth communicated
to me by her presence, as palpably and as dis­
tinctly, as sounds are conveyed to m y ears from
the instrument which she so gracefully touches.
B ut she has ceased playing, and challenges me
to take a walk. I must break off.
DE FRONSAC.
LETTER IIT.
M y dear M arquis,
W hat do I intend to do with her?
W ell done, innocence ! It is refreshing to hear
the libertine o f h alf a century, propound such
a pure, simple, naif question, to a brother
ro u e ! D o with her ? let your own con­
science answer the question. W hat would
Digitized byGoogle
264 , COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
you do? or rather what h a v e you done, with
every pretty girl you were fortunate enough to
get within your clutches ? But n o! you are
candid enough to confess, what indeed is noto­
rious to the whole world, that you have been a
terrible fellow in your time. But then, it ap­
pears, that all your wickedness was committed
on the spur of the moment, as occasion tempted
you. And as no sinner can endure any but
his own peculiar style of vice, you disapprove of
my systematic deliberate seduction, coolly pre­
meditated beforehand. But, my virtuous friend,
if there is no harm in shooting a pheasant, when
you meet it in the field, there can’t be much
villainy in keeping a preserve. Prithee spare
me any farther expostulations on the subject.
In the first place, I suspect morality to be a
somewhat scarce and precious article with you.
It is therefore a pity to waste it upon an incor-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 265
rigible sinner like myself. Secondly, whatever
be your amount of the commodity, you certainly
need the whole stock for your own private use.
Besides, joking apart, all attempts to deter me
from the execution of my piquant and well
imagined schemes, are useless. If any thing
could have won me from my purpose, the man­
ners and conduct of the girl herself would long
ago have had that effect. Her feelings towards
me exhibit so much pure, genuine affection.
Her voice and demeanour, whenever we talk
about the future* display such entire and inno­
cent confidence in the goodness and kindness
of the fictitious plans I sometimes affect to ar­
range for her, that I am almost touched. An
uneasy compunctious sentiment seems to circle
round my heart, and impedes for a moment the
due circulation of my blood. But I have only
to throw a moment’s glance at her rounded arm,
VOL. i. n
Digitized by Google
266 COUNT CAGLI08TR0 :
her indescribable ancle, any part, in short, of her
angelic figure; and an overwhelming torrent of
desire sweeps away the troublesome feeling, with
as much ease as a regiment of guards disperse
a half-starved mob shouting for bread and li­
berty. However, as yet, she has been treated
kindly ; and perhaps gratitude is naturally dic­
tated by the sense of benefits received. But I
will tell you what puzzles me, I constantly per­
ceive both in her conversation and actions, strong
emotions of pity for vulgar miseries, which it is
ridiculous to feel, and bad taste to express;
bursts of enthusiasm for a parcel of chimerical
virtues, and impossible characters; above all,
fanciful traits of what, for want of a better term,
I will call conscientiousness, in defence of
which she always becomes most amusingly ear­
nest and serious. Now, as she has had no
moral pedagogue, no canting governante, set
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 267
over her, whose applause it is necessary to win
by such ebullitions of virtue, I will confess I am
surprised by these traits of character. That she
should be accomplished, clever, imaginative, and
susceptible, is very natural. These qualities
are the direct result of her education. But
where the devil did she get her morality from ?
Not from me certainly, and still less from Ma­
dame Gisquette. Neither do I think that the
old dolt of a priest, whom I allowed to super­
intend her religious duties, was the man to teach
her these flights. Are then our moral senti­
ments born with us, and do they constitute a
portion of our being? Are they, when natu­
rally strong, able to develope themselves under
the most unfavourable circumstances ? Are
Helvetius, Grimm, D’Holbach, and our other
fashionable philosophers, all wrong, when they
swear that justice and charity are nothing more
than artificial feelings, formed by policy, and
Digitized by Google
268 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
inculcated by education ? Can notions of self-
denial spring up in the Paphian bower ? Can
ideas of honesty and generosity develope them­
selves in a robber’s den ? Upon the honour of
a Duke, when these reflections first crossed my
brain, I actually pondered over the matter
seriously and heavily for upwards offiveminutes,
but strange to say, I could not arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion of the question. I think
I am naturally fond of abstruse topics. Had
fate made me a poor devil of a scribbler, com­
pelled to write for his daily bread, I am certain
I should have indited a dozen tomes upon this
very subject. Thanks to omnipotent Fortune,
she has enabled me, by her gifts, to make a better
use of my time. But touching these same
innate moral feelings, if indeed they have any
real existence, I suspect that nature sent me
into the world without my fair share of them:
for except the slight and transient twinges
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 269
which I just now described to you, I never yet
felt anything which resembled a conscience.
You have well characterized my penchant for
the other sex, as my ruling passion. Y es; it is
emphatically my ruling passion; and yet you
are inconsistent enough to ask me to control
its excessive ardour. How rule the ruler ? It
governs me, you say, and yet you would have
me govern it. Is it possible for the smaller
power to dominate the greater? It would cease %
to be my ruling passion if I could overrule it.
My appetites are absolute monarchs, and pos­
sess the full measure of viciousness and self-will,
usually displayed by such personages.
Yes, this passion that you speak of, is indeed
the master-feeling of my soul. Like Aaron’s
rod, it swallows up all the other vices. If I
have ever seemed to seek the extension of my
influence at Court, be assured it was to gratify
an ambitious mistress. If I ever intrigued for
n 2
Digitized by Google
270 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
places and pensions, it was because my lavish
gifts had for a moment drained my patrimonial
resources. No matter which way the ripple on
the surface might appear to tend, the true cun-
rent of my soul always has, and always will,
flow in one direction. And you talk to me of
changing my pursuits.— Bid a tiger or a vulture
refrain from blood, and satisfy their carnivorous
maws with fruits and flowers. I must act ac­
cording to my nature. Other men complain of
satiety and weariness: I feel none. Each new
beauty seems lovelier than the last; each fresh
adventure seems to promise a richer harvest
than all its predecessors. Though my whole
life has been devoted to pleasure, I have not
satisfied a tithe of the innumerable longings of
my heart; I have not executed the twentieth
part of the caprices and devices of an inexhaust­
ible imagination. And why should I abstain
from that which to me is the breath of life—
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 271
the essence of my existence ? What reason do
you give? what reward do you offer? You
won't venture to urge religion as a rule of con­
duct, to a French nobleman, in the year seven­
teen hundred and eighty-eight ? But even did
1 believe in the common people's creed, its
hopes and promises would exercise but little
influence on my mind. I can scarcely conceive,
and do not at all envy, the metaphysical de­
lights of disembodied spirits. For the possi­
bility of obtaining such airy uncertainties, I
should certainly never forego the palpable joys
of this visible diurnal sphere. Mahomet's
paradise might indeed have tempted me. As
to morality, if i am so constituted as to derive
more pleasure from the gratification of my
passions, than the satisfaction of my conscience,
the fault is in nature, not in myself. My
mental conformation is vicious, and my acts
correspond to my organization. With respect
Digitized by Google
272 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
to law and opinion— I keep within the letter of
the first; and as to the second, I am satisfied
with that portion of esteem, which, in a profli­
gate age, rank and riches will extort for me, in
spite of the utmost licentiousness, from my
contemporaries. Thus, you see my heart is
cased in triple armour. There is not a single
vulnerable part where your shafts can enter.
No— Antonia's fete is settled. If the career
I have marked out for her, be compatible with
what she dreams happiness— well and good— I
am heartily glad of it; but if it be not— why,
her fate is still fixed. Your remonstrances have
actually hardened me in my resolution; for,
out of compliment to you, I have weighed them
in the balance of reason, and found them
wanting. de fronsac.
END OF VOL. I.
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO.
Digitized by Google
OmamtitUl titarfcrning.
NOW BRADT,
With numerous coloured Illustrations, and neatly bound, price 6a. 6d.
T H E P A R T E R R E ;
W H O LE A R T OF FO R M IN G F LO W E R G A R D E N S.
With 11 coloured Designs of their different Orders and Use.
By C. F. F erris, Esq.
G R A N T A ;
A P A G E IN T H E L IF E OF A C A N T A B .
In 1 to L bound in doth, price 6s.
“ The ability of the writer of this spirited work is undeniable. There
are passages displaying much poetic feeling, with *sweet and bitter
fancies' giring raciness to the whole.”— Satirist.
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
OR,
T H E C H A R L A T A N .
A TALE OF
TH E REIGN OF LO U IS XVI.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
L O N D O N :
EDWARD BULL, PUBLIC LIBRARY,
19, HOLLES STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE.
1838.
Digitized by Google
LONDON C. RICHARDS, PRINTER, ST. MARTIN'S LAMB.
Digitized by Google
C O U N T C A G L IO S T R O :
OR,
THE CHARLATAN.
CH A PTE R XVI.
THE HYPOCHONDRIAC.
I f Cleveland's ruling passion were termed a
love of popularity, the word would hardly
express the full extent of the principle which
naturally predominated in his breast. His was
not the cold ambition of the scholar or the
statesman, to shine or rule. The bare admira-
VOL. II. B
Digitized by Google
2 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
tion of his fellow-creatures would never have
contented him. He wished to engage their
attachment—to attract their sympathies— to be
the centre of many affections— to create for
himself a new and happier existence in the
bosom of all around ; and to find in their
hearts a responsive echo to every tone of
thought or feeling which vibrated in his own.
Vain hope! Desperate alchemy ! it were easier
to transmute the* dull ingot of lead into its
own weight of pure and refined gold, than to
coin the sordid mass of selfishness, which calls
itself the world, into true and sterling friends.
Yet Cleveland, like the adepts of old, was
happy in his golden dreams, while he continued
the impossible pursuit. But he pressed on in
his career with too much eagerness ; and the
cold, disenchanting touch of poverty, dissipated
his visions. In the bitterness of his disappointr
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 3
ment, he swore never to renew them; and
whenever they again began to rise, in distant
but tempting prospect, he sternly and contemp­
tuously turned away.
And this is the result of the much-lauded
wisdom of experience— a thousand times more
fatal to our happiness than all the errors of con­
tinued folly. To seek exemption from care
and sorrow in insensibility, is as unwise as to
cut off the hands to prevent the fingers from
being pricked.
When Cleveland endeavoured to steel liis
heart from all impressions, whether of joy or
pain, and to live in the world as if he were an
unconcerned spectator of its doings, and not a
deeply interested actor, he should have remem­
bered Rochefoucault’s profound observation,—
“ That people endued with strong passions,
are happy under their influence, and miserable
b 2
Digitized by Google
4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
when cured o f them.” T h is is the reason w hy
disappointment exercises so deadly an influence
over the mind. It is not that the acquisition o f
the toys which we aimed at, could have exerted
much effect on our happiness, but the failure to
obtain them chills us from the prosecution o f
that pursuit, where content and mental health
were unconsciously found. T o lose the baubles
themselves is nothing— but to lose the spirit
and inclination to renew the chase, is indeed
m isery.
Cleveland began to lose his relish for exist­
ence. H e had so long accustomed him self to
check every feeling o f expectation or hope, that
at length the sentiment ceased to arise in his
mind. H e no longer looked on the future
with the eyes o f other men. H e beheld in it
no bright vistas o f com ing happiness — no
charm ing back-ground o f content and repose.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 5
H e saw in it nothing but a continuation o f the
dull and insipid realities o f the present. T h e
word to-m orrow ; had no m agic for his ears.
T o him it was nothing but a monotonous repe­
tition of to-day— a tedious counterpart of the
past hours, which had already disgusted him.
A n d cut off from the hopes o f to morrow, who
is satisfied with to-day? N one— not even the
happiest o f m6n. T o-m orrow ! Beautiful word
o f hope— sweet sound o f promise— ever renew-
ing dawn o f an anticipated career o f happiness,
’tis thou, and thou only, that recondlest us to
existen ce!
A n invincible lassitude took possession o f
Cleveland’s mind. A ll his faculties seemed
involved in torpor. T h e ordinary routine of
amusements in which he had hitherto mingled,
was now gradually abandoned. H e shrunk
from pleasure as a fatigue. H e shunned society.
Digitized byGoogle
6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
Conversation became odious, and seemed only
to increase the disgust and weariness with which
every object seemed to inspire him. H is heavy
hours were passed in fits o f gloom y abstraction,
or sullen reverie. A t night, his mind, restless
and irritable from the want o f wholesome ex­
citem ent during the day, was unable to enjoy
the customary repose o f slumber. In vain did
he stretch him self on his feverish couch, with a
desperate determination to sleep. In vain did he
endeavour, by every artificial expedient, to win
his uneasy spirit under the influence o f w nature’s
sweet restorer.” H our after hour did the dull
m elancholy chimes o f some neighbouring church
sound upon bis wakeful ear, and tell him how
slowly the tedious night was wearing away. It
is not surprising, that the reflections which sug­
gested themselves during these involuntary vigils
should be o f the gloomiest cast. Solitude is a
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 7
fearful thing to thoughtful minds. B y solitude
is not meant the mere absence o f human beings.
T h e solitude o f the library, the laboratory, and
the studio, is peopled by the most delightful o f
all companions— ideas o f knowledge, o f power,
and beauty* which throng upon us thicker than
die motes that sparkle in the sunbeam. B y
solitude is meant, that state o f loneliness, in
which, from some cause or other, w e are compel­
led to look within our own bosoms, and reflect.
In society, there is an artificial stimulus, arising,
perhaps, from the dose contact o f m ind to
mind. A mob, no m atter o f what class it is
composed, is always excitable. T h e gaiety and
petulance o f one encourages and inflames the
others. O ur spirits act and are reacted upon
by each other, until they are wound up to a
pitch o f exhilaration and excitem ent, which
they cannot for an instant maintain when alone.
Digitized byGoogle
8 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO J
T h e combined joyousness o f all is discharged,
like the electric spark, through each. W e are
inspired— we gracefully jest away our heaviest
cares, and m oralize over our worst misfortunes,
with scornful and philosophic mirth.
W ithout effort or fatigue, all our energies are
arrayed, and on the a le rt E very faculty spon­
taneously exerts itself to dazzle and d eligh t
T h e overflowing fulness o f our hearts is vented
in a thousand obliging speeches. W e scatter
compliments on every s id e ; we flatter all
around, and are repaid with an abundant
shower o f adulation; until cheered, elated, and
encouraged by the delicious commerce* we
almost persuade ourselves that we really are
what we appear, and what others believe us, to
be.
It is in the hour o f darkness and solitude
that the demon o f unquiet thoughts arises, and,
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 9
overshadowing our souls with his gloom y
pinions, whispers despair. It was such a fiend
as this that brooded over Cleveland’s mind
during the interval o f his broken repose. A
still small voice, which he could neither shut
out nor silence, seemed ever m uttering in his
ear, taunting his joylessness, and tem pting him
to die. “ Y o u m ust hear me,” it seemed to
say, “ for I am your own reason. Y o u may
drown m y warnings for a time, in the clamour
o f noisy gaiety; but, sooner or later, their
realization will sting you into attention* It is
in vain that you stifle m y voice to night with
other thoughts ; at some period or other it
must be heard. W ill you listen in preference,
to your hopes ? H ave they not always deceived
you ? I f they raised you for a moment, was it
not for the purpose o f plunging you into an
abyss o f disappointm ent? D id not m y fore-
b 3
Digitized byGoogle
10 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
bodings on each occasion prove tru e? W ill
you trust them again ? N o— you must be dis­
abused by this time.
(( Stripping off, then, the false colours with
which hope adorned the scene, let us exam ine
the prospect which lies before you. H ow do
you pass your life ?— In a dull round o f petty
duties and o f insipid pleasures. D o you derive
content or even satisfaction from their perform­
ance? I f so, why are not your eyelids now
sealed in balm y slumber ? W hat w ill the future
be ? A dull re-enactment o f the present. N ay,
scarcely so— for the colours will be faded— every
trace o f gilding worn off— and the last poor
remains o f pristine novelty and brightness com­
pletely effaced. T h e first draughts o f life’s cup
have sickened and disgusted you. Y o u nau­
seate even the com paratively clear liquor which
sparkles at the to p ; and yet with insane perse*
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 11
verance you still drain the bowl, and hope to
find happiness in the dregs. W ould you live
your past life over again? Y o u shudder at die
idea. T hen why live out the remainder, which
in all probability will resemble the commence­
m ent ? W hy should you think that the weak­
ness and infirm ity o f old age w ill succeed in
attaining what the strength, activity, and energy
o f youth failed to grasp. A pply the common
doctrine o f chances to the matter. F or eight-
and-twenty years you have played at a certain
hazardous gam e called life, with varied, but on
the average, bad success. T h e amount o f pain­
ful sensations dealt out to you has far exceeded
those that were pleasurable. T h e black days
assigned to you have been more in num ber than
the white. W hat is the fair inference which,
on the ordinary principles o f calculation, you
would draw from such experience? N othing
Digitized byGoogle
12 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
less than this, that life is a losing gam e. A n d
is it rational to expect that the nature o f the.
speculation will be changed, and the proportion
o f good and evil reversed, because you still
persist in continuing your stake ? Is the motive
which induces you to persevere the dictate o f
reason or common sense? or is it the blind
instinct o f hope— an unreasonable confidence in
your own good fortune— an infatuated persua­
sion o f com ing luck, similar to that which urges
the gam ester to risk his last shilling on the
hazard o f the die ?
W hich way will you escape the weariness o f life?
Y o u will choose some object o f pursuit— good.
A y , and a noble one— better still. Y o u will dedi­
cate yourself to the benefit o f m ankind — glorious
id e a ! Y o u are prepared no doubt for the brutal
ingratitude o f those whom you attem pt to serve.
Y o u are prepared also for the sneers and opposi-
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. IS
tions o f those who feel and resent your generosity,
as a tacit reproach on their own insensibility. B ut
can you reconcile yourself to the idea, that all
your exertions and sacrifices will not ultim ately
produce one iota o f practical good to the race
for whom you are labouring? Y o u may fall a
m artyr in the attem pt; but you will not advance
the cause one inch. Look how little the wisest
laws and institutions have been able to effect.
T h e mountain o f human misery remains undi­
minished. W hat can an individual d o?— no­
thing— absolutely nothing. H e m ight as well
thrust his hand into a torrent, and fancy that he
stopped the speed o f the waters. Often your
benevolence creates and multiplies the very evil
it was intended to banish. C harity begets
beggars. G ive away your whole fortune to
mendicants, and you will make a thousand pau­
pers, besides yourself.
Digitized byGoogle
14 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ W ill you devote yourselfto the acquisition o f
power, and m ake ambition your G od ? H e is a
stern and selfish deity— difficult to propitiate,
capricious to reward, oftentimes giving to base­
ness and subserviency what he denied to talent
and merit. Rem em ber the serpent creeps higher
than the lion can climb. A thousand different
events must cooperate in your elevation. Y o u
must be born at fitting time, placed in the par­
ticular country which affords a favourable theatre
to your talent. A spark falls in the desert and
is extinguished; it lights on a forest and causes
a conflagration. H ad Crom well been born fifty
years sooner or later than he actually was, he
would have lived obscurely, or perished ignom i-
niously. I f Turenne, Cond6, M arlborough, or
Eugdne, had served their respective countries
as privates instead o f officers, how different
would have been their career !
Digitized byGoogle
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 15
“ B u t he who unites talent to perseverance will
always distinguish himself. T ru e— you will be
famous then ? K n ow that in the whole circle
o f human delusions there is no phantom so un-
real and evanescent as glory. Y o u consume
your life in exertions compared with which the
labour o f a galley-slave is a jest— for what ? T o
attain the admiration o f the very beings, whose
intellects you despise, and whose vices you
detest. A n d were the approbation o f these
judges an adequate reward— you hear it not—
see it not— feel it not. Y o u m ay be celebrated
at the antipodes, and posterity may build you
m onum ents; but in your own immediate circle,
am ong your own intim ate associates, on whom
the com fort o f your existence depends, your
superior talents will draw down upon you
hatred, envy, and depreciation, as surely as your
statues, if you have any, w ill cast shadows when
Digitized by
16 COUNT CAGUOSTRO 5
the sun shines. Further than all this, the in­
tense and unceasing efforts requisite to attain
eminence in any departm ent o f art or know­
ledge, beget an irritability o f nerve, which
renders its possessor the unhappiest o f man­
kind. I f you doubt the fact, read the biography
o f gen iu s; and you will find that those records
contain a complicated mass o f calam ity and
suffering, not to be paralleled in the annals o f
criminals. B e warned by their exam ple; expel
from your heart that restless consuming mad­
ness* called love o f glory. R ather drink, game,
or d ebauch:— nay, shrink not contemptuously at
the mention o f these pursuits: low and criminal
as you may deem them, how m any o f the most
gifted o f our unhappy race have sought refuge
in these vices from the weariness o f life, and
have preferred the indulgence o f such gross pas­
sions to the prosecution o f those high and
Digitized byGoogle
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 17
glorious schemes which their talents entitled
them to form, and would have enabled them to
accomplish.
“ L urks there no moral beneath this incom­
prehensible infatuation ? Does not it seem, as
i f these powerful but erring spirits had not
found the reward they expected in the dazzling
paths that they first trod, and that in the bitter­
ness o f their despair they sought a coarse brute­
like felicity from physical excitem ent ?
“ B u t what avail these reflections ? T h ey only
serve to confirm the miserable truth, that exist­
ence is one long conflict with evils, that must at
last overcome us. P a in is th e an im atin g p r in ­
c ip le o f th e crea tion . W e are bora in p a in .
W e die in p a in . From the cradle to the grave,
p a in is our constant companion, our prim ary
im pelling principle, our overruling and controul-
in g governor. It dallies with us,* as a wild
Digitized byGoogle
18 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
beast sports with its prey. F or a moment we
seemed to have escaped— to have eluded its
p o w er; but the least indiscretion, and its talons
are again plunged into our side; until, at last,
having tortured us for the allotted term o f three
score years and ten, it strikes the mercy^blow,*
and we becom e a heap o f carrion, that the
nearest and dearest o f our friends cannot survey
without feeling their gorge rise. A n d know­
ing all this, and feeling much more, yon still
l i v e r
Such were the temptings that continually
assailed Cleveland, as night after night he
lay stretched upon the rack o f his own un­
easy thoughts. “ I must be ill,’* said h e ;
“ some latent disease disturbs m y repose; and
m y want o f sleep renders me melancholy.**
W ith this view o f his case, he went to the most
* The coup-de-grace.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 19
famous physician in Paris. u Examine me
well,” said he, when introduced to the man of
science; “ and tell me whether my state of
health be good.” The physician looked at his
tongue, felt his pulse, punched his chest, slapped
his limbs, and made divers enquiries which were
satisfactorily answered.
“ You need not alarm yourself/' he said to
Cleveland, “ if your frame does not glow with
the brilliant health of a mountaineer; if your
skin has not the clearness, nor your muscles the
tone which belongs only to him who is taking
constant exercise in a pure atmosphere; yet you
have as much health as is, perhaps, compatible
with a residence in a crowded metropolis, and
an habitual participation in its enervating plea­
sures. What more do you expect or want?"
“ I want good spiritB and cheerfulness during
the day, and quiet sleep at night."
Digitized by Google
80 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ Then at present you have neither of those
blessings ?”
u I have not.”
Again the physician renewed his inquiries
concerning the patient’s mode of life, diet, & c.;
but he could elicit nothing which afforded a
satisfactoryexplanation ofhis patient’ssymptoms.
cc The disease must be in the mind; some
recent misfortune still haunts your memory and
troubles your imagination. If so, time and
occupation are the only remedies 1 can suggest;
but they are specifics of tried efficacy. And
when you are quite recovered, you can amuse
yourself like the lady in Voltaire’s story, by
erecting a monument ‘ k celui qui console.’ ”
“ Your surmises are unfounded— for many
years past my life has been, what the world
would deem and call, a career of uniform pros­
perity.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 21
4
5Then you must be labouring under hypo­
chondria,” said the physician.
u What is that?”
“ A most strange, and insidious malady, often
attacking those who are otherwise most favoured
by nature and destiny; sapping the springs of
enjoyment, and bringing upon its victims, even
in the prime of their life, and the zenith of
their fortune, all the hopelessness of old age,
without its protecting insensibility.”
Cleveland was surprised at the energy with
which the physician uttered this description.
4
4You speak feelingly,” said he.
4
4I have reason to do so,” returned the
physician, with a somewhat dismal expression,
“ since I have been struggling all my life
against the complaint, and should long ago
have fallen a victim to it, but for the constant
occupation of mind and body, which my pro-
Digitized by Google
22 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
fession enforced. Often my friends wonder,
why I persist in supporting the fatigues of an
extensive practice, and do not rather retire
to enjoy in repose the fruits of my success.
But I am well aware, that it is only by ex­
cessive drudgery, that I can keep the fiend at
arm's length. As it is; if I am left alone, and
unemployed for half-an-hour, I am ready to
hang myself.”.
“ But if a patient declines your remedy of
incessant drudgery, have you no other succe-
daneum ?”
“ The priest bids you have recourse to prayer
— the philosopher exhorts you to exert your
reason— I have sometimes tried, or fancied that
I tried, the latter expedient. May y o u r efforts
be attended with better success than mine
were,”
Cleveland took his leave, but little consoled
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 28
by the interview. He saw the ludicrous improba­
bility of obtaining assistance from the prac­
titioners of medicine, when the most celebrated
of their number avowed his inability to cure
the disease in his own person. Indeed, the
last remedy he suggested, was hardly worthy
of his acknowledged skill and shrewdness. A
propensity to speculate over nicely on subjects
which are rather matters of feeling than of
reason, is in itself a strong symptom of mental
disease. The physicians say, that the healthy
man is he, who does not feel that he has a
stomach; and that a disposition to reason on
the digestive process, and to study the rules of
diet, is a certain sign of dyspepsia. The same
principle holds good with reference to human
felicity. The really happy man is he who
enjoys life without reflections on its nature,
object, or utility ; while a tendency to philoso-
Digitized by Google
24 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
phize on existence, and to institute curious and
inquisitive investigations on its various pains
and pleasures, is a sure indication of a dissatis­
fied and troubled spirit. It is the restlessness
of internal pain, that sends us prying into the
dim and misty regions of metaphysical specu­
lation; from whence we always return, like
Byron’s Cain, baffled in our high researches,
but more than ever exasperated with the a c tu a l
world.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 25
C H A PTE R X VII.
TWO NEGATIVES MAKE AN AFFIRMATIVE.
The amusement for which Cleveland retained
the greatest relish, was the Opera. The music
seemed to inspire a wild and tender melancholy,
a mingled sense of beauty and sadness, which
was not without its peculiar charm; and was at
all events preferable to the dull listless des­
pondency, under which he ordinarily laboured.
Unbidden tears would rush to his eyes during
the performance of some beautiful passage.
His stuffed bosom felt relieved; his heart grew
VOL. II. c
Digitized by Google
COUNT CA6LIOSTRO :
soft, and once more throbbed as it was wont in
youth: the visions of earlier happier days,
flitted palpably before his eyes. For a moment
he was almost happy; but the strain ended,
and all vanished. It may be questioned whe­
ther tliis momentary exhilaration was beneficial
to Cleveland: for though it appeared to
tranquillize and sooth his troubled spirit for a
time, yet by increasing the morbid sensibility
of his mind, it probably aggravated rather than
palliated his disease.
The opera had finished, and Cleveland was
again thrown upon himself. Whither should
he direct his steps ? He shrunk from the soli­
tude of his own domicile; yet the irritation
and tedium of company were still more unen­
durable. He traversed the deserted and dimly-
lighted streets at a rapid pace, careless whither
he was going, so that he could by the violence
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 27
of his physical exertions suppress the crowd
of jarring thoughts within. At length, with­
out having purposely directed his course that
way, he found himself on the Pont Neuf. The
sudden transition from the narrow lofty street,
which allowed the passenger but a slender
glimpse of heaven, to the free open space on
the bridge, induced Cleveland to pause, and
survey the scene around him. It was a beauti­
ful summer's night. The lights on the Quais
were mostly extinguished. A few, however,
shot their trembling radiance on the smooth
dark waters of the Seine, as they swept stealth­
ily, and swiftly, under the bridge. The
moonlight slept upon the huge mass ofsurround­
ing buildings, and gave them a solemn and
unearthly character; an effect which was much
enhanced by the striking solitude which now
prevailed in a place which was usually so busy
c 2
Digitized by Google
28 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
and crowded. While, above all, spread the
dark azure canopy of heaven, spangled with its
glittering and innumerable lights. Despite his
gloom, Cleveland felt the influence of the scene.
A sense of beauty stirred his heart; but the
emotions which followed were still sorrowful
and despairing. Long and earnestly did he
gaze on the starry concave. So intense was his
contemplation, that at last his bewildered and
overwrought spirit seemed almost to mingle
with their placid rays, and to hold actual con­
verse with the unconscious luminaries.
“ Glorious and immortal host,” he mentally
ejaculated, “ the least of whom is a universe, of
which we can neither compass nor comprehend
the minutest atom.— Mysterious orbs ! of whom
science tells us nothing, save that ye are vast
and mighty.— Grand and unimaginable worlds !
whose last faint rays, transmitted athwart yon-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 29
der blue infinity, are still a wonder, and a
delight to the dwellers on earth, and form the
only spectacle on this dull globe, which never
wearies the eye or heart of man.— Are ye places
of suffering and torment for beings as frail and
wretched as myself ? or are ye, as I would fain
think, the bright abodes of a pure and perfect
race ? O h! that my soul had the wings of a
dove, that it might fly away from this mansion
of care, and setding on your silver shores, enjoy
the peace of the blessed ! Oh ! that my trou­
bled spirit, freed from its clayey prison, could
traverse yon intervening space, and attain your
havens of rest.”
As these passionate aspirations passed through
Cleveland's breast, he cast his eyes on the river
beneath. A sudden, and overwhelming im­
pulse urged him to plunge into the dark rapid
current. His reason offered no resistance—-in
Digitized by Google
80 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO!
feet it had long ago obscurely indicated such a
step, as the only and natural termination of
his wretchedness. A subtle but overpowering
desire f<
*r peace, like the pleasing but irresisti­
ble sensation which impels us to sleep after
long vigils, or violent fatigue, pervaded his
heart and brain.
He was about to mount the balustrade of the
bridge, when an approaching footstep broke
upon his ear. He turned round. It was a
female, apparently young, to judge by her step
and figure; but her face was closely veiled. It
was so unusual for the ladies, who walked the
streets of Paris alone, and by moonlight, to
conceal their faces from observation, that Cleve­
land’s attention, absorbed as he was in his own
feelings, was attracted by the circumstance.
His curiosity, however, was not so much ex­
cited as to induce him to take any farther
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 31
notice. So, shrouding himself in a recess of
the bridge, he quietly waited till the new comer
should leave him in quiet possession of the
ground. The female was equally regardless of
Cleveland, and passed on to the other end of
the bridge. There she stopped, and cast some
furtive glances on either side, apparently with
the view of ascertaining if any body was in
sight. She seemed aware of the vicinity of
Cleveland, and began to loiter about, as if she
expected that he would depart, and leave her
alone. This manoeuvring continued for some
time, each party seeming determined to outstay
the other. At length a suspicion flashed across
Cleveland’s mind, that the stranger had sought
that spot with intentions similar to his own, and
only waited his disappearance to put her resolu­
tion into execution.
A strange impulse of curiosity urged him to
Digitized by Google
32 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
try if this surmise was well founded. With
this view, he pretended to depart, and walked
out of sight for a moment— then turning back,
he rushed with the speed of lightning to the
spot where the female had been standing.
His conjecture was right. She had already
climbed on the balustrade; her arms were
raised to Heaven in the attitude of prayer, as
if imploring forgiveness for the act she was
about to commit. Another moment, and she
would have plunged; when Cleveland sprang
up, and dragged her down. The shock was
too much for her already excited nerves; and,
uttering a faint scream, she fainted in his
arms.
Perplexed as he was at his situation, and
serious as was the occasion, Cleveland could
not refrain from reflecting on the singular
inconsistency of his conduct. A minute ago he
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 33
was on the point of committing suicide himself;
and now he interfered, with the utmost eager­
ness, to prevent another from putting a similar
intention into practice. So true is the maxim
of Napoleon, — “ Rien ne refroidit comme
l’enthousiasme des autres.” The moment we
see our own madness exhibited by another, we
are struck by its absurdity. In an instant he
had lost all his taste for suicide; though he
would not have confessed the fact even to
himself.
u Ridiculous inconsistency P
* muttered Cleve­
land to himself, as he supported the lifeless girl
in his arms, hardly knowing what step to take
next. “ What right had I to prevent the poor
girl from seeking a remedy I was about to ad­
minister to myself? It is in vain we reason and
philosophize;— to the last moment of our exist­
ence we are the fools of custom and circum-
c 3
Digitized by Google
34 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
stance; and, in the hour of action or excite*
ment, our grandmothers’ dogmas supersede all
the fine-spun deductions of reason.”
The female’s swoon was of very short dura­
tion. It did not last for half a minute; when,
recovering her consciousness, she disengaged
herself from Cleveland’s arms, before he had
time to lift her veil and examine her features.
But even in this short interval, he had been
able to remark the grace and symmetry of her
rounded form.
4
4Thanks ! thanks !” she exclaimed, in a
faint voice. 4
4I am well now;— pray leave
me.
“ Not till you have promised not to repeat
your late attempt.”
4
4I promise, then.— I give you my word I
will not,” said she, turning to retire.
4
4Yet stay,” said Cleveland; 4
4answer me
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 85
one question, and I will allow you to depart.
What was the motive which urged you to self-
destruction V
“ My particular griefs can hardly interest an
entire stranger.”
“ More than you imagine. But I will set
you an example of confidence. I came to this
spot with pretty much the same intentions as
yourself. Your presence suspended my pur­
pose. Your attempt gave a new direction to
my thoughts. A sudden and most inconsistent
impulse, for which I cannot account, prompted
me to arrest your design. And now I am
possessed by an irresistible desire to know the
circumstances by which you were induced to
attempt suicide. I know not why, but I feel as
if there were some strange connexion— some
subtle and mysterious link between our fates.
Besides, having forced you to endure life, I
would now fain make life endurable.”
Digitized by Google
36 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
The unknown shook her head mournfully.
« I distrust,” said she, “ the generosity erf
your sex. Woe to the unprotected woman,
who accepts an obligation from a man. Sooner
or later an unworthy recompense is always
demanded for the insidious gift.”
u What! railing at our true— open— honest
— constant— single-minded sex? Nay, then, I
need ask no farther. The cause is clear. It is
the old story of seduction, desertion, and
despair.”
“ On the contrary, my tale is one of denial,
pursuit, and persecution.”
“ And was a leap from yonder balustrade
your only means of escape ?”
“ Such is my poverty, and such the malice
and ingenuity of my foes, that every other
oudet was— alas! is still— shut up.”
“ This purse,” said Cleveland, producing
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 37
one, “ will be of service to you. It contains,
I believe, some large notes.”
The unknown contemplated him for some
moments, as if to read his motives.
“ Are you serious,” she at length said, “ in
bestowing such a gift upon an utter stranger,
whom you may never probably meet again?
Above all, do you offer it freely and uncondi­
tionally
“ As freely as ever captive tendered his ran­
som. As for conditions, ere a week has flown,
I shall most probably be— where I took the
liberty to prevent your going— at the bottom of
the Seine. Take it, and be happy. But, while
labouring under the ills of poverty,— and I deny
not that they are many and bitter,— still, thank
God that you are exempt from evils which no
accession of fortune, and no change of external
circumstances, can remove or palliate.”
Digitized by Google
3 8 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO :
4
4It is hard,” rejoined the other, 4
4that
Monsieur Cleveland, who seems so anxious to
mitigate the afflictions of others, should be so
unhappy himself.”
4
4Ha ! you know me, then ? '
4
4This evening is not the first time 1 have
experienced that innate spirit of generosity,
which was so little to be expected in a friend
of the Duke de Fronsac.”
With these words she removed her veil, and
the pale light of the moon disclosed to Cleve-
lond the unrivalled features of Antonia.
4
4Do I dream ?” exclaimed he; 4
4or do I
behold Mademoiselle Antonia? By what strange
vicissitude is De Fronsac’s favourite, whom I
last saw surrounded with ease and splendour,
converted into a midnight wanderer, meditating
suicide? My warnings then proved true?’
4
4They did: and permit me now to apologize
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 39
for the rudeness with which 1 treated you, when
you so generously apprised me of my impend­
ing danger. But how could I believe, that the
man, whom for years I had loved and venerated
as a father, would suddenly assume the charac­
ter of an unprincipled libertine? I will spare
you the relation of his odious importunities and
depraved arguments. You may conceive they
did but increase my disgust. At last he changed
his tone, and uttered the most fearful menaces.
He execrated me as a low-born, ungrateful
brat, whom his weak kindness had pampered
into a 'rebel. Finally, he threatened to expel
me from his roof, and leave me to starve.”
“ And he had the cruelty to execute this
menace
“ Such an act would have been compara­
tively honourable. But he did not intend to
let me escape so easily. Finding all other
Digitized by Google
40 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO J
means ineffectual, he resorted to the most
brutal and unmanly violence; when Heaven, in
its mercy, sent the priest, who was in the habit
of attending the inhabitants of the chateau, to
my assistance. With a courage, which, under
the circumstances, I can call nothing less than
sublime, he interfered in my behalf; reproached
the Duke with his villany, and escorted me out
of the chateau. But here, alas ! his power to
assist me ended. He was afraid to let me
remain on the Duke’s domain; and, thinking
that I might best elude my persecutor in the
obscurity of a metropolis, he sent me to Paris.
He gave me a letter of introduction to a woman,
whom he described as poor, but honest; and
who, he said, would, for a small remuneration,
allow me to board in her house. A las! she
did not merit the priest’s eulogjum. For some
time I supported myself with the produce of
my pencil----- ”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 41
4
4Good Heavens! Why did you not apply
to me for assistance? Had you forgotten my
address?’
“ 1 cannot say I had,” replied Antonia,
slightly blushing; 4
4but one of the insults
which the Duke heaped upon me, was an in­
sinuation, that my resistance to him was occa­
sioned by a secret attachment to the guest whom
I had only seen one day.”
Cleveland, whose eyes during the narrative
were fastened upon her beautiful and expressive
countenance, felt his heart beat at the mere
suggestion.
4
4I determined,” resumed Antonia, 4
4not to
take a step which might lend a colour of truth
to his suspicions. Besides, you might have
proved a more dangerous protector than even
the Duke— I did not dare to trust you— nay, I
did not dare to trust myself. I therefore per­
severed in my labours; but the Duke discovered
Digitized by Google
42 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
my retreat, and the expedient by which I sup­
ported existence. His first care was to under­
sell me with all my employers. I could no
longer find purchasers for a single drawing.
He then corrupted my hostess. She offered to
lend me money, which I imprudently accepted;
and she now threatens, unless I seek the Duke’s
protection, to throw me into prison.’’
Cleveland heard her story without surprise,
for he knew De Fronsac; neither did he waste
any indignation on the Duke's conduct; for he
knew a hundred others of his acquaintance,
who, placed in a similar situation, would have
acted in the same manner. Nevertheless, he
felt a sentiment of interest in the fate of the
unhappy girl, with whom he had thus strangely
been brought in contact. Before they parted,
he extorted from her a promise that she would
meet him on the morrow. She consented.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 48
Those, who have never felt the iron gripe of
necessity, may condemn her conduct; but others,
better acquainted with the world, will pronounce
that, in certain crises, life offers but one alter­
native to the wretched— death by their own
hands, or submission to circumstances. It is
easy for a person, surrounded to satiety by all
the comforts of life, to make the magnanimous
declaration that they would sooner starve piece­
meal than be guilty of such and such acts. Let
them wait till they are tried. To execute such a
resolve is as impossible as to refrain from crying
out when torn to pieces by the rack. Yet
though Antonia yielded, it was at least with
apparent regret.
“ I am afraid,” said she, “ I am about to
{dace myself in the power of a protector even
more dangerous than the Duke de Fronsac.”
“ In placing yourself in my power,” replied
Digitized by Google
44 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Cleveland, “ you have in reality secured your
safety. In the vulgar language of the world,
you are indebted to me, and owe me some
return; but, in reality, I am the party who has
gained by this interview; since you have in­
spired me with an emotion of interest which has
long been a stranger to my bosom. But at all
events, possessing, as I hope I do, some few
grains of generosity, I should as soon think of
availing myself of the advantage of my superior
physical strength, as of abusing the influence
which accidental circumstances had conferred
on me.”
Antonia would have been charmed with the
delicacy of this sentiment, even had it proceeded
from the mouth of De Fronsac; but coming, as
it did, from a man under thirty, and to whom
she was already bound by the obligations of
gratitude, it reached her heart.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 45
Clevelands first care was to hire some com­
fortable but retired lodgings. His next to
engage an old woman, who usually officiated as
his laundress, to enact the part of chaperon and
duenna to Antonia. These arrangements were
both completed before he met Antonia. The
latter was soon installed in her new domicile,
which it was agreed she should consider as her
home, until circumstances should offer a plan
more suitable to her age and sex. Cleveland
respectfully and delicately requested permission
to visit her; Antonia made but a faint opposi­
tion. She was young, unversed in the world’s
customs, and a stranger to the rules of etiquette.
She threw herself wholly on Cleveland’s honour,
and trusted to his sense of propriety.
Cleveland became, as might have been ex­
pected, Antonia’s daily visitor.
What a wonderful thing is love, especially in
Digitized by Google
46 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO t
its first conception. Here was a man who had
lived from his youth upwards with the wise and
the great, who had tried every pursuit, and
exhausted every pleasure, and had found all
stale, flat, and unprofitable. So deeply was he
disgusted with every phase and modification of
life; so utterly did he despair of attaining even
a moderate degree of happiness in any, that he
looked upon life as a burthen. He had en­
deavoured to get rid of it as a disease; and now,
how and where was this fastidious, indifferent,
sated poco-curante, spending his time, day after
day ? In a tame insipid conversation with a
young and inexperienced girl,— a conversation
inspired by no ulterior motive,— carried on for
the mere purpose of amusing the passing mo­
ment,— maintained solely for the present plea­
sure which it afforded to both parties. Yes—
the conversation was flat and insipid; or at
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 47
least would have been so to any third person
but the old woman who had been hired to
endure their tediousness. And yet both An­
tonia and Cleveland possessed great natural
abilities; and one had seen much of life.
Their talk turned chiefly on themselves.
Sometimes it consisted of idle plans for the
future regulation of Antonia’s life. One day it
was settled she was to be a prima donna. An­
other time, she was to be a female Raphael. At
another she was to be an abbess. Sometimes
Cleveland would reveal glimpses of his past life,
to which the other listened with the intensest
interest. But oftener than anything else the
conversation was occupied with developing their
mutual feelings. They were never weary of
unfolding to each other their most hidden emo­
tions, and explaining the respective peculiarities
of their dispositions. All these matters were
Digitized by Google
48 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
certainly light and trifling. W here then was
the spell which bound him, who had turned
away so contemptuously from the most dazzling
o f life’s other enchantm ents! W here was the
charm that fascinated him, whom nothing and
nobody could please?
H e analysed his feelin gs; and he found that
in conversing with Antonia, one subject was
just as delightful as another. H e felt, that with
her, he could have discussed the difference
between the Homousians and the Hom oiou-
sians,* with the greatest interest and animation.
H er presence alone was sufficient happiness to
him. H e wished for nothing more. T o see
h er— to be in the same room with her— was
enough. T o listen to her when she spoke,— to
* See Gibbon on the mighty schism between these two
sects; who, for the difference of a vowel, tore the Christian
world to pieces.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 49
gaze upon her when she was silent,— to watch her
when she moved,— to contemplate her when
motionless,— it mattered not which o f these occu­
pations employed him. E ither, or any o f them,
made him happy— unboundedly happy— happy
beyond what he had conceived to be the extrem e
limits o f human enjoym ent. H e would not
have exchanged five minutes o f such placid
delight, for all the noisy tumultuous pleasures
that ever shook a palace. Sometimes they
drove, accompanied by the bonne, a short dis­
tance from Paris, and took a country walk.
T h e ruralities, in the vicinity o f a metropolis,
are seldom very attractive; but what signified
their intrinsic m erits? H er company hallowed
even the vilest object that m et his eye. N ot a
stick, not a stone, not a shrub, not a tree, not a
stile, but it im m ediately becam e sacred in his
sight, if he had seen it whilst enjoying her
VOL. II. n
Digitized byGoogle
50 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
society. M onths afterwards, when he visited
the place alone, the aspect o f a rude rustic
bench, on which she had once rested, shook
him— the stoic Cleveland— even to tears. Good
G o d ! how m utable are our strongest feelin gs!
A week ago, this man was on the point o f seek­
in g a m uddy death at the bottom o f the Seine,—
and now he hoarded life as a miser would do his
treasure.
C ould they always have remained in this
state, they had been happy. B u t sooner or
later love inevitably becomes alloyed w ith pas­
sion ; and passion tends to possession; and pos­
session (such is the unhappy nature o f our
m ortal frame) reacts injuriously upon our love,
tarnishing the glory and destroying the divinity
o f our idol.
W hen Cleveland first took Antonia under his
protection, he never for a moment harboured
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 51
any idea o f m aking her either his mistress, o r
his wife. T h e pity, naturally excited b y the
spectacle o f unparalleled beauty overwhelmed by
unm erited distress, was the only motive that
prompted his conduct. M elancholy, weariness,
and disgust, had tem porarily dried up the
sources o f desire and pleasure. Cleveland
never suspected that any danger could arise
from his intimacy with Antonia. H is passions
seemed dead— A las ! they were only asleep.
T h e beauty o f Antonia woke them to redoubled
life. H e was surprised, but not alarmed. H e
thought he could control his feelings. H e
m ight still, he thought, with safety, fill his eyes
and heart with her loveliness. H e m ight still
listen to the music o f her voice. W ith this he
would be content. H e would say to the rising
spring-tide o f passion;— thus far shalt thou go,
and no farther. Canute’s attem pt to stay the
d 2
Digitized byGoogle
52 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
flowing waves with his royal chair, was not more
ridiculous. We may avoid temptation, but we
cannot subdue it. Once let the enemy get
possession of the throbbing citadel— once let all
sally-ports and outlets of the body be filled with
a torrent of hot-bubbling blood; and, if you
are under fifty, you may abandon all hopes of
resistance. Most wisely are we taught to pray
pot to be led into temptation. We are Hot di­
rected to supplicate for the power of overcoming
temptation, because this is impossible without
ceasing to be men.
But what opposition did he encounter from
Antonia herself ? What resistance did the fair
girl make? None at all— not the least— not
the slightest.— If Cleveland had drunk deep of
the intoxicating draught, she bad drunk much
deeper. The slightest expression of his will,
was to her as a law of her being. The least
Digitized by Google
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 68
indication of his wish was reverenced) like the
fiat of a divinity. She had no suspicions— no
distrust of his intentions. So deep was her
confidence in his love) so boundless was her
admiration of the whole man, that the idea of
guilt or shame could not exist in her mind with
that of his beloved image. Had he asked her
to sacrifice her life— her happiness in this world
— or her immortal soul in the next, she would
have instantly consented. Had he pointed
the instrument of death to her breast^ she
would not have turned away— she would have
smiled in unutterable love. Death would have
been sweet from his hands.
To love and to be loved in early youth, when
soul meets soul; when heart answers to heart;
when sense, sympathy, spirit, and feeling, are
all condensed upon one dear object, who reflects
them back! Transcendant happiness ! When
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
34
once tasted and enjoyed, we may thank God,
and die; for all subsequent pleasures are flat
and insipid.
Well— bitter as is the price we pay for this
gratification,— heavy as is the penalty, which
the hated laws of society inflict on the woman,
who thus errs, Antonia did perhaps wisely, as
well as lovingly, in snatching a few brief hours
— in plucking a few sweet flowers, from the
barren waste of existence* at all costs, at any
hazard, and in.defiance of the world’s law.
Ay— the hope of fame is sweet to the vain—
power may seem a noble object to the proud—
and the desire of the miser is insatiable. But
in looking back upon all these pleasures, we
feel that theywere mere phantoms, which mocked
the touch; there was nothing in them which
satisfied the thirsty longings of the heart— no­
thing which quenched the feverish aspirations
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 56
of the soul. No— throughout the whole pro­
gress of this detested journey— this accursed
pilgrimage called life, there is but one god-Uke
joy, which any mind of sense and spirit would
wish to repeat. It is— away with the paltry
delicacy of shuffling phrases, and ambiguous
expressions— it is the full, free, unrestrained,
entire, and perfect, moral and physical posses­
sion of the being we love.
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLI08TR0 t
56
CH A PTE R X VIII.
A VISIT FROM THE POLICE.
About six weeks after the Marchioness de
Montolieu’s interview with Cagliostro, the Count
I^Ostalis was one morning informed by his
valet, that two strangers, who had declined
giving their names, were waiting in the saloon
below to speak to him.
The Count, who had just achieved a most
successful toilette, and was meditating in what
particular sort of idleness he should employ the
day, heard the announcement with visible vexa­
tion, and bid his valet tell the visitors that he
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 57
was engaged. The man hesitated, and stated
that he had already assured the strangers that
his master was busy; but that, nothing daunted
at this information, they had peremptorily
declared their determination to see him before
they left the house. He further added, that he
suspected the strangers to be some of the higher
agents of the police. Uneasy- at this latter
intelligence, the Count instantly hurried to the
saloon, where he found the strangers placidly
awaiting his arrival. They rose with civility on
his entrance, and saluted him.
“ I have the honour,” said the one who
appeared to be the leader, u to serve his most
Christian Majesty Louis the Sixteenth in the
capacity of Sub-Lieutenant of the Police.”
“ The King is happy in possessing such a
servant,” said Count D’Ostalis, whose habit of
complimenting was inveterate.
d 3
Digitized by Google
58 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
The officer bowed with an air of profound
gratification. Count D’Ostalis returned the
bow; and the officer seemed to feel the honour
of being bowed to by a Count.
“ Count D’Ostalis,” resumed the Lieutenant,
“ it is an unpleasant duty to intrude on the
leisure of so polite a nobleman as yourself; but
I come on an errand of great importance. You
are no doubt aware, that about two years ago,
a certain adventurer, named Joseph Balsamo,
but assuming among other appellations the title
of Count Cagliostro, was implicated in the
famous and atrocious affair of the necklace.”
* The transaction was the talk of all Europe,”
observed the Count.
“ Unhappily it was,” continued the Lieute­
nant; “ no doubt you are also aware, that
though this crafty charlatan contrived to elude
the justice of his country, and to obtain from
the lawyers who tried him a verdict of acquittal,
Digitized by Google
OR, THB CHARLATAN. 59
his most Christian Majesty thought fit to banish
him as a dangerous character from the realm of.
France, and to prohibit his return under the
severest penalties/’
“ Such I have understood was his Majesty’s
pleasure,” replied the Count.
4
4And yet, Count D’Ostalis, we have received
private information that you have, within the
last few months, not only seen, but even con*
versed with and visited, this supposed exile.”
4
4The information was correct,” replied the
Count without hesitation. The Lieutenant and
his follower exchanged looks of astonishment.
4
4Was it not the duty of a loyal man to have
forwarded information to the police ?”
4
4How could I tell,” replied the Count, 4
4that
he was obnoxious to you ? How did I know
but that the King had permitted him to return ?
He did not seem to affect concealment.”
4
4Can you remember,” said the former, 4
4the
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
00
day of the month on which your visit took
place ?”
u The beginning of June.”
" This is incomprehensible,” says the Lieu­
tenant in an under voice to his follower; u do
not our letters from Berne state, that in the
early part of June this arch-juggler Cagliostro
was then resident in that city, and openly carry­
ing on his usual practices ? ’
“ They do,” returned the other, in the same
suppressed voice, “ and I would stake my life
on Legendre’s fidelity. If his information be
unfounded, he is deceived himself. Cagliostro
must either have a double, or possess the power
of ubiquity.”
“ Be pleased to tell us, Monsieur le Comte,”
said the Lieutenant, again addressing himself
to D’Ostalis, “ how your interview with Cagli­
ostro originated; by what means you became
aware of his presence in Paris; and from what
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 61
motives you were induced to communicate with
him ? ’
“ At a reunion,” replied D ’Ostalis, “ held at
the Duke de Fronsac’s, the conversation turned
on Cagliostro; and a certain Chevalier de Cres-
pigny told me, that the individual who had
been celebrated under that name was then in
Paris, and gave me his address.”
Again the Lieutenant and his follower ex­
changed looks of extreme surprise.
" Wonder on wonder,” exclaimed the officer
to his satellite; “ why this Chevalier de Cres-
pigny was our informant on the present occasion.
Pray, Monsieur le Comte, is this Chevalier a
friend of yours ?”
“ By no means,” said the Count. “ I have
only met him at De Fronsac’s.”
“ This must be looked to,” said the Lieute-
nant, taking out his pocket-book, and making
Digitized by Google
62 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO't
a memorandum. Count iyOstalis then detailed
the whole of his adventure with Cagliostro,
omitting only the name of the Marchioness de
Montolieu.
“ And who was the lady who evinced so
much emotion at this simple piece ofjugglery ?*
“ Excuse me/9-said the Count.
“ Monsieur le Comte/’ said the Lieutenant
firmly, “ we honour your delicacy, but the name
must be revealed. The public interest is a para­
mount law, to which every other consideration
must give way. Nay, the safety of the lady’s
reputation will be best consulted by yielding to
my request. For if we are forced to make far­
ther researches, the whole affair may become
known to persons for whose discretion I cannot
answer.”
Thus pressed, the Count D'Ostalis, after much
hesitation, gave the name of the Marchioness.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 63
“ Could you identify the apartments where
this strange scene took place ?”
“ Most certainly,” replied the Count.
“ Then let us instantly hurry there,” exclaimed
the Lieutenant. “ If we cannot catch the fox
in his hole, we shall find it still warm. At all
events, that is the spot where we sliall best
trace his machinations, and obtain intelligence
of his movements. We are three, and well
armed. Duperron, lend the Count one of your
pistols— let us lose no time— every moment is
precious. The fiacre we came in, waits at your
porte cochdre, Count.”
The Count D’Ostalis saw that he should
only expose himself to suspicion by betraying
any reluctance to accompany the Lieutenant.
He therefore shrugged his shoulders, and pre­
pared to follow him, with as good a grace as
possible.
Digitized by Google
64 COUNT CAGLIOSTllO:
The fiacre drove rapidly, until it reached the
Rue St. Honors.
“ That is the house,” said the Count, * in
which Cagliostro lodged.”
The fiacre was stopped. The party entered
the shop.
“ Are you the proprietor of the apartments
over this shop?” said the Lieutenant to the
master of the shop.
“ Yes, Monsieur.”
“ Are your lodgings occupied at present ?”
“ No, Monsieur; they have been vacant a
fortnight. I should be happy to let you have
them at four louis a week.”
The Lieutenant and his follower gazed at
each other, with an air of helpless disappoint-
ment. At length the former said to his assists
ant: “ Run up stairs, Duperron, and take a
glance at the rooms.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 65
The follower obeyed. He soon returned;
and whispered to his leader, that the apartment
presented no traces of having been recently
occupied.
“ What was the name of your lastlodger ?*
said the Lieutenant
" He was a Swiss baron, whose usual place
of residence is Berne. He called himself Baron
Walden.”
“ Describe his appearance.”
“ A tall old man, with grey hair.”
“ Are you certain, Count, that this is the
house?*
“ Perfectly certain,*’ replied Count D*Ostalis.
“ Did the Baron receive many visitors?’ said
the Lieutenant to the master.
“ I cannot say,’* answered the latter; “ for
he was waited upon by his own servants; and I
had but little communication with him.*'
Digitized by Google
66 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
The Lieutenant looked distressed, like a
hound at fault. “ Come,” said he to his fbl+
lower, “ let us go. Nothing more can be done
here. I watched the man closely while I put
my questions; and if, with that unconcerned
visage, he be in the remotest degree privy to
Cagliostro’s proceedings, I have scanned the
face of guilt for twenty years in vain.”
He then briefly informed the master of the
house, that he did not feel disposed to take the
apartments on the terms demanded; and the
party vacated the shop, leaving the owner in
a state of great surprise and indignation at the
authoritative style of their questions, and the
ultimate rejection of his lodgings.
The party mounted the fiacre, and drove to­
wards the H6tel D’Ostalis.
The Lieutenant’s face was thoughtful and
gloomy; the follower seemed to consider it
Digitized by Google
Oft, THE CHARLATAN. 67
necessary to compose his features after the
fashion of his superior. The Count D’Ostalis,
though Hot naturally proud or supercilious, so
completely lived, and had his being, in the
fashionable circles, that he was absolutely in­
capable of conversing with any one who did
not move in that sphere* and understand its
peculiar language. The party therefore rode
along for some time in silence. At length, the
strength of the Lieutenant’s feelings seemed to
compel him, by an irresistible impulse* to speak.
Apparently he was rather actuated by a desire
to express his feelings, than by any expectation
of obtaining the applause or sympathy of his
audience; for his eyes were fixed on vacancy
while he spoke.
u What would Monsieur de Sartines (Minis­
ter of Police under Louis the Fifteenth) have
said, if he had seen our morning’s work?
Digitized by Google
68 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Strange times !— fearful times ! Things cannot
remain as they are, that is certain; and what
will be the result of change ? God only knows,
Monsieur le Comte. The country is ruined.”
“ Upon my honour,” replied Count IFOstalis,
with a slight yawn, 661 can’t agree with you*
I see no symptoms of change. Is not society
as brilliant as ever ? Are not our saloons as
crowded, our costume as splendid, and our con­
versation as pointed and witty, as in the time of
the 1 Grand Monarque’ ? It is true, our opera
has lately suffered some terrible losses; but it
still continues to be a glory to our own country,
and a wonder to all others.”
“ Yes,” answered the Lieutenant, with bitter­
ness ; “ the world’s outside is still gay enough,
I grant. True, the sun is shining, and the sky
is bright; but methinks I sometimes hear the
rumbling of an approaching earthquake. Yes
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 8 9
— France is ruined. The secret police is losing
its power. There is a spirit abroad, which we
have in vain endeavoured to lay: we suppress
it in one place, and it bursts out in another.
Something is ever stirring beneath the surface
of society. We see the ferment, yet we cannot
stifle the ebullition; nor, which is worse, can
we discover its source. We are surrounded by
plots, of whose existence we are well aware;
and yet we cannot penetrate their ramifications,
and reach their authors. Yes— I repeat it:
the secret police— the key-stone of the arch on
which monarchy rests— the real sceptre by which
a wise government governs— the secret police,
has lost its power.’’
And yet it seems to me,” said the Count,
“ that you apprehend, imprison, and hang, as
many rogues as usual.”
“ Do you imagine, Monsieur le Comte, that
Digitized by Google
70 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
the immense police of this great kingdom is
kept up for the purpose of protecting society
from vulgar depredations against life and pro­
perty ? Think you that we spend millions of
livres, and employ thousands of agents, to hunt
down a few burglars and pickpockets? Such
gentry are easily dealt with. The whole society,
with the exception of their own miserable asso­
ciates, are at war with them— are interested in
exposing and punishing them. As it is, not
ten in a hundred escape detection; and were
we not occupied with other and higher matters,
not one in a hundred would elude justice.”
<
c Truly,” replied the Count; “ I always
fancied, if one may hint such an opinion with­
out offence to you, Monsieur, that the appre­
hension and suppression of such individuals,
were the main object, and chief business of a
police establishment.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 71
“ You are mistaken, Count;— no doubt it
forms a part of our duties, to guard as much as
possible the throats and strong-boxes of the
good citizens of Paris; but a much higher
charge also devolves upon us— that of defending
the country, or, in other words, the govern­
ment^ against its domestic foes. Thieves and
robbers are bad persons, no doubt, but they
do not upset governments.”
“ And who are they whose efforts tend to
that result ?” asked the Count.
“ Ruined nobles,” answered the Lieutenant;
“ who, being scouted by their own order for
their vices, determine to be revenged upon it
by their crimes. Fanatic philosophers,— who
would pound the whole edifice of society into
dust, in order that they might have the pleasure
of re-arranging the scattered atoms into mathe­
matical lines. Believers in human per/ectabi-
Digitized by Google
72 COUNT CA.GLIOSTRO :
lity— mad and disappointed geniuses, whose
writings infect all who read them with conta­
gious insanity. Turbulent and restless spirits,—
who plot at home, because they have not the
opportunity of fighting abroad. Desperate
adventurers, to whom any change must be
acceptable. These, and a thousand such, make
the first breach in the time-honoured institu­
tions of the country. When that is accom­
plished, the rabble rush in. Both besiegers
and assailants are involved in common ruin,
and a scene of undistinguished carnage and
plunder ensues.9
’
“ But does Cagliostro come under any of
the classes you have mentioned?”
“ Be assured, Count, that it was not without
bitter proof, both of his inclination and ability
lo be dangerous, that his most Christian
Majesty banished this man from France. Some
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 73
of his intrigues we have actually detected; and
we have strong reasons for believing, that he is
the prime mover and agent in a series of dark
and traitorous machinations, which a Prince of
the----- H
Here the attention of the Lieutenant was
attracted by a loud and significant cough from
his follower. He seemed to take a hint from
the signal, for, instead of finishing his accusa­
tion against Cagliostro, he recurred to his
former subject of conversation.
“ No, Monsieur le Comte, the true business
of a police is, first to protect the country,—
that is, the government,— and afterwards its
subjects. To watch the first symptoms of dis­
affection ; to crush, in the outset, the smallest
expression of discontent; to ascertain and
identify the few troublesome spirits, who are
the leaven that causes the mass of society to
VOL. II. E
Digitized by Google
74 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
ferment: for passive obedience is the general
rule of mankind, and rebellion only the excep­
tion. To find out such characters, and to have
them cared for— such are the real duties of an
extensive police in an absolute monarchy. To
chase petty-larceny rogues is a very secondary
consideration. In the time of Monsieur de
Sartines, his late majesty, Louis the Fifteenth,
betted one of his courtiers, that the police
would apprize themselves, if they chose, of the
manner in which he spent his time for a whole
week, let him take what precaution he would.”
“ Did the king win the wager ?” asked the
Count.
« He did.”
*
• And now a banished outlaw is able to elude
your utmost efforts to apprehend him ?”
The Lieutenant shook his head, and looked
dismal. “ What is the cause?” resumed the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 75
Count, 4
4of the diminished vigour of the
police?”
4
4Want of funds, Monsieur le Comte. The
Government is embarrassed.— How can the
annual deficit be reduced ? ‘ We will not regis­
ter your edicts,9 say the Parliaments. 4We
will not pay the taxes, unless the edicts, which
impose them are registered,9 cry the people.
4We will not surrender a single livre of our
grants and pensions,9 reiterate the courtiers.
The money is not forthcoming; and the
retrenchment falls, not on the expenses of the
Court, but on the effective force of Govern­
ment. The salaries of our agents are in arrear
— our secret-service money is withheld, and we
are powerless. At this moment, Monsieur le
Comte, the Government— that is the police,
for in a monarchy they are identical— resembles
an old lion destitute of teeth and claws, and
e 2
Digitized by Google
76 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
terrible only in appearance. If we are still
obeyed, it is rather from the force of habit
and the recollection of our ancient strength,
than from any power which we at present
possess to enforce submission.”
" This is all very shocking,” said the Count,
taking a pinch of snuff, “ and may be very true ;
but the weakness of the police does not prevent
me from going to the opera; and it seems to me,
that the king can do the same; although he
does not possess, like his grandfather, the power
of informing himself how every noble in the
kingdom passes his time. There is still some
comfort.”
“ Ah, mighty fine, Monsieur le Comte,”
replied the Inspector of Police, “ you, like
all the rest of your class, are blind to your
own true interests. You do not support
the monarchy with earnestness and cordi-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 77
ality. But if the bourgeoisie sweep away the
monarchy, will they respect your privileges ?
your seigneurial rights gall the peasant, far more
than the king’s Lettres de Cachet. But we
have arrived, I see, at the Hotel d'Ostalis.
Monsieur le Comte, I beg a thousand pardons
for the trouble which, in the performance of
the king's service, I have been obliged to give
you, and have the honour to wish you good
morning. Yet, before we part, pray inform
me whether I am likely to find the Duke de
Fronsac at home: I must enquire about his
friend, the Chevalier de Crespigny.” The
Count stated that the Duke seldom left home
until an hour later; and the Lieutenant of
Police and his myrmidon drove off.
Digitized by Google
78 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
CH APTER X IX .
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
In the evening, Count d’ Ostalis betook himself
to the Th6&tre Fran^ais. He had no particular
motive for preferring that theatre to any other ;
his visit was the pure result of what, for want of
a better term, we call chance. On entering the
orchestra, the first person on whom his eye fell
was the Duke de Fronsac. The Count instandy
made his way to this latter personage, with the
view of ascertaining the result of the Lieute­
nant's mission. The piece represented on the
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 79
stage was 4
4Le Fils Naturel,” one of Diderot’s
plays, written in the style which the critics of
the day called 4
4La Com6die larmoyante.”
The Count could not suppress his impatience
to tell his story. 4
4You do not seem much en­
tertained, De Fronsac, with this lachrymose
comedy: listen to me— I will relate a scene from
real life, in which I played a part this morning,
a thousand times more exciting and mysterious
than what they are enacting on yonder stage.”
441 too have had an adventure,” said the
Duke.
4
4My dear Duke,” said the Count, implor­
ingly, 4
4let me tell my story first.”
The Duke smiled, and bowed consent. The
Count then proceeded to detail the visit of the
police, and their fruitless search in pursuit of Ca-
gliostro. He further related the substance of the
conversation which took place between himself
Digitized byGoogle
80 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
and the officer, on their way back to the H6tel
D’Ostalis.
The Duke listened with deep and earnest
attention.
“ This is a strange story,” said he, w that
Cagliostro, after such a narrow escape from the
vengeance of an exasperated and despotic court,
after getting quit for his intrigues in the neck­
lace affair with such an easy sentence as banish­
ment, should have had the temerity to return to
France, and again put his head into the wolf’s
mouth ! It seems really incredible. But that he
should have eluded all the researches ofthe police
appears still more extraordinary. My adventure
is the sequel to yours; but instead of explaining
anything, it makes the matter ten times more
dark and mysterious.” The Duke then stated
that the same officer, who formed the hero of
Count D’Ostalis’ story, had subsequently called
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 81
upon him, and made divers enquiries after the
Chevalier de Crespigny.
“ I shall never forget the man’s face when I
told him, I first met Crespigny at the Palais
Royal, where the Duke of Orleans introduced
him to me as his particular friend; and that
Monsieur le Chevalier had set out for Switzer­
land four-and-twenty hours ago. He looked
like a chess-player when stale-mated; or rather
like the respectable proprietor of a rich fruit
garden, when caught in one of his own man-
traps. Never did one of his own victims, when
arrested by the strong gripe of the thief-catcher,
exhibit a whiter face.”
“ It is pretty certain,” said the Count, “ that
the information forwarded by Crespigny, was
purposely meant to send the good Lieutenant
on a fool’s errand.”
“ Clearly,” said the Duke; “ the affair seems
e 3
Digitized byGoogle
82 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO t
to have been got up in utter mockery of the
existing government, for the mere sake of be­
wildering and confusing the police. The Duke
paused a moment, and then added in a thought­
ful tone: “ I seldom take notice of public
affairs; but I confess this strange decay in the
power of the police makes me feel uneasy. The
Lieutenant was right; there is a storm brewing.
The government, though it apparently continues
with unimpaired prerogatives, declines every
day in actual strength. It is evident to me,
that the government cannot even collect the
already existing taxes, and dare not enforce the
edicts which it has forcibly registered. Still
money must be had; fresh taxes must be levied;
and the result of all these difficulties and dis­
traction, will be the convocation of the States-
General.”
MNever!” said the Count D’Ostalis, with a
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 83
self-sufficient shake of his head; “ the king
might as well lay down both crown and sceptre.”
“ Shall I tell you a secret,” rejoined the
Duke; “ the measure is already determined
upon. The Archbishop of Toulouse has tried
every expedient in vain: he has exhausted all
the resources of his rash and incapable mind;
and lest any successor should cast shame on
him, by effecting what he has failed to perform;
he is resolved to throw up the remaining chances
of the game, and to recommend himself the
Convocation of the States General. In less
than a month you will see an order of council
to that effect.”
u After all,” said the Count, “ what harm
can result from a meeting of the States. They
will vote the necessary supplies, and then sepa­
rate.”
“ Trust me,” cried the Duke, “ the king will
Digitized byGoogle
84 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
not so easily dismiss the demon he has evoked.
I do not in my conscience believe that either
moderation or stupidity are the predominant
characteristics of the French nation.”
“ Well,” returned the County if they do
abolish lettres de cachet, and otherwise clip the
King’s claws, which are in my opinion a little
too long and sharp at present, I think I could
pardon them.”
“ Admitted,” said the Duke; “ but this same
process of clipping has such extraordinary fasci­
nations for popular politicians, that when they
have once commenced the practice, they never
can be persuaded to leave off. Suppose, when
they have shortened the King’s claws, they
%
should take it into their heads to dock your
Countship’s crest?”
“ That would be awkward,” replied the
Count, who seemed struck by the observation
“ I should remonstrate with them.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 85
“ Ay,” sarcastically rejoined the Duke, “ just
as a lamb remonstrates beneath the talons of the
eagle, and with the same effect. No, Count
D’Ostalis, believe me, the consequences of this
measure are incalculable.”
“ Yet the necessity for it,” said the Count
somewhat pettishly, “ is your own fault. Why
did you not, as one of the Notables, assent to
Calonne’s plans, and enable him to carry them
into execution ?”
“ I would have done both,” replied the Duke,
but was overruled by my colleagues. In truth
they were disgusted at the boundless profusion
with which Calonne had wasted the Royal trea­
sures. He allowed Monsieur and the Count
d’Artois to help themselves to the tune of sixty
or seventy millions of livres. As to Marie An­
toinette, her pleasures had cost the country .
double that sum. Take a single instance. As
a delicate compliment to the Countess de Po-
Digitized by Google
86 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
lignac, the Count received on one occasion a
gratuity of six hundred thousand livres for the
valuable public services which he had performed
in the capacity of maitre-d’hdtel to his own
wife. What the minister's own share of the
plunder amounted to, God only knows.”
" Will the Archbishop,” asked the Count,
“ remain minister ?”
“ He anticipates as much,” said the Duke;
" but that is not the only miscalculation he has
made since he became first minister.”
“ Then who will succeed him ?”
“ The author of the Compte-rendu,” replied
the Duke, “ the banker-minister, Monsieur
Necker.
“ Good,” said the Count; “ the very man
that the occasion requires.”
“ Do you speak as a friend or an enemy of
the present system. Necker is a good stock-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 87
jobber, but a bad minister. As a political
pilot he is well intentioned, but imbecile; and
will run the ship on every single rock and
sandbank that lies in the troubled sea before us.”
“ My dear Duke,” said the Count yawning,
“ until the present moment I never found you
dull. I consider you to be the most magnificent
sinner in Europe; and I, as an humble dabbler
in vice, of course feel the utmost reverence for
your character. I would bear more from you
than most men; but I feel myself utterly un­
able to endure any farther disquisitions on
ministers, pilots, or states-general. If our heads
must ache, let it be with wine, and not with
politics. Will all these dreadful calamities
happen to-night ?”
“ Perhaps not,” said the Duke.
“ To-morrow ?”
“ No.”
Digitized by Google
88 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ The day after ?”
“ No.”
“ Then let us be happy,” said the Count,
u till the end of the week, and leave the future
to take care of itself.”
MWell, perhaps, the resource of the hunted
ostrich is the wisest we can pursue on the pre­
sent occasion. To change, then, the topic, or
rather to resume our original subject, tell me
something more respecting this singular cha­
racter, Cagliostro. What was the style of his
address and conversation during the interview
you were fortunate enough to obtain with him ?”
“ His manners were captivating,” returned
the Count; “ his elocution was rapid, dazzling,
overpowering. He seems willing to initiate
you in all the mysteries of his craft. He affects
to explain everything intricate or puzzling with
the greatest frankness; but after you have lis-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 89
tened to him for a few minutes, you perceive
that he is only deluding your understanding
with chimeras, and laughing at your vain efforts
to follow his meaning. If you attempt to sift
his discourse, or fix him to a particular point, he
envelopes you in a cloud of words,— first whirls
you into the airy regions of abstract speculation,
then drags you through a dark chaos of past
facts and opinions; until fatigued by the mul­
tiplicity of the ideas he has forced on your ima­
gination, and bewildered by the labyrinth of
tortuous reasoning which he has compelled you
to traverse, you entirely lose your senses. Then,
by a sort of metaphysical sleight, he puts you
down exactly where he took you up; leaving
you certain of nothing but his own surpassing
power of mystification.”
“ I should like to see the man,” said the
Duke, “ who has managed to create so deep an
Digitized by Google
90 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
impression upon a being as light-hearted as
yourself.”
M The influence,” continued the Count,
“ which he contrived to acquire over me in a
quarter of an hour's conversation, has since
struck me as supernatural. I was as pliable as
wax in his hands; he moulded me to what
shape he pleased. He asked me for fifty louis;
and I gave them. It is well he did not demand
half my fortune; or I certainly should have
complied with the requisition. I believe I
should have let him draw my front teeth if he
had wanted them; so irresistible was the fasci­
nation of his wonderful and universal genius.”
“ You are, indeed, an enthusiastic idolater of
skill,” said the Duke, laughing, “ if you can
persist in adoring it when you become its victim.
I suppose if he had cut your throat, your ghost
would have risen and complimented him upon
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 91
the anatomical precision with which he had
divided your jugular. But, joking apart, 1 wish
chance had thrown this extraordinary individual
in my way; I am engaged in an affair in which
a personage of this sort might have rendered me
infinite service.”
“ I would not advise you,” said the Count,
“ to waste your time in endeavouring to trace
out his retreat; if the police have been baffied
in the attempt, it is not Ukely that amateurs
like ourselves should succeed.”
“ That inference, Count, is what logicians
call a non sequitur,” said a voice from behind.
“ Count Cagliostro may be willing to commu­
nicate with men of rank and honour, though he
chooses to remain invisible to the minions of
tyranny.”
Count D’Ostalis and the Duke were seated
on the back row of the orchestra, which, as
Digitized by Google
92 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
every reader who has seen the interior of a
French theatre will recollect, is only separated
from the rest of the pit by a slight railing.
The voice came from behind. The Count
turned sharply round, and saw that the obser­
vation proceeded from an individual seated in
the front row of the pit, who was leaning on
the partition-rail, into the orchestra. He was a
swarthy, middle-aged man, wrapped in a cloak,
although the weather was warm. The aristo­
cratic bile of the Count was roused by the idea
of a roturier daring to overhear a nobleman's
conversation, and presuming to criticise it with
such easy familiarity.
“ How now, fellow,” said he, in a tone of
ineffable contempt. “ What means this inso­
lence ? are you drunk ?”
“ No, Monsieur le Comte; I am neither
intoxicated with wine, nor yet with pride, as
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 93
some, who think themselves my superiors,
appear to be.”
“ This passes endurance,” said the Count,
with increasing choler. “ If you are trouble­
some, I shall summon the police.”
u Patience, most noble Count,” replied the
stranger. u Do you call those troublesome
who would help you to your wishes ?”
The Count looked about, as if to see whether
the guard was at his post.
“ Stop, D’Ostalis,” whispered the Duke,
who had not been inattentive to the preceding
colloquy. “ I suspect this man to be a confe­
derate of Cagliostro’s. I am certain, by the
firm outline of his lips, that threats are of no
service. The argument of the sun, not that of
the wind, must be used to beguile that steady
being of his cloak.”— “ My friend,” continued
he, addressing the pertinacious stranger, “ it
Digitized by Google
94 COUNT CAGLIOSTBO S
seems you have taken the trouble to listen to
our conversation. Are you acquainted with
the individual who was the subject of our dis­
course ?’*
“ As well as a mortal can be.”
“ Do you know the place of his retreat V
“ Cagliostro never retreated from his ene­
mies ; though he may occasionally choose to be
invisible to them. I know, however, his place
of residence.”
“ Retreat or residence, it is all the same to
us,” said the Duke. “ If you will conduct us
thither, our gratitude will not confine itself to
thanks.”
“ Permit me,” calmly replied the stranger,
“ to ascertain, beforehand, the probable limits
of your grateful generosity.”
“ Oh, do not be afraid; we will not give you
less than a louis-d’or.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 9 5
MThat sum,’' rejoined the other, “ is far
more than my intended services deserve, and
infinitely exceeds what my own natural modesty
would allow me to demand. But the chief I
serve, knowing well my morbid delicacy on
this subject, has strictly enjoined me not to
accept less than five louis-d’or for directing a
stranger to his residence. I dare not disobey
his injunctions/9
“ Poor innocent!” said the Duke, drily;
“ your fidelity, however, bears it own reward.’9
“ Moreover,” continued the stranger, 6
6 my
chief, profoundly penetrated with the general
uncertainty of all mundane affairs, and espe­
cially looking to the exceeding mutability of
the human heart, farther enjoined me, not to
stir hand nor foot in such cases, till the afore­
said five pieces of gold were counted into my
reluctant palm.”
Digitized by Google
96 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
“ What say you to his offer, D’Ostalis T '
inquired the Duke, doubtfully, of his compa­
nion. “ How can we be certain that he will
perform what he promises ?”
“ If that be your only difficulty,” said the
Count, “ pay him instantly what he asks. If
there be any truth in the proverb, ‘ like master
like man,1 he is, beyond all doubt, a genuine
follower of Cagliostro. This last trait savours
strongly of that great man's style. It is quite
in accordance with the d p r i o r i system of philo­
sophy. He pretends to reverse the inductive
method, and invariably pockets the results
before he performs the facts.”
“ Good !” rejoined the Duke, turning to the
stranger, who sat awaiting the result of their
conference with great indifference. “ Well,
my friend, for once I will satisfy the exorbitant
demands of your obedient modesty; but Heaven
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 97
grant that my next petitioner be of the impu­
dent kind.” He then counted the pieces of
money into the stranger’s hand.
“ I will now leave the theatre,” said the man.
“ Do not follow me immediately, or you will
excite suspicion. Five minutes hence, you will
find me waiting outside, in the vestibule of the
entrance.”
The foregoing colloquy did not excite so
much attention as might have been expected;
for the conversation was carried on in low
though energetic tones; and the curtain having
fallen, on the termination of the first piece, there
was some bustle and confusion in the theatre.
“ I much fear,” remarked the Duke, “ that
when we reach the rendezvous, we shall find
neither man nor money.”
“ Don’t alarm yourself,” answered the Count;
“ 1 am certain the man was an agent of Ca-
VOL. II. f
Digitized by Google
98 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
gliostro’s ; and if that sublime genius has taken
us in hand, be assured that the extractive pro­
cess will not be limited to five louis.”
“ Perhaps,” said the Duke, <
cthis pretended
emissary of Cagliostro’s was the arch juggler
himself.”
“ I think not,” replied the other; Mthe man
has caught a portion of his master’s style, but
in voice, features, and figure, bore no resem­
blance to him.”
On reaching the appointed place, the Duke
discovered the injustice of his suspicions. The
stranger had already repaired to the spot, and
was waiting for them.
“ Now, Messieurs,” said he, in a low tone,
“ follow me.” The two noblemen obeyed the
order, and picked their way as well as they
could, along the dimly-lighted and dirty
streets and lanes through which he led them.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 99
At last their conductor called a coach. They
entered it. The stranger made an apology for
putting down the blinds, and the whole party
proceeded in darkness and silence. At last
they stopped. The noblemen found themselves
in a quarter of Paris which was totally unknown
to them. The houses were miserable and beg­
garly in the extreme. The few inhabitants
who had not retired to rest, from their tattered
garbs, and dirty villainous aspect, seemed fit
tenants of such dwellings. The whole place
was redolent of penury and filth. At one of
the least promising of these mansions, their
conductor seemed to give a peculiar kind of
knock with his knuckle. The door flew open.
They entered, and groped their way up a dark
staircase. Suddenly they missed their con­
ductor.
“ Curses on the knave, he has vanished,”
f 2
Digitized by Google
100 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
whispered the Duke, who was foremost, to the
Count, behind.
“ Shall we go back, and burst open the street-
door ?” said the other, hesitating.
“ No,” returned the Duke. <
c I see the light
through a chink. Let us push boldly on.—
Courage is generally the safest policy, and
never more so than when you are in a rogue’s
power.”
They felt their way up to the end of the
passage which terminated the staircase. They
placed their hands against the place through
which the light shone. The planks formed a
door, which gave way to the pressure, and
disclosed to the eyes of the astonished gropers
a spacious and elegant apartment, furnished
with equal luxury and magnificence, and illu­
minated by brilliant chandeliers. The change,
from utter darkness to a blaze of light, was at
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 101
first so overpowering, as to disable them from
discriminating objects; and when a richly
dressed personage, whom Count D’Ostalis at
once recognized to be Cagliostro, advanced
to welcome them, they hardly knew whether
he had been previously sitting in the room, or
if he had entered it at the same time as them­
selves from another side.
“ Welcome, Messieurs,” said he, extending a
hand to each. “ Monsieur le Comte, this is
an unexpected pleasure. That your friend
should pay me a visit is nothing extraordinary :
he needs my services;— but I thought, that an
economical dread of the a p r i o r i system of
philosophy would have frightened you away.”
Count iyOstalis made no reply, but pro­
duced a pocket-book, and began to write.
“ Your follower, Monsieur le Comte,” ob­
served the Duke, “ has lost no time in making
his report.”
Digitized by Google
102 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ O h! Pierre,” answered Cagliostro, “ is a
sympathetic valet* I have rubbed his ear with
Sir Kenelm Digb/s powder, so that every thing
he hears I hear also. But what is this ?”
added he, as Count EKOstalis handed him a
cheque for a hundred louis.
“ A proof of my readiness to conform to the
a p r io r i system of money payment,” answered
the Count, with a smile.
“ I forgive you, Count,” replied Cagliostro,
tearing up the cheque. c
<You think that the
gentle fine I levied on you was meant to satisfy
a base thirst of lucre. Never were you more
mistaken. It is a slight penance I impose on
every fresh aspirant to my acquaintance,— a
sort of test by which I ascertain the real value
of their pretended curiosity. If their ardour
for scientific mystery will not induce them to
submit to this trifling loss, I renounce all com­
munication with them, and disappear.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 103
“ I understand the hint,” said the Duke.
“ D’Ostalis, lend me one of your blank cheques,
— I bank with the same house as yourself.”
The Duke filled up the cheque with an order
for two hundred louis.
Cagliostro scrutinized the document, and
then silently deposited it in his pocket.
“ Now, Count Cagliostro,” said the Duke,
Mmy initiatory penance being duly performed,
I advertise you, that in this good city of Paris
— the focus of unbelief to a nation of infidels—
there exists not a more incredulous man than
myself.”
“ I pity you, Monsieur le Due. The dog­
matic sceptic is as liable to error as the most
credulous bigot. What avails it to escape the
deception of others, if you are constantly de­
ceiving yourself. He who mistakes dreams for
reality, errs, no doubt; but not more than he
Digitized by Google
104 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
who persists in deeming realities to be dreams.
Well said my old friend, Martin Luther, with
whose phantasm I have so often conversed,—
‘ The human mind is like a drunken peasant on
horseback; if you prop him up on one side, he
falls over on the other.’ ”
“ You have talked to the founder of Pro­
testantism ? then you affect the power of raising
the dead?’ remarked the Duke, with a civil
smile of contempt. cc Do you deal in the
supernatural ? that is an old trade.”
“ Monsieur le Due,” calmly replied Cagli-
ostro, “ what do you mean by the supernatural ?
If that vague and general term, nature, has any
meaning at all, it comprehends all which is
throughout time and space. It implies the sum
total of existing entities, whether of thought or
matter. The very word supernatural, then, is
a contradiction in terms—a solecism, because it
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 105
expresses that there is something more— beyond
and above what it asserts: in short, that the
whole does not include the parts. I cannot
counterwork the smallest of nature’s laws; but
I may be acquainted with certain secret prin­
ciples in those laws, which are unknown to the
rest of Adam’s race. I can produce no pheno­
mena which are not already inherent in matter;
but I may possess more skill in developing and
applying the elementary powers, than the whole
crowd of sceptics who laugh at me.”
“ Well done,” cried the Duke, laughing;
“ you have explained away part of your indis­
creet declaration, in a very lawyer-like and
plausible manner; but there still remains your
imprudent boast that you can raise the dead.
Reason and refine as you will— draw what hair­
breadth distinctions you please— you can neither
realize nor justify this rash expression.”
f 3
Digitized by Google
106 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ The expression is yours, not mine,” replied
Cagliostro. “ I never spoke of raising the dead.
Whether any portion of mind survives the dis­
solution of its frail and curious tenement, and
whether that surviving portion retains its former
consciousness, and individual identity, is a mys­
tery which I at least have never been able to
fathom. But this I know, that when the sim­
plest arrangement of organic matter is disturbed
or broken, all the theologians, poets, and philo­
sophers in the world, were their wits condensed
into a single skull, and multiplied a million­
fold, could never recombine the scattered par­
ticles into their original form.”
“ All this is rational enough,” said the Duke;
“ but you cannot eflace from my mind the
recollection of your previous conversation.”
“ Neither I nor any other man can raise the
dead,” replied Cagliostro; “ of that be sure;
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 107
but disbelieve upon reasonable grounds, and
not from a blind vague feeling of incredulity.
The whole human race could not restore life to
a single blade of withered grass. How then
could they reanimate the far more complicated
organization of the human body ? If we can­
not perform the lesser task, it is clear we cannot
the greater.”
“ Monsieur de Cagliostro,” said the Duke
with a smile, “ we will pass, if you please, to
another subject. It seems to me, that you are
talking against time— I mean that you are pro­
longing the conversation, until you can invent
an excuse for your indiscreet expression.”
“ I again reiterate,” exclaimed Cagliostro.
“ that the expression of raising the dead was
yours, not mine.”
“ Yet you spoke of conversing with Martin
Luther. To do this, you must first have raised
him.”
Digitized by Google
108 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
“ Not so,” replied Cagliostro. c
<By natural
means 1 have acquired so great a power over
the imagination and nervous system, that 1 can
cause the phantasm of a deceased individual
to be actually visible and audible to sight and
hearing, although no real apparition be present
extrinsic to the brain of the person operated
upon. In a word, I can affeet the optic and
auditory nerves, without the aid of external
impressions.**
“ Let us make the experiment,” cried Count
D’Ostalis, ever eager after anything that pro­
mised excitement or amusement, and glad to
stop a conversation which had already wearied
him. “ Show us Jean Jacques Rousseau.”
“ I have no objection,” said the Duke; “ but
I warn Count Cagliostro, that whatever success
he may have obtained, in making people of
irritable nerves and overwrought imaginations
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 109
the dupes of their own weakness, it is mere loss
of time to attempt the same plan with me. If
he wants me to see visions, and hear prophecies,
he must have recourse to ventriloquism, and
magic lanterns. Assuredly I shall behold
nothing but what he actually shows.”
“ Reserve your jests, Duke, for the moment
of failure,” replied Cagliostro. Then turning
towards the other nobleman, he observed, “ Is
it possible that the gay, light, unthinking Count
D’Ostalis can wish to contemplate the gloomy,
despairing, repining, thought-tortured, Rous­
seau? Is there in the moral world a secret
attraction between minds of the most different
quality; as in the material universe there is a
constant affinity between the most opposite
elements ?*
“ 1 am sure I don’t know,” answered Count
D ’Ostalis with a yawn; “ I wish that instead of
Digitized by Google
110 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
moralizing, you would show me Rousseau’s
ghost”
“ Your wish shall be gratified,” replied
Cagliostro; “ you shall behold the Genevese
enthusiast”
He went to a chest, from which he took two
moderate-sized phials, and presented them to
his visitors.
“ You must prepare yourself by drinking
these cordials,” said he.
The two noblemen complied with his request.
Count D’Ostalis seemed sobered by the act;
but the Duke appeared determined to maintain
his bravado to the last
“ I suppose, Count Cagliostro, you always
keep full-length portraits of Voltaire and Rous­
seau ready painted on the slides of your gallantee
show. By Bacchus,” added he, smacking his
lips, “ this liquor is delicious. Can you let me
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. I ll
have a few bottles from *your stock ? Name
your own price.”
441 am not a wine-merchant,” drily replied
Cagliostro. He then went to the side of the
apartment; and touching probably some secret
spring in the wall, the tapestry rolled up like
the curtain of a theatre, and disclosed a dark
recess, filled with a quantity of unknown and
uncouth apparatus. The Duke fancied that he
saw huge masses of polished steel, fashioned
somewhat after the shapes which are ordinarily
given to magnets. Coils of wire, which were
apparently interminable, together with wheels,
and pullies, and the other machinery requisite
for producing motion. But the darkness of
the recess prevented him from viewing any
object with precision or certainty. Across the
entrance was placed a black couch, on which
two persons might recline. The external sur-
Digitized by Google
112 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO !
face of this piece of furniture had the lustre
peculiar to metallic substances, and seemed to
be formed of a curiously woven tissue of diffe­
rent sized wires. Above the couch was sus­
pended a sort of canopy, which seemed composed
of the same materials.
“ Now, Messieurs,” said Caglio9tro, “ seat
yourselves on this metallic sofa.”
They obeyed the order. Count D’Ostalis
was serious; but the Duke burst into a fit of
laughter, in which however an acute ear might
have detected something forced.
Both soon reclined their heads upon the back
of the couch. In another minute they began
to breathe hard, although their eyes were still
open. Soon they were buried in profound
slumber.
How long they remained in this state, neither
the Count nor the Duke could tell; but from
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 113
what they afterwards saw, they presumed their
artificial slumbers were terminated by Cagli-
ostro himself. When they awoke, they found
that extraordinary man bending over them,
with looks of intense attention. With a large
watch, which he held in his hand, he intently
marked the time. So bewildered and over­
wrought were their senses by what they had
seen during the trance, that some time elapsed
before they could recollect where they were.
The Duke was the first to speak. “ Pardon
me, Cagliostro,” said he with an air of the
deepest respect, “ for the foolish expression I
was rash enough to apply to you, before I was
witness of your power. It is indeed great!
But how could I suppose it from your conver­
sation ? It is so common a talent in France
to talk well. Nay, the very ability with which
you played at words, made me doubt your prac­
tical skill in other matters.”
Digitized by Google
114 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ Make no apologies, Duke, but tell me what
saw you?”
“ Did you not see him yourself?” asked both
the noblemen in great surprise.
“ I saw nothing,” replied Cagliostro, “ for I
did not touch the sofa.”
“ That is strange,” said the Duke, “ for I
still continued to view both D’Ostalis and your­
self.”
“ And so did I,” added Count D’Ostalis.
“ And whom saw you besides,” asked Cagli­
ostro.
“ We saw an old man,” replied Count D’Os­
talis, “ who seemed aged with sufferings rather
than years. His face, and especially his figure,
indicated that he had once been eminently
handsome, or at any rate interesting. His
forehead was furrowed by grief or thought His
eyes were sunken, but still shone clear and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 115
b rig h t H is cheeks were hollow ; but, above
all, there were present about the mouth those
deep and fatal lines which inevitably follow the
bitter and repeated conflict o f contending pas­
sions.”
“ W hy, D ’Ostalis,” interrupted the D uke,
“ when did you ever notice the lines o f a face
before, or m oralize thereon ? T h e m agic sleep
has inspired him ,” added he to C agliostro; “ the
description is however adm irably e x a ct; I sub­
scribe to every word o f i t ”
“ A n d what said he 7* enquired Cagliostro.
M I will tell you,” said the D u k e ; “ I recollect
every syllable; his words are still ringing in m y
ears. A t first no sound reached us, although
his lips moved, and he seemed to speak. A t
length we heard a m urmur, as o f a distant
voice. It approached nearer; and at last fell
upon our ears, in distinct and m elancholy ac-
Digitized byGoogle
116 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO!
cents: ‘ Gay and gilded oppressors of your
brother-man— butterfly tyrants— silken despots
— ye have lost your ancestral strength and ar­
mour, and yet dare hope to continue with im­
punity the feudal outrages of your stout fore­
fathers. The career of your tribe draweth nigh
to a close.9 (Here,” said the Duke, “ I smiled
contemptuously on the surly plebeian.) 4Ay/
continued the voice, 4sneer, scoff, and be deaf
to all that might warn you of your approaching
fate. Flutter on from pleasure to pleasure,
shout, revel, and be gay, even as the sinners
were before the flood. A hurricane more
hideous than the watery deluge is silently gather­
ing. A darker doom than that which befell the
sinners of the old world awaits but the ripening
touch of time to burst upon your unconscious
and devoted heads. The feudal edifice, under
which ye have lived in pride and power for
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 117
eight centuries, totters to its base. In vain the
walls rise strong and high. In vain the haughty
turrets frown defiance on their plebeian as­
sailants. Look to the foundations— they have
long ago crumbled into dust. H ark! the
popular cannon is thundering at the gates.
Kings and nobles ! it is the people’s turn now—
they may not be resisted.
“ Ay, rush on, shed seasofblood,fill each neigh­
bouring country with ruined exiles. Accumulate
the ^glorious pile of broken hearts and severed
heads, until the mangled and gory heap touch the
clouds. All will not avail. Never, oh! never,
shall a land inhabited by Frenchmen become
the dwellingoffree men. Light and cruel race!—
half tiger, half monkey— ever ready to tear the
hand that would caress ye, but fawning with more
than spaniel baseness on the stern arm that is
able to wield the rod of despotism can ye
Digitized by Google
118 COUNT CA6LI0STE0 :
hope that the tree of liberty will flourish, when
watered with the blood of unoffending victims ?
Do ye dream that in uprooting the corner-stone
of social order ye are laying the foundations of
the arch of freedom ? Already ye have entered
the dull and fatal circle, which reconducts the
groaning nations, after much toil, blood, and
suffering, to the same miserable goal from
whence they started— first, tyranny and revolt—
then madness, confusion, anarchy— then tyranny
again.’ ”
“ You laugh at my descriptive powers,” cried
Count D’Ostalis, when the Duke had finished
speaking; “ I think I may compliment you on
your improved memory; and yet I think I
could enact the same feat myself, and repeat the
speech verbatim.”
“ To the last moment of your existence,”
observed Cagliostro, “ you will neither of you
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 119
forget the words which the Duke has just ut­
tered, such is the peculiar virtue of yonder
sofa.”
“ How do you relish the prophecy contained
in the phantasm's discourse?” asked the Duke.
“ It is not worth thinking about,” carelessly
replied the Count; “ I am told that Rousseau,
in his mad fits, used often to pour forth to his
private friends similar vaticinations.”
“ The phantasm,” said Cagliostro, “ naturally
repeats after death what its original was wont to
utter during life; and both will prove true.”
The Count D’Ostalis took a pinch of snuff.
“ Well,” said he, “ what will be my consolation
is, that the storm won't fall till the end of the
week; so, as I took the liberty to inform De
Fronsac an hour ago, when he began to talk
about politics, we may at any rate make our­
selves happy till Sunday.”
Digitized by Google
120 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ And what,” enquired the Duke, of Cagli­
ostro, “ do you predict will be my own indi­
vidual fate amidst the awful convulsions which
the phantom predicted ?”
“ I am neither seer nor prophet,’* replied
Cagliostro, “ but a humble follower of science
endowed with no inspiration but the resources
of my own skill. I cannot answer the question
in my own person, but you may ascertain the
truth yourself.”
“ By what means ? '
“ Seat yourself again on yonder mystic
couch,” replied Cagliostro. “ This time you
will lose your consciousness; and will not re­
collect anything that you may see, hear, or say.
But when brought under the magneto-electric
influence, you will readily answer all questions
that are proposed to you respecting your own
destiny.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 121
“ And how shall 1 ascertain the correctness
of your report ? ’ asked the Duke.
“ Count D’Ostalis shall witness the process.
Yet bethink you, it was not without good reason
that Dame Nature hid the future from our
prying eyes. The foreknowledge of your fate
will not enable you to avoid it. The anticipa­
tion may affect your mind with terror— may
inspire you with the profoundest caution, but all
in vain. The anticipation, and the terror, and
the caution, will constitute links in the immense
chain of pre-ordained events— nay, perhaps,
they may be made the very means of fulfilling
your destiny.’*
“ I should have thought,” answered the
Duke, “ that a fatalism so complete as yours,
would not have left me the choice of knowing
my fate or remaining in ignorance: but be that
as it may,” (and his haughty lip curled as he
VOL. II. o
Digitized by
122 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
spoke) “ be assured that terror forms no part of
my composition. I would rather know the
worst, and be satisfied.”
“ That is your deliberate resolution ?” de­
manded Cagliostro.
“ It is,” replied the Duke firmly.
“ Be it so. Your desire shall be gratified.
It is a pity,” muttered Cagliostro, as the Duke
walked boldly up to the couch, and seated him­
self on it, “ It is a pity so much moral courage
and such indomitable resolution never found a
fitting sphere of action.”
Cagliostro gave hhn as before a preparatory
draught, and then set his machinery in motion.
The Duke speedily sunk into deep slumber.
His eyes still remained open, but their sense
was shut; and there was something in the fixed
stare of his vacant pupils that made his com­
panions feel that he did not perceive them.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN, 123
Cagliostro, having accurately marked the time
by his watch, at last said in a forced and un­
naturally low tone of voice, “ Duke de Fronsac,
enact the last scene of thine own career.”
The sleeping nobleman seemed immediately
agitated by the most frightful convulsions. He
struggled fiercely, like one contending with a
crowd of assailants. The big drops of perspi­
ration broke out on his brow; his eyes rolled
with ghasdy force and rapidity, and his whole
appearance assumed the aspect of a victim re­
sisting his murderers, with desperate but in­
effectual efforts. At length words found their
way in broken gasps from his labouring bosom.
“ Drive on— who stops my carriage— over the
canaille, if they will not give way— ha ! what
means this? Weapons!— We are beset! Pierre !
Jacques, use your pistols.— Back caitiff! on
your life back !— Nay, if you will— ha! ha !
g 2
Digitized by Google
124 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO .*
ha ! I have still the other ball !— Ah ! take,
take your fingers from my throat— ruffians I
defy you all - spit at you— Cagliostro ! demon !
What dost thou here !”
“ This is dreadful! damnable!” exclaimed
Count D’Ostalis, exasperated beyond all endu­
rance by the horrible exhibition : “ Stop this
scene instantly— or I will drag him off the sofa
— I will by Heavens— ”
“ Patience !” said Cagliostro, “ you will kill
him if you are rash. I will break the trance.
See here— ” He applied a phial to the nostrils
of the agonized nobleman. The latter instantly
awoke, and arose from the sofa, like a person
who has just recovered from an epileptic fit,—
exhausted, but totally unconscious of the fearful
struggles by which he has been convulsed.
“ Good God,’1 cried he, stretching himself,
“ how hot and weary I feel: what is this,” conr
tinued he, putting his hand to his streaming
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 125
forehead. “ H a! what has happened ? Mon­
sieur de Cagliostro, what has blanched your
cheeks and made your lips white ? D’Ostalis,
why do you shake and tremble so ? What has
happened? what have I said?”
Neither answered.
A heart more impenetrable to fear than the
Duke de Fronsac’s, never beat beneath a cover­
ing of flesh; but terror is of all human passions
the most contagious; and under some circum­
stances the infection is irresistible. A cold chill
of apprehension ran through his exhausted
frame, as he stood gazing on the horror-stricken
countenances of his companions.
“ This matter,” said he, “ passes the bounds
of a frolic. It is not however too late to
retreat. Monsieur le Comte de Cagliostro, I
have a favour to ask of you. Tell me not a
syllable of what you have heard or seen.”
Digitized by Google
126 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ It is unnecessary for me to make such a
promise,*’ answered Cagliostro, as I never in-
tended to have opened my lips. I meant to
have left both the prophecy and the interpretar
tion entirely to your friend.”
wAnd you, D’Ostalis,” said the Duke, Mmay
I request your silence ? *
u Morbleu ! You never made a request
which I was more disposed to grant. If ever 1
whisper a word even to the walls of my own bed­
chamber, may the small-pox strike me.”
“ I do not think,” said the Duke, as though
he felt it necessary tojustify his conduct, “ that
my present desire implies a want of resolution
or courage; because a desire to be acquainted
with the future formed no part of my purpose
in coming hither. The object of my visit, was
to ascertain the extent of a power which I
thought fame had exaggerated.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 127
u In what manner, then,” asked Cagliostro,
i
“ do you wish to avail yourself of its influence ?”
“ First assure me of your assistance,” said
the Duke.
“ Nay,” replied Cagliostro, “ I will make no
blind promises. If you cannot trust my discre­
tion, it is unwise to employ me as your ally.”
“ True,” said the Duke; “ will you then in­
dulge me with an interview to-morrow evening?”
Cagliostro bowed assent.
The two nobleman then made their adieux,
and retired. They found their egress easier
than their entrance. The dark passage had
been furnished with a lamp, which enabled
them to find their way without any difficulty to
the outer door. On reaching the street, they
perceived their original conductor waiting for
them with a fiacre. They re-entered the vehi­
cle, and were set down at the exact spot where
they at first mounted it.
Digitized by Google
128 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
CH APTE R X X .
ENLISTING A TARTAR WORSE THAN CATCHING
HIM.
The Duke was punctual to his appointment;
he found the sympathetic valet in waiting at the
place of rendezvous. The scene of the preced­
ing night was again enacted, and the Duke
found himself in the presence of Cagliostro.
u I slept well last night,” said the Duke with
an air of bravado, c
‘ in spite of your incanta­
tions.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 129
<
cTo business,” replied the other, in a pe­
remptory tone.
“ With all my heart,” said the Duke. " With­
out farther preface, I will then communicate to
you the embarrassment I labour under. About
six years ago, I took under my protection a
young damsel of tender years, with the inten­
tion of promoting her, in due time, to the
honourable post of favourite mistress— ”
MHer parents sold her, then ? 9
“ Not precisely; but those whom accident
had invested with the authority of parents did
so.’*
“ How was this ?” asked Cagliostro.
“ The child was supposed to be the illegiti­
mate scion of a noble house, and was assigned
to the care of a poor artizan, a smith by trade,
who received twice a year a small sum for his
trouble. The allowance was discontinued; and
o 3
Digitized by Google
130 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO 5
the smith and his wife were too happy to hand
the child over to me for a few crowns. It saved
them the trouble of murdering it.”
“ And where did this human sale take place?”
inquired Cagliostro, with an anxiety which
struck the Duke as remarkable.
“ Why do you want to know ?” demanded
he. “ The name of the place has no connexion
with the enterprise I wish you to undertake.”
u How can you tell that ?” answered Ca­
gliostro, in an authoritative manner. “ Can
you pretend to trace the invisible and subtle
links which connect one event with another,
apparently the most remote and independent ?
Unless you treat me with unreserved confidence,
it is idle to proceed.”
“ I am not convinced by your reasoning,”
said the Duke; “ but it is enough that you wish
to know the facts. I respect even the whims
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 3 1
and phantasies of clever people. The name of
the village where this said smith lived, was, I
think, Forni, in the district of Perugia; and
that of the man was, if 1 am not mistaken,
Carlo Borromeo.”
“ Are you certain of these names ?” inquired
Cagliostro, in a low, hoarse tone.
“ Nearly so.— But what ails you ? you are as
white as you were the other night, after listen­
ing to my unconscious prophecies.**
“ It is nothing,”— gasped Cagliostro;— “ an
internal spasm.— Now it is past.— The facts
you have stated, Duke, are of the greatest im­
portance. I should have understood nothing
without them.*’
“ Well,” said the Duke, “ enlighten yourself
your own way. Let me continue. I repre­
sented myself to the girl as her guardian, and
gave her to understand that she was the daugh-
Digitized by Google
182 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
ter of a decayed noble, who had once been my
friend, and who was forced, from poverty, te
leave her in the care of the brutes from whom I
rescued her. I bestowed on her the best of
educations, at least as far as accomplishments
went. An old priest took care of her religion;
and her morals were left to take care of them­
selves. All this proceeded admirably; and at
sixteen the child had ripened into an absolute
Venus.”
“ What then ?” whispered Cagliostro, in a
husky tone.
“ You shall hear. A foolish bet, which I
made when half drunk, compelled me to take a
young puppy of an Englishman down to my
chateau, where I kept her, for the notable
purpose of estimating her beauty. Having
been once idiot enough to make the bet, I
thought I could not choose a safer person. The
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 133
fellow was like a lump of ice. Goodlooking
certainly. His form and features chiselled like
the statue of Apollo; but as destitute of life
and feeling as the marble of which the statue
is composed. He only staid, too, a single day ;
and yet, would you believe it? this devilish
girl grew warm at his sight, and, somehow or
other, must have contrived to warm him. I
fancy, too, that he must have given her a hint
of her real situation, for her manner was cer­
tainly changed to myself after his visit. Be that
as it may, the cursed bet which I had made— the
source of all my misfortunes—compelled me to
attack the girl somewhat prematurely. I spare
you the recital of the young lady's tragedy starts,
and ineffable disdain. She had never seen a
play; yet, had she been on a stage for twenty
years, she could not have enacted the indignant
heroine better. I tried menaces— worse and
Digitized by Google
134 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO t
worse. At last I used a little gentle violence—
don’t look so alarmed— it was very trifling—
just enough to excuse her own inclinations—
that's all. Well —in the most critical moment
of our struggle, who should burst in but the
cursed priest whom I have before mentioned.
Never was anything so inopportune. I felt as
though I could have subjected the fellow to
every martyrdom described in our legends. I
could have broiled him on the gridiron of S t
Lawrence,— could have crucified him with his
head downwards, like St. Peter. But what do
you think I did ?— why, nothing at all. Fiends
and firebrands ! I am ready to go mad, when I
think of my folly. I tamely allowed the ac­
cursed priest to escort her out of the ch&teau.
Idiot! idiot! that I was. The priest forwarded
the girl to some acquaintance of his at Paris. I
followed her, like a hungry lion. By the time I
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 135
found her out, she had contrived to earn a
living by the sale of drawings and ornamental
work. I soon undersold her, and cut off these
resources. The woman, too, with whom she
lodged, proved accessible to money, and became
very manageable. In a word, I had reduced
her to the lowest pitch of penury, and was on
the point of succeeding, when one night my
young lady comes home with a purse full of
gold—pays all her debts— and takes herself off
the next morning. For some time I lost sight
of her; at last I obtained traces of her existence;
— and under whose protection do you think I
found her living ?”
" I— I cannot guess,” stammered out Ca-
gliostro, who seemed unusually confused.
" Even under that of the accursed coxcomb
whom I was mad enough to have admitted into
my chateau. To give the crowning stroke to
Digitized by Google
136 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
my discomfiture, it was necessary that a miracle
shouldhappen— thata stock, astone, aninsensible
brute, should become a man. I waited,— and,
morbleu! the said miracle did happen. May
the wrath of God confound the fellow----- ”
“ Amen !” said Cagliostro, in a deep voice.
“ Bravo!” exclaimed the Duke. “ That is
the first word you have uttered that sounds like
sympathy. You looked so gloomy during the
story, that I really thought you were taking
part with the girl, instead of myself.”
“ I do not think her exchequer,” said Car
gliostro, “ will enable her bribes to vie with
those of the Duke de Fronsac.”
“ Ah ! that is the true principle of action.—
Now we understand each other. You have
given me proofs of your power— it is marvellous
and incomprehensible. I believe that you can
achieve any thing within the bounds of human
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 187
possibility. Now, mark me. I choose to be
foolish, mad, frantic, respecting this girl. Decoy
her back to my hdtel— overcome her reluctance
— make me her successful suitor,— and I will
gorge you with money.”
Cagliostro remained silent for some time.
At last he said: “ I wonder, Duke, that a man
of your undaunted courage, and notorious skill
at his weapon, did not personally chastise the
presumptuous offender.”
“ Such was my first and natural emotion,”
replied the Duke; “ but, on reflection, though
I am no coward, I began to doubt whether the
plan would be successful. I have seen him
fence, and his proficiency is great— certainly
equal to my own. Then his advantage in point
of youth would turn the odds fearfully against
me. I am afraid I should be foiled, in every
sense ot the word.”
Digitized by Google
138 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ A nobleman of the land from whence you
took this girl, would long ago have put such an
impertinent rival under ground,” observed Ca-
gliostro.
“ Perhaps so,” replied the Duke; “ but there
are limits to every one’s roguery. I dislike
assassination. It is beyond the line which I
will not pass. No— no. Ransack the resources
of your fertile brain, my dear Cagliostro.—
Give her some love philtre— some of your pre­
paratory draughts. The power to accomplish
the task is not wanting, if the inclination be
present: of that I am convinced. There are
plenty of ways and means. The mystery of her
birth renders her open to deception on that
point. Introduce yourself to her as the Conte
di Volterra. Such I have told her is the
name of her family. Pretend to be her father.
“ Excellent!” exclaimed Cagliostro, break-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 189
ing into a fit o f wild laughter. “ E x ce lle n t!
I will pretend to be her father. Adm irable
id e a ! O h, I think I may pretend to be her
tfather P
“ N ot,” continued the D uke, “ that I would
wish to lim it your expansive genius to the exe­
cution o f m y own m eagre inventions. I only
threw out the idea as a suggestion.”
“ D uke, I thank you for the hint,” resumed
Cagliostro, with a sort o f frantic gaiety. “ Yes,
I will pretend to be her father.”
“ Adieu, then, for the present,” said the
D u k e ; “ when shall I receive news from you ?”
“ In four days, at the farthest,” returned
Cagliostro. “ A gain I thank you for your
obliging hint. Y e s— I will pretend to be her
father.”
Digitized byGoogle
140 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
C H A P T E R X X L
A RELATION DROPPED FROM THE CLOUDS.
One m orning, when Cleveland was compelled
b y business from E ngland to be absent, A n to­
nia was informed b y the old woman who lived
with her, and superintended her domestic eco­
nom y, that a strange gentlem an earnestly de­
sired to speak with her. N ot liking the tone
and m ystery o f the message, and apprehending
some fresh machination o f the D uke de Fronsac,
Antonia intimated that the stranger must either
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 141
communicate his business by w riting, or defer
his visit till a more convenient period. M adam e
Thibaut, who seemed to have her own reasons
for favouring the stranger’s entrance, and had
probably received in anticipation a douceur for
that purpose, endeavoured to alter her mistress’s
determination ; but A ntonia was firm. T h e
duenna left the room grum bling, but to the
surprise and indignation o f Antonia, reappeared
the moment afterwards, ushering in the identi­
cal stranger, whom she had been instructed to
dismiss. She had however no time to scold;
for her visitor immediately addressed her. H e
was a handsome m iddle-aged man, whose dress
indicated that he belonged to the higher orders
o f society.
“ Y o u r nam e,” said he, “ is I believe Antonia
di V olterra?”
“ It is, sir,” replied Antonia, who had not
Digitized byGoogle
142 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
yet prepared a suitable remonstrance on the
im propriety o f his conduct.
“ Y ou were brought up under the protection
o f the D uke de Fronsac ?” pursued he.
“ I was, sir, though I cannot understand by
what right an entire stranger puts such ques­
tions.”
U I come on the behalf o f your maternal
uncle, the C ount Orroboni.”
“ I am not aware,” stammered Antonia, con­
fused and agitated, and hardly knowing what
to say, “ I am not aware o f the existence of
any such relative.”
“ Probably not,” returned the stranger calm ly;
“ to announce the fact o f m y friend’s relation­
ship, and to explain the reason w hy you never
heard o f his name before, formed the object o f
m y visit.” So saying he seated him self without
invitation opposite to Antonia, on whom he
%
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 143
gazed intently, and began to tell his story with
the air o f a man who is determ ined not to
depart before he has fulfilled his mission.
“ Y o u r father, M ademoiselle, the Conte di
Volterra, becam e obnoxious to the governm ent
under which he lived, and only saved his life
b y a tim ely flight from its territories. H is
property was confiscated; and he died a broken­
hearted exile. H is wife did not long survive
him. H er brother, your maternal uncle, was
at this time absent from the country. A dis­
tant relation, whose name I have not been able
to discover, put you out to nurse in the country
with certain obscure artizans. Some unknown
circumstances suspended his rem ittances; and
the people to whom you were entrusted treated
you with cruelty. From this situation you
were rescued by the D uke de Fronsac. D o
not start— I am aware o f the odious motives
Digitized byGoogle
144 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
by which his apparent generosity was actuated.
Y o u owe him no gratitude. A b out two years
ago, your uncle returned to his native country,
and learnt for the first time the sad fate o f his
sister's family. Since that period he has been
indefatigable in his endeavours to obtain tidingB
o f his lost niece. A bout a year ago, I had
occasion to travel into France. T h ere was a
rumour current in the village where you had
been brought up, that you had been carried
into that country. W hen I took m y leave o f
your uncle, he gave me a casket o f valuable
jewels. ‘ If* said be, ‘ you ever meet my
niece, make known to her my existence and
give her these jewels. T h ey will serve to con­
firm your romantic story, and m ay very possibly
be o f service to her, should she be in want o f
pecuniary assistance.1” W ith these words, he
put into Antonia’s hand an open jewel-case,
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 145
the inside o f which was blazing with a magnifi­
cent set o f diamonds. Antonia was painfully
perplexed. She had strong reasons for believ­
ing the stranger's narrative, wild and extraordi­
nary as it sounded. It tallied with all she knew
o f her own history. Besides, how could any
scheme o f imposition be forwarded by transfer­
ring the property in such valuable jew els, from
him self to her ?
A few months ago, the discovery o f so near
a relation as an uncle, would have filled her
with the liveliest joy. From how much misery
— from how much error— such a protector
would have saved h e r! N ow matters were
different. She had made a fatal and irreparable
step. She had committed a fault, which the
world never forgives in a woman. O f what use
was it to recognize the relationship the stranger
spoke of. W hen this Italian nobleman should
VOL. II. h
Digitized byGoogle
146 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
discover that she was living with one who wa9
not her husband; he would doubtless repudiate
her with contempt and disgust. It was better
not to commence a connexion which could not
be lasting, and whose termination must be at­
tended with pain. A t length Antonia spoke:
“ I throw no imputations, sir, on the truth o f
your story, although it is strange that none o f
these particulars should have ever reached me
before. H ad the existence o f the gentlem&n
whom you affirm to be m y uncle, been made
known to me some months earlier, I should
have hailed with rapture the idea o f finding
a protector and a relation in the same person.
B ut circumstances have happened, which when
they come to the knowledge o f the Count O rro-
boni, will take from him all desire to acknow­
ledge me as his niece.”
“ T h e Count O rroboni,” replied the stranger,
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 147
“ is o f a mild and forbearing temper, and will
know how to discriminate between those faults
which are the offspring o f a vicious disposition,
and those which are the result o f an unfortunate
situation/’
“ Enough, sir,” said Antonia, who seemed
to be writhing beneath the pain which the
stranger’s allusions inflicted. “ T a k e back the
jew els— give, if you will, my best thanks to the
Count Orroboni, for that generosity which I
am obliged to decline; but believe, me, you
will best consult the happiness o f both, by never
inform ing him o f m y existence/’
“ Perm it me to rem ind you, M adem oiselle,”
said the stranger, “ o f the advantages which
you would have derived from the connexion.”
“ I can easily imagine them,” hastily answered
A n ton ia; “ but my resolution is fixed.”
“ L et your uncle at least have the consolation
h 2
Digitized byGoogle
148 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
of knowing that you are happy in the position
to which you so obstinately adhere. Will you
empower me to assure him that you are con­
tented with your lot ?”
“ Oh yes— yes,” said Antonia hurriedly and
in a low tone, as if rather speaking to herself
than answering the question. “ Too much so—
too much so. Yes, I am happy— unboundedly
happy— happier than I ought to be— far happier
than I deserve to be.”
c
<Heaven be praised !” said the stranger, in
a voice of deep sympathy. “ May your feelings
never change. But this is a world in which
nothing is fixed or constant.”
“ Ah, the future!” cried Antonia. “ I do
not look at that— I am so happy, that I am
absorbed by the present. But take back your
jewels,” added she, for the stranger rose as if
with the intention of departing; “ I cannot
accept the gift.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 149
“ They are yours—absolutely yours,” returned
he. “ I have merely held them, until I could
find the rightful owner. Fling them away, if
you like; but I can neither commit the dis­
honesty of appropriating them to myself, nor
can I insult the original donor by returning
them to him.”
Antonia would have remonstrated farther,
but before she could speak, the stranger had
left the room.
A new subject of perplexity now occurred to
Antonia; should she relate the stranger’s visit
and his strange communications to Cleveland ?
Many considerations induced her to keep them
secret He had of late expressed some uneasi­
ness respecting her future prospects: she felt
sure that he would disapprove of her hasty
rejection of her uncle's overtures: she dreaded
lest he should consult her interests at the expense
Digitized by Google
150 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
of her happiness, and persuade her to live with
her uncle. This idea constituted the real
motive of her peremptory refusal to negotiate
her admission to his family. She shrunk, it is
true, from the painful observations that would
necessarily be passed on her conduct; but she
shrunk still more from the idea of a successful
arrangement with her uncle, which would lead
to her being received into his house. This
plan involved separation from Cleveland; and
that----- her heart grew sick at the mere possi­
bility of such a misfortune— it was misery worse
than death. Another point of doubt with
Antonia, was the value of the jewels. She was
auxious to ascertain the real worth of these
ornaments; because she felt that if these gems
were genuine, their ready production and bes­
towal by the stranger would constitute a very
strong argument in favour of the truth of his
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 151
narrative. It was exceedingly improbable that
one, whose object was extortion or imposition,
should consent in the very outset of his plan to
the loss of such costly articles. In this difficulty
she had recourse to Cleveland, to satisfy her
doubts. This step, considering her resolution
of secrecy with respect to the transaction with
which they were connected, might seem strange
and inconsistent to one who was not acquainted
with the nature of the feelings which subsisted
between Antonia and her lover.
There is a species of love, says Rousseau, so
intense as to exclude all possibility of jealousy.
Antonia well knew how deeply the confidence
and affection of Cleveland were rooted, and felt
assured that circumstances a thousand times
more suspicious than the present could never
shake their stability, or induce him to harbour
a thought that was unfavourable to her. Nor
Digitized by Google
152 -COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
was she deceived;— when she showed him the
ornaments, Cleveland much admired their
beauty, and assured Antonia, in answer to her
questions respecting their value, that the stones
were large, genuine, and of the first water.
“ But,” added he, “ as the fairy times when
people talked jewels have long gone by, and as
even such gifted persons as yourself, dearest
Antonia, must now be content to utter meta­
phorical gems; permit me to enquire how you
became possessed of such valuable ornaments ?”
“ That is a secret,” replied Antonia, smiling,
“ you must not ask me— indeed you must not—
I cannot tell you at present. Trust m e!”
continued she, emphatically.
u I will,” he replied, with equal emphasis;
“ and I even thank you for the opportunity you
have given me of showing my confidence.
Believe me, love, I did not ask from doubt or
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 153
suspicion, but from simple curiosity. At your
request I banish the feeling, and blow it away
from me thus— ” added he, playfully suiting
the action to the word. “ Now it is gone !”
h 3
Digitized by Google
154 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
C H APTER X X II.
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
A few days after the scene related in the fore­
going chapter, the Marchioness de Montolieu
received the following letter. It bore neither
date, signature, nor postmark. But, alas! the
person to whom it was addressed knew only
too well the quarter from whence it came, and
the subjects to which it alluded.
“ I pledged myself not to obtrude upon your
attention any token either of my existence or
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 155
my attachment. I have kept my word; but it
was part of our compact— it was agreed upon
between us, on that memorable evening when
we last met, that you would endure the igno­
miny of my correspondence, should I succeed
in discovering any traces of that unfortunate
being, who was committed, as I have before
told you, to the care of an Italian mechanic.
Not only am I acquainted with her present
situation and residence; but I have been ena­
bled to track all the circumstances of her life,
up to the present hour. At the age of ten
years she was adopted, or rather purchased
from the sordid hind to whom she was entrusted,
by a nobleman, who I dare say is well known
to you—the Duke de Fronsac. Do not sup­
pose that the act was dictated by benevolence.
It was but the first step to a cold, calculated,
deliberate scheme of seduction. But however
Digitized by Google
156 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO !
base and perfidious his motives, his conduct in
the first instance conferred upon her that in­
valuable boon—a good education. True it is,
that the rules he prescribed for her guidance
were solely calculated to expand the intellect
and taste, while they left moral feelings unculti­
vated. Yet when the reasoning of a young
person is early developed, the means of form­
ing a correct judgment upon moral points, is
placed within her reach; and, in the absence of
any corrupting bias, her natural election will
generally be in favour of what is right. In this
treacherous, but not unornamented retreat,
Antonia (for that is her name) passed several
years; during which time she had gradually
exchanged the interesting graces of a pretty
child for the more exciting charms of woman­
hood. The period had now arrived when the
Duke thought that his past care, foresight, and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 157
forbearance, would reap an ample reward of
easy pleasure; but, like many other ingenious
people, he overshot the mark at which he
aimed. His plans failed from excess of refine­
ment In endowing his proposed victim with
all those mental charms, which he fancied
would enhance his anticipated enjoyment, he
had rendered her superior to the sordid con­
siderations which animate so many of her sex.
She shrunk with natural horror from the idea of
selling herself to a man of disproportionate
age and uncongenial disposition. Her clear
strong sense taught her that favours conferred
with an evil intention, which were meant to
work mischief rather than benefit to the re­
ceiver, could impose no rational ties upon her
gratitude. By the assistance and interference
of a priest, who frequented the Duke’s chateau,
she effected a flight to Paris; leaving to the
Digitized by Google
158 COUNT CAQLIOSTEO :
baffled sensualist the stinging reflection, that
the paragon of physical and mental beauty
which he had laboured to create, and hoped to
appropriate to his own selfish gratification,
could only be possessed and enjoyed by those
whose intrinsic personal merits rendered them
worthy of such a prize. In Paris she endea­
voured to maintain herself by her own exer­
tions, and for a time succeeded; but her re­
morseless persecutor followed her to the capital,
surrounded her with his machinations, and soon
cut off the slender resources which her in­
genuity had discovered. Overwhelmed with
the unaccustomed evils of poverty— despairing
of all help— she was tempted to apply to her
misery that dark and dismal remedy, which
constitutes the utmost limits of human punish­
ment for the worst offences. From this melan­
choly resource, so much grudged by the happier
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 159
part of mankind to their unfortunate fellow-
creatures, she was saved by the interposition of
a young Englishman, named Cleveland. This
person, it appears, had been already introduced
to Antonia, by her perfidious protector, for the
purpose of deciding some licentious bet. He
availed himself of this slight acquaintance to
offer her the amplest and most liberal relief—a
*
relief which I am bound to say originated in
pure and humane motives, and was unshackled
by any degrading conditions. What was the
unhappy girl to do? Was she to reject gifts
proffered with so much delicacy, and persist in her
frightful resolution ? Alas ! she accepted them.
You will anticipate the fatal result. Yet I am
firmly convinced it was not contemplated or
intended by either at the commencement of
their acquaintance. His youth, his fine form
and handsome countenance, his agreeable man-
Digitized by Google
160 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
ners; the recollection of his frank and disin­
terested generosity, which was advantageously
contrasted with De Fronsac’s insidious benefits;
the absence of any other object to distract her
ideas— all conspired to render him a dangerous
companion. The impossibility of finding a
suitable match, in point of education and feel*
ings, in the rank of life to which she had sunk,
•
and the want of natural advisers and protectors,
must also be considered in her defence. She
yielded to the daily, ever renewing temptation,
and became his mistress; but it was no base
compact; it was no vile exchange of illicit plea­
sure for a dishonourable subsistence. The best
feelings of her nature were unfortunately en­
listed against her happiness. Her conscience
sounded no alarm. Where was the harm of
loving one so young, so amiable, so every way
fitted to be an object of attachment? Without
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 161
worldly experience, was her simple unassisted
reason alone sufficient to resist the delusions of
a heated and erring imagination— to unmask
the sophistries of passion, or to control the in­
toxication of love felt for the first time in all
its primal energy and strength? The world
makes no distinction between the woman who
falls the victim of feelings, which under happier
circumstances might have proved a blessing
and a glory to her, and she who deliberately
sacrifices herself to gratify the base desires of
avarice and luxury. But can you— can any of
your sex at the bottom of their hearts really
approve of this cruel injustice? Will you, for
this single error, reject her— cast her off—aban­
don all farther interest in her fate ?
“ By a singular coincidence, the greater part
of the foregoing tale was related to me by its
principal and most guilty actor, the Duke de
Digitized by Google
162 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO :
Fronsac. I also collected much from an old
woman who fills the double office of housekeeper
and companion to Antonia. If you wish to
see her you may gratify your curiosity by an
easy method. I ascertained from her duenna
that either tomorrow, or the day after, she will
call at a mercer’s shop to purchase some articles
of dress. The time she chooses for such pur­
poses is generally two. I send you a slight
sketch of Antonia and of her attendant, in
which the colour and fashion of their dress is
exactly delineated. With this assistance, if you
can manage to enter the shop at the same hour,
I think you cannot fail to recognize her. In
what manner you will avail yourself of the in­
formation which this letter contains — what
course you will adopt towards this unfortunate
yet interesting girl, I leave to your own feelings
to decide. If your views and wishes be at all
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 168
within the compass of possibility, need I say
what double delight I shall feel in carrying
them into execution ? I await an exposition
of your feelings on the subject. Direct an
answer, if you deign any, to Brisseau, Printer
and Copper-plate Engraver, 15, Rue de Les-
digueres, Faubourg St. Antoine. Do not trust
it to the post; for the police are in the habit of
inspecting the letters, and of opening any that
excite their suspicion. Go boldly in your
carriage to the printing office, and direct your
servant to leave the packet, to be altered accord­
ing to the written instructions contained within.”
THE ANSWER TO THE ABOVE.
u Thanks ! a thousand thanks to you for your
precious yet agitating intelligence. I received
the information with fearful pleasure. My
heart bounds with joy at the thoughts of seeing
Digitized by Google
164 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO J
this long lost but not forgotten being; and yet
a dim presentiment of evil tells me that I am
embarking in a perilous course, of which the
issue is dark and menacing, I must look again
at your letter. Reject her ! cast her off! aban­
don her! Do you speak these words in mockery
and irony; or do you know so little of a mother’s
heart, as to think she could ever view her own
—her only— child with the careless eye, the cold
indifference of a stranger? Do you imagine
that the mere lapse of some seventeen summers
and winters can eradicate the strongest affection
of my nature ? N o; were I placed on a much
loftier eminence than I now occupy; and were
I to see my daughter a beggar, covered with
rags and infamy, shunned, despised, and deserted
by all, I would descend from my height, embrace
the poor persecuted outcast, take her to my
home and bosom,— relieve her misfortunes, or
Digitized by Google
Ofc, THE CHARLATAN* 165
share her fate. Av, this and much more would
1 do, in spite of the scoffs and sneers of the sur­
rounding world. Alas ! you little know the
desperate fidelity of maternal attachment. But
do not be alarmed. I intend to take no step
which will in the smallest degree compromise
my rank or character; for I can far more effec­
tually serve my child while in the possession of
wealth and station, than if I were in her own
sad and precarious situation.
I cannot decide anything before I see her—
the mere idea throws my spirits into such a
flutter of expectation that I cannot seriously
bend my thoughts to the consideration of the
different schemes for her benefit which suggest
themselves to my mind. I cannot rest— I can*
not think, until I see her. * * *
* * * *
* * * *
Digitized by Google
166 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO:
* * * “ I have seen her !
I have heard her speak! Guided by the in*
structions contained in your letter, I repaired
to the mercer’s shop which you said she fre­
quented. I was fortunate enough to meet her
accompanied by an old woman who seemed her
attendant. How bright and beautiful she
looked! She gave some trifling order to the
shopman— the tones ofher voice thrilled through
my heart. Oh ! that I could have strained her
to my bosom and called her child— darling—
my own Antonia ! I would have given worlds
for a single embrace. I would have knelt to
any one who would have supplied me with an
excuse for speaking to her. I strove to address
her but in vain, my tongue clove to the roof of
my mouth— my voice died away in my throat—
I was forced to suppress my feelings, and speak
to the officious shopman, who had brought me
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 167
some silks to inspect. By way of gaining time,
I told him, without looking at them, that those
were not the articles I wanted. At the sound
of my voice she turned round and looked at me.
Yes, I felt her soft eloquent eyes turned on me
—on me her mother, with the indifferent gaze
of a stranger— I wonder I did not faint. After
a momentary glance she walked out of the shop*
Alas ! I could not detain her; and the beauti­
ful vision vanished from my eager eyes. So
long as she was present, I was absorbed in the
contemplation of her charms. I could think of
nothing but her unrivalled loveliness ; but when
she had departed, I recollected* your fatal ac­
count of her present condition. Oh G od!
This was what I foreboded! My worst feare
are realized ! As far as I am concerned, this
bitter and terrible blow may be retribution. I
could endure my own agony in silent submission.
Digitized by Google
168 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
But alas! the worst part of this misery will fall
on Antonia. She is doomed to expiate in her
own person the crimes of her parents. The
fault was not her’s, poor child ! but upon her
will fall the punishment of society— the pain,
the sorrow and shame, which sooner or later
must overtake every woman who violates its
laws. But this must not be— we must prevent
this terrible injustice— we must indeed, my dear
friend— yes, I will call you friend— preserver—
benefactor— anything— if you will but exert
your powers to save my Antonia from her im­
pending fate. She cannot be depraved ! It is
impossible! those beautiful eyes were full of
goodness— there was an air of purity in her face
that could not be mistaken— her whole deport­
ment, too, was indicative of modesty and pro­
per feelings. No ! no! she is the victim of
circumstances— you said so yourself. How
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 169
shall we break off this odious connexion ? You
tell me that she appears enthusiastically attached
to this young Englishman. It is dreadful to
think that her young affections should be thus
wasted ! Unhappy delusion I Miserable in­
fatuation ! What a mockery is it in a man to
talk of love, while he is irreparably injuring a
woman in the estimation of her fellow-creatures,
and preparing for her future years of misery
and disgrace. He has it in his power, by mar­
riage, to make her happy and respected. He
deliberately refuses to take that step, and yet
has the shameless hypocrisy, the disgusting
effrontery, to swear that he loves her. How
loves ?— why as the vermin loves the fruit it
feeds on and destroys. Such a man may dote
on her complexion— may adore the symmetry
of her fair form— but he is surely not in love ;
or if he is, it is with his own passion, and not
VOL. II. i
Digitized by
170 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
with the pretended object of his affection. The
Count iyOstalis has promised to introduce him
to me this evening. I am all anxiety to see
and converse with this destroyer of my hopes,
and to form some estimate of his character. I
hear he has obtained the soubriquet of the
English poco-curante, from his coldness and
indifference; but Count D’Ostalis tells me that
he has much changed of late.
“ You may perhaps smile at the ardour of
my attachment for a being of whom I have
seen and known so little. Not one man in a
hundred can comprehend the feelings of woman
on that subject. I have always passionately
desired to have offspring. I never saw a beggar
press her infant to her bosom, but I could have
cried from very despair at my want of children.
I felt as if I could willingly have exchanged my
childless rank and splendour, for her rags and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 171
poverty, accompanied by so sweet a consolation.
Joyfully, indeed, would I have sacrificed the
hollow and insipid pleasures of society, for the
felicity of possessing a little cherub, attached to
me by that nameless spell implied in the word
‘ my own/ Alas ! I am well assured, from the
unsatisfied and craving longings of maternity
which are alive within me, although not from
experience, that there is no purer or more ex­
quisite pleasure in life, than a mother’s rapture
as she bends over her sleeping infant. Long
ago, I should have adopted a child, but the
Marquis, indifferent as he is to my proceedings
in other respects, absolutely opposed himself to
this step. Conceive then my agitation, after
long years of deferred hope, to find my own—
my long-lost child, in the prime of her youth—
lovely— amiable— accomplished— all that could
have fitted her to be the dearest of friends, as
i 2
Digitized by Google
172 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
well as the most loved of children— to find her
all this, and the prey of a libertine. Oh God !
my brain whirls round and verges on insanity,
when I think on this, and reflect that I am the
cause. * * * * *
* * * * * *
“ Yesterday I went to a soiree where Mon­
sieur Cleveland was expected to be present.
D’Ostalis had promised to introduce him to
me, but he did not arrive for some time after
the other, so I had ample leisure to contemplate
this pernicious Englishman before I formed
his acquaintance. His person is finely formed,
and his countenance handsome and intelligent;
but it is pervaded by an air of dissatisfaction
and melancholy, which rather impairs the effect
that his very pleasing features would otherwise
produce. However, when he smiles or grows
animated in conversation, I must confess his
Digitized byGoogle
OR) THE CHAKLATAN. 178
physiognomy becomes very agreeable. As soon
as I had concluded these reflections, D’Ostalis
made his appearance, and brought Monsieur
Cleveland up to me. What a strange sensation
I experienced when I first began to talk to
him. In fact, mine was an extraordinary posi­
tion. Here was I, with my aching heart and
heavy spirits, smiling and bowing to the cause
of my misery, and talking calmly, politely, and
graciously, to the man who was the seducer of
my daughter!
“ Our conversation was at first flat and un­
interesting enough. We confined ourselves to
the hackneyed insipid topics of the day on which
strangers usually discourse. At last Count
D’Ostalis addressed to me some fa d e flowery
compliments on the irresistible influence of
female charms.
“ I was thinking of Antonia at the moment,
Digitized byGoogle
174 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
and in the fulness and bitterness of my heart I
answered, ‘ that it was indeed customary for
men to address women, more especially when
they were young and handsome, in a tone of
affected deference and softness, which they do
not use to their own sex; but that the use of
this hypocritical style did not prevent women
from being treated, on certain occasions, both
by laws and individuals, with the utmost bar­
barity and cruelty; and that, in return for
these idle, unmeaning, unfelt, demonstrations of
respect, they deprived us of all power of inde­
pendence and free action. ‘ I appeal to your
decision, Monsieur Cleveland, to pronounce
whose opinions on this subject are justest— mine
or Count D’Ostalis’s?
“ *I think,’ replied he, *that the complaint
of Madame la Marquise is well founded. The
common language of men to women is very
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 175
insincere and deceitful. Look at their acts;
examine the laws of even civilized countries.
It is easy to see who were the legislators, and
for whose benefit they legislated. That which
is considered as a jest— nay, as an amiable
frailty, in a man's conduct, is visited on the
woman in many places with death, in others with
perpetual imprisonment, in others with infamy,
and in all with ruin. In the regulation of her
conduct, she is considered a free agent and
punished accordingly; in the regulation of her
property, she is deemed a child, or an idiot; and
except in particular cases, the disposition and
power over it is transferred to her husband.’
“ I have always felt strongly on these points;
and I was both surprised and pleased, when I
heard Monsieur Cleveland give utterance to
such sentiments; but before I could reply,
D’Ostalis, who had been listening to him with
extreme impatience, broke in.
Digitized byGoogle
176 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
“ ‘ I admit,’ said he, ‘ that women are re­
stricted to a small share of legal and recognized
power, but look at the immense extent of their
secret underhand influence throughout the
whole of society. Nothing is more different
than law and fact. By the French law of suc­
cession, women are excluded from the throne,
and yet who during the last century have been
the real sovereigns of France? Louis the
Fourteenth, Louis the Fifteenth, Louis the Six-
teenth ? or Madame de Maintenon, Madame de
Pompadour, and Marie Antoinette ?
“ I made no answer, for I wished to hear
Cleveland speak. He quickly answered: ‘ The
unavowed and illegitimate influence, attained
by a few individuals, argues nothing in favour
of female happiness, and does not improve the
general condition of the sex. On the contrary,
the facts you adduce, are only a melancholy
example, that cut off from legitimate means of
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 177
obtaining power and wealth, they are apt to
prostitute that beauty and those feelings, which
were intended as the source of purest happiness
to themselves and others, to the gratifications
of ambition and avarice/
“ Count D’Ostalis took snuff, and either had
no answer ready, or did not wish to continue
the discussion. I intently regarded Cleveland.
He was plunged in a reverie; his eyes were
fixed on vacancy. What was the subject of his
thoughts? Was conscience suggesting the dis­
crepancy between his theoretical sentiments
and his practical conduct? Could it be that
this man, who saw with such clearness, and
avowed with such frankness and candour, what
so few of his sex have honesty enough to con­
fess— could he be the seducer of my Antonia ?
Was this generous courage on the weaker side,
this earnestness in favour of unpopular truth,
i 3
Digitized byGoogle
178 COUNT CAGLI08TR0 S
compatible with unworthy acts? I broke the
silence by exclaiming, ‘ what a charming thing
it would be, if all the professors and utterers of
fine sentiments and noble principles, actually
carried them into practice. France would then
be Utopia— Paradise/
4
44Do you impute insincerity to my opinions T
asked Cleveland, with a smile.
“ 4No/ said I, 4I believe you speak as you
think; but though you recognize the truth as a
mere matter of speculation, there is a guilty
expression in your face, which tells me that you
have as little inclination as any other man to
adopt it as your rule of action.”
4
4
4 Ah, Madame Y cried D’Ostalis, 4your last
remark excites my liveliest admiration. The
secrets of friendship ought to be inviolable* I
will never betray them, or else I could bring
such evidence against my excellent and amiable
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 179
friend, Monsieur Cleveland, as would amply
bear out your opinion, that he is only rougher
and ruder than other men, and not a bit more
honest.’
“ * If my love of truth,* rejoined Cleveland,
‘ leads me now and then to whisper it in a friend’s
ear, I have no desire to fall a martyr to abstract
principles. Believe me, no man, whateverbe his
natural disposition, can ever be much in advance
of his fellow-creatures in practical virtues. They
will soon stop his progress. Conceive some
enlightened reformer in Turkey giving liberty
to his wives— throwing open their prison doors,
and entertaining mixed parties in the harem.
What would be the result— partial or general
imitation? No! His friends and contempo­
raries would think, and call him a beast; his wives
would soon abuse his indulgence, and then plead
his insane and unseemly conduct as an excuse;
Digitized byGoogle
180 COUNT CAOLIOSTEO:
and finally a virtuous and indignant populace
would tear him to pieces/
“ The true meaning of this speech I considered
to be, that his own inclinations would prompt
him to do justice to Antonia; but that his
dread of the world’s censure withheld him from
executing his generous intentions. Such at
least was the interpretation my maternal par­
tiality drew from his words. I much wished to
have continued the subject; nor do I think
that Cleveland was averse to its discussion: but
Count iyOstalis taking advantage of the pause,
burst into an elaborate description and criticism
of a young debutante, who had made her first
appearance, the preceding night, at the Theatre
Frangais, When he had finished, I found it
impossible to renew our former subject; and
the conversation permanently subsided into
fashionable small talk.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 181
“ The more I see of Cleveland, the better I
like him; the easier I find excuses for Antonia.
I cannot imagine how he acquired the nickname
of ‘ poco-curante.’ To me he appears to possess
much greater depth and seriousness of feeling,
than the majority of those who affect to fix upon
him that appellation. But everybody agrees in
saying that his character and manners have of
late sustained great alteration. Can this change
proceed from his acquaintance with Antonia?
O h! that I dared think so!
“ I have been weighing and meditating, with
all the force of thought that I am capable of
exerting, whether it is probable that Cleveland
will ever marry Antonia; and I have arrived
at the bitter conclusion, that the hope of that
event is extremely small. Supposing, then, my
forebodings to be true, it is evident we cannot
better serve Antonia, than by inducing her to
Digitized by Google
182 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
renounce her present rash and fatal connexion.
No doubt the effort will at first cost her much
pain; but this will pass away, and be succeeded
by a peace of mind which she cannot know at
present. A few hours of temporary grief, which
time and occupation will soon alleviate, are well
endured, if they purchase her exemption from
future years of irreparable misery. For how
can those be permanently happy who have for­
feited, whether justly or unjustly, the respect of
their fellow-creatures?
“ A plan has occurred to me, which, if you
think it capable of being realized, would afford
Antonia a safe and honourable asylum, while it
allowed me to enjoy the constant pleasure of her
company. Suppose I introduced her into my
house as a relation— say a niece. I am certain
my husband would make no objection to the
proposition; for with him a handsome guest is
Digitized by Google
OR, THIS CHARLATAN. 183
always acceptable, especially of the fair sex. If
we did not betray ourselves, there are only two
persons in the world who could detect the im­
posture, Cleveland and De Fronsac. The first
is too generous to betray anybody, even if he
had the opportunity; and the other exclusively
divides his time between Paris and his own
abominable country residence; while I should
confine myself to our chateau at Veret, which
he is as little likely to visit as N6tre Dame when
high mass is being performed. Even if he
should accept one of my husband’s invitations—
a thing he has never done yet— I should have
previous notice of his visit, and could send An­
tonia out of the way until he had left us.
No doubt you will be surprised to find me
proposing a scheme of fraud and imposture,
which involves the constant necessity of decep­
tion and dissimulation. I feel that my plan
Digitized by Google
184 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
deserves all these names; yet thus much will I
say in my apology,— it harms no single human
being, either directly or indirectly; while, on
the other hand, it rescues a lovely and amiable
girl from the dangers to which beauty and
poverty are naturally exposed, and restores a
beloved daughter to the aching bosom of her
mother. All the effects are not only harmless,
but highly beneficial; still I am conscious that
the general consequences of deception and
trickery are bad; and that a pure and upright
mind revolts from all imposture, no matter what
shape it takes, or by what excuses it is defended.
How wretched is the necessity which drives me
to an expedient so repugnant to my natural
disposition. Yet the gratification of my maternal
feelings has now become a necessity. Ever
since I saw her, I have allowed myself to dwell
upon her image— to clasp her in imaginary em-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 185
braces— to picture to my mind the delight of
daily seeing her, of living with her, hearing her,
and interchanging my thoughts and feelings
with her; until exasperated with the illusive
excitement, my desire to regain my child has
become so violent, as to deprive me of all
repose, and incapacitate me for all occupation.
It haunts and pervades me like a feverish thirst,
which I cannot slake. If I may not have my
daughter’s society— if this first and most natural
right and pleasure is denied, my existence is
unendurable. I feel that death or gratification
are my only alternatives !”
Digitized by Google
186 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
CH APTER X X III.
AMATORY REFRIGERATION.
The saddest lesson which experience teaches
man, is a knowledge of the true nature of love.
It is in vain that the whole course of tale and
history assures us of the evanescent, transitory
character of this passion— it is in vain that our
own observation confirms the truth, and shows
us that the sensation is as brief as it is delight­
ful. What man, in love for the first time,
could ever be induced to believe, that the deli­
cious sentiment, which absorbs or excludes
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 187
every other feeling of his bosom, must sooner
or later die a natural death, and be extinguished
in its own gratification ? True, it may be suc­
ceeded by a tender and affectionate attachment,
by firm and lasting friendship; but the glory
— the enthusiasm— the celestial exaltation of
true passion, when it first overcomes us, must
pass away. How ridiculous, then, to abuse men
for their want of constancy. Could we com­
mand our affections, who would cease to love ?
who would throw away the treasure which con­
stitutes his happiness, and which he values more
than all the riches of the world ? It is in spite
of ourselves— in spite of our utmost efforts to
recall our first enthusiasm, that we gradually
begin to view the once loved face with indiffer­
ence, and to feel that her society has no longer
a spell for our disenchanted minds. To love is
to be blest, and who, that found himselfin Eden,
Digitized by Google
188 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
would voluntarily leave it? It is customary to
talk, as if the inconstant man made a selfish
gain by his change of sentiment; but what can
he profit by the decay of the sweetest sentiment
of our nature? As well rail at the capitalist,
because he gets rid of his depreciated secu­
rities. A las! it is with a heavy heart that
he parts with bonds, once the representatives of
thousands, for a fraction of their original value.
But it is with a far profounder sentiment of
despair, that the man of reflection perceives
his warmest and most cherished feelings will
not abide the withering touch of time and cus­
tom ; and that the love he fondly deemed eter­
nal, has hardly the durability of an Autumn
flower.
It is the law of our nature that all passive
impressions shall become weaker by repetition,
and in process of time be entirely effaced. The
Digitized by Google
OR, t h e c h a r l a t a n . 1 8 9
effectwhichabeautiful woman producesonaman’s
mind, shares the general fate of all involuntary
emotions; and the latter can no more prevent
the flight of his love, than he can the departure
of his youth, health, strength, or any other
blessing. Cleveland’s passion had not yet
reached that fated period; still it cannot be
denied that the intensity of his attachment had
begun to diminish. His mind was no longer
absorbed by the single idea of love. He could
think and speak to Antonia of other things than
his passion; nay, he could even read a book in
her presence without much distraction. It was
with deep dismay that Antonia perceived these
symptoms of subsiding passion. Her own feel­
ings remained in all their original force; and
it seemed unnatural and cruel in him not to
return them. She had no fears that he would
desert her, in the vulgar sense of the term; but
Digitized by Google
190 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO!
she dreaded the time might soon arrive when
Cleveland would continue the connexion rather
from a sense of honour and generosity than
from love. In this frame of mind, she was dis­
posed to consider the overtures and remon­
strances with which her diamond-giving visitor
still pursued her, with more attention than she
had hitherto bestowed on them. He had not
sought to renew his personal acquaintance with
her; he had refrained from all attempts to gain
a second interview. He seemed to content
himself with forcing a copious correspondence
on her attention. Some of the letters contained
matter relative to herself of such an extraor­
dinary nature, that natural curiosity compelled
her to read the epistles. The main object of
the writer appeared to be to induce her to leave
Cleveland; and to live under the protection of
a lady of high rank, whom he asserted to be
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 191
her mother. To the truth and justice of some
of the arguments, by which he enforced his
solicitations, Antonia could not refuse her assent.
Her unknown correspondent confesses to her in
these letters, that the story he had related to her
on the occasion of their personal interview was
a mere fabrication. He thus justifies the deceit:
4
4The real events of your history are so wild
and extraordinary, that I knew you would at
once reject them, as incredible. I was there­
fore obliged to prepare your mind by a fiction,
before I could hazard the revelation of actual
facts. 1 was forced to gain credit for impro­
bable truths, by a prefatory string of plausible
falsehoods. Yes, it is true that you are the
daughter of a woman of rank, now moving in
the highest society of Paris — celebrated in
those brilliant circles for her wit and beauty,
but not less distinguished for the amiable quali-
Digitized by Google
192 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
ties of her disposition. It is equally true, that
this lady, who possesses no children by marriage,
is aware of your existence. It is not less true
that she takes the liveliest interest in your wel­
fare, and that she is willing to run any risk, and
encounter any danger, in order to enjoy the
pleasure of unrestrained intercourse with you.
The objection, therefore, which you urged
against your return to your relations, loses its
weight The lady, who I hope will be your
future protectress, will not be likely to blame
you for the misfortunes which sprung from her
own neglect She proposes that you should
live with her at her country ch&teau, in the
character of niece. If you will consent to this,
I will make such an arrangement as will preclude
all danger of discovery. In fact, from whom
have you to dread detection but the Duke de
Fronsac ? Now, as long as you remain unmar-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 193
ried, it is not necessary that you should mingle
in Parisian society, the only place where you
are likely to meet with De Fronsac. I will
give you proofs of the truth of my present
story, that will banish every suspicion from
your mind; I will reveal to you the name of
this lady. She goes frequently to the Italian
Opera. Get Cleveland to point her out to you;
he knows her well. You shall have an interview
with her. The only real obstacle which exists
to this plan, is your infatuated attachment for
that Englishman. Now, granting all that you
can assert respecting the sincerity and strength
of his passion, how long can you hope to retain
his affection? He is the most fastidious dis­
contented mortal that I ever encountered. He
is already tired of every thing. He professes
himself indifferent to those prizes which are
objects of the fiercest dispute to common men.
VOL. II. K
Digitized by Google
194 .COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
He has grown weary of pleasure, riches, ad­
miration, power, even of life itself. And yet
you are weak enough to fancy that this strange
freak of affection, which, for want of other
idleness, he now indulges towards you, will be
lasting, will be eternal. Can you for a moment
allow yourself to believe, that this man, so
easily affected with disgust and satiety, who
before he is thirty has found time to grow sick
of every thing in life, should change his nature
when he approaches you, and prove a miracle
of uniform constancy ? When he ceases to love
you—and it is wonderful, considering his cha­
racter, that his passion has lasted so long— what
will be your position? I do not allude to
pecuniary distress. Cleveland is rich, gene­
rous; and I dare say would never allow one,
who had been even the temporary object of his
affections, to lack support. He will give you
Digitized by Google
Oft, THE CHARLATAN* 195
money; I doubt it not: but will this be suffi­
cient ? Will he give you, as now, his time and
society? To whom will you then turn for
consolation and sympathy ? In your present
situation, you forfeit the deference and respect
of our sex, and the good-will and kindness of
your own. Society is at war with you; and
will never grant you peace, or allow you to
rest. No matter what may be the absolute
guilt or innocence of your present connexion;
it violates the world’s law, and is therefore in
the eyes of the world the greatest of crimes.
If you would live happily with your fellow-
creatures, you must conform to their rules and
customs— or prejudices and absurdities, if you
will. The boldest and cleverest of men never
opposed society single-handed with success;
for a woman to brave the conflict, is, indeed,
madness.
k 2
Digitized by Google
196 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ I offer you a new career— oblivion for the
past, and a prospect of passing your future life
among that class of society, for which you are
so well fitted both by nature and education.
Can you reject this proposal ? In spite of the
warmth and liveliness of your feelings, I know
that you sometimes reflect; that you sometimes
calmly consider what is best for your own and
others’ happiness. Think deliberately on what
I have urged— on what I offer. You must
ultimately accede to my overtures. It is not in
human nature to refuse such manifest advan­
tages.
“ But say that my opinions respecting the
transitory nature of love are exaggerated— are
absolutely false— or grant that your lover is an
exception to the universal rule. Think, as a
thousand infatuated girls before you have dared
to think, that for you man’s nature is reversed.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 197
Dream, if you will, that a heart, more uncer­
tain than the winds, and more unstable than
the waves, has for you become fixed and con­
stant. Is love alone, and by itself, a sufficient
compensation for the loss of every other comfort
and pleasure in life ? Have you no other senti­
ments, passions, wants and feelings, to be gra­
tified, but this one ? Alas! love is but one out
of a host as numerous as that of Xerxes. Exist­
ence is composed of a thousand petty amuse­
ments— a thousand trivial occupations— a thou­
sand small duties. At any one of these taken
by itself you may individually smile; but on the
aggregate depends your happiness. Love is
the wine of life; we prize the racy intoxicating
beverage far beyond the simple food which
supports existence: but ask yourself in sober
calmness, which is the most important ?— with
which can you easiest dispense? Reflect on
Digitized by Google
198 COUNT CAQLIOSTRO:
the position in which you are now placed—view
it on every side— examine it in every light.
Look beneath the surface— extend your glance
beyond the present. Be not dazzled with the
sunshine that now streams from your lovers
eyes; for the night cometh, and quickly— the
long dark night of infamy and miseiy. You
are wholly and solely dependent, as no human
being should be, on the caprice of a single indi­
vidual, and if he fails you— ay, the thought is
fearful— you have but one plank between you
and the abyss: that lost, you sink deeper than
plummet ever sounded. You have but one star
to guide you : that quenched, what shall direct
your course ? You have but one source of joy,
hope, pleasure, respectability, amusement, good­
ness : and that dried up, whence shall the daily
current of your being flow V • * *
s s * * * «
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 199
Such were the forcible and energetic com­
munications which were constantly forwarded
to Antonia from her unknown correspondent.
It is not to be supposed that they were perused
without effect. The perpetual repetition of
opinions, even when they are opposed to our
own, at last makes a considerable impression on
our mind; and sometimes we concede to reitera­
tion and importunity, what we would not have
yielded to reason. But the sentiments expressed
in the preceding extracts corresponded only too
well with the fears and doubts that were fer­
menting at the bottom of Antonia’s heart. She
viewed every art and gesture of Cleveland with
microscopic eyes. There was in truth a slight
alteration in his manner. The first efferves­
cence of his passion had subsided; and his de­
meanour and his spirits had become more equa­
ble. This comparative composure of manner
Digitized by Google
200 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO 2
was magnified by Antonia into downright in­
difference. Mere trifles—molehills invisible to
the sight of common people, became mountains
to the jealous glance of love. At these times,
the letters of the unknown correspondent were
sometimes recurred to as a sad consolation.
They were perused and reperused with in­
creasing attention. However bitter was the
idea of separation from Cleveland, she was now
fully convinced of the possibility of such an
occurrence. The overtures contained in the
letters at all events presented an alternative.
By degrees she conceived the thought of answer­
ing these strange communications. The idea
soon grew familiar to her mind; it no longer
terrified her; and at last she put it into execu­
tion. She entreated to know the name of the
lady who had been alluded to as her mother.
After a time it was communicated, but accom*
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 201
panied with the most fearful and terrible in­
junctions of secrecy. She was farther informed
that the Marchioness de Montolieu would be
present in her customary box at the Italian
Opera on a particular night.
Cleveland was intently examining a portfolio
of fine engravings, to which he had been making
someadditions. Antonia was ostensibly engaged
with the same amusement, but alas! her eyes
were oftener fastened on her lover’s countenance
than on the prints beneath. “ Oh that I could
look under that fair brow,” thought she, “ and
see what is passing in the busy brain within.”
“ Have you no criticism to make, Antonia,
on the new engravings which I have brought
you V said Cleveland, without looking up.
Antonia repressed the exclamation that rose
to her lips. She forbore to tell him that she
htul been too much occupied with gazing on
x 3
Digitized by Google
202 COUNT CAGLIOSTEO :
him, to notice the additions to the portfolio.
Her exquisite tact enabled her to see that the
moment was unseasonable; and that a display
of tenderness, which he might be unable to
return, would only embarrass and distress her
lover.
“ I am musically inclined to-night,” said
Antonia; “ let us go to the Italian Opera.”
“ Are you serious, dearest ?” said Cleveland.
“ Is there anything extraordinary in my
wish ?” asked Antonia.
“ Oh ! nothing,” replied Cleveland; “ only
you yourself requested me to procure these
engravings, and now I have brought them, you
will not turn your eyes on them.”
“ Be it so,” said Antonia; “ are men to
monopolize the pleasures of fickleness ?”
“ By no means,” said Cleveland, smiling,
“ you shall have your share of the pleasure, if
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 203
you call an infirmity by that name. You shall
be as fickle as you like, and you shall go to the
opera if you like.”
In a short time they were seated in a box at
the opera. Antonia’s first care was to find out
the Marchioness de Montolieu. She saw a
lady, still in the prime of life and beauty, sitting
in the box which had been designated to her
beforehand, as the seat which the Marchioness
would choose on the night in question. A
thrill of agitation pervaded Antonia’s frame.
Could that fair being, so young— so bright, be
her mother ? The ideas of age and maternity
were indissolubly connected in her mind; she
knew not why. She wished to be sure that
she was not mistaken, and turning to Cleveland,
she asked him, if he knew the name of the
lady sitting in the opposite box.
MThe Marchioness de Montolieu,” returned
Digitized byGoogle
204 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Cleveland; “ and now you put me in mind of
an observation, which struck me the other day
in her company, that you resembled her so
strongly in voice, feature, and manner, that you
must somehow or other be related/’
Antonia’s heart beat with a variety of emo­
tions. “ Are you intimately acquainted with
her?” asked she.
“ I have only lately been introduced to her,
but I have every possible inclination to improve
our friendship.”
“ Why ?” asked Antonia faintly.
“ Oh ! I hardly know why— because she is
very agreable and very handsome— because she
is so like you, dearest, both in body and mind.”
Antonia’s countenance brightened— so great
a luxury is the simplest, idlest compliment from
the lips we love. She would never leave him,
no— not to be recognized as the daughter of
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 205
the first noble in the land. She could not how*
ever help gazing on the Marchioness. Her
countenance seemed melancholy and absorbed.
She paid but little attention to the conversation
of the gentleman who was the fellow-occupant
of the box, and still less to the performance on
the stage. Her thoughts seemed far away.
Could it be, that she was pining for the unnatu­
ral daughter, who had just resolved never to
seek her protection, or meet her affection? And
then she looked on Cleveland. Lover and
mother! why would not fate allow her to enjoy
them both? Must fortune never come with
both hands full ?
Digitized byGoogle
206 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
C H APTER X X IV .
A SEPARATION, WITH STRANGE REA80NS FOR IT.
As l o n g as we love, says Rochefoucault, we
pardon. What a deep knowledge of human
nature is evinced in this little aphorism ! We
overlook all faults in those we love— we dote
upon their very imperfections and frailties, and
view them as the breaks and chasms in a land­
scape-defects perhapsinthemselves, but increas­
ing the beauty of the whole. No ill-usage
disgusts us. We receive their bad treatment,
Digitized by
Oft, THE CHARLATAN. £07
as a devotee resigns himself to the misfortunes
which he believes to be the chastenings of his
Deity. We make a merit in suffering for them.
We experience an actual pleasure in our pain,
when their hand inflicts the wound. In pro­
portion as Antonia perceived Cleveland’s love
to decline, the stronger grew her own passion.
And yet in spite of this infatuation, she had
already determined to part from him for ever.
Day after day, she watched his manners grow
colder— his looks become less fond, and his
voice less soft and mellifluous; yet to do him
justice, she confessed that his behaviour never
changed. He was as anxious as'ever to supply
her with pleasure and amusement. His libe­
rality was as unbounded as at first. But what
availed these acts of kindness ? The symptoms
of declining love were not to be mistaken by a
person of Antonia’s penetration. She saw too
Digitized byGoogle
208 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
clearly, that they foreboded the ultimate ex-
tinction of his attachment. The thought was
agony, yet how could she arrest what appeared
the natural progress of things? How could
she prevent the fatal period, when he would
cease to love her, from arriving. She had but
one resource; there was but one means of
avoiding this detested moment. It was to part
from him now— at the present time, while the
last remains of attachment were still alive in
his bosom.
" You will have to dine by yourself, to*day,
Antonia,” said Cleveland one morning, as he
had just finished his preparations for going out.
“ I shall be particularly engaged till night.
Adieu.”
“ Adieu,” replied Antonia, but what a diffe­
rence between the two ‘ adieux.1 The first
came trippingly off the speaker’s tongue, in the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 209
careless placid tone, in which we bid a friend
good-bye, whom we expect to meet again in a
few days, or perhaps hours; and whose absence
we could bear with equanimity for a much
longer period. The second was uttered in a
tone of deep emotion. There was a seriousness
and solemnity in the sound, which did not
belong to common parlance. There was also
a slight tremulousness in the voice, as if the
speaker could hardly pronounce the word, and
with difficulty suppressed the agitated feelings
that were struggling to escape from her full
bosom. Cleveland was so struck with the ex­
pression which she gave to this ordinary and
yet affecting form of speech, that he closed the
half-opened door of the apartment, and turning
round, looked at her in some surprise. Anto­
nia returned the glance with a far more intense
gaze. At length, apparently unable to stifle
Digitized byGoogle
210 COUNT CAGLIOSTEO :
her contending emotions, she darted forwards,
and flinging her arms round his neck, burst
into a passionate flood of tears.
Cleveland was embarrassed, not to say an­
noyed, by this strange display of tenderness
and passion. He did not like to treat such
warmth of feeling with cold indifference; yet
he felt himself unable either to understand, or
to reciprocate its fervour. He was moreover
pained to observe such a strong proof of inter*
nal sorrow and secret uneasiness. He felt, in
short, like the cool and placid Hume, when the
frantic enthusiast Jean Jacques Rousseau, from
some reaction of feeling towards the former
gentleman, suddenly fell upon his neck and
wept : ‘ Gently, gently, my dear sir,9said Hume,
patting the other on the back. This was all
that the astonished philosopher could do towards
800thing the passionate old child of fifty years.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 211
Equally ineffective consolation was adminis­
tered to Antonia by Cleveland— he pressed
her to his bosom— begged her to be calm —
wondered what could have happened to distress
her in this extraordinary manner— was sure she
was ill— begged her to have advice* &c. &c.—
Antonia wept on in an uncontrollable passion
of grief. Cleveland grew tired and vexed at
the continuance of the scene, ancfat last made
a gesture of weariness— perhaps of impatience.
Antonia instantly withdrew herself from his
arms, but apparently more in sorrow than in
anger.
“ If you know how much pain,” said Cleve­
land, “ this unevenness of temper causes me, I
am certain you would not yield to your feelings
in this manner.*’
u Forgive me*” said Antonia.
“ Forgive you! Nay I must be the person
Digitized byGoogle
212 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO *
.
who has offended— and yet I am not conscious
of having disobliged you.”
“ Alas! you cannot offend me; though you
may occasion me much pain; but say that
you forgive me this weakness, and that we part
friends,” said Antonia.
“ Considering the shortness of the period
during which we shall be separated,” replied
Cleveland, smiling, “ I should have thought
it hardly necessary to take such a solemn and
formal farewell; but I am willing to humour
your weakness, though perhaps it would be
more friendly to deny you. I cannot forgive
you, because I was never offended, but only
grieved to see your spirits so uneven. We cer­
tainly however part friends, and something more
than friends; I trust and hope we shall meet
again in a gayer and happier mood.”
Antonia was silent. The tears still stood in
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN* 213
her eyes. Cleveland approached her, and
gently kissed them away. She remained mute
and passive under his caresses— and so they
parted.
On his return home Cleveland found that
Antonia had gone out, and was not yet returned.
As the hour was late he was a good deal sur­
prized, and a little alarmed. On making
enquiries, he was informed that she had left
home about two hours after himself, and that
she had spent the interval in writing.
“ Did she not leave word when she would
return ?” demanded Cleveland of the old
woman, whom we have before mentioned.
“ No, sir, but she cried very much as she got
into her fiacre. *Your trunks, miss,’ said I,
‘ are quite safe----- ’ ”
“ Trunks!” exclaimed Cleveland, stamping
furiously. “ Did she take anything away with
her?”
Digitized by Google
214 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Oh Lord, sir !” cried the old woman,
“ I’m sure I thought she had got your leave, or
I should not have permitted her.”
Cleveland struck his forehead in anguish and
despair.
“ The gentleman who was with her seemed
very kind,” sagaciously observed the old woman,
who in her frightened stupidity kept talking on,
in hopes that she should at last say something
to please.
“ She must be deceived— trepanned,” cried
Cleveland. " I will instantly go to the police.
(The idea of infidelity never struck his mind.)
But stop—you say she wrote something. Where
is it ?— In her room perhaps. I will go and
s e e a n d he rushed with the energy of a mad­
man into the apartment where Antonia had
slept. The first object that met his eyes was a
letter on the toilette table directed to himself
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 215
and in her handwriting. He tore it open and
read it through, without moving from the spot, or
changing the position in which he stood. The
following were the contents:—
“ I dote on you— I adore you. Your beloved
image seems to pervade my whole existence.
I dream of you all night— I think of you all
day. My heart— my soul— my brain— nay,
every nerve and fibre of my frame is in­
stinct with love for you. I could worship the
very ground you tread upon. I could shed my
heart’s blood— I could drain the pulses that
throb so wildly for you, drop by drop, to give
you an hour’s pleasure— to save you an hour’s
pain. All other passions, thoughts, emotions and
sentiments, are swallowed up in this one master­
feeling. I love you beyond all measure or
limit— I love you fondly— impiously— L love
Digitized by Google
216 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO: '
you to distraction,— and therefore I leave yoir
for ever.
Hear me, dearest Cleveland; I could bear
to see you— Cleveland— my all of love, hope,
and happiness— stretched in death at my
feet Yes, I could bear to see the face and
form, now so pregnant with grace, strength,
and beauty— reft of its divine spark, and lying
an unconscious and pulseless corse before me.
I could behold this sight and survive, because
the recollection of your love would enable me
to endure life. But to perceive that glorious
and ineffable passion— which once shone around
and about me, like the meridian sun, filling all
life with such radiance, that my senses ached
with excess of light— dwindle into a common
vulgar sentiment—a mere household attachment
— the result of habit and convenience; and
perhaps to feel it shrink to something less than
this ;— to view the last rays of waning passion
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 217
depart from me with the slow but sure motion
of the dial’s hour hand; I, gazing on them the
while, like a shipwrecked mariner watching the
sun go down, which will cut off all chance of
escape or succour— nerveless, hopeless, helpless,
powerless. No, no, rather let me die a thou­
sand deaths than undergo such intolerable and
protracted tortures. Yet too surely I feel that
this will be the result if we live together much
longer. Day by day—hour by hour— minute by
minute— your love is decaying. Its fashion and
form are the same now as at first; but soul, life
and energy, are ebbingfast. You are unconscious
perhaps of the change, or you perceive it, and
battle against the natural progress of your
feelings with your utmost efforts. In vain; these
painful struggles, these useless wrestlings with
your own nature, will but accelerate the fatal
period. Let us part then, my beloved— let us
VOL. II. l
Digitized by Google
218 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO :
part while we still love— ere life is infected by
the poisonous truth, that our passion, like every
other hope and pleasure, is vanity and delusion
of spirit. Leave the feast while the immortal
nectar of enjoyment, still glows upon our lips;
do not wait to drain the dregs of satiety and
indifference—rather dash the goblet, precious
though it be, into a thousand pieces.
“ Do not mourn for me; I am content with
my fate. The Calendar says that we have
passed but a few brief months together; but
to me the time seems like a succession of happy
ages, so lengthened out istheperiod by the count­
less sensations that are crowded into it. Yes,
I have lived an eternity of bliss; and its memo­
ries, which are worth ~
rall other pleasures,
will accompany me to the last moments of my
existence. They are sufficient for felicity; I
am content; I am happy. Entertain no anxiety
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 219
for my future fate. What the world would call
my true interests, are advanced and strength
ened by the step I have taken. I shall gain
in respectability, and station in society, some­
thing of what I lose in peace and happiness.
Should I be deceived in these expectations, I
shall be but little affected. Henceforward good
or bad fortune is the same to me. I can feel
neither joy nor sorrow after losing you. For-*
give me that I parted at once, without apprizing
you of my intention. I examined my resolution
and found it unequal to the task. The sudden
and sharp separation, which cleaves the bosom
like an axe, is woe enough to bear. To have
my heartstrings slowly drawn asunder, by the
protracted agonies of a formal parting, is
more than I could endure.
“ I have still a thousand feelings to explain—
a thousand wishes to unfold; and this letter
l 2
Digitized by Google
220 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
may perhaps be the last I shall ever write to
you. But my brain is confused and weak. I
am unable to avail myself of the opportunity.
The multiplicity of my eager thoughts over­
whelms my understanding. My eyes are misty
— hardly can I trace the incoherent words I
write. Farewell— I can say no more. Your
own heart will tell you how much is felt, wished,
and conveyed, in that simple word. Farewell,
my beloved— my adored Cleveland. Farewell
— farewell!
“ A ntonia.”
For some minutes after he had perused the
letter, Cleveland stood in a sort of stupified
dismay. Was he dreaming ?— did he read the
letter aright ?— Gone !— and for ever. This
was a blow he had not anticipated. Perhaps she
would return. With a beating heart he again
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. ' 221
read her farewell epistle. No— no— there was
no hope— she had left him in right good ear­
nest, and for ever. Her resolution was the
result of his own conduct: there was no one he
could blame— no one on whom he could vent
his fury— no one who could afford him the
slightest assistance, sympathy, or consolation.
He threw himself on a chair, and wept like a
child in utter weakness. To know the worth
of a thing, we must lose it
“For it so falls out,
That what we have, we prize not to the worth;
But being lacked and lost, why then we rack
The value.”
It seemed to Cleveland as if he had for the
first time become sensible of Antonia’s charms
and virtues— as if he had for the first time
become aware of the desperate and absorbing
nature of his passion for her. Compared with
Digitized by Google
222 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
the intensity of his present emotions, he cer­
tainly had never felt love before. Then came
the overwhelming flood of regrets and self-
reproaches, which we all feel too late, when we
lose the friend whose kindness we have abused.
Was it possible he had been living months in
her society, and deemed the privilege of so
little value ? Madman !— idiot! Now he
would sacrifice his whole fortune— his health—
his life— to redeem five minutes of those wasted
and ill-appreciated hours of bliss. In the stupid
wantonness of security and content, he had
trampled on the boon that made his happiness;
and fate had deservedly wrenched away the
blessing. Oh that be could see her once more—
only once more— though it were to bid her an
eternal adieu. It was denied him. His head
grew dizzy. His senses for a moment deserted
him— he became delirious with agony— he
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 22$
shouted aloud Antonia’s name, as if expecting
her to answer. He called first with frantic
eagerness— then in a soft imploring tone. The
loved and familiar voice responded not to his
cry— the well-known face of beauty came not
forth to meet him. Cleveland gazed slowly
and fearfully round the solitary room, and felt
that he was alone— alone— alone.
Digitized by Google
2 2 4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
CH APTER X X V .
MUST TRUTH ALWAYS BE TOLD ?
W e must change our scene to the Chateau o f
Veret, the country residence of the Marquis de
Montolieu.
“ I hardly understand the story yet,” ex­
claimed the Marquis, yawning.
“ I will explain it to you for the twentieth
time,” said the Marchioness, with an air of
gaiety, which an acute observer would perceived
was forced. “ My sister, who went young into
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 225
Germany, there married a certain Baron von
Oberfeldt, thebrotherof the Baron Swarzenheim,
who is coming to visit you. By this nobleman
she had an only daughter. Both died young.
Their daughter was consigned to the care of a
cousin, he being the nearest relation, residing
in Austria; for her paternal uncle, Baron
Swarzenheim, was then abroad. When the
latter returned, he demanded the guardianship
of his niece. Under his care she continued
for some years. At length, being appointed to
a distant embassy, he is compelled to relinquish
the charge. He has implored me to supply his
place for a year or two, and to allow my niece
to remain during that time in our ch&teau.”
“ How odd that your sister should have
married a German.”
“ Not more singular than my marrying you,
who are a Frenchman.”
l 3
Digitized by Google
226 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
“ What’s the reason,” inquired the Marquis,
“ that this branch of your family have never let
us know of their existence until the present
moment ?”
“ My sister s marriage was against the con­
sent of her family. Her husband, in pique,
no doubt, forbid her to hold any correspondence
with her relatives; and when he died, she did
not long survive him.”
“ Humph ! I predict, Marchioness, that you
will find this girl an intolerable bore.”
“ Entertain no anxiety on that ground, my
dear,” said the Marchioness.
" W ell! but perhaps / shall; which would
be a still more calamitous event.”
“ I will engage that you shall never be trou­
bled with her.”
“ I suppose, by the Baron not asking you to
introduce her at Paris, that your intended pro-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 227
tegge is a juvenile gorgon. High cheek-bones;
red hair; complexion speckled, like a guinea-
fowl’s egg; and the ancle of a Flanders’ mare.
Too bad,— when you know how I detest looking
at an ugly face.” And the Marquis gazed in
an adjacent pier glass, and arranged the curls
of his peruke.
At this moment a lacquey entered, and in­
formed the Marquis and Marchioness, that the
Baron Swarzenheim and his niece had arrived
at the chateau, and were ready to wait on them.
“ Show them in immediately,” cried the
Marchioness.
A tall, stately gentleman, attired in a fashion­
able travelling dress, accompanied by a young
lady of exquisite beauty, who was leaning on
his arm, were ushered into the room.
The Marquis glanced first at the male visitor,
and then at his companion. At the sight of so
Digitized by Google
228 COUNT CAGUOSTRO :
much loveliness his countenance cleared up.
He rose, and advanced to meet the Baron, with
all the politeness of a pleased Frenchman.
“ I have the honour, I believe,’' said the
Marquis, “ of addressing the Baron Swarzen-
heim.”
“ The same, at your service,” answered the
Baron. “ I am afraid I am committing a breach
of politeness, in thus introducing myself. No
doubt the rules of society require that I should
have waited until I could have found a mutual
friend, but anxiety for my niece’s interests in­
duced me to take a step, which I fear you may
view as an intrusion.”
“ Do not mention such a thing,” cried the
Marquis, looking at the niece. “ I am delighted
to have the honour of your acquaintance.----
Allow me to introduce you to the Marchioness.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 229
But,” added he, “ if what some folks say about
the force of nature be true, I need not present
your companion to her.”
“ I will begin our acquaintance with this
embrace,” said the Marchioness, clasping her
fair visitor in her arms with such energy, that
the Marquis's attention was attracted; and he
looked at the young lady with an admiring eye,
as if he should have liked to have followed his
wife’s example.
“ What an extraordinary resemblance your
niece bears to you, Marchioness,” cried the
Marquis, still contemplating the young German;
“ and to you also, Monsieur le Baron. I can
distinctly trace the lineaments of both counte­
nances, softened and harmonized into beauty, in
that lovely face. Parbleu ! if I did not know
her to be your niece, I should have taken her
to be your daughter.”
Digitized by Google
230 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
The Marchioness abruptly walked to a
window.
“ When you consider, Monsieur le Marquis,
that this young lady is the daughter of my
brother, and the Marchioness’s sister, the family
likeness is explained, and your surprise will
vanish.”
“ Nay,” replied the Marquis, “ you need
not discuss the matter. I certainly did not
suspect Mademoiselle to be the daughter of two
persons who have never seen each other before
to-day.” And the Marquis laughed, and took
snuff, at what he considered a good joke.
“ You, yourself, Monsieur,” observed the
Baron, “ exhibit in your face and figure all the
characteristics of the race of Montolieu. I have
seen the portraits of some of your renowned
and warlike progenitors in our old Hungarian
castles.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 281
The Marchioness returned to the group.
“ The ancestral hook in my nose, eh ? Well,
I have been told the same thing before. I
really believe, myself, that I am like Raymond
de Vaudricour, the fifth lord of Montolieu.
My dear Baron, the Marchioness and myself
will have the greatest possible pleasure in re­
ceiving your niece into our family during the
whole period of your embassy.”
“ Thanks, thanks; you have taken a load off
my mind,” said the Baron.
“ In fact,” continued the Marquis, “ we
were both anticipating the pleasure with which
we should mutually act the part of parents to
our charming niece, when your arrival was
announced. Were we not, Marchioness?”
“ I can safely answer, for myself, in the affir­
mative.”
“ I had a prophetic conviction,” pursued the
Digitized by Google
232 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Marquis, Mthat the Marchioness’s niece would
prove a beauty. Had I not, my dear ?” added
he, turning to the Marchioness, who reluctantly
confirmed the falsehood.
“ But what distresses me,” continued the
Marquis, “ is, that your niece should ‘ waste
her sweetness’ in the rustic solitude of this our
Chateau de Veret. Allow us to take her to
Paris V
“ Excuse me, my dear Marquis; but I could
not perform my diplomatic mission in peace
and tranquillity, four hundred leagues from
this spot, if I thought my niece were exposed
the while to the corruption and contamination
of Paris,” replied the Baron.
“ You are bound to Constantinople, are you
not T 9 inquired the Marchioness.
“ My destination is changed. I am now
despatched to St. Petersburgh.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 233
“ Capital!” cried Montolieu. w My dear
Baron, your court could not have chosen a
more acceptable ambassador to the chaste
Catherine. You cannot fail to be on good
terms with the Czarina. You are six feet high
— broad shouldered— strong limbed— and have
a glance of fire.'’
“ I should think,” answered the Baron,
“ that every comer and nook of the Czarina's
heart was fully occupied.”
“ Ay, but variety you know— besides, my
dear Baron, if you will allow me to say so, you
are very like the celebrated Count Cagliostro,
who, as report says, was one of the Empress's
lovers under the rose. I once saw him at
Paris.— But you are not offended at the com­
parison ?” continued the Marquis, observing
the Baron's face to change' colour. The
resemblance I alluded to, of course, only ex­
tends to the person.”
Digitized by Google
2S4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
4
4Nay,” returned the Baron; 4
4I care not
how far you conceive the similitude to extend.
Cagliostro is certainly as clever, and, in all pro­
bability, quite as respectable, as any of Cathe­
rine’s other lovers. That he is a charlatan,
instead of a minister, is the caprice of fortune.”
4
4Ay— ay,” said the Marquis; 4
4that is look­
ing at the matter like a philosopher. After all,
the two characters are not so different. If
every charlatan is not a minister, most ministers
are at least charlatans.”
4
4H a ! ha!” laughed the Baron, in great
good humour.
4
4By the by, did you ever hear the curious
story they whisper of our present ambassador to
Catherine ? I’ll tell it you when Madame my
wife has left the room.”
4
4A thousand thanks for your forbearance,”
said the Marchioness.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 285
(( Well,” continued the Marquis, *“ if Ca­
therine makes love like a grenadier, at least
she rewards like a sovereign.9
*
“ As you seem bent on continuing this edify­
ing conversation, you must allow me to remark,
that little would be gained by protecting our
niece from the corruption of the metropolis, if
she is compelled to hear such discussions in the
country. You must excuse me if I withdraw
with her for the present.” With these words
the Marchioness, taking her young guest’s arm,
made a rapid retreat, and left the gentlemen to
continue a conversation, which now became too
broad for transcription into our chaste pages.
The Baron did not stay long at the Chateau
de Veret. After a sojourn of two days, during
which period he had entirely acquired the good
graces of the Marquis, he took a tender adieu
of his niece, and set off for Vienna, with the
Digitized by Google
286 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
intention of proceeding thence to S t Peters-
burgh.
The Marquis's admiration for the new inmate
of his chateau did not diminish on farther ac­
quaintance. On the contrary, he was never
tired of extolling her wit, sense, beauty, and
accomplishments. He was in a good humour
with everybody and everything, and seemed
delighted with his wife for having such charming
relatives. An unexpected incident, however,
called him to Paris. He received intelligence
that the Duke's mistress had eloped from him
some months ago; and that her lover, far from
being able to decoy her back by presents or
promises, had not even succeeded in discovering
her retreat. Still he was reluctant to leave
Veret. The beauty and wit of his new visitor
detained him by a soft and imperceptible at­
traction ; but subsequent reflections determined
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 237
him to break the spell, by a vigorous effort,
and to remove himself from the sphere of its
influence. It is true, he was a good deal in
love with his wife’s niece; but the seduction of
so intimate a connexion was a step beyond
the limits he had prescribed to his license.
If, indeed, she were once married to some
Parisian nobleman, and established according
to her rank, there would be no objection to his
forming a liason with her in the character of
a married woman. Such were the morals of
French society before the revolution.
“ I must wait till she is married,” thought he,
with a sentiment of moral resignation. “ Till
that event takes place, I must curb my desires:
so I had better not expose myself to temptation
by remaining here.” Besides this quasi-virtu-
ous thought, there was his bet with De Fronsac
to look after: a thousand louis was a serious
Digitized by Google
238 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO I
sum; and then there was the pleasure and tri­
umph of announcing his success in the af&ir to
all his boon companions: and more than this,
there was La Gabrielle waiting to receive him
with the sincerest sympathy and exultation at
the victorious result. All these considerations
induced him, in spite of the charms which he
felt in Antonia's company, to leave the Chateau
about a week after the Baron, and to set off to
Paris.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 2 3 9
CH APTE R X X V I.
THE FATAL INVITATION.
“ So this wonderful beauty of yours, De Fronsac,
has at last fairly given you the slip”— said
Count D’Ostalis to the Duke. “ Upon my soul,
it serves you right— eternally insulting your
friends with descriptions of the celestial charms,
which you would never permit their modest
longing eyes to view. Her faithlessness is
certainly a judgment on you, for the wanton
insolence, with which you treated your less
fortunate companions.”
Digitized by Google
240 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ How did you learn the news ?” said the Duke.
“ O h ! the whole set of us are acquainted
with the flight. The only wonder is, that we did
not discover the secret before. Why she
eloped six months ago; De Montolieu will
certainly come upon you for his thousand
louis.”
“ Let him come when he will,” replied the
Duke, 66 he shall be paid— that is not the worst
sting of the affair; I could bear the loss of the
bet, but that villain Cagliostro----- ” ,
u How is he mixed up with the matter ?”
asked D’Ostalis— “ Oh I see— this flighty girl
had already deserted you, when you applied to
Cagliostro, and you sought to avail yourself of
his omnipotence, and omniscience, and so forth,
to decoy her back.”
“ Most sagacious D’Ostalis ! methinks you
are going to turn conjurer like your respectable
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 241
friend Cagliostro; if so—you will excuse me
buttoning up my pockets in your company.”
“ No mote my friend, than your own,” re­
torted the Count; “ I am an hundred louis the
worse for seeing his face— to say nothing of the
head-ache which his mystifying jargon gave
me; and the awful manner in which he has twice
shaken my nerves. But what was the result
of your private interview with the d p r io r i
philosopher V 9
“ Results ! zounds ! my complaint is, that
there was no result at all. After making the
fairest promises and insinuating himself into the
heart of my mystery— he turns round upon me,
and refuses me the smallest assistance. Nay
more— he adds insult to injury, and thinks fit
to send me a very didactic epistle, in which he
coolly advises me, as I value my life and happi­
ness, to abandon all thoughts of Antonia— that's
VOL. II. M
Digitized byGoogle
242 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
the tiresome girl’s name— and concludes by
quoting the butt-end of some old sermon on
the immorality of my past courses.”
Count D’Ostalis laughed, and then mused.
“ I tell you what Duke,” said he, “ I would
follow bis advice, and relinquish the business.”
“ Your humble servant,” replied the other,
“ and allow him to carry off the girl himself;
which I verily believe he has already done, for
I have ascertained that she has left her first
lover. N o: no: let me catch this insolent
juggling charlatan within my clutches; and if
I do not make him pay bitterly for the affront
he has put upon me, say that De Fronsac has
no stomach for revenge. In fact, I have only
to hand him over to the police; and they will
punish him sufficiently, on their own account,
for both.”
“ Take my advice,” said Count D’Ostalis
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 243
thoughtfully, “ meddle not with that man, if
indeed he is a man, and nothing more. But
man or demon, be he which he may— leave him
alone. I am not superstitious, but seeing is
believing. Let him keep company with the
devil as much as he pleases, but do not make a
third to the party.”
wPshaw !” cried the Duke, with a contemp­
tuous smile, “ where are your wits ? and where,
oh ! where is your courage ? Do you expect
me— me, De Fronsac— to tremble at these
childish terrors ? That this Cagliostro is a
clever scoundrel, it is impossible to deny— that
he possesses much practical scientific knowledge
I do not doubt. But let us once catch the
gentleman. Handcuffed with iron— within four
stone walls, and deprived of his apparatus, he
will possess no more power, under such circum­
stances, than you or I would have.”
m 2
Digitized byGoogle
COUNT CAOLIOSTRO;
2 4 4
“ Well: w e llre p lie d the Count, “ have
your own way; I am neither Cassandra, nor
Mentor, but Count D'Ostalis. Follow the
desire of your own heart. Do that which
seemeth best unto your Ducal wisdom. But
here comes De Montolieu. Miserable De
Fronsac, how will thy loyalty bear to part with
a thousand beloved images of thy sovereign ? ’
The Count D’Ostalis and the Duke were
walking on the Boulevards. The Marquis, as
both expected, planted himself full in their way,
and saluted them with an air of triumph.
“ I will save you the trouble,” said the Duke,
“ of making your demand. 1 confess myself to
have lost the bet, and will pay you the amount
directly, if you will accompany me to my h6te].
In consideration, therefore, of my prompt set­
tlement, spare me your exultations on the sub­
ject.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 245
*
* You quite mistake my feelings,” said the
Marquis, “ I approached you, not bursting, as
you suppose, with sentiments of ungenerous
triumph, but melted with pity, and filled with
thoughts of compassion and sympathy. Nay,
I would have refused the money, but, that I
cannot consent to deprive you of the fine moral
lesson, which is contained in the loss.”
“ Benevolent soul !” drily exclaimed the
Duke, u is this your first specimen of sympathy
and consolation ?”
“ No :— hear me,” said the Marquis, “ I have
just left at my Chateau at Veret, the most
beautiful creature that Heaven ever suffered to
adorn the earth;— and only seventeen— ”
“ Well;— ” said the Duke.
“ Well— if you will promise to be a good boy,
and say nothing impudent and do nothing
naughty, I will try if I cannot bless your eyes
with a sight of her.”
Digitized by Google
2 4 6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
“ Thanks for your confidence and liberality,”
replied the Duke, with an equivocal smile,
“ Pray; who is this successor to La Gabrielle?”
“ O h! I am not so lucky as you think me;
she is no successor to La Gabrielle— I wish she
were. She is my wife’s niece, so that if I were
to attack her, the attempt would create scandal.”
“ Has she made her debdt at Paris ?” en­
quired the Count D’Ostalis.
“ N o!” replied the Marquis, “ her aunt has
got some confounded notions in her head, about
the demoralizing effects of Parisian society,
which induce her to bury this brightest of
gems at Veret. So the favour I offer is as
exclusive, as it is precious.”
“ I am infinitely beholden to you,” said the
Duke; “ I really think I will accept your offer.”
“ But recollect,” said the Marquis, “ she is
the Marchioness’s niece. Remember— the
Digitized by Google
OR, THB CHARLATAN. 247
strictest decorum is absolutely necessary. If
you look and love, you must despair and die.
The only road is through the Church; and
even were you to deposit your dukedom and
ring matrimonial at her feet, I would not pro­
mise you she would think them worthy picking
up.”
“ And supposing,” replied De Fronsac with
a slight smile, “ that out of complaisance to
your obliging hint, I made this beauty, Duchess
de Fronsac. Confess the truth— would you
enjoy any rest of mind or body, until you had
qualified me for Heaven ?”
“ Hem 1” said the Marquis, “ you have found
me before now a successful antagonist— witness
the bet— ”
“ My bad fortune, not your own merit.”
“ Well,” replied the Marquis, “ at least you
ought to acknowledge my merit, in the matter
Digitized by Google
248 COUNT CAOLIOSTEO :
of the proposed excursion; for your Avatar at
Veret will occasion a terrible quarrel between
the Marchioness and myself. You are a bitter
pill to my better half; she has the worst opinion
of your morals.”
“ You had better sweeten the mixture,” cried
Count D’Ostalis, i( by the addition of my agree­
able company.”
“ I have no objection, most modest Count,”
answered the Marquis; " my travelling carriage
will hold three. But where are your thanks,
Duke ? will you not admit this to be a consola­
tion ?”
“ 1 give you a thousand, and a thousand, and
I wish to God I could pay my bet in the same
coin.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 249
CH A PTE R X X V II.
THE MAN WITHOUT A HEART.
A fter the departure of the Marquis, his wife
was for a time completely happy. She could
now indulge with impunity her transports of
affection towards her long lost, and late reco­
vered daughter. Without fear of surprise or
discovery, she could now clasp Antonia to her
bosom, and shed tears of joy over her head.
A certain learned divine compared life to a
board foil of round and square holes, and men to
m 3
Digitized by Google
250 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
pegs respectively fitted to these apertures; and
added that all the round pegs, by some mischance
or other, got into the square holes, and all the
square pegs into the round holes. Madame de
Montolieu was decidedly a round peg in a
square hole. Nature had constituted her to
attain felicity through the medium of gratified
affections; while destiny, denying her domestic
pleasures, had thrown her into a vortex of fash­
ionable gaiety and dissipation, where she was
stunned by the noise and bustle, without being
amused by the tinsel splendour of the scene.
The truth was, the Marchioness was one of
those rare women, in whose disposition vanity
is a very subordinate passion. Unlike most of
her sex, she would have preferred love to ambi­
tion, and the charms of individual attachment,
to the intoxication of general admiration* The
homage and flattery, which were yielded on
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 251
every aide to her wit and beauty, did not con­
sole her for the state of isolation, in which her
strongest affections were placed. She had no
children. Such of her relations, as were still
living, resided in Italy. Her husband, after
the firat three months of his union, treated her
with civility and neglect. They lived, in short,
on those polite terms of estrangement, which
were common enough before the revolution,
between married people in Parisian society.
Count D’Ostalis was a poor substitute for the
lover, which her ardent imagination and vivid
fancy, had sometimes sketched in beau ideal.
Thus, the most energetic and active portions of
her nature— her passions and her affections—
were entirely unoccupied; and she consequently
experienced that miserable ennui and weariness,
common to all who are endowed with strong
powers, which external circumstances prevent
Digitized by Google
252 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
them from exercising. The restoration of An­
tonia supplied her with an object for these feel­
ings, whose forced inaction rendered her un­
happy. Madame de Montolieu could not bear
to be deprived of her company a single instant.
She was never weary of conversing with her
daughter. Every idea and opinion which the
latter expressed, was, to her devoted mother, as
a fresh page opened in a precious and mystic
volume. x
Madame de Montolieu possessed a very con­
siderable knowledge of natural history, and was
particularly well versed in botany. She pro­
posed to Antonia to learn the science; and the
latter, who felt that mental occupation was the
best consolation she could find for the secret
grief which rankled in her bosom; and who,
moreover, from motives of gratitude and affec­
tion, wished to appear happier than she really
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 253
was, readily accepted the offer. For whole
hours the mother and daughter would wander
through the beautiful domains of the Chateau
de Veret; sometimes indulging in that sweet
interchange of feeling, so dear to intellectual
minds and affectionate hearts; sometimes pursu­
ing the science, the prosecution of which formed
the ostensible object of their stroll. Secluded
from the noise and din of what is called the
fashionable world— removed from the vain and
feverish struggle of society, Madame de Mon-
tolieu felt that the time spent in these simple
and delightful occupations, were the happiest
moments she had ever experienced. The being
she loved best on earth was at her side. The
sweet influences of nature diffused themselves
over her frame, and communicated to her mind a
tranquillity of soul— an unruffled calm of tem­
per and serenity of spirit— which she had never
Digitized by Google
254 COUNT CAGLIOSTEOt
known before. Often the shades of evening
would close over the wanderers, before they
were aware how quickly the happy hours had
passed. Nor did Antonia's spirit long con­
tinue mournful. If she did not attain the per­
fect ease and contentment of her mother; she
felt as if after many storms and dangers she had
at last gained a calm and secure haven. If she
no longer possessed the vivid enjoyment of the
past, neither was she harrassed by the precarious
nature of her situation and the uncertainty of
its duration.
At the dose of one of these days, spent in
the manner we have described, Madame de
Idontolieu and her daughter were sitting in the
saloon of the chateau. Though the autumn
was far advanced, the mildness of the season
had tempted them to throw open the windows,
that they might more fully enjoy the tranquil
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 255
beauty of the evening. The sky was pure and
cloudless. The setting sun poured forth a flood
of golden fire, which bathed every object with
light and glory. Not the faintest breeze was
stirring. Even the slender tree-tops ceased to
tremble. No sounds were heard save the
chirpings of a few retiring birds, who seemed
summoning their partners to rest. The Mar­
chioness sat side by side with her daughter,
tenderly clasping one of Antonia’s hands in
both her own. They mutually gazed on the
calm loveliness of the scene before them; and
neither spoke. After some minutes’ silence,
Antonia chanced to look at the Marchioness,
and saw with surprize that the eyes of the latter
were filled with tears.
“ Does this beautiful sunset give you pain,
my mother V asked Antonia.
“ N o: not pain precisely; but it conjures up
Digitized by Google
256 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
melancholy ideas to my mind. I cannot help
thinking that in a few minutes all this splendour
and glory will be swallowed up in the gloomy
shades of evening. And then a thrill of a p ­
prehension comes over me. And I tremble lest
the happiness I have lately enjoyed, like the
present scene, calm and beautiful, will be also,
like it, brief and evanescent too. I dread that
yonder sunset is the last I shall ever behold in
peace and happiness: and that a long dark
night of sorrow is coming.”
“ You should not allow these vague fancies
and undefined terrors to dwell upon your mind.”
“ And on what subject were your thoughts
running, Antonia?”
“ Nay, I was gazing on the bright orb with
simple animal enjoyment. I did not think— I
only felt.”
Before the Marchioness could reply, . the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 257
sound of wheels in the distance was heard. She
turned to her daughter with a look of appre­
hension.
“ Hark !”
“ It is only the noise of some distant post-
chaise,” answered Antonia. “ Why should you
be alarmed ? ’
" I know not,” said the Marchioness; *
*but
in my present mood, every thing affrights me.”
Neither pursued the topic; but as if to
abstract their attention from the subject, again
looked towards the landscape. The sun’s last
rays were just disappearing over a line of dis­
tant hills. They slowly sunk. The jingle of
the approaching vehicle now became distinctly
audible. At length it was heard to rattle into
the court-yard of the chateau. The March­
ioness started up, and exclaimed, “ I wonder
who it can be— how my heart beats !”
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
258
“ Dearest mother/’ said Antonia, flinging
her arms round the Marchioness, “ be calm—
why should you apprehend danger ?”
“ Because, my darling----- but I hear foot­
steps in the passage; they are coming into the
saloon; let us resume our seats.”
As she spoke, the door opened; and the
Marquis de Montolieu entered, ushering in the
Duke de Fronsac!
“ Ladies, your most obedient; you did not
expect me to return so soon. Mademoiselle von
Oberfeklt, allow me to introduce to you my
particular friend the Due de Fronsac.”
Had a bomb on the point of explosion fallen
into the centre of the apartment, the deadly
missile would not have struck such terror to the
hearts of the Marchioness and Antonia, as the
sudden appearance of this dreaded nobleman.
At first they gazed in speechless consternation.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN.
But when Antonia beard him introduced to
her by name, she could no longer controul her
feelings. She uttered a loud shriek, and fainted.
The Marchioness caught her in her arms.
Overcome as the latter lady was by terror and
anguish, she still retained sufficient presence of
mind to make an apology for her niece’s con­
duct. Mademoiselle von Oberfeldt had been
very ill ever since the Marquis had left the
ch&teau, and had fainted several times before
that day.
“ How unfortunate!” said the Marquis, con­
templating the pale but still lovely features of
Antonia, as she lay on the sofa, where the
Marchioness had placed her; “ these repeated
faintings will ruin her beauty.”
“ It is very strange, Madame la Marquise,”
said the Duke, fixing a cold, malignant eye
upon Madame de Montolieu; “ but methought
Digitized by Google
260 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
when I first entered the room, the young lady
possessed as perfect and lovely a bloom as ever
tinged the cheek of health.”
The Marchioness, the moment she had depo­
sited Antonia on the sofa, had rung the bell for
assistance. Her own soubrette now made her
appearance; and by their joint assistance,
Antonia, who had already recovered her senses,
was enabled to walk to her sleeping apartment.
The Marchioness skilfully availed herself of the
pretext afforded by Antonia’s illness, to gain a
short period of quiet and solitary reflection, and
took the opportunity to retire with her pretended
niece. When the Marchioness had left the
room, she endeavoured to compose her thoughts,
and cajmly to reflect what course it was most
advisable for her, under her present distressing
circumstances, to adopt. Yet, anxious as she
was to find a remedy for her embarrassment, she
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 261
could not help marvelling at the singular cruelty
of the mischance which had befallen her. There
was but one man in all France, whose presence
she dreaded at the chateau; and guided by
some fatal perversity, the Marquis had selected
that particular individual as his companion.
But she had no leisure to pursue this train of
thought.— Something must be done; and that
speedily.— If the Duke communicated the cir­
cumstances which had first connected him with
Antonia, her fate was sealed. She would stand
convicted in the eyes of her husband of a fla­
grant, though unintelligible and inexplicable
imposture. If her real relationship to Antonia
were eventually discovered, the case would be
still worse. She knew that the Marquis, though
indifferent to her conduct as a wife, would
never forgive a transgression committed before
marriage. Had she not acted foolishly in
Digitized by Google
362 COUNT cagliostro :
leaving the Duke alone with her husband?
De Fronsac might hesitate in communicating
the secret in her presence, but he could hardly
be expected to feel much reluctance in imparting
the information during a familiar t£te-&-t£te.
Had she not better return, and keep perpetually
in their company ? There was one chance of
escape; if she could prevent the Duke from
betraying the secret, until she could obtain a
private interview, she might persuade him to
bury the transaction in eternal silence. She
would throw herself on his mercy, and appeal
to his generosity. She would take him into her
confidence. She would explain to him the
near but unfortunate tie which existed between
Mademoiselle von Oberfeldt and herself. She
would endeavour to rouse the feelings of a
father and a man, and would leave the point to
be decided by his conscience, whether he would
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 3 6 8
sacrifice both mother and daughter to the indul­
gence of a selfish passion. She felt sure he
could not be so dead to all sense of honour and
generosity— so destitute of every better principle
of our nature, as to refuse her request, or betray
her. It is true she felt no great confidence in
his character, from the traits of his conduct
which had fallen under her observation, or had
been related to her. Still he had a human
form, and with all his vices, must have a human
heart. Fraught with these resolutions, the
Marchioness rejoined her husband and his
visitor. She was much relieved to find from
the former's manner, that nothing had as yet
transpired. With a heavy and aching heart,
she nevertheless joined in conversation, and
even answered some questions relative to Anto­
nia’s indisposition, with tolerable composure.
The evening, though it appeared to the
Digitized by Google
264 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
anxious Marchioness a century, did not in
reality last very long: for the Marquis was
fatigued with his journey, and proposed retiring
at an early hour. As the party were about to
leave the saloon for their respective sleeping
apartments, the Marchioness hastily scribbled a
small note in pencil, and slipped it into the
Duke’shand. The latter bowed significantly and
passed on. The paper contained these words:—
“ Monsieur le Due, favour me with an inter­
view in my dressing-room before you retire to
rest”
It must be recollected that the Marquis and
Marchioness de Montolieu occupied separate
apartments.
The Marchioness traversed her room with dis­
ordered steps, anxiously revolving the possibility
of securing the Duke’s silence. A slight tap
at the door announced his arrival. The Mar-
Digitized by Google
OR, TUB CHARLATAN. 2 6 5
chioness advanced, and endeav6ured to open it;
but her agitation was so excessive, that she was
unable to accomplish even this simple task.
The latter obeyed, and entered with & brisk
triumphant air.
“ Monsieur le Due,” said the Marchioness,
hardly able to articulate, '‘ doubtless you will
be surprised at the step I have taken, but the
painful circumstances in which I am placed
leave me no other resource.”
“ I agree with you, Madame la Marquise,”
replied De Fronsao.
“ Monsieur le Due, I am about to ask you a
favour,— trifling indeed to you, but one on
which my future happiness depends.”
“ I anticipated as much.”
“ Will you be merciful, and grant it to
me?”
“ I never sign promises in blank, and leave
VOL. II. n
Digitized by Google
266 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO .*
them to be filled up. You must explain* ma-
dame.”
“ My niece, Mademoiselle Von Oberfeldt,
has not always borne the name and character
she now maintains.”
“ Assuredly she has not.”
“ The Marquis is not aware of this fact—
but— but-----”
“ But his curiosity is roused,” rejoined the
Duke, malignantly, “ and a single word would
give him a clue to the whole mystery.”
“ God forbid ! All that 1 ask you, Duke, is
to continue to preserve the kind silence which
you have hitherto maintained.”
“ Before I answer your request, madam, you
must permit me to inquire the meaning of
your inexplicable conduct. What earthly object
can you propose to gain by causing a young
adventuress to enact the part of your niece ?”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 267
j wPainful circumstances,” said the Marchion­
ess, gasping out the words, “ which I cannot
explain, have impelled me to the strange course
I have taken. But I ask you, in your turn,
Monsieur le Due, what object you can propose
to gain by revealing a secret on which the
happiness of two human beings depends?”
“ I will tell you frankly, Madam,” replied
the Duke. “ Your present conduct is an obstacle
to the completion of my desires. You stand
between me and my pleasures. For years I
have supported, educated, and protected the
peevish girl whom you now patronize. In spite
of my numerous favours she left me. But she
has now lost the paramour she fled with; and
want and penury would soon compel her to sue
for readmittance to my roof, did not your ca­
pricious and unaccountable favour support her
in her pride and ingratitude.”
Digitized by Google
268 COUNT c a g l io s t r o : E
“ A h ! spare that unhappy child more misery*^
said the Marchioness. “ She has suffered sa
much already. Born with a disposition that
nature formed for love and pleasure, she ha*
endured every variety of woe. Now that she
has at last gained a quiet haven, do not drive
her thence. There are a thousand women in
France who would with eagerness dispute the
honour of your attentions; in mercy do not
force them on this poor girl To gratify an
hour’s whim, do not make her miserable for life.
Speak: Duke, you are wild and gay; but I know
you are generous at heart— you will grant my
request— you will allow her to remain unmo­
lested in her retreat.”
“ Nothing for nothing,” replied the Duke*
“ In this egotistical world everything has its
price; and a cypher seldom fetches more than
its own value. The only alliances that are
Digitized by Google
S3 OR, THE CHARLATAN. 269
firm and lasting are those which benefit both
parties. What profit do I draw from this treaty
of silence ? What recompense do you offer me
for keeping your secrets ?*
“ Point me outany mode of evincing my grati­
tude,” replied the Marchioness, eagerly. “ Ah !
how gladly would I obey the suggestion.”
“ At present,” said the Duke, with a look
which made the Marchioness shudder, “ I will
dispense with any personal proof of gratitude
on your own part. It is by your influence over
your protegee’s mind that you can chiefly hope
to render me service. You need not communi­
cate to her the danger of her position. It is
evident, by her agitation, that she is fully aware
of it. But you must inculcate compliance to my
desires as the only path of safety. You must
stifle the last lingering throbs of hesitation or
reluctance; you must teach her to affect, if she
n 2
Digitized by Google
270 COUNT cagliostro :
cannot feel, regret for her past refusals, and
make her sensible that nothing but an excess of
complaisance will induce me to pardon her fory
mer obduracy. On these very mild conditions
I engage on my part not to betray the imposU
tion she is carrying on, nor in any way to dis­
turb her present position.**
The Marchioness during this speech seemed
stupified with horror. On the cessation of his
voice she appeared to perceive the necessity of
rousing her energy, and making some answer to
the odious propositions she had just heard.
“ You do not know,*’ said she, in an almost
hysterical tone, “ you do not understand our
real position— our relation to each other-or
else you could not propose such horrors. I wiU
confide in you— I will explain everything.
That young person, Antonia I mean, you will
hear with surprise, is my daughter. Yes ; before
Digitized byGoogle
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 271
my marriage with the Marquis. Judge now if
you will persist in these dreadful conditions.
My guilt— my neglect— my criminal neglect—
have already brought down a load of evil upon
my unhappy child. Already she has been
placed, by the desertion of her natural relations,
in frightful positions, where resistance to sur­
rounding circumstances was impossible. Would
you now put the crowning stroke to her misery
and my infamy, and make me become the
procuress and seducer of my own daughter?
No; no; you jest—you do but jest. It is as
little in man to ask, as it is in woman to grant
such a request. Were you ever a father, Duke?
But no, you could never understand the strength
and depth of my affection. True, she is ille­
gitimate, but she is still my child— the only one
I ever had. I lost her in early youth. Through­
out my whole life I have thought of her—
Digitized byGoogle
c
m COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
dreamed of her, till I was almost mad; I sought
her as a miser would search for the one lost
jewel which constituted his whole fortune. I
found her and began to dream of happiness. I
risked reputation and almost life to recover her
— to place her in her present situation; and
will you crush our dawning hopes for ever?
Will you bid me— a mother— to become my
own daughter's executioner? No; no. You
did not know what you asked. In the name of
common humanity,” continued the frantic Mar­
chioness, throwing herself at the Duke's feet,
“ I implore your mercy. You may one day
need it yourself. I entreat your mercy. Allow
us to exist in peace. When you have broken
the heart of one who never injured you, and
rendered infamous the dearest object of her love,
will you be happier yourself? Listen to the
prayers of a mother— you had a mother once
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THX CHARLATAN. *Y5
yourself Yield to your better feelings. Pro­
mise that you will not reveal the secret to my
husband. Promise that you will not utter that
one word!”
Here the Marchioness paused from utter ex­
haustion. The Duke, who had listened with
the utmost curiosity and interest to the Mar­
chioness’s narrative, or rather to her broken
exclamations, contemplated her kneeling figure
with great attention, and after a few moments’
silence, said:—
“ I believe you, madam,—you resemble An­
tonia in face, figure, and toumure. Yes: the
tale is true— your very attitudes are the same—
the same marvellous grace of form— the same
elegance and freedom of motion. These prove
your maternity, better than a hundred lying
witnesses.”
u You believe my story ?” resumed the Mar-
Digitized byGoogle
274 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
chioness eagerly, “ you cannot then hesitate to
grant my request, to promise secresy without
annexing those horrible conditions?”
“ You must have formed a strange idea of
my character, madame,” said the Duke, with
much composure, “ to think that a long tragedy
speech, even though well recited, and delivered
with good emphasis, would induce me to swerve
from my determination. The case stands sim­
ply thus. I find my runaway mistress main­
taining a fictitious character in my friend’s
house. Well— I am not ill-natured. I offer
not to disturb her game, if she will only consent
to play mine for a short time. I am willing
enough to sacrifice my friend to her— what can
I do more ? You cannot expect me to sacrifice
myself— my own pleasures. Every body has
his turn. A few months ago, circumstances
gave her the power of eluding my grasp; she
Digitized byGoogle
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 275
nsed it without scruple. Now, circumstances
enable me to extort from her whatever I choose
to ask. Do you think I shall be such an idiot,
as to forbear availing myself of the opportunity.
I offer her the alternative of an assignation, or
a revelation. Let her choose between the two ;
I have taken my resolution: let her do the same.
Madame la Marquise I have the honour to wish
you good night”
Before the Marchioness could make any an­
swer, or renew her supplications, he had left the
apartment
END OF VOL. II.
LONDON
C. R IC H A R D S, PR IN T E R , 100, ST. M ARTIN'S L A N E , CHAR1NO CROSS.
Digitized byGoogle
' )
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
OR,
T H E C H A R L A T A N .
A TALE OF
TH E REIGN OF LOUIS XVI.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.
L O N D O N :
EDWARD BULL, PUBLIC LIBRARY,
19, HOLLES STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE.
1838.
Digitized by Google
J.OXDON:—C. RICHARDS, PRINTER, IT. MARTIN'S LANE.
Digitized by Google
C O U N T C A G U O S T R O :
O
*,
THE CHARLATAN.
CH APTER X X V III.
THE DISCLOSURE.
W h en the Duke reached his own apartment, he
began to review the agitating scene which had
just occurred. At one conclusion he speedily
arrived; viz. that it was useless to wait for the
Marchioness’s answer. When he recalled her
looks of bewildered horror at the first announce**
vol. h i. B
Digitized by Google
2 COUNT CAGUOSTRO:
ment of the scheme— her obstinate incredulity
in the seriousness of his proposal, and the latent
conviction, which she seemed to feel, that he
could not be so cruel as to execute his threats;
all hopes of inducing her to consent to his infa­
mous terms vanished. Other objections to the
eligibility of his plan also rose to his mind. He
recollected that, though in most matters, De
Montolieu was an easy tempered man, it was
not safe to tamper with any point which, in
iliat nobleman's opinion, implicated his family
dignity; and he clearly saw, that if his proposed
intrigue with Antonia, and his concealment of
her real parentage, should transpire, that he
should certainly be called to a severe account
by her supposed uncle-in-law. The knowledge
of Antonia’s relationship to the Marchioness,
suggested to his mind a safer and a plainer
course, than a reluctant agreement, which that .
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 3
lady would do all in her power to counterwork.
He would go to the Marquis the next morning,
communicate to him the whole story without
reserve, and boldly demand as his own the
mistress whose elopement had already cost him
so dear. If, too, the Marquis, as the Duke
strongly suspected, entertained a lurking pas­
sion for Antonia, common decency would pre­
vent him from intriguing with his own wife’s
daughter; and he could then do nothing else
but surrender her up, to the friend who had
unravelled for him such a daring and mysteri­
ous imposture.
Meditating on these execrable^ cold-blooded
schemes of villainy, the Duke fell asleep, and
enjoyed a tranquil and refreshing slumber
until the next morning.
It is a mistake to suppose, that a thorough
and complete scoundrel suffers from uneasiness
b 2
Digitized by Google
4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
of conscience. As long as he can stave off the
disagreeable consequences which sometimesover­
take misdeeds, but are not their infallible re­
sult, he often enjoys life exceedingly; far more,
indeed, than his betters. He can breathe the
congenial atmosphere of vice, without pain or
difficulty. Crime is to him his natural element,
and he exists in it, as comfortably, and as easily,
as a fish in water. It is the partly bad— the
man of mixed and contradictory character—
not destitute of moral faculties, but not possess­
ing them in a degree sufficient to controul his
baser inclinations— who is first hurried into
guilt by his impetuous passions, and then, when
the pleasure is over, and the vanity of the temp­
tation apparent, becomes a prey to the bitter
upbraidings of conscience. This is the man
who experiences that miserable reaction of his
better feelings, called remorse, and realizes in
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 5
this world that hell, which religion declares to
be his lot in the next.
It was the custom of the luxurious inmates of
the chateau to take a cup of coffee, or some
other slight refreshment, in their rooms, on first
waking; and to descend about noon into the
salle-sl-manger, where they partook of a very
substantial repast called breakfast. Before this
hour, the company did not usually meet.
The next morning the Duke sought the
dressing-room of his host. The latter had
arisen, and was in the act of taking the slight
repast to which we have alluded.
“ By your leave, De Montolieu,” said the
Duke, “ I will take my coffee with you this
morning. I have an important communication
to make to you.”
“ Good— I am delighted to hear so,” replied
the Marquis, yawning. “ I wanted something
Digitized by Google
6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO .*
to amuse me. Let me send for fresh coffee, or
do you prefer chocolate ?”
“ The chocolate, if you please*” said the Duke.
“ Now for your communication, Duke,” cried
De Montolieu, flinging himself back in his easy
fauteuil.
“ Since I saw you last night,” said the Duke,
beginning to sip his chocolate, “ I have made
some very interesting genealogical discoveries
in your family tree.”
The Marquis’s brow darkened. Pride of
ancestry was one of the strongest of his nume­
rous stock of prejudices.
“ The investigationofmygenealogy,” answered
the Marquis, with great stiffness of manner,
and dryness of tone, “ must have impressed
your mind with the conviction that the Monto-
lieus are an old and noble race* who have always
been ready to defend the honour of their line.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 7
“ It is not to that portion of your race who
are quietly rotting in lead and velvet, that my
communication refers. I allude to a certain
fair shoot grafted on your matrimonial branch.”
“ My dear Duke,” returned the Marquis,
who did not understand raillery on the subject,
“ you are neither holding the language of
heraldry nor that of the world. For God’s sake
speak out, and tell me in plain French what
you mean.”
“ Well then,” said the Duke, “ to drop all
farther metaphor, do you remember a certain
bet we made over our cups some six months
ago?”
“ I have not such bitter reasons,” said the
Marquis, chuckling with triumph, “ for recol­
lecting the facts, as yourself; but my memory
does not fail me on the subject.”
“ You recollect also,” continued the Duke,
Digitized by Google
8 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ that the fair damsel who was to have gained
the prize of beauty on my behalf, eloped before
she became the character which entitled her to
compete with La Gabrielle.”
u My poor Duke,” cried the Marquis, “ the
loss of the thousand louis has certainly affected
your wits. What has the dull recapitulation of
stale facts got to do with my family tree V
“ Patience ! I am approaching the end of
my story; and the novelty of my catastrophe
will atone for the dulness of the preceding nar­
rative. In the most extraordinary manner, I
have discovered the birth and genealogy of the
young heroine that I intended to make my state
mistress. And who, in the name of wonder, do
you think she proves to be ?”
“ How can I tell ?” replied the Marquis.
“ Somebody very grand, I suppose— a change­
ling princess, or an archbishop’s bastard ”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 9
“ Your last guess is not so bad. She has a
cardinal for a great uncle. Now mark me.
Put the cup from which you are sipping your
coffee down on the table.— It is a beautiful spe­
cimen of S&vres china; and I should be sorry
to see you break it.— Then screw up your nerves
as forcibly as possible. Tightly grasp the arms
of your easy chair with both hands, and listen
to what I am about to say.”
“ If my hands were at liberty,” said the
Marquis, “ I should use them to hold my sides;
for great will be my laughter, when after this
solemn preamble, I shall see you delivered, like
the mountain in labour, of something much
more ridiculous than a mouse.”
“ The adventuress, then, to whom I allude,”
continued the Duke, speaking slowly and empha­
tically, “ who was born without a surname, and
to whom I gave the appellation of Volterra,
b S
Digitized by Google
10 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
turns out to be the daughter of your wife,
Marquis, and identical with Mademoiselle von
Oberfeldt, who is now an inmate of this magni­
ficent ch&teau.”
The Duke had correctly anticipated the fate
of the coffee-cup. Throwing it from him with
violence, the Marquis started from his recum­
bent position, as if stung by a serpent “ The
Marchioness de Montolieu’s daughter!” ex­
claimed he, with intense rage. “ You rave;—
you have been dreaming* and in your madness
mistake your visions for reality.”
“ I might with greater reason,” replied the
Duke, “ compare you to a somnambulist, who
walks about with his eyes open, and cannot see
what is passing under his nose. I can call my
whole household at Chamilly to prove the iden­
tity of Antonia di Volterra, and the adventuress
who now passes as your wife’s niece.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. ll
“ The very last woman on earth I should
have suspected !” said the Marquis, as if rather
communing with his own thoughts, than an­
swering the Duke. “ ’Sdeath, I shall go mad !”
“ Come,— come,” said the Duke, coolly;
“ such things have happened before now, even
in the noble house of Montolieu. Was there
not a certain Vicomtesse de Montolieu much
patronised by the *grand monarque?* And
did not the Vicomte receive a marquisate, with
divers broad lands, as the reward of his loyal
and discreet complaisance ?”
“ Pooh ! that was nothing— the Vicomtesse
was a married woman. Her liaison with Louis
the Fourteenth was conducted according to the
strictest rules of etiquette and fashionable usage,
and occasioned no scandal. It brought wealth
and honours to her husband, and conferred
historical celebrity on her descendants. But an
Digitized by Google
12 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
intrigue before marriage! an intrigue with some
low, obscure, unknown fellow—a roturier per­
haps.— Bah ! the disgrace is irreparable.”
“ W ell! for my own part,” said the Duke,
shrugging his shoulders, “ I do not see why
that which is a trifle in a married dame should
be such an inexpiable enormity in a spinster.
I admit, however, that the majority of the
fashionable world are of your opinion. Be this
as it may, the truth of my story is incontestable.
Examine the Marchioness. Charge her directly
with the imposture; and she will not have the
effrontery to affect farther concealment.”
“ And Baron Swartzenheim !” continued the
Marquis, u the German envoy to the Empress
Catherine: I feel crazy at the recollection of
the imposition. When I fancied that I was ral­
lying him with such success, how the villain
must have been laughing in his sleeve all the
time.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 18
MIn truth,” returned the Duke, " I think,
that up to the present time the German has had
the best of the jest.”
“ What shall I do ?” said the Marquis, pacing
the apartment with disordered steps. *
*What
course shall I take? I will not countenance
her a moment longer. Had she contracted a
liaison with the greatest roue in Paris, I should
not have interfered with her pleasures; but an
intrigue before she was a married woman ! her
conduct is scandalous— irremediable ! I will
separate forthwith.”
“ Humph !” observed the Duke. “ In that
case you must restore the fortune she brought
you. 1 would advise you to pause ere you take
that step.”
“ Well then,” exclaimed the Marquis, “ I
will obtain a lettre de cachet, and shut her up;
her maintenance in the Bastille will not cost
much.”
Digitized by Google
14 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ An excellent plan !” calmly responded the
Duke, “ if feasible. But I doubt whether in
these times you will persuade the ministry to
grant you such a favour. Necker has already
refused two or three persons of the highest
quality. A terrible change for the worse has
silently and imperceptibly taken place in the
system of government. Those lettres de cachet
were such convenient things. If any audacious
member of the numerous class of nobodies
offended or stood in the way of one of the
select order of somebodies, the aggrieved lord
could easily extinguish the obnoxious individual
for ever, by plunging him into that living tomb,
a state prison. Such a power was some compen­
sation for the loss of our hereditary rights of
justice; but I am afraid, my friend, we have
fallen on evil days. You will not be able to
extort the lettre de cachet.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 15
“ At any rate 1 will make the attempt,” said
the Marquis. “ If ever family crimes required
that interposition of royal power, surely mine
is that case. Lend me your powerful aid at
Court, and I doubt not but that I shall succeed.
The queen will take my part, for she does not
like the Marchioness.”
“ But are you determined,” said the Duke,
in a tone of affected moderation, “ to take all
these violent steps before you have spoken to
the Marchioness on the subject— before you are
satisfied of her guilt ?”
“ I am quite convinced,” eagerly answered
the Marquis, “ I want no farther evidence.
Now my suspicions are aroused, I recollect a
thousand little circumstances confirmatory of
her guilt. An intrigue before marriage ! Never
till now has the house of Montolieu sustained
such a disgrace.”
Digitized byGoogle
16 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
u Well,” said the Duke, “ I will exert what­
ever influence I possess at Versailles to assist
your cause; but I doubt our success. But what
are you going to do with the young lady— your
newly discovered daughter-in-law V
" Take her— seduce her— ruin— kill her,”
exclaimed the Marquis, with rising fury. “ Do
what you like with her.”
“ I am obliged to you, my dear Marquis, for
your extreme liberality; but a happy thought
strikes me; can we not get her included in the
lettre de cachet?”
“ Certainly,” answered the other, “ she is an
accomplice throughout the whole imposture.
But what are you to gain by putting her in
prison ? You cannot visit her in the Bastille.”
“ No,” said the Duke, “ but four or five
months9imprisonment is an excellent and ap­
proved medicine for pride and insolence. At
Digitized byGoogle
OR, TH^CHARLATAN. 17
the end of that time, my young lady will be
glad to purchase her liberty on any terms.”
There is nothing, not even religious bigotry,
which so effectually hardens the heart as the
perpetual pursuit of selfish pleasures. Where
his gratification is concerned, a roue is the most
remorseless and cruel of men. He would sa­
crifice the whole world rather than deprive him­
self of a single agreeable sensation.
When the whole party assembled at noon,
there was nothing in the Marquis’s manner,
which could lead Madame de Montolieu to the
conclusion, that the Duke had disclosed the
secret to her husband. The conversation was
languid, but no single remark or allusion was
dropped which argued the faintest suspicion on
the Marquis’s side of the real state of circum­
stances. Bred up in courts, he was naturally a
good dissembler. He spoke to Antonia with
Digitized byGoogle
18 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
his usual cordiality; and the Duke admirably
supported the game, by asking the Marchioness,
with an air of affectionate politeness, how she
had passed the night. They announced, how­
ever, their intention to return to Paris, but this
sudden distaste for the country did not astonish
Madame de Montolieu, who was well aware of
their partiality for the capital. Their excursion
to Veret was in her judgment much more sur­
prising and unaccountable than their returning
to the metropolis.
The day after, they took their departure,
leaving the Marchioness in the most miserable
state of uncertainty as to the probable safety of
her secret. The sword was suspended over her
by a much frailer support than a single hair—
it rested on the Due de Fronsac’s mercy.
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 19
CH APTER X X IX .
THE KINO, AND THE COURTIERS.
A r r i v e d at Versailles, the Duke de Fronsac
and the Marquis de Montolieu encountered
no great difficulty in obtaining a private inter­
view with the king. Louis the Sixteenth, to
whom the exercise of any sort of power seems
to have been an insupportable burthen, and
who shrunk as much from regulating the cere­
monies of a ball, as from promulgating an edict
for the government of his kingdom, was too
Digitized byGoogle
20 COUNT CAGUOSTRO:
happy to devolve the control of all matters, con­
nected with presentations and interviews, to his
Grand Chamberlain, the Duke de Dreux Brez6.
Upon the mind of this nobleman, the ancient
genealogy, high rank, and great wealth of the
applicants, had their due effect. A day was
instantly fixed for the interview.
Appointments between princes and subjects,
are, at least, generally kept by the latter. The
two noblemen took good care to be in the ante­
room at the hour fixed on. After waiting some
time, they were admitted into the royal closet.
The personal appearance of this unfortunate
monarch is so well known, from the numerous
portraits which are scattered over Europe, that
it is quite unnecessary to describe his face and
figure. Every one can recollect the fleshy and
unintellectual contour of his countenance, re­
deemed, however, by a somewhat mild and bene-
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 21
volent expression. His simplicity of demeanour
was great, but unsuited to a king. Nature had
not gifted him with the imposing dignity, or
the magnificent condescension, of his ancestor,
Louis the Fourteenth ; and unfortunately, he
had not sufficient ability to see the necessity of
simulating these qualities, which so effectually
awe and dazzle the vulgar herd of mankind.
He treated the two noblemen with a fami­
liarity, that set them too soon and too much at
ease in his company; while, unfortunately, the
pleasing effect of such extreme condescension,
was considerably impaired by the roughness
and homeliness of his manners. After the
first formal salutations were over, Louis the
Sixteenth demanded the nature of their busi­
ness.
“ Every fresh visitor,” said he, with a strong
expression of weariness and distress, “ that I
Digitized byGoogle
22 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
admit into my closet, is the herald of some new
disaster, or embarrassment. Every body gives
me advice, but nobody renders me assistance.
One half of my counsellors are pushing me for­
wards. The other half are dragging me back.
Half the crew are rowing to the north; half to
the south; and both parties swear, that they
are obeying my orders, and consulting my in­
clinations. What bad news do you bring, gen­
tlemen ? some fresh revolt in the provinces ?
some outrage at Paris ?”
“ It is indeed a misfortune, Sire,” answered
the Marquis, “ that compels me to seek your
presence, but the calamity is of a domestic na­
ture, and affects none of your Majesty’s loyal
subjects, but the individual who now craves
your aid and protection.”
“ God be praised!” cried Louis, much re­
lieved to find that his suitors’ business was not
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 23
political. “ Monsieur le Marquis, I am sincerely
sorry for your family grief, whatever it may be,
though I cannot help rejoicing to learn, that
my anticipations of fresh disturbances are not
realized, for I am quite worn out with state
perplexities. But what are the circumstances
under which you ask for my assistance ?”
“ I will explain,” answered the Marquis. “ I
have now been married to the Marchioness de
Montolieu upwards of ten years; and during
that time, I trust I have been a faithful and
indulgent husband."
Louis the Sixteenth, who, unlike his prede­
cessor, knew nothing of the scandal of his capital,
gave implicit credit to the statement of the
Marquis.
“ A short time ago," resumed De Montolieu,
“ the Marchioness induced me to receive into
my family a young person, whom she repre-
Digitized byGoogle
24 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
sented as her niece. The imposture was con­
ducted with so mud) skill, and the girl sustained
her fictitious character with so much tact and
ability, that I should never have suspected the
deception. Luckily my friend De Fronsac
chanced to pay me a visit at my chateau. And
I will request him to state the scandalous disco­
veries that ensued."
Louis turned, with a stolid look of wonder­
ment, from the Marquis to his companion.
“ Some years ago, Sire," interposed the Duke,
“ I was induced, from motives of charity, to
adopt a young orphan. She proved to be of a
vicious disposition, and subsequently eloped
from my roof, in company with a young Eng­
lishman. For some months I lost all trace of
the girl, nor did I again see her until the
Marquis took me to his chateau at Veret, and
introduced me to his wife's niece. What was
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 25
ray surprise to recognise, in the pretended niece
of the Marquis, my former protegee. I sup­
pressed my astonishment, until I found myself
alone with the Marchioness. I accused her of
palming an adventuress on her husband, as her
relation. She confessed the imposition; but
stated, that the girl was in truth a natural child,
which she had borne before marriage; and that
excess of maternal affection had prompted her
to adopt this measure, as the only means by
which she could enjoy the society of her daughter.
She appealed to my pity, and solicited my
secrecy; but my duty to my friend overpowered
every other consideration."
“ This is a distressing business,’* said the
K ing; “ a very painful affair— but what can I
do for you, Monsieur
“ Sire," resumed De Montolieu, “ it is evi­
dent from the manner in which this imposition
vol. h i. c
Digitized byGoogle
26 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
lias been carried on— from the marks of preme­
ditation which it wears— from the number of
accomplices who must have been engaged in
it— that the criminal and unhappy woman whom
I have the misfortune to call my wife, lias con­
tracted acquaintances no less dishonourable to
herself, than dangerous to me. My family
honour— my fortune— nay, even my life—
are hardly safe, if I am not armed with the
power to prevent such conspiracies.”
“ And how am I to protect you, Monsieur ?”
said the King, with an exceedingly simple air.
u Give me authority to place this misguided
woman, and the young adventuress whom she
confesses to be her natural daughter, under
restraint, until I can find means to detect their
accomplices, and unravel their intrigues. Nothing
but legal duress and confinement will be suffi­
cient to coerce spirits capable of conceiving and
executing such an audacious piece of imposture.”
Digitized byC j O O Q l e
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 27
“ I see now,” said Louis, Mat what you are
aiming. You want me to grant you a lettre de
cachet—but why not seek redress from the
ordinary tribunals ?”
“ Consider, Sire,” answered the Marquis,
Mthe misery of exposing these family misfor­
tunes to the vulgar gaze. It is bad enough to
be deceived by one’s wife, but ten times worse
to know that every roturier in France is laughing
at the deception, and thanking Ood that he is
not the Marquis de Montolieu. Then look at
the law’s indefinite delay— the idle quibbles
which both judges and advocates fondly seize
upon, as a pretext for refusing substantial jus­
tice. Who can predict the decision of a suit,
any more than the result of a battle? Skill
and dexterity win the victory in both. So per­
haps after I have convinced all France of my
injury and the Marchioness’s infamy, I may
c 2
Digitized byGoogle
28 COUNT CAOLIOSTEO 5
hear judgment pronounced against me, because
my lawyer or his clerk may have transposed or
omitted a sentence in the pleadings. I am not
even sure that this base conspiracy and impo-
sition is a legal crime, and punishable by law/’
“ There is much truth in what you say, Mon­
sieur,” observed the King; “ and I heartily
condole with you on the misconduct of the
Marchioness. As far as my own personal incli­
nations are concerned, I should not hesitate to
comply with your application. But I assure
you, such a step is entirely out of my power.
Necker will not hear of lettres de cachet. He
reads me a lecture every day, to prove how
injuriously they operate on the happiness of my
people. After all, he may be right. And one
thing is quite certain, I ought to strive as
much as possible to promote the welfare of
Frenchmen.”
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 2 9
“ Such a wish is conformable to your Majesty’s
well-known benevolence,” interrupted the Duke.
“ But if the descendant of a race who have
fought and bled for France might presume to
offer an honest opinion to the King whom he
adores, I would counsel you, Sire, to attain the
desirable end you spoke of, by following the
dictates of your own excellent judgment. Dis­
trust those advisers, who would persuade you to
sacrifice power to popularity; and who would
pluck from your crown its brightest jewels,
under the pretenceofrendering it a more pleasing
object in your subjects’ eyes. Grasp with a
firm hand the sceptre of your ancestors, and
govern according to those ancient laws and cus­
toms which have raised the state to its present
pitch of glory and greatness.”
“ Ay,” said the King, with somewhat of doubt
and irresolution in his manner, “ the queen
Digitized by Google
80 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
and her friends are always holding the same
language to me: and sometimes I feel deter­
mined to embrace the course they recommend,
but then”-----
“ What is the obstacle, Sire V said the Duke.
“ The deficit,” returned Louis, with a sigh ;
“ the increasing deficit in the revenues— the
stubborn and disloyal refusal of the Parliament
to register my edicts— the difficulty of collecting
the taxes— the riots and disturbances, which
can only be quelled by shedding blood. The
thoughts of all these things rise to my mind;
and then I pause, and hesitate, and begin to
think that Necker’s mild and peaceful plan of
appeasing discontents by reform, is preferable
to the employment of military force.”
“ But no military force,” interposed the
Marquis, <
<is requisite in the present case. All
that I ask is your signature to a mandate, which
will be implicitly obeyed.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 31
“ True— true,” answered the feeble-minded
monarch; “ I had forgotten that. Well, Mon­
sieur, I will see what can be done. Have you
mentioned the matter to any of my ministers ?”
“ To none,” replied the Marquis, “ except to
Monsieur Du Crosne, the lieutenant of police.”
“ He is acquainted then with the facts of
your case ?” said the King.
“ He is, Sire.”
“ Well— he will attend at the council to­
morrow ; and if I can settle matters with Necker,
I will issue the lettre de cachet.”
Satisfied with the impression which they had
made upon their monarch, the two noblemen
took their leave.
“ We have played our cards well,” said the
Marquis to his companion.
“ Yes— pretty well as yet,” replied the Duke;
“ but the real battle— the odd trick, to continue
your metaphor— must be won to-morrow 5 and
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
32
Necker will not concede the point without a
desperate struggle.”
“ True,” said Montolieu, “ I did not like to
see the King yield his assent with so little
difficulty. I fear the minister will be able to
twist the royal weathercock back to its old place
with the same facility.”
“ Never did you utter a truer prophecy,”
said the Duke. “ With Louis the last word is
always the truest, and the last plan always the
wisest. The only way in which we can win
the game is to secure the highest trump.”
“ To whom do you allude ?”
“ To the Queen, man— to Marie Antoinette
— whom else should I mean ?”
“ Alas! it is too late now,” said De Montolieu,
“ that matter should have been thought of, and
cared for before.”
“ That matter was thought of, and was cared
for before, by your provident and disinterested
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 33
ally. Know that in half an hour I shall be
admitted to the honour of an interview with the
Queen, and if I don't enlist her in your cause,
I will give you leave to take out my brains and
throw them to your dog for breakfast.”
“ Incomparable De Fronsac! I could fall
down and worship you.”
“ Oh fie ! Reserve your pious adorations for
the proper quarter. If you defraud Satan of his
due, he will not stand your friend on the present
occasion.”
“ Thou art the prince of devils ! A greater
than Satan!”
. “ Oh, shocking! Prythee, cease this diabolic
blasphemy. Flattery dulls the wit, and I have
need of all mine in the coming interview.”
MAdieu, then, my dear De Fronsac, till to­
morrow at the breaking up of the council, when
we shall learn the king's decision.”
c 3
Digitized by Google
34 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
CH APTE R X X X .
FEMALE INFLUENCE.
The council took place the next day as the King
had intimated. It consisted only of the King;
Monsieur Necker, the prime minister; and
Monsieur Du Crosne, the lieutenant of police.
When the business for which the council was
convened was settled, Louis began, not without
a certain trepidation and embarrassment in his
manner, to introduce the subject of the lettre
de cachet to his minister. He repeated the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 35
statement made to him by the Marquis on the
previous day, and insisted on the corroborative
evidence of the Duke. He finished by asking
the minister what he thought of the affiair; and
whether it did not justify the use of a lettre de
cachet.
“ Why cannot the Marquis resort to the usual
tribunals ?” said Necker, with a dissatisfied air.
“ The very question I put myself,” sqid the
King, “ but it seems that the Marquis despairs
of obtaining justice from the lawyers. And
then he cannot bear to expose his domestic
misery to the eyes of the public.”
“ Would such arguments as these,” said
Necker, “ be for a moment listened to if urged
on the behalf of the accused party ? Why then
should they be available to the prosecutor ?”
u Recollect, Monsieur,” said the King, who
seemed somewhat scandalized at the observation,
Digitized by Google
3 6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
“ that the Marquis is a person of ancient family,
high rank, and large property !”
“ The better reason,” answered Necker, with
a severe air, “ since society has conferred upon
him such immense advantages, that he should
abstain from grasping at unjust and exclusive
privileges. Why should his ex-parte statements
be received and acted upon like attested evi­
dence ? Why should he, more than any other
man in France, be permitted to predude his
opponent from defence and reply V
“ I think,” said the King, “ you cannot doubt
the lady’s misconduct, if you believe the Duke’s
testimony, and I cannot conceive him capable
of peijury. If then you consider the Mar­
chioness guilty, where is the hardship or injus­
tice in confining her for a moderate period?
What harm can come of it ? A mild imprison­
ment will compel her to discontinue her iniqui-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 87
toils practices, and give her leisure to repent
her past misdeeds. It is the first time, too, the
Marquis ever asked a favour; and I feel sure I
shall confer a vast obligation on him by grant­
ing his request.”
“ Is it the object of your Majesty’s policy,”
continued Necker with an austere expression,
“ to conciliate the affections of a few coronetted
favourites, or to promote the general happiness
and prosperity of the millions over whom you
reign V
“ I call God to witness!” exclaimed Louis
with great emotion, “ that it has ever been the
chief and dearest wish of my heart to make my
subjects happy. Never did fond father pray for
the success of an only son, with more eagerness,
than I have besought Heaven to pour its
choicest blessings on my people.”
w I believe you, Sire,” said the minister,
Digitized by Google
88 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
touched at the manifest sincerity of his monarch.
“ In common with all France, I do ample jus­
tice to the excellence of your intentions, and
the soundness of your judgement. Happy
would it be for this country, if your Majesty
could always be persuaded to follow such admi­
rable guides, and to turn a deaf ear to the
suggestions of perfidious advisers, whose rank,
and not their merit, gives them access to your
presence.”
“ In short, Monsieur,” said the King twid­
dling about the button of his coat in a most
painful state of irresolution, “ you would advise
me not to issue this lettre de cachet.”
“ Such undoubtedly is the advice,” said
Necker, “ which I feel it my duty to tender to
your Majesty. You asked just now, Sire, what
harm could result to society from the imprison­
ment of a guilty woman. I ask you in return,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. S9
what loss does society sustain by the murder of
an unworthy individual ? No direct injury, I
admit, accrues in either case, but the sense of
insecurity, which, as a consequence ofsuch acts,is
engendered in the public mind, is the worst both
of social and political evils. This time an irre­
sponsible uncontrollable power has stricken
down guilt; the next time it may prostrate in­
nocence. Any violation of the established laws,
on which depends the safety of men’s lives and
properties is bad; but their infraction by the
executive power, is far more dangerous than
their infringement by a criminal, and produces
a train of ever extending evils, the remote con­
sequences of which, it is almost beyond the
human understanding either to estimate ojr
trace.”
The King paused awhile, and then said with
firmness, “ my conscience tells me that what
Digitized by Google J
40 COUNT CAGLIOSTEO :
you say is right* A h ! Monsieur, you ought
never to leave my side, for the moment you are
out of sight, I am overpersuaded by other peo­
ple. However, I will profit by your advice on
this occasion, and not allow the Marquis de
Montolieu to shut up his wife.”
At this moment, the door of the chamber
opened, and Marie Antoinette, unaccompanied
by a single attendant, made her appearance.
She was attired in a costume, which, however
well it might be calculated to set off her face
and figure, was unsuited, from its extreme plain­
ness to a Queen of France. She advanced
with smiling confidence to her husband, and
said, “ Forgive me this intrusion, Sire, but you
will recollect that we expect the pleasure of
your company at our fete to day. I would have
sent you a note, but De Dreux Br6z6 declared,
that he should expect the roof of the palace to
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 41
fall in after such a breach of etiquette, as dis­
patching a message to you while engaged at
council. So finding nobody to commit the
atrocity of disturbing you with a note, I was
forced to be my own messenger.”
Louis, who was somewhat wearied and ex-
hausted with the schooling which Necker had
inflicted on him, looked refreshed at the sight
of his wife, and bade her sit down.
“ We have just been considering, madame,”
said he, “ whether we ought to shut up a lady,
who has been playing some very naughty
pranks.”
Monsieur Necker seemed dreadfully annoyed
at the prospect of discussing the matter with
this fresh counsellor.
“ And what was the result of your decision 7 *
asked the Queen.
wWhy, Monsieur Necker,” answered Louis,
Digitized by Google
4 3 COUNT CAGL108TRO;
“ has read me a very long lecture on the mis­
chief arising from the employment of lettres de
cachet, to every word of which 1 heartily sub­
scribe.”
“ May 1 venture to enquire the culprit’s
name ?” said the Queen.
“ The Marchioness de Montolieu, madame,”
replied Necker, in a voice by which he meant to
deprecate all farther discussion.”
“ Indeed,” cried the Queen, “ I am ac­
quainted with her case; and very Ql I think she
has behaved. Such conduct ought not to pass
unpunished.”
“ You see the manner,” said the King turn­
ing to Necker, “ in which the Marchioness is
judged by her own sex.”
“ I have endeavoured,” said Necker, with a
sigh of weariness, “ to demonstrate that the
Marchioness’s guilt or innocence is not the real
subject for your Majesty’s consideration.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 48
“ I suppose,” observed the Queen, c
<I ought
to be silent in so learned a presence: but it
does appear to my simple apprehension, that the
guilt or innocence of a culprit* is a point that
merits some attention from his judges.”
“ Well, I begin to think so too,” said the
simple-minded King.
Monsieur Du Crosne, the lieutenant of
police, had not hitherto spoken. He had
watched with anxious attention the struggle
between the royal inclinations and the ministe­
rial reasonings. For a moment the latter pre­
ponderated ; and he determined to suppress the
information which he was otherwise prepared to
have brought forward. Now a fresh weight
was thrown into the scale, and seeing that the
abstract arguments of the minister began to
kick the beam against the superficial petulance
of the Queen, he hastened, like a true minister
Digitized by Google
44 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
of police, to support the cause of arbitrary
power.
“ The name of this Marchioness de Monto-
lieu is inscribed on my list of suspicious persons;
I have evidence to prove that not many months
ago she paid a visit, in company with a hair­
brained Count, named D’Ostalis, to no less a
personage than the notorious Count Cagliostro.”
“ What!” said the Queen, turning pale with
rage, “ does that arch-traitor still pollute France
with his presence? I thought that he was
banished.”
“ True, Madam,” replied Du Crosne, “ but
such is his audacity, that he has dared to return
to the scene of his crimes. And such, unfortu­
nately, is his pernicious dexterity, that he has
contrived to elude the most vigilant researches
of the police.”
It is well known that Marie Antoinette was
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 45
deeply wounded by the suspicions which had
been thrown on her character by the famous
affair of the necklace; and that her hatred and
desire for vengeance on all connected with that
conspiracy almost amounted to phrenzy.
“ Do you mean to say,” said she, with the
utmost excitement, “ that this woman — the
Marchioness, visited that execrable charlatan
Cagliostro ?”
“ Even so,” answered Du Crosne. “ And it
would now appear by the statement made
by her companion, and the excessive emotion
which she manifested on that occasion, that
some near and intimate connexion must exist
between Madame de Montolieu and that too
celebrated adventurer.”
“ And now,” said Marie Antoinette, im­
petuously addressing herself to her husband,
“ can you hesitate to exercise your royal autho-
Digitized by Google
46 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
rity in bringing an odious criminal to condign
punishment ? This Marchioness— this disgrace
to her high rank— is a friend and associate of
Cagliostro, and very possibly of that female
demon La Motte, and the other conspirators in
the necklace affair.”
“ This is mere conjecture and assumption/’
calmly observed Necker to the King. “ Hold­
ing communication with a suspected person is
not a crime by law; and your Majesty is bound
to administer strict legal justice to the meanest
peasant that owns your sway.”
“ That is very true,” said the King.
“ Good,” interrupted the Queen. “ I freely
admit that justice is due to the meanest peasant;
how much more then is it the right of the first
subject of the realm ? I— a Queen of France
— the wife, daughter, and sister of kings— have
been subjected to injuries and insults, that the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 47
lowest of my sex could not have borne in patience.
And what was the redress which the parliament
of Paris afforded me ? I appeal to you, Sire,
who are acquainted with my sufferings on that
occasion— who remember the days and nights
that I passed in agonies, that a beggar might
have pitied. Can you be surprised, that I
should hold the authors of my misery in detes­
tation ?— that I should desire their punishment;
and that when they or their acquaintance are
proved guilty of other crimes, that I should
deem them the last persons on earth towards
whom your Majesty’s prerogative of mercy can
be with propriety exercised ?”
“ Be composed, Madam,'’ said the King, who
was obviously much affected by the pain, which
the affair of the necklace had inflicted on his
wife. “ Be composed, I will issue this lettre de
cachet, since you take it so much to heart.”
Digitized by Google
48 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO S
But the minister was not formed of such
flexible materials as his master. He remained
firm and uncompromising, and seemed deter*
mined not to yield the question.
“ Sire,” said he, addressing himself more
particularly to Louis, “ when you did me the
honour to appoint me to the responsible situa­
tion which I now hold, I only accepted office
on certain terms, without which, I felt that all
my efforts for the benefit of my country, and
for the advancement of your Majesty’s true
honour and glory, would be baffledand attended
with no results. One of the most important
of these stipulations, was the virtual abolition
of lettres de cachet during the period of my
ministry. Your Majesty will pardon me, if I
consider your disregard of this condition as an
intimation that you have no farther occasion
for my services.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 4 9
The King looked frightened and perplexed,
but said nothing.
“ You will still remain King of France, Sir,”
said the Queen, with a disdainful smile, “ even
when Monsieur Necker shall have deprived us
of his valuable assistance. You will have the
right to govern France according to the ancient
law and custom of the realm. Tell me not of
discontent and rebellion. Let your enemies
but dare to show themselves; and then do you
Sir, show yourself at the head of your faithful
guards. Believe me, your foes, if the pitiful
wretches deserve that term, will disappear like
dew before the morning sun.”
In the energy of her feelings, she waved her
arm, and clenched her hand, as though she
actually grasped the sword to which she recom­
mended the appeal. The speech, however, did
not produce its intended effect on the King’s
VOL. II. ' D
Digitized by Google
5 0 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO 5
mind. He was startled by the Queen's allusion
to the necessity of quelling insubordination by
military force; and said with an air of disappro­
bation—
“ Gently, Madam, gently— I will spill no
blood myself, nor permit it to be shed by others
in my name. It shall never be said that Louis
the Sixteenth introduced the curse of civil war
into this unhappy country, for whose punish­
ment he was born a King.”
“ Am I to understand,” coldly inquired
Necker, “ that your Majesty accepts my resig­
nation ?”
The expression of Louis indicated the most
pitiful irresolution and perplexity. He paused
for a moment or two.
“ I wish, Monsieur Necker, that / had the
power, like you, of resigning my office. God
knows, how willingly I would transfer the scep-
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 51
tre into any hands, that were better fitted to
wield it than my own.”
“ You may do worse than resign your sceptre,”
impetuously exclaimed the Queen, “ you may
surrender every iota of power, and still find,
that you are unable to rid yourself of the dan­
ger and responsibility of the kingly office.”
“ Why was I born a king ?” said the distressed
monarch; “ 1 strive to please all parties; and
I succeed with none. Monsieur Necker, you see
how the case stands. Let me for once be a
King. I ask of you as a personal favour, to
countersign this much disputed lettre de cachet.
It is the first request of the sort I have ever
made to you. It shall be the last.”
Necker paused in deep thought for some
moments. At last he replied, shaking his head
with a melancholy air.
“ Sire, we shall both fall victims to the same
d 2
Digitized by Google
52 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
weakness—the inability to say u no” in the
right place : but it is impossible to refuse a
request couched in such terms, as your Majesty
has deigned to use.”
The Lieutenant of Police produced the lettre
de cachet, and handed it to Necker, who though
the expression of his countenance still indicated
his extreme repugnance to the step, slowly and
reluctantly countersigned the instrument. Such
were the means by which the last lettre de
cachet ever issued in France, was obtained !
But it is easier to abolish names than things.
The old monarchical forms of tyranny were
indeed swept away, but the power and practice
of arbitrary imprisonment long continued to
desecrate France.
The council broke up; the Queen’s face was
brightened with triumph. The Lieutenant
looked as proud and as pleased, as a cat who
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 5 3
has just caught a mouse. But the King and
his minister left the closet with vexed and dis­
satisfied countenances.
When we consider the superfluous sensibility
which the educated European exhibits to the
most trivial and insignificant affronts— the tena­
city with which he recollects, and the excessive
zeal and fury with which he seeks revenge ; it
must seem strange, that so many millions of
such individuals, should tamely endure the
sway of a monarch who possesses the fearful
prerogative of arbitrary imprisonment. The
chivalrous, high-spirited noblesse of France,
who for a look— a word— a gesture—were will­
ing to take another’s life, or to peril their own
in mortal combat, walked to a prison, at the
sight of a lettre de cachet, as silently and as
submissively, as a well beaten hound slinks to
its kennel. None ever thought of resistance,
Digitized by Google
5 4 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
and yet the process was about as odious and
illegal, as could well be conceived. Persons
totally unconscious of any legal offence, and
apprehending no accusation, were suddenly
shown the despotic mandate, and forthwith con­
ducted to a state prison. Here they remained
for an indefinite period of time, varying from a
few months to many years, secluded from com­
munication with their friends, and deprived of
all control over their property. Many times
they were not informed of their real or imagi­
nary offence, or even the name of their accuser,
and could only hazard remote conjectures as to
the cause of their detention. No wonder, then,
that a man like Necker, naturally inclined to
liberal politics, and anxious to acquire popu­
larity with the public, should be strongly
opposed to a practice, so utterly subversive of
all personal liberty and security. In fact, the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 55
prime minister himself was not exempt from
the operation of these fatal mandates, and
might one day find himself transformed from
the agent of oppression into its victim.
Digitized by Google
50 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
CH APTER X X X I.
THE BASTILLE.
F or two or three days after the departure of
the Marquis and his friend, the Marchioness
and her daughter were filled with the greatest
anxiety. Every moment they expected that
the dire effects of the Duke’s anger and disap­
pointment would burst upon them from some
unforeseen quarter; and they awaited in ner­
vous trepidation the coming blow. A week
elapsed, and nothing happened. The courage of
the Marchioness began to revive; and she
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 57
thought that the storm had passed over. “ Per­
haps, after all,” observed she, “ the Duke had
more of human feeling than I gave him credit
for; perhaps he affected obduracy, in hope to
bend me to his will, and had no serious inten­
tion of executing his threats.”
Antonia did not participate in her mother’s
confidence. Her knowledge of De Fronsac’s
character forbade her to hope that he would
forbear his vengeance.
“ The hour of danger,” said she, mournfully,
“ is come, but not gone. I know our enemy
well. He is a complete egotist, utterly inacces­
sible to any sense of pity or compunction,
brooking no disappointment, and pursuing his
selfish schemes of pleasure with reckless and
remorseless tenacity. I dread that he is now
laying the mine which he will soon spring to
our destruction.”
d 3
Digitized byGoogle
5 8 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
" Another week elapsed without any realiza-
tion of their fears; but, alas ! on the morning
of the fifteenth day after the departure of the
Marquis, an exempt of the police, accompanied
by a small party of armed men, arrived at the
chateau. With the hard indifference charac­
teristic of all the lower functionaries of govern­
ment, they briefly showed the unhappy Mar­
chioness and her daughter the lettre de cachet,
and peremptorily ordered them to be ready
within one hour to commence a journey to
Paris. Such necessaries only as they could
collect and pack up within that short period
were they allowed to take with them. They
asked to what prison they were about to be con­
signed, but received the callous reply, that they
would find that out, when they arrived at their
journey’s end.
The Marchioness was utterly stunned by the
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 59
calamity; it exceeded her worst anticipations.
She had prepared herself for the bitterest re­
proaches on the part of her husband, in the
event of the Duke’s revealing the secret. Nor
had she expected that he would content himself
with angry words. She had even prepared
herself for separation and social disgrace. She
had even dared to picture herself an exile from
Paris and the fashionable world, living in some
obscure corner in the country, deprived of all
resources and amusements except the company of
Antonia; and the scene, melancholy as it might
seem to her gay contemporaries, was not with­
out its peculiar charm for her. But to be hur­
ried away to prison by brute force, without an
interview with those who decided on her fate;
without an opportunity of explaining or pallia­
ting her conduct, was more than she could
endure. The actual severity of the blow had
Digitized byGoogle
60 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
outrun her wildest fears. The idea, too, that
Antonia, her daughter, to enjoy whose society,
to promote whose happiness, had been the
sole object of her rash plans and intrigues, had
fallen a victim to her policy, and was to be con­
signed to the same living tomb as herself, gave
the finishing blow to her misery. Her fortitude
sunk under this last consummation of distress,
and she wept during the first part of her journey
in unrestrained weakness. Antonia bore the
misfortune with more firmness. This was not
the first time she had tasted suffering. She was
accustomed to reverses. Besides, she had by
no means recovered her separation from Cleve­
land. Her heart had been utterly dried up
and seared by this great grief; and it sustained
all subsequent blows with diminished sensibility,
if notwith increased courage. Entirely forgetting
her own share of the calamity, she endeavoured,
Digitized byv ^ o o Q l e
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 61
by the tenderest exhortations, to moderate the
Marchioness’s excess of grief.
“ Composeyourself—recollectyourself, dearest
mother,” said Antonia, embracing the weeping
lady with the warmest affection, “ and do not
give way in this terrible manner to sorrow,—
pray be composed.”
“ Avoid me— hate me— curse me,” shrieked
the Marchioness, with frantic vehemence; “ I
am your worst enemy— your bitterest foe—
the cause of all your misfortunes. I disgraced
you even at your birth, and ever since that
moment have persisted in the same course of
injury and ruin.”
“ Forbear these dreadful expressions, for my
sake— for your own,” said Antonia, “ they fill
me with horror. Misfortune may defeat the
the kindest intentions, but cannot in a generous
Jftind impair the sensations of gratitude which
Digitized by
62 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
they excited. Had all your plans for my benefit
been realized, I could not have loved you, when
surrounded with fashion and splendour, with
half the truth and fondness that I do now.”
“ Alas!” exclaimed the Marchioness, in a
tone of despair, “ I have left you nothing else
to love but myself.”
“ Oh do not talk in this strain ! if you love
me, be calmer.”
It was not until after much effort, and many
severe struggles, that Madame de Montolieu
could assume even a tolerable degree of compo­
sure. And still her eyes were involuntarily
filled with tears; and still, from time to time,
the rising throbs shook her breast with convul­
sive violence.
But both had one consolation under their
afflictions— the lively and tender affection which
subsisted between them. Each, imbued with
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 68
this delicious sentiment, felt more concerned for
her companion’s suffering than her own; and
each, engaged in the generous task ofconsolation,
lost to a great extent the sense of personal
sorrow. If the sympathy of friendship be
essential to the enjoyment of prosperity,— if
pleasure itself grow wearisome, unless it be
shared with others— how infinitely precious does
the sentiment of attachment become in the dark
hour of adversity; when all have left us—when
the good-natured world are unanimously satisfied
that we have deserved onr misfortunes, and
mildly acquiesce in the propriety of our ruin—
how sweet to find one to whom our calamities
only render us an object of greater tenderness
— one, who scorning to judge us by the vulgar
test of success, gives us credit for all we had in­
tended, but were prevented by adverse circum­
stances from executing. But this is not all.
Digitized by Google
64 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Look on the other side of the picture. The
operation of affection is like that of mercy,
twice blessed. The man who is consoled and
relieved by the assistance of a friend, does not
experience half the pleasure in receiving the
latter’s benefits, however weighty they may be,
which his generous ally feels in conferring them.
What luxury can compare with the exquisite
sense of satisfaction and exultation, which per­
vades the whole mind, after we have achieved a
sacrifice for a friend? What spectacle so
touches and excites the feelings as the sight of
a desponding friend reviving under our cheering
and encouragement ? In fact there is scarcely
a feeling incident to human nature which returns
a greater harvest of pleasure, than a strong
sense of attachment to a worthy object. And
yet this sentiment— so pure— so beautiful— so
pleasurable— so accessible to all— so admirable
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 65
a corrective to the natural egotism ofeven the best
characters,— gently rousing and enlisting in its
behalf all the kindlier feelings of humanity,
this sentiment, which diminishes every woe by
sharing it, and doubles every joy by sympathy,
how little is it cultivated by mankind ! “ Un­
common,” says Rochefoucault, u as true love is,
it is not so uncommon as friendship.” Even
when inspired by all the passion and poetry of
youth, the sentiment of attachment appears
rare, and limited in its duration; and between
individuals of an advanced age, or of the same
sex, seems scarcely to have any existence at all.
Towards evening they arrived at Paris, and
when the vehicle entered the Rue de St. An­
toine, the Marchioness conjectured that the
place of their destination was the Bastille. Nor
was she deceived. The carriage halted at the
avenue; the exempt spoke to the sentinel. The
Digitized by Google
66 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
first drawbridge was lowered; the carriage
passed over, and proceeded to the Governor’s
house, which was situated outside the ditch that
surrounded the fortress itself The Major of
the Bastille and the King’s Lieutenant stood at
the door, received the prisoners when they
alighted from their carriage, and escorted them
up stairs, accompanied by the exempt. ' Agi­
tated and trembling, they entered a room,
where M. De Launey, the Governor, was sitting
at a table with divers huge registers before him.
He had a disagreeable expression of severity,
which was not redeemed or softened by the
silly air of self-importance which sat upon his
face. His physiognomy tallied with the general
opinion which prevailed in society respecting
his character. It is true his situation was not
likely to prepossess the public in his favour;
but De Launey was unpopular, even for a
Digitized by Google
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 67
Governor of the Bastille. Vague rumours were
afloat, for nothing certain or precise was known
of this mysterious prison,— of the cruelty and
rigour with which he treated his prisoners. His
overweening pride and folly were proved by
better evidence— his own behaviour in society,
where he gave general offence by his absurd
pretensions to political importance and influence.
The Governor looked up with an awful frown
from his registers as the party entered the
room.
“ Oho P* said he to the exempt, “ whom
have you brought us here, Monsieur Dela-
vigne ?— women, eh ?”
“ Two ladies, Monseigneur,” replied the
exempt.
“ Humph !” we shall ascertain that fact offi­
cially,” said the Governor; “ give us the lettre
de cachet.”
Digitized by Google
68 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
The exempt handed the fatal instrument to
De Launey.
“ Oho F said the latter, “ these letters shall
authorize you— um— um— Erminia Laura, Mar­
chioness de Montolieu, nee D’Albemonte, and
Antonia Von Oberfeldt, otherwise Antonia di
Volterra, falsely calling herself the niece of the
said Marchioness— oh ! oh !— You want your
receipt, I suppose, Monsieur Delavigne?—
good-----
The Governor then indorsed the lettre de
cachet, with an acknowledgment that the
within-named persons had been delivered into
his custody, and returned it to the exempt, to
whom it served as a proof that he had dis­
charged his duty. Having received this testi­
monial, he immediately took his leave.
“ So, so,” resumed the Governor, looking
over the register, “ I see that this young lady is
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 6 9
described as falsely calling herself your niece,
Madame la Marquise. You would do well to
inform me who she really is, and what is the
nature of your connexion with her.”
The superintendents of the Bastille were very
inquisitive about their prisoners’ secrets. Even
the turnkeys had strict orders to report to the
Governor or Major any information which they
might pick up from the captives they attended.
The Marchioness, whose nerves were much
shattered by grief and fatigue, burst into tears
at this painful question. Antonia, to whom
resentment at her mother’s treatment gave
courage, prevented Madame de Montolieu from
answering, and said to De Launey: “ Mon­
sieur le Gouverneur, it may be your agreeable
duty to keep us locked up in this delightful
residence, but not to ask us questions that may
tend to criminate ourselves.”
Digitized by Google
70 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
“ No, Mademoiselle,** replied the Governor,
reddening with confusion, “ but when a com­
mission is appointed to examine you, which will
doubtless be in a few weeks, I shall be present,
and shall have power of suggesting any questions
I choose to the commissioners; so that yon
will lose nothing by answering my present
queries.”
“ I do not see,” observed Antonia, with some
petulance, “ the advantage of anticipating a
penance. By your leave, Monsieur le Gouver-
neur, we will defer the evil day until its legal
and official season.”
The Governor had been so upset by the
sudden and unexpected resistance of Antonia,
that he had returned an argumentative and
even apologetic answer. A moment’s reflexion
convinced him of the feebleness of his young
opponent; and enraged at his own weakness, he
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 71
determined to frighten her by a display of his
strength and importance.
(t Let me recommend you, young lady, or
rather young woman, for I have no proofs of
your nobility, but rather the contrary, to drop
this insolent and flippant tone. I am the
Governor of the Bastille !— think of that— the
Governor of the Bastille !— and now you know
who I am, I beg you will treat me with fitting
respect.'’
“ You say,” rejoined the reckless Antonia,
“ that you are the governor of a prison, which
means in homely language a jailor; I do treat
you with fitting respect.”
“ This jesting is intolerable,” exclaimed the
Governor, in a pompous guttural tone, like an
enraged turkey-cock; “ I tell you, young woman,
that Iam the King’s representative in this place—
you smile, but I repeat it, I am the King’s
representative. What have you to say to that ?”
Digitized by Google
72 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO I
“ Nothing,” replied Antonia, “ only the cir­
cumstance shows that the King is not exempt
from the common lot of mortality, but like his
subjects liable to gross misrepresentations.”
“ This is all very fine,” said the Governor,
“ very fine indeed. Madame de Montolieu, your
chamber, while you and your companion are
inmates of the Bastille, will be Number 8, in
the Baziniere tower. Perhaps, if that young
lady had been more prudent in her language, a
pleasanter apartment might have been named.”
The Governor made a sign to his lacquey;
the latter slipped out, and returned with two
ruffianly looking turnkeys. The Major of the
Bastille then intimated to the prisoners, but in
a much more civil manner thair his superior,
that they must follow him to their destined
chamber. The Major led the way, and the
two turnkeys followed the prisoners. They
crossed the court in front of the Governor’s
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 73
house, and came to the second drawbridge.
The word was given, and the bridge lowered.
A circumstance here occurred which impressed
upon the prisoners the frightful secrecy charac­
teristic of the usages of the Bastille. The senti­
nels, as the party passed by them, covered their
faces with their hats, so that they might not be
acquainted with the personal appearance of any
of the prisoners confined in the fort.
After traversing many dark and winding
passages, they came to a circular flight of stairs.
Proceeding upwards, they reached the allotted
apartment. One of the turnkeys opened the
door. The Governor had threatened them
with a bad apartment, and a miserable bole it
was, for the habitation of two persons accustomed
to all the comforts and luxuries of civilized life.
The whole furniture of the room consisted of
two wretched pallets, two chairs, and a coarse
VOL. III. E
Digitized by Google
74 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
table. The walls, which were whitewashed,
were dirty, and scribbled over by former tenants.
The light of the small window was obscured
by the thick and close iron bars on its external
orifice. Having cast a hawk’s glance round the
room, the Major and his satellites left the pri­
soners to the enjoyment of this delectable
retreat.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 75
CH APTE R X X X II.
THE TEMPTER AND THE VICTIM.
At the expiration of the first month of confine­
ment, the door of the prisoners’ chamber opened
at an unusual hour; and Antonia was informed
by the turnkey that her presence was required
in the council chamber. The Marchioness
solicited permission to accompany her; but the
turnkey, who seemed quite appalled at the
audacity of the demand, declared her request to
be utterly inadmissible. Antonia inquired the
E 2
Digitized by Google
76 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
object of the summons. The turnkey replied
that it was probably to answer the interrogato­
ries of the King’s commissioner. Antonia had
no alternative but to obey. She quietly fol­
lowed the conductor into a room, situated in the
centre of the fort. On entering, she recognized,
to her inexpressible dismay, M. De Launey,
and the Duke de Fronsac. They seemed to be
disputing with each other.
" If Monsieur le Due,” said De Launey, in
an offended tone, “ absolutely insists upon my
departure, it is my duty to obey. But I may
say, without vanity, that my experience in these
matters is great. Some of the most distin­
guished men in France have thought themselves
fortunate in being able to avail themselves of
my skill and astuteness in examining the pri­
soners.”
“ Monsieur le Marquis,” returned the Duke,
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 77
in a tone of cool and civil contempt, “ I return
you many thanks for your kind offers of assist­
ance, which I do not need; and I am certain
that so obliging a personage as yourself— one so
anxious even to give what is not wanted— will
never refuse what is particularly requested—
namely, your absence from the ensuing examin­
ation.”
“ Oh! very well, Monsieur le Due; do not
think I wish to press my services on anybody;
I shall reserve them for those who have sense
enough to appreciate their value.”
With these words, he flung himself angrily
out of the room, leaving the fair prisoner alone
with the Duke.
Antonia remained transfixed with surprise,
terror, and disgust. The man whom of all
others she had most reason to detest stood before
her, eyeing her with a licentious yet scornful
Digitized by Google
78 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
smile, and affecting to be amused with her con­
sternation.
“ Good morning,” said De Fronsac to the
trembling girl; “ I took the liberty of calling on
you, as I was assured that you are now always to
be found at home. You can guess the purport
of my visit!”
“ I can, Monsieur le Due,” replied Antonia,
to whom indignation supplied courage. “ It
was to enjoy the spectacle of the sufferings
which you have caused by your malignant, and
unprovoked attack.”
“ You wrong me,” observed the Duke; “ it
forms no part of my character to commit gra­
tuitous mischief. In fact, I would not take the
trouble. It was necessary for my good pleasure,
that you should yield yourself to my wishes;
and it was to overcome the resistance which you
opposed, that I inflicted the injuries that you
call unprovoked.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 7 9
“ Yes ! unprovoked !” returned Antonia,
“ had I not as good a right to escape from one
I hated, as you had to pursue what you liked ?”
“ As good a right certainly,” said De Fronsac.
“ But know, ray fair metaphysician, that rights
in this world are mere empty words unless en­
forced by power. I was born a wolf, you are
the lamb. It is my nature to prey upon you.
No doubt you have the right to escape my fangs,
but I have the power to catch you. Are you
so impious as to murmur against the established
order of nature ? Cease your resistance, and I
will cease ray persecutions.”
“ This cold-blooded avowal of a determina­
tion to perpetrate crime, whenever you can com­
mit it with impunity, only confirms my resolve
never to yield. Persecute as you will; to the
last moment of my existence— with the last
energies of expiring strength, I will continue
to resist.”
Digitized by Google
80 COUNT CAGLI08TR0:
“ Listen to me,” said the Duke, with that
cold calm fixedness of purpose, which consti­
tuted the basis of his character, “ nay— never
turn away your eyes in disgust, for I am going
to speak the language of reason, not of passion.
Look around you. Survey these massive walls
— these triple barred outlets, which serve for
windows. Beyond them are high walls and
chevaux-de-frise— the guards— the sentinels—
and the deep fosses!— You will admit that escape
is impossible.”
“ I know not,” replied Antonia, affecting
hope where she certainly felt none. “ Stronger
forts than the Bastille have ere now been
levelled with the dust, and captives have gained
the outside of even securer dungeons than this.”
“ You wander, Antonia!” impatiently inter­
rupted the Duke, “ already confinement begins
to impair your natural understanding. The
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 81
Bastille has stood for centuries, why should it
not continue to stand for centuries more?—
True, prisoners have escaped, but compare
their number with those, that have been com­
pelled to abide their misery. What does your
chance of escape amount to ?
“ Little, perhaps,” replied Antonia; “ but
proceed, to what do your remarks tend ?”
“ Consider,” pursued De Fronsac impressively,
“ the dull monotonous torture of protracted
imprisonment. Consider, what it is to gaze in
horrid uniformity of agony, for thirty years,
upon the same walls— the same stones— the
same barred windows— the same boards— the
same strip of sky. To see no human face but
the harsh forbidding one of your jailor, repeated
day after day. To hear no human voice, but
his coarse unfeeling tones. Reflect what it is
to possess no occupation—no subject of con-
f. 3
Digitized by Google
82 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
templation, but your own pain; and to be
forced— to be driven to muse on this hatefiil
all-absorbing idea, until your faculties are either
deranged by madness, or extinguished in idioty.
Calculate and weigh the number and extent
of your painful sensations, during this long
period of slowly drawn out torment; and then
confess that the Bastille is a horrible abode.”
“ It is,” replied Antonia firmly, “ but your
chateau is a worse.”
“ Be it so,” said the Duke, “ but I do not
ask you to stay there for thirty years. Live at
my chateau for six months. At the end of
that period, you shall depart as rich as a prima-
donna, and as free as the wind, at liberty to
bestow your love and your gold upon whom
you like. Admit that you pass the whole time
in sighs and tears— I shall enjoy your grief, by
the bye, for you never look so handsome as when
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 83
in tears,— the period of probation, however
painful, will soon have passed— but your present
sufferings will cease only with your life, unless
I procure your release, which I swear only to
grant on the terms I have intimated.**
u Never!” answered Antonia, turning away—
“ Never can I overcome the just abhorrence I
feel for your conduct and character.”
/
“ I do not ask for love,” said the Duke
mildly, “ at least not such love as I dare say
you wasted on the young Englishman I was
blockhead enough to introduce to you. A
little civility and complaisance is all that is
required.”
Antonia indignantly shook her head.
“ Pause ere you reject my offer. It may not
be repeated, and deliverance dawns upon you
from no other quarter. Bethink you, were my
chateau a hell, and I blacker than Satan, free-
Digitized by Google
84 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
dom for the rest of your life is cheaply bought
by six months1 companionship with me.”
u I can conceive no fiend worse,” answered
Antonia, “ than a bad man, who declares his
determination to indulge in every crime which
he has inclination and power to perpetrate.”
“ Be wise, and yield, ere it is too late,11 said
the Duke menacingly.
“ Should I by such means obtain also Ma­
dame de Montolieu’s deliverance ?” asked An­
tonia thoughtfully.
“ I have nothing to do with that business,11
coldly replied the Duke; “ you had better
appeal to her husband; perhaps he will release
her on the same terms. By the time you have
left me, this second labour will prove a mere
bagatelle. You remember the proverb, ‘ ’Tis
only the first step, which costs much trouble.1 ”
“ This passes endurance,” exclaimed Anto-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 85
ilia; “ spare yourself the trouble, sir, of making
any farther offers, which are as useless for your
purposes as they are insulting to my feelings.
Know that 1 would rather die, rot, go mad, or
starve piecemeal within these walls, than breathe
the air of the same place an hour together with
you.”
“ Is that your final answer ?” said the Duke.
“ It is,” replied Antonia.
De Fronsac gazed on her with a malignant
scowl for some moments, and then said, “ when
we next meet your tone will be humbled.”
With these words he slowly withdrew.
When the Duke re-issued from the Bastille,
he was plunged in a profound reverie. He
threw himself into his carriage without speaking
to his attendants, who were waiting for his
orders. So deep was his abstraction, that the
lacquey asked him two or three times where he
Digitized by Google
86 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO 2
should direct the coachman to drive to, without
receiving any answer. At length he roused
himself from his reflexions, and ordered the
carriage to proceed to the h6 tel of the Lieute­
nant-General of the Police.
De Fronsac was lucky enough to find that
much employed personage disengaged; he im­
mediately mounted to the minister’s bureau.
“ How have you sped in your mission T 9 en­
quired Monsieur Du Crosne of the Duke.
** But badly, or rather not at all,” returned
the Duke; “ not a tittle of information respectr
ing her accomplices could I extract from the
obstinate girl. I questioned and cross-ex­
amined her to no purpose. In vain I availed
myself of my previous knowledge of her habits
and disposition, and brought forward arguments
and topics which were peculiarly suited to touch
her feelings. She was inflexible.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 87
MDid you tempt her with the hope of imme­
diate release?’
“ I did,” replied De Fronsac, “ but without
effect.”
“ That is strange,” said the Lieutenant-
General of Police; “ after a month’s imprison­
ment in the Bastille, the most stubborn spirits
are generally unnerved and thrown off their
guard by the prospect of liberty.”
“ She is an extraordinary girl,” answered the
Duke musingly; " I confess myself baffled.”
“ I am afraid you are a bad commissioner
inquisitor,” said Monsieur du Crosne, laughing.
“ In truth, the trade requires some practice.
We shall not find you again volunteering to
examine another state prisoner. Come, Mon­
sieur le Due, do not look so grave; the greatest
wit could not expect to succeed in his first
essay.”
Digitized byGoogle
88 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ My failure is not the cause of my thought­
fulness,Manswered De Fronsac; “ I Was hesi­
tating, whether 1 should communicate to you
certain incidents, which have occurred to me;
but the circumstances are so trivial, that it is,
perhaps, scarcely worth while to occupy your
time by the recital.”
“ I think no time lost,” rejoined Du Crosne,
“ which is spent in listening to information.
No doubt it may sometimes mislead us— no
doubt we may sometimes go wrong in spite of
its assistance— but without it we cannot advance
a step. By all means tell me the facts— tell me
them all, if you please— even those that appear
most trifling. Straws thrown up in the air will
serve to show the wind’s course.”
“ I have been subject for some time past,”
said the Duke, “ to a species of annoyance,
petty and unimportant in itself, but occasioning
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 89
me anxiety by the remarkable mystery in which
the authors are enveloped..1
“ Of what nature is this annoyance 7 * asked
du Crosne.
“ Every day,11 continued de Fronsac, “ I am
harassed by written menaces.”
“ Do you mean,” demanded Du Crosne,
“ that you are molested by anonymous letters 7 '
Ci Occasionally,” said the Duke, “ they have
been sent by the medium of the post; but they
assume a hundred different shapes and modes of
appearance. Sometimes my eye is attracted by
a scrap of paper, which, I know not how, comes
under my hand. I take it up, and on looking
at it, find it inscribed with the usual threat.
Sometimes I see a dirty note, directed to me,
lying on my toilette table. I call my valet, and
ask him if he put it there. He denies all
knowledge of it. My curiosity is excited. I
Digitized byGoogle
90 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
open it, and read the old threat. One day I
resolutely abstained from looking at any paper
which I saw lying about. I went into my
library, and determined to fortify my mind
against any superstitious fancies by the perusal
of a philosophical work. I took down a volume
of Helvetius, and lo ! the irritating warning
was written on the margin of the first page
I glanced at. Nay, if 1 keep a letter in my
pocket for a day or two, it will sometimes
become marked in the most mysterious manner
with the same writing.”
“ Do you suspect any of your domestics?”
asked Du Crosne.
“ I dismissed several,” replied the Duke>
“ to see whether their absence would put an
end to or at least lessen the frequency of these
missives; but, finding the practice continued, I
received them back.”
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 91
“ What is the purport of these threatening
notes ?” asked Du Crosne.
w They all contain this single sentence,” re­
plied the Duke: ‘ Remember the prophecy of
Cagliostro.’ ”
Monsieur Du Crosne exhibited an expression
of surprise, which did not escape the observation
of the Duke, who quickly added, without giving
the other time to make any comment, “ you
must know, my dear Du Crosne, that some four
or five years back, when that rascal Cagliostro
was in vogue, I was foolish enough to allow the
knave to practise some of his magnetic mummery
upon me. During the sleep into which he con­
trives to throw his dupes, he persuaded a silly
bystander— an intimate friend of mine— that 1
had predicted the mode of my death. It must
be to this incident, that the present system of
annoyance refers.”
Digitized byGoogle
92 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ This is a most extraordinary story,” ob­
served Monsieur du Crosne. “ The most plau­
sible solution of the riddle that I can suggest
is, that some scoundrel— either Cagliostro or
somebody to whom he has communicated the
incident— has corrupted one of your domestics.
The difficulty is to supply an adequate motive
for the commission of such an unmeaning act of
malice. I cannot divine what object the per­
petrators could have proposed to themselves.”
“ Is Cagliostro now in France?” inquired the
Duke, with an air of the most unconscious inno­
cence. “ I thought he was banished.”
“ Ay,” said Du Crosne; “ but banished
people sometimes return, like banished thoughts,
when they are neither expected nor desired.”
“ True,” said the Duke, thoughtfully, “ most
true— too true! You know then this adven­
turer to be in France? why not apprehend
him?”
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 93
“ Believe me,” replied Du Crosne, “ I have
every possible inclination to take that step,
whenever an opportunity occurs; but I am not
assured of his presence in France; I have only
reason to suspect that he is now resident in
Paris underan assumed name, and newcharacter.
He has enlisted into the service of one, whose
ample resources and criminal intentions will find
him but too convenient a tool.”
“ Unfortunately,” said the Duke, with a
grimace, “ his employers seem to leave him a
great deal of leisure time, the benefit of which
I am now tasting. But, perhaps, you think I
attach too much importance to the circumstances
I have detailed to you; and that I need not
apprehend any serious attack, or substantial
danger ?”
“ I hope not,” replied Monsieur Du Crosne;
“ but I certainly am of opinion that the facts
Digitized byGoogle
94 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
you mention ought not to be passed over with­
out notice. With your permission, Monsieur
le Due, I will place your hotel under the
especial surveillance of the police, and direct
its agents to watch the habits and connexions of
your domestics. For I still cling to the idea,
that these tricks you speak of, could only be
executed by an inmate of your family.”
" You may be sure,” said the Duke, “ that I
shall afford your agents every facility for carry­
ing on their investigation. The annoyance
itself is trifling; but I do not relish the idea of
Cagliostro’s emissaries penetrating to my toilette
table. Adieu,' Monsieur Du Crosne; accept
my warmest thanks for the patience with which
you have heard my story, and for the prompt
measures with which you propose to abate the
nuisance."
“ No thanks, Monsieur le Due; it is my duty,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 95
no less than my inclination, to protect the lives
and happiness of all his majesty’s subjects,
especially those so eminent for their birth and
rank as yourself.”
Digitized by Google
96 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
CH APTER X X X III.
SHOULD THE FUTURE BE KNOWN ?
On leaving the Lieutenant-general, the Duke
hastened to Count D*Ostalis. The latter, to his
visitor’s extreme surprise, was sitting alone in
his library, reading.
“ Welcome, my dear Duke,” cried D’Ostalis.
“ Did you ever think to behold me enacting the
part of a solitary student ? I have been read­
ing for a good hour by the clock; and what is
more, I have been reading a metaphysical,
ethical, and moral discourse.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 97
“ I am afraid I interrupt your learned la­
bours,” said the Duke, smiling, “ I will call
some other time.”
“ Oh, no,” returned the Count, in a flourish­
ing tone; “ I am always ready to sacrifice my
own pursuits to the convenience of my friends.
In other words,” added he, laughing, “ the
book was just dropping out of my hands when
you came in.”
“ Just the result I should have apprehended,”
said the Duke, with mocking gravity, “ from
such a lengthened effort of intellectual labour.
Indeed, my dear D’Ostalis, you must beware of
these learned excesses. You will wear out
your faculties if you keep them on the stretch
for such protracted periods of time. And what
are the fruits of your profound investigation?
What have you learned V
“ The author,” replied the Count, “ has very
vol. h i. f
Digitized by Google
98 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
solemnly and formally, and with great force of
reasoning, invited me to pursue a plan, which
I find on reflection I have been unconsciously
practising all my life.”
“ What is that?” inquired the Duke.
“ To refrain from seeking to know the future,”
replied D'Ostalis. “ The chapter I read,
was on the ridiculous and pernicious desire,
which men have always manifested to pry into
futurity. It shows, and shows very well too—
only at fearful length— that if at twenty we
were cursed with a knowledge of all the misfor­
tunes we were destined to endure, in after life,
we should hang ourselves in despair.”
“ This is odd enough !” said the Duke; your
studies are singularly apropos to the subject
on which I came to talk with you.”
“ How so ?” enquired the Count. “ Explain
yourself.”
“ You remember,” replied the Duke, “ the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 9 9
mystical jugglery which you witnessed Cagliostro
perform over my body, when I was asleep on
his cursed wire sofa. He made me pronounce,
or rather appear to pronounce, some prophecy
or other. You remember, my nerves were so
shaken by the abominable drugs he had given
me, that I consented to remain in ignorance of
what had passed during my slumber. Well: I
have come to-day for the purpose of making
you reveal the whole scene to me; and, I own,
I was struck by the extraordinary coincidence
between the subject of your reading, and the
object of my visit.”
“ Extraordinary indeed!” exclaimed the
Count, who, as we have seen, was, amongst
other weaknesses, a little prone to superstition.
“ De Fronsac, this is something more than a
coincidence. Accept the incident as a warning,
and obey it as such. Beware of asking me a
f 2
Digitized by Google
100 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
single question, respecting what you uttered*
while plunged in that magic sleep on Cagliostro’s
couch.”
“ For shame! D’Oslalis,” rejoined the Duke*
smiling with ironical scorn. “ What is the use of
your sublime metaphysical and ethical investiga­
tions? What profit do you draw from profound
and abstruse studies, continued, too, with uninter-
mitting severity for such a frightful space of
time, if, after all, you are to remain as super­
stitious as a sailor, or an old woman T '
“ Ridicule proves nothing, De Fronsac,”
answered the Count, with a look of obstinate
terror.
“ Listen, then, to reason,” pursued the Duke.
“ On a thousand previous occasions, when I
have called upon you before, our thoughts were
running on dissimilar topics. On this, my
thousandth and first visit, you chance to be
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 101
reading about what I happen to be thinking of;
and you are overwhelmed with astonishment.
It is not so wonderful as throwing double-sixes
twice running with the dice. A man dreams
every night, and his visions never come true;
once in ten years his dream bears some resem­
blance to events which subsequently happen.
And lo ! that which is nothing more than an
imperfect action of the brain during sleep,
prising from a want of sufficient exercise and
fatigue during the day, is straightway considered
as a supernatural communication from higher
powers. The true wonder is, that as we dream
of the past, and as the future is only a repetition
of the past, we do not oftener prefigure forth­
coming events in our slumbers.”
“ All this is unanswerable, I admit,” said
Count D’Ostalis in a dogged tone; “ but though
silenced, I am not a whit convinced. I own I
Digitized by Google
102 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
have a strong repugnance to acquaint you with
the details of the scene you refer to. What
possible good can accrue to you from the
knowledge ?”
“ First tell me,” replied the Duke, " what
possible harm can arise from gratifying my
wishes.”
“ Hear me,” said Count D’Ostalis. u Your
words and gestures, on that occasion, were
horrible. Often have they recurred to my
mind, and never without producing a disagree­
able effect. If I, an uninterested spectator, or,
at the best, a mere fashionable friend, cannot
recollect your broken expressions without horror,
what emotions will y o u not experience, whose
fate was declared to be prefigured forth in
them ?”
“ Nothing at all,” answered the Duke with
a hardy laugh; “ for this plain reason, that I do
not believe a syllable of my sleeping murmurs.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 103
u Ay, ay,” said the Count, sagaciously nod­
ding his head; “ ’tis all very easy to feel courage
when a bright afternoon sun is streaming through
the windows, and the carriages are rattling in
the streets; and the hum of distant voices is
sounding on your ears; wait till the hour of
solitude, and stillness, and darkness comes—
wait till the pale moonlight, creeping over, the
walls of your bedroom, endues every object
with ghastly animation— then the superstitious
weakness, which you crush so easily now, will
become a giant and tyrant fear, which you can
neither endure nor drive away.”
“ A child of eight years old,” replied the
Duke, “ would appreciate the force of your
argument; but I am not afraid to be left alone
in the dark. However, since you make so many
objections to the disclosure of this unimportant
secret, I will tell my real reason for wishing to
be acquainted with it. I have lately received
Digitized by Google
104 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
threatening notices, reminding me in an omi­
nous manner of the prophecy of Cagliostro.
Now, as 1 believe, that out of ten accomplished
prophecies, nine are fulfilled by the prophet, I
should like to be aware of the nature of this
famous prediction, in order that I might guard
against its completion.”
“ This alters the case,” said the Count; “ but
for my own part, I think that precautions for
personal safety inspire so much anxiety, as to
be a worse evil, than the danger they are
intended to counteract. Better to die at once,
than always to live in the fear of death. Against
all ordinary attempts, you are as safe as another
man; and a hundred thousand guards could
not secure you from the desperation of an
individual. Again 1 say, therefore, enjoy the
present; and let the future take care of itself.”
“ My dear D'Ostalis,” replied the Duke,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 105
rather drily, “ I will admit that you have dis­
played, during this discussion, a great range of
intellectual power. At first you were philoso­
phical— then poetical and descriptive— and now
you are philosophical again. But I will not
admit that you have a right to withhold from
me a secret which concerns my personal safety;
and which, it was agreed, you should reveal
whenever I should request you.”
“ Since you ask me so pointedly,” replied
D’Ostalis, “ I shall of course make no farther
opposition. Without, then, troubling you with
a minute description of your various motions,
gestures, exclamations, and broken words, you
appeared to me to be struggling with an angry
and ferocious mob, who had stopped the
progress of your carriage. You called to your
servants to drive on ; they seemed unable to
obey. You were apparently engaged in personal
WS
Digitized by Google
106 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
conflict with the crowd, and were finally over­
powered, and cruelly torn to pieces/1
“ Excellent!” cried the Duke; “ I see the
whole plot. The Parisian populace have lately
shown many symptoms of insubordination, and
committed several outrages. This miscreant
Cagliostro no doubt intends to seize the first
opportunity of setting them on me. Everybody
will be shocked at the catastrophe. Bye and
bye the story will creep out, that Cagliostro has
for many months prophecied the exact manner
of the Duke de Fronsac's death, and the rascal
will gain a reputation unequalled since the time
of Albertus Magnus.”
Count D’Ostalis pondered for a moment, and
then said, “ Ay, but how did he cause you, when
lying asleep on the sofa, to indicate this particular
mode of destruction by your cries and gestures?
Another coincidence, eh, De Fronsac ?”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 107
“ Not at all,” replied the Duke with readi­
ness. <
f I do not believe, that he had the power
of inspiring me with any particular train of
thought, when asleep. On the contrary, I
believe that the nature of my cries, when in that
state, which was purely accidental, has subse­
quently, in connexion with late events, suggested
to him the sort of outrage with which he nowdaily
threatens me. Had I gurgled in my sleep, like a
drowning man, and talked about water, he would
then have conceived the idea of pitching me
over a bridge into the Seine.”
“ But how did he make you sleep, or dream
at all ? ’ asked D’Ostalis.”
“ I admit that feet,” said the Duke, “ to be
extraordinary, but not supernatural. Probably
the drugs, that he administered, possessed this
peculiar property.”
" And now,” resumed Count D’Ostalis, “ that
Digitized by Google
108 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
you fancy you know the quarter from which the
danger is to be expected, what course will you
take?”
“ Prepare to meet it, or rather, to guard
against it,” replied De Fronsac.
w By what means ?” asked the Count
“ Henceforth,” said the Duke, MI shall
avoid the more plebeian quarters of the city.
I shall make it a rule never to traverse the
Faubourg St. Antoine, or St. Marceau. Above
all, I shall carry weapons myself, and arm my
lacqueys and coachman from head to foot”
“ Vain precautions a ll!” exclaimed the Count,
“ if you are destined to the fate; and if you are
not, how should a hunted outlaw like Cagliostro,
unable to show his true features in the street,
and living under a fictitious name, have sufficient
influence over the people to incite them to
murder ?”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 109
“ I think it far more reasonable,” replied the
Duke, “ to ascribe to this man the greatest
natural means and resources, than to allow him
the smallest supernatural power. I have got
what I wanted, and I am obliged to you for
your information. Now let us change the
subject. Shall you be at the Opera this
evening ?'
“ I think so.”
MI shall meet you there. A u r e v a ir till
then 1” and the Duke somewhat abruptly took
his leave.
Digitized by Google
no COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
CH APTER X X X IV .
THE CONSEQUENCE OF HANGING OVER A BRIDGE.
How often, in matters of feeling, the simple
instincts of the heart, guide us with a wisdom,
which the most refined deductions of reason and
experience cannot surpass. If Antonia had
summoned to her assistance the world’s most
hoary and subtle veterans, and demanded of
them a remedy for waning love, could they have
suggested a more politic and efficacious course,
than separation. Complaints and remonstrances
irritate, and only accelerate, the catastrophe
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. I l l
which they deprecate. Increased attentions
weary, or are felt as disguised reproaches. The
only true cure for declining passion, is absence.
It is a specific. No other medicine in the
world has the least effect; and if it fails, torture
yourself no more with remedies; it is clear that
the neck of your passion is hopelessly broken.
No expedient could have been better. From
the peculiar nature of Cleveland’s character,
whilst she lived with him, he compared her with
the unattainable standard of his own imagina­
tion. When she was gone, he judged her more
fairly, by others who still remained, and began
to appreciate her immense superiority to the
rest of her sex. “ Out of sight, out of mind,”
is an aphorism, which may be true, when ap­
plied to the vulgar herd: but the imaginative
man never knows the full extent of his love,
until he is separated from his mistress. It is
Digitized by Google
112 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
then that his natural susceptibility to the beau­
tiful, exhausted and sated by too frequent and
too familiar contemplation of the object of
admiration, begins to revive. It is then that
she rises on his memory, in all her original
loveliness, decked in every charm both of mind
and body, while the few slight blemishes, inci­
dent to the most perfect of the human race,
which would sometimes intrude themselves on
his notice, when they were daily exhibited td
his view, become invisible in the distance. It
would be attributingtoo much to the pleasures of
imagination, which arerather intended to throwa
grace and lustre over life, than to constitute its
substantial happiness, if we asserted that Cleve­
land did not suffer by Antonia's absence. On
the contrary, he felt it deeply, and would have
purchased her reappearanceat any price. But he
had aconsolation— the indulgence of hismemory.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 118
His grief at her loss was not all bitterness,
but mingled with sweet, and, perhaps, exagge­
rated reminiscences of the delicious moments he
had spent in her society. At all events, he no
longer experienced the miserable vacuity of
heart and soul, under which he laboured before
his acquaintance with Antonia. He had now
both a wish and a hope: The wish to see once
more that loved and fairy form— once more to
hear that thrilling voice— once more to exchange
words with her, and read his answer in the
beautiful and eloquent play of her expressive
features: The hope— that could he once achieve
an interview with her, he should soon be able to
induce a resumption of their former ties. A
flattering conviction lurked at the bottom of his
heart, that he should not be allowed to sue
in vain.
Like all deserted lovers, Cleveland became
Digitized by Google
114 COUNT CAGLIOSTEO :
much addicted to solitary walks. He was wont
to ramble through the streets with a slow step
and occupied air, absorbed in his own thoughts,
and utterly unconscious of the busy crowds
who passed by. Looking up from one of these
fits of abstraction, he started. Chance had led
his unguided footsteps to the Pont Neuf, the
memorable bridge where he had first met Anto­
nia. With what undefinable and tumultuous
feelings did he gaze upon its stony structure!
He twice paced its pavement from one end to
the other. He placed himself on the very spot,
where he had caught Antonia, as she was about
to take the fatal leap. He leaned over the
balustrade, and contemplated the dark and
rapid current beneath. Suddenly he was
aroused from his reverie, by what seemed the
voice of a young female, speaking in low and
whispering tones. The sound seemed to come
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 115
from under the bridge yet he was aware, that as
few boats were used on tlia Seine, they could
not proceed from thence. He turned sharply
round, expecting to find the person who had
uttered them at his side. But no human being
was near, with the exception of a shabby,
haggard artizan, who, at some yards distance,
seemed engaged like himself in hanging over
the bridge, and counting the ripples on the
river.
Cleveland attributed the sound to fancy, and
relapsed into his former contemplative mood.
Again the voice reached his ear. This time he
could not be mistaken. The accents were
clearer. He could even distinguish the words.
He listened with intense attention.
" You regret Antonia”— said the voice, “ It
would be wiser to regain her. You pass your
days in cherishing her image, and putting up
Digitized by Google
116 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
vows for her happiness. It would be better to
spend your time, and exercise your imagination,
in devising means to rescue her from the Bas­
tille”
Here his astonishment and curiosity had
mounted to such a pitch, that he could not help
turning round to look at his neighbour, to
ascertain, if he either heard the voice, or was
concerned in producing it. The man was still
gazing on the river in idle contemplation. His
lips did not move, yet Cleveland still heard the
mysterious voice whispering as before, though
he could not distinguish the words, except when
his face was turned towards the river.
Cleveland was puzzled and annoyed. Was
he dreaming in broad daylight? Were his
senses wandering ? He grasped the parapet of
the bridge, as if to assure himself of its reality.
A superstitious feeling began to creep over his
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 117
mind. He thought of the mysterious and
warning voices recorded in ancient annals—
“ The airy tongues that syllable men's names.**
Were such as these now buzzing in his ear, or
was he the dupe of human imposture? Above
all, come the voice whence it would, was its
information correct?
He resumed his listening attitude. Again
the soft tones of the unknown speaker fell upon
his ear.
“ You are free,” it said, “ to gaze upon the
sky, and fancy every fleecy cloud an island of
the blest, floating on its blue ethereal ocean—
a fit residence for yourself and Antonia. But
the object of all these unavailing, though ro­
mantic ideas, languishes in prison, and sees
only the same narrow strip, which pours itp
melancholy light through the grating of her
cell.”
Digitized by Google
118 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
“ Who are you ? Where are you ?” said Cleve-
land, with more agitation in his manner, than
he would have liked a witness to have beheld.
“ I am one, who knows both you and Antonia,
better than you know either me or yourselves.
As to my situation, I am at your side.”
Cleveland started, and looked towards his
elbow. Nobody was there.
The voice seemed to laugh at his credulity.
“ Why do you thus mock me ?” asked Cleve­
land, angrily.
“ Partly for your own benefit— partly for my
own amusement. A forsaken lover is such a
fine subject for ventriloquism, that it is impossi­
ble to resist the temptation.”
The secret of the whole trick immediately
flashed upon Cleveland. His shabby-looking
neighbour, was a ventriloquist. His first sen­
sation was a sentiment of anger, that a stranger
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 1 9
whose rank in society was so inferior to his own,
should venture to play with his most delicate
feelings; but his anxiety and curiosity respect­
ing Antonia's fate, speedily suppressed his re­
sentment. He well knew that no correct infor­
mation is ever gained by rage; and he deter­
mined to examine the ventriloquist by every
possible means, until he could ascertain, whether
the assertions which the latter made respecting
Antonia’s present situation, were founded on
truth, or were mere random conjectures which
he had thrown out at a venture. He approached
the individual— pulled out his purse, and said—
“ My good friend, I am sorry to see an artist
of such distinguished power in your present
garb. Your talent for ventriloquism will be
better appreciated, when you are gayer clad.
Take these pieces of gold,” added Cleveland,
putting into the stranger’s hand five louis-d'or,
Digitized byGoogle
120 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ Provide yourself with a regular place of exhi­
bition. As much more will be at your service,
when you shall have answered two or three
litde questions, which I will take the liberty to
put to you.”
“ I observe,” replied the other smiling, and
balancing the coin in his palm, “ that whenever
milord Cleveland makes the smallest request,
he always scatters about his money with a very
reprehensible prodigality. Such profusion in­
dicates on his own part a very unphilosophical
contempt for the precious article, and shows,
besides, that he has the worst possible opinion
of his fellow-creatures.”
“ Nay,” replied Cleveland, “ if your feelings
are so outraged, I will take back the money,
and you can give your information gratis.”
“ No,” said the ventriloquist, coolly depositing
the money in his pouch; “ my formal rejection
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 121
of such a trifling sum might be misconstrued
into a vulgar and ostentatious display of disin­
terestedness. Besides, the best correction of
the practice I complain of, is for the insulted
party to observe an uniform rule of taking
whatever is offered.”
“ I believe so, too,” replied Cleveland; “ and
now, my friend, after thanking you for the
moral lesson I have just received, allow me to
ask my conscientious monitor, where he first
formed my acquaintance, and who apprized him,
that I took such a deep interest in the lady
whose Christian name he has just mentioned ?”
“ This is not the first time I have spoken to
you in the tone of an equal,” boldly answered
the ventriloquist. “ Did you never supwithme ?”
“ Never, I am certain,” rejoined Cleveland,
smiling; “ I admit I may have kept company
with rogues, but they were always well-dressed
vo l. h i. o
Digitized byGoogle
122 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
villains. Besides, King George has not a better
memory for faces than I have, and I cannot
recollect your features."
4
4Never mind,” said the ventriloquist, 4
4obli­
vion is the deserved fate of a badly-dressed
villain. But mark my words, a day is fast
coming, when the gayest attired nobleman in
Paris will envy the security conferred upon me
by this ragged and dirty blouse.”
4
4 Very likely,” replied Cleveland drily ; 4
4in
the mean time, while your prophecy is fulfilling,
will you condescend to answer the question I
have put to you ?”
4
4A bridge on the Seine,” said the ventrilo­
quist, 4
4when the wind is blowing from the
north-east, is a bad locality for long explana­
tions.”
4
4It is my own fault,” returned Cleveland,
4
4 I chose the place.”
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 128
“ There spoke the true aristocrat,” cried the
other, with a bitter laugh. “ The rich milord
Cleveland chooses to endure the cold,— therefore
the journeyman mechanic must not pretend to
any feelings;—velvet and satin, for want of other
idleness, voluntarily expose themselves to the
inclemency of the elements, therefore frieze
jacket must not presume to exercise his common
sense.”
“ You are severe,” said Cleveland, who was
determined not to be offended; “ but I assumed,
contrary to what appears to be the case, that the
inconvenience, which seemed trifling even to
me, would be entirely disregarded by you. But
was not the inference at least probable, from the
superior tenderness of my education and nur­
ture ?”
“ Humph!” rejoined the ventriloquist, “ your
superior education is hardly a sufficient reason
o 2
Digitized byGoogle
124 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
for following your footsteps. You might choose
to jump from this bridge, instead of merely
standing on it, on a gusty day; and for no better
reason than because fortune had so loaded you
with her favours, that you had nothing left to
wish for ; but I am not bound to imitate you.”
Convinced by this allusion to an occurrence,
the knowledge of which was confined to himself
and Antonia, that this singular individual must
be in some manner intimately acquainted with
his lost mistress, Cleveland felt a redoubled de­
sire to question him at farther length.
“ Let us then take shelter in the streets,
since the present place does not suit you.”
4
4Horror of horrors!” exclaimed the other,
who appeared to enjoy the turn the conversation
took. 4
4Oh, violation of all social decorum !
What! exhibit wealth seeking the company of
poverty !— One of the privileged class walking
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 125
arm in arm with one of the people !— monstrous!
The phenomenon is more extraordinary than the
lion lying down with the kid, or the wolf with
the lamb. The spectacle will turn the heads of
the good Parisians. They will think it prog­
nosticates the advent of a new Messiah.”
“ Mocking quibbles 1” said Cleveland. “ You
sought this interview. You must have some
motive for desiring an explanation; and yet
when I offer an opportunity, you put me off
with banter. Call upon me at my lodgings.”
“ No,” replied the other, “ you shall visit
mine; that is to say, if you dare. Here is my
card.”
Cleveland read on the dirty scrap of paste­
board which the other handed to him, “ Jean
Brisseau, Printer, Rue de Lesdigueres, Fau­
bourg St. Antoine.” “ I will not fail you,”
said he.
Digitized byGoogle
126 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Will you really come V rejoined the other;
“ that is bold. All-powerful love, to what will
you not compel us P
*
“ At what hour shall I come V
“ Dusk,” replied the other.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 127
C H A PTE R X X X V .
THE CONDITION.
C leveland returned home, musing on the cha­
racter of his new acquaintance. It was evident,
from his allusions, that he was intimately ac­
quainted with Antonia, and must have possessed
great influence over her to have obtained from
her, an account of the incident which first
brought her in contact with himself. That she
was imprisoned in the Bastille, he did not for a
moment believe. What minister would take
the trouble to send a poor obscure and uncon-
Digitized by Google
128 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
nected girl to a state prison ? He looked upon
the assertion as made at random, with a view to
startle his nerves and to rouse his attention.
Some misgivings crossed his mind as to the
prudence of putting himself within the power of
such a questionable personage as his morning’s
acquaintance, by entering his haunts. But he
was constitutionally brave, and his acquired
indifference to life had exaggerated this feeling
into a careless rashness and unreasonable indif­
ference to danger. Besides, he argued to him­
self with some plausibility, that if this ven­
triloquist had wished to entrap him, he would
have adopted a quieter and milder demeanour,
calculated to inspire confidence; whereas his
object had evidently been to dazzle and as­
tonish—to excite curiosity and wonder, even at
the risk of rousing suspicion.
As the evening approached, he took a fiacre
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 2 9
and drove to the Faubourg S t Antoine. Dis­
missing his vehicle, he easily found the house
designated on the card. It was a printing
office. He rung the bell, and the door opened.
He walked boldly in, and found himself in a
bare dirty room, surrounded by types, com­
positors' desks, and the other apparatus of the
typographical art.
“ Is Jean Brisseau at home ?” said he, in a
loud firm voice.
u Behold him,” said the ventriloquist, stepping
forward from a door on the opposite side of the
apartment; “ Good, you are punctual to my
vague appointment; but we are exposed to in­
terruption in this place. Let us adjourn to a
safer apartment."
He raised a trapdoor, so artificially con­
structed in the floor, that it would probably
have escaped any casual observer's notice. A
g 3
Digitized by Google
130 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
rough flight of stairs was visible. Brisseau
motioned to Cleveland to descend them. A
slight feeling of hesitation came over him, but a
moment’s reflexion convinced him that his true
policy was either to trust Brisseau altogether or
not at all. He decided on the former course,
and stepped boldly down the stairs. Brisseau
followed him, closing the trapdoor behind him.
At the bottom of the flight, Cleveland found
himself in a large subterranean apartment or
cellar, well lighted by a strong lamp, which
hung from the centre of the roof. There was a
printing press in the middle of the room, with
some numbers of a periodical publication scat­
tered about the machine. It would have been
imprudent in Cleveland to have exhibited too
much curiosity, but he could not help casting a
few glances on the sheets. He immediately
recognized them to be numbers of an illicit and
k Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 131
exceedingly seditious newspaper, which had
lately, to the great chagrin of the government,
been much circulated among the lower orders of
the French metropolis.
4
4 Well, sir,” cried Brisseau, seating himself,
and motioning to Cleveland to do the same,
4
4what is the object of your visit here ?”
“ I have come,” said Cleveland, “ to hear you
explain at greater length than you were inclined
to do this morning, the origin and extent of the
acquaintance which you pretend to have formed
with me.”
441 repeat that I have often enjoyed the plea­
sure of your society,” replied Brisseau, 4
4before
this morning. I was present at the Duke de
Fronsac’s supper, when those two precious re-,
presentatives of modern chivalry betted, instead
of fighting, about the beauty of their respective
mistresses. Even before your connexion with
Digitized by Google
182 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Mademoiselle di Volterra, your character had
interested me. I studied it with attention, and
found abundant matter both for admiration and
pity."
“ Indeed," said Cleveland, smiling, “ I was
not at all aware of the honour I enjoyed.”
“ Are you offended, my proud reserved
islander, that the mechanic, Jean Brisseau, ad­
mired and pitied you ?”
“ Not at all,” replied Cleveland. “ If you
have studied my character to any purpose, you
must know, that though bitter experience deters
me from seeking the sympathy of those about
me, I value— deeply value the good opinion of
the lowest and humblest human being, when it
is genuine and disinterested. Nay, the attach­
ment of a dog is not to me an object of indif­
ference.”
“ Spoken like yourself 1” exclaimed the prin-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 183
ter, approvingly. “ You are not the aristocrat
I began to think you.”
“ But it was surely not in your character of
Jean Brisseau,” said Cleveland, “ that you
gained access to the Due de Fronsac's par­
ties. What part did you enact on those occa­
sions ?”
“ That is a secret,” replied the other. “ I dare
not tell you; because I may need the disguise
again.”
“ You were pleased to say,” replied Cleveland,
“ that you were attracted and interested by my
peculiarities of disposition, even before my con­
nexion with Mademoiselle di Volterra. How
could such a circumstance affect your feelings
towards me ?”
“ That, also, ” replied Brisseau, smiling,
“ must remain a mystery to you.”
“ Enough of myself,” said Cleveland. “ Tell
Digitized by Google
134 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
me something of Mademoiselle di Vdterra.”
And he suppressed a sigh as he asked the
question. “ Under whose protection is she now
residing ?”
“ The King’s.”
“ The King’s !” repeated Cleveland, incredu­
lously.
“ Yes,” answered Brisseau; “ she is now
living under the protection of the King, as
represented by the very unheroic Marquis de
Launey, Governor of the Bastille.”
“ Oh God ! is she really immured in that
horrible prison ?— do not trifle with me on the
subject.”
“ I speak, alas! in serious sadness,” replied
Brisseau, “ when I say she has been an inmate
of the Bastille for the last four months.”
“ Four months !” repeated Cleveland, in a
tone of horror; “ and I all this time----- ” he
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1S5
struck his forehead violently with his clenched
hand.
“ ----- Have spent the day in hanging over
bridges, and gazing upon the m oon said Bris-
seau, finishing the broken exclamation. “ W ell!
it is all the better that you passed the interval,
unconscious of her fate. You could not have
rendered her the smallest aid.”
“ Yes, yes; I could,” returned Cleveland,
impetuously. u I could have flown to Ver­
sailles, gained an audience of the King— pleaded
the cause of truth, justice, and innocence, and
have procured her release.”
“ Go to Versailles!” exclaimed Brisseau.
“ What boyish folly! Hear me. Without dis­
paragement to your abilities, abler men have ere
now pleaded the cause of truth, justice, and
innocence at Versailles, and have had judgment
given against them. But had you such superior
Digitized by Google
1S6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
eloquence, as to succeed where everybody had
failed, what in truth would your story in sub*
stance amount to? That the young lady in
question had lived with you for some months in
a very equivocal capacity, which you most pro­
bably would not think it worth while minutely
to analyze; that during that period you had
every reason to be satisfied with the young
lady’sconduct; thatcertain, morbid,over-refined,
and complicated emotions, which no length
of explanation would enable so pudding-headed
a personage as his most Christian Majesty Louis
the Sixteenth to understand, had induced a
separation. That during her absence your
passion had renewed with ten-fold vigour, and,
consequently, that it was very improper to shut
up the object of so much love and tenderness in
the Bastille.”
Despite his agitation and pain at the con-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 187
firmation of Antonia’s imprisonment, Cleveland
could hardly help smiling at Brisseau’s descrip­
tion of his applications.
MAny story, however affecting, may be cari­
catured,” said Cleveland; €€ Louis the Sixteenth
has ere now granted more unreasonablerequests
than mine.”
MNo doubt,” returned Brisseau; Mbut con­
sider the political state of the court at the present
moment. Tomorrow is the all-important day,
on which the States-General meet for the first
time. Every brain in France, not belonging
to a lover or an idiot, is throbbing, whirling,
splitting with excitement at the anticipated
result of this grand political experiment. Some
hearts beat high with hope; others sink with
gloomy apprehension; but the attention of all
is fixed, concentrated, absorbed, by this all-
engrossing subject. Nothing else is talked of
Digitized by Google
138 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO:
during the day, nothing else is dreamed of by
night; no other topic of conversation is permitted
in any class of society. You smile— but you
are a lover, and have no time to waste on such
tedious trifles as the fate of empires, or the des­
tinies of millions. W ell! the centre of all this
agitation is the King; of all the over-excited
minds and wearied brains in France, the fat and
feeble cerebrum of Louis Capet suffers the most.
Not only is he torn to pieces by his own natural
doubts and fears; but he is surrounded by a
crowd of courtiers, ministers, priests, nobles,
and princes of the blood, who all pull and tug
him different ways, just as the niob of porters
and waiters treat an English traveller, when he
first lands on the Calais pier. The King resigns
himself in passive despair to the strongest
puller----- ”
“ What does all this tend to V interrupted
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 139
Cleveland, impatiently. c
<If true, how does it
affect Antonia or myself?”
“ Thus much,” replied Brisseau ; “ at such
a moment, in such a state, can you expect the
harassed preoccupied monarch to examine the
case of an obscure prisoner in the Bastille, and
to adjudicate thereon?”
“ Why not?” said Cleveland, with enthusiasm.
“ However numerous or important his occupa­
tions, he should always find time to do justice;
and if he cannot, he ought to abdicate, and
descend from a throne, the duties of which he
cannot discharge.”
“ Hear me,” answered Brisseau, shrugging
his shoulders; “ if you are determined to rescue
the lady of your love by your own personal
exertions, take your pocket pistols and batter the
massy walls of the Bastille until you have effected
a practicable breach; then rush forward with
Digitized by Googl
140 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO :
your court sword, and storm the fortress single-
handed, like one of Ariosto’s heroes. Such an
attempt would be moderate, feasible, and ra­
tional, compared with your present notion.’*
“ Why so V persisted Cleveland, although
beginning himself to doubt the efficacy of his
interference at Versailles. “ The influence of
the English Ambassador will procure me a
personal interview whenever T wish.”
MGood,” retorted Brisseau. “ Grant that,
after a world of solicitations, you are allowed to
enter the King’s closet for a few minutes, how
will you advance your object ? What will you
gain by it? Louis will assume perhaps a pain­
ful air of attention— will gaze on you with lack­
lustre eyes, and suppose from your earnestness
and eagerness, that you are stating some matter
connected with the States General. You finish
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 4 1
— present your petition or memorial, and are
ushered out. The King hands over the docu­
ment to his private secretary, with faint orders
to examine it and make his report thereon.
The Secretary at such a moment, would as soon
think of going through a complete course of
theological reading; and it will lie in his desk
until it has accumulated a certain amount of
dust and dirt, and it will then be transferred to
his cook.”
“ Is there then no resource, no remedy ?”
said Cleveland despondingly. “ Must I quietly
acquiesce in the undeserved misery of the being
I love best on earth V
4
4Any efforts that you make to rescue her,”
replied Brisseau, 4
4will prove abortive, and
in all probability aggravate the condition of her
whom they are intended to benefit.”
4
4Is there no hope then ?”
Digitized by Google
142 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ I did not say that,” returned Brisseau.
“ If I must despair/' said Cleveland, “ who
shall dare to undertake the enterprise.”
wNo individual,” replied Brisseau, “ can suc­
ceed.”
“ Who then shall free her?” enquired Cleve­
land.
“ A power, mightier than individuals,” an­
swered Brisseau, in a more impressive manner
than he had yet used, “ mightier even than a
crowned King, isat work, which while it sweeps
away the rich and powerful by myriads, may
prove the harbinger of deliverance to one, who
now seems cut off from all hope of escape;
even as the hurricane, which engulfs a fleet,
may float to shore a fragile casket.1
1
“ To what power do you allude,” said Cleve­
land, who like most of the English then in
Paris apprehended no convulsion or disturbance,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 148
from the establishment of a form of government
similar to their own.
“ The resistless march of events,”— replied
Brisseau, “ theforceof inevitable circumstances—
which rolls on its predetermined course, shatter,
ing old tyrannies, and creating new tyrants;
obliterating ancient prejudices and substituting
modern follies; overturning, changing, destroy­
ing, and reproducing laws, governments, cus­
toms, manners, and feelings; while the human
pigmies who figure as chiefs— who, raised to-day,
are crushed to-morrow, yet dare to deem them­
selves the causers and movers of the scene, are
but in truth so many passive links in the long
mysterious chain, which binds the whole universe
in a scheme of fitted necessity.”
“ So I am to wait with folded arms, according
to your counsel,” said Cleveland u until events
set her at liberty: like Horace's rustic, waiting
Digitized by Google
1 4 4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
on the bank, until the river should rtm dry. I
confess I see no symptoms of the social convul­
sion which you forebode.*’
“ Let that pass,” replied the other impa­
tiently, " and answer truly the question I shall
put to you. Were Antonia di Volterra, whose
image now seems so exclusively to occupy your
heart and head, as to deprive you of all power
of observing what is passing around you,— were
this cherished object of your thoughts and wishes
restored toyou at the present moment,— examine
well your intentions and feelings towards her,
and say, would your future conduct be really
calculated to promote her happiness ? ’
“ If a lover,” said Cleveland, “ who deems
the mere presence of his mistress a luxury,
greater than the whole world besides could afford
him, is likely to make her happy, I answer your
question in the affirmative.”
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 145
“ If such a man’s deeds,” gravely replied
Brisseau, “ were consistent with his sentiments,
he would guard his mistress’s honourasjealously
as his own— would scorn to expose her to the
world’s reproach, by maintaining a connexion
with her, which society condemns. Do your
past acts correspond with these principles; and
what are your intentions for the future ?”
Cleveland bit his lips, and remained silent for
some moments. At length he answered in a
constrained voice, “ I came hither, Monsieur
Brisseau, upon the understanding that I should
receive some interesting intelligence, not to be
catechised by an utter stranger as to my most
secret thoughts, views, and intentions.”
“ You think to take refuge from my question
in the petty formalities ofsociety,” replied Bris­
seau ; “ I admit the enquiry to offend against
all rules of polite intercourse, and I still press
VOL. HI. H
Digitized by Google
146 COUNT CAGLIOETRO :
the question, which you must answer either by
your words, or your silence; but, in the latter
event, despair of ever again beholding Antonia
di Volterra.”
He spoke with that calm, collected, impressive
energy, which inspires an irresistible conviction,
that the speaker has the power to execute what
he threatens. Cleveland gazed on him with
involuntary astonishment; but a moment’s re­
flexion speedily convinced him that an obscure
mechanic, destitute of powerful connexions or
extensive resources, could not possess the extra­
ordinary influence he affected,
“ If words,” replied Cleveland drily, “ were
evidence of strength, you, my friend, would be
little less than omnipotent. You talk like a
god, but you look like a journeyman printer.
The ardour of your genius makes you overlook
the glaring inference which arises from the fact,
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 147
that the man, who cannot raise himself in life
above the condition of a mechanic, is not likely
to be able to control the fate of others who are
better off than himself.”
“ Bad reasoning!” said Brisseau coolly;
“ because a courier’s drunkenness has ere now
changed the fate of empires: but when I spoke
of an eternal separation, I only threatened what
1, already in part, have executed. I was the
cause that she originally left you.”
“ Indeed!” replied Cleveland, who began to
breathe hard; u you have a singular mode of
recommending yourself to those persons whom
you honour with your attention. Pray,” added
he, in the thick voice of rising passion, “ were
you also the cause of her imprisonment in the
Bastille ?”
“ Alas ! indirectly I was,” answered Brisseau;
“ but be calm, I will redeem my error before
h 2
Digitized by Google
148 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO S
long. I placed her in a station where I deemed
she would have been high and happy; but the
scheme exploded, and the miserable sequel was
what I tell you.”
“ For God's sake, good Monsieur Brisseau,”
cried Cleveland, “ refrain from all future inter­
ference in other folk's affairs. Your intentions
may be good, but your means are most unlucky;
you were pleased to intimate your good-will to
me, and seemed to feel a still stronger interest
in the fate of the young lady we have been
speaking of. What is the result of your well-
meant exertions in behalf of the parties towards
Vhom you are thus favourably disposed? One
loses the society which constituted the chief
charm of his existence; the other is deprived of
her liberty: and both of happiness.”
“ Part of these effects I desigued,” answered
Brisseau; “ a part has happened in spite of my
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 149
utmost exertions. But we are wandering from
the question I was so rude as to put. Do you
refuse to answer it?”
Cleveland hesitated; his reason, his experi­
ence, his natural distrust of the marvellous, the
suspicious tendency engendered in his own mind
by repeated deception, inclined him to treat
Brisseau's pretensions to power with contempt,
and to regard his story as a mere fabrication,
devised for the purposes of imposition. On the
other hand, Brisseau’s demeanour and language
were so striking and impressive, so far exceed­
ing in power and ability the airs and preten­
sions of a vulgar impostor, that in spite of him­
self a secret persuasion stole over his mind that
the man’s vaunts would be redeemed by his
deeds. Divided by these opinions, he took a
middle course. “ You will at least admit,”
said he, “ that the consideration of so important
Digitized by Google
150 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
a question may justify a few hours’ deliberation ;
give me till to-morrow to decide ?’
“ Take four and twenty hours,” replied Bris-
9eau with a triumphant smile, “ and commu­
nicate your ultimatum to-morrow evening.”
At this moment a peculiar tap was heard,
not at the trapdoor by which they entered, but
at some other door or entrance which led into
the cellar. Brisseau started; and his counte­
nance betrayed marks of embarrassment.
“ A friend of mine,” said he to Cleveland,
“ iscoming to visit me. He must not see you—
never could I lull his suspicions; I must hide
you----- ”
He cast his eyes rapidly round the cellar. A
clumsy wooden screen afforded the best place of
concealment that the emergency allowed him to
select. Without asking Cleveland’s leave, he
hurried him behind this piece of apparatus, and
Digitized by Google
OH, THE CHARLATAN. 151
conjured him not to betray his presence. Cleve­
land made no great opposition to the manoeuvre,
though he was puzzled to know why the printer
should be alarmed at being seen in company
with a gentleman. To speak truly, he wished
to know something more of Brisseau, than he
could discover by the conversational skirmishes
which had hitherto taken place between them;
and it occurred to him, that the visitor, unaware
of the presence of a third party, might very
possibly drop some allusion, or ask some ques­
tion, which might throw a light on the previous
pursuits and character of his new acquaintance.
Like most persons ensconced behind a screen,
he speedily found a friendly chink sufficient to
gratify his curiosity. The moment Brisseau
had disposed of the Englishman, he opened the
door.
A fashionably dressed and handsome man,
Digitized by Google J
152 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO 2
between forty and fifty years of age, walked in.
Cleveland at once recognized him to be the
celebrated La Clos, the private secretary of the
Duke of Orleans, renowned even in that licen­
tious age for the surpassing profligacy of his
literary conceptions. His novel of the L ia is o n s
Dangereuses produces on the mind of the reader,
by the intense immorality of its characters, the
same effect which other authors strive to attain
by the description of physical horrors. The
portraiture of the Comtesse de Merteuil would
appal the most vicious person that ever lived.
“ What news from Versailles ?” said Brisseau.
“ Plenty,” replied the new comer, " so good
as to be almost bad.”
“ Ah 1 the danger I always foreboded,” ex­
claimed Brisseau; “ we have invoked a storm
to show the incapacity of the present pilot, and
to form a pretext for substituting another; and
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 153
I am afraid the tempest will blow the whole ship
to pieces.”
“ You have exactly touched the very centre
of my apprehensions,” said La Clos.
“ But why give way to fear ?” replied Bris-
seau; “ let the tempest rage as it will, two
clever fellows, like ourselves, may manage to
build a raft out of the ship, that furious winds,
instead of sinking, may waft to fortune.”
La Clos shook his head. “ Who,” said he
“ can foretell his fate in a revolution ?”
“ What is the general temper and spirit of the
deputies of the Tiers Etat ?” enquired Brisseau.
“ All are filled,” replied La Clos, “ with
boundless hopes and impossible aspirations;
they have unanimously agreed to absorb the
other two states, by compelling them to vote by
numbers instead of by orders. This will be
their first step. I have spoken to many others,
h 3
Digitized byGoogle
154 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
who avow, that nothing less will content them,
than the abolition of titles and privileges, the
confiscation of Church property, and the reduc­
tion of the royal authority to a point which will
leave Louis the Sixteenth the crowned president
of & republic, rather than King of France. Tim
first point of the problem being established, viz.
that the States-General will attempt to over­
throw monarchy; the next point essential to
ascertain is, what course the monarch will
take ?”
“ Say, rather,” replied Brisseau, “ whatcourse
will the court take? for the court ultimately
governs the monarch/*
“ The King’s personal inclinations,” said La
Clos, “ would lead him to yield; but his wife
and courtiers will sooner or later urge him into
resistance/’
“ Then comes the tug of war,” cried Bris-
seau, in a low yet exulting voice; “ then comes
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 155
the crisis— then comes the immortal moment
in which we shall strike the grand blow.”
4
4That blow, Brisseau, we shall never strike.”
4
4Why not?’ asked Brisseau, impetuously.
“ I have sounded our chief,” said La Clos,
with an air of melancholy composure, “ and find
him wanting. Mark me, Brisseau, Philip of
Orleans will never be king. He has not stuff
enough in him to form an usurper. His levity
and weakness are inconceivable. He has no
moral courage. When the prospect of the
crown was so distant as to be unattainable, he
coveted the prize with a child's eagerness. Now
that circumstances and our own exertions have
brought it within his reach, with a child's ca­
price or timidity he relaxes his pursuit"
4
4But we will strike the blow for him,” said
Brisseau.
u He will not let us,” answered La Clos. 4
4
At
Digitized byGoogle
104 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
threatening notices, reminding me in an omi­
nous manner of the prophecy of Cagliostro.
Now, as I believe, that out of ten accomplished
prophecies, nine are fulfilled by the prophet, I
should like to be aware of the nature of this
famous prediction, in order that I might guard
against its completion.”
“ This alters the case,” said the Count; “ but
for my own part, I think that precautions for
personal safety inspire so much anxiety, as to
be a worse evil, than the danger they are
intended to counteract Better to die at once,
than always to live in the fear of death. Against
all ordinary attempts, you are as safe as another
man; and a hundred thousand guards could
not secure you from the desperation of an
individual. Again I say, therefore, enjoy the
present; and let the future take care of itself.”
“ My dear D’Ostalis,” replied the Duke,
Digitized by
OR, THE CHARLATAN i
rather drily, <
cI will adroit tiia: y ju d*-
played, during this diseuittiuu. a greai ruo**
intellectual power. At lir^^ Voa ptmuo
phical—then poetieal and tk»uupuvv —+ u •+ u
you are philosophical agau^ i/.r * *
*
■
adroit that you have a right io wiiuno''-
me a secret which concern- un pei*on<*- »**•
and which, it was agreed vo. auoui'- !»;•*>
whenever I should request >o»’ '
u Since you asr u * *o pojiueC<; *^
rrottaih, “ i ehaJi of cuui#*- uu^‘ w .>
*-
opposition- Without- the*-, uyuo.i;^
a minute deseripUor of )ou' u; ... .
gestures eaciucuaaoo- anc **
./
»
appeared to ov to h* *u ■
and ferocious toot, w t y
progress of your caring* - > v >
-
servants to d u ^ oi> u* *
■ .**
obey. You wete -u/
Digitized byGoogle
156 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
the last moment he will hesitate, and refuse us
his authority. When the scheme was in embryo,
it amused his imagination; now it draws near,
he trembles at its magnitude and importance.”
4
4Well, then,” cried Brisseau, 4
4we will on in
our career, and strike for ourselves. The last
three weeks, I have been disseminating papers
among the French guards, that would have made
the wig of the 4
4Grand Monarque” uncurl itself
with horror. Then, thanks to my exertions; all
the grisettes in Parisare glowing withenthusiasm
for the States General. Treason and pleasure are
mingled in their kisses, and while their military
heroes fancy themselves teaching the art of love,
they are in truth learning the catechism of revo­
lution. Above all, the privates and subalterns are
hugeously tickled with the clause in the cahiers,
in which the constituents instruct their repre­
sentatives to demand an increase of pay for the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 157
army. What unknown friend to our plots first
started the idea ? It was indeed a vast stroke of
policy to outweigh the influence of present pay­
ment by a prospective bribe.”
“ The neutrality of the military,” replied La
Clos, “ were the utmost we could expect; they
will not assist in the work of rebellion.”
“ Some will,” said Brisseau.
“ Still, the main business of insurrection,”
said La Clos, “ must be effected by popular
force. What success have you had in organizing
the chaotic elements of revolt?”
“ I have enlisted in my service,” said Bris­
seau, “ eleven invaluable emissaries.”
“ At a great expense ?” asked La Clos, “ that,
however,” added he, “ is a secondary consider­
ation.”
“ Six,” answered Brisseau, “ are mercenary
desperadoes, whom I pay with hard cash. Two
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
158
enthusiasts, whom I pay with words; that is, I
occasionally harangue them. The other three
have joined me from mere love of fighting and
mischief. They are incessantly spreading sedi­
tion in their respective quarters; and the first
time that any public event rouses the Parisian
populace into insurrection, they will head them,
and direct the energies of the crowd to some
definite practicable design."
“ Remember," said La Clos, “ the Bastille
mii9t be the first object of attack."
“ Fear not," replied Brisseau; “ I have good
reasons for not forgetting your plans."
“ I shall nowproceed tothe Palais Royale,” said
La Clos, “ and report progress. My news will
be coldly received, because I bring him nearer
and nearer to the Rubicon, which he has neither
courageenough to cross, nor prudence enough to
fly."
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 159
“ Never mind,” said Brisseau; “ On, on, for
our own sakes, if not for his.”
“ Amen,” said La Clos, turning towards the
door. “ In a week's time I shall see you again;
by that time matters will have thickened.”
As soon as La Clos had taken his leave,
Cleveland advanced from his hiding-place.
“ What think you of the conversation you
have just heard ?”
“ Shall I tell you what I think of yourself?”
asked Cleveland.
“ Do so.”
“ That you are the rashest and most incon­
tinent conspirator thateverperishedon ascaffold.”
“ I had only the choice of evils,” answered
Brisseau. “ La Clos is the most suspicious of
men. His distrust once excited is never laid.
My schemes fan less risk of derangement from
the introduction of a new confidant, than from
Digitized by Google
160 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
the alienation of the prominent actors. Suffer­
ing in your tenderest ties from the power of
arbitrary imprisonment, I knew that you could
not be otherwise than hostile to the govern­
ment ; besides, I wished you to see that I was
something more than a journeyman printer;
more than all this, I do not fear the police,
for they can neither secure my person, nor
interrupt my plans.”
Cleveland felt no wish to refute these argu­
ments. To convince a desperate and daring
character, that the safety of his person and the
success of his schemes depended upon his own
discretion, would be an act of glaring and
obvious impolicy. He assented, therefore, to
the justice of Brisseau’s remarks, and after
announcing that he should call the next day, at
the same hour, he took leave of his strange
acquaintance.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 161
C H A PTE R X X X V I.
A STRANGE CHARACTER DEVELOPED.
On finding himself in the open street, Cleve­
land’s first impulse was to seek the purlieus of
the Bastille. He walked rapidly along, until
the gloomy towers of that too celebrated prison,
darkly defined against the moonlight, rose upon
his sight. He advanced to the fosse, and gazed
upon the massive walls and frowning battlements,
which contained the object of his deepest attach­
ment, with a strange and mingled emotion of
Digitized by Google
162 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
fury, bitterness, and delight. Within a stone’s
throw from where he stood, Antonia breathed,
lived, and had her being. Yet he could not see
her— speak to her —bear her voice— gaze upon
her form— or convey to her the smallest intima­
tion of his vicinity. By human intervention,
that small space of ground, was converted into
an impassable barrier between him and all that
he held dear on earth. A single stone wall
alone interposed, and yet more effectually sepa­
rated him from his mistress, than if whole seas
and continents had been placed between them.
Why had he come there? What pleasure
did he receive? what profit did he gain by
straining his eyes on the black towers of the
Bastille ? As far as the enjoyment of Antonia’s
presence and company was concerned, he might
as well have been at the other end of France—
at the other end of the world. What was the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 1 6 3
subtle influence, that like a magnet drew him
to the spot? What was the inexplicable attrac­
tion, that detained him for hours before the
walls that encompassed his mistress? but it is
useless to attempt an analysis of the sentiment*
None but lovers— none but those who have
deeply and truly loved— a class of mortals much
fewer in number than the world supposes,— can
understand why Cleveland remained in the
vicinity of the fortress till the dawn. It is true,
the incidents of the day afforded him ample
food for reflection. Antonia’s fate, the strange
manner in which it was communicated, the
extraordinary and mysterious character of Bris-
seau, the alarming confidence which had been
thrust upon him without his own sanction or
consent— all constituted matters of excitement
and consideration; but passing over the latter
topics, his thoughts recurred to Antonia— to the
Digitized by Google
164 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
possibility of recovering her. The event to the
view of reason appeared remote and improbable,
yet when Brisseau spoke of coining events
which would effect her release, such was his
extraordinary faculty of inspiring belief and
confidence, that hope sprung up in Cleveland's
mind in spite of himself. Certainly if a revo­
lution were impending, which should seat the
younger branch of the Bourbons on the throne,
her deliverance was not far off; for Brisseau
evidently took a strong interest in her welfare,
and was too important a partizan to be refused
such a trifling favour as her freedom. But was
such a change of dynasty probable? The
Duke of Orleans was a favourite with the peo­
ple at present, because he opposed himself to
the Court in politics; but Cleveland felt that
he had neither energies to command respect,
nor virtues to inspire sympathy, and that he
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 165
was as ill-calculated, as Louis himself, to long
maintain the part of a popular leader. La
Clos, with whose great talents he was well ac­
quainted, had seemed to take the same view of
liis chiefs character, and to deem him incapable
of accomplishing the design he had so recklessly
commenced. It was on Brisseau’s own exer­
tions that he chiefly relied, and so strong an
opinion had he conceived of the inexhaustible
resources and the consumnate audacity of that
extraordinary personage;— so highly did he
estimate the versatility and extent of his talents,
that he thought him capable of bringing to pass
apparent impossibilities.
Supposing then that Antonia should be again
restored to him, upon what terms did he pro­
pose to live with her— upon what principles
to regulate their future intercourse ? Cleveland
was neither fickle nor inconstant: no man was
Digitized by Google
166 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
better aware, that mutual fidelity is the essential
condition to mutual affection, and that he who
desires to be sincerely and truly loved, must
direct his exclusive devotion to a single object
He was entirely free from the vulgar passion
for variety which seems to haunt so many men.
He looked upon this restless craving after new
objects of desire, as evidence of an incapacity
for enjoyment. He well knew, that such men
leave all in turn, because they are unable to
find with any the happiness they seek, and that
their incessant love of change, is only a fruitless
effort to escape from their own miserable satiety;
just as invalids cause themselves to be trans­
ported from town to town, and from country to
country, in the vain hope of discovering a
climate, that will give to disease and irritation,
the calm and placid vigour, that belongs to
health alone. His hesitation, then, to unite
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 167
himself to Antonia, did not arise from any
apprehension, that he should at a future period
repent the union. Never since he had known
her had his heart wandered a moment, though
but in imagination. A cloud it is true had for
a short time overshadowed his affection, but
in the first hour of absence, it had burst
forth again with its original warmth. He
intensely felt all her beauty and excellence,
and never attempted to supply the vacancy she
had left in his bosom. Not marriage itself
could surround him with stricter ties, than were
already imposed upon him by his own inclina­
tions. Why, then, did he hesitate to convert a
covert and clandestine connexion into a per­
manent and legitimate union ? What were the
obstacles between him and happiness? The
dread of the world’s sneer. Antonia’s birth
was obscure and mysterious; the Duke de
Digitized by Google
108 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
Fronsac still lived to brand her as his runaway
mistress; and, lastly, her intercourse with him­
self. O f this last article of accusation he soon
disposed; it was cruel, it was ungenerous, to
charge her with a fault which was partly owing
to circumstances, and partly to his own conduct,
which was committed in his own favour, and for
his own sake. The other two unfortunate cir­
cumstances of her lot, might certainly expose
her, and consequently himself, to much con­
tumely and vexation. While he was totally
ignorant of her parentage, he could never be
secure but that the lowest and most degraded of
mankind might start up, and claim her as his
child ; then her involuntary residence under the
Duke's protection would be exposed to much
misconstruction, and would render her an easy
prey to calumny and misrepresentation. But
these objections lost much of their weight, when
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 169
he recollected, that he was not a native of
France; and that a repetition of his visit to that
country was by no means essential either to his
worldly prosperity, or his mental happiness. In
England there would be few to question, and
none to contradict, whatever account he might
choose to give of his foreign wife; while the
refined beauty of her person, and the natural
elegance of her manners, would tend to lull any
suspicions respecting her family. There, too,
she would find a proper sphere of display for
her many charms and virtues; and he confi­
dently anticipated, that if she could be guarded
against unfair prepossessions in the outset of her
career, her intrinsic loveliness, both in mind
and body, would soon be appreciated by society,
and attract an universal tribute of admiration.
We shall not farther pursue,a description of his
mental conflict. Suffice it to say, that the
VOL. III. i
Digitized by Google
170 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
struggles ended, as such always do, by die
strongest impulse winning the victory over the
other contending emotions, and then forcing
poor reason to find arguments to justify the
decision.
Another subject which engaged much of
Cleveland’s attention, was the conversation
between Brisseau and La Clos, which he had
involuntarily overheard on the previous evening.
Parts of it were unintelligible to him; but he
understood quite enough to make him aware
that the parties had embarked on some dark
and desperate scheme of rebellion, and might
deservedly expect to be apprehended at any
moment by the emissaries of government. He
could have no guarantee, that such an arrest
would not take place, whilst he was holding com­
munication with Brisseau. Such an accident
might implicate him in the guilt and danger of
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 171
the plot, and expose him to considerable embar­
rassment, before he could prove his innocence.
With this conviction, it would have been insanity
to have repeated his visit the next morning to
Jean Brisseau. He contented himself with
sending an unsigned, and undated note, in a
feigned hand, to this effect: “ That he was
determined to take the first opportunity of
uniting himself to the lady, in whom Monsieur
Brisseau was so strongly interested.”
If Cleveland had been asked, whether Bris-
seau’s sanguine predictions had inspired him
with the expectation of recovering Antonia, he
would have denied the fact; yet it is certain
that a vague, indefinite, yet powerful sentiment
of hope, lurked in his breast, perhaps unknown
to himself. It was strange, because we have
seen that Cleveland was of a melancholy tem­
perament, and he had many a time despaired,
i 2
Digitized by Google
172 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
under circumstances, which had held out pro­
babilities of success much better founded, than
the present. The secret of his faith lay in
the character of Brisseau. This singular per­
sonage possessed, in an eminent degree, the
peculiar talent of imperceptibly impressing all
who approached him with a profound conviction
of his extraordinary talents and resources. In
every look and gesture there was a calm impo­
sing assumption of power, which sooner or
later prevailed over the strongest scepticism.
This unconsciousrelianceon Brisseauwasnatur­
ally much increased, when intelligence of the
first proceedings of the States General arrived
in Paris. It was well known that this celebrated
assemblyconsisted of deputies electedby thethree
orders in the state: the clergy, nobility, and
bourgeoisie, or commonalty. The third estate
sent twice as many representatives, as either of
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 173
the other two classes. In summoning the States
General, the King and his advisers intended
that they should vote according to orders; that
is to say, that the representatives of each class
should severally ascertain the opinions of their
members, and then, that the majority of orders
should decidetheadoption or rejection ofthe mea­
sures underdiscussion. In thismanner, thecourt,
anticipating that the representatives of the pri­
vileged orders would generally adhere to the
side of the government, expected to obtain a
majority of orders, if not of the representatives;
and trusted with confidence, that on most occa­
sions of importance, the clergy and nobility
would unite in resisting the innovations, and
revolutionary tendencies of the third state.
The popular leaders saw the importance of the
point, and strenuously insisted, that the three
orders should vote together ; and that the gross
Digitized by Google
174 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
majority should constitute the decision of the
assembly. It is not necessary to relate the
details of this famous struggle, and the mode in
which it ultimately terminated in favour of the
popular party. When the result of the contest
became known in Paris, Cleveland was struck
by the remarkable coincidence between the pre*
dictions uttered by Brisseau, and La Clos, in
their confidential conference, and the actual
course of events; and he hardly knew which to
admire most, the correctness of their political
judgment, or the amazing extent of their pri­
vate information. At this period, the future
appeared bright and full of hope to Cleveland;
not only did he rejoice, in common with all the
generous and liberal spirits of the age, to see a
great nation shaking off an odious system of
despotism and vassalage, to which they had been
for centuries subjected, but he had a deeper and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 175
more personal interest in the struggle which
was going on ; he felt that great changes in the
political system of the country were inevitable;
and he foresaw, that amongst the first and most
necessaryjofthesealterations, wouldbealawsecur­
ingthe personal liberty of the subject against the
tyranny of the executive, and effecting the dis­
charge of all the state prisoners, who were at
present confined under various frivolous pretexts
in different parts of France. It now occurred
to him, that it might be in anticipation ofsome
such measure, that Brisseau had predicted the
speedy release of Antonia; but suddenly the
flattering prospect began to darken. The King,
who had at present yielded to the wishes of the
popular party, and used his personal influence
with the representatives of the clergy and no­
bility, for the purpose of inducing them to
accede to the system of voting proposed by the
Digitized by Google
1 76 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
third estate, now changed his course. In the
royal sitting held on the twentieth of June, he
openly avowed his intentions to retain the odious
prerogatives of his ancestors, and forbid the
representatives to exercise the functions of a
legislative assembly. The absence, too, of the
popular minister, Necker, on this occasion, was
remarked, as an ominous circumstance. The
exclusion of the deputies from their accustomed
place of deliberation; their substitution of a
neighbouring tennis court; the courageous and
sublime oath which they swore, never toseparate,
until they had succeeded in obtaining a constitu­
tion for France, followed in rapid succession.
These indications, on the part of the court, of
a determination to get rid of the States General;
and the firmness and energy, on the other hand,
with which that body resisted the attacks made
upon them, blighted the hopes, which Cleveland
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 177
had begun to entertain. The prospect of the
peaceable enactment of such a law, as he had
anticipated, was now far removed; and Antonia's
deliverance must be expected from other means.
In this state of anxiety and agitation, the only
resource which suggested itself to his imagina­
tion, was a renewal of his acquaintance with
Brisseau; and so eager did he become to ac­
quire some well-founded information respecting
the probable course of future events, that his
former apprehensions of being implicated in
that person’s intrigues, were now quite over­
looked.
A little after dusk, he repaired to the Rue
Lesdiguieres, and gave three distinct knocks at
the door of the printing office; it was opened, as
before, by a wire, which passed into another
room. Cleveland walked in, and waited the
requisite time; at last Brisseau made his ap­
pearance. i 3
Digitized by Google
178 COUNT CAGLIOBTRO Z
“ H a! Monsieur Cleveland/’ said he, with a
polite bow, “ I am delighted to see you; but
what has induced you to venture once more into
this den of rebellion, this cave of treason, this
sink of sedition, from which you have of late so
prudently kept away? Do not suppose you
are not welcome, because I ask the question;
I will confess that I am surprised at the visit;
I did not expect to see you again.”
“ Your political prophecies, Monsieur Bris-
seau, have been accomplished with such singular
correctness, that I could not resist my desire to
hear you pronounce some fresh oracles on the
same subject.”
w Your new-born enthusiasm for politics,”
returned Brisseau, with an arch smile, “ is very
amusing; in other words, Sir Lover, you would
know of me, if a certain bird will be able to
burst her cage. I answer that she will; and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 179
repeat what I formerly said, that coming events
will release her. Are you satisfied?"
“ I imagined," said Cleveland, “ when you
spoke of Mademoiselle di Volterra’s speedy de­
liverance, you speculated on the probability, that
the States General would abolish the use of
lettres de cachet, and pass some law equivalent
to the Habeas Corpus of the English, which
would prevent in future the practice of arbitrary
imprisonment, and bring about the release of
those already imprisoned."
<
*You are the last man in the world, from
whom I should have expected such Utopian
ideas. Do you fancy, when a people are op­
pressed, they have nothing to do, but to point
out to their governors the consequences of their
despotic measures, and beg of them to desist ?
When a robber claps a pistol to your breast,
and demands your money, or your life, do you
a
Digitized by Google
180 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
believe, he errs from a theoretical ignorance of
the rights of property; and that a moral lecture
will save your purse ? Know, that history con­
tains many prodigies, but no exception to this
grand universal truth, that from the creation up
to the present hour, governments have never
conceded the smallest portion of reform to aught,
save the actual, or threatened operation of phy­
sical force.”
“ And will the demonstration of the French
be actual, or merely threatened ?”
“ Blood will flow in torrents; of that be
certain: revolutions are not made of rose-water.”
“ But if your grand rule,” said Cleveland,
“ be so universal, how was it that the King ever
summoned the States General ?”
“ Because he and his advisers fancied in their
folly, that the States General would prove a
more pliable and efficacious instrument of taxa-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 181
tion, than the Parliaments. He has now dis­
covered his mistake; and has lost no time in
attempting to get rid of them.”
“ Will he succeed, most illustrious prophet?”
“ No !” answered Brisseau, “ property, in­
telligence, and numbers, are on the popular
side. If the King knew how far and wide the
wish for change has spread— if he knew how
deeply it is rooted in the hearts of his subjects,
he would yield to what is inevitable. But who
shall whisper truth into a monarch's ear ?— who
shall penetrate that mysterious and fatal circle
of minions and intriguers who ever surround a
king; governing him who appears to govern all;
making him blind to the warning of impending
fate; seizing for their own share the power, the
profit, and the pleasure of tyranny, while they
leave to the nominal tyrant its odium and re­
sponsibility.”
Digitized by Google
183 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO1
“ Then my law,” said Cleveland, u is not
likely to be passed, until the monarchy is des­
troyed.”
“ When the monarchy is ground to dust,”
said Brisseau, “ do not be too sure of your law.
There are other despots in the world besides
those who wear a crown. A century may elapse,
before France may be able to boast of such a
bulwark of liberty as you allude to.”
“ Your vaticinations, except upon one point,
are not encouraging.”
“ That is the only matter,” returned Brisseau,
“ in which you are much interested at present.”
“ And you refuse to apprize me of the specific
manner, in which the result, which is sodevoudy
wished for, is to be accomplished.”
“ You must not drive oracles to particulars—
if every prophet were forced to specify the
colour of his Messiah’s hair, he could not long
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 183
retain his infallibility. I say, trust in me. Op­
portunities shall not escape you for want of
notice; when the pear is ripe, I shall put you in
the way to pluck it.”
“ We shall meet again then ?”
“ We shall,” replied Brisseau. “ But as we
may perhaps meet under different auspices, and
in a scene less suited to calm explanation, than
the present, if you have any questions to put—
difficulties to solve— or request to make, you
had better seize the passing moment.”
“ N o:” said Cleveland thoughtfully, “ I have
nothing farther to ask. Yet stay— gratify a
curiosity, which, if impertinent, is at least natu­
ral. I see before me a man, dressed in the
humble garb of a mechanic, possessed of mar­
vellous, and apparently incompatible accom­
plishments : one day I am startled by his ven­
triloquism ; the next, I am alarmed by his
Digitized byGoogle
184 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO *
.
treason. Compelled by fear of the police to
live in a hole under ground, he continues to be
informed of the most important state secrets :
his conversation is one everlasting sneer at
mankind, yet he chooses to take an incompre­
hensible, and causeless interest in an utter
stranger. Living riddle, that you are, furnish
me with your own solution— explain to me the
mystery of yourself.”
“ Did you ever hear of Cagliostro ?” asked
Bx^sseau.
MYes, often,” replied Cleveland, “ you allude
to the famous charlatan and impostor.”
“ Why charlatan ? why impostor 7 * scorn­
fully exclaimed Brisseau; “ because he duped a
few individuals, whilst others cheated whole
nations ? Suppose that he sometimes tempted
a miser to barter some of his loved metal for
the hopes of alchemical gold;— grant he, now
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 185
and then, predicted to a roue, or gambler, the
result which his own conduct made inevitable;
what are these trifling cases of deception, com­
pared with the wholesale impositions of those
great men, whom the world delights to honour ?
Examine the lives of heroes, conquerors, pro­
phets, statesmen, legislators, teachers, preachers,
advocates, orators, and writers. Scan the vo­
luminous records of all they have imagined,
spoken, written, and acted — scrutinize the
principles they brought into action, the false
faiths and erroneous delusions which they engen­
dered ; the struggles of mind and matter which
they headed and exasperated; the wars, massa­
cres, persecutions, and controversies, which they
stirred up— consider the whole amount of all
this thought and action; and accurately calcu­
late, how much was meant to serve the cause of
truth and mankind, and how much to forward
Digitized byGoogle
186 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO l
selfish ends, and individual interests. Distin*
guish between what was intended to benefit and
enlighten, and what was meant to dazzle and
mystify.— Charlatan! Impostor! I throw back
the epithets with scorn, and fix them on the
brightest names consecrated to immortality.”
“ You admit then your identity with Cag-
liostro.”
“ That is one of the many parts,” replied
Brisseau, “ which I have played in my time;
it is now filled by another actor who is in Italy.
I have abandoned the cliaracter for ever.”
“ But why not have adopted, in the outset
of your career, one of these legal and social
charlatanries, which you denounce ? A fiftieth
part of your wasted talents and activity, exerted
in a legitimate direction, would have made you
rich and famous ; whereas----- ” Cleveland
stopped, lest he should irritate the vanity of
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 187
the singular personage, whose character he was
endeavouring to elucidate.
“ Whereas I am now poor and infamous,”
rejoined Brisseau; “ was not that what you were
about to say? but I am wealthier than you
imagine; and as for fame it was never my aim
or object.”
“ May I ask what that is ? * asked Cleveland.
“ Pleasure— excitement— the gratification of
a wild and ardent imagination, which dominates
over my other faculties, and calls incessantly
for strange events, variety of external impres­
sions, and active operations on a fitting sphere;
and which, when condemned by circumstances
to an unnatural inaction, preys upon itself and
becomes my torture, instead of my delight.”
“ And to satisfy this vain, nameless, and in­
definable desire,” said Cleveland, “ you com­
mitted all the pranks attributed to Count Cag-
liostro V
Digitized byGoogle
188 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
“ 'JThe end was quite worth the means; I
grudged neither the trouble nor the risk. I
have seen every hue and shade of many-co­
loured life. I have flitted through all the
different grades of society, as caprice or interest
prompted me. When tired of the refined but
languid wit of the palace, I have sought relief
in the coarse but hearty humour of the cabaret.
Sometimes a noble, sometimes a trader; some­
times living in the crowd, and busying myself in
the endless varieties of human character; some­
times burying myself in my laboratory, and
tracing the mysteries of nature. By turns an
artist, a mechanic, a juggler at a fair, a conjuror
in a village, a quack-philosopher in the capital,
I have inspired the beings, with whom I came
in contact, with new motives of action, conduct­
ed their intrigues, held the thread of.the plot
in my hand, and profited by the denouement.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 189
The ordinary events of my career have been
romances ; my every day existence a melo­
drama; and what between the excitement of
extricating myself from peril, and the enjoy­
ment of achieving success, I have escaped that
mortal ennui— that weariness of existence—
which has clung to you through life like a
poison, and infected every source of pleasure.”
“ But why violate the established laws of
society,” observed Cleveland, “ and wage war
with your species ? *
“ Had I been born on the vantage grounds
of hereditary rank and fortune; had my birth
and connexion entitled me to struggle for the
great prizes and high places of life, be assured
I would never have descended from my natural
eminence, to act the part of Count Cagliostro.
But I was born the slave of labour; sentenced,
by the sordid necessity of earning my daily
Digitized by Google
190 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO !
bread, to the doom of perpetual and unremitting
toil. In my youth, an old gentleman, a customer
to the artist to whom I was apprenticed, who
was fond of promoting education, and diffusing
what he called useful knowledge, took notice of
my talents, and recommended me to perseverance
and industry, as the surest way to greatness. In
proof of this advice, he lent me a biographical
account of all the celebrated men who had risen
from obscurity and poverty to eminence. I
drew from it an inference he little expected;
I computed the space of time, over which the
lives of these prosperous individuals extended;
and I calculated the numbef of beings who had
lived and died, where fortune originally placed
them: and I found the chances to be ten mil­
lions to one against the rise of any particular
individual. I rejected what you would term
legitimate means with scorn and despair; and
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 191
since I could not untie the tight though invisible
meshes of poverty, I boldly cut them.”
“ Are you fully aware of the chances of the
perilous game you are playing ? Society against
a single individual— a myriad to a unit?’
“ I have estimated them again, and again,
with the most rigid arithmetic,” said Brisseau
gravely, “ and taking my own peculiar personal
qualities into the calculation, and making the
necessary allowance, I find the hazard is not so
great as you imagine.”
Cleveland shook his head.
“ Well, be the danger what it will,” con­
tinued Brisseau, “ I am prepared to meet it.
When I can no longer live after my own will
and fashion, I am content to die, but not to
trail out a dull, laborious, mechanical existence,
distinguished only from the machine, at, or with
Digitized by Google
192 COUNT CA6LIOSTRO:
which I work, by susceptibility to pain and
envy.”
A long pause ensued on both sides. Each
seemed occupied by his own thoughts, and
neither attempted to continue the conversation.
At length Brisseau abruptly bade Cleveland
adieu. The latter understood the hint, and
immediately took his departure.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 19S
C H APTER X X X V II.
THE BIRTH-DAY OF THE GREATEST EVENT IN
MODERN HISTORY.
On the thirteenth of July, Paris was thunder­
struck with the intelligence of Necker’s dismissal
on the preceding day. The elements of explosion
had long been gathering in the metropolis; and
this impolitic step on the part ofthe court, acted
as aspark to kindle them. The populace broke
into open insurrection.
Cleveland went out to collect news, of what
was passing in the streets; and learnt, that the
Hospital of the Invalids had been attacked, and
vol. h i. K
Digitized by Google
194 COUHT CAGLIOfiTRO:
taken by ft mob, who had plundered its vaults
of 80,000 muskets, and a proportionable quan­
tity of ammunition: Cleveland saw the serious
consequences of this exploit, which not only in­
spired the insurgents with courage, and confi­
dence in their own strength; but put into their
hands the means of executing still more impor­
tant enterprises. On his return to his lodgings,
he found the following note. “ To-morrow will
be enacted a grand popular melo-drama, in the
Rue de St. Antoine, Place de la Bastille. If
Monsieur Cleveland does not object to the smell
of gunpowder, he is particularly requested, by
his printing-house friend, to assist in the repre­
sentation: Monsieur Brisseaii is of opinion,
that the denouement of the piece will be in­
tensely interesting to Monsieur Cleveland.”
“ The event,” thought Cleveland, “ which this
extraordinary man predicted, and which I
Digitized by Google
OK, THE CHARLATAN. 195
thought so impossible, is actually on the eve of
completion.”
The next morning, Cleveland repaired to the
Rue de St. Antoine, where the Bastille was
situated; but, long before he arrived m sight of
that fortress, his progress was obstructed by
groups of people, who stood engaged in loud
and fierce discussion, on each side of the street:
most of them were armed with some formidable
weapon,— a great number had muskets, of the
same description as were used in the army; these
were evidently the fruits of yesterday’s attack
upon the Invalids: some brandished, with furious
gestures, a heterogeneous collection ofsuch tools,
and utensils, as might, upon occasion, serve as
instruments of offence. Even the garde meuble,
and the museums, had been plundered; and the
antique weapons of other ages, after centuries
of rusty inaction, were again applied to the
K 2
Digitized by Google
1 9 6 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO*.
purposes, for which they were constructed.
Here you might see a fellow, whose greasy locks,
and blue jacket, betokened him to be a butcher,
flourishing a gold-hilted ivory-handled Damascus
sabre, the spoil of some crusader.— In another
direction was a modern-looking printer, stalking
along with the long lance used in the tourna­
ments of the middle ages. Cleveland could not
help stopping to look at one man, who had arm­
ed, or rather encumbered himself, with the im­
mense two-handled sword, which was in vogue
with some of the heroes of chivalry; so large
that it required the force of both arms to wield
it, and so long that it could only be worn from
the shoulder. “ Morbleu !” said the fellow,
who was endeavouring to brandish his enormous
sword with one hand; “ I think there must have
been giants in the old time, or else we have sad­
ly fallen away in strength; this sword would tire
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 197
my arm in a quarter of an hour; I think I had
better get an axe, like old Tournay. ’
Meantime, Cleveland observed that the peo­
ple, though violently excited, seemed to have no
definite object, or common plan : the chief topic
of their discourse was the infamous conduct of
the Queen, and courtiers, in persuading the
King to dismiss Necker; and the great object
of their anxiety and dread, was the army en­
camped near Paris, under the command of
Marshal Broglio. Some said, that the General
was marching on Paris, with the intention of
taking the City by storm, and allowing the sol­
diers two days* sack;— others avowed, that he
would content himself with drawing lines of cir-
cumvallation round the metropolis, and starving
it into submission;— others again, whose imagi­
nations were more terrific, looked up every
moment at the sky, in expectation of showers of
Digitized by Google
198 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
shells, and added, “ they knew, from good autho­
rity, that Marshal Broglio had received secret
orders to bombard Paris, in case he met with
resistance.” Two or three individuals, who
seemed particularly busy, ran about shouting,
“ Attack die Bastille 1” How such a step afford­
ed any protection against the dangers threatened
by Marshal Broglio, they did not condescend to
explain.
Still pushing his way through the crowd,
Cleveland at last arrived in sight of the Bastille^
and seeing a large mass of people collected
round the outer draw-bridge of the fort, made
his way up to them: he descried Brisseau in the
centre, apparently engaged in a warm alterca­
tion with some well-dressed individuals, who
were endeavouring to dissuade the surrounding
mob from adopting violent measures.
Cleveland had not been in his present poei-
Digitized by Google
OR, THB CHARLATAN* 199
tion long, before Brisseau’s quick eye, darting
round the multitude, fell upon him: the latter
could not leave his place; but he indicated his
consciousness of Cleveland’s presence, by a
slight nod of recognition.
“ Listen to a little reason, my countrymen
said De la Rosidre, a member of the old parli­
ament of Paris, which had acquired a great, and
deserved popularity, from the prominent part
he had taken, in the grand struggle with the
royal authority, which preceded, and, indeed
produced, the convocation of the States General.
“ Listen to reason. I asked, why you congrega­
ted together with shouts and weapons ? you tell
me, because you are alarmed at the supposed
designs of Marshal Broglio. I ask you, whom,
and what, you are going to attack with these
weapons ? you answer, the Bastille; but, if you
level the Bastille with the dust; how will the
Digitized by Google
200 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
destruction of that budding enable you to resist
Broglio’s forces ?”
“ If we destroy the enemies of liberty, within
the City,9
’ replied Brisseau, “ we shall be the
better able to cope with those without*'9
“ Down with the Bastille !" cried a voice in
the crowd; “ it is the stronghold of tyranny and
oppression!”— “ It is the citadel ofdespotism f*
shouted another.
‘‘ Yes! yes!'9 responded the circle round
Brisseau and De la Rosi&re; “ nobody can deny
that— ”
“ It is a prison," exclaimed a pale young man,
with long dishevelled hair, “ where the friends
of liberty are starved to death, while their o p ­
pressors wallow in luxury at Versailles."
This last observation seemed a home-thrust
to the surrounding crowd: it roused their fury
to the utmost; and a thousand voices, hoarse
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 201
with passion, began to repeat, “ Down with the
prison of liberty,— tear down the detested jail/*
At length, an interval of silence occurred
in the human storm. La Rosi&re made an
unlucky use of the opportunity thus afforded
him to speak: “ Surely my friends,” cried he,
with a cool sarcastic smile, “ you do not intend,
because you are the friends of liberty, to pull
down all the prisons in Paris ? the freest coun­
tries in the world must have strong places, in
which the wrong doers, and violators of the law,
may be confined.”
“ La Rosifcre!” shouted the pale young man
with streaming locks, “ you are a traitor !”
“ He has sold himself to the Court!” ex­
claimed one of the crowd.
An outrageous calumny is sure not to be
allowed to drop for want of evidence.
“ I can bear witness,” cried a shoeblack,
k 3
Digitized by Google
202 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
coming forwards, “ that his wife, Madame de
la Rosidre, received on the fifteenth of last
month a hundred thousand livres from the
Queen.”
u Tear the traitor in pieces !” hallooed the
crowd.
“ Hang him with the lamp cords,” cried
some pestilent fellow, suggesting for the first
time a cry which afterwards became so fatally
common.
Already one ruffian had collared Monsieur
de la Rosi&re, when Brisseau was heard loud
above the tumult.
“ Do not let us quarrel among ourselves,”
said he; “ we have enemies enough to employ
all our attention and force. Monsieur de la
Rosi&re is not a traitor; he is honest but mis­
taken ; I will convince him of his error. Mon~
sieur de la Rosi&re,” cried he, turning to that
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 208
gentleman, who by vigorous efforts had disen­
gaged himself from his assailant, “ you call the
Bastille a prison; and you say that prisons are
necessary even in lands which enjoy the greatest
freedom.— Granted. But lay your hand upon
your heart, and answer me truly and candidly
this question. Is the Bastille a prison erected
merely for the detention of prisoners, or a
fortress built in the heart of Paris for the pur­
pose of overawing the city ? If it be simply a
jail, why do yonder battlements bristle with
loaded cannon pointed against the street ? Why
were immense quantities of powder secretly
introduced last night into the fort? In your
heart do you believe all these preparations are
directed against a score of miserable fettered
captives, or against the good citizens of Paris ?”
La Rosi&re’s answer was lost in the tre­
mendous yell by which the surrounding auditors
Digitized by Google
204 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
signified their conviction of the orator’s infer­
ence. When he could obtain a hearing, he was
understood to admit, that the spectacle of the
loaded cannon might justly cause apprehensions
in the minds of the citizens, considering the
uneasy nature of the times.
“ I still,” continued he, “ disclaim my belief
in the supposed hostile intentions of the governor
of the Bastille. But to prevent any farther
jealousies or terrors, and to convince you that I
am unchanged in my good wishes for popular
liberty, I will head a deputation to Monsieur
De Launey, and demand of him that the cannon
be removed from the platform.”
The populace, who are always delighted with
a new idea, shouted applause. Two respectably
dressed individuals (for the mob, before, at leasts
they have arrived at the last stage of revolu­
tionary madness, always like to be represented
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 206
by folks better attired than themselves) were
selected at random from the crowd, and re­
quested to accompany La Rosi&re in his mis­
sion. One of the two persons chosen stood
aghast and silent at the honour thus conferred
upon him ; as if he did not dare to disappoint
the wishes of the crowd by a refusal, and yet
felt himself wanting in courage to execute the
task which had devolved on him.
“ What ails you, Monsieur Dupre ?” said one
of the crowd; “ you don’t seem to half like your
present office.”
“ Why if anybody here— any adventurous
young man,” tremulously replied Monsieur
Dupr&, “ who might wish to see the inside of
the Bastille— I’ve no curiosity myself—would
like to take my place, he is welcome to do so—
that’s all. I’m afraid Pm not exactly the proper
person for this sort of business.”
Digitized by Google
206 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Business!” returned the other; “ you have
nothing to do, but to walk over the drawbridge,
and go into the Governor's house; that is a
very easy matter, is it not?’ When you are
there, La Rosi&re will speak for the party."
“ Doubtless,” returned Monsieur Dupr6,
with a rueful smile; “ it is a very easy matter
to go into the Governor’s house. My only fear
is, that there may be some difficulty in getting
out again.”
The crowd laughed at Monsieur Dupre’s
shrewd conjecture; but La Rosigre, who had
heard this dialogue, came forward, and said,
“ I confess I entertain no fears on my own
account. Monsieur De Launey, the Governor
of the Bastille, is still a Frenchman; and I
would trust myself to his honour; but since my
worthy colleague surmises that we may be de­
tained contrary to good faith, let us stipulate,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 207
that four officers of the garrison should come
out of the Bastille as we go in, and remain as
hostages to this assembly until the return of
their representatives.”
Again the crowd applauded. Monsieur de
La Rosi&re’s proposals were communicated to
one of the sentinels at the drawbridge, who
forthwith reported them to the Governor. He
soon returned to his post, bearing Monsieur De
Launay’s consent, and accompanied by four
subaltern officers. The drawbridge was lowered.
The four officers crossed it, and shook hands
with the populace, as they came among them.
La Rosi&re and his two colleagues entered the
fortress, and the drawbridge was again drawn
up.
The people waited a quarter of an hour with
exemplary patience; at the expiration of this
enormous period of time, they began to suspect
Digitized by Google
208 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO .*
that their deputies had fallen victims to De
Launey's treachery, and to moot the propriety
of putting the hostages to death. In five
minutes more they proceeded to blows and
insults; and it would have gone hard with these
unfortunate men, if La Rosi&re had not thrust
his head from a window in one of the towers,
and assured them of his safety. In another
quarter of an hour, La Rosi&re and his com­
panions made their appearance, and the four
subalterns returned to the Bastille, nothing loth
to escape from the wild hands in whose custody
they had been placed.
The Governor’s answer to the deputation
was, that the cannon complained of had always
been placed in their present position; that he
was not authorized to remove them altogether
without an order from the King; but as the
spectacle alarmed the Parisians assembled out
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 209
side, he would remove the obnoxious pieces out
of sight.
In fact, shortly after La Rosi&re’s return, the
cannon were pulled a little back, so as to con­
ceal them from the view of the spectators
beneath. The populace, who imagined their
point gained, hurrahed with exultation, and La
Rosi&re, elate with his pacific triumph, made
the best of his way home.
Digitized by Google
210 COUNT CA6LI08TRO :
CH APTER X X X V III.
THE ATTACK.
The deputation had not produced the result
which Brisseau had confidently expected, viz.
that a flat refusal would have been returned,
which would have roused the people to the
highest pitch of fury. Though somewhat dis­
concerted at the tranquillizing effect of the
Governor's message, he determined to make an
effort to revive the popular indignation against
the Bastille.
“ My friends,” said he, in a voice the loud.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 211
ness and power of which seemed almost super­
natural, “ you must be very good-natured to
take the Governor’s answer in satisfaction of
your just and reasonable demands. You in­
sisted upon the removal of the cannon; and
lo ! he has dragged them back six inches: but
when Broglio sends him orders to fire on his
countrymen, pray, how many seconds will it
take to push the murderous tubes forwards to
their old places? He treats you, as a nurse
does a child, who cries at the sight of the rod:
she puts it behind her back, and the infant is
pacified; although the rod remains as ready
for use when wanted, as the cannon, that lurk
in ambush behind yonder treacherous ramparts:
but you adult Frenchmen— grown up Parisians
— are you childish enough to be the dupes of
such an old woman’s trick ?”
These few words acted like a firebrand on
Digitized by Google
212 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
the inflammable tempers of the mob. First
arose an ominous buzz of discussion, a low deep
sound, something between a hiss and a groan,
which deepened and then slackened like the
first fitful murmurs of an approaching storm.
Gradually gaining strength, it became universal
throughout the whole extent of the crowd, and
at last burst upon the ear like the awful roar of
a full formed hurricane. The multitude was
agitated like a sea—the dark surface of human
heads heaved, and worked to and fro, until its
vast undulations imitated the huge swell of the
ocean. Arms began to flash among the crowd
— swords were brandished; the glittering tubes
of muskets were protruded from the moving
mass. Suddenly some desperate spirit levelled
his musket at the battlements of the Bastille,
and fired— a shout, that seemed to shake both
heaven and earth, proclaimed the exultation of
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 213
the multitude at this first act of overt hostility.
A thousand muskets were pointed in the same
direction, and a tremendous volley was dis­
charged at the ramparts. The leaden shower
rattled against the massive walls of the old
fortress, as vainly as hailstones. Its only effect
was to drive from the ramparts, such of the
garrison as were gazing on the multitude below.
They quickly withdrew themselves from the
range of their assailants’ guns; and the lately
crowded walls and towers presented not a
trace of human life; save that now and then,
a head slowly and cautiously raised itself above
the battlements. In a moment the adventurous
poll became a target for a thousand muskets,
and it was withdrawn with much greater speed
than it was put forward.
A short description of the Bastille is neces­
sary, to enable the reader to comprehend the
Digitized by Google
£14 COUNT CAGLIOSTEO :
nature of the attack which followed. This
celebrated fort, or prison, was nearly of an ob­
long shape. Each comer terminated in a tower,
and each side was also inlet, as it were, with
two towers, placed at equal distances from each
other. This part of the Bastille, which might
be considered as the citadel, was surrounded by
a deep ditch or fosse, on the outside of which,
and joined by a causeway and drawbridge,
stood, in a large open court, the governor's
house, the guard-house of the garrison, and
other offices connected with the Bastille. These
external buildings adjoined the street, but the
avenue of the entrance which led to them, was
defended by a drawbridge and a branch ditch.
The garrison of this important place consisted
of two troops of Swiss and a small force of In­
valids !
While the mob were maintaining a harm­
less fire against the walls of the Bastille, which
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 215
did not provoke even a single shot from
ita defenders, a much more effectual attack was
made upon the outer drawbride by two daring
individuals; one a discharged soldier, named
Louis Tourney; the other was never known,
and most probably perished in the subsequent
conflict. These courageous men entered a
perfumer’s shop, which adjoined the guard­
house, and from thence climbed over the roof
of the latter building, and got behind the
drawbridge. Meeting with no interruption from
the garrison, who had all retired into the in­
terior of the Bastille, they began to hack and
cut away with their hatchets the fastenings of
the iron chains, which held up the great draw­
bridge. At first, from the noise, confusion, and
smoke, which prevailed, they were not per­
ceived by the garrison in the citadel. When
they espied their operations, and saw their
intentions, they hallooed out to those daring
Digitized byGoogle
216 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
assailants to desist, on pain of being instantly
fired on. These threats only redoubled the
exertions of Tourney and his companion. The
fear of death lent supernatural vigour to their
brawny arms. Again the Swiss, with dreadful
threats and levelled muskets, denounced instant
destruction to them, if they persisted— quicker
and louder fell their desperate strokes. Com­
pelled by the obstinacy of Tourney and his
companion, the garrison at length overcame
their reluctance to fire. Two or three shots
were discharged from the tower, but without
effect,— the assailants’ efforts amounted to agony.
The bridge begins to tremble and shake—
another shot— another blow— the last hasp is
cut away—down falls the bridge! With a scream
of exultation and surprise, the crowd swept
across it, like a pent-up torrent when it bursts
its bounds,— filled the guard-house— filled the
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 4 17
government mansion— filled the court in iront
of it. In a moment a furious attack was made
on the second drawbridge. The garrison, now
seriously alarmed, and irritated at the result of
their former forbearance, began to pour a
deadly and destructive fire of musquetry from
die battlements, and more especially from the
loopholes in the walls. Every shot told on the
densely crowded mass. Each bullet, like a
stone thrown into a china shop, did its work of
destruction. Aghast to find themselves falling
on every side, and mowed down in files, like
the thick grass under the scythe of the mower,
the terrified people made a simultaneous push
backwards, and in half a minute the court was
completely cleared of all but the wounded
and slaughtered wretches who were prostrated
by the discharge. Many of the mob rushed
panic-struck across the drawbridge, and could
vol. hi. L
Digitized byGoogle
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
218
hardly deem themselves safe at the distance of
a couple of streets. Others there were of bolder
temperament, who retreated indeed from the
open court, but took up their position behind
the angle of some sheltering wall, or within the
governor’s bouse, and from thence maintained
an irregular and dropping fire against the de­
fenders of the fort. Encouraged by then-
example, most of the fugitives regained their
courage, and crept into the governor's mansion
and the guardhouse, which they immediately
began to pillage. Cleveland was not far distant
from the drawbridge when it first fell, and was
carried away by the pressure of the mob.
Finding resistance impossible, he yielded to the
human current, and passed the bridge into the
court; here he was fortunate enough to escape
the effects of the volley which was discharged
from the Bastille. Like every other occupant,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 219
Cleveland felt the imperative necessity of flight;
but retaining more, presence of mind than the
majority, he deemed it sufficient to retreat
beneath the angle of a wall, which afforded him
refuge from the shot. Here the celerity with
which he took up his position, brought him in
rather rough contact with an individual who
had already betaken himself to the same shelter.
As the smoke cleared away, he recognized
Brisseau.
“ Ha !” said the latter; “ this is brave sport—
merry sport is it not? It makes one’s blood
circulate----- ”
“ Humph !” answered Cleveland; " you had
better ask the wounded wretches who are writh­
ing in that court; their gore, at least, is flow­
ing at a handsome rate."
“ Poor devils!” said the other, coolly. " But,
after all, what better use can they put their
l 2
Digitized byGoogle
220 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
lives to? Its their own cause, and that of
liberty; can the soldier say as much ? Die
they must at some time; and the sick-bed has
its pangs as well as yonder court. In five
minutes, few of them will be able to feel the
difference between that pavement, and a couch
of down.”
“ A truce, for God’s sake,” exclaimed Cleve­
land, “ to this unseasonable moralizing. How
many have fallen, think you ? '
“ Some twenty or thirty,” said Brisseau. <
£
I
thought the sluggish dogs of the garrison were
not going to fire at all, and would let us climb
over the wallswithoutinterruption: but, pardieu.f
when they once began, they made up for lost
time, and peppered us to some purpose.”
“ You will never take the Bastille,” observed
Cleveland, despondingly. “ To keep firing st
walls, ten feet thick, with musquet balls, is mere
waste of powder and lead.”
Digitized by Google
DR, THE CHARLATAN. 221
4
4 As the generality of my friends,” replied
Brisseau, 4
4 had the economy to steal both their
weapons and ammunition, they can afford to be
liberal in their use.”
4
4 Is, then, your enterprize,” said Cleveland,
4
4 from which you led me to expect so much, to
terminate in pillaging the outer works of the
Bastille, and discharging a few harmless shot
against its walls ?”
4
4 Not so,” returned Brisseau; 4
4 the Bastille
has a weak side, which you do not dream of.”
4
4 My eyes are certainly not adequate to the
discovery. Pray point it out. Where is it ?”
4
4 In the cowardice and incapacity of its
Governor,” answered Brisseau; 4
4 which exposes
it to greater danger, than a six-yard breach in
its thickest bulwark. The noise of our mus-
quets will sooner or later frighten him into
surrendering.”
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ And supposing/ 9 pursued Cleveland, '< that
you are deceived in this notable expectation,
have you other means of storming the fort ?”
“ Yes,” replied Brisseau. ccA large portion
of the French guards have promised to join us,
if they can escape from their barracks. They
will bring some artillery with them; my grand
object is to keep my amateurs here, until my
professional gentlemen arrive.”
At this moment a fresh crowd of people, pre­
ceded by a large flag* advanced, evidently for
the purpose of holding a parley with the' fort.
When Brisseau observed them, he said to Cleve­
land, “ I must disconeert their negociations, for
a compromise will suit neither of us. We must
have possession of the fort, and nothing less.”
The body of people, alluded to, advanced
into the court; and the garrison, conjecturing
their intentions, grounded their arms, and made
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 223
signs that they would not fire. The deputation
halted. At this critical period, Brisseau, who
had, while talking to Cleveland, reloaded his
piece, crept round the corner, and discharged it
over the heads of the deputation, in the direction
of the drawbridge. The garrison, who thought
that the shot proceeded from the body of people
who carried the flag of truce, were enraged at
the bad faith of the pretended peacemakers, and
fired upon them. Alarmed to find themselves
between two fires, the unlucky deputation, in­
stead of holding a parley, discharged their
musquets at the fort, and then took to their
heels.
The conflict proceeded, but with diminished
vigour on the part of the populace. The gar­
rison now fired without mercy on all within the
range of their guns ; while the peoplecould but
ineffectually return the attack on men who only
a
Digitized by Google -
224 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
showed their heads and shoulders for a moment
above the wall. To shelter themselves from the
shot of their adversaries, the mob bethought
themselves of a veiy silly expedient. Three
waggons, loaded with straw, were drawn into
the court, and set on fire. The thick white
smoke entirely hid both the Bastille and its
assailants and suspended for some time the firing.
“ Morbleu ! Elie,” said Brisseau, to an indi­
vidual attired in old regimentals; “ whose work
is this ? ’
Not mine, certainly/’ replied the other,
shrugging his shoulders; “ what we can gain
by smoke-drying ourselves like salted fish, God
only knows.”
“ Hark, my friend,” said Brisseau, to a man
who was active inbringing the waggons, “ what’s
the object of this bonfire ? ’
“ To hide us,” said the man.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 225
“ A h ! but. it hides the Bastille also, my
friend.”
“ The smoke will annoy the garrison.”
“ Not so much, as it will us.”
The conflagration had become 39 fierce, that
it was impossible to remove the flaming vehicles,
which were therefore allowed to bum themselves
out.
While the whole scene was thus enveloped in
a dense covering of smoke, the besieged took the
opportunity to discharge a cannon loaded with
grape-shot, which produced sad havoc amongst
the crowd. It is remarkable, that this was the
only occasion, during the whole attack, in which
the garrison resorted to the use of their artillery.
Thecauseofthis circumstancehasnever been fully
explained: it seems, however, that the garrison
could not work the cannon on the battlements,
without exposing themselves to the incessant
l 3
Digitized by Google
226 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO5
shower of bullets from their assailants, and that
on this account, they confined their defence to
musketry. Stretching themselves at full length
on the platform, they could gently raise their
gmall arms over the battlements, in the direction
of the crowd, and fire with perfect impunity,
while the latter could not retaliate with the
smallest chance of success. It must be recollect­
ed, that though the walls of the Bastille were
lofty, when measured from their foundation,
yet, that the great depth of the ditch in which the
fort was built, did not permit the ramparts to
rise any considerable height above the level o f
the surrounding streets.
At length, a shout of exultation from the mob,
proclaimed the arrival of new and powerful as­
sistance. A troop of French Guards had burst
from their barracks, and hastened to co-operate
with their unmilitary countrymen, in the glori-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 227
ou8 task of storming the Bastille. They brought
with them two pieces of ordinaiy artillery; an
antique cannon, beautifully embossed with silver,
which they had taken from the Garde-meuble,
and a mortar. With this meagre battering train,
they fell to work with considerable skill, and
bravery. The pieces were pointed against the
posts, and chains, of the second drawbridge, in
the hopes of bringing it down, like the first, and
were served with rapidity and precision.
The scene was more animated and terrific,
than it yet had been.— The flashes of the artillery
showed dull and rod ip, the radiance of the af­
ternoon sun: but the deep booming of the can­
non— thesharpirregularreports ofthe musquetry
— the groans of die wounded— the hurry— the
agony— the confusion— the oaths— imprecations,
entreaties,— above all, the wild rushing, and uni­
versal shout of exultation, which rose, from every
Digitized by -
228 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
member of the infuriated multitude, and in which
the roaring of the artillery was almost loot,
formed a combination of sounds and noises, well
calculated to deprive the mind of all tranquil
thought, and to plunge it into a state of tempos
rary delirium. Even Cleveland, preoccupied as
he was, by other absorbing feelings, could not
withstand the infectious excitement of the spec­
tacle. He forgot the object which brought him
there.— He forgot Antonia for the moment; so
engrossed was he, by the fearful sights and
sounds which pressed upon his senses; when the
heavy tap of Brisseau’s hand upon-his shoulder,
arrested his attention; and he heard that indi­
vidual inquire, in a calm, cold, unaltered voice;
“ What he now thought of the people’s chance of
success? 1 It struck him, even at the moment,
as something frightful, and unnatural that any
human being should be able to preserve his
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 229
habitual calm, and composure, amid such an
overpowering scene.
By a strong mental effort Cleveland sufficient­
ly recalled his mental powers, to enable him to
reply, and he said, “ I think you may now de­
stroy both drawbridges, and gate, and then cross
the ditch on planks; bnt, doubtless they have
planted cannon behind, which sweep the en­
trance, so you will not take the fort, without
the moBt tremendous loss.**
“ True, ” answered Brisseau, ts if the garrison
were determined to defend themselves to the last
gasp; but I have reason to know, they are luke­
warm in the cause. De Launey neither com­
mands their respect, nor their love. I marvel,
they have not compelled him to surrender before
this. ”
“ And what,” inquired Cleveland anxiously,
“ will become of the prisoners ? will the mob
liberate them at once, and dismiss them ?”
Digitized by Google
230 COUHT CAGLIOSTRO :
“ Godonly knows,” repliedBrisaean, in thesame
composedtone,which he had used throughout the
colloquy, “God only knows what these multitudi­
nouskingsofanhourmay take intotheir victorious
noddles. Perhaps, they will deliver.the captives
up to the civil power, to show their magnani­
mous respect for law and order: but do not be
uneasy,” added he, producing a key, “ here are
royal letters of dismissal; I have cared for that
Keep close to me— Antonia’s cell is second in
the tower. I will take the liberty to open it,
whether their Majesties, the populace, like it,
or not.”
“ Thank God !” exclaimed Cleveland, “ but
tell me----- ”
“ What noise is that?” cried Brisse&u, with a
slight appearance of excitement. “ Do you not
hear a drum beating a retreat; and see-----look,
an Invalid is displaying a white flag. B y
heavens! we have won the game. Leave off
Digitized by Google
OB, THE CHARLATAN. 281
firing, my friends,” shouted he, with a voice
like a trumpet, “ the garrison has surrendered!”
This appeal was heard, and obeyed in his
immediate vicinity; but the firing still continued
in front of the crowd. At length, however, the
foremost assailants distinguished a voice speak­
ing from behind the drawbridge. Their fire
slackened, a partial silence was obtained, and a
pause, which strangely contrasted with the din
of the past moment, ensued; and the voice was
heard: “ We will surrender on condition that
we are allowed to march out with the honours
of war.”
An indignant and contemptuous negative
simultaneously burst from the crowd. The
firing, and the confused din of the assault imme­
diately recommenced. At this moment, a letter
was protruded on the pointof a bayonet through
a loop-hole in the shut-up bridge.
Digitized by Google
282 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
<
c Read it ! read it !” shouted the assailants.
The firing again dropped; a plank was pro­
cured, and stretched across the ditch. An ad­
venturous individual advanced, and walked
boldly along the perilous bridge, but his success
was not equal to his courage. He tottered, and
fell into the ditch, where he remained senseless.
A dozen of the assailants on the causeway
struggled for the dangerous honour of fetching
the capitulation. One wore regimentals.
“ Let Elie go ! he has a uniform !” cried the
spectators. The individual alluded to was a
half-pay ensign in the Queen's regiment, who
had been one of the most active leaders of the
populace. He stepped with a collected and
undaunted air on the plank, and though the
frail support bent and quivered under him, like
a reed, his firm nerves sustained the trial. He
took the paper off the bayonet, recrossed the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 238
plank, and read the note. It was a capitulation,
in which the garrison proposed to surrender on
condition that their lives should be spared; it
concluded by saying: “ If you do not accept our
capitulation, we have twenty thousand barrels
of gunpowder in the towers, and we will blow
ourselves, the fort, and the neighbourhood, into
the air.”
“ I accept the capitulation,” shouted Elie,
waving the paper, “ in the name of the French
people.”
The drawbridge was lowered—the crowd
rushed over it in shoals. Brisseau, who had
seen, though not heard, the whole transaction
from the back of the court, observed to Cleve­
land, “ Elie’s old uniform has won us this
surrender. They think, they can trust the mob
if led by a French officer; but some of them, I
suspect, will learn to their cost, that the leader
Digitized by Google
284 COUNT CAOLIOSTRO :
of a mob is not its commander. Now let ns
push on, and if possible keep together.”
Having elbowed their way over the bridge^
they at last gained the interior of the fort, where
a dreadful scene of confusion presented itself.
A large portion of the mob were anxious to
massacre the garrison, *on the plea that no faith
should be kept with the enemies of liberty; but
their military allies stoutly opposed themselves
to this proposition. Their professional feelings
on the subject of quarter, and observing terms,
overcame even the excitement of the hour, and
the fury of their new-born political zeal. A
victorious mob are always cruel, because they
never intend to fight again; but the old soldier,
whose business is war, knows, that the fugitive
of to-day may be the conqueror of to-morrow,
and shows mercy to others, in order that they
may one day show it to him. But no inter-
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 285
ference could protect the Governor, and the
superior officers. In vain Huin,* one of the
bravest leaders of the multitude, endeavoured
to cover him with his own body; the ferocious
mob would not relinquish their prey, and lite­
rally tore him to pieces.
' It is singular, that when the popular liberators
found themselves in possession of the keys of
the Bastille, they were so elated and engrossed
with their triumph, that they instantly set off
to deposit their prize at the H6tel-de-Ville,
quite forgetting, in the meantime, to unlock the
prison doors of the captives they came to dis­
enthral. So easily do the mass, when, engaged
in a conflict, lose all care or memory of what
they are fighting about.
* Afterwards a general under Napoleon. In the affair
of M allet, he was the first person who stopped the progress
of that extraordinary p lo t
Digitized by Google
236 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
The lower part of the rabble had already
betaken themselves to plunder. Forcing them*
selves with difficulty through the crowd, Bris-
seau and Cleveland hastened to the Bazinigre
tower. Unhappily their eager looks had
attracted the attention of one of the plundering
party, who judging that they were in pursuit of
some extraordinarily precious booty, determined
to follow them. A bottle of the Governor’s
wine which he had imbibed, had whetted his
bloody-thirsty and avaricious propensities, with­
out depriving him of the power to do mischief
With rapid steps, Brisseau and his companion
mounted the tower, unconscious oftheir follower,
who kept close behind. They reached the
third story, Brisseau tore the key from his
pocket, and dashed it into the lock— turned it
— threw open the door. Two female figures
were in the room; one of them threw herself
before the other.
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 287
“ Death to De Launey’s daughter,” cried a
voice behind.
Cleveland, and Brisseau, who was armed with
a cutlass, rapidly turned round— the half
drunken ruffian had dropped upon his knee,
and his musket was levelled.
Up rose Brisseau’s weapon on high, and
descended with the velocity of a flash of light­
ning-----it was too late to prevent the discharge
of the musket; but it totally clove the head of the
wretch, who fired it, in twain— the ruffian died
without a groan. Flinging down his sword,
Brisseau darted through the smoke, and kneel­
ing down, raised the unfortunate victim of this
wanton murder from the ground, where she had
sunk. It was no other than the Marchioness
de Montolieu, who had received in her own
breast, the ball most probably destined for her
daughter.
Digitized by Google
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
2S*
Cleveland rushed forward, and clasped die
other female, who was Antonia, in a long em
­
brace.
“ Oh Cleveland! dearest Cleveland!” shrieked
Antonia, “ aid my mother.”
He turned to her wounded companion, and
beheld, with astonishment, Brisseau straining
the bleeding lady to his breast, with looks of
unutterable tenderness and grief. While be
gently supported her with one arm, with the
other he tore off his neckcloth, and fragments of
his linen, to staunch the crimson stream, which
flowed in fatal profusion over her beautiful
bosom.
“ Marchioness— Erminia— ’'gasped the mob
leader with frantic emotion. “ Look up— re­
vive— this is the hour of liberation— victory—
and triumph— You are free— ”
Roused by this appeal, the dying Mar-
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 289
chioness opened her eyes, “ free ?” repeated she
feebly, u who says that I am free ? Ah Cag-
liostro — thanks dearest friend — a thousand
thanks for your kindness and services— I die—
but not unconscious of them— save Antonia—
save my daughter— Antonia— ”
" I am here my mother,” answered the weep­
ing Antonia.
*• I hear your voice, but I cannot see you,
this cell is so dark. Forgive me dearest child ”
Here, Antonia, whose health and strength
had been much affected by the late confinement
of her life, sunk under the agony of the spec­
tacle, and fell senseless into Cleveland’s arms.
Life fleeted fast from the wounded Mar­
chioness; already her soft lustrous eyes were
glazed by the films of death, and her fair head
drooped in utter lifelessness over Brisseau’s
arm. Yet still the la3t remains of vitality which
Digitized by Google
240 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO t
lingered in her brain, continued to repeat theidea
which had predominated there during life, and
she murmured in low faltering tones, u Anto­
nia— save her— save her, Cagiiostro, my beloved
Cagliostro, for my sake.”
Cagiiostro drew his hand from the wound.
The red stream of life no longer issued forth;
he placed his hand upon her heart— it hadceased
to beat.
“ Shall I go, and procure medical assistance?”
asked Cleveland, hardly knowing what he said.
Brisseau heard him not— his whole soul w
as
absorbed in the unconscious form, which he
vainly pressed against his own.
Cleveland repeated his question.
“ For what purpose ?” answered Brisseau, in
the dry husky tones of despair; “ no— no—all
the quacks and drugs in Christendom will never
make her smile again—she is dead, as certainly
Digitized by Google
OR» THE CHARLATAN. 241
as 1 am alive— alive for vengeance. Leave us,
or rather me; for she is nothing now. Leave
me, sir, I entreat you— look to your living
charge, happy man,— and leave me with the
dead! Go, go— I insist, I entreat you.”
Cleveland saw his presence only exasperated
his comrade's agony. He felt that his own
lovely burthen required attention and assistance.
Stripping off the cloak and red cap of the
slaughtered ruffian, who was still lying on the
floor, he placed them on Antonia, and, leaving
the sad scene within the cell, slowly and cau­
tiously descended the tower stairs. The in­
terior of the Bastille he found in the same state
of uproar and agitation in which he had left it.
The crowd offered him no opposition but what
was naturally caused by their numbers and con­
fusion. Nobody seemed inclined to dispute the
task of assisting a wounded fellow-creature:
VOL. III. M
Digitized by Google
242 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
purely charitable offices have seldom many com­
petitors. Hugging his precious burthen to his
heart, Cleveland crossed the bridge in triumph.
Hie way was now comparatively clear, although
still densely crowded.
A fiacre presented itself, winch he instantly
engaged. In the vehicle Antonia recovered
her consciousness. There is reason to think
that she had recovered it before, but did not
care to manifest the fact Perhaps, after long
absence, she felt it sweet to be borne along on
the bosom she loved, and did not wish to disturb
a situation which was not without its charms.
Cleveland gazed on the lovely being with
looks of unutterable content, and straining her
yielding, unresisting, form to his heart, he mur­
mured in a broken voice: “ Once more mine:
Antonia, we will never part; let us swear it.
Dearest, dearest, is this reality ? Clasp my
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN* 243
hand to convince me that I am not dreaming—
my happiness feels almost too great to be tru e .*'
Antonia did not speak; she tenderly encircled
her lover's hand in her soft and fairy fingers,
whose eloquent and thrilling pressure assured
him of all that words could never yet express.
Her cheek reclined on his bosom; it was a
moment of boundless rapture— one of those
redeeming minutes which console us for the
long heavy hours of our common ordinary exist­
ence. Oh ! those faint delicious throbs, which
excite the heart, until life seems as if it would
sink under excess of enjoyment, and we can
hardly distinguish the agony of pleasure from
pain. Brief but intense instants ! which we can
hardly support in the passage, yet when once
passed, we would give worlds to recall.
Oh fortune! give me back the happy time
m 2
Digitized byGoogle
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
244
when I was a lover, and I will pay for the few
short hours with years of gratified ambition !
“ Can you guess whither I am taking you IT
asked Cleveland.
“ I know not— I care not,” replied Antonia,
“ I am with you, and that is sufficient— I am
content— I have no fears for myself— it is for
my mother, that I am anxious. It is hard to
say in the first joy of our meeting— leave roe ;
but pray tell me where my mother is.”
“ Alas f my beloved,” returned Cleveland,
“ the unhappy lady whom you call mother, is
beyond the reach of human assistance.”
Antonia’s eyes began to fill afresh at the
announcement of this calamity, but Cleveland
kissed away her tears, and sympathized in her
sorrow with such deep tenderness, that Antonia
could not refuse to be comforted. And the
blow, which falling on her at another time,
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 245
would have prostrated her in the dust, was now
borne with temperate sorrow.
The next day found Cleveland and Antonia
engaged in the delightful task of mutual expla*
nation. They had a thousand hopes to com­
municate—a thousand feelings to unfold— a
thousand misapprehensions to clear up. Hour
after hour flew unconsciously away, while each
sat listening to the other, indulging in that
charming egotism, so delightful to wooers, and
so tiresome to everybody else; when their con­
versation was interrupted by the sound of a
violent affray in the street. Cleveland went to
the window,and beheld a spectacle which rivetted
him to the spot A coronetted carriage, which
he immediately recognized to be the Duke de
Fronsac’s, was surrounded by a huge collection
of the lowest rabble, who seemed bent on ob­
structing the progress of the vehicle, and insisted
Digitized byGoogle
246 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
that its owner should descend and submit to be
searched. The haughty noble inside, who was
no other than the Duke de Fronsac, without
deigning to answer the popular suspicions, or to
soothe the irritation of the mob, shouted, in a
tone of the loftiest contempt, reiterated orders
to the coachman to proceed.
The coachman, who saw the impossibility of
making any farther progress, without driving
over the already exasperated mob, turned round
to his master, and suggested in a low tone the
prudence of yielding to the requisitions o f the
people. This appeal only inflamed the Duke's
indignation. “ Drive on, Francis,” exclaimed
he, c
<I command you, drive on, coward— at
your peril dare to hesitate.”
The coachman gave his horses a furious lash.
The high-spirited animals reared, sprang for­
ward, and trampled in the dust two or three
Digitized byGoogle
OR) THE CHARLATAN. 247
individuals, who were attempting to bold their
heads. At this moment, a savage wretch
plunged the blade of a cane sword in the side
pf the near horse. The poor animal sunk on
the pavement. The mob seemed excited, like
tigers, at the sight of blood; and the most
horrid cries and imprecations burst from them.
“ Open the door— tear him out; he is carrying
intelligence to Broglio. It is easier to bring
him to justice now, than when he is at the head
pf his regiment. To the lamp with him. Let
us see the colour of the aristocrat's heart!
Trample him to pieces !”
Unfortunately for himself, the Due de Fronsac
entertained a very ridiculous opinion respecting
the cowardice of the common people. Accus­
tomed to see his inferiors and dependents
tremble in his presence, he forgot that the
timidity of such men proceeded from moral
Digitized byGoogle
248 COUNT CAGUOSTKO 5
baseness rather than from animal fear; and that
this moral baseness was nothmg more than a
repetition, on a lower and coarser scale, of die
servility which he himself displayed at court.
He fancied that an enraged mob would take
to their heels at the sight of a pistol.
wPierre— Francis !” cried the Duke, almost
hoarse with fury; “ use your weapons— stand
t>y me. Give back, scoundrel I" said the Duke,
to a ruffian who opened the carriage and puBed
down the steps. “ The first who mounts that
step is a dead man.”
Two sturdy ruffians instantly answered the
menace by springing into the carriage. The
Duke was as good as his word— he fired. An
assailant fell back mortally wounded. His com*
rade threw him under the wheels, and repeated
his attempt. The second assailant succeeded in
grappling with the Duke, and prevented him
Google
Digitized by
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 249
from drawing forth his other pistol. The
wretched nobleman was dragged from his car­
riage, and exposed to the fall fury of a merciless
mob. They flew upon him, like a pack of
wild wolves upon a single dog; they dragged
him through the kennel, then raised him in
their arms. They tore him to fragments with
their fingers,— limb was twisted from limb;
and though a hundred deadly weapons were
directed against him, such was the blind ferocity
of the murderers, that not a single blow took
full effect.
The whole scene passed in a much shorter
time than is requisite for its description. Cleve­
land, who had at first regarded the affair as a
mere ebullition of public disgust against an
unpopular individual, which would end in a few
handfuls of mud being thrown upon the carriage,
was inexpressibly horrified, when he beheld the
m 8
Digitized byGoogle'
£ 5 0 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO :
fearful extremities to which the mob were evi­
dently proceeding.
His first impulse was to fly to the Duke’s
assistance; but the crowd was so dense that he
could not hope to reach the Duke’s carriage;
and supposing that he overcame the intervening
obstacles, what would avail his single strength
against that of an infuriated multitude. Nor
was, indeed, the Duke’s conduct towards those
who were most dear to Cleveland, calculated to
induce the latter to risk his own life, under cir­
cumstances where all attempt at interference
seemed so hopeless.
Hardly knowing what to do, he remained
chained to the spot. But his blood froze within
him, when he saw the Duke fell into the hands
of his assailants. He dashed open the window,
and shouted an indignant remonstrance to the
assassins below. They heeded him as little as
Digitized byGoogle
OR, THE CHARLATAN. «51
so many wild blasts, devouring their prey, would
have regarded the singing of a bird on a branch
above. He could not turn away from the scene.
Its very excess of horror seemed to fascinate his
senses. Yet amid the sickening disgust, which
the spectacle of a cowardly and deliberate
murder inspired him with, he was struck by the
undaunted courage of the victim. Not a single
cry for mercy escaped him. Though completely
in the power of his tormentors, and mangled
and mutilated in the most shocking manner,
defiance and scorn of his foes seemed to animate
his breast Still he struggled against their
cruelties with desperate but ineffectual efforts;
until Cleveland observed one of his assailants
clasp him round the neck, and whisper some­
thing in his ear. The man then dashed him on
the ground, and strode away. By change he
turned his face towards the window where
Digitized byGoogle
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO Z
269
Cleveland was standing, and the latter recog­
nized Brisseau.
A striking change had taken place in the
dying Duke's demeanour. He no longer offered
the slightest resistance: he seemed insensible to
the savage blows and stabs which were showered
on him from every side. A fearful expression
of inward terror occupied his fixed and g la s s y
eyes; and in this state he remained, until be
expired under the barbarous treatment w h ic h
was inflicted on him.
The horrid spectacle he had just witnessed,
and the conviction that the present disturbance
was only the forerunner of still more fearful
convulsions, concurred with many other reasons
to hasten Cleveland's departure from France.
As soon as tranquillity was restored in Paris,
he obtained passports for Monsieur and Madame
Cleveland, and set off for his native country
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 259
accompanied by Antonia. He experienced no
obstacle in reaching England; where he was
soon after his arrival united to Antonia, accord­
ing to the ceremonies both of the Romish and
Protestant churches.
O f the other characters of our story, we
have but little to say. Of Cagliostro, or rather
Jean Brisseau, nothing more was ever heard
or known; and whether he rose to eminence in
the revolution under some fresh appellation, or
whether he lived a quiet retired life on the
results of his a priori system of philosophy,
cannot be ascertained. In the year 1794, an
adventurer of the name of Cagliostro was ap­
prehended at Rome, and sentenced to perpetual
imprisonment. But this personage is certainly
not identical with the hero of our story, who
had long ceased to bear the tide. It was more
i
Digitized by Google
2 6 4 COUNT CAGLIOSTRO:
probably some disciple, who thus paid the
penalty of his presumption, in assuming the
name without the abilities or resources of his
master.
Count lyOstalis fell a victim to the extreme
beauty of his silk stockings. In the early part
of the revolution, he happened to be passing
one day down the Rue St. Honorfe. The deli­
cate flesh-coloured lustre of these elegant ap­
pendages to the lower man, roused the republi­
can bile of a band of poissardes, who were
parading the street. An enthusiastic citizeness
belonging to this body, unable to endure the
exasperating and anti-revolutionary spectacle
of a pair of perfectly clean silk integuments,
crept behind the unfortunate Count, and thrust
him through the back with a pike; for the
express purpose, as she afterwards informed the
Digitized by Google
OR, THE CHARLATAN. 255
world, of soiling the aristocrat’s new stockings.
The Marquis de Montolieu formed a part of
the daily batches, which Robespierre sent to the
guillotine. *
FINIS.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
NOTES.
Digitized by
Digitized by GoogI
NOTES.
The Affair o f the Necklace.
F rom the many voluminous memoirs which have
been written on this subject, the following brief
sketch has been compiled, which it is hoped will
enable the reader to understand the extracts sub­
sequently quoted.
Soon after Louis’ accession to the throne, Boemer,
the Court jeweller, offered to his sovereign for sale a
diamond necklace, valued at seventy thousand pounds
sterling. The King conferred with his wife; and
the royal pair declined the purchase, saying, that
they had more need of ships than diamonds. Not­
withstanding this refusal, Boemer kept the necklace
Digitized by Google
iv NOTES.
by for some years, displaying all the tim e an almost
frantic anxiety to find a buyer. The knowledge of
these circumstances suggested to the mind of an
unprincipled adventuress, named Lamotoe, the scheme
of an imposture, which, for consummate audacity and
reckless villainy, has never been surpassed in the
annals of crime. She was a descendant o f the House
of Valois, though her immediate ancestors had fallen
into the lowest depths of poverty. The Court, in
compassion to her royal descent, allowed her a small
pension. She became acquainted with the Cardinal
de Rohan, who, struck by her air and address, and
the circumstances of her birth, took much notice of
her. The Cardinal, who had given offence some
time previously to the Queen, was at this period
excluded from all Court favour, and often lamented
the fret in conversation. Madame L&motte had the
address to make him believe that she was an intimate
friend of the Queen, and often enjoyed the honour
of private interviews with her. The Cardinal en­
treated her to mention him favourably to her royal
mistress. Lamotte, finding him such air easy dupe,
Digitized by Google
NOTES. v
began to attempt a still grosser imposition. She
assured him that Marie Antoinette secretly wished
to buy the necklace, and had only forborne to do so
out of deference to her husband’s economical inclina­
tions. She then proposed to the Cardinal, as a
means of gaining the Queen’s favour, that he should
negociate the purchase of the necklace with Boemer
on her account. The Cardinal expressed his delight
at the scheme, provided he was assured of the
Queens acquiescence in the affair. The infamous
Lamotte produced forged notes and letters in abund­
ance, together with a specific order, purporting to be
signed by the Queen, empowering him to purchase
the necklace on her account. Armed with these
documents, he repaired to Boemer. The jeweller
proved a greater gull than the Cardinal. The ardent
hopes and wishes of these men, the one to regain
the Queens favour,.the other to dispose of his
jewels, seem to have deprived them of all ordinary
prudence, and to have inspired them with the most
boundless credulity. Boemer transferred the neck­
lace to the Cardinal, who delivered it, as he ima-
Digitized by Google
vi MOTES.
gined, Into the Queen's own hands. Madame La-
motte had observed in the Palais R oyal a young
female, who strikingly resembled th e Queen in
external appearance. For a small rew ard, she was
easily induced to personate the character o f Marie
Antoinette. She does not appear to hare been
admitted into the secret of the plot, but to have
believed that she was acting a part, at th e Queens
desire, in a hoax played on the Cardinal. The
locality chosen for this scene was a retired summer­
house in the park at Versailles. The tim e dusk.
Trembling with hope and eagerness, the Cardinal
sunk at the feet of the fictitious Marie Antoinette,
and presented her with the necklace. The Queen,
in a low and stifled voice, muttered her gratitude,
and hoped that circumstances would soon allow her
to publicly show him that favour which his obliging
behaviour had already excited in her breast. Steps
were heard approaching. The false Queen started;
and exclaiming that her brother-in-law, the Comte
d*Artois, was coming to see her, ran off with the
Digitized by Google
NOTES. vii
casket containing the necklace, leaving the Cardinal
overwhelmed with joy at his gracious reception.
Boemer, receiving no money, grew uneasy, and
applied in an indirect manner to the Queen. She,
not understanding his hints, demanded explanation.
An eclaircissement ensued. Boemer declared that
the Cardinal de Rohan had purchased his necklace
on behalf of the Queen. The Cardinal, when sum­
moned to explain, gave up Madame Lamotte as his
authority. The latter pretended to brazen the
matter out, and averred that she had given the neck­
lace to a valet of the Queen; but the man, when
examined, flatly denied the fact. All the parties
concerned were sent to the Bastille, and ultimately
tried before the Parliament of Paris; who, to the
indignation of the Court, acquitted the Cardinal,
Cagliostro, and Mademoiselle D’
Oliva (the girl who
personated the Queen) ; and sentenced Madame
Lamotte to be whipped, branded, and imprisoned.
The part which Cagliostro took in the affair, con­
sisted in abusing the influence he possessed over the
Digitized by Google
viii NOTES.
Cardinals mind, and in predicting to the credulous
prelate' that he would reap immortal honour and
glory by undertaking the negotiation proposed by
Madame Lamotte.
E x tr a c t* re s p e c tin g th e a f f a ir o f t h e n e c k la c e ,
c o n ta in in g h is to ric a l illu s tr a tio n s o f th e
c h a ra c te r o f C o u n t C a g lio s tro .
On the Saturday, the Cardinal returned from Ver­
sailles without having seen the Queen; having bees
told that she was taken suddenly ill with a violent
headache, and obliged to go to bed: but at the
same time a paper was given to him from her,
“ which (said he) seals the confidence her Majesty
has in me/’
A third appointment failed, in like manner, under
the pretence of the Queen’s being with the Dauphin,
who was indisposed; but on putting him off for
another week, he was told that her Majesty had the
greatest plans in view for him, and was thinking of
Digitized by Google
N O TES. IX
nothing less than having him made Prime Minister.
So far was he from not believing it, that he was
alarmed by anticipation at the burden and difficulties
of so important an office. I, too, from this moment,
became uneasy, but from very different motives: I
was afraid that this affair, still enveloped in so much
mystery, might prove to be some court intrigue,—
some abominable snare laid for the Cardinal. I told
him my fears, which he turned into ridicule.
4
<What I (said he) do you take me for a child, or an
idiot?”—“ No, certainly; but without being either
the one or the other, you may be too sanguine—too
easily imposed upon.” “ Well! well! come, in
spite of all your incredulity, I will convince you;
but give me your word not to speak to any soul
alive of what I am going to tell you.”—“ You may
depend upon me.”
— " Let us go into my closet
You know that the Queen is very fond of fine dia­
monds. Some time ago a magnificent necklace waff
shown to her, which she immediately longed to
have; but the King thought it too dear, and
would not buy it. Still she longed to have it.
v o l . i n . N
Digitized by Google
X NOTES.
As she coaid not pay for it but by instalments*
- . n
and with frequent delays, of which the jewellers
would not run the risk, it was necessary to find some
person very secure in every respect, who would
secretly make the purchase for her Majesty, and
who was in a situation to answer to the tradesmen
for the payments. The friend, of whom I have
spoken to you, pointed me out, and undertook to
make the proposal to me. I embraced it, without
hesitation, as you will readily imagine; and this is
the state of things. Well I Mr. Incredulous ! what
say you now ?”—“ I say that I cannot comprehend
it at all. How can the Queen, who has all the
diamonds in the crown at her command, have so
great a desire for this necklace ?”—“ How ? because,
perhaps, in all the diamonds of the crown so perfect
an assortment could not be made: I tell you there
cannot be finer seen.”—“ Be it so; but what can she
do with the necklace? for, as the King thought it
too dear, she certainly will not think of wearing it
in his presence; and in his presence she is, or may
be, every moment.”—“ I cannot tell you whether she
will or will not wear it; perhaps she may wish to
Digitized by Google
NOTES* xi
make a present of it, or to keep it locked up until
she has a favourable moment of gaining the King’
s
approbation of the purchase. I cannot say, and it
does not become me to question her on those topics.'’
—“ Certainly not; but I hope, at least, that you will
not conclude this affair without having seen the
Queen."—“ Doubtless not: see her, I must, to deliver
the necklace to her.”— “ Is everything already
settled with the jewellers ?”—“ Oh, yes I I will show
you the agreement, signed by her Majesty, and all
the articles approved in the margin by her, for I see
you do not believe a word of what I am telling you."
—“ Pardon me, but in affairs so nice as this I am
fond of having things upon paper.”—“ Do you know
the Queen s writing ?” said he to me, as he showed
me a slight paper book, which he took out of his
desk.—“I do not," I replied: but your Eminence
ought to know it well.”—“ Oh, perfectly. Read 1
read!” I ran my eyes hastily over the conditions of
this agreement, which wassigned “ Marie Antoinette
tie France” and I certainly saw in the margin,
opposite each article, the word approved, written in a
Digitized by Google
XII NOTES.
small regular hand, like the signature. “ Well 1”
said he, with a satisfied air, “ do you begin to see
clear 7 *
—“ I see,” said I, “ If this be the Queen’s
writing, that she writes a pretty little hand; but 1
think you have undertaken a very ticklish commis­
sion.”—“ You will change your opinion when you
see the sequel; have patience till this day eight
days, for I am positively to see the Queen next
week.”
This certainly had no other foundation than the
same promises with which the Cardinal had been
kept in suspense for six weeks before. He went to
Versailles, and returned without seeing her Majesty;
the reason given was, that the King had passed the
whole evening with her; and the Cardinal admitted
this account with an ease and confidence that
astonished me. I expressed great uneasiness to him
it his situation. “ And has not the Queen even
written to you ?” said I. “ Have you not a single
letter from her on this business ?"—“ N o; but she
has made her friend write to me, and that’s the same
thing. I will show you a letter that will satisfy you.”
Digitized by Google
NOTES. xiii
He opened a small press, in an angle between the
fireplace and the window, and, taking out a handful
of letters, read me one of them, about a page and
a half long. It was an inexplicable piece of ambi­
guity, which I had no sooner read, than I said to the
Cardinal, with warmth, “ If it be not, my Lord, the
most respectable woman in the kingdom who has
written this letter, you are most shamefully played
upon. What does all this signify? There are
expressions in it which may apply to some circum­
stances relative to the necklace when we know them;
but they may as well, and better, be applied to a
hundred other stories: in short, this letter is so
inapplicable, that, happen what will, you can make
no use of it; and I am convinced that the person
who wrote it had this in view.”—“ Sir I do not talk
in that manner. You would speak very differently
if you knew how much that person is in every respect
above all suspicion; besides, have not you seen the
agreement, signed and approved by the Queen ?”—
“ Yes; but as I am unacquainted with her Majesty’s
n 2
Digitized by Google
xiv NOTES.
writing, which may very well have been forged,
and also with the lady so estimable, who may be
much less so than you imagine,—I am more appre­
hensive than ever that this affair may turn out very
troublesome to you. There is but one thing that
can remove my fears; and that is, as you have not
yet delivered the necklace, (hat you promise me, and
I conjure you, not to part with it but to the Queen
herself.”—“ I do promise you, and so you may be
easy: indeed, you would be perfectly so, if you
knew the name of the person; all I can tell you is,
that there is not a more distinguished one in the
kingdom.”
Two days after this I went into Brittany, where I
had not been more than six weeks, before I learned,
by the public papers, that the Cardinal was arrested,
without any particulars of the cause of so extra­
ordinary an event; but it was not difficult for me to
guess it.— Memoirs o f Bertrand de Molevilie.
Digitized by Google
MOTES. XV
From the Memoirs o f the AbbG Georgel (Secre­
tary to the Cardinal R ohanJ
I n th e m ean tim e, an u n fo rtu n ate circu m stan ce
co n trib u ted to h u rry th e C ardinal still m o re u n fo r­
tu n ately into e x trao rd in ary adv entures. I do n ot
know w hat m onster, envious o f th e tran q u illity o f
h on est m en, h ad v om itted fo rth upon o u r co u n try
an en thu siastic em piric — a new apostle o f th e
religion o f n atu re, w ho created con v erts in the
m ost d espo tic m ann er, an d su b jected th em entirely
to his influence.
Some speedy cures effected in cases that were
pronounced incurable, and fatal in Switzerland and
Strasburgh, spread the name of Cagliostro far and
wide, and raised his renown to that of a truly miracu­
lous physician. His attention towards the poor and
his contempt for the rich, gave his character an
air of superiority and interest which excited the
greatest enthusiasm. Those whom he chose to
honour with his familiarity, left his society in
Digitized by Google
NOTES.
XTi
ecstacy at his transcendent qualities. The Cardinal
de Rohan was at his residence at Saverne, when the
Count de Cagliostro astonished Strasburgh and all
Switzerland with his conduct, and the extraordinary
cures he performed. Curious to see so remarkable
a personage, the Cardinal went to Strasbuigh. It
was found necessary to use interest to be admitted
to the Count. “ If M. le Cardinal is sick,” said he,
“ let him come to me and I will cure him: if he be
well, he has no business with me, nor have I with
him.” This reply, far from giving offence to the
vanityof the Cardinal, only increased the desirehehad
to be acquainted with him. At length, having gained
admission to the sanctuary of this new Esculaphis,
he saw, as he has since declared, on the countenance
of this uncommunicative man, a dignity so imposing,
that he felt himself penetrated by religious awe, and
that his first words were inspired by reverence.
This interview, which was very short, excited more
strongly than ever the desire of a more intimate
acquaintance. At length it was obtained, and the
crafty empiric timed his conduct and his advances
Digitized by Google
NOTES. xvii
so well, that at length, without seeming to desire
it, he gained the entire confidence of the Cardinal,
and possessed the greatest ascendancy over him.
“ Your soul,” said he one day to the Cardinal, “ is
worthy of mine, and you deserve to be the confidant
of all my secrets.” This declaration captivated
all the intellectual faculties and feelings of a man,
who at all times, had run after the secrets of che­
mistry and botany.
• • • • * #
After detailing the intrigues of Madame Lamotte,
the Abbe Georgel reverts to the influence which
Cagliostro exercised over the Cardinal.
Cagliostro, at that time recently arrived at Paris,
was consulted. This Python mounted his tripod.
The Egyptian invocations were made at night,
illuminated by an immense number of wax tapers,
in the Cardinal’s own room. The oracle, under the
inspiration of its familiar demon, pronounced that
the negotiation was worthy of the prince, that it
would be crowned with success, that it would raise
the goodness of the Queen to its height, and bring
Digitized by Google
xviH NOTES.
to light that happy day which would unfold'the
rare talents of the Cardinal for the benefit o f
France and the human race. I am writing facts,
though it may be imagined that I am only relating
fictions. I should think so myself, were I not cer­
tain of the statements that I make. Be it as it may,
the advice of Cagliostro dissipated all the Cardinal's
apprehensions, and H was decided that he should
acquit himself as soon as possible of a commission,
which was regarded as equally honourable and
flattering.
F ro m th e M e m o irs o f M a d a m e C a m p o n .
Madame dk L amotte, wishing to gratify at once
heirhatredand revenge, declared, on her first examina­
tion, that the Count di Cagliostro was the contriver
of the fraud of the necklace; that he had persuaded
the Cardinal to purchase it. She insinuated that it
was taken to pieces by this Italian or Sicilian Count
and his wife; and that they alone reaped the profits
of it This declaration, supported by a thousand
Digitized by Google
NOTES* xix
o(herfalsehoods,which unfortunately,howeverabsurd,
lyprq but too great an appearance of probability,
caused the singular personage implicated in it to be
sppt, to the Bastille, along with the woman who
resided with him. The latter remained there nearly
eight jnonths; and the pretended Count did not
cpme out until after the suit was decided.
It is certain that the Cardinal de Rohan was
credulous enough to place the greatest confidence in
this empirical alchymist, who had assured him, that
it was possible to make gold, and to transmute small
diamonds into large precious stones; but he only
cheated the Cardinal out of large sums, under pre­
tence of developing to him the rarest secrets of the
Rosicrusians and other madmen, who have im­
plicitly believed, or pretended to believe, the absurd
folly of the philosophers stone, the elixir of life, &c.
Thus the Cardinal saw part of his money evaporate
in the smoke of crucibles, and part found its way
into the pockets of the sharper, who passed himself
off as a great alchymist.
When this person was examined by the Court
Digitized by Google
XX NOTES.
touching the affair of the necklace, he made his
appearance before the magistrates, dressed in green,
embroidered with gold; his locks were curled from
the top of his head, and fell in little curb down his
shoulders, which gave him a most singular appear­
ance, and completed his resemblance to a mounte­
bank. “ Who are you ?—whence came you ?” he
was asked. “ I am a noble traveller,” was his
reply* At these words every countenance relaxed;
and seeing this appearance of good humour, the
accused entered boldly on his defence. He inter­
larded his jargon with Greek, Arabic, Latin, and
Italian; his looks, his gestures, his vivacity, were as
amusing as his speech. He withdrew, very well
pleased with having made his judges laugh.
LO X D O X :
« . B IC K A B D 3, rR lW T E B , 100, ST. M A BTIX'S LA N K , C N A ttlX G CBOSS.
Digitized by Google
