{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__frazer___the_fear_of_the_dead____v2.pdf","mytitle":"The Fear Of The Dead","mylang":"de"}
THE
f - 3 -
FEAR OF THE DEAD
IN PRIMITIVE RELIGION
LECTURES DELIVERED ON
THE WILLIAM WYSE FOUNDATION
AT TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE
CHSCKF.Q 1963
BY
IR J A M E S G E O R G E F R A Z E R
O.M., F.R.S., F.B.A.
FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE'
ASSOCIATE MEMBER OF THE INST1TUT DE FRANCE
MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
ST. MARTIN’S STREET, LONDON
1934
COPYRIGHT
--------------- -----------
Aee. No,
/ / / / 6
Class No. |
Book No.
^ ___ . : .-
.. / r —
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY R. & R, CLARK, LIMITED, EDINBURGH
TO
THE M ASTER, THE W ARDEN
AND THE
BROTHERS a n d SISTERS
OF THE
D RAPERS’ COM PANY
THIS VOLUME IS GRATEFULLY
AND RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED
BY
T H E A U T H O R
P R E F A C E
In this second course of lectures on the “ Fear of
the Dead in Primitive Religion ” I resume the
subject at the point at which I left off at the end of
the first course. I said there that primitive man
attempts to get rid of the dangerous spirits of the
dead by one or other of two methods, either the
method of persuasion and conciliation or the method
of force and fraud. In the first course I illustrated
the former method, that of persuasion and con­
ciliation, by a variety of examples. I now take up
the. second method, that of force and fraud, or
deception. For primitive man imagines that the
spirits of the dead are not only amenable to physical
force, but that they can be deceived or cheated into
doing his will. In the present course I have dealt
mainly with the method of force, showing how
primitive man attempts to drive away the spirits of
the dead by sheer physical force, and to keep them
at a distance by interposing physical obstacles
between him and them. The method of fraud or
deception practised on the spirits of the dead has
been incidentally illustrated ; but this curious aspect
of primitive religion must be reserved for fuller
vii
PREFACE
treatment in a subsequent work, in which I shall
hope to discuss many other important sides of the
subject, which the limitations of time have com­
pelled me to pass over at present. Meanwhile this
volume concludes the second course of my lectures
on the William Wyse Foundation at Trinity College.
J. G. FRAZER
viii
April 1934
C O N T E N T S
Pr e f a c e ................................................... P. vii
Lecture I ........................................... P. 3
Recapitulation of former lectures. The belief in immortality almost universal
among mankind, but among the lower races the spirits of the dead
are feared rather than loved. Certain exceptions to this fear noted.
The modes adopted by primitive man for getting rid of the spirits
of the dead are either fair or foul, according as they depend either
on persuasion and conciliation or on force and fraud. The former
method was described in the last of the preceding lectures, it remains
to treat of the foul method by means of force and fraud. Ghosts
after death driven away by force, illustrated by examples drawn from
Australia, Melanesia, Polynesia, Micronesia, New Guinea, Siberia,
Thibet, India, Burma, Madagascar, Africa, America and Europe.
Lecture II . . . . . . . P. 27
Precautions to prevent the return of the banished ghost. Roads barricaded
'• against the return of the ghost. Examples drawn from Siberia, India,
Burma, Tonkin, Borneo, New Guinea, Africa, America. Special
barriers against ghosts, by means of water and fire. The barrier of
water illustrated by examples from Australia, Nias, the Ainu of
Japan, Burma, India, Africa, New Guinea, Celebes, New Zealand,
Tahiti, Ceylon, America and Europe.
Lecture III . . . . . . P. 53
Barrier by fire against the return of the spirits of the dead, illustrated by
examples from Siberia, Thibet, China, India, Nicobar Islands,
Africa, America and Europe. Other modes of preventing the return
of the spirits of the dead by tying up or mutilating or maiming
their bodies. Examples of tying up the corpse for this purpose
drawn from Australia, Borneo, Burma, India, Central Asia, Russia,
Africa, America. Modes of preventing the return of the spirits of
the dead by breaking their bones or otherwise mutilating and maiming
their dead bodies. Examples drawn from Australia, Africa, America,
Celebes and India.
ix
!
CONTENTS
Lecture I V .......................................P. 75
Attempts of primitive man to prevent the return of the spirits of the Dead f
by mutilating and maiming their bodies, illustrated by further I
examples from Africa, America and Europe, and Armenia. Attempts I
of primitive man to prevent the return of the spirits of the dead by
actually destroying the spirits. Examples drawn from the Chatham f
Islands, Polynesia, Fiji and Africa.
Lecture V .............................................. P-97 >
Other devices of primitive man to prevent the return of the spirits of the
dead, illustrated by miscellaneous examples from Halmahera, Nias,
New Guinea, Torres Straits Islands, Polynesia, Filipine Islands,
Malay Peninsula, Siam, Burma, Chittagong, India, North-East Asia,
Africa, America and Europe.
Lecture VI . . . . . P. 119
Another method adopted by primitive man to prevent the return of the
spirits of the Dead is to destroy their property, so as to offer them no
inducement for coming back to claim and enjoy it. Fatal economic
effects of this destruction of the property of the Dead. The custom
illustrated by examples drawn from Australia, Melanesia, Polynesia,
New Guinea, Nicobar Islands, Tonkin, Kamschatka, India, Africa 1
and America. Observations of the French traveller d’Orbigny on tjie
disastrous effects of the destruction of the property of the dead as *
practised by the Patagonians. Conclusion.
(
Index. . ............................... P. 139 j
L E C T U R E I
LECTURE I
In my former lectures on the fear of the dead in
primitive religion, I reached or anticipated certain
general conclusions which it may be well to re­
capitulate before I proceed to develop the subject in
further detail. We saw that the belief in immor­
tality, or to speak more correctly, the belief in the sur­
vival of human personality for an indefinite time after
death, has been widespread if not universal among
mankind, being shared by the races of lower culture,
whom we call savages or barbarians, as well as by
the .civilized nations who now cherish the belief as
a fundamental article of their religious creed. But
among the races of lower culture, who may be called
primitive in a relative sense by comparison with the
civilized nations, the spirits of the dead appear to be
predominantly feared rather than loved, for they are
believed to be the sources of many evils which
afflict humanity, including the last evils, sickness
and death. Hence, primitive man is often at great
pains to send these dangerous spirits away and to
keep them at a safe distance from him. A t the same
time, I pointed out in my lectures, and I desire now
to repeat, that this fear of the dead appears to be by
3
4 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
no means characteristic in the same degree of all the
races of men, even those of lower culture, for many
of them observe customs which appear to be in­
consistent with such a fear, and to indicate rather
respect and affection for the souls of the departed.
Thus, for example, many peoples have been ac­
customed to welcome home the spirits of the dead
and entertain them at a great festival once a year,
of which the rites of All Souls’ Day in Europe
have furnished a conspicuous instance down to
modern times.1 Again, many peoples have been in
the habit of burying their dead in their houses ; a
practice which is hardly consistent with a deep-
seated fear of the dead and a dread of close contact
with them. Other peoples, again, though they do
not bury the dead in the house, attempt to bring
back their spirits to the house and to install them
there, which incontestably proves that they expect
to reap some benefit from the presence of the spirits
in the dwelling. For it is commonly supposed that
the spirits of the dead can confer many benefits on
the living, if only they are duly propitiated, and kept
in good humour, though they are quick to resent
any fancied slight or neglect on the part of the sur­
vivors. Among the benefits so anticipated appears
to be the hope that the spirits will ultimately be re-
bom in the infants of the family. Once more, the
practice of embalming the bodies of the dead, as has
been well pointed out by Mr. Warren Dawson,2
1 I have collected many examples pp. 51 sqq.
of such festivals in The Golden Bough, 2 Warren R. Dawson in Folk-
Part IV. Adonis> Attis, Osiris, ii. Lore, xliv. (December 1933) p. 416.
LECTURE I S
undoubtedly aims at preserving the bodies of the
dead, and presumably, therefore, their spirits, for an
indefinite time after death, which would certainly
not be done if the living did not expect to receive
some benefit from the continued existence of the
dead. The classic land of embalming was ancient
Egypt, and in its extant literature, as I am informed
by our eminent English Egyptologist, Mr. Alan H.
Gardiner, there is very little trace of a fear of the
dead. To sum up : the attitude of primitive man
to the spirits of the dead is complex; it is a com­
pound of hope and fear, of affection and aversion,
of attraction and repulsion, and in any attempt to
analyse it, full account should be taken of all these
conflicting emotions and tendencies. But in investi­
gating our complex subject it is legitimate, I trust,
to single out some one particular element of the
compound for special examination. That must be
my justification for here concentrating attention on
the element of fear in the attitude of primitive man
towards the spirits of the dead.
In my last lecture, I dealt with the means which
primitive man adopts for banishing the dangerous
spirits of the dead and keeping them at a distance.
I said that these means fall into two classes, which
may be distinguished respectively as fair or foul,
according as they are based on either persuasion and
conciliation, or on force and fraud. When the
method of persuasion and conciliation is adopted,
the ghost is invited or entreated to go quietly away
to the spirit-land and to stay there, not returning
6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
to torment the living with his unwelcome attentions.
He is provided with directions for the journey to the
spirit-land and with a guide to conduct him thither :
he receives food to eat and money to defray his
expenses on the road ; and he is furnished with a
bridge or a boat to enable him to cross any rivers
or seas which he may encounter on his passage to
the far country. But in the opinion of many
primitive peoples, there are obdurate and ob­
streperous spirits who, turning a deaf ear to blandish­
ments and a blind eye to the accommodations
obligingly offered them for the journey, obstinately
persist in haunting their old home, and persecuting
their surviving kinsfolk in a great variety of ways.
In the case of such incorrigible spirits nothing
remains but to drive them away by sheer force, and
to force in such circumstances primitive man does
not hesitate to have recourse. This introduces us
to the foul treatment of the spirits of the dea.d to
which we must now turn our attention.
Thus, for example, at a burial in Melville Island,
North Australia, all the men present have been seen
to charge at the invisible spirit of the dead man,
throwing sticks and spears at it in order to drive it
into the grave.1 The Arunta of Central Australia
believe that after his death a man’s ghost is free to
walk the earth for a period of twelve or eighteen
months, but that after that time it is necessary to
confine his restless spirit within narrower bounds.
1 Baldwin Spencer, Native Tribes of the Northern Territory of Australia
^London, 1914), p. 233.
LECTURE I 7
The favourite haunt of the ghost is believed to be
the burnt and deserted camp where he died. Here
accordingly, on a certain day, a band of men and
women, the men armed with shields and spear-
throwers, assemble and begin dancing round the
charred and blackened remains of the camp, shout­
ing and beating the air with their weapons and hands
in order to drive away the lingering spirit from the
spot he loves too well. When the dance is over the
whole party proceeds at a run to the grave, chasing
the ghost before them. In vain the poor ghost
makes a last bid for freedom and doubles back
towards the camp ; the leader of the, party, making
a long circuit, cuts off the retreat of the fugitive.
Finally, having run the ghost to earth they trample
him down into the grave, dancing and stamping on
the heaped-up soil, while with downward thrusts
through the air they beat and force him under­
ground.1 After a series of deaths a band of the
Kamilaroi tribe in New South Wales used to scour
the country, dancing and beating the air with
branches to drive away the dangerous spirits of the
dead, while a chorus of women and girls helped them
by their songs.2 The natives of the Banks’ Islands
believe that after a death the spirit of the deceased
does not at once depart, but continues to haunt the
neighbourhood for five or ten days; but as they
1 Baldwin Spencer and F. J. and other Australian Languages
Gillen, The Native Tribes of Central (Sydney, 1875), p. 149 ; id. “ Report
Australia(London} 1899), pp. 498- on the Australian Language and
508. Traditions ” ,Journal of the Anthro-
2 Rev. Wm. Ridley, Kamilaroi, pological Institute, ii. (1873) p. 269.
V O L . II B
8 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
think it undesirable that the ghost should linger for
more than five days they drive it away with shouts
and blowing of conches, and sometimes with the
booming sound of bull-roarers.1 A t Ureparapara
in these islands, the ceremony of ghost-driving is
peculiar and remarkable. “ Bags of small stones
and short pieces of bamboo are provided for the
people of the village, and are charmed by those who
have the knowledge of the magic chaunt appropriate
for the purpose. Two men, each with two white
stones in his hands, sit in the dead man’s house, one
on either side. These men begin to clink the stones
one against the other, the women begin to wail, the
neighbours— who have all assembled at one end of
the village— begin to march through it in a body to
the other end, throwing the stones into the houses
and all about, and beating the bamboos together.
So they pass through till they come to the bush
beyond, when they throw down the bamboos and
bags. They have now driven out the ghost, who
up to this time has been about the house, in which
the widow has for these five days never left the dead
man’s bed except upon necessity; and even then
she leaves a coconut to represent her till she returns.
A t Motlav the ghost is not driven away unless the
man who has died was badly afflicted with ulcers
and sores, either a gov covered with sores, or a
mamnagita with a single large ulcer or more. When
such a one is dying the people of his village send
word in time to the next village westwards, as the
1 R. H. Codrington, The Melanesians (Oxford, 1891), p. 267.
LECTURE I 9
ghost will go out following the sun, to warn them to
be prepared. When the gov is dead they bury him,
and then, with shell-trumpets blowing and the stalks
of coconut fronds stripped of some of the leaflets
beating the ground, they chase the ghost to the next
village. The people of that village take up the
chase, and hunt the ghost further westward ; and so
on till the sea is reached. Then the frond stalks are
thrown away and the people return, sure that the
ghost has left the island, and will not strike another
man with the disease.” 1
In San Cristoval, one of the Solomon Islands,
when a burial is taking place, a man goes to the hut
of the deceased, and, standing at the door, fishes for
the soul of the dead man with a fishing-rod baited
with betel n u t; and when he has caught it, puts the
ghost with the bait into a little bag. Later on the
bag will be put with the skull of the dead man
wherever it is kept. After the soul of the deceased
has thus been caught and deposited in the bag, other
men come to the door of the hut and fish for the
ghosts who may have come to the hut to prey on
the flesh of the corpse. The bait in this case is a
dracaena leaf. The other men come, some with
torches, some with sticks, and entering the hut dash
their torches and sticks against the walls to drive
out the lingering and dangerous ghosts.4 In this
custom it will be observed that though the ghost of
the dead man is carefully removed from the hut
1 R. H. Codrington, The Mela- 2 C. E. Rox, The Threshold of the
nesians, pp. 270-271. Pacific (London, 1924), p. 212.
10 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
which he inhabited, it is not driven away to a dis­
tance, but is deposited with the skull wherever that
may be kept, obviously in order that the spirit of
the deceased may abide with his mortal remains.
So far, therefore, the custom does not conform to the
general type of driving away ghosts to the bourne
from which no traveller returns.
Among the Sulka of New Britain, after a death
has taken place, a deep hole is dug in the hut of the
deceased and the corpse is placed over it, and kept
there for some time. Then follows the ceremony of
driving out the ghost from the hut. The time for
performing the ceremony is communicated secretly
to the men who are appointed to carry it out, lest the
ghost should overhear and prepare to resist. The
time is always in the early morning when the first
cry of a certain bird is heard. A t that moment the
natives raise a great shout, and the ghost-drivers,
entering the hut, beat and shake the walls, and set
fire to coconut leaves with which they dance wildly
about, thus expelling the ghost of the deceased.
When they have done their work, they throw away
the burning leaves on the path. Thereby the ghost
is believed to be frightened and to be driven finally
away.1
In Fiji the old custom of driving away the spirit
of the dead has been described as follows by Captain
Erskine, who witnessed it about the middle of the
nineteenth century. " As soon as this feast was
1 M. S. C. Rascher, “ Die Sulka, logie, xxxiv. (1904) p. 214; R.
ein Beitrag zur Ethnographic Neu- Parkinson, Dreissig Jahre in der
Pommern ” , Archiv fu r Anthropo- Siidsee (Stuttgart, 1907), p. 185.
LECTURE I
over (it was then dark) began the dance and uproar**’-
which are always carried on either at natural or
violent deaths. All classes then give themselves up
to excess, especially at unnatural deaths of this sort,
and create all manner of uproar by means of large
bamboos, trumpet-shells, etc., which will contribute
to the general noise which is considered requisite to
drive away the spirit and to deter him from desiring
to dwell or even to hover about his late residence.
The uproar is always held in the late habitation of
the deceased, the reason being that as no one knows
for a certainty what reception he will receive in the
invisible world, if it is not according to his expecta­
tions, he will most likely repent of his bargain and
wish to come back. For that reason they make a
great noise to frighten him away, and dismantle his
former habitation of everything that is attractive,
and clothe it with everything that to their ideas
seems repulsive.” 1
In the Marquesas Islands of the Pacific, after a
death, the ghost was believed not to abandon the
corpse definitely for the first two nights. On the
third night, a priest, stepping out on the terrace in
front of the house, implored the wandering soul of
the deceased to depart; and by way of enforcing
the request, a band of men, armed with spears and
other lethal weapons, went about in the outer dark­
ness, beating the bushes and stabbing the thatched
roofs of the houses in order to drive the lingering
1 JYE. Erskine, Journal of a Cruise among the Islands of the Western
Pacific (London, 1853), pp. 475’477-
12 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
ghost away. If, roused by the clamour, the dogs
began to bark, the priest would say, “ The soul is
departing ” .1
In the Gilbert Islands of the Pacific “ on the
three nights following a death the ceremony of
bo-maki was performed. All the people irrespective
of their kinship to the deceased, gathered together
in the darkness, with sticks of pandanus wood and
the butt ends of coconut leaves in their hands, at
the southern extremity of the village, and forming a
line abreast from east to west, slowly advanced north­
wards, beating the ground and trees before them
with their staves. Not a word was uttered. When
the line had swept through the settlement from south
to north it stopped, and the participants disbanded
in silence. All pedestrians who happened upon the
party while it was at work would seize a staff without
a word, join in and when it was finished pass on
their way. The object of the ceremony was to
encourage the soul to leave the neighbourhood of
the body and also to drive away any evil spirits
that might wish to possess it. Immediately life was
extinct the family began a great wailing and yelling
which was kept up by relays for three days without
intermission, except when the ceremony of bo-maki
was being performed ; to have sustained it during
that rite would have been to encourage the soul of
the dead to linger about the body and haunt the
living.” 2 In these same islands it was customary at
1 M. Radiguet, Les Berniers to Death in the Gilbert Islands ” ,
Sauvages (Paris, 1882), pp. 284 sqq. Journal of the Royal Anthropo-
2 Arthur Grimble, “ From Birth logical Institute>ii. (1921) p. 44.
LECTURE I 13
a burial to place two coconuts in the hands of the
corpse, as an additional precaution to prevent the
ghost from returning to haunt his kinsfolk. “ The
body was kept for three or nine days, being buried
on the fourth or tenth, as the case might be. Those
who kept it for the shorter period were of the opinion
that, as the soul had finally been driven away from
its neighbourhood on the third repetition of the
bo-maki ceremony, it might safely be laid to rest on
the fourth day. But many families, and particularly
those of Tarawa and Butaritari, believed that the
soul might reinhabit the body at any time during
the nine days after death, and so, though they took
the greatest pains to prevent it, still kept its fleshly
tenement available until the last moment.” 1
The Kiwai of British New Guinea believe that
the spirits of the dead normally depart to Adiri, the
far-off spirit-land, in the west; but some of them
are thought to linger behind, and to haunt the
villages intent on mischief. So it becomes necessary
to drive away these malignant spirits with blasts of
the conch shell.2
The Kiwai are also accustomed to burn the
platform on which a corpse has been exposed and
gifts which have been deposited on the grave.
Moreover, they chew ginger in order to drive away
the lingering spirit of the dead.3
In the Purari delta of British New Guinea, at a
death some of the natives wave branches of the
1 A. Grimble, op. cit. p. 45. 8 G. Landtman, The Kiwai
2 W. N. Beaver, Unexplored New Papuans of British New Guinea
Guinea (London, 1920), p. 177. (London, 1927), p. 259.
14 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
coconut palm over the corpse in the house to waft
the spirit of the deceased to spirit-land, before they
carry out the corpse to burial.1
The natives about Hood Bay and Port Moresby
in British New Guinea “ believe, too, in the death­
lessness of the soul, but their ideas as to its abode
or condition are very vague and indefinite. A death
in the village is the occasion of bringing plenty of
ghosts to escort their new companion and perhaps
fetch some one else. All night the friends of the
deceased sit up and keep the drums going to drive
away the spirits. When I was sleeping one night at
Hood Bay a party of young men and boys came
round with sticks, striking the fences and posts of
houses all through the village. This I found was
always done when any one died, to drive back the
spirits to their own quarters on the adjacent moun­
tain tops.” 2
Among the Roro-speaking peoples of British
New Guinea when a corpse has been laid in the grave
a near relative takes a branch of a tree and strokes
the body from foot to head, in order to drive away
the spirit. In Yule Island similarly two men stroke
the corpse from head to foot with a certain herb to
drive away the spirit. After the spirit has been thus
swept from the corpse the same two men, shouting
and brandishing sticks and torches, chase the spirit
beyond the bounds of the village into the bush,
1 J. H. Holmes, In Primitive on New Guinea and its Inhabitants ” ,
New Guinea (London, 1924), pp. Proceedings of the Royal Geo-
218,219. graphical Society, ii. (1880) p.
2 The Rev. W. G. Lawes, “ Notes 615.
LECTURE I IS
where, with a last curse, they hurl at it the sticks or
torches they have in their hands.1
After a death or a series of deaths, the Orokaiva
of British New Guinea celebrate a drama, a dance
and a feast in honour of the recently deceased. A t
the conclusion of the ceremonies, the paraphernalia
of the dancers are placed on a raft, and the spirit or
the spirits of the dead are supposed to embark along
with them and to float down the river to its mouth :
meanwhile, the chief man of the village calls out the
names of all the deceased and bids them go right
down to the sea and there to turn into crocodiles,
sharks and snakes.2
Among the Papuans of Geelvink Bay in Dutch
New Guinea after the burial, you may hear about
sunset a great uproar in all the houses of the village :
the people are yelling and throwing sticks about
with the object of driving away the dreaded ghost.
They have given him all that he can expect to g e t :
to wit, a grave, a banquet and funeral ornaments ;
and now they beseech him not to intrude upon the
survivors, and not to kill them or fetch them away,
as the Papuans put it.3
In some of the Turki tribes of Siberia it is
believed that after a death the soul of the deceased
is free to roam about for forty days, after which, if
1 C. G. Seligman, The Mela­
nesians of British New Guinea
(Cambridge, 1910), p. 275.
2 F. E. Williams, Orokaiva So­
ciety (Oxford, 1930), pp. 253 sfff.,
pp. 279 sq.
3 J. L. van Hasselt, “ Die Papua-
stamme an der Geelvinkbai (Neu-
Guinea) ” , Mitteilungen der Geo-
graphische Gesellschaft zu Jena, ix,
(1891) p. 101 ; cf. J. B. van Hasselt,
‘f‘ Die Noeforezen ” , Zeitschrift fu r
Ethnologie, viii. (1876) p. 196.
i6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
it is still hanging about, the shaman drives it out and
drums it down to hell. To secure a favourable
reception for the dead man in his new abode, the
shaman is said, after conducting the soul personally
thither, to serve out brandy to the devils all
round.1
Among the Western Bhotias of Thibet there is
performed on the last day of the obsequies a final
ceremony for getting rid of the soul of the deceased.
A venerable sage gives his last instructions to the
departing spirit. The clothes of the deceased are
taken and placed upon an animal which represents
the dead man. A man then leads forth the animal
to a spot far from the village, while all the villagers
beat the poor creature to drive it away and prevent
its return. In Chaudans the animal is allowed to go
free, but elsewhere low-caste Bhotias, or Thibetans,
speedily dispatch it and eat its flesh. So glad are
the villagers that the spirit has departed, that they
return singing and dancing, and after this, the men
and women shave, cut their hair, wash their heads
and wear rings on their ears and hands.2
Among the Kunbis, a great agricultural caste of
the Central Provinces of India, after all the other
funeral rites have been performed, the chief mourner
goes to the door of the house and, breaking an
areca-nut on the threshold and placing it in his
mouth, spits it out of the door, signifying the final
ejectment of the spirit of the deceased from the
1 W. Radloff, Aus Siberien (Leip- Tibet and the British Borderland
sig, 1884), ii. p. 52. (London, 1906), pp. 129, 130.
2 Charles A. Sherring, Western
LECTURE I 17
dwelling.1 Among the Savara, a hill tribe of
Southern India, as soon as a death has taken place
in a house, a gun is fired at the door in order to drive
away the spirit of the deceased.2
Among the Kachins of Burma, after a death in
a house a priest attempts to lure the soul of the
deceased out of the dwelling by means of a bait
attached to the end of a string, of which he, sitting
in the house, holds one end, while a man seated at
the door holds the other and baited end of the
string. If the soul is judged not to take the bait, as
a further inducement to the soul to depart, the priest
throws a spear at it, and tells it that the house is full
of caterpillars, serpents and wild boars, which will bite
the poor soul if it does not at once make off. When
the priest feels sure that the ghost has really departed
from the house, he takes his spear in his hand, and
harangues the spirit as follows : “ We have made
solemn funeral rites for you ; we have offered you
fowls and pigs and buffaloes, and we give you now
these two images of birds to sell on the road ; take
all these objects, these provisions for the journey and
especially all evil omens, and go to your great-
grandfather, by way of your tomb and those of your
father and grandfather 3
It is believed by the Malagasy that the spirits of
1 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and
Castes of the Central Provinces of
India (London, 1916), iv.'p. 36.
2 E. Thurston, Castes and Tribes
of Southern India (Madras, 1909),
vi. p. 324; Fred. Fawcett, “ On the
Soaras (or Savaras), an aboriginal
Hill People of the Eastern Ghats
of the Madras Presidency Journal
of the Anthropological Society of
Bombay, i. (1886) p. 248.
3 P. Ch. Gilhodes, “ Mort et
funerailles chez les Katchins (Bir-
manie) ” , Anthropos, xiii. (1917-
1918) pp. 264, 265
i8 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
the dead hover about the towns and even revisit
their former homes, “ and it is customary in great
floods or downpours of rain for the people to beat
the sides of their houses with great violence to drive
away, as they say, the angatra or spirits who may
be seeking to re-enter and shelter themselves beneath
the ancestral roof” .1
After a death the Bari of the Nilotic Sudan carry
burning grass round the house to drive away the
soul of the deceased, which otherwise would worry
the survivors.2 Among the Bakarewe, who inhabit
an island of the Victoria Nyanza, on the fifth day
after a burial, a relative of the deceased enters the
house and turns everything upside down in the
chamber where the dead man breathed his last.
This he does in order to expel the ghost lest he
should return to haunt and molest the survivors.
The service which the kinsman thus renders to the
family is a dangerous one, and no sooner has he
performed it than he demands his reward, which is
at once given him in the shape of a hoe, or a goat.
Having got it, the ghost-driver departs quickly to his
own house.3
Speaking of the natives of the Gabun district of
West Africa, a very experienced American mission­
ary tells us that “ the feelings in the hearts of the
mourners are very mixed. The outcry of affection,
pleading with the dead to return to life, is sincere, the
1 Henry W. Little, Madagascar Nilotic Sudan (London, 1932), p. 291.
(Edinburgh and London, 1854), p. 84. 3 P. Eugene Hurel, “ Religion et
2 C. G. Seligman and Brenda Z. vie domestique des Bakarewe ” ,
Seligman, Pagan Tribes of the Anthropos, vi. (1911) p. 299.
LECTURE I 19
survivor desiring the return to life to be complete;
but almost simultaneously with that cry comes a fear
that the dead may indeed return, not as the accus­
tomed embodied spirit, helpful and companionable,
but as a disembodied spirit, invisible, estranged,
perhaps inimical, and surrounded by an atmosphere
of dread imparted by the unknown and unseen.
The many then ask, not that the departed may
return, but that, if it be hovering near, it will go
away entirely. Few were those who during the life
of the departed had not on occasion had some quarrel
with him, or had done him some injustice or other
wrong, and their thought is, ‘ His spirit will come
back to avenge itself! ’ So guns are fired to frighten
away the spirit and to cause it to go far off to the far
world of spirits, and not take up residence in or near
the town to haunt and injure the living.” 1
Among the Ewe-speaking people of Togoland in
West.Africa, when the relatives of a dead man visit his
fields for the first time after his death, they are careful
to drive away his spirit by shouts and, gun shots.2
In Loango, when many spirits of the dead are
believed to be haunting and troubling a village, the
inhabitants resort to strong measures for expelling
them. Fires are kindled everywhere; houses are
swept and cleaned out; the people rush about shout­
ing and screaming, and men fire guns and brandish
chopping knives to drive away the spirits.3
1 R. H. Nassau, Fetichism in (Berlin, 1906), p. 121.
West Africa (London, 1904), pp. 3 E. Pechuel Loesche, Die Loango-
223-224. Expedition, iii. 2 (Stuttgart, 1907),
2 J. Spieth, Die Ewe-Stamme p. 309.
20 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
In aboriginal America, also, the custom of ex­
pelling the spirit of the deceased has often been
observed and recorded. Thus, for example, among
the Eskimo of Bering Strait, the ceremony has been
described by an eye-witness as follows. On the
evening of the second day after the death, the men
in every house in the village took their domestic
buckets and, turning them bottom upwards, went
about thrusting the bottom of the vessel into every
corner and into the smoke-hole and the doorway.
This, it was said, was done to drive out the shade or
ghost if it should be in the house, and from this
custom the second day is called a-hun-ig-ut, or “ the
bottom day ” . After this was done, and the people
were ready to retire for the night, every man took a
long grass stem and, bending it, stuck both ends
into the ground in a conspicuous place in the middle
of the doorway. They said that this would frighten
the spirit off, for should it come about and try to
enter the house, it would see this bent grass, and be­
lieving it to be a snare, would go away, fearing to be
caught. On the lower Yukon, below Ikogmut, “ the
housemates of the deceased must remain in their
accustomed places in the house during the four days .
following the death, while the shade is believed to
be still about. During this time all of them must
keep fur hoods drawn over their heads to prevent
the influence of the shade from entering their heads
and killing them. A t once, after the body is taken
from the house, his sleeping-place must be swept
clean and piled full of bags and other things, so as
LECTURE I 21
not to leave any room for the shade to return and
reoccupy it. A t the same time, the two persons
who slept with him upon each side must not, upon
any account, leave their places. If they were to do
so the shade might return and, by occupying the
vacant place, bring sickness or death to its original
owner, or to the inmates of the house. For this
reason none of the dead person’s housemates are
permitted to go outside during the four days follow­
ing the death. The deceased person’s nearest
relatives cut their hair short along the forehead in
sign of mourning. During the four days that the
shade is thought to remain with the body, none of
the relatives are permitted to use any sharp-edged or
pointed instrument for fear of injuring the shade and
causing it to be angry and to bring misfortune upon
them. One old man said that should the relatives
cut anything with a sharp instrument during this
time, it would be as though he cut his own shade and
would die.” 1
Among the Shuswap of British Columbia, often
after a death the shaman is called in by the relatives
of the deceased. It is believed that the ghost of the
dead person is eager to take one of his nearest rela­
tives with him to the spirit-land. The shaman is
called in to drive away the ghost. He sees the ghost
and orders all the members of the mourning family
to stay in the house, which the ghost cannot enter.
Then he addresses the ghost, telling him that he
1 E. W. Nelson, u The Eskimo of of the Bureau of American Ethno-
Bering Strait ” , iSth Annual Report logy (1899), pp. 314, 315.
22 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
cannot have the person he wants. Thus he induces
the ghost to go away and not to trouble the family
any more.1 Some of the Canadian Indians, whom
the Jesuits called the Mountaineers, believed that
when a man died in a hut his soul passed out of it
by the smoke-hole in the roof, and they beat the walls
of the hut with sticks to hasten its departure.2 Among
the Ojebway Indians, on the evening after a burial
when it began to grow dark, the men used to fire
their guns through the smoke-hole in the roof, while
the women beat the walls of the hut with sticks in
order to drive away the lingering ghost. As a
further precaution against the return of the ghost,
they cut thin strips of birch bark and hung them
inside the walls of the hut, as scarecrows to frighten
away the poor soul if nevertheless it should come
back to disturb their slumbers.3
Among the Cora Indians of Mexico after a death
wizards were engaged to hunt out and drive away
the soul of the deceased. This they did by smoking
their pipes and poking branches into all the corners
of the house, until they pretended to find the lurking
ghost, whom thereupon they summarily ejected.4
Thus we have seen that, in many parts of the
world, primitive man has been in the habit of driving
id., 1639, p. 44.
3 Peter Jones, History of the Ojeb­
way Indians (London, 1861), pp.
99*100.
4 H. H. Bancroft, The Native
Races of the Pacific States of North
America (London, if p.
744* '
■
1 Sixth Report on the North-
Western Tribes of Canada {Report
of the British Association for 18go,
separate reprint); Second General
Report on the Indians of British
Columbia, by Dr. Pr. Boas, p. 85.
2Relations desJesuites (Canadian
reprint) (Quebec, 1858), i. Annee
1634, p. 23; cf. id., 1633, p. n ;
LECTURE I 23
forcibly away the dangerous ghosts of the dead. In
civilized Europe similar usages have not been un­
known. Thus, the Germans sometimes wave towels
about or sweep the ghost out with a besom,1 just as
in old Rome the heir solemnly swept out the ghost
of his predecessor with a broom specially made for
the purpose.2 So like is human nature in all lati­
tudes and under all varieties of culture.
1 A. Wuttke, Der deutsche Volks- iusta facere defuncto debet; qui si
dberglatibe, Second Edition (Berlin, non fecerit, seu quid in ea re tur-
1869), §§ 725, 737 ; F. Schmidt, baverit, suo capite luat. Id nomen
Sitten und Gebrduche bet Hock- ductum a verrendo. Nam exverriae
zeit, Taufen und Begrdbnissen in purgatio quaedam domus, ex qua
Thiiringen, p. 85 ; J. A . E. Kohler, mortuus ad sepulturam ferendus est,
Volksbrauch, Aberglauben, Sagen quae fit per everriatorem certo
und andre alte Oberlieferungen im genere scoparum adhibito, ab extra
Voigtlande (Leipsic, 1867), p. 254. verrendo dictarum.” In this passage
the ghost is not expressly mentioned,
2 Festus, s.v. everriator, p. 68, but on the analogy of the customs
ed. W. M. Lindsay: “ Everriator described above he may be inferred
vocatur, qui iure accepta hereditate with a high degree of probability.
C
V O L . II
L E C T U R E II
In the last lecture we saw that in many parts of the
world, after deaths have taken place, primitive man
has been in the habit of driving away the spirits of
the departed because he believes that the continued
presence of these spirits in their old haunts might
bring many calamities on the living. But once he
succeeded to his satisfaction in banishing these
dangerous spirits to a distance, his anxiety is by no
means over ; for he thinks that the spirits can return
and persecute the survivors ; especially by carrying
off their souls with them to dead land. Hence,
having banished the spirits of the dead to what he
conceives to be a safe distance, he nevertheless
adopts a great many precautions to prevent their
return. To these precautions, which are very varied
and often very curious, we must now direct our
attention.
Thus, to begin with, failing to distinguish the
immaterial and spiritual from the material and
corporeal, he imagines that the spirits of the dead
can be arrested by physical obstacles, and accord­
ingly he proceeds to erect such obstacles in the way
of the returning spirits, in the hope that the spirits
27
LECTURE II
28 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
will be unable to surmount them and to reach him
and his fellows ; in short, he attempts to barricade
the road against them.
Thus, for example, some of the Tungus are said
to make a barrier of snow and trees.1
Amongst the Mangars, one of the fighting tribes
of Nepal, when the mourners are returning from the
grave, “ one of their party goes ahead and makes a
barricade of thorn bushes across the road, midway
between the grave and the house of the deceased.
On the top of the thorns he puts a big stone on which
he takes his stand, holding a pot of burning incense
in his left hand and some woollen thread in his right.
One by one the mourners step on the stone and pass
through the smoke of the incense to the other side
of the barrier. As they pass, each takes a piece of
thread from the man who holds the incense, and ties
it round his neck. The object of this curious cere­
mony is to prevent the spirit of the dead.from
coming home with the mourners and establishing
itself in its old haunts. Conceived of as a miniature
man, it is believed to be unable to make its way on
foot through the thorns, while the smell of the
incense, to which all spirits are highly sensitive,
prevents it from surmounting this obstacle on the
shoulders of one of the mourners.” 2 The Chins of
Burma burn their dead and collect their bones
in. an earthen pot. Afterwards, at a convenient
1 T. de Pauly, Description ethno- 2 H. H. Risley, Tribes and Castes
graphique des peuples de la Russie of Bengali Ethnographic Glossary,
(St. Petersburg, 1862), Peuples ii. (Calcutta, 1891) pp. 95-96.
ouralo-altaiques, p. 71.
LECTURE II 29
season, they carry away the pot containing the bones
to the ancestral burial place. “ When the people
convey the pot of bones to the cemetery, they take
with them some cotton-yarn, and whenever they
*come to any stream or other water, they stretch a
thread across, whereby the spirit of the deceased,
who accompanies them, may get across it too. When
they have duly deposited the bones and food for
the spirit in the cemetery they return home, after
bidding the spirit to remain there and not to follow
them back to the village. A t the same time they
block the way by which they return by putting a
bamboo across the path.” 1 Thus the mourners
make the way to the grave as easy as possible for
the ghost, but obstruct the way by which he might
return from it.
Among the Kachins, another tribe of Burma,
when the mourners are returning from the grave
precautions have to be taken against any onslaughts
by the spirit of the dead. A long bamboo is pro­
cured and split in half for about half-way or more
up its length. One half is fixed in the ground, the
other lying loose. Between the two halves a wedge
is inserted about three or four inches off the ground,
thus forming a triangle with the wedge as base.
All those who have attended the funeral pass through
the triangle, the priest and the butcher bringing up
the rear. Either of these two knocks away the
wedge after having passed over it and the two halves
1 Rev. G. Whitehead, “ Notes on the Chins of Burma ” , Indian A nti-
qnary^ xxxvi. (1907) pp. 214 sqq.
3° THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
of the bamboo close with a snap. Those who have
guns fire as many shots as they can into the bamboo
to frighten away the dangerous spirit of the deceased.
In this custom the split bamboo is the obstacle
interposed between the mourners and the pursuing
ghost; while the two pieces of the bamboo are held
apart the gateway is open to let the mourners pass
through ; but when the two pieces are allowed to
come together with a snap the gate is closed in the
face of the baffled ghost and the mourners feel them­
selves to be safe from his pursuit.1
Among the Mois, a primitive tribe of Tonkin,
when the mourners are returning from a burial,
they make their way through a narrow passage con­
structed of reeds on trees, hoping thus to rid them­
selves of the ghost who will be brushed off by con­
tact with the reeds or trees.2
Among the Lakhers, a tribe of Assam, when a
death has taken place in a village all the people are
very much afraid lest the spirit of the dead should
enter their houses during the night and do them
harm. To prevent this each householder places his
paddy pestle across the doorway. When the dead
person’s spirit arrives at the door it sees the pestle,
and, mistaking it for a huge serpent, retreats in
terror. More intelligent spirits are said to recognize
the pestle, but, fearing that it might fall and crush
them if they attempt to enter, return whence they
came. In Tisi, a village of the Lakhers, to prevent
1 W . J. S. Carrapiett, The Ka- 3 H. Baudesson, Au pays des
chin Tribes of Burma (Rangoon, superstitions et des rites (Paris,
I929), P* 47- 1932), p. 130.
LECTURE II 3 i
the ghost of the deceased from re-entering his house
on the night of the funeral, they take a hen, and
standing on the ladder leading to the house, cut
off its feathers, allowing them to fall on each side
of the ladder. These feathers are supposed to form
a barrier which the ghost cannot cross. The cutting
of the feathers is meant to intimate to the ghost that
if he ventures to return to the house they will cut
him up just as they cut off the feathers.1
Among the Dhobas, a primitive tribe of the
Central Province of India, on the ninth, eleventh or
thirteenth day after a death, when the ceremonial
impurity ends, the male members of the sept are
shaved on the banks of a river and their hair is left
lying there. When they start home they spread
some thorns and two stones across the path. Then,
as the first man steps over the thorns, he takes up
one of the stones in his hand and passes it behind
him £0 the second, and each man successively passes
it back as he steps over the thorns, the last man
throwing the stone behind the thorns. Thus the dead
man’s spirit in the shape of the stone is separated
from the living and prevented from accompanying
them home.2 In this custom the ghost is apparently
supposed to adhere to the hair of the mourners, till
the hair has been shorn off and left on the bank of
the river ; and though the ghost attempts to pursue
the mourners home, he is stopped on his way by the
barrier of thorns.
1 N. E. Parry, The Lakhers Castes of the Central Provinces of
(London, 1932), p. 403. India, ii. (London, 1916) pp. 516,
2 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and 517.
32 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Again, when the Aheriyas of the North-Western
Provinces of India burn the corpse they fling pebbles
in the direction of ,the pyre to prevent the spirit
accompanying them. In the Himalayas when a
man is returning from the cremation ground, after
the burning of a corpse, he places a thorny bush on
the road wherever it is crossed by another path, and
the nearest male relative of the deceased on seeing
this, puts a stone on it, and pressing it down with his
feet, prays the spirit of the dead man not to trouble
him.1 Here again the thorns serve as a barrier
against the pursuing spirit. In India the custom of
erecting barriers against the return of the ghost
appears to be by no means confined to the wild
tribes of the present day, but to go back to a remote
antiquity. It was the ancient rule that when the
mourners left the cremation ground the officiating
priest raised a barrier of stones between the dead and
the living.2 In the Satapatha-Brahmana, an ancient
Indian book of religious ritual, it is said that the
officiating priest, having fetched a clod from the
boundary, deposits it midway between the grave and
the village, saying: “ This I put up as a bulwark
for the living, lest another of them should go unto
that thing; may they live for a hundred plentiful
harvests, and shut out death from themselves by a
mountain” . The priest is said thus to make a
1 W. Crooke, The Popular Pelt- R. E. Enthoven) (London, 1926),
gionand Folklore of Northern India, p. 237, referring to Rajendralala
ii. (London, 1896) p. 57. Mitra, ii. 123, 136 ; E. J. Atkinson,
The Himalayan Districts of the
2 W. Crooke, Religion and Folk- North-Western Provinces of India}
lore of Northern India (edited by ii. (Allahabad, 1884) p. 832.
LECTURE II 33
boundary between the dead forefathers and their
living descendants.1 The great Maratha leader
f^ivaji is said to have crawled through a perforated
stone, to escape from the ghost of the Mogul General
he had killed.2
3
Among the Sea Dyaks of Borneo the mourners
who are the last to leave the grave plant sharpened
stakes in the ground, so that the spirit of the dead
may not follow them to the house, the stakes planted
in the ground being supposed to prevent its return.2
Similarly the Kiwai of British New Guinea put up
sticks on the path which the ghost is supposed to
have taken, in order to block the road against its
return.4
*
Among the Kpelle, a negro tribe of Liberia,
ropes are stretched round the base of a house or the
walls of a town to ward off evil spirits, among whom
mischievous ghosts are no doubt included. Between
one of the villages and a graveyard two posts used
to be planted in the ground with wattle - work
stretched between them, in order to prevent the
ghosts from coming from the graveyard to molest
the villagers.8
In Loango, similarly, a cord protected by an
1 Satapatha - Br&hmana, trans­
lated by J. E. Egeling (Oxford, 1900),
Part V. p. 440 ; Sacred Books o f the
East, vol. xliv.
2 J. Abbott, The Keys of Power
(London, 1932), p. 504.
3 E. H. Gomes, Seventeen Years
among the Sea Dyaks of Borneo
(London, 1911), p. 138 ; cf. J. Per-
ham, “ Sea Dyak Religion ” ,Journal
of the Straits Branch of the Royal
Asiatic Society, No. 14 (1884), p.
291.
4 G. Landtman, The Kiwai
Papuans of British New Guinea
(London, 1927), p. 282.
8 D. Westermann, Die Kpelle;
ein Negerstamm in Liberia (Leipsic,
1921), pp. 203-204.
34 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
appropriate charm is stretched and a furrow is traced
all round a village. Further, a sacrificial victim,
generally a goat, is carried round the whole circum­
ference and is afterwards sacrificed. If these pre­
cautions fail to keep out the ghosts the inhabitants
are at their wits’ end, and think of abandoning the
site altogether.12
Like the inhabitants of the Old World, the ab­
origines of America have sometimes been wont to
erect barriers as a protection against the intrusion
of unwelcome ghosts. Thus among the Shuswap of
British Columbia mourners use thorn-bushes for
pillow and bed in order to keep away the ghost of
the deceased. They also lay thorn-bushes all round
their beds for the same purpose.8 So among
the Bella Coola Indians, another tribe of British
Columbia, the bed of a mourner must be protected
against the ghost of the deceased. The relatives of
the dead stick a thorn-bush at each comer of.their
bed. After four days these bushes are thrown into
the water. Mourners must rise early and go into the
woods, where they stick four thorn-bushes into the
ground,-at the corners of a square, in which they
must cleanse themselves by rubbing their bodies
with cedar branches. They also swim in ponds.
After swimming they cleave four small trees and
creep through the clefts, following the course of the
1 E. Pechuel-Loesche, Die Loango-
Expedition, iii. z. (Stuttgart, 1907)
P* 3IQ*
2 Fr. Boas, Second General Re­
port on the Indians of British Co­
lumbia, Sixth Report on the North-
Western Tribes of Canada (Report
of the British Association for iSgo),
separate reprint, p. 91.
LECTURE II 35
sun. This they do on four subsequent mornings,
cleaving new trees every day.1 In this latter custom
the passage of the mourner through cleft trees is
another mode of evading the pursuit of the ghost,
just as we have seen that Kachin mourners return­
ing from the grave creep through a split bamboo for
a similar purpose. Among the Thompson Indians,
another tribe of British Columbia, after a death, a
string of deer-hoofs with a short line attached was
hung across the inside of the winter house, to prevent
the ghost from entering. During four successive
nights an old woman pulled at the string frequently
to make the hoofs rattle. Branches of juniper were
also placed at the door of the house, or were burned
in the fire for the same purpose.2 Some of the
Algonkin Indians of Canada used to stretch nets
round their huts in the meshes of which they sought
to catch any spirits of the dead who might attempt
to eijter from the wigwams of their neighbours.3
Among the Huichol Indians of Mexico no strong
liquor is drunk at burial feasts. Instead, a cross,
made from a kind of salvia, is hung up in the house
to prevent the soul of the deceased from re-entering
the house and to keep him from getting into the
1 Seventh Report on the North-
Western Tribes of Canada (.Report
of the British Association for i8gx,
separately paged extract), Third
Report on the Indians of British
Columbia, by Dr. Fr. Boas, p. 13.
On the custom of creeping through
cleft trees or other narrow openings
to escape from a ghost, see The
Golden Bough, Part V II. Balder the
Beautiful^ ii. pp. 174 sqq. ,
a James Teit, “ The Thompson
Indians of British Columbia ” (Me­
moirs of the American Museum of
Natural History, ii. Anthropology
I . ; The Jessup North Pacific E x ­
pedition, iv. (April, 1900) p. 331.
8 Relations des Jesuites 1639, vol.
i. (Quebec, 1858) p. 44.
36 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
distillery and spoiling the wine. For the same
purpose branches are put upon the paths leading to
the distillery and the jars of liquor are covered.1
As usual, savage custom has its counterpart in
civilized Europe. In Savoy there is a curious belief
attached to the custom of closing all doors and
windows when a funeral is about to pass. The
peasants say that if this were not done the soul of
the dead might escape into a house through some
open door or window.2 This belief probably gives
the clue to the common European custom of lowering
the blinds of all windows in a house of mourning.
Among the barriers which primitive man attempts
to interpose between himself and the dreaded spirits
of the dead, a prominent place is taken by water
and fire. Thus, to begin with water, after burying
a body the Ngarigo of South-east Australia were
wont to cross a river in order to prevent the ghost
from pursuing them.8 Obyiously they shared the
common opinion that ghosts for some reason are
unable to cross water.
The natives of Nias, an island to the west of
Sumatra, attribute contagious diseases to the ill-
will of the spirits of the dead : hence, the bodies of
persons who die of such diseases do not receive
regular obsequies, but are either thrown away in the
forest or are buried in an island, to prevent the return
of their dangerous ghosts.4
1 C. Lumholz, Unknown Mexico, 3 A . W. Howitt, Native Tribes of
ii. (London, 1903) pp. 243-244. South-eastAustralia (London, 1904),
2 Estella Canziani, Costumes>Tra- p. 461.
ditions and Songs of Savoy (London, * Elio Modigliani, U 1sola delle
1911), p. 136. Donne (Milan, 1895), p. 198.
LECTURE II 37
The use of water as a barrier against a ghost
may be illustrated from a practice of the Ainu of
Japan, as it is described from personal experi­
ence by the Rev. John Batchelor, our principal
authority on these primitive people. He had visited
the grave of an old woman, in the company of the
woman’s son. The son would by no means approach
within fifty yards of the grave for fear of his
mother’s ghost. “ Upon returning to the hut, the
man, together with the women, brought a bowl of
water to the door, and requested me to wash my
face and hands. Whilst at my ablutions the women
commenced to beat me and brush me down with
inao (sacred whittled sticks). Upon inquiring into
the ideas which moved the people to act in this
manner, I discovered that the washing was to purify
me from all uncleanness contracted at the grave
through contact with the ghost of the deceased, and
that the beating and brushing with inao was to
drive away all evil influences and diseases she may
have aimed at me. The water and inao were the
antidote against, and the corrective for, the evil
intentions the spirit is supposed to have directed
towards me out of her wicked spite for trespassing
on her domain.” 1
Among the Taungthu of Upper Burma, when
the corpse is carried outside the house, the chief
mourner, widow or widower, son or daughter, pours
water over the body and says : "A s a stream divides
1 Rev. John Batchelor, The Ainu and their Folk-lore (London, 1901),
PP- 549, 550.
38 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
countries so may the water poured now divide
us
In the Satapatha-Brahmana it is prescribed that
seven furrows should be dug on the north side of
the grave and filled with water, for sin not to pass
beyond, for indeed sin cannot pass beyond seven
rivers. The mourners returning from the grave
throw three stones each into these northern furrows
and pass over them, saying : “ Here floweth the
stony one; hold on to each other, rise and cross
over, ye friends: here will we leave behind what
unkind spirits there be, and will cross over to
auspicious nourishments ” . On this custom a com­
mentator observes : “ These seven furrows are
straight, running from west to east; thus separating
the grave from the north, the world of men In
the text just quoted the seven furrows are repre­
sented as a barrier which sin cannot cross, but this
moral explanation of the custom is probably a
priestly interpretation. We may suspect that the
water of the seven furrows was originally intended
to prevent the ghost from following the mourners
on their return from the grave.2
In Africa, among the Bangala of the Upper
Congo, the Rev. John H. Weeks witnessed a good
example of the use of water as a barrier to divide
the dead from the living. He says: “ Walking
one day in Monsembe I saw an incident that re-
1 G. W. Scott and J. P. Hardi- * Satapatha-Brahmana, translated
man, Gazetteer of Upper Burma and by Julius Egeling, Part V. (Oxford,
the Shan States, Part I. vol. i. 1900) pp. 437 sqq.
(Rangoon, 1900) p. 554*
LECTURE II 39
called Burns’ ‘ Tam o’ Shanter ’ to my mind. There
had been a death in a family and the relatives
had just performed all the necessary rites and
ceremonies and were returning to their homes. A
small trench some twenty feet long was dug with a
hoe. The relatives took up their position on the
side of the trench nearest to the grave, the medicine­
man stood on the other side, and his assistant was
placed at the end of the trench with a large calabash
of water. A t a signal the water was poured into
the trench, and while it was running the medicine­
man took each person by the hand, and mumbling
an incantation pulled him or her over the running
water. When all had been pulled over, one by one,
the water was allowed to run until the calabash was-
empty. I asked the reason of the ceremony, and
they told me that it was to keep the spirit of their
deceased, and buried, relative from following them.
It was very evident from the rites observed that
they thought the spirits could not cross running
water.” 1
With regard to the natives of the Gabun district
we are told by the Rev. Robert Nassau that “ when
they have finished the work of burial, they are in
great fear, and are to run rapidly to their village,
or to the nearest body of water, river or lake or sea.
If in their running one should trip and fall it is a
sign that he will soon die. They plunge into the
1 John H. Weeks, Among Congo Congo River ” ,Journal of the Royal
Cannibals (London, 1913), pp. 102- Anthropological Institute, xxxix.
103 ; cf. id., " Anthropological (1909) p. 454.
Notes on the Bangala of the Upper
V O L . II D
40 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
water, as a means of f purification' from possible
defilement. The object of this purification is not
simply to cleanse the body, but to remove the
presence or contact of the spirit of the dead man or
of any other spirit of possible evil influence, lest
they should have ill-luck in their fishing, hunting
and other work.” 1
A much attenuated form of the water barrier
against ghosts is observed amongst the Basutos ;
a man with holy water follows the funeral, sprinkling
with the holy water the footprints of the men who
carry the corpse.2
Widows and widowers are often supposed to be
peculiarly liable to be haunted by the ghosts of their
deceased spouses, and special precautions are accord­
ingly taken to protect them from these importunate
spirits. The Bakongo of the Lower Congo River
resort to the water barrier as the means of guarding
both widows and widowers in these melancholy cir­
cumstances. In the case of the widow, “ if it is'the
woman’s first husband who has died, she must take
his bed, and one or two articles he commonly used,
to a running stream. The bed is put in the middle
of the stream and the articles placed on it. The
woman washes herself well in the stream and after­
wards sits on the bed. The medicine-man goes to
her and dips her three times in the water and dresses
her. Then the bed and articles are broken and the
pieces thrown down-stream to float away. She is
1 Rev. Robert H. Nassau, Fetich- 2 Verhandlungen der Berliner
ism in West Africa (London, 1904), Gesellschaft fu r Anthropologic
pp- 218-219. (1877), p. 84.
LECTURE II
now led out of the stream, and a raw egg is broken
and given to her to swallow. A toad is killed and
some of its blood is rubbed on her lips, and a fowl is
killed and hung by the roadside. These sacrifices
having been made to the spirit of the departed one,
she is free to return to her town." 1 Clearly, the
Bakongo suppose that by placing the widow in her
bed in the middle of a river they oppose an insuper­
able obstacle to the attentions of her husband’s
ghost; but to make assurance doubly sure, they
afterwards seek to pacify the ghost by a sacrifice.
The treatment of a widower among the Bakongo is
somewhat similar, if the woman was his first wife.
He must stay in his house for six days, but on the
morning of the seventh day the male relatives of his
deceased wife come to escort him to a running
stream. On arrival at the stream one of the kinsmen
takes the bed and throws it into the water. Then
he scrapes the widower’s tongue, shaves him, pares
his nails, makes three cuts in his arm, and finally
immerses him three times in the river, to “ wash
away the death ” , or rather, as we may suppose,
his wife’s ghost.2
With this African application of the water barrier
to protect the widow we may compare a somewhat
similar custom observed by the Papuans of Geelvink
Bay in Dutch New Guinea. A widow must not
leave her dwelling for several months, for the spirit
of her dead husband is still associated with her, and
1 J. H. Weeks, Among the Primi- 172,173.
tive Bakongo (London, 1914), pp. 2 J. H. Weeks, op. cit. p.173.
41
42 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
if she went about the men who met her might be
taken ill or die. Her hair is shorn in sign of
mourning. After her hair is shorn, she is bathed,
and in order that she may not meet any one in taking
her bath, a canoe is brought under the house, a hole
is made in the floor and she descends into the boat.1
Thus these Papuan widows, like their African sisters,
are surrounded by water as a barrier against their
husbands’ ghosts.
Among peoples of the lower culture, it is a
common custom for mourners after a burial or a
funeral to plunge completely into water. The
custom is usually interpreted as a mode of cleansing
the mourner from the impurity which he has con­
tracted by contact with the dead. But in all such
cases it is safe to conjecture that the original motive
was fear of the ghost, and a wish to interpose a
barrier of water between the living and the dead.
And even when the custom has degenerated .into a
simple ablution of some part of the mourner’s
person, or into a still slighter contact with water, it
seems probable that the underlying motive has been
a desire to wash off the clinging ghost, or otherwise
to get rid of him by the interposition of water.
With regard to the Hindoos, we are told that they
regard themselves as defiled by simple presence at
a funeral, and immediately after contracting this
defilement they go and plunge into water, and no
1 J. L. van Hasselt, “ Eenig der Noefoorezen ”, Tijdsckrift voor
Aanteekeningen amgaande de be- Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde,
woners der Nord-Westkust van Nieu xxxii. (1889) p. 591
Guinea, meejr bepaaldeligk de Stam
r
LECTURE II 43
j
f
i
one dare enter his house before he has thus purified
himself.1
Among the people of Ambaca in Angola, the
surviving relative, whether husband or wife, is
carried from the grave on the back of a person of the
same sex and thrown into the river for ablution or
purification. On returning to his house, the person
so purified is secluded; he may not converse with
any person of the opposite sex, nor eat anything
that has been boiled, nor wash himself2 for eight
days.
In some parts of the Cameroons all present at a
burial throw handfuls of earth on the grave and then
run away lest they should die the same death as the
deceased. Those who live near the coast afterwards
throw themselves into the sea, but the inland people
in the like circumstances plunge into a river.3
A traveller in the Cameroons tells us how, after
witnessing the execution of a man accused of witch­
craft, the whole population of the village, men,
women and children, ran to the shore, and stripping
themselves of their clothes, bathed in the sea to wash
off, as he says, the witchcraft, but probably rather
the dangerous spirit of the sorcerer just set free from
its earthly tenement.4
Among the Kaffirs of South Africa all persons
who touched a corpse or any of the dead man's
1 J. A. Dubois, Mceurs, institu- 8 C. Cunym, “ De Libreville au
.turns et ceremonies des peuples de Cameroun ” , Bulletin de la SociltS
rinde (Paris, 1825), i. p. 244. de Geographic>xvii. (1896) pp. 340-
a F. T. Valdez, Six Years of a 341.
Traveller's Life in Western Africa 1 R. Buchholz, Reisen in West-
(London, 1861), p. 296 sq. Afrika (Leipsic, 1880), p. 143.
44 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
effects were obliged to go through certain ceremonies
and then to bathe in running water before they
might associate with their companions.1
Among the Ba-1la-speaking tribes of Northern
Rhodesia, when the grave has been filled up and
before the diggers have stepped off from it, water is
brought and all who have handled the corpse wash
their hands over the grave. This they do, it is said,
to cleanse them from the defilement they have
contracted.2
Among the Fangs of West Africa, after the death
of a chief, his wives are shut up in a hut, where they
have to stay five days mourning for him. On the
evening of the fifth day they lie down on the felled
trunks of banana trees laid side by side, and all the
people of the village, from the youngest to the
oldest, pour water over them. The women have to
lie there all night without stirring, and next morning
their heads are carefully shaved with bits of broken
glass. Afterwards the villagers forma double line,
men on one side, women on the other, armed with
swords and other weapons, and the women have to
run the gauntlet between these two rows, being
well belaboured in their passage.3 In this custom
the beating of the widows is doubtless a secondary
precaution to rid them of their husband's ghost, lest
1 G. McCall Theal, Ethnography The Ila-SpeakingPeoples ofNorthern
and Condition of South Africa Rhodesia, ii. (London, 1920) p. 106.
(London, 1919), p. 222; Dos
Santos, in Records of South-Eastern 3 P. Trilles, “ Chez les Fangs;
Africa, edited by G. McCall Theal, leurs moeurs, leur langue, leur re-
vii. (1901) p. 401. ligion ” , Missions Catholiques, xxx.
2 E. W. Smith and A. M. Dale, (1898) pp. 521, 522.
LECTURE II 45
he should be clinging to their persons, despite the
sousing of their bodies with water.
Among the Nyanja-speaking peoples of the
Nyasaland Protectorate, when a grave has been
filled in the mourners go to a river and bathe in it,
the men up-stream and the women down-stream.1
When the Damara or Herero of South-West
Africa have buried a body they pour bowls of water
on the grave before retiring from it.2
3
In North Guinea, after a corpse has been buried,
the bearers rush to the water and wash themselves
thoroughly before they return to the town.8
Among the Bare-speaking Toradjas of Central
Celebes the mourners in returning from a burial
step in vessels of water, doubtless in order to escape
from the ghost.4 In New Zealand, among the
Maoris, all who had attended a funeral used to betake
themselves to the nearest stream and plunge several
times, head under in the water.5 In Tahiti all who
had assisted at a burial fled precipitately and plunged
into the sea, casting also in the sea the garments
they had worn.6
Among the Singhalese of Ceylon the funeral
party bathe before returning to the house, and are
1 R. Sutherland Rattray, Some
Folk-Lore, Stories and Songs in
Chinyanja (London, 1907), p. 94.
2 C. J. Andersson, Lake Ngami
(London, 1856), p. 467.
3 J. Leighton Wilson, Western
Africa (London, 1856), ch. 17.
4 N. Adriani in A. C. Kruijt, De
Bare*e-sprekende Toradjas van M id­
den Celebes, ii. pp. 98, 99,
5 W, Yate, An Account of New
Zealand (London, 1835), p. 137 ;
R. Taylor, Te Ika A Mauir or New
Zealand and its Inhabitants, Second
Edition (London, 1870), p. 224;
Annales de la Propagation de la
Foi, xv. (1843) PP* 23-24.
6 Rev. William Ellis, Polynesian
Researches, Second Edition (London,
1832-1836),!. p. 403.
46 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
supplied by the washerwoman with newly washed
clothes ; during their absence the house is well
cleansed and purified by the sprinkling of water
mixed with cow-dung.1 The Oraons of Bengal after
attending a burial always bathe before they return
to the village.2 In the Shan States of Burma, it is said
that similarly all persons who have handled a corpse
are obliged to bathe before they return to the village.3
Among the Kiwai of British New Guinea,
mourners returning from a burial swim in the sea.
Those who have carried the dead body spit ginger
over their hands and afterwards rub them with a
sweet-smelling herb. Until they have done so,
nobody will touch his own body with his hands.
After washing they smear face and body with clay,
which is renewed from time to time.4 In this
custom the water, the ginger and the clay are prob­
ably alike regarded as protectives against the ghost.
Similarly the natives of Rook, an island off the
north-east coast of New Guinea, go and purify
themselves in the sea immediately after a burial.6
Among the aborigines of America the use of
water as a barrier against the dead appears to be
familiar. Thus of the Songish Indians of Van­
1 A. Perera, “ Glimpses of Sin- the Tribes inhabiting the Shan
ghalese Social Life ” , Indian Anti- States ” , Indian Antiquary, xxi. p.
quary, xxi. p. 382. 119.
2 E. T. Dalton, Descriptive Eth- 4 G. Landtman, The Kiwai
nology of Bengal (Calcutta, 1872), Papuans of British New Guinea
p. 262 ; Sarat Chandra Roy, Oraon (London, 1927), p. 265.
Religion and Customs (Ranchi, 1928), 6 P. Ambrosoli, “ Extrait d’une
p. 175. notice sur lTle de Rook ” , Annales
3 “ Notes on the Manners, Cus- de la Propagation de la Foi, xxvii.
toms, Religion and Superstitions of (1855) p. 363.
LECTURE II 47
couver Island we are told that after a burial the
whole tribe used to go down to the sea and bathe,
wash their heads and cut their hair.1 Among the
Tarahumare Indians of Mexico on the occasion of
a death by suicide all the women, after bidding fare­
well to the dead body, ran quickly into a deep water-
hole, splashing into it, clothes and all, that nothing
from the dead might attach itself to them.2 In
ancient Mexico all those who had helped to bury a
king of Michoacan bathed afterwards.3 Amongst
the Mosquito Indians all persons returning from a
funeral undergo a lustration in the river.4 Among
some of the Indians of Peru ten days after a death,
the relatives of the deceased used to assemble and
conduct the next of kin to a river or its springs where
they thoroughly washed and scrubbed him to rid
him, no doubt, of the contagion of death, or'rather,
as we may surmise, of the ghost of the deceased,
who might be adhering to him.5
In civilized Europe also the barrier of water has
sometimes been resorted to as a protection against
the spirits of the dead. Thus, for example, in some
parts of Transylvania “ it is usual for the procession
returning from a funeral to take its way through a
river or stream of running water, sometimes going
1 Sixth Report of the North-
Western Tribes of Canada {Report of
the British Association for 1890),
Second General Report on the Indians
of British Columbia, by Dr. Fr. Boas,
p. 23.
2 C. Lumholtz, Unknown Mexico
(London, 1903), p. 389.
3 H. H. Bancroft, Native Races of
the Pacific States, ii. p. 621 ; Bras-
seut de Bourbourg, Histoire des
nations civilisies de Mexique et de
VAmlrique Centrale (Paris, 1857-
1859), ii>- P- 85.
4 H. H. Bancroft, op. cit. i. p, 744.
5 Padre Pablo de Arriaga, Extir-
pacidn de la Idolatria del Peru
(Lima, 1621), p. 33.
48 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
a mile or two out of their way to avoid all bridges,
thus making sure that the vagrant soul of the beloved
deceased will not follow them back to the house” .12
The Wends of Geislitz make a point of passing
through running water after a burial; in winter, if
the river is frozen, they break the ice in order to
wade through the water.8 In modern Mytilini and
Crete if a man will not rest in his grave they dig
up the body, ferry it across to a little island, and
bury it there.3 The Kythniotes of the Archipelago
have a similar custom, except that they do not take
the trouble to bury the body a second time, but
simply tumble the bones out of a bag and leave them
to bleach on the rocks, trusting to the “ silver streak ”
of sea to imprison the ghost.4 In many parts of
Germany, in modern Greece and in Cyprus, water
is poured out behind the corpse as it is being carried
from the -house, in the belief that, if the ghost
returns, he will not be able to cross it.5
*
* Sometimes,
1 E. Gerard, The Land beyond the
Forest (Edinburgh and London,
1888), p. 316.
2 K. Haupt, Sagenbuch der Lau-
sitz (Leipsic, 1862-1863), i. p. 254.
3 B. Schmidt, Das Volkleben der•
Neugriechen (Leipsic, 1871), p. 168.
4 J. T. Bent, The Cyclades (Lon­
don, 1885), p. 441 sq.
5 A. Kuhn, Mdrkische Sagen und
Mdrcken (Berlin, 1843), P- 368;
J. D. H. Temme, Die Volkssagen
in Altmark (Berlin, 1839), p. 77;
F. Nork, Sitten und Gebrauche der
Deutschen und ihrer Nachbarvalker,
p. 479; A . Wuttke, Der deuische
Volksaberglaube(Berlin, 1869),p. 737;
C. M. Rochholz, Deutscher Glaube
und Branch (Berlin, 1867), i. p. 177 ;
G. Lammert, Volksmedizin und
medizinischer Aberglauber aus Ba­
yern (Wurzburg, 1869), p. 105; M.
Toppen, Aberglauben aus Masuren
(Danzig, 1867), p. 108 ; A. Witschel,
Sagen, Sitten und Gebrauche aus
Thilringen (Vienna, 1878), ii. p. 258 ;
Panzer, Beitrdge zur deutschen
Mythologie (Munich, 1848-1855), i.
p. 257 ; Folk-LoreJournal, ii. p. 170 ;
C. Wachsmuth, Das alte Griechen-
land im neuen (Bonn, 1864), p. 119 ;
Tettau und Temme, Die Volkssagen
Ostpreussens, Litauens und West-
preussens (Berlin, 1837), p. 286 ;
A . Kuhn, Sagen} Gebrauche und
Marchen aus Westphalen (Leipsic,
1848), ii. p. 49.
LECTURE II 49
by night, the Germans pour holy water before the
door; the ghost is thought to stand and whimper
on the further side.1 In some parts of the North-
East of Scotland after a death the neighbours did
not yoke their horses unless there was a stream of
running water between them and the house in which
the dead body lay.2
In ancient Greece the relations washed themselves
after the funerals.2 So long as a corpse was in the
house a vessel of water stood before the street door,
that all who left the house might sprinkle themselves
with it.4 Sometimes after a death the house of
mourning was sprinkled with salt water.5 In old
Rome the barrier of water after a death survived in
a much attenuated form : it sufficed to carry water
three times round the persons who had been engaged
in the funeral and to sprinkle them with the water.6
The ancient Scythians in mourning washed them­
selves, and took a vapour bath.7 A very peculiar
case of our water barrier is recorded by Plutarch;
he says that when a man had died of dropsy or
consumption his children had to sit with their feet in
water till the corpse had decayed.8 Apparently,
1 Wuttke, op. cit. § 748; Roch-
holz, op. cit. i. p. 186.
2 Rev. Walter Gregor, Notes on
the Folk-Lore of the North-east of
Scotland (London, 1881), p. 207.
8 Scholia on Aristophanes, Clouds>
838.
4 Pollux, viii. 65 ; Hesychius and
Suidas, s.v. &p6di>iov ; cf. Wachs-
muth, op. cit. p. 109.
5 H. Roehl, Inscriptiones Graecae
Antiquissimae (Berlin, 1883), No.
395; G. Dittenberger, Sylloge In-
scriptionum Graecarum, No. 468;
P. Cauer, Delectus Inscriptionum
Graecarum propter dialectum me-
morabiliumf 2 (Leipsic, 1883), No.
530.
• Virgil, Aeneid, vi. 228. Servius
on this passage speaks of carrying
fire round similarly. We shall re­
turn presently to the barrier of fire.
7 Herodotus, iv. 73, 75.
8 Plutarch, De sera numinis vin-
dicta, c. 14.
5° THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
although Plutarch does not say so, this was a pre­
caution to prevent the ghost of a man who had died
of dropsy from attacking his surviving children and
afflicting them with the malady which had proved
fatal to him. We have seen that among the Torad-
jas of Celebes mourners on returning from a funeral
planted their feet in vessels of water, apparently to
evade the pursuit of the ghost. For a similar pur­
pose apparently, when a man has died of dropsy
among the natives of Rajamahall in India, they do
not bury the body but throw it into a river and then
bathe themselves in another part of the river.1 Thus
they adopt in a double form the barrier of water
against the ghost of a man who has died of dropsy ;
first they throw his body into a river and then they
bathe themselves in another part of the same river,
so making assurance doubly sure. Alike in the
Greek and the Indian custom the notion seems to be
that on homoeopathic principles water is the best
preservative against death by dropsy. So similar
is the rut in which error has flowed in ancient Greece
and in modern India.
1 Th. Shaw, “ On the Inhabitants near Rajamahall ” , Asiatic Researches,
iv. (Calcutta, 1795).
L E C T U R E III
LECTURE III
In the last lecture I dealt with some of the barriers
which primitive man erects to prevent the spirits of
the dead from returning to haunt and trouble the
living ; in particular I described the barrier of water
which he sometimes adopts for that purpose. Often
with the same object he has recourse to a barrier of
fire.1
Thus, for example, among some of the Tartars it
used to be customary for all persons returning from
a burial to leap over a fire made for the purpose, “ in
order that the dead man might not follow them ; for
apparently in their opinion he would be afraid of
the fire ” .2
In the like circumstances some Tartars instead of
leaping over a fire used to pass between two fires, but
the object of the passage was no doubt the same.3
Among the Yakut no one but the gravediggers
accompanies a corpse to the grave, and even they
hasten to complete their work and return home ; on
1 On the barrier of fire against
the spirits of the dead, cf. The Golden
Bough, Part IV. Balder the Beauti­
fu l, ii. pp. 17-19-
2 J. G. Gmelin, JReise dutch S i-
herien (Gottingen, 1751-1752), i.
333*
3 Johannes de Plano de Carpini,
Historia Mongolorum (d’Avezac
edition) (Paris, 1838), c. iv.
53
54 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
their way back they do not stop or look behind, and
when they enter the gate of the village, they and the
animals which drew the coffin to the grave must pass
through a fire made of the straw on which the dead
man lay and the wood left from the making of the
coffin. Other things which have been in contact
with the dead, such as the shovel, are also broken
and burnt.1 According to another authority, “ the
Yakut bury their dead as a rule on the day of the
death, and in order not to take the demon of death
home with them, they kindle fires on the way back
from the burial and jump over them in the belief
that the demon of death, who dreads fire, will not
follow them, and that in this way they will be freed
from the persecutions of the hated demon of death ” .2
In this passage the demon of death is probably a
mistake of the writer for the ghost of the deceased ;
the conception of a demon of death is by no means
primitive. In Sikkim, when members of the
Khambu caste have buried a corpse, all persons
present at the burial “ adjourn to a stream for a bath
of purification, and, on re-entering the house, have
to tread on a bit of burning cloth, to prevent the evil
spirits who attend at funerals from following them
in ” .a Here again, the barrier of fire is probably
directed not so much against evil spirits in general
as against the spirit of the dead. It will be observed
1 M. A. Czaplicka, Aboriginal 319 ; cf. V . Priklonski, “ Todten-
Siberia (Oxford, 1914), p. 160. gebrauche der Jakuten ” , Globus, lix.
2 W. L. Priklonski, “ Ober das (1891) p. 85.
Schamanthum bei den Jakuten ” in
A. Bastian’s A Herlei aus Volks-und 8 J. A.H . Louis, The Gatesof Thibet
Menschenkunde (Berlin, 1888), i. (Calcutta, 1894), p. n 6.
LECTURE III 55
that these people seek to protect themselves against
the spiritual danger by a barrier of water as well as
by a barrier of fire.
In China, after a corpse has been interred fires
are kindled at the four corners of the cemetery to
prevent the soul of the deceased from wandering
away from the grave.1 And when the funeral party
returns to the house a fire of straw is kindled at
the door, and all the members of the family pass
over it and through the flames, after which they
believe themselves to be safe from the pursuit of the
ghost.2 But sometimes as an additional precaution
on entering the house, they wash their eyes with
water in which the leaves of the pomeloe tree have
been boiled.3 Thus they reinforce the barrier of
fire by a barrier of water. Again in China, when a
coroner has been holding an inquest on a dead body,
the mandarins who have attended the inquest step
over a small fire before they enter their palanquins
to be carried home, and the ceremony is repeated at
the door of their house.4
Among the Oraons of Bengal on the return of a
funeral party to the house a fire of chaff is kindled
in the courtyard and oil poured on it to create a
smoke. Over this smoke every one of the party
places the palms of his or her hands by way of
ceremonial purification.5 Among the Birhors, a
1 P. J. Dols, “ La Vie chinoise 4 J. J. M. de Groot, The Religious
dans la province deKan-sou (Chine)” , System of China (Leyden, 1892),
Anthrofos (1915-1916) p. 756. p. 137 ; cf. id. p. 32.
2 Dols, op.cit. p. 741. 6 Sarat Chandra Roy, Oraon
3 J. H. Gray, China (London, Religion and Customs (Ranchi,.1928),'
1878), i, p. 305 ; cf. p. 287. p. 175-
V O L . II E
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
primitive tribe of Chota Nagpur in India, after a
body has been buried, standing at the grave the son
or grandson of the deceased takes up a lighted torch
in his right hand and some one stands beside him
pressing his left eye with one hand. With his left
eye thus closed, he walks round the grave three
times, and then puts the torch over the corpse's
mouth.1 Thus the heir appears to place a barrier of
fire between himself and the dead. And among the
same people, when the funeral party has returned
from the grave they bathe and have to undergo a
further ceremony of purification by fire. In their
absence a fire -of charcoal has been prepared by the
women, and on the approach of the funeral party a
quantity of aromatic resin of the sal tree is sprinkled
on the fire to produce a strong-smelling smoke.
Arriving there each one of the party touches the
fire with his left great toe and waves his left hand
over the fire.8 Thus, once more a barrier of fire
reinforces a barrier of water. Among the Lakhers
of Assam, when a dead man has been buried in
another village, before leaving the lands of the
village in which the funeral has taken place, a fire
is kindled, and the visitors step over the fire. A
disease-bearing spirit cannot pass over a fire and so
is unable to follow the visitors home.® Among the
Lhota Nagas, another tribe of Assam, when a death
by accident has taken place, the friends of the dead
man build a little shed and put some clothes and
1 Sarat Chandra Roy, The B ir- p. 272.
hors (Ranchi, 1925), pp. 270, 271. 3 N. E. Parry, The LakKers
* Sarat Chandra Roy, op. cit. (London, 1932), p. 405.
56
LECTURE III 57
food in it. On the day after the death, an old man
lights a fire in front of the house and sacrifices a
cock. All the members of the family come out of
the house stark naked and, after stepping over the
fire, enter the shed, where they remain six days
without speaking to any one, their food being
provided by friends.1 As we shall see later on, the
ghosts of all persons who die by accident or violence
are particularly dreaded, and special precautions
have to be taken against them. The example of the
Lhota Nagas is a case in point. Among these same
Lhota Nagas, when a man has been drowned on a
fishing expedition the accident is announced in the
village before the return of the fishers. An old man
thereupon comes forth from the village and lights a
fire on the path by which the fishers are returning ;
and every one of the fishers must step over the fire
before he returns to the village.2 Among the lower
castes, of Upper India, when the mourners return
from a funeral they touch a stone, cow-dung, iron,
fire and water, which have been placed outside the
house in readiness when the corpse was removed,
and after a cremation the officiating Brahman touches
fire in order to purify himself and to bar the return
of the ghost.3 In these latter cases the mere
touching of fire is probably a later substitute for an
older custom of stepping over it. In the Nicobar
1 W. Crooke, Religion and Folk­
lore of Northern India, edited by
R. E. Enthoven (London, 1926), p.
239 *?•
2 J. P. Mills, The Lhota Nagas
(London, 1922), p. 162.
8 W. Crooke, The Popular Re­
ligion and Folklore of Northern
India (London, 1896), ii. p. 59.
58 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Islands, while a dead body is lying in a house, a
fire is kindled and maintained at the foot of the
house ladder. The intention of the fire is said to be
partly to keep the disembodied spirit far off, partly
to apprise friends at a distance of the sad occurrence.
The fire is either kindled directly by the friction of
sticks or is obtained from another fire, which is
known to have been so ignited.1 From this account
it appears that the soul of the deceased is supposed
to have quitted the house before the burial, and the
object of the fire is to prevent it from re-entering the
dwelling.
In Africa also the barrier of fire against the spirits
of the dead meets us in a variety of forms. Thus we
read of a Bushman who, fearing to be haunted by the
ghost of his dead wife, first dashed the head of the
corpse to pieces, and after burying the body, lighted
a fire upon the grave, as an additional precaution
to prevent the return of her spirit.2 Among the
Tumbuka of Nyasaland, when a burial party is
returning from the grave, they are met by a medicine­
man who has kindled a great fire on the path into
which he has thrown some roots ; each member of
the party must pass through the flames before he
returns to the village.3 Among the Atonga of what
used to be called British Central Africa, mourners re­
turning fromthe grave bathe inwater. Then the chief
undertaker fetches a torch of grass pulled from the
1 E. H. Man, The Nicobar Islands Southern Africa (London, 1815),
and their JPeople (London, n.d.), p. ii. p. 61.
133. 8 D. Fraser, Winning a Primitive
2 Henry Lichtenstein, Travels in People (London, 1914), p. 159.
LECTURE III 59
roof of the dead man’s hut, lights it at the fire in the
same hut, jumps over it himself, and then holds it a
few inches from the ground for the whole party to
jump over, one by one. After being rubbed with
certain roots on back and front by a woman they are
deemed to be sufficiently purified to return home.1
Among the Boloki of the Upper Congo, a good
instance of the barrier by fire was witnessed by
Mr. Weeks ; he says : “ One day I saw an old
woman whom I knew very well sitting in the centre
of a ring of fire, and upon inquiry I found that she
had had much to do with preparing a corpse for
burial, and at the close of the ceremony she had to
be purified. A ring of fire made of small sticks
encircled her; she took a leaf, dried it, crunched it
in her fist, and sprinkled it on the fire, moving her
hands, palms downwards, over the fire ring. When
the fire had died out a witch-doctor took hold of the
little finger of her left hand with the little finger of
his right hand, and, lifting her arm, he drew her out
of the fire circle purified. She was now supposed to
be cleansed from all contamination with the dead.” 2
Among the Fangs of West Africa, after a month of
mourning, the widows of the deceased are obliged to
step across a fire in the middle of the village; and
while some leaves are still burning under their feet,
they sit down and their heads are shaved. From
this moment they are purified from mourning, or, as
the writer who reports it suggests* delivered from the
1 A. Werner, The Natives of 2 J. H. Weeks, Among Congo
British Central Africa (London, Cannibals (London, 1913), p. 102.
1906), pp. 162-163.
6o THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
ghost of their husband and they now can be passed
on to his heirs.1
1i.mong the Ewe-speaking people of the Slave
Coast, “ in Agweh a widow is supposed to remain
shut up for six months in the room in which her
husband is buried, during which time she may not
wash or change her clothes. Food is carried to her
by the family. According to report, in bygone days
widows underwent a kind of fumigation in these
burial chambers, a fire being lighted on the floor and
strewn with red peppers, till they were nearly
suffocated by the fumes. At the end of the period of
mourning the widows wash, shave the head, pare the
nails, and put on clean cloths ; the old clodis, the
hair and the nail-parings being burned. A t Agweh
men who have lost their head wives do this also, after
having remained shut up in a room of the house for
eight days.” 2 The purification of widows by fire
and water on the Gold Coast has been described as
follows by Miss Mary Kingsley. " T o the surf and
its spirits the sea-board dwelling Tschwis bring
women who have had children and widows, both
after a period of eight days from the birth of the
child, or the death of the husband. A widow
remains in the house until this period has elapsed,
neglecting her person, eating little food, and sitting
on the bare floor in the attitude of mourning. On
the Gold Coast they bury very quickly, as they are
1 E . Allegret, “ Les Idees re- 2 A. B. Ellis, The Ewe-Speaking
ligieuses des Fans (Afrique Occi- Peoples of the Slave Coast of West
dentale) ” , Revue de VHistoire des Africa (London, 1890), p. 160.
Religions) i. (1904) p. 220*
LECTURE III 61
always telling you, usually on the day after death,
rarely later thanthethird day, even among thenatives,
and the spirit, or srak, of the dead man is supposed
to hang about his wives and his house until the
ceremony of purification is carried out. This is
done, needless to say, with uproar. The relatives of
each wife go to her house with musical instruments
— I mean tom-toms and that sort of thing— and they
take a quantity of mint, which grows wild in this
country, with them. This mint they burn, some of
it in the house, the rest they place upon pans of
live coals and carry round the widow as she goes in
their midst down to the surf, her relatives singing
aloud to the srah of the departed husband, telling
him that now he is dead and has done with the lady,
he must leave her. This singing serves to warn all
the women who are not relations to get out of the
way, which of course they always carefully do,
because if they were to see the widow their own
husbands would die within the year.” Arrived at
the surf, they strip every rag off the widow and
throw it into the surf; and the widow is arrayed in a
suit of dark blue baft in which she returns home.1
The Goajire Indians of Colombia keep up great
fires at night in the village to ward off the ghosts of
their dead enemies, who are apt to come and attack
them with knives in the darkness ; but protected by
this barrier of fire they feel themselves quite safe
from their invisible foes.2 And in the same tribe
1 Mary H. Kingsley, Travels in 2 H, Candelier, Rio Hacha et les
West Africa (London, 1897), p. 515. Indiens Goajires (Paris, 1893), P* I7I*
62 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
when a man has been buried custom requires that
his nearest relatives should keep up a great fire near
the grave for nine days after the burial, to protect
their deceased kinsman from the ghosts of their dead
enemies, who would otherwise come to molest him ;
for according to their belief life is not really extinct
until nine days after death.1 In this case it will be
observed that the barrier of fire is directed not
against the ghost of a dead friend, but against the
ghosts of dead enemies, who might come by night
to injure him.
In Europe also the barrier of fire against ghosts
has not been unknown. In Mecklenburg, if fire and
water are thrown after the corpse as it is being
carried out the ghost will not afterwards appear in
the house.8 In ancient Rome, no doubt for a similar
purpose, mourners returning from a funeral used to
step over fire.3 Some South Slavonians returning
from a funeral are met by an old woman carrying a
vessel of live coals. On these they pour water, or
else take a live coal from the hearth and fling it over
their heads.* In Ruthenia the barrier of fire against
a ghost is still more attenuated ; mourners merely
look steadfastly on the stove or place their hands
upon it.5
So much for the barriers which primitive man
erects to protect himself against the return of the
spirit of the dead, but even when he has driven away
1 Op. cit. p. 220. 3 Festus, s.v. aqua et igne.
2 Bartschl, Sagen, Marchen und 4 W. R. Ralston, Songs of the Pus-
Gebrauche aus Mecklenburg (Vienna, siart People (London, 1872), p. 320.
1879-1880), ii. p. 96. 6 W. R. Ralston, loc. cit.
LECTURE III 6
3
these dangerous spirits and placed obstacles in the
way of their return, he is still far from feeling easy,
he still fears that they may break through the
obstacles and return to haunt and torment the living.
He is not, however, at the end of his resources, he
has still many devices by which he hopes to bar the
return of the ghosts, or at all events to render them
impotent for mischief. Thus, for instance, failing
as usual to distinguish the spiritual from the cor­
poreal, he imagines that by tying up or mutilating
and maiming a corpse he simultaneously ties up or
mutilates and maims the dead person’s ghost in
exactly the same manner. To take instances : the
Dieri of Central Australia used to tie the great toes
and the thumbs of a corpse together to prevent the
ghost from walking. The ceremony was witnessed
by a constable, who describes it as follows : “ Some
of the younger men went off to dig a grave, and the
elder ones proceeded to tie the great toes of the body
together very securely, with strong, stout string, and
then tied both the thumbs together behind the back,
the body being turned face downwards whilst the
latter operation was going on. From the manner in
which the strings were tightened and the care taken
over that part of the business, one would think that
even a strong, healthy living man could not break or
rise from such bonds. In reply to me they said that
the tying was to prevent him from ‘ walking 1
Among the natives of the Herbert River in South-
1 R. Brough Smyth, The Aborigines of Victoria (London, 1878), i.
P* 1X
9-
64 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
East Australia a near relative of the deceased used
to beat the corpse with a mallet so violently as often
to break the bones. Incisions were also generally
made in the stomach, on the shoulder and in the
lungs and filled with stones. The legs were gener­
ally broken for the express purpose of preventing
the dead man from walking at night. The beating
of the body, we are told, was for the sake of so
frightening the ghost as to prevent it from haunting
the camp, and the stones were put in the body to
prevent it going too far afield.1 Speaking of the
natives of Queensland the Swedish traveller Lum-
holtz says : “ The fact that the natives bestow any
care on the bodies of the dead is doubtless owing to
their fear of the spirits of the departed. In some
places I have seen the legs drawn up and tied fast to
the bodies, in order to hinder the spirits of the dead,
as it were, from getting out to frighten the living.
Women and children, whose spirits are not feared,
receive less attention and care after death.” 2 And
speaking of the Australian aborigines in general
another authority observes : “ When a man dies, it
is a very widely-spread custom for the relations to
tie up the limbs of the corpse securely, so as to
prevent his coming out of the grave in the shape of
a ghost ” .s The same writer describes as follows
the usual mode of burial among the Australian
aborigines : “ Shortly after death, the body, in the
1 A. W. Howitt, The Native Tribes (London, 1889), pp. 277-278.
of South-Eastern Australia (Lon- 3 E. M. Curr, The Australian
don, 1904), p. 474. Race (Melbourne and London, 1886),
2 C< Lumholtz, Among Cannibals i. p. 44.
LECTURE III 65
case of a man, is reduced as nearly as possible to the
shape of a ball. To effect this the knees are forced
up to the neck and firmly tied to i t ; the heels are
then pressed against the hams, the arms lie flat along
the sides, and are secured in each instance in these
positions by cords. Some tribes tie the thumbs to­
gether ; others burn the thumb nails besides. . . .
The object sought in tying up the remains of the
dead is to prevent the deceased from escaping from
the tomb and frightening or injuring the survivors.
The more nearly related and more influential in life,
the more the deceased is feared.” 1 To take some
particular examples, concerning the natives near
Newcastle in Western Australia, we are told that,
“ in burying the dead, besides taking off the finger
nails, the thumb and forefinger of each hand are tied
tightly together, with the object of preventing the
corpse from escaping from the tomb and frightening
the survivors. The more nearly an individual is
related to the deceased the greater is his fear of the
ghost.” 2 Again, about the natives near Perth in
Western Australia it is recorded th at: “ The limbs
of the corpse are securely tied together with bands of
rushes or bark, so as, if possible, to hinder it from
getting out of the grave and wandering about in the
shape of a ghost, of which the Australian Black in
all parts is perpetually apprehensive ” .3 Again,
concerning the Whajook tribe in Western Australia,
we read th at: “ Before interment the hair is cut off
1 E. M. Curr, op. cit. i. p. 87. Australian Race, i. p. 324.
2 G. Whitfield in E. Curr’s The 8 E. M. Curr, op. cit. i. p. 330.
66 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
and the nails burnt. This, and the binding of the
corpse into the shape of a ball, are to prevent its
escape from the grave.” 12 Once more, concerning
the natives in the neighbourhood of King George’s
Sound we are informed that at burial “ the knees of
the corpse are doubled up and tied ; the forefinger
and thumb of the right hand are tied together, the
thumb nail is burnt off, to prevent, as they say, the
deceased digging his way out and using his spears ” .a
It is reported that, in most parts of Central
Borneo, when a death has taken place the corpse is
brought out from the chamber into the common
room of the house and there securely fastened down
to the floor by bandages, tightened by pegs, which
are passed round the arms and legs, the neck, the
chest, and the trunk, constricting the body in such
a way that even a strong living man would not be
able to get up. The object of this constriction is
said to be to prevent the ghost from returning to
the body and doing harm to the living.3 Among the
Taungthu, a widely spread race of Upper Burma,
when a man dies the thumbs and great toes of the
corpse are tied together, and this is said by some to
be intended to hinder the dead man from walking.4
With a similar object we are told the ancient Indians
used to put fetters on the feet of their dead, in order
to prevent their ghosts from returning to the land of
1 E. M. Curr, op. cit. i. p. 339.
2 E. M. Curr, op. cit. i. p. 348.
3 Oscar von Kessel, “ t)ber die
Volksstamme Borneos ” , Zeitschrift
fu r allgemeine Erdkunde, N.F. iii.
(1857) pp. 377-410.
4 J. G. Scott and J. P. Hardiman,
Gazetteer of Upper Burma, Part I.
i. (Rangoon, 1900) p. 554.
LECTURE III 67
the living and molesting the survivors.1 Among the
Chuvash of Russia, when a very ugly man has died,
they fasten his corpse down into the grave with iron,
lest his ghost should come back to scare living folk
by his ungainly appearance.2
And whenever a wicked and quarrelsome man
dies they think that his ghost will certainly return to
wreak its spite upon the living. In order to obviate
this danger they take strong measures to hinder the
man, or rather his ghost, from escaping from the
coffin ; they drive nails through the heart and soles
of the feet of the corpse ; they nail the coffin securely
down, and to make assurance still surer they
constrict it with iron hoops.3 Similarly, among the
Cheremiss, a neighbouring tribe of Russia, when a
bad man dies they drive nails through his heart and
the soles of his feet to prevent his ghost from coming
back and harming the survivors.4 Among the
Barundi of Central Africa when a person has died
the men tie the limbs of the corpse tightly together
on purpose, it is said, to prevent the return of the
ghost, which they greatly fear.5
In America among the Tupinambas of Brazil the
custom at burial is said to have been as follows :
“ The corpse had all its limbs tied fast, that it might
1 H. Zimmer, Altindisches Lehen
(Berlin, 1879), p. 402.
2 H. Vambery, Das Tiirkenvolk
(Leipsig, 1885), p. 462.
3 A. Erman, “ Briefliche Nach-
richten fiber die Tschuwaschen und
die Tscheremisen des Gouvern-
ments Kaspan ” , Archiv fu r wissen­
sedaftliche Kunde von Russland> i.
(1841) p. 376.
4 A. F. von Haxthausen, Studien
uber die innern Zustdnde, das
Volksleben und inbesondere die
landlichen Einricktungen Russlands
(Hannover, 1847), i. p, 449m.
6 Hans Meyer, Die Barundi
(Leipsic, 1916), p. 113.
68 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
not be able to get up and infest its friends with its
visits A custom curiously different from the
foregoing is reported of some of the Eskimo at
Bering Strait. The corpse is tied up in a bundle
with cord, the head being forced down between the
knees, and in this state it is drawn up through the
smoke hole in the roof and carried to the graveyard
till the coffin is ready for it. Just before the body is
placed in the coffin the cords that bind it are cut, in
order, they say, that the ghost may return and occupy
the body and move about if necessary.2 In this case
the cords which bind the body are clearly supposed
to bind the ghost also, but the custom of untying them
before placing the body in the coffin indicates that
these Eskimo do not greatly dread a possible return
of the ghost to its mortal remains in the grave.
So much for the custom of tying up the corpse in
order to prevent the ghost from roving and doing a
mischief to the survivors, but for the same purpose
primitive man sometimes resorts to still stronger
measures. He breaks the bones of the dead body,
or otherwise mutilates it in such a fashion as would
disable a living man, thinking thus to disable the
ghost in a precisely similar manner. We have seen
that some of the Australian aborigines break the legs
of the dead to hinder their ghosts from walking.
A tribe of the Cameroons in West Africa adopted
still more forcible measures for accomplishing the
1 Robert Southey, History of about Bering Strait” , x8th Annual
Brazil, (1817) (London, 1817) Report of the Bureau of American
p. 258. Ethnology (1896-1897), Part I,
2 E. W. Nelson, “ The Eskimo (1899) p. 314.
LECTURE III 69
same purpose; as described by Dr. Nassau, an
excellent authority, the custom was as follows. “ O f
one tribe in the upper course of the Ogowe, I was
told, who, in their intense fear of ghosts, and their
dread of the possible evil influence of the spirits of
their own dead relatives, sometimes adopt a horrible
plan for preventing their return. With a very
material idea of a spirit, they seek to disable it by
beating the corpse until every bone is broken. The
mangled mass is hung in a bag at the foot of a tree
in the forest. Thus mutilated the spirit is supposed
to be unable to return to the village, to entice into its
fellowship of death any of the survivors/’ 1 Among
the Afars, a Danakil tribe on the southern borders
of Abyssinia, all the bones of a corpse are broken
before it is buried.2 The motive for doing so is not
mentioned by our authority, but we may conjecture
that the object is thereby to render the ghost helpless.
Among the Herero or Damara of South-West Africa,
the backbone of a corpse is broken immediately after
death. “ The Herero say that in the spinal cord
lives a small worm (maggot) which becomes after
death the ghost of the deceased. This can be killed
by fracturing the backbone : hence the proceeding
here mentioned.” 3 Thus it would appear that the
Herero adopt the radical expedient of not merely
1 Rev. R. H. Nassau, Fetichism in
West Africa (London, 1904), p. 234.
2 Ph. Paulitsche, Ethnographic
Nordost Afrikas. Die materielle
Cultur der Danakil, Galla und
Somdl (Berlin, 1893), p. 205.
3 The Rev. G. Viehe, “ Some
Customs of the Ovaherero ” , South
African Folk-Lore Journal, i. Part
III. (May 1879) P- 55 ; cf. C. J.
Anderson, Lake Ngami (London,
1856), p. 226; P. H. Brincker,
“ Beobachtungen uber die Deisi-
damonie der Eingeborenen Deutsch-
Siidwest-Afrikas ” , Globus, lviii.
(1890) p. 322.
70 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
disabling but killing the ghost. To this practice of
killing the ghost we shall return later on.
Among the Kissi on the borders of Liberia
the souls of dead witches and wizards are greatly
dreaded. And when one of these folk dies the
people smash his or her skull with heavy blows of a
stone, believing that if this precaution is not adopted
the ghost would issue from the grave on the third
day after death and returning to the houses would
beat the inhabitants and carry off their goods.1 O f
the Indians of the Californian Peninsula in North
America we are told that formerly they had broken
the spine of the deceased before burying them, and
had thrown them into the ditch rolled up like a ball,
believing that they would rise up again if not treated
in this manner.2
But the breaking of the bones of the corpse is not
the only mutilation of the body to which primitive
man resorts for the purpose of disabling the ghost.
He sometimes maims or mangles the body in other
ways at least as radical. Thus with regard to the
Kwearriburra tribe of Queensland in Australia we
are told “ that unless strong preventive measures
are taken, the spirits of departed members of the
tribe rise from their graves and continually haunt
and otherwise annoy those who are still in the flesh.
Accordingly, elaborate precautions are adopted, to
keep the unfortunate ghosts confined in the grave
1 H. Neel, “ Note sur deux peu- 2 Account of the Aboriginal In-
plades de la frontiere Liberienne, les habitants of the Californian Penin-
Kissi et les Tom a” , UAnthropo- sula^etc. Report of the Smithsonian
logie, xxiv. (1913) p. 462. Institution for 1864, p. 387.
LECTURE III 7i
which holds their mortal clay. The modus operandi
is as follows : On the death of a member of the
tribe, his or her head is cut off and the trunk placed
in a grave in the usual squatting position, and covered
up. A fire is then lighted on the top, in which the
head is roasted ; when it is thoroughly charred it is
broken up into little bits amongst the hot coals, and
the fire is then left to die gradually out. The theory
is that the spirit rising from the grave to follow the
tribe misses its head, and goes groping about to find
i t ; but being bereft of its head, it is of course blind,
and therefore, not being able to see the fire, gets
burnt. This frightens it so terribly that it retires
into the grave again with all expedition, and never
again presumes to attempt a renewal of social inter­
course with the human denizens of this world.” 1
Among the natives of Australia others cut off the
thumbs of their dead enemies in order that their
ghosts may not be able to throw spears.2
For a similar purpose apparently when the Tupi
Indians of Brazil killed and ate a prisoner they cut
off his thumb because of its use in archery, but they
did not eat it with the rest of the body.3 Other
Australian aborigines put hot coals in the ears of a
corpse to keep the soul in the body and prevent it
from following them till they have got a good start
away fromhim. As a furtherprecautionthey barkthe
1 F. C. Urquhart, “ Legends of
the Australian Aborigines Journal
of the Anthropological Institute, xiv.
(18S5) p. 88.
2 A . Oldfield, “ On the Aborigines
of Australia ” , Transactions of the
V O L . II
Ethnological Society of London,
N.S. iii. (1865) p. 287.
8 R. Southey, History of Brazil,
vol. i. Second Edition (London,
1822), p. 231.
F
72 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
trees in a circle round the spot, so that when the ghost
succeeds in extricating himself from the body and
setting off in pursuit of his friends, he may wander
round and round in a circle and never overtake them.1
The Toradjas of Central Celebes believe that men
can become werewolves. When a man has been
found guilty of this horrible crime they take him to
a lonely spot and hack him to pieces, but they fear
that if they were bespattered with his blood they
wouldthemselves beturned intowerewolves. Further,
they place the severed head of the werewolf beside
his hinder-quarters, with the avowed intention of
hindering his soul from coming to life again and
pursuing his depredations.2
The Birhors of Bengal believe that the ghost of
a woman who dies within a short time of childbirth
is very dangerous, and to prevent her ghost from
issuing from the grave they prick the soles of her
feet with thorns.3 Similarly the Santals, another
primitive people of Bengal, believe that the ghosts
of a certain class of women are very dangerous.
They are supposed to lick their victims to death,
filing off their flesh with their rough tongues. When
any of these women die, the survivors slide thorns
into the soles of their feet, thus rendering them lame
and powerless to pursue their victims.4
1 A, W. Howitt, Native Tribes Land- en VolkenkundeDeel xli.
of South-East Australia (London, (1899) p. 559.
1904), p. 473. 3 S. Chandra Roy, The Birhors
(Ranchi, 1925), p. 267.
2A. C. Kruijt “ De weerwolf bij 4 Rev. F. T. Cole, “ Santal Ideas
de Toradja’s van Midden-Celebes ” , of the Future Life ” , Indian Anti-
Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, quary, vii. (1878) p. 274.
L E C T U R E IV
LECTURE IV
In the last lecture I dealt with some of the devices
to which primitive man resorts for preventing the
dangerous spirits of the dead from returning to
attack the living. I illustrated the barrier of fire
which he seeks to interpose between himself and the
ghosts. Further I described some of the other very-
different ways in which he attempts to achieve the
same object by tying up or mutilating the corpse, in
the belief that by so doing he disables the ghost
from doing any harm to the survivors. I propose
now to illustrate this custom further by examples
drawn from Africa, America and Europe.
In Africa, among the natives of the Gabun
district of West Africa, “ people who while they were
living were supposed to have witch power are
believed to be able to rise in altered form from their
graves. To prevent one who is thus suspected from
making trouble, survivors open the grave, cut off the
head, and throw it into the sea,— or in the interior,
where there is no great body of water it is burned ;
then a decoction of the bolondo bark is put into the
grave. (The bolondo is a poison ; even a little of
it may be fatal.) ” 1 Thus these natives appear to
1 R. H. Nassau, Fetichism in West Africa (London, 1904), p, 220.
' 75
76 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
think that if decapitation should fail to disable the
ghost poison will have the desired effect. An old
writer of the eighteenth century has described these
West African practices in more detail. He tells us
that when a case of sickness was ascribed to the
action of the malignant ghost of a man who had
lately died, they used to dig up the body and cut
off the head, from which they asserted that blood
flowed : this blood they collected and made out of it
plasters which they applied to the body of the sick
man and mixed with his food, and drink, assuring
him of a speedy recovery, since the dead man,
having had his head cut off, had no longer strength
to come and disturb him. But the case was deemed
much more difficult when the man whose spirit was
tormenting the patient had not been buried, because
he had been killed and eaten by his enemies or by
wild beasts. In that case the medicine-man spread
nets round the house of the sick man and even into
the forest, in order that the soul of the dead man
might be caught in the net when he came to annoy
the sufferer. When a bird, rat, lizard, ape or other
animal was caught in the net it was taken to be the
incarnation of the dead man’s soul. The medicine­
man took it to the sick man and said: “ Rejoice ;
we’ve got him ; he shan’t escape ” . But before he
killed the animal he demanded another fee. When
this was agreed to he killed the animal, to the sick
man’s joy. But to prevent the soul returning the
animal must be ground to powder and swallowed by
the sick man. When the man had swallowed it,
LECTURE IV 77
digested it and voided it they thought that he was
finally rid of the tormenting ghost.1 The Mossi of
the Western Sudan have a great respect for their
chiefs during their life but treat their bodies with
something less than respect after their death. As
soon as a chief has died they pierce his hands and
feet with large thorns to prevent his ghost from
returning to catch and carry off one of his relatives,
for they think that if he attempted to seize somebody
the thorns would hurt him so grievously that he
would at once relinquish his intended prey. The
corpse is then thrown into a ditch.2 The Ba-
Ila-speaking people of Northern Rhodesia regard
with great contempt any man who dies childless.
When such a one dies “ they cut off his little finger
and little toe, and enclose a piece of charcoal in his
fist, before burying him. Their reason for doing
this is obscure. They suppose that it will either
prevent his being reborn, or if it fails to that extent,
at least they will be able to recognize him by the
absence of those members should he return to earth.” 3
Among the Wawanga of the Mount Elgon district
in Kenya, when a case of illness is attributed to the
action of a malignant ghost, they will sometimes dig
up the body of the suspected man and burn the bones
over a nest of red ants, and the ashes are swept into
a basket and thrown into a river. But sometimes
instead of digging up the body the relatives of the
1 J. B. Labat, Relation his- Anthropos, ix. (1914) p. 732.
torique de Vft ihiopie Occidentale 3 E, W, Smith and A. M. Dale,
(Paris, 1732), ii. pp. 209-212. The Ila-Speaking Peoples of North-
2 P. E. Mangin, “ Les M ossi” , ern Rhodesia, ii. (London, 1920) p. i,
78 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
sick man drive a stake into the head of the grave,
and, to make assurance doubly sure, pouf boiling
water down after it.1 This is no doubt thought to
give a final quietus to the ghost who is causing the
illness. Among the Ovambo of South-West Africa,
the souls of dead magicians are especially dreaded.
Hence, when a magician dies it is customary to
dismember the body and to cut the tongue out of the
mouth. They think that if these precautions are
adopted the soul of the dead man cannot become a
dangerous ghost; the mutilation of the body has
practically disarmed his spirit.2
The custom of decapitating a corpse in order to dis­
able the dangerous ghost which we have seen practised
in Australia and Africa, is observed also by the
Armenians. They not only cut offthe head but smash
it or stick a needle into it or into the dead man’sheart.3
In America, among the Eskimo about Bering
Strait, when a man of evil reputation died they used
to cut the sinews of his arms and legs to prevent his
ghost from returning to the body and causing it to
walk about at night as a ghoul.4 The Rev. J. Owen
Dorsey, our highest authority on the Omahas, was
told by these Indians that “ when a man was killed
by lightning, he ought to be buried face downwards
and the soles of his feet had to be slit. When this
1 Hon. K. R. Dundas, “ The
Wawanga and Other Tribes of the
Elgon District of British East
Africa” , Journal of the Royal
AnthropologicalInstitute, xliii. (19x3)
p. 38-
2 Herman Tonjes, Ovamboland,
Land, Leute, Mission (Berlin, 1911),
pp. 193-197*
s M. Abeghian, JDer armenische
Volksglaube (Leipsic, 1899), P* n .
4 E. W. Nelson, “ The Eskimo
about Bering Strait ” , 18th Annual
Report of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, 1896-97 (1899), p. 423.
LECTURE IV 79
was done, the spirit went at once to the spirit land,
without giving further trouble to the living. In one
case (that of a Wejinecte man, Jadegi, according to
George Miller and Frank La Fleche) this was not
done, so it was said that the ghost walked, and he did
not rest in peace till another person (his brother) was
slain by lightning and laid beside him.” 1
The Lengua Indians of the Paraguaian Chaco
inflict on the bodies of the dead or dying certain
strange mutilations, the exact object of which is not
clear, though some of them appear certainly to be
directed not so much against the ghost of the
deceased as against the sorcerer who is suspected
of having caused the death. These mutilations
are described as follows by the Rev. W. Grubb,
our best authority on these Indians. “ In some
cases the only peculiar rite is the placing of hot
embers beneath the feet of the corpse and on the
head. If, however, the seat of trouble has been in
the head, after the body has been placed in the grave
they batter the skull with clubs ; if in the region of
the heart, arrows are shot into it, and sometimes a
stake is driven through the shoulder and slanting
out below the ribs, thus pinning the body to the side
of the grave. In the case of dropsy, the body is shot
at, and a bunch of herbs is held by the man con­
ducting the burial. This is afterwards burnt, and
each of the party swallows some of the smoke. The
meaning of these and many more rites which are
1 J. O- Dorsey, “ A Study of of the Bureau of American Ethno-
Siouan Cults ” , n th Annual Report logy, 1889-90 (1894), p. 420.
8o THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
used I do not fully understand, and I have had
opportunities of witnessing only some of them. A
very common rite, however, is the cutting open of
the side, and the insertion into the wound thus made
of heated stones, an armadillo’s claw, some dog’s
bones, and occasionally red ants. The wound is
then'closed. In cases where haste is necessary, as it
always is if the funeral takes place towards sunset,
the sick person is not always dead when this opera­
tion is performed. In any case, to be efficacious, it
must be performed, if not before actual death,
certainly immediately afterwards, and before the
spirit is supposed to have left the vicinity of the
body. The stones are thought to have knowledge
communicated by the soul of the dying or dead
person, who, being freed from the limitations of the
body, is able to recognize more clearly the originator
of the trouble. They are supposed to ascend to the
Milky Way, and there remain until they find an
opportunity to descend on the author of the evil
in the form of shooting stars. Consequently the
Indians are very frightened when they see a falling
star. They have all been guilty in their time, or are
supposed to have been guilty, of causing some evil
to others, and they are never sure when vengeance
in this form may be wreaked on them from some
distant quarter.” 1
On these mutilations it may be observed that they
are clearly intended to effect the soul of the dead or
1 W. B. Grubb, An Unknown People in an Unknown Land (London,
1911), pp. 162, 163.
LECTURE IV 81
dying man since they must be inflicted on his body
before the soul has quitted it. Apparently they are
intended to enable the ghost to avenge himself upon
the supposed author of his death rather than to
prevent him from injuring other people. So far
therefore they differ from most of the other mutila­
tions which we have passed in review, but in them
as in the other preceding cases is involved the funda­
mental fallacy of imagining that you can influence a
disembodied spirit by inflicting certain injuries on its
mortal remains. It is the old, the ever recurring
confusion of body and spirit.
In civilized Europe itself the custom of mangling
a dead body for the purpose of maiming and dis­
abling the dangerous ghost of the deceased has not
been unknown. Ancient Greek murderers used to
cut off the extremities, such as the ears and noses, of
their victims, fasten them on a string, and tie the
string round the necks and under the armpits of the
murdered man. One motive assigned for this
custom, and probably the original one, was the wish
to weaken him so that he, or rather his ghost, could
not take vengeance on his murderer. According to
one account (a Scholiast on Sophocles, Electro, 445)
the murderer fastened the extremities of his victim
about his own person, but the better attested and
more probable account is that he tied them about
the mutilated body of his victim.1 The practice is
1 Scholiast on Sophocles, Electro., lonius Rhodius, Argon, iv. 477; cf.
445; Suidas, s.v /xacr^aXicr^mt. E. Rohde, Psyche, i. 322-326. R. C-
Hesychius and Photius, Lexicon, s.v. Jebb, on Sophocles, Electro, 445,
/j.a<
rxo.\L
<
r/u
L
ara; Scholiast on Apol- with the Appendix, pp. 2n sqq.
82 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
perhaps illustrated by an original drawing in the
Ambrosian manuscript of the Iliad, which represents
the Homeric episode of Dolon; 1 in the drawing the
corpse of the slain Dolon is depicted shorn of its feet
and hands, which lie beside it, while Ulysses holds
Dolon’s severed head in his hand.2
“ ‘ The greatest marvel that I know ’, says
Walter Map, concerned a Welsh malefactor and un­
believer. He died in the house of William Laudun,
a brave soldier, who told the Bishop of Hereford
how the Welshman returned night by night, and
summoned his fellow-lodgers by name, when they
became ill and died in three days. Now only a few
survived. The Bishop thought that God might
haye given permission to the evil angel of the man
to make his dead body restless. He advised Laudun
to dig up the corpse, cut the neck, sprinkle the body
and grave with holy water, and rebury it. In spite
of this being done, the survivors were still assailed,
and finally Laudun himself was summoned. He
drew his sword and pursued the malefactor to the
grave and clave its head to the neck. The trouble
now ceased, and Laudun did not die as a result of
the summons.” 3
The medieval Danish historian Saxo Gram­
maticus has recorded how, when a pestilence was
raging, the misfortune was attributed to the angry
1 Iliads x. 3x4.
2 Annali delV Institute di Corres-
pondeza Archeologica (Rome, 1875),
tav. d* agg. R .; A. Baumeister,
Denkmaler des klassichen Alter-
turns, i. 460 sq.t Fig. 506.
3 J. A . MacCulloch, Medieval
Faith and Fable (London, 1932),
p. 90, referring to Walter Map,
ii. 27.
/
LECTURE IV 83
ghost of a man who had been killed in a popular
tumult shortly before. To remedy the evil they
dug up his body, cut off the head and ran a sharp
stake through the breast of the corpse. The remedy
proved effectual, for the plague ceased.1 In 1710
when a great pestilence was raging in East Prussia
the authorities gave orders that the graves should
be opened and the bodies dug up in order to detect
the malefactor whose ghost was causing the mischief.
Suspicion at last fell upon one, who seems to have
inflicted some wounds upon himself, so the corpse
was decapitated and the headless body thrown back
into the grave with a live dog to keep it company.
But strange to say, even after these strong measures
had been taken, the plague still continued.2
In Eastern Europe from Prussia on the north
to Macedonia and Greece on the south, the belief
in vampires has been and still is rampant. Vampires
are malicious ghosts who issue from their graves to
suck the blood of the living, and stringent measures
are deemed necessary to hinder or arrest this
horrible proceeding. In East Prussia when a person
is believed to be suffering from the attacks of a
vampire and suspicion falls on the ghost of some­
body who died lately, the only remedy is thought
to be for the family of the deceased to go to his
grave, dig up his body, behead it and place the head
between the legs of the corpse. If blood flows from
the severed head the man was certainly a vampire,
1 Saxo Grammaticus, Historia 2 M. Toeppen, Aberglauben aus
Danica, lib. I. ed. P. E. Muller Masuren (Danzig, 1867), p. 114.
(Havniae, 1836), i. p. 43.
84 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
and the family must drink of the flowing blood, thus
recovering the blood which had been sucked from
their living bodies by the vampire.1 Thus the
vampire is paid out in kind.
In Serbia and Bulgaria, to prevent a man from
becoming a vampire they stick a whitethorn into
the navel of his corpse, and burn off all the hair
on his body except on the head. Further, they slit
the soles of his feet and drive a nail into the back of
his head to prevent the skin from being blown up
by the devil.2 These measures are preventive, but
to put an end to a vampire his corpse is staked and
burned. The stake with which his body is pierced
should be of hawthorn. If a butterfly escapes from
the grave while the corpse is being stabbed the
people run after it, catch it and throw it on a fire.
That is the end of the vampire. But if the butterfly
escape, woe to the village, for the vampire will
avenge himself on the inhabitants till his seven
years are up. Some say the vampire should be
stabbed with a knife that has never been used to
cut bread. Some say the stab should be given
through the dried hide of a young bull, for they
believe that whoever is sprinkled with the blood of
a vampire will himself become a vampire and will
soon die. In the Drina district of Bosnia, on the
borders of Bosnia, the priest goes at the head of
the peasantry to the graveyard; they open the grave,
1 W. J. U . Tettau und J. D. H. * F. S. Krauss, “ Vampyre in
Temme, Die Volkssagen Ostpreus- sudslawischen Volksglauben ” , Glo-
senSf Litauens und Wesipreussens bus, lxi. (1892) p. 326.
(Berlin, 1835), p. 273.
LECTURE IV 85
fill it with straw ; stab the corpse through the straw
with a stake of hawthorn, and set fire to the straw.
The fire is kept up till the vampire is reduced to
ashes. That prevents his return to plague people.1
In Wallachia to prevent a man from becoming a
vampire they run a long nail through the skull of
the corpse, and lay a thorny rose bush on his body,
in the hope that should he struggle to emerge
from the grave the thorns will so entangle him in
his shroud that he will not be able to extricate him­
self from it and so will remain quietly in the grave.2
Among the Roumanians of Transylvania the custom
and belief concerning vampires are similar. They
think that there are two sorts of vampires, either
living or dead. The living vampire is generally the
illegitimate offspring of two illegitimate persons ;
but even a flawless pedigree will not ensure any one
against the intrusion of a vampire into the family
vault, since every one killed by a vampire becomes
likewise a vampire after death, and will continue to
suck the blood of other innocent persons until the
ghost has been exorcised by opening the grave and
either driving a stake through the corpse or else
firing a pistol shot into the coffin. To walk smoking
round the grave on each anniversary of the death,
is also supposed to be effective in confining the
vampire; this is clearly a mild form of the barrier
by fire. In very obstinate cases of vampirism it is
recommended to cut off the head and replace it in
1 F. S. Krauss, “ Sudslavische 2 Arthur und Albert Schott, Wal-
Schutzmittel gegen Vampyre ” , Glo- lachische Mahrchen (Stuttgart, 1845),
bus, lxii. (1892) p. 203 sg. p. 298.
86 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
the coffin with the mouth filled with garlic; or to
extract the heart and burn it, strewing the ashes
over the grave. Every Roumanian village has some
old woman versed in the modes of laying vampires.
Sometimes she drives a nail through the foreheacbef""
the deceased, or she rubs the body with the fat of
a pig which has been killed on the Feast of Ignatius,
five days before Christmas. It is also very usual
to place the thorny branch of a wild-rose bush across
the body to prevent it leaving the coffin.1
The belief in the blood-sucking ghost which we
call vampires is also widely spread amongst the
modern Greeks, who may possibly have borrowed it
from their northern neighbours the Slavs. To put
an end to the depredations of a vampire they dig up
the body of the suspected person, cut out the heart
and burn it over the corpse, or as an alternative they
burn it with the whole body.2 “ The accordance
between the Greek and Slavonic conceptions of the
vampire” , says Mr. G. F. Abbott, “ is nowhere
more apparent than in Macedonia, a province which
for many centuries past has been the meeting-point
of Slav and Hellene. It is believed that a dead
person turns into a vampire (ftpv/coXaictdZet), first, if
at the unearthing of the body the latter is found
undecayed and turned face downwards. In such an
emergency the relatives of the deceased have re­
course to a ceremony which fills the beholder with
sickening horror. I was credibly informed of a
1 E. Gerard, The Land beyond the 2 E. Schmidt, Das Volksleben der
Forest (Edinburgh and London, Neugriechen (Leipzig, 1871), p. 167.
1888), i. p. 13.
LECTURE IV 87
case of this description occurring not long ago at
Alistrati, one of the principal villages between Serres
and Drama. Someone was suspected of having
turned into a vampire. The corpse was taken out
of the grave, scalded with boiling oil, and was
pierced through the navel with a long nail. Then
the tomb was covered in, and millet was scattered
over it, that, if the vampire came out again, he
might waste his time in picking up the grains of
millet and be thus overtaken by dawn. For the
usual period of their wanderings is from about two
hours before midnight till the first crowing of the
morning cock.” 1
In some of the foregoing cases the treatment of
the body of a vampire appears to be intended not
merely to disable but to destroy the blood-sucking
ghost. There is other evidence pointing to the
conclusion that primitive man has clearly conceived
the possibility of actually killing a dangerous ghost
and so putting an end to it once and for all. From
his point of view this mode of dealing with the
spirit is clearly the most satisfactory of a ll; for the
ghost once dead can give no more trouble.
To take examples, the Mori-oris, the inhabitants
of the Chatham Islands off New Zealand, believed
that " after death, the spirit of the departed had
power to return to earth and haunt the living, and
that a person visited by the kiko-kiko (or evil spirit
of the dead), and touched on the head by it, would
die very soon after such visitation. To prevent the
1 G. F. Abbott, Macedonian Folklore (Cambridge,1903), pp. 218, 219,
V O L . II G
88 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
dead from troubling them, they had a curious
custom. As soon as breath had left the body, they
would all assemble at midnight in some secluded
spot, and proceed to kill the kiko-kiko. First,
kindling a large fire, they would sit round in a circle,
each person holding a long rod in his hand ; to the
end of each rod a tuft of spear grass was tied ; they
would then sway their bodies to and fro, waving the
rods over the fire in every direction, jabbering
strange and unintelligible incantations.” By this
means they appear to have imagined that they killed
the dangerous ghost.1
In the island of Mangaia, in the Central Pacific,
the ceremony of killing the ghosts used to be carried
out with great pomp in a series of mock battles which
have been described as follows by a missionary long
resident in the island. The ceremony, he tells us,
was called Ta ite mauri, or Ghost-Killing. “ Upon
the decease of an individual, a messenger (‘ bird ’, so
called from his swiftness) was sent round the island.
Upon reaching the boundary line of each district,
he paused to give the war-shout peculiar to these
people, adding ‘ So-and-so is dead \ Near relatives
would start off at once for the house of the deceased,
each carrying a present of native cloth. Most of the
athletic young men of the entire island on the day
following united in a series of mimic battles desig­
nated ‘ ta i te mauri ’, or slaying the ghosts. The
district where the corpse lay represented the ‘ mauri ’
1 W. T. L. Travers, “ Notes of the actions and Proceedings of the New
Traditions and Manners and Cus- Zealand Institute, ix. (1876) p.
toms of the Mori-oris ” , Trans- 26.
LECTURE IV 89
or ghosts. The young men belonging to it early in
the morning arrayed themselves as if for battle, and
well armed, started off for the adjoining district,
where the young men were drawn up in battle array
under the name of ‘ aka-oa ’, or friends. The war-
dance performed, the two parties rush together,
clashing their spears and wooden swords together in
right earnest. The sufferers in this bloodless conflict
were supposed to be malignant spirits, who would
thus be deterred from doing further mischief to
mortals. The combatants now coalesce, and are
collectively called ‘ mauri ’, or ghosts, and pass on
to the third district. Throughout the day their
leader carries the sacred ‘ iku kikau ’, or cocoa-nut
leaf, at the pit of his stomach like the dead. Arrived
at this third village, they find the young men ready
for the friendly conflict, and bearing the name of
‘ aka-oa’. ‘ The battle of the ghosts’ is again
fought, and now with swelling numbers they pass
on to the fourth, fifth and sixth districts. In every
case it was supposed that the ghosts were well
thrashed. Returning with a really imposing force
to the place where the corpse was laid out in state, a
feast was given to the brave ghost-killers, and all
save near relatives return to their various homes ere
nightfall. So similar was this to actual warfare, that
it was appropriately named ' e teina no te puruki ’,
i.e. ‘ a younger brother of war V ’1
In Fiji it was believed to be possible to kill a
1 W. W. Gill, Myths and Songs from the South Pacific (London, 1876),
pp. 268, 269.
90 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
troublesome ghost. Once it happened that many
chiefs feasted in the house of Tanoa, King of Ambau.
In the course of the evening one of them related how
he had slain a neighbouring chief. That very night,
having occasion to leave the house, he saw, as he
believed, the ghost of his victim, hurled his club at
him, and killed him stone dead. On his return to
the house he roused the king and the rest of the
inmates from their slumbers and recounted his
exploit. The matterwas deemed of high importance,
and they all sat on it in solemn conclave. Next
morning a search was made for the club on the scene
of the murder ; it was found and carried with great
pomp and parade to the nearest temple, where it was
laid up for a perpetual memorial. Everybody was
firmly persuaded that by this swashing blow the
ghost had been not only killed but annihilated.1
In Africa, as we have seen, the Herero believe
that they can kill a person’s ghost by breaking his
backbone after death.2 The Bura and Pabir tribes
of Northern Nigeria regard with great fear the ghost
of a man who has been killed by lightning and they
think that they can kill it. The ceremony of killing
it must be performed by the members of a certain
clan, the Lasama. Seven days after the burial the
men of the clan assemble at the dead man’s haunts
and there dance and toss up in the air a goat which,
as it falls, is caught on the sacred staves. Suddenly
one of the men espies the wicked soul, and catching it
1 Charles Wilkes, Narrative of the New Edition (New York, 1851), iii. 85.
United States Exploring Expedition^ 2 See above, p. 69.
LECTURE IV 9i
wraps it in grass and deposits it in the dead man’s
grave. A fee is paid to the men of the clan for
rendering this dangerous service by destroying the
dangerous ghost.1 Among the Banyankole of
Uganda sickness was sometimes attributed to the
action of a malignant ghost. In order to drive out
the obsessing ghost who had taken possession of the
sufferer’s body, a medicine-man made scratches on
the patient’s body and rubbed some pungent powder
into them, till the patient writhed with pain. Smart­
ing from the pain the ghost was now ready to quit
the sufferer, and to hasten his departure the medicine­
man rubbed the sick man’s body down with his
hands, pressing the ghost from his head out at his
feet and the tips of his fingers. When the ghost
sought to escape it was caught in a pot which was
placed ready to receive it, and the pot was thrown
either into fire or into water, thus either burning or
drowning the ghost. In either case there was an end
of the ghost.2 Similarly among the Banyoro of
Uganda, when a case of sickness was ascribed to the
influence of a ghost who had taken possession of a
patient’s body, a medicine-man used to lure the
ghost out of the body of the sufferer into a pot which
he had baited with savoury meat. When the ghost
thus tempted entered into the pot, the medicine-man
shut it up and carried it to waste land, where he
either burned it or threw it into running water, thus
1 C. K. Meek, Tribal Studies in (Cambridge, 1923), p. 141 ; compare
Northern Nigeria (London, 1931), J. G. Frazer, The Fear of the Dead in
i. p. 169. Primitive Religion (London, 1933),
2 J. Roscoe, The Banyankole pp. 157-158.
92 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
burning or drowning the ghost.1 Again, amongst
the Baganda the “ evil-disposed ghost which attacks
people of its own accord, uninfluenced by some living
person, is usually thought to be the ghost of the aunt
on the male side. These ghosts are sometimes most
troublesome, causing the man’s wife or his children
constant sickness, and nothing will appease them.
In such a case the Mandwa (priest) has to capture
the ghost and destroy i t ; he comes to the house
bringing either a cow or buffalo horn into which he
puts a cowrie or snail shell with a seed of the wild
plantain ; this he places on the end of a long stick
and passes up the central post of the hut until he
reaches the top near the roof. The spirits always
take up their abode in the highest part of the conical­
shaped huts on the central pole. During the pro­
cess of capturing the spirit the house is kept in
darkness and only two or three people are permitted
to be present. When the Mandwa (priest) has got
the horn to the top of the pole he works it about until
the shells and seed make a squeaking noise ; this he
pronounces to be the voice of the ghost which has
entered the horn ; he then rapidly lowers the horn,
covers it with a bit of bark cloth and plunges it into
a pot of water ; the ghost thus secured is carried off
in triumph to the nearest river and plunged into i t ;
if there is no river near the priest secures the mouth
of the pot, and carries it off into a place where there
is some unreclaimed land where he deposits it, and
1 J. Roscoe, The Bakitara or of the Dead in Primitive Religion}
Banyoro (Cambridge, 1923), pp. 286 pp. 159-161.
sq.; compare J. G. Frazer, The Fear
LECTURE IV 93
leaves it to be destroyed by the next grass fire.” 1
Thus if the ghost escapes death by drowning he is
sure to perish in the end by fire. Among the Bavenda
of the Northern Transvaal a diviner will sometimes
declare that the death of a member of a tribe has
been caused by the wicked ghost of an ancestral
spirit who must therefore be destroyed in order to
protect his descendants against his further attacks.
In order to effect this destruction the spear of the
wicked spirit is tied round the neck of a black go a t;
a heavy stone is attached to it, and the goat with the
spear and the stone is thrown into a deep pool. With
the goat the ancestral spirit is believed to be thrown
into the water and drowned, thus ridding his descend­
ants of any danger from him for ever.2 Speaking
of West African negroes in general, Miss Mary
Kingsley observes: "Destroying the body by
breaking up or cutting up is a widely diffused custom
in West Africa in the case of dangerous souls, and is
universally followed with those that have contained
wanderer-souls, i.e. those souls which keep on turn­
ing up in the successive infants of a family. A child
dies, then another child comes to the same father or
mother and that dies, after giving the usual trouble
and expense. A third arrives, and if that dies, the
worm— I mean the father— turns, and if he is still
desirous of more children he just breaks one of the
legs of the body before throwing it in the bush. This
1 J. Roscoe, “ Further Notes on (1902) p. 43.
the Manners and Customs of the
Baganda” , Journal of the Royal 2 H. A. Stayt, The Bavenda
Anthropological Institute, xxxii. (Oxford, 1931), p. 252.
94 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
he thinks will act as a warning to the wanderer-soul
and give it to understand that if it will persist in
coming into his family, it must settle down there and
give up its flighty ways. If a fourth child arrives in
the family, and if it dies, the justly irritated parent
cuts its body up carefully into very small pieces, and
scatters them, doing away with the soul altogether.” 1
Thus the total destruction of a child’s body is be­
lieved to involve the total destruction of its soul.
1 Mary H. Kingsley, Travels in West Africa (London, 1897), p. 480.
L E C T U R E V
LECTURE V
In the last lecture I dealt with some of the means
which primitive man employs to prevent the spirits
of the dead from coming back to trouble and plague
the living. In particular I described some of the
mutilations which he inflicts on a corpse in the
belief that he thereby maims and disables the ghost
in like manner. Later, I showed that going still
further he imagines that he can not only disable the
ghost but kill it and annihilate it. But apart from
these strong measures he resorts to a great variety
of less severe devices to effect the same object. I
propose now to illustrate some of these devices by
a series of miscellaneous examples. They display
on the part of primitive man an ingenuity and re­
sourcefulness which might, perhaps, have been
turned to better account in a better cause; at
least they serve to set in a strong light that obsess­
ing fear of the spirits of the dead which has
played an enormous part in the history of human­
ity.
Thus, for example, among the natives of Halma-
hera or Gilolo, a large island to the west of New
Guinea, when any one dies, the members of his
97
98 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
household must change their names ; else the dead
man knows their names and calls them, to keep him
company in the grave; so that they die. When
any one dies and his eyes remain wide open, they
say that he is looking round for a companion ;
hence, some one else will die soon. So they are
always careful to weight the eyelids of a corpse,
generally with a rijksdollar, in order to keep them
shut. When a corpse is buried, the stem of a banana-
tree must be buried with it to keep it company, in'
order that the dead person may not seek a com­
panion among the living. Hence, when the coffin
is lowered into the ground, one of the bystanders
steps up and throws a young banana-tree into the
grave saying : “ Friend, you must miss your com­
panions of this earth ; here, take this as a comrade ” .
When any one dies and his coffin is made, they must
take the measure of the corpse and make the coffin
fit it exactly; otherwise, they say (if there is room
and to spare in the coffin) some one else will soon
die. For the same reason the grave must fit the
coffin exactly. A grave must not be dug in a place
all by itself, else the dead person buried in it will
seek to have a companion. (Graves are dug behind
the house, and generally there are old graves there
already.) When a mother has a child that dies
young she must wear the slendang, or cloth in which
the child is carried, continually for more than a
month ; otherwise she will have another loss. When
a man who was a werewolf dies, it is necessary to
strew lime on his eyes and to cover his head with a
LECTURE V 99
pan ; for then, they say, his eyes are dim and he
cannot see to come and visit the survivors with sick­
ness or death. When some woman dies and they
say that she was a pontianak (evil spirit), they stick
needles under all her nails, and under her armpits
they place two hen’s eggs : this, they say, is a play­
thing for her child and therefore she will not spread
out her arms to fly about else she would lose the
eggs; and the reason for sticking needles under
her nails is that she may not go about as a pontianak,
for her nails will be sore and thus she will not be
able to seize with them.1
In the Island of Nias, to the west of Sumatra,
at a burial “ when they have come to the grave,
whither they have proceeded with loud lamentations,
the nearest relatives, and not least the women, behave
as if they were frantic. When the coffin is lowered
into the grave, they make as if they would leap into
the grave, stab themselves, and so forth, customs
which have their ground in the fear of the ghost of
the deceased; for by so doing they make it clear
to him that his death is mourned, in order that his
spirit may not, out of revenge, bring misfortune on
the surviving relatives. For these reasons, before
they go to the grave, the dead man’s golden orna­
ments are shown to him in order that he may take
the shadow of them with him to the land of souls ;
and from the same consideration some gold is placed
1 M. J. van Baarda, “ Fabelen, M. J. van Baarda, Bijdragen tot de
Verhalen en Overleveringen der TaaU Land- on Volkenkunde van
Gabelareezen ” , collected by H. van Nederlandsch-Indie, xlv. (1895) pp,
Dijken, published and translated by 538-541.
IOO THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
in the mouth of the corpse.1 In South Nias the
corpse is coffined outside of the village, in order
that the spirit of the dead may not find the way
back to the village to fetch somebody there. For
this reason there is, also in North Nias, no regular
path to the cemeteries, but on each occasion of a
burial a path is cleared to the cemetery.2 Clearly
these people count upon the inability of the ghost to
find his way back to the house by a new and un­
familiar path through the forest.
Among the Papuans of Geelvink Bay in Dutch
New Guinea, it is a rule that while a burial is pro­
ceeding no noise may be made and no work done in
the village, for any noise would excite the anger of
the ghost, and he would take his revenge on the
survivors who show so little regard for his feelings.
And after the burial is completed they fasten leaves
and branches to the houses and trees as scarecrows
to frighten away the ghost, if he should venture to
return.3 The Kiwai of British New Guinea always
carry a dead body to the grave head foremost,
because they believe that if they carried it in the
reverse position the ghost would return to the village.4
A contrary rule was observed in the neighbouring
island of Mabuiag to the south of New Guinea, for
there the corpse was always carried out to burial feet
foremost, else it was believed that the ghost would
1 Th. C. Rappard, “ Het eiland 3 J. B. van Hasselt, “ Die Noefore-
Nias en zijne bewoners ” , Bijdragen zen ” , Zeitschrift fu r Ethnologic,
tot de Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde viii. (1876) pp. 188-189.
van Nederlandsck-Indie, lxii. (1909) 4 G. Landtman, The Kiwai
p. 571. Papuans of British New Guinea
2 Th. C. Rappard, op. cit. p. 573. (London, 1927), p. 257.
LECTURE V ioi
return and trouble the survivors. As a further
precaution to prevent his wandering the thumbs and
great toes of the corpse were tied together.1 The
same rule of carrying out a corpse feet foremost to
prevent the return of the ghost has been observed by
other peoples, as we shall see presently. In the
Society Islands of the Pacific, after an elaborate
ceremony for the burial of the sins of the deceased,
a priest used to step up to the side of the corpse, and
taking some small slips of plantain leaf-stalk he fixed
two or three of them under each arm, placed a few
on the breast, and then, addressing the dead body,
said : “ There are your family, there is your child,
there is your wife, there is your father, and there is
your mother. Be satisfied yonder (that is, in the
world of spirits). Look not towards those who are
left in this world.” This concluding ceremony was
designed to impart contentment to the deceased, and
to prevent his spirit from repairing to the places of
his former resort, and so distressing the survivors.2
Among the Subanos of Mindanao, when men
return home after a burial they thrust their chop­
ping knives deeply into the rungs of the house ladder,
doubtless to prevent the ghost from returning and
climbing up the ladder into the house.3
1 A. C. Haddon, “ Funeral Cere­
monies ” , Reports of the Cambridge
Anthropological Expedition to the
Torres Straits, v. (Cambridge,
1904) p. 248; id.} “ The Secular
and Ceremonial Dances of Torres
Straits ” , Internationales Archiv
fu r Ethnographie, vi. (1893) p. 152.
2 W. Ellis, j
Polynesian Researches
(London, 1836), Second Edition, i.
pp. 401-403.
3 F. Blumentritt, “ Neue Nach-
richten iiber die Subanon (Insel
Mindanao) (nach P. Francisco
Sanchez) ” , Zeitschrift der Gesell-
schaft fiir Erdkunde zu Berlin,
xxxi. (1896) p. 371.
102 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
The dwarf tribes of the Malay Peninsula, the
Semang, the Orang Utan and the Kenta, shift their
camp immediately after a death, often removing to
a great distance, because they fear that the ghost
might attack and kill them. They are careful to
place a river between them and the old camp,
believing apparently that the ghost cannot cross
water.1 This is obviously a case of the water
barrier with which we are already familiar.
In Siam a corpse is sometimes placed in the
coffin face downwards, in order that the ghost may
not find its way back to the house ; and for the
purpose of rendering his return to the old home still
more difficult, the coffin is carried out of the house
not by the door but through an opening specially
made in the wall. As if this were not enough to
baffle the ghost the coffin is carried by the bearers at
a run several times round the house, till the ghost
may be presumed to be giddy and quite unable to
retrace his steps to the familiar dwelling.2 A
similar mode of baffling the ghost and preventing his
return to the house is practised by the Shans of
Burma. They greatly dread the ghost of a woman
who has died in child-bed and take great pains to
prevent it from returning, in the form of a malignant
spirit, to attack her husband and torment him.
Hence, when the bodies of the dead mother and
child are being removed from the house part of the
1 Paul Schebesta, Among the Yellow Robe (Westminster, 1898),
Forest Dwarfs of Malaya (London, p. 246 ; Mgr. Pallegoix, Description
n.d.), pp. 106, 143, 236. du royaume Thai ou Siam (Paris,
2 E. Young, The Kingdom of the 1854), p. 245.
LECTURE V 103
mat wall in the side of the house is taken down, and
the dead woman and her baby are lowered to the
ground through the aperture. The hole through
which the bodies have passed is immediately filled
with new mats, so that the ghost may not know how
to return.1 The Palaungs, another tribe of Burma,
entertain a similar dread of the ghost of the woman
dying in childbirth and adopt a similar precaution
to prevent her spirit from returning. The body is
lowered through a hole in the floor of the room in
which she died, then the floor is washed and the hole
is closed with new boards. This, they hope, will
prevent the return of the spirits of the unfortunate
mother and child, to Palaungs, the most terrifying
of unhappy spirits.2 This mode of preventing a
ghost from returning to the house by carrying out his
corpse through a special opening which is afterwards
immediately closed, is by no means peculiar to
Burma and Siam ; it has been practised by many
other peoples in many other parts of the world.
Elsewhere I have collected the evidence for its
diffusion, but I cannot linger over it now.3 Among
the Kakhyen of Upper Burma, mourners returning
from the grave strew ground rice along the path and
cleanse their legs and arms with fresh leaves.
Before re-entering the house they are purified with
water by the medicine-man with a sprinkler of grass,
1 Mrs. Leslie Milne, Shans at pp. 304, 305.
Home (London, 1910), p. 96. 3 J. G. Frazer, Garnered Sheaves
(London, 1931), p. IO sqq>; J. G.
2 Mrs. Leslie Milne, The Home Frazer, Belief in Immortality
of an Eastern Clan (Oxford, 1924), (London, 1913), i. pp. 452 sqq.
V O L . II H
104 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
and step over a bundle of grass sprinkled with the
blood of a fowl sacrificed during their absence to the
spirit of the dead. A few days later the ghost of
the deceased, who is supposed to be still lingering
about his old home, is finally expelled from the house
by a great dance.1
Among the tribes in the Aracan Mountains in
Burma, if a woman who has had children gives birth
to a still-born infant a piece of iron is placed in the
cradle-coffin, a relation saying: “ Return not into the
womb of thy mother until this iron is soft as cotton ” .2
Among the Karens of Burma, when a funeral
party is returning from the grave, “ each person
provides himself with little hooks made of branches
of trees, and calling his spirit to follow him, at short
intervals, as he returns, he makes a motion as if
hooking it, and then thrusts the hook into the ground.
This is done to prevent the spirit of the living from
staying behind with the spirit of the dead.” 3
In Chittagong, a district of North-Eastern India,
when a funeral is taking place a man follows the
body, pouring out water behind it all the way from
the house to the boundaries ; this is clearly another
case of the water barrier. Formerly, when the
corpse had been carried out of the house, they used
to drive a nail into the threshold to prevent the ghost
from returning and entering the dwelling.4
1 J. A. Anderson, Mandalay to
Momien (London, 1876), p. 144 ;
of. p. 77-
2 The British Burma Gazetteer,
i. (Rangoon, 1879-1880) p. 387.
3 F. Mason, “ Physical Char­
acters, etc., of the Karens Journal
of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,
Part'll. No. 1 (1866), p. 28.
4 Th. Berangier, “ Les fun^railles
k Chittagong ” , Les Missions Catho-
liquesi 'sl\\\. (1881) pp. 503, 504.
c
*
K
j
'f ^
't*
V
*
n
$
£
tA
LECTURE V
*
fO
Primitive man fears the spirits of the dead not
only while he is awake but while he is asleep, for in
sleep he may dream of a ghost, and to his thinking
a dream is as real as a waking reality. Hence he
deems it very dangerous to dream of the ghost of
a dead man on the night after his burial; for he
fancies that the ghost has come in person to disturb
him and perhaps to carry off another soul from the
house. To avoid these dangers the Lakhers of
Assam take elaborate precautions. After a burial
when the dead man’s relations return home and are
about to enter the house, they step on to a sieve con­
taining a little rice, which has been placed ready for
the purpose, and go on into the house. This is to
show that the soul of the dead has gone to A thikhi,
the spirit-land, and that his relations are again clean,
rice being an emblem of purity. That evening the
mother’s brother’s wife brings a fowl and some
sahmahei (fermented rice), and sacrifices the fowl to
console the souls of the surviving members of the
deceased’s family, and anoints the big toe of each
with the fowl’s blood ; she then gives each of them a
little fermented rice and returns home. This is an
important sacrifice, for it is essential that the souls of
the deceased’s family should be at peace; because
if any member of it sees any one in his dreams on the
night of the funeral, the person dreamed of will soon
die also. The belief is that on the night of the
funeral the spirit of the deceased comes to visit his
family, and if they are dreaming of any one, the
deceased’s spirit meets the spirit of the person
*
<S W ?
*
■
io6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
dreamed of and seizes it and carries it off with him
to Athikhi. On the morning after the funeral one
.of the neighbours always asks the deceased’s relatives
whether they had any dreams during the night or
not; if the answer is “ No ” , all is well, but if one
of the family dreamt of any one that night he must
say so, as it is very unlucky for the person dreamed
of. If the dream was that the dead man appeared
again alive in the house, it means that another
member of the family will die. A further precaution
is often taken to prevent the deceased’s relations or
other villagers from dreaming on the night of the
funeral. Each householder, before going to sleep,
puts a little cooked rice in a pot, and each member
of the household says, “ May my spirit not wander
about to-night, let it remain within this pot ” ;
having said this, each person puts his hand inside
the pot and touches the rice. By this means the
spirits are kept imprisoned inside the pots, and as
they cannot wander about and meet other people’s
spirits, the owners of the imprisoned spirits do not
dream of any one that night, and so cause no one
any harm. Another way of preventing the soul
from escaping from its owner’s house is to place a
paddy pestle across the door, as the soul will fear to
go under it, lest the pestle should fall on it.1 We
have already seen that these people sometimes place
a paddy pestle at the door of a house to prevent the
ghost from entering ; we now see that they also
place a paddy pestle at the door to prevent their
1 N. E. Parry, The Lakhers (London, 1932), pp. 402, 403,
LECTURE V 107
own souls from going out. Clearly the pestle is
regarded as an effectual barrier against the passage
of a spirit in either direction.
Among the Kawar, a primitive tribe of the
Central Provinces in India, after the funeral the
mourners bathe and return home walking one behind
the other in Indian file. When they come to a cross­
road the foremost man picks up a pebble with his
left foot, and it is passed from hand to hand down
the line of men until the hindmost throws it away.
This is thought to sever their connexion with the
spirit of the deceased and prevent it from following
them home.1 Among the Korku, a Munda people
of the Central Provinces of India, “ in order to lay
to rest the spirit of a dead person, who it is feared
may trouble the living, five pieces of bamboo are
taken as representing the bones of the dead man,
and these with five crab’s legs, five grains of rice
and other articles, are put into a basket and thrust
into a crab's hole under water. The occasion is
made an excuse for much feasting and drinking, and
the son or other representative who lays the spirit
works himself up into a state of drunken excitement
before he enters the water to search for a suitable
hole.” 2 Among the Pabia, a small caste in the
Bilaspur District of India, “ when any one dies in a
family, all the members, as soon as the breath leaves
his body, go into another room of the house; and
across the door they lay a net opened into the room
1 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and India (London, 1916), iii. p. 397.
Cosies of the Central Provinces of 2 R. V, Russell, op. cit. iii. p. 564.
ioB THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
where the corpse lies. They think that the spirit of
the dead man will follow them, and will be caught
in the net. Then the net is carried away and burnt
or buried with the corpse, and thus they think that
the spirit is removed and prevented from remaining
about the house and troubling the survivors.” 1 In
the Punjab the ghosts of sweepers are thought to be
malevolent and are much dreaded ; and their bodies
are therefore always buried or burnt face downwards
to prevent their spirits from escaping. Riots have
taken place, and the magistrates have been appealed
to, in order to prevent a sweeper being buried face
upwards.2
The Koryak, a primitive people in the extreme
north-eastern corner of Asia, appear to regard the
spirits of the dead as hostile to the living from the
moment that their bodies have been removed from
the house. They burn their dead. A t the crema­
tion of the body of a girl, her grandfather “ took
a pole and thrusting it into the body said, ‘ O f
yonder magpie pricked ’ . . . or, in a free translation,
‘ This is the magpie of the underworld which
pricked He imitated the actions of the magpie of
the world of the dead, in order to inform the deceased
that she was passing to another world, and must not
return to the house. The further actions of the dead
girl’s grandfather had the same end in view. When
the flames of the pyre were dying away, he broke
1 R. V, Russell, op. cit. i. p. 395. (Westminster, 1896), i. p. 269, re-
2 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. p. 221 ; ferring to Ibbetson, Punjab Ethno-
W. Crooke, The Popular Religion graphy, p, 117,
and Folk-Lore oj Northern India
LECTURE V 109
some twigs from the alder and willow bushes that
were growing near-by, and strewed them around the
pyre. These twigs represented a dense forest that
was supposed to surround the burning-place. We
left the place while the pyre was still burning.
Before leaving the grandfather went round the pyre,
first from right to left and then from left to right, in
order to so obscure his tracks that the deceased
would not be able to follow him. Then stepping
away from the pyre toward the houses, he drew a
line with his stick on the snow, jumped across it and
shook himself. The others followed his example.
The line was supposed to represent a river which
separated the village from the burning-place.” 1
The line on the snow was clearly regarded as repre­
senting a water barrier which divided the living
from the dead.
In the Bari tribe of the Nilotic Sudan “ the body
of the rain-maker is submitted to special treatment
as soon after death as possible, all the orifices of the
body being plugged, lest his spirit should escape by
one of these and bring sickness or, becoming a lion
or leopard, constitute a danger to the people. The
corpse is then ruddled with the usual ochre mixture.
As a comment on this, Mr. Whitehead sends the
following very interesting account, which further
indicates the importance of the process as enabling
the new rain-maker to control the spirits of his
rain-making ancestors : ' When the rain-maker is
1 The Jesup North Pacific E x - York), vi. The Koryak, Religion
pediiion (.Memoir of the American and Myths, by W. Jochelson (Ley-
Museum of Natural History, New den and New York, 1905), p. 112.
no THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
dead, he is plugged, his ears are plugged, his nose
is plugged, his eye is plugged, his mouth is plugged,
he is plugged, his fingers are plugged. And then
he is buried. It is done so that . . . the spirits may
not go out, so that the son may manage the father
so that he obeys (him), so that the spirits obey the
son.’ ” 1 In the Bachama and Mbula tribes of
Northern Nigeria, a new king undergoes a period of
seclusion for fifteen days ; he then takes possession
of the palace by stepping over a cow killed at the
threshold. Two explanations of this rite are given :
(i) that in crossing over the body of the cow he left
behind him all conduct of a kind which would be
inconsistent with his new position ; and (2) that the
sacrifice of the cow at the threshold secured the
palace against invasion by the late chief’s ghost.2
Of these alternative explanations we cannot doubt
that the second is the true one; the first is too
vague and sentimental to be primitive. Among the
Wajagga of Mount Kilimanjaro, in East Africa,
when the body of a man is carried out to burial, the
son of the deceased places a bean in the left ear of
the corpse in order that the ghost may take no
further part in earthly life and may not come back
to plague the house. By way of further precaution,
a leaden ornament such as women wear in their ears
is attached to the ear of the corpse, as a symbol of
the peace which is henceforth to reign between the
1 C. G. Seligman. and Brenda Z. 2 C. K. Meek, Tribal Studies in
Seligman, Pagan Tribes of the Northern Nigeria (London, X
931),
Nilotic Sudan (London, 1932), i. p, 4.
p. 292.
LECTURE V hi
living and the dead.1 In the Tumbuka tribe of
Nyasaland a corpse was carried out of the hut not
by the door but by a special opening made in the
wall. All the dishes, pots, clothes and articles of
personal use belonging to the deceased were buried
with him. But no metal goods were buried,
whether hoes, or arrows, or brass ornaments, because
it was feared that these would give the ghost oppor­
tunity to return with anger to hurt the friends. The
nearest relatives then threw pounded cinders into the
grave, that they might not chatter in their sleep or
death come to them.2 The Bana of the Cameroons
of West Africa believe that the ghost even of a good
man is malignant; hence they take many pre­
cautions to prevent it from issuing from the grave,
and returning to cause sickness or death in the
family. The body is tied up, the eyes are bandaged
and it is carried out of the hut feet foremost, because
otherwise the ghost might know its way back to the
house. In the grave heavy logs are placed on the
body to keep it down, and the men brandish their
clubs threateningly at the ghost, disclaiming any
responsibility for the death.3 In the Niger Delta,
when a woman has died in giving birth to a child, it
used to be customary to kill the infant and bury it
with the dead mother ; but if they decided to keep
the child alive they performed a ceremony to prevent
1 B. Gutmann (Madschame), p. 133.
“ Trauer und Begrabnissitten der 2 D. Fraser, Winning a Primitive
Wadschagga” , lxxxix. (1906) People (London, 1914), p. 158.
p. 197; id.t Dichten und Denken 3 G, van Hagen, “ Die B ana” ,
der Dschagganeger (Leipsig, 1909), Baessler-Archiv> ii. (1912) p. 109.
X12 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
the mother’s ghost from returning to fetch away her
child. A piece of a plantain stem (that portion
which has the fruit clustered round it) was procured
and forced into the womb of the dead mother. This
according to native ideas prevents her spirit coming
back to fetch the child, and the mother thinks she
has the child with her. This account has been
confirmed by an English lady who was present on
two occasions when this ceremony was being
performed.1
In Southern Nigeria, where the belief in the
rebirth of the dead is prevalent, dead children are
usually buried lying on their side as in sleep. But
if for any reason it is deemed undesirable that its
soul should be born again the little body is buried
face downward, to prevent the return of its soul.
Grown men, on the other hand, are buried face
upwards in order that they may see straight before
them and find their way back again to earth.2 In
the Ho tribe of Togoland in West Africa, on the
fourth day after the burial of a woman or the fifth
day after the burial of a man, a relative goes to the
grave and sprinkles water on it for the purpose of
quietening the spirit of the dead and preventing it
from returning to cause another death.3
Among the Eskimo of Alaska, near St. Michael,
when a shaman died no one did any work for three
1 Le Comte C. N. de Cardi, 2 P. Amaury Talbot, Life in
“ Ju-Ju Laws and Customs in Southern Nigeria (London, 1923),
the Niger D elta” , Journal of pp. 144-145.
the Anthropological Institute, xxix. 3 J. Spieth, Die Ewe Stamme
(1S99) P- (Berlin, 1906), p. 704.
LECTURE V 113
days afterwards. The following night, when the
people prepared to retire, each man in the village
took his urine-tub and poured a little of its contents
before the door, saying, “ This water is our water;
drink ”— believing that should the ghost return
during the night and try to enter, it would taste this
water, and, finding it bad, would go away.1 Among
the Skungen Indians of Vancouver Island, as soon
as a death has taken place the body is immediately
taken out of the house by an opening in the wall
from which the boards have been removed, because
it is believed that the ghost would kill every one if
the body were to stay in the house. The implements
of the deceased are deposited close to the body, else
his ghost would come and get them. Sometimes
even his house is broken down.2 The Dene-Dindjie
Indians of North-West America surround the tombs
of the dead with long poles to which ribands of
different colours are fastened. The intention is to
amuse the soul of the deceased and thus keep it
beside the corpse.3
Among the Araucanians of Chili when a corpse is
being carried out to a place of burial a woman walks
behind it, strewing ashes on the path to prevent the
spirit of the dead from returning to its late abode.4
1 E. W. Nelson, “ The Eskimo
about Bering Strait ” , 18th Annual
Report of the Bureau of American
Ethnology (1896-97) (1899), p. 312.
2 Sixth Report on the North-
Western Tribes of Canada (Report
of the British Association for l8go}
separate reprint), Second General
Report on the Indians of British
Columbia, by Dr. Fr. Boas.
3 E. Petitot, Monographic des
Dene-Dindjies (Paris, 1876), p. 47.
4 J. Ignatius Molina, The Geo­
graphical, Natural and Civil His­
tory of Chili, translated from the
original Italian (London, 1809), ii-
p. 91.
With regard to the Pehhuenches, an Indian tribe of
Chili, speaking an Araucanian dialect, we are told
that they greatly fear the spirits of the dead, and the
nearer the relation of the survivor to the deceased
the greater is his fear of the ghost. To prevent a
ghost from returning they carry the corpse out of
the tent feet foremost, for if they carried it out in any
other posture they believe that the ghost will return.
Further, when they are shifting camp, abandoning a
site where they have tarried for some time and where
several of their number have died and been buried,
they take elaborate precautions to obscure their
tracks by crossing them in various directions for the
purpose of baffling the pursuit of the ghosts who
might be following their comrades to their new
home.1 Among the Lengua Indians of the Para-
guaian Chaco a witch-doctor had been persuaded by
the missionary to build a superior hut with a small
opening for a door. But after an old man had died
and been buried the witch-doctor’s wife and family
made very considerable alterations in the hut; in
particular they blocked up the little door of the new
hut, making it appear like a part of the wall, and
opened a small gap on the opposite side instead.
The reason for this alteration was explained to the
missionary by the wizard himself. He said that this
was done on purpose to puzzle the ghost. He, while
in the body, knew the house well, but the alterations
were so considerable that it was supposed his ghost
1 E. Poeppig, Reise in Chile, strome wdhrendderJahre182J~l832
Peru und auf dem Amazonen- (Leipsig, 1835-1836), i. p. 393.
114 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
LECTURE V ii5
would not recognize it and would be particularly-
nonplussed when it made for the entrance to find it
a solid wall.12 The Indians of Brazil, in the neigh­
bourhood of Rio de Janeiro, used greatly to fear lest
the spirit of the dead should return and do them
harm. To prevent the return of a dead man’s ghost
they rolled up his body and tied it tightly ; but lest
he, or rather his ghost, should undo the fastenings and
come back to haunt them they adopted the further
precaution of confining the corpse in a great earthen­
ware jar, battened down with an earthenware lid.8
In civilized Europe itself, if, in spite of all pre­
cautions, the ghost should make his way back from
the grave, steps were taken to barricade the house
against him. Thus, in some parts of Russia and
East Prussia an axe or a lock is laid on the threshold,
or a knife is hung over the door,3and in Germany as
soon as the coffin is carried out of the house all the
doors and windows are shut, whereas so long as the
body is still in the house, or at least immediately after
the death, the windows (and sometimes the doors)
are left open for the soul to escape.4
*
* In the
1 W. B. Grubb, A n Unknown
People in an Unknown Land (Lon­
don, 1911), pp. 165, 166.
2 A. Thevet, La Cosmographie
Universelle (Paris, 1575), ii. p. 959.
3 W. Ralston, Songs of the
Russian People (London, 1872), p.
318; A. Wuttke, jDer deutsche
Volksaberglaube (Berlin, 1869), §§
736, 766 ; M. Toppen, Aberglauben
aus Masuren (Danzig, 1867), p. 108.
4 C. L. Rochholz, Deutsche Glaube
undBrauch (Berlin, 1867), i. p. 171 ;
A. Schleicher, Volkstumliches aus
Sonnenberg (Weimar, 1858), p. 152 ;
W. Sonntag, Tddtenbestattung, p.
169 (Halle, 1878); A. Wuttke, op.
cii. §§ 725, .737; A. Gubernatis,
Storia comparata degli usifunebri in
Italia e pressi gli altri popoli Indo-
Europeii p. 47; G. Lammert,
Volksmedizin und medizinischer
Aberglaube aus Bayern (Wurzburg,
1869), pp. 103,105,106; F. Schmidt,
Sitten und Gebrauche, pp. 85, 92;
L. Strackerjan, Aberglaube und
Sagen aus dem Herzogthum Olden-
burg (Oldenburg, 1867), ii. p. 129;
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Hebridean Islands of Mull and Tiree the barricade
against the ghost assumes an easy and gentle form ;
a sprig of pearlwort fastened over the lintel of a
door from which a corpse has been carried is thought
sufficient to deter the poor ghost from passing the
threshold and re-entering his old home.1
W. Tettau und J. D. H. Temme, lieferungen in Voigtlande (Leipsig,
Die Volkssagen Ostpreussens, L i- 1867), pp. 251, 254; F. Panzer,
tauens und Westpreussens (Berlin, JBeitrage zur deutscken Mythologie
1837), p. 285 ; A. Kuhn, Markische (Munich, 1848-1855), i. 263 ; A.
Sagen und Mahrchen (Berlin, 1843), Kuhn und W. Schwartz, Nord-
p. 367 ; F. Nork, Die Sitten und deutsche Sagen, Marchen und Ge-
Gebrduche der Deutscken und ihrer brducke (Leipsig, 1848), p. 435.
Nachbarvolker (1845), pp. 479, 482 ; 1 J. G. Campbell, Superstitions of
J. A. E. Kohler, Volksbrauch, Aber- the Highlands and Islands of Scot-
glauben, Sagen und andere alte Uber- land (Glasgow, 1900), p, 241.
116
L E C T U R E VI
LECTURE VI
In the last lecture I gave some miscellaneous
examples of the devices which primitive man adopts
to prevent the spirits of the dead from returning to
molest the living. To-day we turn to a device of
another kind, which has had different and very
important consequences. With many primitive
peoples it has been customary to destroy all a dead
man’s property in order to prevent his ghost from
returning to claim and enjoy it. Wherever this
custom has been rigorously observed it has proved
a fatal bar to economic progress, by preventing that
accumulation and transmission of property which is
essential to the advance of industry, and indeed to
the very life of civilized society. Hence the tribes
which have practised the custom have remained
in a state of poverty and savagery from which they
can never emerge so long as they adhere to this
wasteful and ruinous practice.
Thus, for example, speaking of the natives of
Melville and Bathurst Islands to the north of
Australia, Baldwin Spencer observes : “ The paper
bark in which the body had been wrapped and all
the dead woman’s belongings were burnt in the fire,
VOL. II 119 1
LECTURE VI
In the last lecture I gave some miscellaneous
examples of the devices which primitive man adopts
to prevent the spirits of the dead from returning to
molest the living. To-day we turn to a device of
another kind, which has had different and very
important consequences. With many primitive
peoples it has been customary to destroy all a dead
man’s property in order to prevent his ghost from
returning to claim and enjoy it. Wherever this
custom has been rigorously observed it has proved
a fatal bar to economic progress, by preventing that
accumulation and transmission of property which is
essential to the advance of industry, and indeed to
the very life of civilized society. Hence the tribes
which have practised the custom have remained
in a state of poverty and savagery from which they
can never emerge so long as they adhere to this
wasteful and ruinous practice.
Thus, for example, speaking of the natives of
Melville and Bathurst Islands to the north of
Australia, Baldwin Spencer observes : “ The paper
bark in which the body had been wrapped and all
the dead woman’s belongings were burnt in the fire,
VOL. II 119 1
120 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
and afterwards the ashes were completely and care­
fully covered over. In the case of a man his weapons
are broken up and then burnt in the same way. In
most tribes all the belongings of a dead person are
the property of some special individual, such as a
mother's brother, but here they are all destroyed.” 1
From this statement we may infer that most Aus­
tralian tribes preserve the belongings of the dead and
pass them on to their next of kin ; they are therefore
in a more hopeful condition for economic progress
than the natives of Melville and Bathurst Islands,
who systematically destroy all the property of the
dead.
Among the Wonkonguru of the Lake Eyre
district of Central Australia, as soon as a man dies
his body is brought out of the hut by the men. It is
then tightly bound up with hair or fibre rope until
it is a stiff package, when it is deposited in a grave
about three feet deep. All the personal belongings
of the dead person are broken at the grave of a man
so that his spirit will not come back and use them.
Women’s belongings are not broken. The covering
of his hut and the sticks to make it are also put on
the grave, and then wood is piled on top. The wood
is provided so that when the dead person “ jumps
up ”— that is, rises from the grave— he will have a
supply of firewood handy, and the sticks and hut
covering are put there so that, in case it is cold when
the dead man comes back, he can build a shelter.2
1 Baldwin Spencer, Native Tribes 2 G. Home and G. Aiston, Savage
ofthe Northern Territory of Aus- Life in Central Australia (London,
tralia {London, 1914), p. 243. 1924), pp. 162-163.
LECTURE VI 121
Thus the attitude of these people towards the spirit
of a dead man exhibits a mixture of fear and tender
regard. They break his personal belongings because
they fear that the ghost will come back and use them,
but they provide the ghost with the means of obtain­
ing warmth and shelter on cold nights at the grave.
Among the natives of San Cristoval, one of the
Solomon Islands, after a man’s death his property
is destroyed; his trees are cut down, his nuts and
yams strewn about the ground, his bowl broken.
The broken property is placed on the grave. A
favourite dog or pig is also buried in a grave and
their belongings are also broken ; in the case of a
pig the bowl from which it fed will be broken, and
in the case of a dog its owner’s pig-hunting spear
will be stuck up on the grave and never used again.1
In some of the Solomon Islands a chief’s fruit trees
are cut down after his death.2 Among the Sulka of
New Britain, when a man died his plantations were
laid waste, his fruit trees were cut down, the fruits
themselves hacked in pieces, his pigs were killed and
cut up and his weapons were broken. In the case
of a wealthy or distinguished man his wives would
also be killed after his death.3 The motive for all
this destruction is not assigned by our authority, but
we may conjecture that it was a fear lest the ghost
of the dead man should return and attempt to enjoy
his property and his wives.
1 C. E. Fox, T h e T h resh old o f the 19 27)^ .215.
P acific (London, 1924), p. 211.
2 W. G. Ivens, M elanesians o f the 8 R. Parkinson, D re issig Ja h re in
South-east Solom on Is la n d s (London, der Siidsee (Studgart, 1907), p. 185.
122 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
The natives of Niue, or Savage Island, in the
Pacific disposed of the dead by setting their bodies
adrift in canoes, or by laying the body on a pile of
stones in the bush and covering it over with coconut
leaves. After a time the bones were gathered and
deposited in family caves or vaults. All the planta­
tions, coconut trees, and other fruit trees of a person
who died, were destroyed and thrown into the sea
that they might go with him to the world of spirits.1
Among the Kiwai Papuans of British New Guinea,
after a burial some of the most valuable ornaments
of the deceased are usually, but not always, kept by
the heir, while the rest are destroyed or given away
to people outside his or her group, sometimes to
other villages. The near relatives do not want to
keep the things of everyday use which have belonged
to the dead person, lest they should themselves die,
no doubt at the hands of the ghost, coming back to
reclaim his property from the new owner. Even
the harpoon-shaft of a man is often broken to pieces,
out of which the people manufacture harpoon-heads
or daggers. The people say that a harpoon-shaft
is sometimes broken in two, and the butt end kept,
to which a new shaft of bamboo is attached, so that
the weapon can be used again.2 Apparently they
think that the ghost will not recognize his harpoon
when once it has been broken or cut in pieces. A t
the same time they show a dawning sense of the
permanent value of property by occasionally allow-
1 G. Turner, Samoa (London, Papuans of British New Guinea
1884), p. 306. (London, 1927), p. 263.
2 G. Landtman, The Kiwai
LECTURE VI 123
ing some of the most valuable ornaments of the
deceased to be kept by his heir.
In the Nicobar Islands after a death, if the stores
of food belonging to the deceased or other occupants
of his hut were not removed prior to the death they
are at once carried away to another hut for issue
after the burial. Some of the coconut-shell water-
vessels are taken with their contents to the entrance
of the hut, where an uneven number (generally 3,
5 or 7 pairs) are violently dashed against a post so
as to crack the shells. In like manner all of the bulk
of the portable property of the deceased, such as (in
the case of a man) his spears, pots, baskets, paddles,
plates and a great variety of other articles, are broken
or otherwise rendered unserviceable ; and then the
whole are conveyed to the cemetery in order to be
deposited at the proper time on the grave or at the
head-post, this being one of the essential sacrifices
prescribed by time-honoured custom. The motive
for depositing the broken property on the grave or
at the head-posts is variously explained by the
natives. Some say that it is done in order that all
may see how sincere the mourners are in their inten­
tion of denying themselves the use or benefit of any
of the property, notwithstanding its undoubted
value in their eyes. “ Another reason given for this
wholesale destruction of property is that strangers
who have no respect for the sacredness of tabued or
sacrificed articles might appropriate uninjured and
serviceable objects regardless of the displeasure of
the disembodied spirit, who would unquestionably
124 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
resent any such token of indifference and disrespect
by wreaking vengeance probably on those through
whose remissness such misconduct had been rendered
possible.” 1 However, we may surmise that here as
elsewhere the true original motive for destroying a
dead man’s property was to prevent his ghost from
returning to make use of it.
The Banar in Tonquin are said to burn all objects
used by the deceased in order that he may not return
and trouble the living by asking for his property.2
The Koryaks of North-Eastern Asia cremate
their dead and burn with the body the weapons and
household furniture of the deceased, such as spears,
quivers and arrows, knives, hatchets and kettles;
and they kill the deer which drew the corpse to the
cremation ground and throw the fragments into the
fire.3
The Savara of Southern India burn their dead,
and with the body they bum everything that the
dead man had : his bows and arrows, his dagger,
his necklaces, his reaping-hook for cutting paddy,
his axe, some paddy and rice, and so forth. Mr.
Fawcett was told that all a man’s money was burnt
with him, but he thought that the statement was
doubtful, though perhaps a little of the money might
be so destroyed. When he asked the reason why a
man’s property is thus destroyed with his body he
1 E. H. Man, The Nicobar 3 S. Krasheninnikov, The History
Islands and their People (London, of Kamtsckatka and the Kurilski
n.d.), pp. 131, 132, 138. Islands, translated into English by
2 E- Reclus, Nouvelle Geographic James Grieve, M.D. (Gloucester,
Universelle, viii. p. 869. 1764), p. 233.
f
; L E C T U R E V I 125
was told that, if they did not destroy it, the man's l
:f spirit would come back and demand it of them, and f
trouble them.1
In Africa among the Yoruba-speaking peoples of ;
« the Slave Coast, on the day after a burial, all the :
i, articles which the deceased had in daily use, such
* as his pipe, his mat, his calabashes, and other things
of small value, are carried out into the bush and
burnt. Up to this point the soul of the deceased is
supposed to be lingering near his old home, and the j
destruction of his property is to signify that there is
no longer anything belonging to him. In former
■, times the destruction of property was carried much
1 further. Usually the room in which the deceased is
buried is closed and never used again ; sometimes
the roof is removed. Rich families even abandon
the house altogether. The deceased is then called
thrice by name and adjured to depart and no longer
I to haunt the dwellings of the living. After this a
fowl is sacrificed, which, besides securing a right-of-
J way for the soul, is supposed also to guide it. The
feathers of the fowl are scattered round the house,
and the bird itself carried out to a cross-roads, where
it is cooked and eaten.2 In a former lecture I gave i
other examplesof a bird or an animal employed to I
conduct the souls of the dead to the spirit-land.3 I
p. 249. 1
2 A. B. Ellis, TheYoruba-Speaking ■■■ ,1
Peoples of the Slave Coast of West
Africa (London, 1894), p. 159.
3 J. G« Frazer, The Pear of the ■]
Dead in Primitive Peligion (Lon- j
don, 1933), PP- 189 sqq.
1 E. Thurston, Castes and Tribes
of Southern India, vi. (Madras,
1909) p. 325; Fred. Fawcett,
“ Notes on the Soaras (or Savaras),
an Aboriginal Hill People of the
Eastern Ghats of the Madras Presi­
dency ” , Journal of the Anthropo­
logical Society of Bombay, i. (1886)
126 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
In the African kingdom of Gingiro the old
custom of destroying the property of the dead has
been reported as follows by Jesuit travellers of the
seventeenth or eighteenth century. After describing
the death of a king and the installation of his
successor, they proceed : “ The new king calls all the
dead one’s favourites and orders them to be killed to
bear the dead king company in the other world.
Then they burn the house the old king lived in, with
all his moveables, goods and furniture, not sparing
anything, though never so valuable; and even
when any private man dies, they burn not only his
house, but the very trees and plants that are about
it, and being asked why they do so, they answer, to
the end, that the dead man, who was us’d to those
places, do not return to them, invited by his former
habitation, and delight in walking among those
trees.” 1 Among the Bogos of Central Africa, as
reported by the French traveller, R. Caillie, when
the head of a family dies it is common to burn every­
thing that is in the house. A t the foot of his bed
the corpse is buried ; a fire is kindled over his head
every night, and the relations come and talk to him.
The family of the deceased who are ruined by this
act of superstition are supported till the next harvest
by the village, for even their rice is not saved from
the flames.8
With regard to the Kaffirs of South-East Africa,
an old Portuguese writer says that after the death
1 F. B. Tellez, S.J., The Travels of 2 R. Caillie, Travels through
the Jesuits in Ethiopia (London, Central Africa to Timhuctoo (Lon-
1710), p.199. don, 1830), p. 164.
LECTURE VI 127
and burial of a man “ they burn the thatched house
in which he resided with all it contains, so that no one
may possess anything that the deceased made use of
during his lifetime, or may even touch it, and if it so
happens that some one touches anything belonging
to the deceased he does not enter his house until he
has washed in the river. The ashes of the burnt
house with any pieces of wood not quite consumed
they put on the top of the grave.” 1 Summing up
the evidence of earlier writers on this subject, the
historian of South Africa, Dr. McCall Theal, says
that: “ There was an idea that something connected
with death attached to the personal effects of the
deceased, on which account whatever had belonged
to him that could not be placed in the grave, his
clothing, mats, head-rest, etc., was destroyed by fire.
The hut in which he had lived was also burned, and
no other was allowed to be built on the spot. If he
had been the chief, the whole kraal was removed to
another site. Those who touched the corpse or any
of the dead man’s effects were obliged to go through
certain ceremonies, and then to bathe in running
water before associating again with their compan­
ions.” 2 Speaking of the Kaffirs of Natal, that is
the Zulus, a good authority says that “ the deceased’s
personal articles are buried with him, the assegais
being broken or bent, lest the ghost, during some
1 Fr. J. dos Santos, Eastern 2 G. McCall Theal, Ethnography
Ethiopia, in G. McCall Theal, and Condition of South Africa be-
Records of South-Eastern Africa, fore a .D. 1505 (London, 1919), i.
vol. vii. (London, 1901) Book II. 221-222.
P- 3o7-
128 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
midnight return to air, should do injury with
them ’h1
Among the aborigines of America also the custom
of destroying a dead man’s property, or at all events
of refusing to make use of it, from a fear of his ghost
has been widely diffused, especially in South America.
Thus, among the Ahts of Vancouver Island after a
death, the whole of a dead man’s personal effects
that had not been given away before his death were
deposited with him— except his best canoes, his
house-planks, and fishing and hunting instruments,
which, with any slaves he may have had, were
inherited by his eldest son. But if his friends were
very superstitious they burnt the dead man’s house
with all its contents, or they removed the materials,
and built the house in another place.2 Thus, with
regard to the Ahts it would appear that while the
people as a whole had advanced to the stage of
inheriting a dead man’s most valuable property, the
more superstitious members of the community
adhered to the ancient custom of destroying it
utterly by fire. Among the Knisteneaux Indians,
if a dead man’s property was not buried with him
his ghost was supposed to return and sit on a tree
near the house, armed with a gun, ready to shoot
the frugal relatives who had thus deprived him of
the use of his goods.3 The Digger Indians of
California bum all the property of the deceased, so
1 J. Shooter, The Kafirs of Natal 1868), pp. 159, 160.
and the Zulu (London, 1857), p. 240. 3 A . Mackenzie, Voyages through
2 G. M. Sproat, Scenes and the Continent of North America,
Studies of Savage Life (London, p. cvi.
LECTURE VI 129
that the spirit of the dead man may have all that he
needs in the other world, and not return to look for
it among his surviving friends.1 Similarly, the
Kutchan Indians of the Colorado regarded the
property of a dead man as fraught with danger, and
accordingly they burned it with fire together with
the hut in which he had died.2 With regard to the
Maidu of California who systematically burned the
property of the dead, Professor Roland B. Dixon ob­
serves that “ owing to the general custom of burning
most, if not all, of the property of a man at his death,
there was little that could be inherited. Such things
as were not destroyed seem to have generally been
regarded as the property of the eldest son, although
other children and relatives often shared with him.” 3
Thus, while the Maidu destroyed the great bulk
of the dead man’s property, they seem to have had a
faint beginning of a custom of allowing some of it to
pass by inheritance to his surviving kinsfolk, especi­
ally to his eldest son. In that tribe the custom of
burning the property of the dead was a solemn
annual ceremony carried out by the whole body of
the people collectively on a special burning ground
set apart for the purpose. The property to be
destroyed was first attached to tall poles or collected
at their foot; after being thus exposed to public
view for a time it was thrown on the fire, until the
flames were almost choked by the weight of the
1 M. Macfie, VancouverIsland and 3 R. B. Dixon, “ The Northern
British Columbia, p. 449. Maidu ” , Bulletin of the American
2 Zeitschrift fu r Ethnologic, ix. Museum of Natural History, xvii.
p. 348. (1902) p. 226.
130 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
superincumbent property. At the burning held at
Mooretown in 1900 there were about a hundred and
fifty poles filled with objects, so the amount of
property sacrificed was not small. “ The purpose
of the whole ceremony is to supply the ghosts of the
dead with clothing, property and food in the other
world. Each family gives to its dead what it can
afford ; and the whole ceremony is distinctly indivi­
dual, in that there is no general offering for the dead
as a body, but each family offers directly to its own
relatives only . . . there is considerable property
placed with the body in the grave, and sometimes
some is burnt at the time of burial. The main
reliance is, however, placed on the supplies offered
at the annual burning. After sacrificing thus for
three or four years it seems to be felt that enough
has been done; and, as a rule, the family does not
continue to offer property for a relative at the burn­
ings for more than four or five years.” 1
The practice of the Mosquito Indians as regards
the property of the dead appears to be inconsistent.
“ When a death takes place, they generally bury a
bow and arrows, a gourd calabash, and knife, and
sundry other articles with the body, and carefully
keep in repair a small hut built over the grave, in
which they deposit from time to time such little
offerings as a yard or two of cloth, a bunch of plan­
tains, a bottle of rum, etc. They have also the
custom of destroying everything belonging to a dead
1 R. B. Dixon, op. cit. pp. 241 sqq., 254. (The quotation is from pp.
253. 254-)
LECTURE VI
person, burning his clothes, splitting his canoes, and,
worst of all, cutting down his fruit trees.” 1
Similarly, at a man’s death the Indians of Nica­
ragua destroy all the property that he had earned or
otherwise acquired in his lifetime ; they destroy also
his trees and all his banana plantations. The writer
who records the custom adds that in consequence
these Indians never prosper.2
The Catio Indians of Colombia in South America
carry a corpse out of the hut not by the usual door
but by another opening, in order that the ghost may
not be able to find his way back to his old dwelling.
And they bury the dead man’s property with him in
the grave, because they fear that otherwise his ghost
would come back to reclaim it, but apparently they
do not break or destroy the articles which they
deposit with the dead.3
Speaking of the Indian tribes in the valley of the
Orinoco the great German traveller Humboldt says :
“ Some tribes, for instance the Tamanacs, are
accustomed to lay waste the fields of a deceased
relative, and cut down the trees which he has planted.
They say ‘ that the sight of objects which belonged
to their relation makes them melancholy ’. They
like better to efface than to .preserve remembrances.
These effects of Indian sensibility are very detri-
1 C. N. Bell, “ The Mosquito Osten von Nicaragua ” , Petermann’s
Territory, its Climate, People, Pro- Mitteilungen, xxxix, (1893) p. 31.
ductions, ttcP ,Journal of the Royal 3 Joseph und Maria Schilling,
Geographical Society, xxxii. (1862) “ Religion und soziale Verhaltnisse
p.254. der Catios-Indianer in Kolumbien ” ,
2 Dr. Bruno Mierisch, “ Eine Archiv filr Peligionswissenschaft,
Reise nach den Goldgebieten im xxiii. (1925) p. 296.
131
132 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
mental to agriculture, and the monks oppose with
energy these superstitious practices, to which the
natives converted to Christianity still adhere in
the missions.” 1 While we can accept Humboldt’s
statement as to the destruction of the property of
the dead among these Indians, we may doubt the
truth of the motive which he puts in the mouth of
the people. They seem to have been converted to
Christianity, and were probably unwilling to reveal
to a traveller that fear of the spirits of the dead which
we can hardly doubt was the true original motive
of the practice.
Among the Kobeua Indians of North-West Brazil
on the borders of Colombia the dead are buried in
the communal house. On the closed grave are
burned the bow and arrows, the fish-traps and other
implements of a man or the baskets and sieve of a
woman, and her pots are smashed and the fragments
thrown away in the forest, in order that nothing of
the goods of the dead may remain behind, and that
the soul be not compelled to return to claim the
property and to punish the survivors for their negli­
gence or avarice.2
The Macusi Indians of British Guiana burn the
property of the dead.®
After a death the Conibos Indians of the Ucayale
River in North-Eastern Peru break everything in the
1 F. H. A . von Humboldt, Personal unter den Indianern (Berlin, 1909-
Narrative of Travels to the Equinoc- 1910), ii. p. 150.
tial Regions of America, English 3 R. Schomburgk, Reisen in
translation (London, 1852), ii. p. 487. Britisch - Guiana (Leipsic, 1847-
2 T. Koch-Griinberg, Zwei Jahre 1848), p. 422.
LECTURE VI 133
house and then set it on fire ; afterwards they cover
the whole site of the burnt hut with a thick layer of
ashes to receive the tracks of the ghost if he should
come to revisit his old dwelling.1 The Yaguas on
the upper waters of the Amazon destroy everything
that a dead man possessed or even touched ; they
kill his domestic animals and they lay waste his
gardens.2
In the Bororo tribe of Central Brazil it is the rule
that all the things which a dead man had made use
of should be either burnt or thrown into a river or
deposited in the basket which contains his bones, in
order to give his ghost no inducements to return and
fetch or enjoy his property. Professor von den
Steinen witnessed the destruction of the property
which had belonged to a dead woman; indeed the
property of all the members of her family who had
lived in the same hutwith her was destroyed. A man
decked withgreen leaves represented the dead woman,
who lay buried under a covering of green leaves.
This leaf-decked representative of the dead took
part in a dance. A man with two rattles led the
dance, behind him followed the leaf-decked man,
and next came four others. After dancing and
singing in chorus they ran away into the wood.
The representative of the dead woman then blew a
flute to summon two persons who had long been
dead and buried. It was deemed necessary that
their ghosts should be present at the ceremony of
1 F. de Castelnau, Expedition 8 F. de Castelnau, op. cit. v,
dans les parties centrales de VArne- (Paris, 1851) p. 19.
rique du Sud, iv. (1851) p. 384.
134 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
making over the property to the dead woman, in
order that they should welcome their new comrade
in the spirit-land and convince her that nothing that
belonged to her had been withheld, so that she should
have no excuse for coming back as a ghost to reclaim
the missing articles. These two dead persons were
represented by two men covered with mud, who
came out of the wood carried on the bodies of two
others. They jumped about, while bull-roarers were
swung. A fire was kindled and the property of the
deceased and her family was collected and burned,
while the men danced round the fire. The leaf­
decked man was held down by the two mud-covered
men. Afterwards he was released and danced
about with another man in a feather head-dress,
throwing the things about and stepping into the
flames.1
Yuracares are a tribe of Indians inhabiting the
Cordilleras of Santa Cruz de la Sierra to the north
east of Cochobamba. They bury with the dead his
clothes, his bow and arrows, and presents for dead
relatives in the other world, and they inter with him
all the movable property which he had used and not
given away in his lifetime. They break his wife's
kitchen utensils on the grave. The writer who
reports the custom adds that “ they burn everything
that he has not given away, for fear of his soul
returning to the house to look for it and to terrify
the survivors or touch them with the stick which a
1 K. von den Steinen, Unter den Naturvolkern Zentral-Brazilians (Berlin,
1894), PP- 502, 506 sqq.
LECTURE VI 135
ghost is supposed to carry and the touch of which
brings death ”.1
The Araucanians of the Pampas and the
Puelches and the Patagonians burn all a dead man’s
possessions on his grave and slaughter his domestic
animals, his horses and dogs, that they may accom­
pany him to the other world.2 Among the Lengua
Indians of the Paraguaian Chaco “ the personal
belongings and animals of the deceased are destroyed
at his death, evidently with the idea that they may
prove useful to him in the after-life. The reason
given by the Indian for doing this is that the ghost
would otherwise haunt the relatives.” 3 For the
same reason they not only abandon but destroy by
fire the village in which a death has taken place,
believing that the site is haunted by the hovering
spirit of the deceased for about a month, after which
they suppose that the spirit will depart and no longer
trouble them.4 In like manner at the southern
extremity of the continent the Onas of Tierra del
Fuego destroy all a dead man’s property at his
death except his dogs, and they shun the place of his
death and burial, making a long detour to avoid it,
whenever their nomadic life has brought them once
more into the neighbourhood.5
The disastrous economic and moral effects of this
systematic destruction of the property of the dead
1 A. d’Orbigny, Voyage dans
VAmerique Meridionale (Paris,
1835), iii. Ire Partie, 209.
2 A. d’Orbigny, & Homme ameri-
coin (Paris, 1839), i. pp. 196, 238.
3 W. B. Grubb, An Unknown
V O L . II
People in an Unknown Land
(London, 1911), p, 122.
4 W, B. Grubb, op. ciL pp. 122,
160 sqq.
5 C. R. Gallardo, Los Onas
(Buenos Aires, 1910), pp. 321 sqq.
K
136 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
which has prevailed so widely among the Indians of
South America have been well pointed out by the
French traveller, Alcide d’Orbigny, who witnessed
and has described the practice of the custom in
several tribes of that continent.
Speaking of the Patagonians who practise the
custom, this discerning traveller observes : “ They
have no laws, no punishments inflicted on the guilty.
Each lives as he pleases, and the greatest thief is
the most highly esteemed, because he is the most
dexterous. A motive which will always prevent
them from abandoning the practice of theft, and at
the same time will always present an obstacle to
their ever forming fixed settlements, is the religious
prejudice which, on the death of one of their number,
obliges them to destroy his property. A Patagonian
who has amassed during the whole of his life an
estate by thieving from the whites or exchanging the
products of the chase with neighbouring tribes, has
done nothing for his heirs; all his savings are
destroyed with him, and his children are obliged to
rebuild their fortunes afresh— a custom which, I
may observe in passing, is found also among the
Tamanaques of the Orinoco who ravage the field of
the deceased and cut down the trees which he has
planted;1 and among the Yuracares, who abandon
and shut up the house of the dead, regarding it as a
profanation to gather a single fruit from the trees of
his field. It is easy to see that with such customs
they can nourish no real ambition since their needs
1 F. H. A . von Humboldt, Voyage aux regions equinoxiales, viii. 273.
LECTURE VI 137
are limited to themselves ; it is one of the causes of
their natural indolence, and it is a motive which, so
long as it exists, will always impede the progress of
their civilization. Why should they trouble them­
selves about the future when they have nothing to
hope from it ? The present is all in all in their eyes,
and their only interest is individual; the son will
take no care of his father’s herd, since it will never
come into his possession ; he busies himself only
with his own affairs and soon turns his thoughts to
looking after himself and getting a livelihood. This
custom has certainly something to commend it from
the moral point of view in so far as it destroys all the
motives for that covetousness in heirs which is too
often to be seen in our cities. The desire or the
hope of a speedy death of their parents cannot exist,
since the parents leave absolutely nothing to their
children ; but on the other hand if the Patagonians
had preserved hereditary properties, they would
without doubt have been to-day in possession of
numerous herds, and would necessarily have been
more formidable to the whites, since their power in
that case would have been more than doubled,
whereas their present habits will infallibly leave
them in a stationary state, from which nothing but a
radical change will be able to deliver them.” 1
Here, for the present, I must bring these lectures
to a close, but I am far from having exhausted the
subject; there remain large and important aspects
1 Alcide d’Orbigny, Voyage dans sq. ; compare id., IdHomme ameri-
PAmerique Meridionale, ii. (Paris cai?i (Paris, 1839), ii. p. 74,
and Strasburg, 1839-1843) pp. 99
V O L . II K 2
138 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
of it on which I have hitherto said little or nothing.
In future I shall hope to supply some at least of
these omissions. Meantime, perhaps, even in these
short lectures I have said enough to give you an
idea, however imperfect, of the extent and depth of
that fear of the spirits of the dead which, for good or
evil, has played a great part in the development of
religion.
f
>
*
?
i
I
I N D E X
Abbott, Mr. G. F., on the Greek and
Slavonic conceptions of the vam­
pire, 86
Aborigines, American, destroy pro­
perty of the dead, 128 ; Australian,
tie up corpse to prevent return of
ghost, -64 ; mutilate dead to pre­
vent ghosts from walking, 68 ;
their precautions to prevent return
of ghost, 71, 72
Abyssinia, bones of corpse broken
before burial in, 69
Adiri, the land of departed spirits,
13
Afars, the, of Abyssinia, break bones
of corpse before burial, 69
Africa, the fear of the dead in, 18,
19 ; driving away the dead in, 19;
water used as barrier against dead
in, 38, 39; use of water barrier
against ghosts in, 40, 41, 44, 45;
use of water for purification in, 43,
44; use of water after funerals in,
45 ; barrier of fire against dead
in, 58, 59; corpse tied up to pre­
vent return of ghost in, 67; corpse
mutilated to prevent return of ghost
in, 68, 69; dead mutilated to kill
ghost in, 69; mutilation of dead in,
75 ; poison used to prevent return
of ghost in, 75, 76 ; animal killed
and eaten to prevent return of ghost
in, 76; sickness attributed to the
dead in, 76; magician’s body muti­
lated in, 78 ; killing the ghost in,
90-94 ; destruction of soul by cut­
ting up child’s body in, 93, 94; pre­
cautions taken to prevent return of
ghost in, 110 ,111; water sprinkled
on grave to prevent return of spirit
in, 112 ; property of the dead de­
stroyed in, 125, 126
African negroes, West, cut up child’s
body to destroy soul, 93, 94
Agweh, barrier of fire against dead
in, 60 /
Aheriyas, the, obstruct return of
dead, 32
Ahts, the, of Vancouver Island, de­
stroy property of the dead, 128,
inherit property of the dead,, 128
A-hun-ig-ut, “ the bottom day ” , *20
Ainu, the, of Japan, use water as
barrier against ghosts, 37
“ Aka-oa ” , friends, 89
Alaska, urine used to prevent return
of ghost in, 112
Algonkin Indians, the, obstruct re­
turn of dead, 35
Alistrati, treatment of vampire at, 87
All Souls’ Day, 4
Amazon, the, the Yaguas on, 133
Ambaca, the people of, use water for
purification after funeral, 43
Ambau, Tanoa, King of, 90
Ambrosian MS. of the Iliad, draw­
ing depicting maiming of victim
by murderer in, 82
America, driving away the dead in,
20 ; obstructing return of dead in,
34; use of water as a barrier
against the dead in, 46, 47 ; corpse
tied up to prevent return of ghost
in, 67 ; dead mutilated to prevent
139
140 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
return of ghost in, 70 ; body muti­
lated to prevent return of ghost in,
78 ; attempts to amuse the soul of
the deceased in, 1x3; property of
the dead destroyed in, 128 ; dead
carried out by special opening in,
131 ; property of the dead buried
in, 131 ; property of the dead de­
stroyed in, 136
Angatra, spirits, 18
Angola, the natives of, use water for
purification after funeral, 43
Animals killed and eaten to prevent
return of ghost, 76
Animals, domestic, killed, after a
death, 133
Annual burning, 130
Aracan Mountains, the tribes in,
place iron in coffin to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 104
Araucanians, the, of Chili, strew
ashes to prevent return of spirit,
113 ; of the Pampas, destroy pro­
perty of the dead, 135
Armenians, the, decapitate corpse to
disable ghost, 78
Arunta, the, behaviour at burial, 6
Ashes strewn to prevent return of
spirit, 113 ; strewn on site of burnt
hut, 133
Asia, the dead burned in, 108 ;
spirits regarded as hostile to the
living in, 108; property of the
dead burned in, 124
Assam, the dead prevented from re­
turning in, 30 ; use of barrier of
fire against dead in, 56; pre­
cautions taken to avoid dreams of
ghosts, 105
Athikhi, the spirit-land, 105, 106
Atonga, the, of British Central
Africa, use barrier of fire against
dead, 58
Australia, obstructing return of dead
in, 36 ; corpses tied up and muti­
lated to prevent return of ghost in,
64; dead mutilated to prevent
ghosts from walking in, 68; dead
mutilated to prevent return of
ghost in, 70; dead mutilated to
disable ghost in, 71 * precautions
taken to prevent return of ghost in,
71, 72; natives of, preserve pro­
perty of the dead, 120 ; personal
belongings of dead broken in, 120
Bachama tribes of Northern Nigeria,
new king of, prevents return of late
chief’s ghost, n o
Baganda, the, kill ghost, 92
Ba-Ila-speaking people, the, of
Northern Rhodesia, use water after
funeral, 44; mutilate body of child­
less man, 77
Bakarewe, the, drive away the dead,
18
Bakongo, the, use water barrier
against ghosts, 40
Bana, the, of the Cameroons, take
precautions to prevent return of
ghost, i l l
Banana-tree buried with corpse, to
prevent return of dead, 98
Banar, the, in Tonquin, burn pro­
perty of the dead, 124
Bangala, the, water used as barrier
against dead by, 38
Banks’ Islands, the, natives drive
away the dead in, 7
Banyankole, the, of Uganda, kill
ghost, 91
Banyoro, the, of Uganda, kill ghost,
9i
Bari tribe, the, of the Nilotic Sudan,
drive away the dead, 18 ; submit
body of rain-maker to special
treatment, 109
Barricading house, 115
Barundi, the, of Central Africa, tie
up corpse to prevent return of
ghost, 67
Basutos, the, use water as barrier
against ghosts, 40
Batchelor, Rev. John, on use of
water as barrier against ghosts, 37
Bathurst Island, natives of, destroy
property of the dead, 119
Battle of the ghosts, the, 89
Bavenda, the, of the Northern Trans­
vaal, kill ghost, 93
Bella Coola Indians, the, obstruct re­
turn of dead, 34
INDEX 141
Bengal, dangerous ghosts of women
in, 72 ; precautions taken to pre­
vent return of ghost in, 72
Bering Strait, Eskimo of, 20, 68, 78
Bhotias, the Western, of Thibet,
their behaviour after a death, 16
Bilaspur District of India, the Pabia,
a small caste in, 107
Birhors, the, of Chota Nagpur, use
barrier of fire against dead, 55, 56;
of Bengal, their precautions to pre­
vent return of ghost, 72
Blinds, lowering of, in house of
mourning, 36
Bogos, the, of Central Africa, burn
everything in the hut after a death,
126
Boloki, the, of the Upper Congo, use
barrier of fire against dead, 59
Bo-maki, ceremony of driving away
the dead, 12
Borneo, obstructing return of dead
in, 33 ; corpse tied up to prevent
return of ghost in, 66
Bororo tribe, the, of Central Brazil,
destroy property of the dead, 133 ;
dance during destruction of pro­
perty, 133, 134
Bosnia, the Drina district of, corpse
of vampire mutilated in, 84, 85
Brahmans touch fire to bar return of
ghosts, 57
Brazil, corpse tied up to prevent re­
turn of ghost in, 67; dead muti­
lated to disable ghost in, 71 ; fear
of the dead in, 115 ,
* tying up of
dead to prevent return of ghost in,
115 ,
* property of the dead de­
stroyed in, 132, 133
British Columbia, natives of, drive
away the dead, 2 1 ; obstruct return
of dead, 34
fipvKohaia&teL, vampire, 86
Bulgaria, precautions against becom­
ing a vampire in, 84
Bull-roarers, sounded, 8 ; swung at
death ceremony, 134
Bura tribes of Northern Nigeria, the,
kill ghost, 90
Burma, driving away the dead in, 17;
precautions to prevent the return
of the dead in, 28 ; use of water as
barrier against dead in, 37 ; use of
water after funeral in, 46 ; corpse
tied up to prevent return of ghost
in, 66; precautions taken to pre­
vent return of ghost in, 102 ; pre­
cautions taken to prevent return
of dead in, 104
Burning, annual, 130
Butaritari, families of, attitude to­
wards the soul, 13
Caillie, R., on destruction of pro­
perty of the dead, 126
California, property of the dead
burned in, 128
Californian Peninsula, Indians of,
mutilate dead to prevent return of
ghost, 70
Cameroons, the, natives of, use water
for purification after funeral, 43 ;
corpse mutilated to prevent return
of ghost in, 68, 69; precautions
taken to prevent return of ghost in
the, i n
Camp shifted after death, 102
Canada, obstructing return of dead
in, 35
Canadian Indians, the, their belief
regarding the dead, 22
Catio Indians, the, of Colombia, re­
move corpse by special opening,
131; bury property of the dead,
131
Celebes, use of water as barrier
against ghosts in, 45, 50 ; natives
of, their belief that men can become
werewolves, 72
Ceylon, water used after funeral in,
45
Chatham Islands, killing the ghost
in, 87
Chaudans, behaviour of natives after
a death, 16
Cheremiss, the, of Russia, mutilate
corpse to prevent return of ghost,
67
Chief, body of, mutilated to prevent
return of ghost, 77
Childless man, body of, mutilated,
77 ■
142 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Chili, ashes strewn to prevent return
of spirit in, 113 ; fear of the dead
in, 114; tracks obscured to con­
fuse ghost in, 114
China, use of barrier of water and
fire in, 55
Chins, the, bum their dead, 28
Chittagong, North-Eastern India,
precautions taken to prevent return
of ghost in, 104
Chota Nagpur, use of barrier of fire
against dead in, 56
Christianity, natives converted to,
132
Chuvash, the, of Russia, fasten corpse
down to prevent return of ghost,
67 ; mutilate corpse to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 67
Civilization impeded by destruction
of property of the dead, 137
Codrington, Dr. R. H., on the Mela­
nesians, 8
Colombia, barrier of fire against dead
in, 6r ; Catio Indians of, 131
Colorado, the, Indians of, bum pro­
perty of the dead, 129
Conches, sounded, 8
Congo River, Lower, the natives of,
use water barrier against ghosts,
40
---------------, Upper, the natives of,
water used as barrier against dead
by, 38 ; barrier of fire against dead
in, 59
Conibos Indians, the, of N.-E. Peru,
burn house of dead, 132; strew
ashes on site of burnt hut, 133
Cora Indians, the, drive away the
dead, 22
Cordilleras of Santa Cruz de la
Sierra, the, the Yuracares of, 134
Covetousness checked by destruction
of property of the dead, 137
Cow sacrificed and stepped over to
prevent return of ghost, n o
Cremation of body of girl by the
Koryak, 108
Crete, modem, barrier of water used
against ghosts in, 48
Cyprus, barrier of water used against
ghosts in, 48
Damara, the, of South-West Africa,
use water after funeral, 45; muti­
late corpse to kill ghost, 69
Danakil tribe, of Abyssinia, break
bones of corpse before burial, 69
Dance, ghost expelled from house by,
104; during destruction of pro­
perty, 133, 134
Dangerous souls, destroyed, 93, 94
Dawson, Mr. Warren, on embalm­
in g s
Dead, the, fear of, 3 ; souls of, re­
spect and admiration for, 4;
buried in the house, 4; their
spirits welcomed home and enter­
tained, 4 ; their spirits brought
back to the house, 4 ; propitiated,
4; practice of embalming, 4 ;
driven away by the living, 5, 7, 8,
9, 10, 13, 17, 18, 19, 22 ; attitude
of primitive man to, 5 ; their skulls
preserved, 9; their spirits revisit
their former homes, 18; illness
caused by, 21, 76, 77, 91, 92 ; pre­
cautions to prevent their return,
27 sqq.; disease caused by, 36; bar­
rier of water used against, 47, 55,
104, 109; barrier of fire against
their return, 53-62 ; prevention of
return of, by mutilation, 62-4, 67-
72, 75-85 ; killing the ghost, 87 ;
pestilence attributed to, 82, 83;
death caused by, 93 ; prevention of
return of, 97 sqq.; buried face
downwards, 102, 108; ghost
baffled, 102, 114; carried out by
special opening, 102, 103, 113;
pebble used to sever connexion
with, 107; nets used to catch
spirits of, 107, 108; burned, 108,
124 ; cow sacrificed to prevent re­
turn of, 110 ; belief in rebirth of,
112 ; attempts to amuse, 113;
ashes strewn to prevent return of,
113 ; property of, destroyed, 1x9
sqq.; regard for personal comfort
of, 120, 1 21 ; property of, some­
times transmitted to heir, 123;
property of, buried, 127, 128, 130,
131, 134; property of, inherited,
128, 1297 offering for, 130 ; re-
INDEX 143
ligion developed in past through
fear of spirits of, 138
Death caused by the dead, 93
Decapitation of corpse to disable
ghost, 78 ; of dead to stop plague,
S
3
Dene-Dindjie Indians, the, of North-
West America, try to amuse the
soul of the deceased, 113
Destruction of property of the dead,
its fatal economic effects, 119 ;
various motives assigned for, 123
Dhobas, the, obstruct return of dead,
31
Dieri, the, of Central Australia, tie
corpse to prevent ghost walking, 63
Digger Indians, the, of California,
burn property of the dead, 128
Disease attributed to the action of the
dead, 9, 36
Dixon, Prof. Roland B., on destruc­
tion of property of the dead, 129
Dolon, Homeric episode of, 82
Domestic animals killed after a death,
133
Dorsey, Rev. J. Owen, on the
Omahas, 78
Dream, to, of ghost of dead man
deemed dangerous, 105 ; regarded
as reality, 105
Drina district of Bosnia, corpse of
vampire mutilated in, 84, 85
Dropsy, water considered the best
preservative against, 50; death
from, 79
Dyaks, the Sea, obstruct return of
dead, 33
Economic effects of destruction of
property, 135
Egypt, ancient, classic land of em­
balming, 5
Erskine, Captain J. E., on driving
away the dead in Fiji, 10
Eskimo, the, drive away the dead,
20 ; do not dread return of ghost,
68 ; mutilate body to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 78 ; of Alaska, urine
used to prevent return of ghost by,
112
Europe, driving away the dead in,
23 ; obstructing return of dead in,
36 ; barrier of water used against
ghosts in, 47; barrier of fire
against ghosts in, 62 ; mangling of
dead in, 81; belief in vampires in,
83; house barricaded against ghost
in, 115
Ewe-speaking people, the, drive
away the dead, 19 ; use barrier of
fire against dead, 60
Eyre, Lake, district, the Wonkon-
guru of, 120
Face downwards, dead buried, 102,
108
Fangs, the, of West Africa, their use
of water as barrier against ghosts,
44; use barrier of fire against
dead, 59
Fawcett, F., on burning of money,
124
Fear of the spirits of the dead, its
part in the development of religion,
13
8
Feasting and drinking after funeral,
107
Feet foremost, dead carried out, 100
Fiji, killing a ghost in, 89, 90
Fijian Islands, the, driving away the
dead in, 10
Fire, barrier of, against the spirits of
the dead, 53-62 ; against vampire,
8
5
Fowl sacrificed, 125 ; as consolation,
105
Fruit trees of dead cut down, 121,
122, 131
Gabun district of West Africa, the
natives of, their varying attitude
towards the dead, 18, 19; water
as barrier against dead in, 39;
mutilation of dead in, 75 ; poison
used to prevent return of ghost in,
75, 76 ; animal killed and eaten to
prevent return of ghost in, 76 ;
sickness attributed to the dead in,
76
Gardens laid waste after death, 133
Gardiner, Mr. Alan H., on fear of the
dead,5
144 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Geelvink Bay, the Papuans of, their
behaviour after a burial, 15 ; use
water barrier against ghosts, 41 ;
their precautions to prevent return
of ghost, 100
Germans, the, drive away the dead,
23
Germany, barrier of water used
against ghosts in, 48 ; precautions
taken to prevent return of ghost in,
” 5
Ghost. See Dead
Ghosts driven away by force, 6 sqq. ;
precautions to prevent return of,
27 sqq.; roads barricaded against
return of, 28 ; barrier of water
against, 37-50, 102, 104, 109;
barrier of fire against, 53-62 ; tying
up of bodies to prevent return of,
63-8, 101 ; mutilation of bodies to
prevent return of, 68-72, 75-85 ;
killed, 87-94 j captured in pots,
91, 92
Gilbert Islands, the, driving away
the dead in, 12
Gilolo, natives of, the, their pre­
cautions to prevent return of dead,
97-9
Gingiro, kingdom of, the, property
of the dead destroyed in, 126
Goajire Indians, the, of Colombia,
use barrier of fire against dead, 61
Gold placed in mouth of corpse, 99
Gold Coast, the, purification by fire
and water on, 60
Gov, one covered with sores, 8, 9
Greece, ancient, 49; water considered
the best preservative against death
by dropsy in, 50; mangling of
dead by murderers in, 81
—— , modem, barrier of water used
against ghosts in, 48; belief in
vampires in, 83
Greeks, modem, their belief in vam­
pires, 86
Grimble, Arthur, on the ceremony of
bo-maki, 12
Grubb, Rev. W., on mutilation of
dead, 79
Guiana, British, property of the dead
burned in, 132
Halmahera, natives of, the, their pre­
cautions to prevent return of dead,
97-9
Head foremost, dead carried out, 100
Hebridean Islands, barricade against
ghost in, 116
Herbert River, in South-East Aus­
tralia, the natives of, mutilate
corpse to prevent return of ghost,
63.64
Hereditary property favourable to
wealth and power, 137
Hereford, Bishop of, advises maim­
ing of corpse, 82
Herero, the, of South-West Africa,
use water after funeral, 45 ; muti­
late corpse to kill ghost, 69; kill
ghost, 90
Himalayas, the, obstructing return
of dead in, 32
Hindoos, the, use water for purifica­
tion after funeral, 42
Ho tribe of Togoland, the, sprinkle
water on grave to prevent return
of spirit, 112
Homeric episode of Dolon, 82
Homoeopathic principles, fallacy of,
50
Hood Bay, the natives near, their
attitude towards the dead, 14
House, obstructing return of spirits
of the dead to the, 36 ; barricaded
against ghost, 115; of dead
abandoned after a death, 125, 136;
rebuilt after a death, 128 ; burned
after death, 133
Huichol Indians, the, obstmct return
of dead, 35
von Humboldt, F. H. A., on destruc­
tion of property of the dead, 131,
132,136
Ignatius, Feast of, pig killed at, 86
fc Iku kikau ” , cocoa-nut leaf, 89
Iliad, the, drawing depicting maim­
ing of victim by murderer in, 82
Illness attributed to the dead, 77
Immortality, the belief in, almost
universal, 3
Inao, sacred whittled sticks, 37
India, the dead prevented from re­
INDEX US
turning in, 31 ; barrier of water
used against ghosts in, 50 ; water
considered the best preservative
against death by dropsy in, 50;
use of barrier of fire against dead
in, 56, 57 ; precautions taken to
prevent return of spirit in, 104,
107 ; pebble used to sever con­
nexion with spirit in, 107 ; nets
used to catch spirits in, 107, 108
Indian tribes of the Orinoco, the,
cut down trees of the dead, 131
Indians, the ancient, tie up corpse to
prevent return of ghost, 66
------ , the, of North America, muti­
late dead to prevent return of
ghost, 70; of Brazil, their fear of
the dead, 115; tie up corpse to
prevent return of ghost, 115 ; of
Nicaragua, destroy property of the
dead, 131 ; cut down fruit trees
of dead, 131 ; of South America,
destruction of property of the dead
by, 136
Inheriting property of the dead, 128,
129
Iron, to prevent return of ghost, 104
Jadegi, Wejinecte man, 79
Japan, use of water as barrier against
ghosts in, 37
Jesuit travellers on destruction of
property of the dead, 126
Jesuits, the, on North American
Indians, 22
Kachins, the, drive away the dead,
17 ; the, obstruct return of dead,
29,35
Kaffirs, the, of South Africa, their
use of water for purification, 43 ;
of South-East Africa, burn pro­
perty of the dead, 126 ; of Natal,
personal articles buried with dead
by, 127
Kakhyen, the, of Upper Burma, take
precautions to prevent return of
ghost, 103
Kamilaroi tribe, the, drive away the
dead, 7
Karens, the, of Burma, their pre­
cautions to separate spirits of liv­
ing from dead, 104
Kawar, the, of India, use pebble to
sever connexion with spirit, 107
Kenta, the, shift camp after a death,
102
Kenya, illness attributed to dead in,
77 ; body of sick man burned in, 77
Khambu caste, in Sikkim, use barrier
of water and fire against dead, 54
Kiko-kiko, evil spirit of the dead, 87,
88
Kilimanjaro, Mount, the Wajagga
of, n o
Killing the ghost, the practice of, 69,
S7-94
------ wives after death of husband,
121
King, new, prevents return of late
chief’s ghost, n o
King George’s Sound, the natives
near, tie up corpse to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 66
Kingsley, Miss Mary, on purification
by fire and water, 60; on cutting
up of child’s body to destroy soul,
93, 94
Kissi, the, of Liberia, mutilate dead
to prevent return of ghost, 70
Kiwai Papuans, the, of British New
Guinea, their attitude towards the
dead, 13 ; obstruct return of dead,
33 ; use water after burial, 46;
carry corpse to grave head fore­
most, 100 ; destroy property of the
dead, 122
Knisteneaux Indians, the, bury pro­
perty of the dead, 128
Kobeua Indians, the, of North-West
Brazil, destroy property of the
dead, 132
Korku, the, a Munda people, take
precautions to prevent .return of
spirit, 107
Koryak, the, of Asia, regard spirits
as hostile to the living, 108; burn
their dead, 108; of North-East
Asia, burn the property of the
dead, cremate their dead, 124
Kpelle, the, obstruct return of dead,
33 :
146 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Kraal removed to another site after
a death, 127
Kunbis, the, their funeral rites, 16
Kutchan Indians, the, of the Colo­
rado, burn property of the dead,
129
Kwearriburra tribe, the, of Queens­
land, mutilate dead to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 70
Kythniotes, the, use barrier of water
against ghosts, 48
La Fleche, Frank, on mutilation of
dead killed by lightning, 79
Lakhers, the, of Assam, obstruct re­
turn of dead, 30; use barrier of
fire against dead, 56 ; take pre­
cautions to avoid dreams of ghosts,
105
Lasama, the, a clan, kill ghost, 90
Laudun, William, 82
Lengua Indians, the, of the Para-
guaian Chaco, mutilate bodies of
dead, 79; their fear of falling
stars, 80 ; take precautions to pre­
vent return of ghost, 114 ; destroy
property of the dead, 135
Lhota Nagas, the, of Assam, use
barrier of fire against dead, 56
Liberia, the natives of, obstruct re­
turn of dead, 33 ; dead mutilated
to prevent return of ghost in, 70
Lightning, body of man killed by,
mutilated, 78
Loango, the natives of, drive away
the dead, 19 ; obstruct return of
dead, 33, 34
Lumholtz, C., Swedish traveller, on
tying up of bodies of the dead, 64
Mabuiag, island of, the, corpse
carried to grave feet foremost in,
100
Macedonia, belief in vampires in,
83, 86
Macusi Indians, the, of British
Guiana, burn property of the dead,
132
Magician, body mutilated, 78
Magpie imitated at cremation of
body of girl, 108
Maidu, the, of California, burn pro­
perty of the dead, 129; inherit
property of the dead, 129
Maiming, prevention of return of
dead by, 62-4, 67-72, 75-85
Malagasy, the, their belief that
spirits revisit their former homes,
17
Malay Peninsula, dwarf tribes of the,
shift camp after a death, 102
Mamnagita, one afflicted with an
ulcer, 8
Mandwa, priest, 92
Mangaia, the island of, killing the
ghosts in, 88
Mangars, the, of Nepal, erect barri­
cade to prevent return of dead, 28
Mangling of dead, by murderers, to
prevent ghost taking vengeance,
81
Maoris, the, use water as barrier
against ghosts, 45
Map, Walter, on maiming of body
of Welsh malefactor, 82
Maratha leader, Sivaji, 33
Marquesas Islands, the, driving
away the dead in, 1x
“ Mauri ” , ghosts, 89
Mbula tribes of Northern Nigeria,
new king of, prevents return of late
chief’s ghost, 110
Mecklenburg, barrier of water and
fire against dead in, 62
Melville Island, burial in, 6 ; natives
of, destroy property of the dead,
119
Mexico, driving away the dead in,
22 ; obstructing return of dead in,
35
-— — , ancient, use of water as barrier
against the dead in, 47
Michoacan, king of, water used after
burial of, 47
Milky Way, the, soul ascends to, 80
Miller, George, on mutilation of dead
killed by lightning, 79
Mindanao, the Subanos of, 101
Moi's, the, obstruct return of dead, 30
Money burned, 124
Monsembe, water used as barrier
against dead in, 38
INDEX 147
Mooretown, burning of property of
dead at, 130
Moral effects of destruction of pro­
perty, 135
Mori-oris, the, of the Chatham
Islands, kill ghost, 87
Mosquito Indians, the, use water as
a barrier against the dead, 47 ;
bury property of the dead, 130 ;
destroy property of the dead, 130 ;
cut down fruit trees of dead, 130,
13
1
Mossi, the, of the Western Sudan,
mutilate chief's body to prevent
return of ghost, 77
Mother's brother's wife in ritual, 105
Motlav, ghost-driving at, 8
Mount Elgon district, in Kenya,
natives of, burn body of sick man,
77
Mull, Island of, barricade against
ghost in, 1 16
Munda people, the Korku, 107
Murderers mangle dead to prevent
ghost taking vengeance, 81
Mutilation, prevention of return of
dead by, 62-4, 67-72, 75-85; of
dead to kill ghost, 69; of dead to
stop plague, 83
Mytilini, modern, barrier of water
used against ghosts in, 48
Names changed, to prevent return of
dead, 98
Nassau, Rev. Robert, on water as
barrier against dead, 39; on
mutilation of dead to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 69
Natal, personal articles buried with
dead in, 127
Negroes, West African, cut up
child's body to destroy soul, 93, 94
Nepal, the Mangars of, 28
Nets used to catch spirits, 107, 108
New Britain, the natives of, drive
away the dead, 10
New Guinea, the natives of, drive
away the dead, 13 ; their varying
attitude to the dead, 13, 15 ; ob­
struct return of dead, 33 ; use
water barrier against ghosts, 4 1;
use of water after a burial in,-45,
46 ; precautions taken to prevent
return of ghost in, 100; property
of the dead destroyed in, 122
New South Wales, driving away the
dead in, 7
New Zealand, use of water as barrier
against ghosts in, 45
Newcastle, Western Australia, the
natives near, tie up corpse to pre­
vent return of ghost, 65
Ngarigo, the, obstruct return of dead,
36
Nias, the natives of, obstruct return
of dead, 36; Island of, pre­
cautions taken to prevent return of
ghost in, 99
Nicaragua, property of dead de­
stroyed in, 131 ; fruit trees cut
down in, 131
Nicobar Islands, barrier of fire
against dead in, 57, 58 ; portable
property of dead destroyed in, 123
Niger Delta, the, plantain stem used
to prevent return of ghost in, i n
Nigeria, killing the ghost in, 90
------ , Northern, new king prevents
return of late chief’s ghost in, n o
------ , Southern, belief in rebirth of
dead in, 112
Nilotic Sudan, the, natives of, drive
away the dead, 18 ; body of rain­
maker submitted to special treat­
ment in, 109
Niue Island, natives of, destroy pro­
perty of the dead, 122
Nyanja-speaking peoples, the, their
use of water as barrier against
ghosts, 45
Nyasaland Protectorate, use of water
as barrier against ghosts in, 45 ;
barrier of fire against dead in, 58 ;
precautions taken to prevent re­
turn of ghost in, 1 11
Offering for the dead, 130
Ogowe, the, West Africa, 69
Ojebway Indians, the, drive away the
dead, 22
Omahas, the, mutilate body of man
killed by lightning, 78
14B THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Onas, the, of Tierra del Fuego, de­
stroy property of the dead, 135
Opening, dead carried out by special,
102, 103, 113, 131
Orang Utan, the, shift camp after a
death, 102
Oraons, the, of Bengal, use water
after funeral, 46 ; use barrier of
fire against dead, 55
d’Orbigny, Alcide, on destruction of
property of the dead, 136
Orinoco, the, Indian tribes of, 131 ;
the Tamanaques of, 136
Orokaiva, the, of New Guinea, their
attitude after a death, 15
Ovambo, the, of South-West Africa,
mutilate body of magician, 78
Pabia, the, of India, use nets to catch
spirits, 107
Pabir tribes of Northern Nigeria, the,
kill ghost, 90
Palaungs, the, of Burma, take pre­
cautions to prevent return of ghost,
103
Pampas, the, Araucanians of, 135
Papuans, the, of Geelvink Bay, use
water barrier against ghosts, 41 ;
their precautions to prevent return
of ghost, 100
Paraguaian Chaco, the Lengua
Indians of the, 114, 135 ; mutilate
bodies of dead, 79
Patagonians, the, destroy property of
the dead, 135-7
Pearlwort, sprig of, to bar ghost, 116
Pebble used to sever connexion with
spirit, 107
Pehhuenches, the, of Chili, their fear
of the dead, 114 ; obscure tracks to
confuse ghost, 114
Perth, Western Australia, the natives
near, tie up corpse to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 65
Peru, Indians of, use water as a bar­
rier against the dead, 47 ; house
of dead burned in, 132; ashes
strewn on site of burnt hut in, 133
Pestilence attributed to dead, 82, 83
Pestle, paddy, regarded as barrier
against passage of a spirit, 106
Plantain stem used to prevent return
of ghost, 112
Plantations of the dead destroyed,
121, 122, 131
Plugging of body of rain-maker, 110
Plutarch, case of water barrier re­
corded by, 49, 50
Poison used to prevent return of
ghost, 75, 76
Pontianak, evil spirit of woman dying
in child-bed, 99
Port Moresby, the natives near, their
attitude towards the dead, 14
Pots, ghosts captured in, 91, 92 ;
spirits of the living imprisoned in,
106
Property of the dead, destroyed, 119
sqq.; sometimes transmitted to
heir, 123 ; buried, 127, 128, 130,
131, 134; inherited, 128, 129
Prussia, belief in vampires in, 83, 84;
corpse mutilated to defeat vampire
in, 83, 84
*
------, East, corpse decapitated to stop
plague in, 83 ; precautions taken
to prevent return of ghost in,
115
Puelches, the, destroy property of the
dead, 135
Punjab, the, ghosts of sweepers
dreaded in, 108
Purari Delta, the, natives of, drive
away the dead, 13
Queensland, bodies tied up to pre­
vent return of ghosts in, 64; dead
mutilated to prevent return of
ghost in, 70
Rain-maker, body of, submitted to
special treatment, 109
Rajamahall, India, barrier of water
used against ghosts in, 50
Rebirth of dead, belief in, 112
Religion developed in great part
through fear of spirits of the dead,
13
8
Rhodesia, Northern, natives of, use
water after funeral, 44; body of
childless man mutilated in, 77
Rice an emblem of purity, 105 ;
INDEX 149
touching of, prevents dreaming,
106
Rome, driving away the dead in, 23
------ , ancient, use of barrier of water
after a death in, 49; barrier of fire
used against the dead in, 62
Rook, natives of, use water after
burial, 46
Roro-speaking tribes of British New
Guinea, the, drive away the dead,
14
Roumanians, the, of Transylvania,
their belief concerning vampires,
8
S
Russia, corpse fastened down to pre­
vent return of ghost in, 67 ; corpse
mutilated to prevent return of
ghost in, 67 ; precautions taken to
prevent return of ghost in, 115
Ruthenia, barrier of fire used against
ghosts in, 62
Sahmahei, fermented rice, 105
Sal, tree, 56
San Cristoval, natives of, their atti­
tude tothe dead, 9; destroy property
of the dead, 121
S&ntals, the, of Bengal, dangerous
ghosts of women among, 72 ; their
precautions to prevent return of
ghost, 72
Santos, Fr. J. dos, on destruction of
property of the dead, 126, 127
Satapatha -Brdhmana, an ancient
Indian book, 32 ; water described
as barrier against dead in, 38
Savage Island, natives of, destroy
property of the dead, 122
Savara, the, of Southern India, drive
away the spirit of the dead, 17;
burn their dead, 124; burn pro­
perty of the dead, 124
Savoy, obstructing return of dead in,
36
Saxo Grammaticus, Danish historian,
82
Scotland, North-East, barrier of
water used against ghosts in,
49
Scythians, the ancient, use barrier of
water after a death, 49
Semang, the, shift camp after a
death, 102
Serbia, precautions against becoming
a vampire in, 84
Shaman, 21 ; urine used to prevent
return of ghost of, 112, 113
Shan States, use of water after
funeral in, 46
Shans, the, of Burma, their pre­
cautions to prevent return of ghost,
102
Shuswap, the, drive away the dead,
21 ; obstruct return of dead, 34
Siam, precautions taken to prevent
return of ghost in, 102
Sick person, body mutilated, 80
Sickness attributed to the dead, 76,
91, 92
Sikkim, use of barrier of water and
fire against dead in, 54
Singhalese, the, use water as barrier
against ghosts, 45
Sivaji, Maratha leader, his fear of
ghost, 33
Skulls preserved, 9
Skungen Indians, the, of Vancouver
Island, remove body by special
opening, 113
Slave Coast, the, barrier of fire
against dead on, 60; Yoruba-
speaking peoples of, 125
Slavonians, South, the, use barrier of
fire against the dead, 62
Slavs, the, their belief in vampires,
86
SUndang, cloth in which a child is
carried, 98
Snow, line on, regarded as water
barrier, 109
Society Islands, the, precautions
taken to prevent return of ghost in,
10
1
Solomon Islands, the, property of
the dead destroyed in, 121 ; dead
chief’s fruit trees cut down in, 121
------ Islanders, the, their beliefs con­
cerning the dead, 9
Songish Indians, the, use water as* a
barrier against the dead, 46
Sophocles, Scholiast on, records case
of murderer maiming victim, 81
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Souls, dangerous, destroyed, 93, 94;
of dead go to Athikhi, 105
Spirits of the dead. See Dead, the
------ of the living imprisoned in pots
to prevent dreams, 106
Srah, spirit, 61
Star, falling, fear of, 80
Steinen, Prof, von den, on destruc­
tion of property of dead woman,
133
Stones inserted into mutilated body,
80
Subanos, the, of Mindanao, their
precautions to prevent return of
ghost, 101
Sudan, Western, chief’s body muti­
lated to prevent return of ghost in,
77
Sulka, the, of New Britain, their atti­
tude to the dead, 10 ; drive away
the dead, 10 ; destroy property of
the dead, 121
Survival. See Immortality
Sweepers, bodies of, buried face
downwards, 108; ghosts of,
dreaded, 108
Ta i te mauri, Ghost-Killing, 88,
89
Tahiti, water used as barrier against
ghosts in, 45
Tamanacs, the, cut down trees of the
dead, 131 ; their fear of the dead,
13
2
Tamanaques, the, of the Orinoco,
destroy property of the dead, 136 ;
cut down trees of the dead, 136
Tanoa, King of Ambau, 90
Tarahumare Indians, the, their use
of water as a barrier against the
dead, 47
Tarawa, families of, their attitude
towards the soul, 13
Tartars, the, use barrier of fire
against dead, 53
Taungthu, the, of Upper Burma, use
water as barrier against dead, 37 ;
tie up corpse to pre^fent return of
ghost, 66 \
Theal, Dr. G. McCall, on destruction
of property of the dead, 127
150
Thompson Indians, the, obstruct re
turn of dead, 35
Threshold, sacrifice of cow at, to pre­
vent return of ghost, n o
Tierra del Fuego, the Onas of, 135
Tiree, Island of, barricade against
ghost in, 116
Tisi, the dead prevented from re­
turning in, 30
Togoland, water sprinkled on grave
to prevent return of spirit in, 112 ;
natives of, drive away the dead, 19
Tonkin, precautions to obstruct re­
turn of dead in, 30
Tonquin, property of the dead
burned in, 124
Toradyas, the, of Central Celebes,
use water barrier against ghosts,
45, 50; believe that men can be­
come werewolves, 72
Tracks obscured, to confuse ghost,
114
Transvaal, Northern, killing the
ghost in, 93
Transylvania, barrier of water used
against ghosts in, 47
Trees of dead cut down, 121, 131,
136
Tschwis, the, use barrier of fire and
water against dead, 60
Tumbuka, the, of Nyasaland, use
barrier of fire against dead, 58 ;
take precautions to prevent return
of ghost, h i
Tungus, the, their efforts to prevent
return of the dead, 28
Tupi Indians, the, of Brazil, muti­
late dead to disable ghost, 71
Tupinambas, the, of Brazil, tie up
corpse to prevent return of ghost,
6
7
Turki tribes of Siberia, their belief
after a death, 15
Tying up, prevention of return of
dead by, 62-8, 101
Ucayale River, the, the Conibos
Indians of, 132
Uganda, killing the ghost in, 91
Ulysses, maiming of the slain Dolon
by, 82
INDEX
Ureparapara, ghost-driving at, 8
Urine used to prevent return of
ghost, 113
Vampire, treatment of, 87
Vampires, belief in, 83 ; precautions
against, 83 ; belief of Roumanians
concerning, 85 ; laying of, 86
Vancouver Island, the Skungen
Indians of, 113; property of the
dead destroyed in, 128
Village abandoned and destroyed
after a death, 135
Wajagga, the, of East Africa, take
precautions to prevent return of
ghost, n o
Wallachia, precautions to prevent a
man becoming a vampire in, 85
Wanderer-souls, destroyed, 93, 94
Water, barrier of, against spirits of the
dead, 36-40,47,50,55,62,102,104;
difficulty of ghosts in crossing, 39,
102 ; as barrier between living and
dead, 42, 109; use of, for purifi­
cation after funeral, 43 ; use of,
after funeral, to escape from ghost,
45 ; the best preservative against
death by dropsy, 50 ; sprinkled on
grave to prevent return of spirit,
112
Wawanga, the, of Kenya, burn body
of sick man, 77
Weeks, Rev. John H., on use of
water as barrier against dead, 38 ;
on use of barrier of fire against
Wejinecte man, killed by lightning,
body not mutilated, 79
Welsh malefactor, maiming of body
of, 82
Wends, the, of Geislitz, use barrier
of water against ghosts, 48
Werewolf, lime strewn on eyes of, 98
Werewolves, killed and corpse muti­
lated, 72 ; belief that men can be­
come, 72
Whajook tribe, the, of Western Aus­
tralia, tie up corpse to prevent re­
turn of ghost, 65
Whitehead, Mr., on rain-maker, 109
Wives of dead men killed, 121
Wonkonguru, the, Australian tribe,
break personal belongings of the
dead, 120
Yaguas, the, on the Amazon, destroy
property of the dead, 133
Yakut, the, use barrier of fire against
dead, 53
Yoruba-speaking peoples, the, of the
Slave Coast, burn property of the
dead, 125
Yukon, the lower, natives of, their
fear of the return of the shade,
their behaviour after a death, 20
Yule Island, natives of, drive away
the dead, 14
Yuracares, the, bury property of the
dead, 134; abandon house of
dead, 136
Zulus, the, personal articles buried
151
dead, 59
■i f
with dead by, 127
A go. JSl 0 .
/ / / / f
Cib&o 1N
0 . j
s? -S .3 .
B o o k N o . |
/ O
***L
WORKS BY SIR J. G. FRAZER
THE GOLDEN BOUGH
A STUDY IN MAGIC AND RELIGION
Third Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo.
Part I. The Magic Art and the Evolution of Kings. Two
volumes/ 25s.net.
II. Taboo and the Perils of the Soul. One volume. 12s. 6d.
net.
III. The Dying God. One volume. 12s. 6d. net.
IV. Adonis, Attis, Osiris. Two volumes. 25s. net.
V. Spirits of the Corn and of the Wild. Tw
o volumes.
25s. net.
VI. The Scapegoat. One volume. 12s. 6d. net.
VII. Balder the Beautiful: T he Fire-Festivals of Europe,
and the Doctrine of the External Soul. Tw
o
volumes. 25s. net.
VIII, (Vol. XII.) Bibliography and General Index. 25s. net.
THE GOLDEN BOUGH. A Study in Magic and Religion.
Abridged Edition. 8vo. 18s. net.
LEAVES FROM “THE GOLDEN BOUGH.” Culled
by Lady F r a ze r . With Illustrations by H. M. Br o c k . 8vo.
1os. 6d. net.
THE BELIEF IN IMMORTALITY AND THE WOR­
SHIP OF THE DEAD. 8vo.
Vol. I. The Belief among the Aborigines of Australia, the
Torres Straits Islands, New Guinea and Melanesia.
18s. net.
Vol. II, The Belief among the Polynesians. 18s. net.
Vol. III. The Belief among the Micronesians. 18s. net.
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD IN PRIMITIVE
RELIGION : Lectures. 8vo.
Vol. I. 1os. 6d. net.
Vol. II.
THE WORSHIP OF NATURE : The Worship of the
Sky, the Earth, and the Sun. 8vo. 25s. net.
MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD., LONDON
MYTHS OF THE ORIGIN OF FIRE. An Essay.
8vo. 12s. 6d. net.
FOLK-LORE IN THE OLD TESTAMENT. Studies
in Comparative Religion, Legend, and Law. Three vols. 8vo.
37s. 6d. net.
FOLK-LORE IN THE OLD TESTAMENT. Studies
in Comparative Religion, Legend, and Law. Abridged Edition.
8vo. 18s. net.
MAN, GOD, AND IMMORTALITY. Thoughts on
Human Progress. Passages chosen from the Writings of Sir James
George Frazer. Revised and Edited by the Author. 8vo.
15s. net.
THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE. A Plea for Superstition.
Second Edition, revised and enlarged, of “ Psyche’s Task” ; to
which is added “ The Scope of Social Anthropology.” 8vo.
6s. 6d. net.
PAUSANIAS’S DESCRIPTION OF GREECE. Trans­
lated with a Commentary, Illustrations, and Maps. Second
Edition. Six vols. 8vo. £ 6 : 6s. net.
STUDIES IN GREEK SCENERY, LEGEND AND
HISTORY. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d. net.
GRAECIA ANTIQUA. Maps and Plans to illustrate
Pausanias’s description of Greece. Compiled by Sir J. G. Frazer;
with explanatory text by Professor A. W. van Buren. 8v o .
25s. net.
THE FASTI OF OVID. Text, Translation, and Com­
mentary. Five vols. Illustrated. 8vo. £ 6 :6s. net.
THE GROWTH OF PLATO'S IDEAL THEORY. An
Essay. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
THE GORGON'S HEAD AND OTHER LITERARY
PIECES, With a Preface by Anatole France and a Portrait of
the Author from the BustbyAntoine Bourdelle. 8vo. 7s.6d. net.
GARNERED SHEAVES: Essays, Addresses, and Reviews.
8vo. 21s.net.
LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. Chosen and
Edited, with a Memoir and a few Notes, by Sir J. G. Frazer.
Two vols. Globe 8vo. 5s. net each.
A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SIR JAMES GEORGE
FRAZER. Compiled by T heodore Besterman. 8vo.
12s. 6d. net.
WORKS BY SIR J. G. FRAZER
MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD., LONDON
