{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1838__moody___a_complete_refutation_of_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"A Complete Refutation Of Astrology","mylang":"de"}
A COMPLETE
REFUTATION
or
ASTROLOGY;
CONSISTING PRINCIPALLY OF
& &exie& of iUtters,
WHICH APPEARED IN THE CHELTENHAM CHRONICLE,
IN REPLY TO THE ARGUMENTS OF
LIEUT. MORRISON AND OTHERS;
IN WHICH
ITS PRINCIPLES ARE PROVED TO BE UNPHILOSOPHICAL,
OPPOSED TO THE HAPPINESS OF MAN, AND
CONTRARY TO THE PRECEPTS AND DOCTRINES OF REVELATION :
WITH
NOTICES OF THE ROYAL NATIVITIES,
AND AN
INTRODUCTION,
CONTAINING A SKETCH OF THE ANCIENT AND MODERN HISTORY
OF THIS SYSTEM OF INIQUITY ;
ALSO
OBSERVATIONS ON THE WEATHER PROPHETS,
AND ANECDOTES OF SEVERAL ASTROLOGERS.
By T. H. MOODY,
Professor of Mathematics, andTTuthor of " Scrutator," &c.
CHELTENHAM:
PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM WIGHT,
at his theological library ;
SOLD IN LONDON BY HAMILTON, ADAMS, AND CO.
AND JAMES NISBET, AND CO.
1838.
Z + 2 3 -2-.£/
:
SEP 221913 J
4>
T. EAWLINOS,
flTTVILLE STREET, CHELTENHAM.
SUBSCRIBERS.
THIS WORK HAS THE SANCTION OF THE FOLLOWING CLERGYMEN
AND OENTBT :
Rev. Francis Close, a.m....
Rev. John Browne, ll.b...
Rev. W. R. Coxwell, a.m.
Rev. W. H. Hawkins, b.d.
Rev. J. Tucker, a.m.
Rev. T. Methuen
Rev. Sir R. Wolseley, Bart.
Rev. C. Winstanley, a.m.
Rev. John Brown
Rev. Jenkin Thomas
Rev. — Dodd
Rev. James Gill
Rev. Charles Rawlings ...
General Wardlaw
Mrs. General Wardlaw ...
Lieut. Gen. Sir R, Darling
Lady Darling
Rear Admiral Sir Robt. T.
Ricketts
Lieut. Colonel Crowder ...
Monson Villa
Pittvilk Lawn
Dowdeswell
Grammar School
Charlton
Wolseley Villa
St. George's Square
Sandford Lodge
Worcester
Dudley
St. Neofs
Lansdown Terrace
Lansdown Terrace
The Elms
St. Margaret's Terrace
SUBSCRIBERS.
Mrs. Colonel Crowder ...
Lieutenant Morrison, e.n.
Hon. Caroline Flower
jGneas Cannon, Esq. m.d. ...
C. W. Thomas, Esq. m.d.
— Turner, Esq. m.d.
Pearson Thompson, Esq.
Mrs. North
Miss North
Mrs, Grey
T. L. Coker, Esq
A. Rosenhagen, Esq.
John Kingdom, Esq,
W. M. Beetlestone, Esq....
T. Henney, Esq
Hugh O'Conner, Esq.
Edward Langworthy, Esq.
C. T. Cooke, Esq
S. H. Murley, Esq ..
Charles Fowler, Esq.
Miss Blount ,
Miss Finch
Miss Aldridge
Mr- Cornfield
fire.
St. Margaret's Terrace
Ireland
Crescent Terrace
Cambray Place
Albion House
Hatherley Court
Aban Court
Aban Court
Montpellier Parade
Lansdown Crescent
Promenade
Promenade
Pittville
Clarence House
Paris
Sherborne Place
Cambray Place
Portland House
Rodney Terrace
Chapel House
Ladies' School, Clifton
Ladies' School, Lansdown
Professor of Astronomy
PREFACE.
Of all the forms in which Superstition haunts the
mind, none, perhaps, has a more attractive and se
ducing influence than that of astrology. 4-dorned
with the radiance of heaven, she is viewed by the
eye of the visionary, as the celestial messenger of
human destiny; and the imagined connexion of
ethereal phenomena with mundane events, leads to
the conclusion, that some mysterious emanation from
the stars influences the career and habits of mortals,
and regulates every thing that transpires on our globe.
When these vain chimeras are received and cherished,
and when it is believed that the laws of this con
nexion have for ages been known and studied by the
iv PREFACE.
professors of the art, the conclusion seems inevi
table,—*that the leading events of every man's life
may almost with certainty be predicted; and the
sublimity of such attainments has an extraordinary
effect upon the imaginative faculty, which is dazzled
with the contemplation. Astrology is very flattering
to the pride and vanity of the human heart, for when
men are led to believe that all nature is ever con
cerned in what they are concerned, they rise in self-
importance ; and even their follies and vices appear
to be less odious than before, because they are then
considered to be the necessary result of planetary
agency ; these sentiments coincide with those of
Prior's heroine :
" She made it plain that human passion
Was ordered by predestination ;
That if weak women went astray,
Their stars were more in fault than they."
But every well-informed mind rejects such doctrine
with abhorrence, and perceives that if astrology were
true, man would be degraded in the scale of being :
PREFACE. v
he would not be a free agent ; and being overruled
in every thing by the stars of heaven, his best actions
would have no virtue, and his foulest atrocities no
vice ; for under such circumstances, no villains would
be found on the earth, but such as had been made so
by stellar influence. As this system of imposture
has lately been gaining ground in the British Empire,
it is hoped that the present work may, in some de
gree, be instrumental in checking its progress. The
author has not been able to procure any regular
refutation of astrology; but he believes the line of
argument adopted in the following pages to be, for
the most part, original. It will be seen that he has
made numerous quotations from the Volume of In
spiration to illustrate and enforce his sentiments re
specting astrology ; for if the Bible be a revelation
from heaven, as it most assuredly is, and if its sacred
pages reflect any light to guide the mind through the
difficulties of the inquiry before us, to neglect such
aid would he criminal, as its authority is decisive
wherever it is found to bear upon the question.
Every argument, therefore, derived from this source
v PREFACE.
will have its proper weight with all who are firm
believers in the Holy Scriptures. I write, not to
convince sceptics and infidels that astrology is an
absurd and impious art, and a diabolical delusion ;
for when the minds of men are so darkened by sin
that they deny the truth of God, it is of small mo
ment what else such characters may credit. It may
also be remarked that astrologers are accustomed,
in their writings, to appeal to the Divine Record as
furnishing an authority for their practice; it is,
therefore, incumbent on all who oppose them to
shew that the sacred Scriptures strictly prohibit
every kind of divination whatever. I now humbly
commend the work to the Divine blessing, hoping
that it may be a means of preserving the minds of
Englishmen from being enslaved by the seductive
arts of the astrological doctors.
T. H. MOODY.
7, Pobtlasd Street; August 22nd, 1838.
INTRODUCTION.
Ancient and Modern History of Astrology.
"ASTROLOGY IS TO ASTRONOMY WHIT SUPERSTITION 13 TO RELIGION,—
THE FOOLISH DAUGHTER OF A WISE MOTHER."—ROBINSON.
We have no authentic records of the origin of astrology,
but it is universally attributed to the Babylonians and
Chaldeans ; though it is certain that it must have been
early introduced into Egypt. The Egyptians believed
that if a child happened to be born when the first star of
Aries was in the ascendant, the star being then supposed
to have its greatest influence, he would then be very rich
in cattle ; but if he should come into the world when
Cancer was rising, he would meet with continued dis
appointments. They also considered that a nation would
be happy and prosperous whose king was born under
Libra, but be completely wretched if born under Scorpio :
Leo was to produce heroes ; and Virgo chastity. Among
the Egyptians, astronomy was principally cultivated by
nil INTRODUCTION.
their priests, who employed it to consolidate the empire
of superstition over which they presided.
Eudoxus, as we are informed by Cicero, rejected
the pretensions of the Chaldeans ; and Cicero himself
reasons powerfully against the stars having any influence
over the destinies of mankind. He argues from the very
remoteness of the planets, and asks, " What contagion
can reach us from a distance almost infinite?" Pliny
also says (Hist. Nat. vii. 49)—" Homer tells us that
Hector and Po'.ydamus were born on the same night,
men of such different fortunes. And every hour, in every
part of the world, are born lords and slaves, kings and
beggars." From the time of the conquest of Egypt, it is
certain that astrology was much cultivated at Rome, not-
withstanding several edicts of the senate. Tacitus says
of its professors, " It is a class of men which, in our city,
will always be prohibited, and will always exist." In the
philosophic dreams of the Greeks, we find allusions to
stellar influence. They discoursed of the influences or
effluxes [aizoppouxe] that proceeded from the stars ; and,
in the second century, the greater part of the world was
astrological ; and perhaps Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos con
tributed, in no small degree, to extend the doctrines of
the Babylonian superstition.
Astrology, also, was cultivated with great diligence
by the Arabians ; " Albumassar, of Balkh, in Khorasan,
INTRODUCTION. ix
who flourished in the ninth century, was a great astro
loger, and his work, ' De Magnis Conjunctionibus An-
norum Revolationibus ac eorum Perfectionibus,' was long
celebrated in Europe."
Aboazen Haley, who lived in the fourth century,
was the author of a considerable work upon the subject.
Astrology *lso;—has lor~agesi been held in great
esteem by the followers of Mohammed ; and this is not
surprising, as itsjSaracter of fatality sa well agrees with
their religious creed* The establishment of the Moors
in Spain, and the crusades, caused the introduction, or
the increased cultivation of the art among the descendants
of the barbarians, who destroyed the Roman empire. In
the middle ages, astrology, alchymy, and magic, were
assiduously cultivated ; and during the thirteenth and
fourteenth centuries, astrology was taught in the uni
versities of Italy, and every where throughout Europe ;
and multitudes believed in its principles. Although
this abominable art had been condemned by several
councils, yet Cardinal D' Ailly, who died in 1425, calcu
lated the nativity of the Saviour of the World ; Jerome
Cardan did the same, which, as Mr. Godwin observes,
was imputed to him as an impious undertaking, inasmuch
as it supposed the Creator of the world to be subject to
the influences of the stars. Another attempt of the kind
is to be found in the second volume of Dr. Sibly's Astro
X INTRODUCTION.
logy. These men " became vain in their imaginations,
and their foolish heart was darkened ; professing them
selves to be wise, they became fools." But these in
stances prove that astrologers may imagine coincidences
between the supposed influence of the planets and the
great events of the world, in a case where it is impossible
any could exist. And if a daring imagination will con
duct them through such a labyrinth of wickedness as this,
it will conduct them through any thing. As to Cardan,
his wretched history should be a warning to all mystics.
At the age of seventy five, he is said to have destroyed
himself to verify his own prediction.
The staple commodity from which the sons of the
Chaldeans derived their greatest profit, were comets and
eclipses ; the fearful tails of the former, and the appalling
phenomena of the latter, created in the minds of many,
terrible apprehensions respecting their nature, and the
effects they might produce. The astrology of comets
is said to have been recognised even by a Pope. In the
fifteenth century, when one of these awful strangers
visited our system, and its presence was supposed to have
assisted the success of the Turks against the Christians,
Calixtus the Third, felt himself insulted by the appear
ance ofthis herald of evil. Prayers were therefore offered
on the occasion day by day, and anathemas were pro
nounced against the unhallowed intruder : and so great
INTRODUCTION.
was the holy ire of the Roman Pontiff, that, without pity
or remorse, his Holiness, with all the solemnity of his
office, actually excommunicated the comet.
We are informed by the French historians that in
the time of Queen Catherine De Medici, astrology was
so much in fashion, that the stars were consulted on all
occasions. In the reigns of King Henry the Third
and Fourth of France, the predictions of astrologers
were the constant theme of conversation. On the night
previous to The assassination of Henry the Fourth, Fran
cisco Corvini, an Italian astrologer, was leaning upon his
balcony in Florence, and while gazing at the stars, he
suddenly exclaimed, " To-morrow one of the greatest
monarchs of Christendom will be slain" ; and the very
next day, it is said, the mortal stab was given by Ravaillac.
This, whether true or false, is no credit to astrology, for
according to the principles of the art, the mere contem
plation of the stars can accomplish nothing; but a figure
of the heavens with the planets' places taken from an
Ephemeris, is absolutely necessary to the making of any '
predictions. Henry the 4th, when very young, had been
carried to old Nostradamus, by Catherine De Medici, but
this astrological impostor, at the time of his assassination,
had been dead some years. He published at Lyons, seven
centuries of prophecies, in quatrains of French verse.
The obscurity of these predictions, together with the
XII INTRODUCTION.
confidence with which they were uttered, excited con
siderable attention, and it was not difficult to find real
events which seemed to have some faint correspondence
with those which he had darkly shadowed forth, in vague
and general terms. His success led him to add three
centuries more, which he dedicated to King Henry the
2nd ; and two additional centuries were added after his
death. This collection ofrhapsodies long continued to be
consulted as the oracular records of future ages.
The last of the French astrologers was Morin, who
was born a.d. 1583. He was instructed by Davis, a
Scotch professor, in the pretended art. In the year 1620,
upon the death of Sainclair, professor royal of mathematics,
he became his successor, and was urged by his friends to
pay his addresses to the professor's widow. He imme
diately consulted the stars, but found no encouragement
from them to marry ; and therefore he announced his
determination to remain a bachelor. Being, however,
repeatedly importuned upon the subject, and considering
that the lady was reputed rich, he was induced to alter '
his mind ; but so deliberate was he in preparing for his
first visit, no doubt paying his respects to the stars in
stead of the lady ; that " he knew nothing of her sickness
and death till, upon approaching her house, he found
that she was just going to be buried." This circumstance
had such an effect on poor Morin, that he formed a re-
INTRODUCTION. xiii
solution never to marry, and adhered to it all his life.
He had access to Cardinal Richelieu, who frequently
consulted him on affairs of importance. Cardinal Maza-
rin was also imposed on by his pretensions, and granted
him a pension of 2000 livres. Queen Christina of
Sweden, when at Paris, sent for the arch-knave, and
considered him the greatest astrologer in the world.
Bayle has given an account of the artful evasions he
employed to preserve his reputation with the credulous,
whenever any of his predictions were not fulfilled.
Morin, opposed by Gasendi, wrote a large work,
which employed him for thirty years, to explain and
illustrate the pretended science of judicial astrology.
After his death, this favourite work was published
at the Hague in 1661, entitled "Astrologica Gallica,"
with two epistles dedicatory ; the first was by the author
to Jesus Christ ! the other, by some anonymous hand,
to Louisa Mary de Gonzague, Queen of Poland, who
expended 2000 crowns on its publication. " Thus you
see," says Guy Patin, "how princes are imposed upon!
Had it been a good book, and useful to the public, no
person would have been found either to print it or to
defray the expense of its being sent into the world."
This dishonoured art was very early practised in
England ; but an astrologer once paid very dear for his
temerity in attempting to predict the death ofthe reigning
xiv INTRODUCTION.
sovereign. Edward the Confessor was informed by one
of the fraternity, that he had taken great pains " to pry
into the horoscope of his nativity, and found that his
Majesty would die in such a month." The king answered,
" I can go nearer to work, and can foretel thee the very
hour of thy death, which will be to morrow at two o'clock
precisely, so that thou canst not avoid it." The king
kept his word with the astrologer, for he commanded
that he should be tried, which he accordingly was, and
was found guilty, and executed.
The fame of the celebrated Dr. Dee, as an astro
loger, was so great, that Queen Elizabeth sent Robert
Dudley, her chief favourite, to consult him, that an au
spicious day might be chosen for her coronation. In
the early part of his life, he had sustained an eminent
part among the great and learned, and was honoured
by the patronage of Elizabeth. But his overweening
arrogance and self-conceit, brought a cloud over his
understanding, and he became a mystic and professed
to have an intercourse with the invisible world : the
wild chimeras respecting the philosopher's stone, also oc
cupied much of his time and attention ; and indeed, at
one time he appeared to have imagined himself possessed
of the wonderful secret. In 1584, he went to Poland :
he was accompanied by Edward Kelley, who pretended
to a great knowledge of alchemy, and who was also a
INTRODUCTION. XV
professed magician. This par nobile fratrum wandered
from place to place ; they preyed upon the credulity of
one eminent personageafter another ; but, however, some
times they were reduced to the greatest distress. At last
Dee became dead to all self-respect and moral distinctions ;
he walked in the vanity of his imagination, having ' his
understanding under a total eclipse." Whatever skill
Dee and Kelley might possess, the fame of their exploits
6pread far and wide ; so that in 1589, Dee was recalled
home by Queen Elizabeth. He immediately set off
from Trebona, and in great state came to England. He
had three coaches, with four horses to each, three loaded
waggons, and a guard of soldiers to protect his sacred
person. On his arrival he had an audience of the Queen
at Richmond, who very graciously received him. In the
reign of King James, he was but little regarded : he died
in 1608. Lilly speaks highly of his erudition, says that
he was Queen Elizabeth's intelligencer, and that he was
never so pleased as when he heard himself styled " most
excellent."
During the time of the civil wars, astrology won
derfully prevailed ; and the royalists as well as the
republicans, had their astrologers. Sir Walter Scott says,
the king on one side, and the Parliamentary leaders on
the other, were both equallycurious to know, and eager to
believe, what Lilly, Wharton, or Gadbury, had discovered
xvi INTRODUCTION.
from the heavens, touching the fortune of the strife.
On one occasion Lilly, and Booker, a brother astrologer,
were sent for, with a coach and four horses, to the head
quarters of Fairfax, at Windsor, towards the end of the
year 1647, when they told the General that they " were
confident that God would go along with him and his army,
till the great event for which they were ordained was
perfected ; which they hoped would be the conquering of
their and the Parliament's enemies, and a quiet settlement
and firm peace over the whole nation."
When Charles the First was confined in Hampton
Court, Lady Whorwood, with the King's consent, con
sulted Lilly respecting " what quarter of this nation he
might be most safe, and not be discovered until he himself
pleased." Lilly's advice on this occasion was notfollowed;
but when his Majesty was removed to Carisbrook Castle,
Lady Whorwood again paid him a/^isit, and Lilly here
says, " His Majesty laid his design-'to escape out of prison, '
by sawing the iron bars of his/chamber window ; a small
ship was provided, and anchored not far from the castle,
to bring him into Sussex ; horses were provided to carry
him so that he might be at the head of the army in Kent ;
and from thence to march immediately to London, where
thousands there would have armed for him. The Lady
Whorwood came to me, acquaints me herewith. I got
G. Farmer (who was a most ingenious locksmith, and
INTRODUCTION. xvii
dwelt in Bow lane) to make a saw to cut the iron bars in
sunder (I mean, to saw them) and aquafortis. His Ma
jesty, in a short time, did his work ; the bars gave liberty
for him to go out ; he was out with his body till he came
to his breast ; but his heart failing, he proceeded no far
ther. When this was discovered, he was narrowly looked
after, and no opportunity after that could be devised to
enlarge him."—Lilly also informs us that, in Cromwell's
protectorship, he wrote freely and satirically, and that all
the soldiers were his friends.
Cromwell, as well as Charles the 2d, had much faith
in astrology. The curious story of Cromwell's having
made a compact with the Devil, on the 3d of September,
1651, is too long to be here related. The battle of Wor
cester was fought on this day, when Charles's forces were
defeated, and it is well known that Cromwell died on that
day seven years. Echard, the historian, thus concludes
his narrative:—"How far Lindsey is to be believed, and
how far the story is to be accounted incredible, is left to
the reader's faith and judgment ; and not to any deter
mination of our own." In the time.of Lilly, the leading
practical astrologers were the vilest miscreants of the
community. Such were Evans, Poole, Humphries, Gad-
bury, Booker, and Wharton. Sir Walter Scott has the
following remarks respecting the astrologers of these
times: "There was no province of fraud which they
xviii INTRODUCTION.
did not practise ; they were scandalous as panders, and
as quacks, sold potions for the most unworthy purposes :
***** Dr. Lamb, patronized by the Duke of
Brunswick, (who, like other overgrown fanatics, was in
clined to cherish astrology), was, in 1646, pulled to pieces
in the city of London by the enraged populace. In the
villanous transaction of the poisoning of Sir Thomas
Overbury, in King James's time, much mention was
made of the art and skill of Dr. Forman, another pro
fessor of the same sort with Lamb, who was consulted
by the Countess of Essex, on the best mode of conducting
her guilty intrigue with the Earl of Somerset." Another
writer says, that most of these imposters had taken the
air in the pillory, and that others had conjured themselves
up to the gallows.
In the year 1653, " William Ramsey, Gentleman,"
published a work called " Astrologia Restaurata." The
benevolent object he had in view was, " To undeceive
his countrymen of such calumnies as are cast upon this
heavenly and chiefest study, merely through tradition and
envy, by the most inferior and rural of men—cobblers,
haymakers, and such trash." In his preface he endeavours
to shew, that all men are either fools or madmen ; he sa
tirizes all classes of the community ; and this too, because
all are better paid than astrologers, who are deemed sim
pletons. He is quite indignant that philosophers should
INTRODUCTION. xix
crouch " to illiterate curmudgeons for a meal's meat, or
a night's lodging." He protests that many of them de
served to be laughed at for their folly ; and that he himself
deserves this more than any other professor. Whether
" William Ramsey, Gent." had any real claims to this
pre-eminence, perhaps, may be seen from the following
quotation. Having shewn some of the excellent uses to
which " clearly, and beyond all controversy," a knowledge
of the stars may be applied :—William Ramsey says—
" It may help us to know the fitting times and seasons for
cutting the hair of our heads, and the nails of our hands
or feet ; for the administration of gargarisms or sneezings,
and such like; for hiring of servants, and for buying
four-footed beasts; for catching of thieves and male
factors ; for borrowing of money ; for purging the brain ;
for drawing choleric blood, &c. ; how to choose friends,
prove them, and keep them ; to foresee future accidents ;
to win at any game ; to know the love between two mar.
ried, or any other ; to tell why blackamoors are black ;
and tp know how it is that nobody finds the philosopher's
stone." Great and extraordinary as the talents of this
astrologer were, I do not find that they obtained him a
pension from the Government.
In 1691, Mr. John Chambers wrote an able work
against astrology, and lashed its professors with great se
verity. Mr. Christopher Knight, " the very quixote of
XX INTRODUCTION.
astrologers, arrayed in the enchanted armour of his oc
cult authors," published "a defence of judicial astrology,"
and in this work exhibited talents worthy of abetter cause.
He was replied to by Thomas Vicars, in his " Madness of
Astrologers ;" but the far-famed work is by Lilly, and en
tirely devoted to the adepts. " He defends nothing, for
this oracle delivers his dictum and details every event as
matters not questionable." At this period astrology had
gained an extraordinary ascendancy over the minds of
many, and so much so that Mr. Gatacre, of Rotherhithe,
a fine oriental scholar, wrote against Lilly and the delu
sions he so successfully propagated. Lilly, in his Anglicus,
annually attacked Gatacre, who died in July 1694. It so
happened that Lilly, in his Almanack for that year, had
written for the month of August—
" H&c in tumba jacet Presbyter et Nebulo."
Here in this tomb lies a Presbyter and a knave !
Upon this prophecy the author of Demonologia has the
following remarks :—" He (Lilly) had the impudence to
assert, that he had predicted Gatacre's death ! But the
truth is, it was an epitaph to the "lodgings to let ;" it stood
empty, ready for the first passenger to inhabit. Had any
other of this party of any eminence died in that month, it
would have been as appositely applied to him. But Lilly
was an exquisite rogue, and never at a fault. Having
INTRODUCTION. xxi
prophesied, in his Almanack for 1650, that the Parlia
ment stood upon a tottering foundation, when taken up
by a messenger during the night, he contrived to cancel
the page, printed off another, and shewed his copies before
the committee, assuring them that the others were none
of his own, but forged by his enemies."* Another writer
states respecting him, " If a scheme was set on foot to
rescue the King, or retrieve a stray trinket—to restore
the royal authority, or to make a frail damsel an honest
woman—to cure the nation of anarchy, or a lap-dog of a
surfeit, William Lilly was the oracle to be consulted."
The following remarks are from Sir Walter Scott's
Letters on Demonology :—" When Sir Richard Steele
set up the paper called the Guardian, he chose, under
the title of Nestor Ironside, to assume the character of
an astrologer, and issued predictions accordingly, one of
which, announcing the death of a person called Partridge,
once a shoemaker, but at the time the conductor of an
astrological almanack, led to a controversy, which was
supported with great humour by Swift and other wags.
I believe you will find that this, with Swift's elegy on the
same person, is one of the last occasions in which as
trology has afforded even a jest to the good people of
England."—(p. 350). Partridge, who resided near Moor-
• See page 82 for farther particulars.
INTRODUCTION.
field, seems even to have surpassed Ramsey in astrological
feats ; for among other things particularised in his adver
tisement, he professed to tell by the aspects of the Moon
" how many hours my Lady Kent's pudding requires."
This impostor was frequently severely lashed by Poor
Robin, in his almanack, who, in the motto to his title,
says—
" We use no weather-wise predictions.
Nor any such like airy fictions."
Poor Robin used to denominate the star-gazers of his
day ASS-TROLOGERS.
In Turkey, Arabia, Persia, and China, astrology has
for ages prevailed, and is still in repute and much prac
tised. The following extract is from " A Description of
the Empire of China, by P. G. B. Du Halde, Jesuit :"—
" Weak and superstitious people are mightily devoted to
those impostors, who seek to deceive by means of judicial
astrology, and pretend to foretel future events by the stars,
They distinguish the hours proper for every thing, not
unlike our Shepherd's Kalendar ; wherein is marked by
characters, the time to let blood, undertake a journey,
fell wood, sow, plant, &c. They point out the lucky
minute to ask a favour of the Emperor, to honour the
dead, offer sacrifice, marry, build houses, invite friends,
and every thing else relative to public and private affairs.
INTRODUCTION. xiHi .
And all this is observed so scrupulously, that they do
nothing contrary to the directions of the Kalendar, which
they consult as their oracle. The following is the manner
of prognosticating or casting a figure :—They take ten
characters, which they attribute to the year, each whereof
signifies one of the elements; for they reckon so many
as I have observed elsewhere. These characters they
combine in sixty different manners, with the names of the
twelve hours of the day. Then they consider the 28
constellations, which have every one a ruling planet ; and
from the properties of the element, the constellation and
planet mixed together, they form their conjecture con
cerning fortunate or unfortunate events. They have
whole volumes written about these trifles.
" When the missionaries were first offered the em
ployment of composing the Kalendar, they declined it,
at which the Emperor seemed surprised. ' How comes
this ?' said he to them, 'you have often told me, Charity
towards your neighbour was your motive for coming to
China ; and what I require of you is of the greatest im
portance to the public welfare; what reason then can you
have to refuse this office ?' " The Jesuits answered, that
they feared the ridiculous superstitions which were added
to the Calendar, might be imputed to them. ' That is
what I do not desire,' replied the Emperor, ' You shall
be excused from that part ; nor do Igive any more credit
xxiv. INTRODUCTION.
to those ridiculous whimsies than you ; I require nothing
of you, but what regards the Kalendar, and has relation
to astronomy.' Then they complied with the Emperor's
will, but made a public declaration, in which they not only
protested that they had no hand in those fooleries, but
that they absolutely condemned them ; because human ac
tions did in no respect depend on the influence of the
stars, but on the wisdom wherewith they were conducted.
The Emperor, Kanghi, who had too much good sense to
give in to such extravagances, approved much of their
explaining themselves in that manner."
Astrology, as I have already remarked, still prevails
to a considerable degree over the East. Lady Esther
Stanhope, Queen of Palmyra, is one of the most extra
ordinary women now living, and is a firm believer in the
influence of the stars. She is the daughter of the late
eccentric Earl of Stanhope, and left England in 1806, to
travel over Europe. When she visited Constantinople,
the glimpse of Asiatic manners and customs which she
there had, seems to have confirmed her love for every
thing oriental; which had long been the prevailing
sentiment of her romantic and enterprising mind. From
Constantinople she set out for Syria, but the ship was
wrecked on the coast of Caramania, and she lost all her
property. As soon as possible she proceeded to England,
collected the remains of her fortune, and again embarked
INTRODUCTION. xxv.
for the coast of Syria. She landed at Latakia (the an
cient Laodicea), and after visiting all the celebrated places
of the East, she finally settled on the mountains of Le
banon, where she still resides. About six years ago,
a visit was paid her by M. Lamartine ; Lady Esther then
appeared to be about fifty years of age ; she wore a white
turban, a long yellow cashmere shawl, and a Turkish robe
of white silk, under which was a second tunic of Persian
stuff, covered with flowers. " M. Lamartine had been
but a few minutes in Lady Esther's presence, when the
most remarkable feature in her character came into view
—her belief in the influence of the stars upon human
affairs ; and her supposition that she had discovered the
power of reading their language. * • * * Her creed
of divination, as shewn in the following sentence, appears
to be a compoundof Orientalism and Lavaterism ' There
is a science at present lost in Europe—I possess it—I read
it in the stars—we are all children of some one of those
celestial fires which presided at our birth ; and of which
the happy or malignant influence is written in our eyes, on
our forehead, in our fortunes, in the lines of our hands,
in the form of our feet, in our gesture, in our walk. I
have only seen you for a few minutes, yet you are known
to me as well as if I had lived an age with you.' • • •
After a conversation, in which she shewed the liveliest
powers of fancy, a black slave entered, prostrated himself
INTRODUCTION.
on the carpet, and she said—' Go, dinner is served ; dine
quickly, and return soon. I will study you, and endeavour
to see more clearly than in the first confusion of my ideas,
into your person and future destiny, through the stars.
As for me, I never eat with any one : I live abstemiously
—a little bread and fruit, when I feel hungry, are all I
take : but I must not subject my guest to such a regimen."
• • • • There is certainly much of deep interest
in the strange career of the new Queen of Palmyra, Lady
Esther Stanhope"—Chambers's Edinburgh Journal.
This anecdote of Lady Esther shews the danger of
allowing the imagination any ascendancy over the rea
soning powers ; and few things contribute more to this
than indolent seclusion. For man is born for activity ;
and the faculties of the mind must more or less suffer,
when the desert and the company of slaves are preferred
to polished and intellectual society.
In " Pinnock's Guide to Knowledge" (May 7, 1836),
is an excellent article against astrology, from which I give
the following extract :—" True it is that some of the
predictions which have been put forth, have been verified
by the event ; but this may always be traced to the nature
of the prophecy itself, and the sagacity of the person
who made it. It is by no means a difficult matter for
any person, even of common intellectual powers, and
some acuteness in discerning the 'signs of the times,'
INTRODUCTION. xxvii
to conjecture what will probably occur in the political
world, and so cautiously announce it, as not to commit
himself if his prophecy fails."
I doubt not that many things recorded of " second
sight' might be thus explained. That some visionaries
were tempted to believe they possessed it, is certain.
" Second sight," says Mr. Pennant, "is a power of seeing
images impressed on the organs of sight, by the power
of fancy ; or on the fancy, by the disordered spirits ope
rating on the mind. It is the faculty of seeing spectres
or visions, which represent an event actually passing at
a distance, or likely to happen on a future day. In 1771,
a gentleman, the last who was supposed to be possessed
of this faculty, had a boat at sea, on a tempestuous night,
and being anxious for his freight, suddenly started up,
and said his men would be drowned, for he had seen them
before him, with wet garments and dripping locks. The
event corresponded with his disordered fancy. And thus,
a distempered imagination, clouded with anxiety, may
make an impression on the spirits ; as persons troubled
and restless with indignation, see various forms and
figures, while they lie awake in bed."
\J There is no question that many create their fate by
^Jheir folly, and imagine it is not to be resisted. Walder^
stein, a learned German physician, is an extraordinary
instance of a perverted imagination. He was accustomed
xxviii INTRODUCTION.
to record his thoughts and feelings at the moment; and,
in many respects, he lost the power of self-government ;
he was the victim ofnervous excitement and apprehension,
and this to such a degree, that his case corresponded with
the sentiment ofa French writer—" Nous n'avons pasassez
de force, pour suivre notre raison." Much, however, that
is recorded of Walderstein, I believe to be in a great
measure the effect of the temptations of the Prince of
Darkness, who is ever endeavouring to make mankind
wretched and miserable : and, in proportion as we comply
with his suggestions, we shall suffer for our folly ; it is
therefore written, "Give not place unto the Devil."
The following remarks are from Mrs. Hannah More's
Tawny Rachel :—" Sally was ignorant and superstitious.
She delighted in dream books, and had consulted all the
cunning women in the country to tell her whether two
moles on her cheek, denoted that she was to have two
husbands, or only two children. If, in going to church,
she found an old horseshoe, she was sure that would be
a lucky week. She never made a black pudding without
borrowing one of the parson's old wigs, to hang in the
chimney, firmly believing there were no other means to
preserve them from bursting. She would never go to
bed on Midsummer eve, without sticking up in her room,
the well-known plant called Midsummer-men, as the
bending of the leaves to the right or to the left, would
INTRODUCTION. xxix.
never fail to tell her whether Jacob, her lover, was true
or false. She would rather go five miles about than pass
a churchyard at night; she would rather have gone with
her gown open, than have taken a pin of an old woman,
for fear of being bewitched. Poor Sally had so many
unlucky days in her calendar, that a large portion of her
time became of little use, because on these days, she did
not dare set about any new work. And she would have
refused the best offer in the country, if made to her on a
Friday, which she thought so unlucky a day, that she
often said, what a pity it was that there was any Friday
in the week I"—It is a fact, that even now there are men,
moving in the higher circles of society, who are even
more ridiculously superstitious than poor Sally A gen
tleman at a gaming table will, upon a succession of losses,
even change his chair; or politely request his friend, who
has been sometime sitting near him, to remove further
off. 0 what fools" the Devil makes of men, when they
depart from the sacred dictates of urisdom.
" Man, and man only rejects her sacred rules ;
Who from the end of their creation fly,
And deviate into misery,
As if the liberty to act like fools
Were the chief causelbat Heaven had made them free."
Pomfret.
A pamphlet has recently been published in Chelten
ham, the title of which is—" The Nativity of her Most
xxx INTRODUCTION. ' (
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, by G. T. F. Smith,
Philomath." The author, at page 7, gives an explanation
of "thepeculiar properties of each planetary orb, as given
in " Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos." We are told that Mars
causes heat and dryness, because he is near the Sun ;* and
that the Moon generates moisture, because she is near the
Earth. At page 8, Saturn is declared to be "a malefic
or causer of evil," because of his excess of cold; and that
Mars is so too, on account of his excess of heat ;" so that
the one is too far from the Sun to benefit mankind, and
the other too near him. However, to console us under
these untoward circumstances, Jupiter and Venus are
pronounced to be " causers of good," because heat and
moisture abound in these orbs. But, as Jupiter is further
from the Sun and Earth than Mars, and Venus nearer, it
is somewhat difficult to account for the physical nature of
these planets. So far, however, the Sun seems to be
recognised almost as the primum mobile of the system,
as it regards planetary influence ; we are therefore sur
prised afterward to find, that the Sun himself can do little
• In the time of Ptolemy, the Earth was supposed to be the
the centre of our system ; and the Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun,
liars, Jupiter, aud Saturn, to revolve round him, in the order here
mentioned. When it was discovered that the Sun was the centre
of the system, and that the Earth was merely one ofthe revolving
planets, astrology received a blow, the effect of which it has
never recovered.
INTRODUCTION. xxxi
or nothing, and that he only produces good or evil, ac
cording to the nature of the planet with which he may
happen "to be connected." Mr. Smith considers pla
netary influence to be simply either good or evil ; but he
does not pretend to discover the precise nature of either ;
therefore virtually disclaims the predicting of positive
and distinct events. The regular professors of astrology
will not thank him for this moderation ; for he says, " I
will not pretend to be correct upon the extreme minutia;
but only upon the general influence." Mr. Smith has for
many years studied astrology, and well understands it ;
but he evidently, in this publication, has nearlyabandoned
the most curious part of the art. To illustrate his sen
timents, he notices an arc of direction in her Majesty's
nativity [the Moon to the square of Saturn] which he
supposes will be productive of evil, and has the following
remarks :—" Probably our shipping interests may suffer
at this period, with trouble to the community at large,
losses, and political discontent to the country : it may
occasion sickness to her Majesty," &c. &c. Here we
have sufficient scope both for operation and fulfilment ;
and if all astrologers would but regulate their pre
dictions upon these principles, they would generally have
them accomplished, whether good or evil, for human life
is chequered with both. But, however, notwithstanding
the general nature of the principles of Mr. Smith's system
xxxii INTRODUCTION.
for prediction, he has ventured to give a hint as to the
time of the Queen's mabbiage ; but in case her Majesty
should not be disposed to marry at the time he has
named [19 years and 11 months], a loop hole is pro
vided a for escape ; for he adds, "independently of such
an occurrence, its general tendency is to promote felicity
and honours—a period of much happiness and distinction
to our royal native."—In justice to the author, I must
observe that he does not make a trade of the art, and
that he is to be considered only as an astrological amateur.
REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY,
LETTER I.
Sir
Some time ago, I received a challenge from Lieut.
Morrison, to discuss " The truth or falsehood of
Astrology," and I have, in consequence, during the
last month, met that gentleman, at the Athenaeum,
four times upon this subject; and trusting, that the
arguments I there produced against this pretended
science were sufficient to satisfy any unprejudiced
raind, that astrology is not only an airy phantom of
the imagination, but that its practice is a great evil
B
2 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
to the community, and extremely offensive to the
Most High; and being desirous of giving my senti
ments a more extended circulation, I propose sending
you a series of letters upon the subject, hoping that
they may prove interesting to your readers, and be
a means of promoting "the cause of God and truth,"
and, consequently, of diminishing the quantum of
moral evil in our land.
During the last twenty years, several new astro
logical works have appeared, and the high tone of
confidence adopted in some of them is truly remark
able. The most learned and eminent men are chal
lenged to discussion, and a sovereign contempt is
expressed for all opponents. In the preface of-Zad-
kiel's Almanac for 1836, is the following sentence :
" I again invite Dr. Brewster, Dr. O. Gregory, or Sir
John Herschel, who have spoken evil of astrology,
and denied its truths, to come forward and disprove
them." This reminds me of Johanna Southcote's
challenging the Bishop of London to meet her in
theological argument as to the truth of her wretched
pretensions ; in both cases I suppose the parties chal
lenged could not forbear smiling at the determined
zeal of folly, unless pity for its victims suppressed
the emotion.
In the Free Press, October 31, is an advertise
ment from the Gloucestershire Astrological Society,
' ETTER I. 3
offering lOOOf. to any person or persons, who shall
prove that the principles of astrology are not founded
on truth ; which sum is to be paid by Philip Wood,
who, it appears, is a professor of the " Divine and
Celestial Sciences, in accordance with Scripture,
reason, and the mathematics." This modest gen
tleman then announces his terms for the calculation
of nativities, horary questions, &c. He also has
" Celestial articles, viz. : talismans lamens, vigils,
amulets, prepared according to the genuineprinciples
of Divine and celestial magic, for the removal or
the mitigation of the malignant influences of the
heavenly bodies, fyc." It is deeply to be regretted
that in a Christian land, such an advertisement
should be permitted to disgrace the columns of a
journal. That astrology and magic have been ge
nerally more or less connected, we have abundant
evidence to prove ; but it is to the former art I am to
direct my attention.—We live in a world of error,
ignorance, and delusion, and we are informed by an
inspired writer, that " It is not in man that walketh
to direct his steps" (Jer. x.23) ; and as we "know
not what shall be on the morrow" (James iv. 14),
it is written " Boast not thyself of to-morrow, for
thou knowest not what aday may bringforth" (Prov.
xxvii. 1). But so eager is man to discover what a
gracious Providence has wisely concealed, that he
b2
4 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
will search heaven and earth to gratify his unhallowed
propensity ; but I exclaim with Pope,
"O blindness to the future, kindly given,
That each may fill the circle marked by Heaven !"
But many, deaf to the voice both of Divine and hu
man admonition, endeavour to draw aside the curtain
between them and the future, and pry into the hid
den councils of heaven ; and so eager are they in the
vain pursuit of forbidden knowledge, that their ears
are open to the voice of a vagrant gipsey, or the
idle tale of an old washerwoman, who, from the
dregs of an empty teacup, attempts to foretel what
shall be hereafter. There is, perhaps, scarcely any
object in nature, which has not, at some period or
another, been employed as a means of divination.*
The history of all ancient heathen nations proves
them to have been immersed in superstition ; nor
were even the polished states of Greece and Rome
exempt. In Greece itself, several hundred oracles
were established; and there was scarcely a temple
to be found, the priests of which did not pretend to
the art of divination ; and for this they had very
powerful reasons, as no queries could be put to them
before costly offerings were presented; and from the
unbounded credulity of the ancient heathens, arose
• Appendix, No. 1.
LETTER I. 5
that mighty fabric of superstition which ruled the
greater part ofthe world for centuries. Dreams, too,
were considered as entitled to peculiar attention.
Some of their deities were supposed to rove through
the air, and dispense nocturnal visions among the
inhabitants of the earth ; and they who desired pro
phetic visitations, were careful to observe a peculiar
diet for that purpose. Among the Romans, the au
gurs derived tokens of futurity from thunder, light
ning, and the singing and flight of birds, from the
eating of chickens, from quadrupeds, and uncommon
accidents called dirce. By some, future events were
prognosticated by the drawing of lots ; by others,
from the opening of any book at random, and con
jectures were formed from the meaning of the first line
or passage which happened to be turned up. Hence
we read of the Sortes Virgiliance, of the Sortes
Homericce ; and also in the early Christian ages, of
the Sortes Sanctorum ; so that the Bible itself was
employed for the purposes of divination ; and this
awful superstition was forbidden by several councils.
The Haruspices examined the entrails of beasts, after
they were sacrificed, and from them derived omens
of futurity, and also from the flame, smoke, and
other accompanying circumstances. Even ants, bees,
snakes, and serpents, were all supposed to have a
voice for the future. Those who foretold events by
8 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
contemplating the stars were generally termed astro-
logi. But are things much better in our days ? Has
the sun of Christianity entirely dissipated the vapour
of superstition from our land? Are not cards, and
winding sheets of tallow—flaming purses and coffins,
starting from the fire—the breaking of looking
glasses, &c. still thought to speak of things to come?
Even a dog cannot howl, a pig cross our path, or a
black cat come into a house, but something extra
ordinary must occur. So it was among the ancient
heathens :
" Obscenique canes, importunaeque volucres
Signa dabant."—Geo. lib. i.
But if the earth was so prolific in its intima
tions respecting the future, how much more the
heavens which encircle the earth ; and accordingly,
comets and eclipses have always been deemed har
bingers of some direful calamity to man ;* butwas it
ever designed that the contemplation of the heavens
should create terror in the heart ? No, but that the
wonders written there should call forth emotions of
love and gratitude to the Great Author of all. The
heavens have no frown, no evil aspects, but for those
who rebel against the heavens. Iu the eighth psalm,
David says, " When I consider the heavens, the work
• Appendix, No.2.
LETTER I. 7
of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou
hast ordained, what is man that thou art mindful of
him, or the son of man that thou viaitest him ?" The
effect upon the mind of the inspired monarch, was
the kind and gracious care of the bountiful Creator
for hi3 great family below. It is written, that " God
is love." Did he then create the heavens to lour
upon the children of men : to pour down evil in
fluences to distress them ? No; when we gaze upon
the glorious expanse above—the triumphal arch of
God's greatness—we are assured that he who made
those luminaries, made them to shine upon man, and
not to frown upon him ; and when he gave his Son
to die for a lost world, did he not give a rainbow of
promise of fair and beautiful weather to all who
would believe on him ? His frown is reserved only
for the rebellious—the incorrigibly wicked; and his
perpetual smile rests upon all those who love and
fear him. The sun and moon, which God cre
ated to rule the day, were supposed by the ancient
heathens to preside over the fortunes of men, and
the stars and the planets were imagined to have a
powerful control over the affairs of this nether world ;
so that at last arose a class of professors, who de
clared that they could not only read in the heavens
the voice of the Great Governor respecting the times
and the seasons, but even his fiat respecting the fates
8 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
of individuals, and the rise and fall of empires.
But who made them prophets ? Who gave them the
key of heaven ? Who imparted to them the know
ledge of God's mysteries ? Let the professors of this
art reflect. When our Lord was asked by his dis
ciples, when he would restore the kingdom to Israel,
he replied, "It is not for you to know the times and
the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own
power." But an astrologer would have erected a
figure of the heavens for the precise time, when the
question was put, and the heavens would, upon his
principles, have furnished a ready answer to the
presumptuous enquiry.—But the times and the sea
sons the Father hath put in his own power, and
neither angel, man, nor devil, can break the seal of
the volume of God's purposes, and predict what
shall come to pass. -
Among the most distinguished professors of the
art, were the ancient Chaldeans, of whose skill we
shall take due notice in the proper place. With
us, ancient observations are supposed to afford sub
stantial ground for modern predictions ; for who will
affirm that the studies of the moderns alone will
furnish sufficient data for prophetic anticipations;
for when we consider the endless diversified circum
stances of human existence, the ever-varying confi
gurations of the celestial luminaries ; the shortness
LETTER I. 9
of human life, and the consequent limited period for
individual observation, we are assured that the only
tenable ground that could possibly be assumed, would
be an uninterrupted course of observations from
the period of the Chaldeans, down to the present
time, and conducted upon the same identical prin
ciples. Whether the astrologer has such ground
shall be seen hereafter ; that he professes to have it
I shall show—that he has it not, I shall demonstrate ;
and here I must observe, that the astrologer not only un
dertakes to satisfy us respecting what aday may bring
forth—what the morrow will produce, but even what
distant years shall accomplish. Now a system, which
makes such a demand on human belief, and which,
when its principles are adopted, exercises so powerful
a dominion over the mind, ought to be based on the
sound deductions of reason, and verified by a plain
and unequivocal experience. But that the scheme
of astrology rests upon no foundation of rational
argument ; that its bold conclusions are not borne
out by accredited facts ; and that, in its principles,
it is contrary to Divine Revelation, I trust, I shall
be able to establish. Science flees not from the
scrutiny of reason, but goes hand in hand with her
at every step ; religion shuns her not as a companion,
but courts her closest investigation. It is the as
trologer alone, who would desert her guidance,
10 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and lead us to trust solely to that of experience.
Lieut. Morrison, in his grammar, says, (see Zad-
kiel's Grammar of Astrology, p. viii.) that his work
will be peculiarly acceptable " to those who think
EXPERIENCE a safer guide than REASON in natural
philosophy." But if our experience be not constantly
brought to the test of reason, we shall ultimately find,
that we have been following a will-with-a-wisp, and
may make the discovery when it has conducted us to
some filthy marsb, and we are perishing through
our ignorance and folly. When we gaze upon the
starry heavens, we are informed, that there the fates
ofmen are written—there the destiniesof nations are
inscribed ; and, in connection with this subject, I shall
select a paragraph from the Grammar already noticed,
as a specimen of the awful daring of superstition.
" If the present haughty style of declaiming against a science
which the greatest men have taken a pride to cultivate in all ages
and all countries, should, by this endeavour to open a clear path to
itsexamination,receive a check, such as the poweroftruth onlycan
offer to the headstrong- course of prejudice, it will not have been
written in vain ; andifthe cause of truth should thereby be assisted,
either through public demonstration, by the testof experiment, of
the utter fallacy of the doctrines of astrology, oron the other hand,
by the convictionofthe honestportionofmankind that the Almighty
does indeed choose the heavenly bodiesas the instruments of hiswill,
in bringing about the ends of Providence; this little work will
very well bear the lash of critics, whose pride will not believe that
' there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of
in their philosophy.' "
LETTER I. 11
Our modern philosophers are no dreamers, but
are awake to the principles of sound science. But
if for a moment, we should suppose the stars and
their configurations to be the arranged means by
which the ends of Providence are administered, I
again ask where did the astrologer obtain the key of
the celestial cabinet, to disclose the mysterious sym
bols—to lay open the hieroglyphical representations
of man's destiny? Of the myriads of people scat
tered over the globe, from age to age, how many have
had their nativities calculated? And, with regard
to atmospherical astrology, have the ever-varying
features of climate been observed constantly to tally
with the supposed indications above ? Certainly no
astrologer has ever pretended to have received a re
velation of these things. fTne truth is, that some
looking at Mars, found him red ; others, glancing at
Venus, perceived she was fair ; the one must there
fore be connected with war and bloodshed, and the
other with all that i3 attractive in human nature,^
But who does not here perceive the puny intellect of
a worm of the dust, peering after what is infinitely
beyond his reach—attempting to grasp the councils
of the Most High—and to interpret the will of Hea
ven by his own wayward fancies. In the fables of
Phocdrus is one, in which a frog is represented as
envying the great bulk of the ox, and very desirous
12 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
that her stature should equal his ; and for this pur
pose she puffed and biowed, and strained and swelled,
till at last she positively burst herself.
" dum vult validius
Inflare sese rupto jacuit corpore."
In my next I intend to comment upon some of the
precious principles of the astrological art, a science
falsely so called.
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
November 24lh, 1835.
LETTER II.
Sir,
The reason why I have not confined my arguments
against astrology to the precincts of the Athenaeum,
but have availed myself of your respectable journal,
as a more extensive means of communication, are
because I have been informed by two gentlemen,
well known to Lieut. Morrison, that the minds of
several persons in Cheltenham have been rendered
unhappy by astrological predictions, and because the
works of that gentleman are publicly vended in
our town and other parts of England. At the end
of Zadkiel's Almanac for 1836, is the following
notice :
" Individuals desiring to become acquainted with any branch
of astrology, may receive instructions from the author, by address
ing him by letter only, post paid, as follows:—' Zadkiel, care of
Mr. Denley, bookseller, Catherine street, Strand, London.' The
terms for a sufficient number of lessons to acquire the art of cal
culatingnativities are 10/. ; for a single lesson in any branch ofthe
science, 1/.; for preparing a figure, 2(.; and bringing up the di
rections through life, 5/."
14 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
At the conclusion of the Horoscope for 1834,
we have another announcement :
'* Persons wishing to consult the editor, may direct as follows :
—' To Zadkiel, care of Mr. Hyde, Post Office, Cheltenham.'
Letters must be postpaid. N.B. Nativities cannot be calculated,
unless the time and place of birth be stated, and the period of
some remarkable events of life be mentioned, to correct the esti
mated time. Note. The editor will publish an edition of Lilly's
Astrology in February, 1835 ; and the Astrological Tables in a
few days."
It is probable Lieutenant Morrison may consider
that the sale of his works, and his practice as an as
trological professor, are beneficial to the community ;
but, as I widely differ from him on this subject, and
think that both are productive of considerable evil,
I am desirous that my refutation of this presumptuous
art may have all the publicity possible ; and I deeply
regret that the talents of this gentleman, which are
very considerable, are notembarked in abetter cause.
Among the many claims which astrology is
thought to have, by its fond adherents, to public
patronage, is its extreme antiquity; its professors
would have us suppose, that nothing in the shape of
solid objection had ever been offered to its principles
by the ancients; and that all opposition to their
celestial chimeras is comparatively modern. This is
intimated in the Grammar of Astrology, already
LETTER II. 15
noticed, and more expressly stated in the Horoscope
of 1834, " edited by Zadkiel, Author of the Gram
mar of Astrology."—At page 131 is the following
remark :
" We are quite certain that the prejudice against astrology
owe$ its origin chiefly to the cant and hypocrisy of the Puritans
in the time of Cromwell."
This is a fine specimen of astrological certainty :
but, upon looking through the mist of time—passing
to a distant age, I find an illustrious Roman raising
his honoured voice against the superstition. Nearly
two thousand years ago, the great Cicero poured forth
the'powers ofhis mighty mind againstthe growing evil.
Are the objections but of yesterday ? See the third
volume of his works, where he commences a course
of close consecutive argument, conclusive against
the principles of astrology. "Ad Chaldasorurn,
monstra veniamus, &c." " O delirationem incredi-
bilem, &c."* Yet, in the Horoscope (p. 13,) Cicero,
Pliny, Horace, &c. are claimed as authorities for the
art ; and, at page 143, these great men, with several
others, are again mentioned as its supporters, and in
this place the learned writer mentions Cicero and
Tully as two distinct persons ! I lay no great stress
upon heathen authority, but I am desirous to rescue
• Appendix, No. 3.
16 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
the reputation ofthese eminent writers from the odium
of astrological eulogy, to dissipate the loathsome fog
that clouds their memories in the Horoscope, and to
deprive the astrologer of the sanction of such names.
"Tu ne qussieris (scire nefas) quern mihi, quern tibi
Finem DI dederint, Leuconoe ; nee Babylonios
Tentaris numcros, ut melius, quidquid erit pati."
Hon. Od. 11.
That is — "Seek not, Leuconoe, to inform yourself
what end the Gods have given me or you ; this curi
osity is forbidden ; and consult not the calculations of
the Babylonians," &c.
Or according to Francis—
" Strive not Leuconoe, to pry
Into the secret will of fate ;
Nor impious magic vainly try,
To know our lives' uncertain date."
Persius also, in his sixth satire, says—
———— " geminos horoscope varo
Producis genio," &c.
" For men ofdifferent inclinations are,
Though born, perhaps, beneath one common star ;
In minds and manners, twins opposed we see
In the same sign, almost the same degree."
Juvenal, too, ridicules astrological folly in his
sixth satire—
" Chaldoeis sed major erit fiducia : quidquid
Dixerit astrologus, &c."
LETTER II. 17
" More credit yet is to Chaldeans jriven,
What they foretel is deemed the voice from heaven j
Their answers, as from Hammon's altar come,
Since now the Delphian oracles are dumb.
And mankind, ignorant of a future fate,
Believe what fond astrologers relate."
Pliny also declares (Proem, lib. xxx.) that the
art is founded on fraud and imposture—"fraudulen-
tissima artium."
It is pleasing to perceive that, in the dark period
of heathen superstition, such men were mercifully
raised up to protest against astrological evils ; and if
we come to modern times, we find a host of worthies
pouring contempt on the predictions of astrology.
There is not an encyclopaedia—there is not a diction
ary—not any book of general literature, which has
not reprobated this boasted science ; and, be it re
membered, that the Christian clergy, our authorised
teachers, under God, have pronounced astrology to
be a delusion of the Devil. Itis true thata few weak
and eccentric minds have sometimes been ensnared,*
but the Church of Christ—those who have been
taught of God—have uniformly opposed astrology
as an impious art, destructive of the peace of mankind
in this world, and of their eternal interests in another.
Mons. Rollin, in the second volume of his Ancient
History, has given the astrologers a very severe cas-
• Appendix, No. 4.
c
18 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
ligation, and quoted some high authorities against
them. He there says :
" Modern writers, and among others, two of our greatest phi
losophers, Gassendi and Rohault, have inveighed against the folly
of that pretended science with the same energy, and have demon
strated it to be equally void of principle and experience."
I now proceed directly to the argument—to scru
tinize the foundations of astrology—to examine the
principles upon which it is reared, and shall clearly
prove " what stuff these dreams are made of."
Sheridan, in one of his poems, says that he had long
searched the book of nature for some striking object
to which he might compare the female character, and
at last he fixed upon a cloud. He runs the parallel
through many stanzas, in one of which is the
following couplet :
" The clouds build castles in the air,
A thing peculiar to the fair."
Now I think that here the poet was in error; and
am certain that there are some of the male sex who
have erected larger edifices there than ever the ladies
did.—Certain influences are said to descend from the
starry heavens, which in a great measure regulate
every thing that takes place on earth. I ask for an
explanation of the modus operandi. At page 15 of
the Horoscope, are the following remarks :
"The sceptic will ask how is it possible thatthese planets can,
at suchadistance, affectthe health ofanyperson born onthe globe !
LETTER II. 19
The old astrologers supposed that it was by means of their light,
which, as the colours of the planets differ, may be thought to be
of a different nature. But we are more inclined to believe, that
that fine and imperceptible fluid which shews itselfin the magnet,
and exists under the genuine name of electricity, extends over all
nature, and may be changed by every change of position of the
planets, and so may act on the fcetus and the new-born babe by
invisible means. And that, like as the electricity of the air is
diminished, and that body becomes heavier on the appearance of
cholera morbus, so may its electricity, by the rising or setting of
the planets, be quite sufficient to act on fluids of the embryo child
and the infant. Yet how can this do more than affect the health of
the child ? How can it act so as to cause a gift or inheritance to
fall to the child at any future moment ? We must here reply in the
phrase which the great Galileo declared it was so difficult for phi
losophers to pronounce—' We do not know.' "
Here we have much imagined, but nothing proved.
But is this writer content to stop here? No: he
then adds, " We have our notions however," &c.
Notions! No doubt of it—where shall we find an
astrologer without them ? I am tired of quoting such
wildering absurdity, but think it right to give a few
specimensof the reasoning of these would-be philoso
phers. Well, what are these notions? Whatarethese
sublime discoveries? Hear the professor himself :
" We think then, that the situation of the planets in other peo
ple's nativities may so sympathise [this word in italics] with those
in the new-born infant's, that at a particular period, owing to the
similarity in the various nativities, the planets may come to be in
the same place in the zodiac, and so cause mutual good will and
benefits to be conferred by the one on the other !"
c2
20 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
Behold a vain worm ! thus daring to reason re
specting the works of the incomprehensible Jehovah,
whose ways are past finding out. O, how much
better it is to emulate the piety of David, who says
(Psalm cxxxi.), " Lord, my heart is not haughty,
nor mine eyes lofty, neither do I exercise myself in
great matters, or in things too high for me." I can
only compare the airy fabric of this writer to the
work of the spider:
" It spins a flimsy web, its slender store.
And labours till it clouds itself all o'er."
The astrologer then supposes that some fine subtle
fluid is the great agent by which the affairs of the
universe are regulated, and that its particles are ever
varying, according to the relative changes of the
heavenly bodies, to suit the fortunes of the world.
Now, whether astrological influence proceed directly
from the heavens, or be conveyed from them only
through the medium of a fluid, is of no consequence
to my argument: it appears that the stars are the
source of it, and that this influence emanates not
from mere points of an imaginary circle, but from
the stars themselves. This is not only asserted
bythe old astrologers, but also by those of modern
notoriety ; it is further confirmed by the list of certain
fixed stars, given in astrological books, which are
LETTER II. 21
said to have a powerful effect on the inhabitants
of the earth.—It has been affirmed that astrology is
not a science of imagination, but of observation. I
shall prove the direct contrary ; and now present my
readers with some extracts from the Grammar of
Lieutenant Morrison :
" Aries.—This sign produces adry lean body, middle stature,
strong limbs, large bones, long and meagre face, sharpsight, neck
rather long and scraggy, dark eyebrows, swarthy complexion, hair
reddish and wiry—disposition angry and violent as the ram.
" Tadevs.—A short, full, well set person, full face and eyes,
thick neck and lips, wide nose and mouth, swarthy shining face ;
a short, thick, broad hand; dark, harsh, and generally curling
hair—given to eating, unfeeling, melancholy, and slow to anger,
but when enraged, furious as the bull.
" Gemini.—A tall, upright, well-made body, &c.—said to
beget or bear twins.
" Scobpio.—Thick, well-set, middle-sized person, &c.—de
ceitful as the scorpion.
" Capricorn.—Capricious as the goat.
" Pisces.—Disposition indolent, and too often given to drink
like the fishes."
He who created the stars is of purer eyes than
to behold iniquity, and therefore never could have
created such influences as these. What ! can that
God, whose " law is holy, juit, andgood," and who
is " holy in all his works," create laws to make his
creatures angry and violent as the ram—given to
eating, unfeeling, melancholy, and furious as the
hull—deceitful as the scorpion—capricious as the
22 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
goat— and given to drink like fishes? The astro
loger affirms it may be so ; he contends that God
is the author of evil, charges his Maker with iniquity,
and prates about mysteries in the Divine government.
I admit that there are mysteries in the government
of God, and it would be well if vain men would not
attempt to search them out ; but I contend that they
are such as in every respect harmonize with the
holiness of the Lord. "Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord
of Hosts : the whole earth is full of his glory." (Isa.
vi. 3.) Oh ! the awful daring of the astrologer, to
charge upon the Majesty of the skies, the creation of
such influences as these ! Is this the way in which
the Great God governs the world ? The astrologer
says it is. Will he affirm this at the day ofjudgment?
He now says (Gram. p. 15) " If the moon be afflicted,
the native will be idle, and given to drinking, glut
tony, and debauchery. When evil aspects are found
between the Moon, Mars, and Mercury, the native
is inclined to dishonesty." What ! will He who
says, "Thoushalt not commit adultery,"—"Thou
shalt not steal," send from his heaven a moral
pestilence, to urge men on to acts of debauchery and
theft?—But I will tell the abettors of this abominable
system, that, as the stars were not so disposed by
the great author of nature, as to correspond with the
outlines of a ram or a bull ; and that, as the figures.
LETTER II. 23
of the zodiacal constellations are altogether imagi
nary, the influences borrowed from them must be so
too; and I will defy all the astrologers in the world
to escape from this conclusion. It may further be
remarked, that the fact of what is called the preces
sion of the Equinoxes, plays havoc with their system.
The equinoctial points recede annually about 50£
seconds; and by this motion the constellation Aries
is nowin the sign Taurus, and the supposed influences
of the stars must therefore have moved with them; and
the first thirty degrees of the ecliptic are now occupied
by the stars that compose the constellation Pisces;
yet the same astrological effects are ascribed to this
sign now, as were by Ptolemy seventeen hundred
years ago ! In vain will the astrologer attempt to get
clear of his perplexity, by asserting that his in
fluences proceed from the ecliptic, and not from the
stars themselves.* What is the ecliptic ? It has been
confounded with the orbit of the earth ; but the
earth's orbit is merely that track in space which it
describes in its revolution round the sun ; and if we
suppose the plane of this orbit every where extended
till it meets the starry heavens, we have a great
circle called the ecliptic. This imaginary circle is
undoubtedly of great importance! in astronomy, but
• Appendix, No. 5.
24 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
it is a circle contrived by man, and is not to be found
in the book of nature.- The astrologer labours hard
to draw his principles from nature—he places her
upon the rack, and endeavours to wring from her
bosom his impious conclusions ; but to chatter about
influences which have no bodies to send them forth,
to endeavour to fetch them out of an imaginary
circle, are vain efforts. Ex nihilo nihilfit.
It is evident from the preceding arguments that
a man, upon astrological principles, may be lost in
the other world, for what he was fated by the stars
to do in this. To clench this I shall give a quotation
from the Grammar, (page 44.)
" Remark. The word fate does not here imply inevitable fate ;
for the planets produce a certain influence in the native's affairs,
yet that influence is capable of being opposed by the human will,
and may by that means be either overcome or greatly mitigated.
If, however, it be not attended to, but allowed its full scope, it
will then certainly produce its full effect; and the reader must
remember, that astrologers, in predicting events, always presup
pose that this last circumstance will be the case."
Now all men cannot study the heavens ; there
are but comparatively few who have leisure and
ability for such a pursuit : how then shall the mass
of mankind guard against those evils which are sup
posed to
be￼
continually hovering over their heads ?
the astrologer says by consulting me. But the pro
phet Jeremiah says (xvii. 5.) " Thus saith the Lord,
LETTER II. 25
cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh
flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the
Lord;" and David (Ps. xxxii. 10), " Many sorrows
shall be to the wicked ; but he that trusteth in the
Lord, mercy shall compass him about." The first
chapter of Proverbs ends with a passage close to the
point: "But whoso hearkeneth to me shall dwell
safely, and shall be quietfrom fear of evil." God
has promised to keep those in perfect peace whose
mindsare stayed on him; and that a good man '"'shall
not be afraid of evil tidings, his heart being fixed,
trusting in the Lord" (Psalm cxii.) And though
the astrologer may attempt to " devise his way"
(Prov. xvi. 9) through this dangerous wilderness, I
desire with the psalmist ever to say, ". Hold thou me
up, and I shall be safe." (Psalm cxix. 117.) In
my next, I purpose making some remarks upon the
planets, the aspects, and the twelve houses of heaven.
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
November 30th, 1835.
LETTER III.
Sir,
Before I proceed to consider the astrological prin
ciples connected with the planets and aspects, some
remarks may be expected on the letter of Lieutenant
Morrison, which appeared in your last paper. He
observes that I seem to "fear if astrology be proved
to be true, it will overthrow the Bible"—I have no
such fear, being satisfied that this art is from beneath
—that it proceeds from the father of lies, and will
overthrow nothing but a weak, daring, superstitious
mind, and
" Make the man the most despised
Where most he wishes to be prized."
He says that I have " burst upon your readers
with a nauseous string of daring assertions" which
he has proved to be false. I am not at all disturbed
by this invective, having good evidence, that what
the Lieutenant nauseates, has been very well received
by the public. I have no doubt that he consulted
the stars as to the precise time of writing his own
LETTER III. 27
own letter, yet, on this occasion, they have evidently
deserted him ; and I have reason to believe, that this
composition has procured him no rapt admirers—
no increase of astrological reputation. He has not
disproved any thing advanced by me; and the
letter before me contains not one word of argu
ment;* but its peevish fretful scurrility proves that
the feelings of the writer have not been quite calm
since the discussion. The insinuation thrown out,
that I am, " the cat's paw of an individual whose
vanity he happened to wound," is wholly without
foundation : I am the tool of no man, but am the
free, unfettered advocate of truth.—Let the Lieut.
himself examine whether he be not the agent of the
enemy of God, in thus endeavouring to disseminate
astrological principles. He charges me with having
run from the combat, but the public is a witness of
the contrary. I have only drawn up my forces upon
more open ground, and chosen a more extensive field
of operation ; for the columns of the Cheltenham
Chronicle are as open to him as to me, if he has
courage to come forth in defence of his darling super
stition. The chairman of the committee at the
Athenaeum is a witness, that Lieut. Morrison refused
to comply with the arrangements there made—that
we should speak half-hour by half-hour at the next
• Appendix, No. 6.
28 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
meeting—and I therefore refused to continue the
discussion there. And, as to the Lieutenant's "ques
tions," I reply, that I am not an intellectual gladiator,
for " Charity vaunteth not itself:" I am not anxious
to make a vain display of my attainments, to shew
how much I know, but to defend the cause of truth ;
not to bandyquestions about astronomy, but to expose
the abominations connected with astrology ; not to
exhibit my knowledge in the way prescribed by him,
but in a manner more consistent, I trust, with the
Christian character. My name is down for a course
of lectures, to be delivered at the Philosophical So
ciety, on trigonometry, and its application to astro
nomical calculations ; and I hope, if spared, to fulfil
the engagement in a manner which shall not disgrace
myself, and which may be interesting to the members
of that respectable institution;—a"nd I apprehend,
that even the Lieutenant, if he will " condescend"
to attend, and the puffing and blowing shall have
then subsided, may receive some instruction. It re
quires but a very superficial knowledge of astronomy
to make an astrologer; and I gathered from the Lieu
tenant's observations respecting Cardan, that he was
unacquainted with algebra, and therefore at once
perceived that he was ignorant of the common ana
lytical modes of astronomical investigation. He has
also applied to me the following passage : " He that
LETTER III. 29
ansvvereth a matter before he beareth it, it is folly
and shame unto him." Now the truth is, that he
was determined to be heard ; for he not only occupied
the first evening, but the greater part of the second.
However, I heartily close, with his concluding sen
tence, that " Whatever is true and exists in nature,
emanates from God, and can never be opposed to
his jtobd"—if, by the word nature, he means the
material universe—but it is a remark destructive of
the principles of astrology.
Every Christian learns from the Bible, that his
inheritance is not here ; that it is the wicked who
are said to have their portion in this life (Psalm
xvii. 25) ; and that the church of Christ, for the most
part, are a poor afflicted people (Zeph. iii. 12) ; it
is therefore recorded of Moses, that he chose rather
to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to
enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season (Heb. xi. 25).
But, while we are enjoined to seek first the kingdom
of God and his righteousness (Matt. vi. 33), to rise
above the things of time and sense, and to set our
affections on things above and not on things of the
earth (Col. iii. 2) ; yet, according to the principles of
astrology, when we look upward, all the arrange
ments there have only a voice for this world.*
This remark alone is sufficient to prove, that astrology
• Appendix, No. 7.
30 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
proceeds from " the god of this world," and not
from the God of the Bible. The Lieutenant would
gladly bring me from the Chronicle to the Athenaeum :
but I mean, with the blessing of Heaven, to fullil the
pledge I have given, and not to leave the subject, till
I have fully unmasked this monster, astrology—
till I have exhibited its hideous deformity, and fur
nished honest minds with plain arguments, by which
they may be preserved from this " pestilence which
walketh in darkness" (Psalm xci.)
I have thought it right to make allusion to certain
works, published by Lieutenant Morrison, under the
name of Zadkiel, and in this, have violated no
pledge given to that gentleman.* The Grammar of
Astrology is his own acknowledged production; and
at the commencement of the discussion, he spoke of
Zadkiel's astrological tables as his performance; he
declared himself an enemy to common fortune-telling,
and added that he had recently burnt a pack of cards
used in his own kitchen for that purpose.— In answer
to this, I read from the " Horoscope," the following
anecdote :
" Anecdote of a Liverpool Fortune Teller.—The follow
ing occurrence took place within these few months, and, as we
happened to know more than one of the patties, we can vouch
• The Lieut, remarks in his second letter, that " private con
versation is not public properly."
LETTER III. 31
for its authenticity.—A sailor was about to be married to a young
woman in Liverpool, of whose true character he had no certain
knowledge. She had gained his affections, and had so farprevailed
on him as to induce him to promise to place all his money in her
hands, which he was about to do on the following day, when they
were to be married. But an acquaintance of the sailor happen
ing to have heard something against the girl's character, told him
what he had heard the night previous to the intended wedding,
and as it was then too late to make other enquiries, farther than of
the girl herself, who strenuously denied all thatwassaid, the sailor
and his friend agreed to consult a fortune teller on the subject.
They went immediately to one, and she told them that the young
woman had had a child ; and, in short, confirmed all the accusa
tions againsther,and described her person accurately. The sailor
delayed the marriage, and went to sea. Un his return, he found
that the fortune teller had been quite correct ; and he was thus
saved the misery and injury he would otherwise have suffered.
The girl, however, learned the cause of her disappointment, and
vowed to be revenged on the old woman. And, as the fortune
teller has since been sent to prison, we have no doubt that she
kept her vow. Thus, the old woman has met that punishment
which too often follows on doing good deeds ; for it will hardly
be denied thatshe did the sailor a service, and that her art therein
was the means of checking vice."—109,
I do not wish to trouble my readers with more
quotations than necessary, but I think the following
advertisement at the end of the Grammar of Astro
logy demands attention :
" Raphael's Royal Book of Fate ; Queen Elizabeth's Oracle
of Future Events ! ! !—A work of the greatest interest, illustrated
with a large plate, containing sixty four quaint, antique, and mu
sical emblems, relating to love, marriage, happiness, dreams fore
32 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
told, and all subjects of fate, chance, and mortal destiny. With
five thousand correct answers to the most important questions of
human life, performed in a simple pleasing' manner, by the art of
sortilogy, by cards, and by lots,or points, &c. &c. Third edition,
to which is added Raphael's Nativity—[by whom reader?]—by
Zadkiel the Seer, author of the Grammar of Astrology."
I now leave the public to judge whether Zadkiel
the Seer be an enemy or a friend to common fortune-
telling. In future I do not intend to reply to any
thing Lieutenant Morrison may bring forward, unless
it be direct argument connected with his favourite
pursuit. I will not be diverted from my subject, nor
will I attempt to interest the public mind with petty
circumstances respecting myself. I have undertaken
to refute astrology, and now proceed with my argu
ments against it.
The third chapterof the grammar relates to " The
nature of the planets."—Here it is affirmed that
persons whose minds are influenced by Herschel are
unsettled in life, and very romantic, &c. ; that those
who are born under Saturn " are nervous, fearful,
bashful, cowardly, melancholy, and given to shed
tears—their dispositions are thoughtful, malicious,"
&c. ; that they who are born under Jupiter are
cheerful and jovial ; Mars is said to be " a very evil
planet," and those born underhim are of " a rash and
angry disposition." Venus is described as giving " a
strong inclination for pleasure," so much so that
LETTER III. 33
" the native often injures his health in its pursuit ;''
and it is said that Mercury in the ascendant, " causes
great restlessness and desire of change." The Sun's
influence is affirmed to be similar to that of Mars,
and if he be in the ascendant, he " causes a degree
of pride ;" and the sensual faculties are declared to
depend wholly on the Moon.—It is written (Psalm
xix.) that " The heavens declare the glory of God,"
and I therefore scruple not to assert tliat the man who
dares to ascribe to the Supreme Being the creation
of such influences as these, is guilty of blasphemy ;
and let him who will thus impiously speak and write
concerning the works of God, not complain, if here
after he find his Maker to be a consuming fire.
" For he who will be cheated to the last,
Delusions, strong as hell, shall bind him fast."
But whence arose this visionary fabric ? Where
must we look for its original projectors ? I answer,
to the ancient heathens, who transferred the names
and qualities of their principal deities to those beau
tiful orbs that roll through the immensity of space,
round the centre of our system ; and their imaginary
influences over mundane affairs of course soon fol
lowed ; and successive astrologers, bringing to these
assumptions the reveries of a daring speculation, and
reasoning upon planetary influence from some wild
supposed analogies, at last framed a system, which
D
34 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
became a pest to the world, and the derision of the
enlightened in succeeding ages. The rapid move
ment of the nearest planet to the Sun suggested the
name of Mercury, the messenger of the gods ; the fair
splendour of the other interior planet, that of Venus,
their frail and beautiful goddess ; and from the red
colour of Mars, they supposed he must preside over
wars, and gave him the name of their martial god ;
and the next body, from his majestic appearance,
and his describing so magnificent an orbit, must
certainly be hi3 father Jupiter ; and, from the slow
movement and pale lustre of the other remote planet,
it was concluded he must be Jupiter's father—old
cruel decrepid Saturn. We learn from Plutarch that
Chrysippus and Cleanthes taught that the heavens,
the earth, the air, and the sun were full of gods ;
and in conformityiwith this system, the Stoics taught
that " the sun and stars are animated divinities,
capable of foreseeing future events, andforetelling
them to man." And even in these days of splendour,
though illumined by the glories of science and re
ligion, men, calling themselves Christians, not dis
cerning the light around them, cling to the errors of
the ancient pagans, and endeavour to support their
unchristian cause, by principles brought from inac
cessible regions, to grope their dark way to the
counsels of the Deity, and fathom the purposes of
LETTER III.
the Eternal. They delude the ignorant, entice the
unwary, and too often, we fear, fatten upon the
sorrows of the wretched.
" From him your wife enquires the planets' will,
When the black jaundice shall her mother kill ;
Her sister's and her uncle's end would know,
But first consults his art when you shall go ;
And what's the greatest gift that Heaven can give,
If after her, the adulterer shall live.
She neither knows, nor cares to know the rest,
If Mars and Saturn shall the world infest.
Or Jove and Venus with their friendly rays,
Will interpose and bring us better days."
Dhyden's Juvenal.
I now proceed to consider the aspects of the
Zodiac : these are described as being " certain dis
tances at which, when two bodies are found, they
produce a peculiar effect." The Conjunction, is two
planets being in the same sign and degree; the Sextile
is when they are two signs, or 60 degrees distanF; the
Square, when they are three signs, or 90 degrees
apart ; the Trine, when they are four signs, or 120
degrees apart; and the Opposition, when they are
six signs, or 180 degrees apart. The New Aspects
are said to have been discovered by Kepler : they are
the Semisextile (30°), the Semisquare (45°), the
Sesquiquadrate (135°^), the Quinlile (72°), and the
Biquintile (144°). Of these, the semisquare, or
semiquartile, the square, sesquiquadrate, and the
36 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
opposition, are denominated malefic aspects; and
it is affirmed that—
" When planets arefound at the distances whichconstitute these
aspects, they act evilly for the native;" and that " ifthe aspect be
not complete at birth, but may be wanting a few degrees, then the
effect is less powerful ; but that it will be found to take effect at
that period of life when it becomes complete."
There is another class of aspects called Mundane
Aspects: these are the positions of the planets, as
regards their distances from each other in the twelve
houses, hereafter to be described—
" If they occur at birth, they act upon the native all through
life ; if they are found afterward, they influence him for some
weeks (sometimes months) at that period of life to which their
arc extends."
The Zodiacal Parallel is considered the most
important of all the aspects : it
" Signifies a parallel distance from the equator, or being
in the same degree of declination ; and whetherof the same name,
North or South, is of no consequence."
The Mundane Parallels are very important—
" Both at birth and when found by direction ; and consist of
equal proportional distances from the meridian."
The Part of Fortune—
" Is that spot in the heavens which is equally distant from the
degree ascending, that the Moon is from the Sun."
LETTER III. 37
There are also " the Dragon's Head," and " the
Dragon's Tail," and a quantity of other jargon with
which I will not trouble the reader. Zadkiel ac
knowledges that many objections have been made
to the aspects, as being merely arbitrary measures,
and as having
" Nofoundation in nature, there being no difference whatever
in mathematics between the 120 degrees and that of 122 degrees,
which can be the foundation of that peculiar effect which astro
logers declare that the aspect called a Trine does produce."
He then says that many attempts have been made
to shew that the aspects correspond to a division of
the circle, which is analogous to musical measures,
and at last declares himself dissatisfied with all the
ingenious plans which have been contrived to bring
these aspects out of the book of nature, and further
observes, that
" The number 360, being the numberof the degrees contained
in the circle of the Zodiac, may be divided equally by the old
aspects, 60, SO, and 180 degrees ; and that the number 12, the
number of thesigns, may also be divided equally bythe old aspects,
a seitile being 2 signs, a square 3 signs, a trine 4 signs, and an
opposition 6 signs ;" and he then adds, that such divisions cannot
be made with the new aspects ; " that a quintile will divide the
circle equally, but not the signs ; and a usquiquadrale will not
give an equal division of either."
But if these aspects are not to be found in nature,
where is the art of astrology ? — But Zadkiel is do
38 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
termined to find them there, for he savs—what does
he say ?
" Having closely investigated this subject, I have discovered
a very remarkable peculiarity in the angles, which form both the
old and the new aspects, and I now, for the first time, publish it to
theworld. The fact is that [the discovery is announced in capitals]
Every astrologicul aspect forms the exact angle, or supplemental
angle of a regular polygon, which may be inscribed in a circle"
By the supplemental angle is to be understood,
what tha angle wants of 180 degrees. Now this
wonderful discovery of his, announced with such
pomposity, is swept away by a single observation,
and with it, all his aspects, both old and new.—The
truth is, that the division of the circle into 300 degrees
is not a division made by nature, but is merely con
ventional. The ancients divided the year into 354
days according to the course of the moon; but finding
that this did not agree with the solar year, and sup
posing the difference to be about six days, they then
divided the year into 360 days, and made an equally
correspondent division of the ecliptic : hence arose
the division of the circle into 360 degrees.* The
modern French writers on trigonometry divide the
circumference of the circle into 400 equal parts
or degrees, each degree into 100 equal parts or
minutes, and each minute into 100 equal parts or
* Appendix, No. 8.
LETTER III. 39
seconds, &c.—I say then, that the number 360 is
artificial, and not to be found in nature; and that
therefore Zadkiel's famous discovery, now for the
first time given to the world, evaporates into pure
air.—But at the discussion in defence of the dis
covery, Lieutenant Morrison observed that the hep
tagon (which is not an astrological aspect) could
not by strict geometry be inscribed io a circle. I ad
mitted it, but contended that when an Almighty
Agext is at work, his operations would not be ob
structed by a heptagon : and further remarked, that
with regard to the trisection of an angle, though no
rule has hitherto been discovered, purely geometrical,
by which this may be effected, there is nothing in
the nature of a plane rectilineal angle which forbids
its trisection, for it has been accomplished by the
hyperbolic curve. This wonderful astrologer (p. 19
of the Grammar) thinks that his discovery will afford
" Boom for admiration ofthe works of the Almighty Creator,
whose ways are pastfinding out."
But even upon his own plan is the scheme complete ?
The nonagon is a regular polygon of nine sides,
and which forms an angle of 40 degrees, " which
has not yet been found to constitute an astrological
aspect."—Will Zadkiel then part with his discovery ?
No indeed : well, what does he say? " I amfarfrom
40 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
certain that it may not be so considered." " Far
from certain!"—Oh, poor Zadkiel!—Have not all
the astrologers, from the ancient Chaldeans down to
the present period, been able to settle this matter ?
No : and I am well assured they never thought of it ;
nor would Zadkiel, unless his own beloved theory
had forced the nonagon on his attention. My readers
must observe that these aspects are considered of great
importance in astrology ; for they will make men
rich or poor, sane or insane, &c. &c. In the Gram
mar (page 13) is the following remark:
" In that king's nativity [George III.] Mercury had the sex-
tile aspect of Jupiter, which preserved his mental faculties for
several years ; but being in conjunction with Saturn,and in semi-
square with Mars, and the Moon being in square to Mars, and
in no aspect to Mercury, and neither of them in aspect to the as
cendant, the royal native, under ill direction, lost his reason."
If the preceding quotation be carefully read over,
it will be seen, that the continuance of his Majesty's
reason is supposed entirelyto have depended upon cer
tain influences hovering over his head; and they must
have been very "indirections" indeed that deprived
him ofit. It is positivelystatedthatMercury havingthe
sextile aspect of Jupiter "preserved hisfacultiesfor
several years," but that there were some evil aspects
which warred against its continuance. Here we have
influences warring against influences— a set ofaspects
LETTER III. 41
battling about bis Majesty's intellect. The sextile
aspect, assisted by a conjunction of Venus and Mer
cury, (page 51) fought wonderfully for the royal
native ; so that he positively retained his faculties
to the age of fifty. How was it then that he lost
them ? The reason is, that though Mercury was in
sextile aspect with Jupiter, yet this rogue played a
double part; he was likewise in conjunction with the
great enemy Saturn, and also in semisquare with
Mars, an evil aspect with an evil planet ; the evil
influences preponderated, and at last levelled the
monarch ; but about four months after this, King
George HI. recovered his reason, and went to Saint
Paul's to return thanks for the blessing.—Now if the
question be put how it was that his Majesty recovered
his senses ? I say, seeing that, according to Zadkiel's
account, this depended solely upon the sextile aspect
and conjunction aforesaid, it is evident, that, though
these were for a time overcome, they rallied ; these
aspects rose up again:—renewed the conflict—fought
bravely for his Majesty, and positively again prevailed :
they restored reason to her throne, placed the monarch
on his legs, and put him at the helm of affairs, and
for twenty years, formed a sort of circular shield
around his capital. But now the evil aspects again
began to gain ground ; like wild beasts they howled,
and roared about his royal pate; and at last theso
42 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
polygons!—these aspects! —these influences, came
crash upon his royal pericranium, and away went his
Majesty's intellect. But where ?—Who had the as
surance to run away with so precious a treasure ?
It was these villanous aspects. But, if we desire to
know more particulars, some astrologer must be
applied to, to ascertain them. However, if the ques
tion be put—what was the real, true, philosophical
cause of his Majesty's losing his reason ?—Zadkiel
says, that it was the semiqiiartile aspect and other
baneful influences. Will the reader believe it ?—Is
this the manner in which " the ends of Providence"
(Gram. p. 9) are brought about?—by which an all-
wise God governs the world ?
The next letter is intended to exhibit the twelve
houses of heaven, together with the principles of
" Horary Astrology."
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
Decernher, 1835.
LETTER IV.
Sir,
At the commencement of my attack upon the prin
ciples of astrology, Lieut. Morrison, in a short letter,
peepedforth with a few growls of defiance ; but now
perceiving that a near approach is made to " the
twelve houses of heaven," that this sacred territory
is about to be invaded, and that these venerable
structures are threatened with demolition, he rushes
forward with " bow-wow-wow—away thou ignoramus
—what dost thou know of the sublime mysteries con
nected with astral science ?—Begone, thou bold
intruder—bow-wow-wow." I mean that the Lieut's
letters are mere noise of words. He has not ventured
to grapple with one of my arguments ; and yet he is
evidently desirous of being esteemed a man of superior
attainments, and affirms that he has forgotten more
than I ever knew. What the Lieutenant has for
gotten, I believe, little concerns the public, but your
44 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
readers, Sir, well know what they have received from
the mental stores which remain ; and, though I agree
with him that ridicule is not the test of truth, I con
sider it an excellent weapon to expose folly. In my
last, I declared that I would not be diverted from my
subject by mere verbiage ; but, for the sake of some
who might be misled by the Lieutenant's flippancy,
and the challenge with which this last production
concludes, a few points shall be noticed.—He says,
that I shall " never unmake a single astrologer."
Possibly not; for without meaning any offence to
him, (my enmity being confined to the art he pro
fesses,) I may be permitted to quote the words of
Solomon, " Though thou shouldst bray a fool in a
mortar, among wheat with a pestle, yet will not
his foolishness depart from him." (Prov. xxvii. 22.)
But I trust that my letters, with the Divine blessing,
may be useful in guarding the unwary from being
caught in the webs of the professors. The Lieut,
does not question my knowledge of algebra and tri
gonometry, " not wishing to injure me as a teacher."
Kind gentleman ! I am extremely obliged for his
forbearance ; however, I need it not ; for, two and
twenty years' residence in Cheltenham have procured
me a reputation in my profession that may safely
defy the tongue or pen of calumny to tarni.-h. He
calls out loudly for facts, but I will not deviate from
LETTER IV. 45
the plan I have formed : when I have completed my
examination of the different branches of astrology,
the subject of facts shall be fully considered, and
in a manner, I trust, that shall confound the pro
fessors of the art. The Lieutenant intimates that I
dare not publicly avow that I have calculated na
tivities, and found them false.—I reply, that all which
I deem necessary to the refutation of astrology, shall
in due time be laid before the public ; but 1 will take
no lessons from him as to the manner of conducting
my opposition to " the divine and celestial science."
I am called a wretched reasoner, and this, too, by an
astrologer, for my remarks on the following assertion :
" He seems to fear, if astrology be true, it will over
throw the Bible."—I replied, " I have no such fear,
being satisfied that this art is from beneath," &c.
" Now," says the Lieutenant, " Why here was an
hypothesis—if it be true.—How then can it, if true,
proceed from that gentleman, &c." Hypothesis !
ay ! and that is all which an astrologer has. Three
thousand years have failed to establish it as truth in
the minds of reasonable men, or to give it a niche
in the temple of science. The Lieutenant's head
is upon its truth ; mine upon its falsehood : the mean
ing of my reply is clear—that I have no fear of
astrology's being proved to be true, and its over
throwing the Bible. The Lieut. has been fighting
-16 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
with a phantom of his own raising, and he may lay
it at his leisure. But, however, I am willing to do
justice to his extraordinary powers for disputation,
and to bear my humble testimony to his superior
talents. I admit, that his powers of argument are
almost unrivalled, and that he is unquestionably en
titled to the praise bestowed upon the country school
master, in Goldsmith's " Deserted Village :"
" In arguing, too, the parson owned his skill,
For he, though vanquished, yet could argue still,"
Lieutenant Morrison still harps upon the same
string : he says
" If il be true that astral influence be the means which the
Deity has chosen to govern this world, then has Mr. Moody flung
a jest in the face of his Maker."
I answer—if—and if not, where is the Lieu
tenant ? He is where Simon the sorcerer was—" in
the gall of bitterness and the bond of iniquity."
(Acts viii. 23.) The letter concludes with the fol
lowing challenge :
" If Mr. Moody will produce a nativity of any person who
was born in Cheltenham within the last ten years, the times of
whose birth and death can be clearly proved, and will show
that at the time ofdeath there were net those evil aspects formed in
that nativity, uhich the Grammar of Astrology teaches there al
ways are at every person's death,* I will pay 51. into the Chelten
ham Dispensary, 8tc.
• Appendix, No, 9.
LETTER IV. 47
Now, if the Lieutenant has SI. to spare, and
wishes so well to the institution, why not let charity
"have her perfect work," and hand over to the ma
nagers a handsome donation without all this parade.
However, this is my answer to the challenge :—
Though the Lieutenant's happy leisure permits him
to calculate nativities, the active duties of my pro
fession will not allow me time to hunt after them ;
and I am relieved from this trouble, by observing
that his position, if established, would prove too
much for the credit of astrology : for, as it is well
known that births and deaths are nearly simulta
neous, especially in large cities, he might reverse
the proposition, and affirm that evil aspects are formed
in every nativity at the birth of every individual. In
Zailkiel's Horoscope (page 81,) one death is said to
take place in London every seven minutes, and one
birth every six minutes ; should he endeavour to up
hold his falling cause by any refinement of time, I
have something in store for him.
I now proceed to the consideration of what astro
logers denominate " the twelve houses of heaven,"
and their connection with horary astrology ; and I
confess, that the recent examination of the subject,
has deeply impressed my mind with the awful
wretchedness of man, when left to himself. Such
an individual has no ray from heaven to direct and
43 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
cheer his path ; no smile from the Father of Spirits
to raise the fainting heart ; nor does any token of a
Saviour's love make the burden of duly light; but a
dark invisible agency having taken possession of his
mind, the spell-bound mortal treads his darkling way,
and while the fiittings of a perverted imagination often
seem to shed a false glare of success to schemes
framed by that "spirit which worketh in the children
of disobedience" (Eph. ii. 2,) he is unconsciously
borne onward to eternal ruin, by a power he knows
not, "deceiving and being deceived," for " There is
a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death" (Prov. xvi. 25.)—
" Strong delusion" will assuredly be sent to every
man who, unmindful of the plain admonitions of the
sacred volume, presumes to chalk out a path for
himself, and to become his own director. And are
we to be surprised at this, when we are told that " we
are not sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as
of ourselves, and that our sufficiency is of God" (2
Cor. iii. 5.) Yet, "vain man would be wise, though
man be born like a wild ass's colt" (Job xi. 12.)
The astrologer will not take the word of God " as a
lamp unto his feet, and a light unto his path" (Ps.
cxix. 105) ; but, as if planet struck, he attempts to
read his way in the stars, to decipher their imagined
configurations and anticipate the purposes of heaven :
LETTER IV. 40
he therefore need not be surprised if hereafter, in the
extremity of misery, he should realize the experience
of that woe denounced against all "who are wise in
their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight."
(Isaiah v. 21.) These observations are deemed a
proper preface to the disclosures which are about to
be made. A figure of the heavens, is a map or plan
to represent the heavens at any required time, as when
a child is born, or a question put—it shews
" What stars are rising, setting, or coming to the meridian ;
and also what positions are held by the sun, moon, and planets."
—" The East is that point where the sun rises or ascends, and be
comes visible; the South is that where he ceases to ascend, &c. ;
the West is thatwherehe sets and disappears ; and the Arorfnisthat
where he ceases to descend, and begins again to ascend and ap
proach the eastern horizon."
Astrologers divide the heavens into twelve com
partments, which they term houses ; and of these,
the four points just named are the most important,
and are called angles. (Grammar, page 23, 24.)—
Planets, when found in the angles, are said to be far
more powerful in producing good or evil, than in any
other part of the figure. Each of these quarters is
subdivided into three parts, forming twelve divisions,
and called the twelve houses. In the Horoscope
(page 49) the origin of these houses is ascribed
"To the fact,that when the sun, or any planet,is on the cusp
or beginning of either of them, it is found to be in aspect either to
the horizon or the meridian."
F
50 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
It is also observed '(Grammar, page 27),
"It matters not whether the sun or any star be on the
equator, and so divide the heavens into equal portions to con
stitute the houses, or be distant from the equator, and so divide the
heavens into unequal portions,since one house in the course of any
heavenly body will always measure exactly one third part of the
arc that body forms between the horizon and the meridian."
It is affirmed that the cups of the houses being in
aspect to the meridian and horizon, and that these
aspects being connected with observed effects, gave
rise to the divisions just explained. But though
this account of their origin may appear to correspond
with the old aspects, it will not with the new ones,
as with the semisquare^ se3quiquadrate, &c. ;. this
analogy, therefore, between house* and aspects falls
to the ground : the division is altogether imaginary,
and not to be found in nature.
This conclusion is rendered the more evident,from
the difference of opinion which prevails respecting
the position of the lines, which are the boundaries
of the houses. Peletariu.s, as quoted in the Penny
Cyclopedia, who wrote on the horoscope in 1563,
expresses himself thus :
"Some cut the horizon into equal parts,some avertical circle,
some the equator, some the ecliptic, some a parallel : whence it is
not wonderful that a difficult art should be involved in fresh ob
scurity ; for who can possibly see a living likeness in a trirrorwkick
is put out of shape in so many ways,"
LETTER IV. 51
His own system was the equal division of the
zodiac, thinking it absurd that
" The poles of the ecliptic should have nothing to do with a
matterwhichsonearly concerns the zodiac. Minimeque convenit,
zodiaco suos polos esse iautites in eo negotio quod zodiaco maxime
proprium est."
Such a variety of sentiment respecting the si
tuation of the astrological houses and the diversity of
practice which this must occasion, proves that astro
logers bave never had any settled principles on which
to found their predictions; and that these celestial
mansions, supposed to be so well furnished with the
indications of human destiny, have derived their ex
istence from a frenzied brain and an impious imagi
nation. Lilly, in a work, which I shall immediately
notice, thus concludes his account of the houses:
" I must confess the Arabians have made several otherdivisions
of the houses ; but I could never in my practice find any verity in
them, therefore I will say nothing of them."
The following is the title of the last work on
horary astrology :
" An Introduction to Astrology, by William Lilly ; being the
whole of that celebrated author's rules for the practice of Horary
Astrology, divestedof the superstitions oftheseventeenth century;
to which is added numerousumendments, adapted to the improved
state of the science in the present day, by Zadkiel, author of the
Grammar of Astrology, 6)c. 1835.
52 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
Of the original author of this work, and of its
precious contents, I intend in my next letter to fur
nish the reader with full information. At page 26,
we have the following remarks :
" There is nothing appertaining to the life of man in thisworld
which, in one way or other, has no relation to one of the twelve
houses of heaven ; and as the twelve signs are appropriate to the
particular membersof man's body, so also do the twelve houses re
present, notonly the several partsof man, but his actions, quantity
oflife, and living. And the curiosity and judgment of our fore
fathers in astrology was such, that they have allottedto every house
a particular situation, and so distinguished human accidents
throughout the whole twelve houses. He that understands the
questions appertaining to each of them, shall not want sufficient
grounds whereon to judge, or give a rational answer upon any con
tingent accident, and success thereof ! !"
We are informed by the editor in a note, that
"the word accidents signifies the events of life ge
nerally ;" so that the most remote and contingent
circumstamces of human life may be distinctly fore
told by astrology ! We are then presented with a
full description of each house. I shall give some
extracts :
" The first house has the signification of the life of man, of the
stature, colour,complexion,form, and shapeofhim that propounds
the question or is born ; it signifiesthe common people,or general
state of that kingdom where the figure is erected. And as it is the
first house, it represents the head and face of man. Of colours it
hath the white, &c. ; the house is masculine. From the second
house is required judgment concerning theestate or fortune ofhim
LETTER IV. 53
that asks the question, of his wealth or property, of all moveable
goods, money lent, profit or gain, loss or damage ; in suits of law,
it signifies a man's friends or assistants ; in private duels, the
querent's second, &c. ; it represents in man the neck, and hinder
part of it towards the shoulders ; of colours, the green—it is a fe
minine house, &c. The third house signifies brethren, sisters,
cousins, or kindred neighbours, small journeys, epistles, letters,
rumours, messengers, &c.; it governs the red and yellow. The
fourth house gives judgment of fathers in general. The 6fth of
children and ambassadors, of the state of a woman with child, of
banquets, &c. Ifa woman with child shall bring forth male or
female. The sixth house concerns men and maid servants, galley
slaves, hogs, sheep,goats, hares,conies, all manner of lesser cattle,
and profit or loss got thereby ; sickness, its quality and causes,
the principal humour offending, curable or not curable, Sfe. ; day
labourers, farmers, &c. The seventh house gives judgment of
marriage, all manner of love questions, of public enemies, the
defendant in a law suit ; in war, the opposing party ; all quar
rels, duels, &c. ; thieves, thefts, the person stealing, whether man
or woman ; wives and sweethearts, their shape, description, con
dition, &c. The eighth house, the state of men deceased ; death,
quality, nature, wills: b)c; the hemorrhoids, the stone,strangury,
are ruled by this house, &c. By the ninth house we give judg
ment of voyages, &c. ; of the clergy, dreams, visions, books,
learning, church livings, Sec, The tenth house personates kings,
princes, dukes, &c. ; it also signifies kingdoms and empires, &c.
The eleventh house represents friends, hope, trust, &c. The
twelfth house has significations of private enemies, great cattle,
all manner of afflictions, &c."
Now, I have been thus copious in my extracts,
that the reader may have a view of some part of the
interior of this temple of Satan. I ask the astrologer
whether he dare ascribe the creation of such in
54 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
fluences as these to the Divine Being? Will he, in
reference to them, raise his eyes to heaven, and
adopt the language of Milton's beautiful morning
bymn ?—and say—
" These are thy glorious works, Parent of Good !
Almighty ! thine, this universal frame,
Thus wond'rous fair ; Thyself how wond'rous then !
Unspeakable ! who sil'st above these heavens
To us invisible, or dimly seen
In these Thy lowliest works; yet these declare
Thy goodness beyond thought, and power divine."
The calm radiance above, when beheld by the
eye of piety, leads the mind to love and adore the
great Sovereign of nature ; but every hallowed re
flection is swept away by the vile system of astrology,
which associates with the glories above, the abo
minable fantasies of a perturbed intellect—of a wild
and disordered mind. To the remarks already made
in a former letter on the twelve signs, I shall add,
that these also are appropriated as houses to the
different planets: thus Aries is the day- house of
Mars ; Taurus is the night-house of Venus; Gemini
is the day-house of Mercury, &c. But poor Her-
schel is left without a house ; and positively, ever
since the creation of the world, he has been wan
dering through the remote regions of space, destitute
of a habitation. A modern astrologer, however, who
has some compassion for him, thinks he is partial to
LETTER VI. 55
Aquarius, and may be safely lodged there. The
term lord, as connected with this subject, is thus
explained by Lilly :
" That planet whose house is occupied by any other, is said to
be tbe lord or ruler of that other; and if his sign be on the cusp
of any house, he is called the lord of that house. Thus if Aries
ascend in any figure. Mars, who rules that sign, is Lord of the
Attendant,"
All the different signs and houses are also sig
nificant of certain diseases : thus, Cancer (Lilly p.
60) signifies a weak digestion, rotten coughs, fyc;
Virgo, croaking of the bowels; and Pisces, mucous
discharges, and the itch. They are also connected
with particular places : as Libra represents saw pits,
upper rooms, and garrets. They are supposed, like
wise, to rule over different countries : thus England,
Germany, Denmark, &c. are subject to Aries; and
over different towns, as Dublin, Mantua, Leipsic, &c.
which are governed by Taurus. I should tire my
readers were I to enumerate all the absurd principles
of the system : the truth is, all places, countries,
plants, minerals, and animals, are arranged under
the different planets, signs, and houses ; and at the
end of Dr. Sibly's astrology, I find that evil spirits
are included in the catalogue.
The subjects which remain to be examined are,
horary astrology, fortunate days and hours, the
56 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
calculation of nativities, mundane astrology, atmo
spherical astrology, astrological facts, and the theo
logy of the subject. The first of these articles I hoped
to have dispatched in the present communication ;
but on reviewing what I have written, I cannot, Mr.
Editor, now trespass further on your limits. I intend,
in my concluding letter, to examine those passages
of scripture which have been wrested from their true
import to serve astrological purposes ; and to exhibit
such a constellation of witnesses from the word of
God, against the practice of astrology, as, I trust,
shall put the-professors to shame ; and the disclosures
respecting horary astrology, reserved for my next,
may make even Philip Wood hang down his head.
This Philip Wood is a poor creature, who has just
shewn his foolish face in the " Free Press," and his
wretched performance occupies nearly two columns
of that journal. This man, not satisfied with the
Lieutenant's exertions in the noble cause, has ven
tured forth himself in its defence, and in nearly every
sentence has declared such war against the King's
English, that he deserves a severe flogging; and
though he professes that he never met with such a
presumptuous man as I am in all his experience, I
tell him, that I hope soon to pull down the whole
celestial fabric about his ears. With regard to his
observations about lunar influence, I think he evi
LETTER IV. 57
dently Deeds a caution ; I give it him in one word—
beware !* This daring sinner, by a quotation from
the Apocryphal New Testament, has positively
introduced the Saviour of the world, to authorize
and sanction his system of iniquity. I know not
whether Lieut. Morrison deems himself honoured by
such a coadjutor.—But here I leave the professor of
"Divine and celestial magic," with his "essences
—particles—triplicity of principles—moral agency
—prescience," and his " New system of theology,"
together with his proffered instruction ; recommending
to his attention, the prayerful consideration of two
passages : the first is in Proverbs (xxvi. 3)—" A
whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod
for the fool's back." The second he will find in Acts
(xiii. 10)—" O full of all subtlety, and all mischief,
thou child of the devil; thou enemy of all righteous
ness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways
of the Lord ?"
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
January, 1836.
• Appendix, No. 10.
LETTER V.
Sib,
In my last, I promised that the present letter should
make such disclosures respecting horary astrology
and its. principles, as developed in Lilly's work,
republished last year by Zadkiel, (a gentleman
dearly beloved by Lieutenant Morrison,) as should
make even Philip Wood ashamed. The Lieutenant
has not forgotten this, as I perceive from his miserable
production in your last; he labours to divert me
from my purpose, by his empty bluster respecting
Lady King's nativity : he resembles a boy who is m
dreading the approach of his master, from whom he
has reason to expect a sound thrashing : for he al
ready, by anticipation, writhes under the facts about
to be communicated ; and appears to be so confused
in his upper story, that perhaps it would be well
for him to attend to the words of Juvenal :
" Orandum est, ut sit mens sana in corpore sano."
He declares that he has no intention of arguing the
truth or falsehood of astrology with me, and yet ka
LETTER V. 59
mediately proceeds to do both, bnt in his own pecu
liar way ; and in his eagerness to defend his be
loved idol, he has positively not paid that regard to
truth which we should expect from a naval officer
and a man of honour. He says
" In Lady King's nativity, the meridian at birth received no
aspect of the Sun ; but the Sun after passing over 21 degrees 53
minutes, arrived at a sextile aspect of the meridian which mea
sured 19 years and near 9 months, the autumn of 1835, at which
time itwas predicted in the Grammar she should marry, and
she accordingly did."
Now this is really too bad ; the Lieutenant talks
of my deceiving the public, which I trust I never did ;
but this is a thumper. The conclusion to which
Zadkiel ultimately came respecting the marriage of
this lady, is fo be found at page 137 of the Grammar.
Zadkiel, having shewn that the Moon will form a
a sextile aspect with Jupiter—19 days, 20 hours,
52 minutes, after the time of birth, then says—
"This, at the rate of a day for a year, is just 19 years, 10
months, and 13 days, which age the native attains on the 23d of
October 1835 ; ami, as at the age of 20 years and 26 days, or the
5th of January, 1836, the Moon is in conjunction with the Sun
in the secondary direction, it it not at all improbable that the
former ofthese periods may be thatof the engagementbeingformed,
and the latter that of its consummation .'"
Zadkiel here affirms that it was not at all impro
bable that Lord Byron's daughter would be married
60 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
on the 5th of January, 1836; but the lady was be
fore hand with him, for her nuptials were celebrated
on the 7th of July, 1835.
I now leave the public to make their own com
ment upon this fact : he was not right even in the
year ! and yet the Lieutenant says, she married
according to the time of his prediction.
In the horoscope of this nativity, the Moon re
presents Miss Byron, and Jupiterber future husband :
when the Moon and Jupiter form a sextile aspect, an
engagement is formed between Miss Byron and Lord
King ; and when these planets come to a conjunction,
Miss Byron becomes Lady King. How besotted
and stultified must that man's mind be, who can give
credence to such stuff. But Zadkiel has very much
wavered in opinion respecting this marriage; for at
page 58, he says, " As the Sun is occidental, and the
Moon cadent, I judge that she will not marry early
in life ;" [but if she should, take care Zadkiel !]
" or, if she do, that it will be to a man some years
her senior." Truly, this is a prediction worthy of
an astrologer !
It rests, so far as it goes, upon the Sun's being
occidental and cadent. The sun was declining
from the meridian towards the west, one of the
parties must, therefore, be declining in years ; but
so far from this being true, neither of them had at
LETTER V. 61
tained even the meridian of life. The Sun was also
cadent : to explain this, I must observe that the
twelve houses of heaven, are either angular, sue
cedent, or cadent—the angular are the strongest, the
succedent the next powerful, and the cadent the least
powerful ; but these terms are here supposed to refer
to the strength of life, and therefore Zadkiel inferred,
as the Sun was in a cadent house, one of the parties
must be in the wane of existence ; but the truth is,
both were young, Lord King being little more than
thirty at the time of his marriage.
As to the death of Lord Byron, which took place
in April, 1824, it was easy for Zadkiel, who did not
write his Grammar till 1833, to find some confi
gurations in the heavens which might seem to shadow
forth the event. But
" Is there a planet that by birth
Does not derive its home from earth,
And, therefore, probably must know
What is, and hath been done below ;
Who made the Balance, or whence came
The Bull, the Lion, and the Ram ?
Did we not here the Argo fig
Make Berenice's periwig 1
Whose livery does the Coachman wear ;
Or who made Cassiopea's chair !
And therefore as they came from thence,
With us may hold intelligence."
HuDiBRis, Part ii. Canto 3.
REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
Lieutenant Morrison, referring to his challenge
to me in a former letter, to produce a nativity
in which evil aspects were formed at the period
of death, corresponding to the rules of the Grammar,
comments on my reply to this, by charging me with
intentional deception, or with gross ignorance, for
reversing the terms of his proposition respecting the
supposed evil aspects formed at the death of any in
dividual : he says, " I meant only those completed
or formed according to rules of the Grammar," /
meant only !—a pretty mode of getting out of a
difficulty. The Lieutenant should have said what
he meant; fori am certain that not one of his readers
understood him, according to his subsequent expla
nation. He denies—and I solicit the attention of
the public to the fact—that the evil aspects, signifi
cant of the death of an individual, are astrologically
formed the precise moment when the soul leaves the
body ; and affirms that the true astrological aspects,
indicative of the solemn event, are connected with
some prophetic arc of direction, extending to a certain
period after the birth. I will prove the direct con
trary; and that, according to the principles of astro
logy, evil aspects are formed at the very article of
dissolution. If the Lieutenant knows this, he has
attempted to deceive the public ; and if he does not
know it, he is an ignoramus in the science. In Zad-
LETTER V. 63
kiel's Lilly (pages 174-177,) are the horoscopes of
two persons who consulted him when afflicted with
some dangerous malady : the first was a sick doctor,
who enquired what was his disease, and whether it
was curable ; the seeond was a man, who, alarmed
at the continuance of some complaint, wished to know
whether he should live or die—we are informed that
both parties died at the time predicted by Lilly. The
second case closes with these words—
" The patient die! the 28th of the month, when Mercury came
to the square of Saturn, and conjunction of the Sun in the figure.
The Moon came then to the opposition of the Sun, and had tran
sited the cusp of the sixth house (the house of sickness) the day
preceding, namely 14 degrees of Aquarius."
My readers may now perceive, that I have fully
established the fact, that upon the principles of as
trology, any person afflicted with a fatal disease,
dies at the moment when certain evil aspects are
completed, which are supposed to be significant of
the event. I therefore repeat, that if evil aspects are
formed at the death of every individual, they are also
at the birth of every individual, as births and deaths
are nearly simultaneous, especially in large cities.
This proves that the principles of astrology are at war
with each other, and that the art is " a mere system
of groundless conceits" as was long ago observed by
Mr. Henry Briggs, professor of geometry in Gres-
ham college.
64 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
The two awful cases noted above, and which are
taken from a handsome octavo volume published
last year, remind me of Ahaziah, who sent to en
quire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, whether he
should recover of his disease ; but Elijah was com
manded to go and meet the messengers, and to inform
them that God had declared their master should
surely die, because he had not consulted a prophet
of the Lord.— See 2 Kings i. 2. When men depart
from God, they are led captive by the Devil at his
will. (2 Tim. ii. 26.) The unhappy victims of as
trological folly, who consulted Lilly, no doubt were
moved to this act at a time when the arrangements
of the stars were in some respectsfavourable to the
wiles ofthe Prince of Darkness ;" and as he is called
" the accuser of the brethren," how high must be
the advantages which he obtains against systematic
rebels, whom he claims as his own property. With
respect to such characters, we have reason to believe
that he may not unfrequently predict and accomplish
his predictions.—See 1 Kings xxii. 22. Deut. xiii. 1,
&c. The expression, in the second passage, " Let
us go after other gods," comprehends all wilful
transgressions of the divine commands.
I now hasten to consider the remainder of the
Lieutenant's letter. He speaks of " the stupid pre
judice. against astrology." What! would he wish
LETTER V.
to turn all his Majesty's subjects into star gazers ?
he must beware, or he may receive a rebuke from a
quarter he little expects. He endeavoured to form
an astrological class at the Athenaeum, but the at
tempt was resisted ; and though he was one of its
trustees, his astrological zeal led to his separation
from that institution ; and I much question whether
he will ever collect aset ofpupils for astral instruction,
unless he seek them in our lunatic asylums.—My
course of argument against the theme of his idolatry
remains in full strength, as he has not dared to assail
one of its principles; but still he swells with self-
importance—obliquely attacks my professional repu
tation, and even levels his shafts against my person.
But the description is wide of the truth: I am neither
dark nor crooked ; but the terms which apply not to
my person, may to his mind, and I think he would do
well to sit down to self-examination: the portraiture
concludes with these words — "capricious as Capri
the goat." Here's Latin!— Caper or Capra, but
never Capri the goat—poor man !
The rude reproach and coarse vituperation which
garnish this dying effort of astrological genius, I con
sider as a crown of laurel ; for, vanquished by the
power of truth, and lowered before the public, the
stream of the Lieutenant's diction is tainted with the
F
66 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
gall of his spirit : " Out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh." Seeing also, that he
declines all regular argument upon the subject, I
therefore reject his proposition respecting " the sealed
packet." He asks—"if astrology be so offensive to
God, why was it not forbidden in the decalogue?" I
reply, that it is forbidden in every commandment,
and if he cannot understand this, he is but a tyro
in theology. He adds,
" Let Mr. M. take my word for this, divines having abilities
as great as his, have been lost in the depths of the question of the
origin of evil."
Take the ipse dixit of an astrologer !—never !
And as to the divines who were thus lost—I reply,
that men who explore depths which the word
of God affords no light to fathom, can have no
other guide than the spirit of darkness; and therefore
it is no wonder that many have been lost and be
wildered in the mazes of unhallowed enquiry ; but
as I have no wish thus to tempt the Most High, and
to be lost with them, but rather to be humbly thank
ful for what is revealed, and to rejoice in the glory
of God, it is not my intention to exercise my mind
" in things too high for me." I am aware that there
are some men who do not scruple to trace the foul
stream of evil to the fountain of all purity; but, dis
LETTER V. 67
missing all metaphysical subtleties I trace it to the
dragon and his angels, and enquire not how it was
generated in them; but there leave the matter, till
the light of eternity shall chase every cloud of error,
illumine every dark and difficult subject, and exhibit
the splendour of the Divine government in all its un
sullied excellence and unspotted holiness—" what we
know not now we shall hereafter."* (John xiii. 2.)
My antagonist remarks that it is not for me to shew
howfar evil may exist by permission.—Bypermission!
He knows that his unrighteous system makes God the
very Creator of it; and I would have him consider
that the awful day is approaching, when the glorious
Majesty of Heaven will enter upon a severe reckon
ing with those daring speculatists who have had the
high temerity to make him the author of that for
which his Son agonized in Gethsemane, and expired
on Mount Cakary. It is also asserted by this modern
advocate of planetary influence, that astrology abhors
fatalism, when I have already shewn from Zadkiel's
Grammar, that astrology is fatalism, to the great bulk
of mankind: and that, upon his principles, none, but
hs devoted adherents, can escape from the common
bondage of human nature.
I now proceed to consider the principles of horary
• Appendix, No. 11.
68 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
astrology, which, in the preface to Zadkiel's Gram
mar, is defined to be
" The art of foreseeing by the positions of the heavens at any
period, when an individual may be anxious about the matter, the
remit of any business or circumstances whatever."
In the preface of Zadkiel's Lilly, we have the
following presumptuous declaration :
" If a proposition of any nature be made to any individual
about the result of which he is anxious, and therefore uncertain
whether to accede to it or not, let him but note the hour and mi'
nute, when it wasfirst made, and erect a figure of the heavens as
herein taught, and hisdoublsshall be instantly resolved. He may
thus in fiveminutes learn infallibly whether the affair will succeed
or not, and, consequently, whether it is prudent to adopt the offer
made or not."
What ! are the heavens every moment at the
beck and call ofevery lunar fortune-teller? Solomon
has well written, "The mouth of fools poureth out
foolishness" (Prov. xv. 2) ; but, to this insult upon
the human intellect, I oppose the solemn declaration
of the word of God ; for it is written (Prov. xx. 24)
" Man's goings are of the Lord, how can a man then
understand his own way ?" The humble Christian
being "taught of God," commits his way "unto
the Lord" (Psalm xxxvii. 5,) walks by faith in him,
and not by the frenzied vision of an astrologer.—
" We walk by faith, not by sight" (2 Cor. v. 7) ;
LETTER V. 69
for " the steps of a good man are ordered by the
Lord," (Psalm xxxvii. 23.) Lilly, tutored by the
master whom he served, proceeds thus :
" The Querent is he or she that propounds the question,
and desires a resolution ; the Quesited is he or she, or the thing
Bought or inquired after. The Significator is no more than the
planet which rules the house that signifies the person or thing de
manded ; as if Aries is ascending-, Mars, being the lord of Aries,
shall be significant of the Querent ; viz. the sign ascending shall
in pari signify his corporature bod; or stature : the lord of the
ascendant, according to the sign he is in, the moon and planet in
the ascendant, equally mixed together, shall shew his quality and
condition ; so that let any sign ascend, what planet is lord of that
sign, shall be called lord of the house, or significator of the per
son inquiring."—Page 76-77.
O ! how abominable must that man be in the
sight of God who thus thinks and writes of his
works ! If the principles of astrology be in accord
ance with truth, we must infer that, from the com
mencement of the world, " when the morning stars
sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for
joy" (Job xxxviii. 7), the heavens were so constituted
that they should at any moment, even to the latest
period of time, give full information to every moon
struck rebel of the person, quality, and condition of
any worldling that might consult him : to name it
is to confute it ; and that man's mind must be aw
fully infatuated, who can cherish such thoughts of
the glorious Architect of the Universe. I would
70 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
recommend to the solemn consideration of every as
trologer the following words in the 50th Psalm :—
" These things hast thou done, and / kept silence ;
thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one
as thyself; but I will reprove thee, and set them in
order before thine eyes. Now, consider this, ye
that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces and there
be none to deliver." God's works are like himself,
pure and holy : it is written in Psalm cxlv. "All thy
works shall praise thee." The astrologer "sets his
mouth against the heavens" (Psalm lxxiii. 9), but
he should remember the words of Isaiah (lv. 9), " For
as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my
ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher
than your thoughts." The way of the Lord is in the
great waters, and his footsteps are not known, and
he led his people, not by starry influence, but " by
the hand of Moses and Aaron" (Psalm Ixxvii.) ; God
knoweth " the end from the beginning" (Isaiah xlvi.
10), and He will not give his glory to another
(Isaiah xlii. 8, and xlviii. 11), and "It is the glory
of God to conceal a thing" (Prov. xxv. 2). The
late learned and eloquent Robert Hall, in a sermon
on this subject, has the following important remarks :
" It is alway9 a matter of awful uncertainty, when we enter
on the business of the day, whether we shall close it in time or
eternity ; when we compose our eyes to slumber, in which world
LETTER V. 71
we shall open them. The future is in the hand of God. No man
can say with confidence, that any one scheme that he is pursuing
shall be crowned with success ; any one hope or fear which he
entertains be realized. Every period of our life is opening some
freshpage, the contentsofwhich no human sagacity candetermine ;
nor is there a single event which can take place under the sun,
which can be known with certainty till actually accomplished.
God reserves the causes of events in his own hands ; and all that
the highest wisdom can attain, is such a degree of probability, as
may lay a foundation for distant and uncertain conjecture. He
leads nations as well as individuals " by a way which they know
not." The scenes are shifted and changed by an invisible hand,
in such a manner, as clearly to prove that the collective wisdom
of mankind, is no more competent to direct their way, than the
solitary wisdom of particular persons."—Vol. vi. p. 43.
These are the sentiments, not only of Robert
Hall, but of the whole Church of Christ." We are
further told by Lilly (page 76), that " the whole key
of astrology" rests in the following words rightly un
derstood :
" You must consider the matter propounded, and see to which
of thetwelve houses it does properly belong ; when you have found
the house, consider the sign, and lord of that sign, how, and in
what sig-n, and what part of heaven he is placed, how dignified,
what aspect he has to the lord of the ascendant, who impedites
yoursignificator ; who is a friend unto him, viz. : what planet it
is, and what house he is lord of, orin what house posited ; fromsuch
a man or woman signified by that planet, shall you be aided or hin
dered, orby one of such relation unto you, as that planet signifies;
if lord of such a house, such an enemy ; if lord of a house that
signifies enemies, then an enemy verily ; if of a friendly house, a
friend."
72 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
I now present my readers with the following
table, which I have formed from Lilly (page 27, 34.)
1st house Aries and Saturn are the consignificators.
2nd ditto Taurus and Jupiter.
3rd ditto Gemini and Mars.
4th ditto Cancer and Sol.
5th ditto Leo and Venus.
6th ditto Virgo and Mercury.
7th ditto Libra and the Moon.
8th ditto Scorpio and Saturn.
9th ditto Sagittarius and Jupiter.
10th ditto Capricornus and Mars.
11th ditto Aquarius and Sol.
12th ditto Pisces and Venus.
Lilly says the consignificators of the first house
are Aries and Saturn, because Aries is the first sign,
and Saturn the first of the planets (page 28). But,
in nature, there is no first sign of the zodiac, and
the commencement of the year has varied in different
ages, and in different countries. Before the alter
ation of style in 1751, the year, with us, began on
the 21st of March, when the Sun entered Aries ; but
since that period, its commencement has been fixed
for January the 1st, when the Sun is in 10 degrees
of Capricornus ; and this point of the ecliptic might
be considered the first of that circle, instead of the
first degree of Aries. Saturn is here called thefirst
of the planets ; but we are assured, if the existence
LETTER V. 73
of the Georgium Sidus had been known to the an
cients, this planet would have taken precedence of
the rest; and thus the consignificators of the first
house would have been Capricornus and Herschel,
instead of Aries and Saturn ; and the whole series
have been changed, and the judgments of astrologers
respecting the destinies of mankind, would have
varied with these transformations. We observe also
that the order of the planets, as here set down, is ac
cording to the order of their distances ; but in the
time of Lilly, only seven primary planets had been
discovered ; consequently, in the table above, the
number is exhausted at the seventh house; and the
series is re-commenced at the eighth ; but -if the
ancient astrologers had known of the newly dis
covered planets, Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vosta, they
would not have been overlooked, but have been in
vested with due power and influence in some of the
twelve celestial mansions. In connection with this
subject, I shall notice the discovery of Jupiter's sa
tellites by Galileo, called by him the Medecian Stars,
in honour of the Duke of Tuscany ; he was urged by
the astrologers of that day to attribute some influence
to them on the affairs of this world ; but Galileo, who
had a thorough contempt for all prognosticators, told
them to prophecy merrily on according to their for
mer rules ; for, as the new planets had not disturbed
74 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
their previous labours, they would be no less for
tunate conjurors for the future. I think I have fully
proved that the twelve houses and their consigni-
ficators have no existence in nature, but are the wild
productions of astrological fancy. From the vile
volume before me, I shall select a few of the special
cases which were submitted to the author for reso
lution. The first is to be found at page 88 : —"If
the querent were likely to live long, yea or not—to
what part of the world he had best direct his course
—what part of his life was likely to be most fortunate,
&c."—At page 108, we have a figure for the reso
lution of the following queries : " If a party might
be found at home—a thing suddenly happening,
whether good or ill is about to follow—what moles
or marks the querent has. If one absent be dead or
alive." At page 101, is an horoscope to ascertain
whether a certain ship, trading to the coast of Spain,
were lost "or living." At page 119 is another, to
determine the following queries : " If the querent
should be rich, or subsist himself without marriage—
by what means he should attain wealth—the time
when—if it would continue." At page 129, a figure
is set to solve the following questions : " If an ab
sent brother be living or dead—if dead, whether
killed by soldiers—if living, when he should hear of
him—where he was—and when he should come
LETTER V. 75
home." At page 132, " If a certain rumour or
report were true or not." At page 142, " If I should
purchase the houses of master B. &c." At page
153, " If the person asking the question should ever
have children." Atpage 155, " A female being with
ehild, whether it were a male or female ; and about
what time she should be delivered." At page 227,
" Whether a lady should marry a certain gentleman."
At page 232, " A servant decamped—which way was
he gone—when return." At page 234, "A dog
missing—where to be found." Upon this last case,
Lilly says,
" The sign of the sixth signifies a dog, ice. ; the sign Gemini
is west and by south, the quarter of heaven westerly; Mercury,
the dog's siGNincATOR, is in Libra* a western sign, and is in a
south western quarter of the heaven ; the Moon is in Virgo, a
south west sign, verging to the west angle. The plurality of the
testimonies shewed that the dog ought to be west from where the
owner lived, which was at Temple bar ; therefore I judged that the
dog was about Long Acre, or at the upper part of Drury lane t"
The rest of this judgment, though affording an
exquisite specimen of astrological mania, is too long
to be transcribed.*
At page 236, we have a figure for " Money lost
—who stole it— is it recoverable." At page 238,
*' Fish stolen, &c." At page 25G, Zadhiel, the
• Appendix, No. 12.
76 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
editor of this work, says, that " being in company
with two other artists, a general desire was expressed
to know the future destiny of astrology," and he
erected a figure for this purpose.—" What will be
the destiny of astrology ?—3h. 28m. p.m. August 21,
1834, Lat. 53c 25. " The judgment on this figure
is extended to a considerable length, and the follow
ing extract is here given as a sample of the wild
uncontrollable folly of the advocates for stellar in
fluence.
" The first thing to be observed in this figure isthat Mercury,
the natural significator of the science, is lord of the ninth, and is
therefore the significator of astrology. He is found cadent, and
almost peregrine, [peregrine means having no essential dignity
whatever,] having no essential dignity but his term, by which
may be seen the present enfeebled state of the science ; but as
Mercury has passed through four degrees of his term in a fixed
sign, this points out, that for four years it has been in some mea
sure more in credit than previously. And this is the case, as it is
about four years since the editor's publications began to call at
tention to the science, &c."
Here Mercury's having passed through four
degrees of his term in a fixed sign, signifies that
astrology has for four years gained some fixedness
of reputation. But what says Raphael, a modern
writer, on the terms of the planet ?
" Hence the theory of the terms and phases, which the expe
rience of the present day leads U3 to reject, &c."—Manual of
Astrology, p. 134.
LETTER V. 77
Raphael would not, therefore, allow Zadkiel
the honour he has thus claimed, and at page 217
of his work, is a figure in order to ascertain
the probable success of his new book of the stars.
Zadkiel concludes his judgment on the figure above
noticed by declaring, " Astrology is destined to
flourish while the world endures."* Raphael sums
up his by affirming that his book
" Is fated to enjoy celebrity, when, probably, some of the more
popular works ofthe present day will be sunk in the lethe ofpub
lic opinion, and no more remembered in the circle of literature."
In my first letter, I promised to shew that the
scheme of astrology rested upon no foundation of
rational argument, that its bold conclusions were not
borne out by accredited facts, and that in its prin
ciples it was contrary to divine revelation. The
greater part of my task I have now accomplished.
All argument is against it; common sense frowns
upon it; reason sickens at its contemplation, and
piety scouts it; and the astrologer, driven from every
post of reason, baffled in his vain attempts to uphold
a false system, seeks a refuge in supposed facts, and
to this refuge I mean soon to follow him. In the
Horoscope, page 85, Stellarius says " Riches may be
obtained by a variety of means which an astrologer
• Appendix, No. 13.
78 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
can point out;" astrologers then should be as rich
as Cracsus, but that the majority of them have been
generally poor is well known ; however, I read in the
75th Psalm, that " Promotion cometh neither from
the east, nor from the west, nor from the south ; but
God is the Judge : he putteth down one, and setteth
up another." At page 55, the same writer observes,
" Ifmerchants, captains of vessels, sailors, and passengers had
recourse to the planets before they set sail, it is astonishing what
lives and property might be saved, and what fortunes might be
made, by choosing a good time for commencing the voyage. The
same may be said of travellers by land. Had Mr. Huskinson, for
instance, consulted an astrologer, before he ventured on the
railway, he might have avoided the accident which deprived his
countrymen of such a useful member."
Zadkiel, the editor, adds to this, " Or if he had
known the evil directions then operating in his na
tivity, he might have saved his life." It is no chance
moment that conducts a soul to the, judgment seat of
Christ, to give an account of the deeds done in the
body ; and Job says (xiv. 5), " Seeing his days are
determined, the number of his months are with thee,
thou hastappointed his bounds that he cannot pass."
But in the book of Ecclesiastes (viii. 8) is a passage
still more close to the point," There is no man hath
power over the spirit to retain the spirit, neither hath
he power in the day of death, and there is no dis
LETTER V. 79
charge in that war ; neither shall wickedness deliver
those that are given to it." With regard to the
merchants and sailors, alluded to in the preceding
quotation, I shall present my readers with an extract
from a letter, which I received from a gentleman im
mediately after my discussion with Lieut. Morrison
had commenced.
" He (the Lieut.) might also have quoted those enlightened
pirates, the Algerines, who never allowed their ships to leave the
port without consulting some dabbler in these mysteries ; but the
science must hold equally good, and the prognostications must be
equally true on the ocean as on the land ; therefore an astrologer
would be a desirable person on board our ships ofwar ; his advice
■night be useful in fixing the limits of the cruising ground, and,
should they meet with an enemy, he could tell them the lucky day
to fight, and the lucky day to run away. And yet, I do not re
collect that during the last warwe had tire advantage of the advice
of any of these gentlemen ; but, some how or another, in every
bustle in which I was concerned, we stumbled on the lucky day ;
indeed, I do not ever recollect putting off the rumpus until the
next day, or even a single hour, if we had an 'opportunity of
coming to the scratch at once."
In Lilly's history of his life and times, is the
story of a Cumberland girl, who having departed
from the path of virtue, was delivered of an illegiti
mate child, and she fathered it upon one Captain
Pennington, whom she believed to be slain. But
the Captain soon after returned, " most woefully
vexed to be thus abused when absent. The woman
80 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
was countenanced by some gentlemen ofCumberland
in this her villany against bim, so that though be
had a warrant against her, he could never discover
her." Her friends sent her to London ; Lilly beard
of it, and promised Capt. Pennington to find her out.
He then says, " I procured the Lord Chief Justice
Bramstan's warrant, and had it lying dormant by me.
She had not been in the city one fortnight, but that
I, going casually to the clerk of the assizes' office for
Cumberland, saw there a handsome woman, and
hearing her speak the northern tongue, I concluded
she was the party I did so want." Lilly afterward
had her secured, and at the next assizes she was
sentenced to be whipped and imprisoned for one
year. The arch rogue adds, " this action infinitely
pleased Mr. Pennington, who thought I could do
wonders" (page 94). Sir Walter Scott, in his letters
on demonology, has the following remarks concerning
this astrological deceiver :
'' Lilly, who wrote the history of his own life and times,notices
in that curious volume, the most distinguished persons of his day,
who made pretensions to astrology, and, almost withoutexception,
describes them as profligate, worthless.sharkingcheats, abandoned
to vice, and imposing by the grossest frauds upon the silly fools
who consulted them.
" The astrologers embraced different sidesof the civil war,and
the king one side,and the parliamentary leaders on the other,were
curious to know, and eager to believe, what Lilly, Wharton, to
LETTER V. 81
Gadbury, had discovered from the heavens touching the fortune
of the strife. Lilly was a prudent person, contriving with some
address to shift the sails of his prophetic bark, so as to suit the
current ofthe time, and the gale of fortune. No person could
better discover from various omens, the course of Charles's mU-
fortunes, so soon as they had come to pass. In the lirce of the
Commonwealth, he foresaw the perpetual destruction of the mo
narchy ; and, in 1660, this did not prevent his foreseeing the re
storation of King Charles II. Once a year the astrologers had a
dinner or feast, where the knaves were patronised by the company
ofsuch fools asclaimedthe titleof Philomaths, Sec."
The author of another work, " Demonologia,"
has similar remarks to the above (page 213), and
observes that
" The life of Lilly contains so much artless narrative, and at
the Bame time such palpable imposture, that it is difficult to know
when he is speaking what he really believes to be the truth. • • •
But Lilly was an exquisite rogue, and never at a fault. Having
prophesied in his almanack of 1660, that the parliamentstood on a
tottering foundation, when taken up by a messenger, during the
night he contrived to cancel the page, printed off another, and
•hewed his copies before the committee, assuring them that these
were none of his own, but forged by his enemies."
Lilly, in the history of his life, gives a full ac
count of the whole matter: he sent for Mr. Warren,.
the printer, dictated to him what alterations he would
have made, and told him that it was his design " to
deny the book found fault with," and then adds,'"-'!
told him I doubted he would be examined." " Hang
a
82 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
them," said Warren, " they are all rogues : I'll swear
myself to the devil, ere they shall have an advantage
against you by my oath." When the book was
presented by the committee to Lilly, he, having care
fully inspected it, said " This is none of my book,
some malicious Presbyterian hath written it, who are
my mortal enemies ; he, producing six altered copies,
said, "these I own, the others are counterfeits, pub
lished purposely to ruin me."* Lilly, however, was
put in confinement for some days, but his liberation
was at last procured by some of his friends. Zad-
kiel concludes his preface to Lilly's HoraryAstrology,
with these words :
" After many years' experience, I have found the laws ofastro
logy unfailing, and as I can discover no prohibition of its practice
in the word of God, I am prepared to defend it against all the
foolish attacks of those who falsely declare that it upholds fatality,
or is opposed to the providence or revelation of God. I am con
tented, with God's blessing', to give up the ghost in the firm per
suasion, that, in maintaining what I believe is the truth in this
respect, I shall meet, through the goodness of God and the merits
of my Saviour, with a merciful judgment."
We have much reason to fear that many fall
asleep in the arms of death, who dream of heaven
but wake in hell, and are found at the bar of God
with "a lie in their right hand" (Isaiah xliv. 20).
When Thomas Paine had a dangerous illness in the
• Appendix, No. 13.
LETTER V. 83
French prison, he had no fears of approaching dis
solution (Psalm Ixxiii. 4), and afterward declared
that he had had a conscientious trial of his own prin
ciples : but we read of some whose consciences are
" seared with a hot iron" (1 Tim. iv. 2), whom God
has judicially abandoned, and to whom he in effect
says, " Conscience, let them alone" (Hos. iv. 17).
Lieutenant Morrison, at the discussion, asked,
"Can Lilly be confuted ?" I answer, he can, and
by a single passage from the word of God :—Saint
James says (iv. 13), " Go to, now, ye that say, to
day or to-morrow, we will go into such a city, and
continue there a year, and buy and sell, and get gain :
whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrotv.
For what is your life ? It is even a vapour, that
appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away."
I therefore say, that while the astrologer is calculating
his arc of direction—while he is contemplating the
perspective of distant years—while his imagination
is surveying some remote idol, a voice may sound in
his ears, louder than ten thousand thunders, " Thou
fool, this night, thy soul shall be required of thee !"
(Luke xii. 20.)
Mr. Editor, as it is my intention, from what I have
written, and some additional matter, to form a small
volume, which I trust, with God's blessing, may, in
some degree, be an antidote to the astrological poison
84 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
now in circulation, I shall trouble you with but one
more letter. I am aware that the same subject long
continued seldom promotes the interest of a public
journal. I propose in my next to make some re
marks on "fortunate days and hours," the calculation
of nativities, and to produce such a series of facts
against astrology, as shall satisfy every unprejudiced
mind, that this art is not only destitute of rational
principles, but that its predictions are not verified
by experience. With many thanks for the liberal
space allotted me in your columns,
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
January, 1836.
LETTER VI.
Sir,
It has ever been the practice of the patrons of Folly,
to endeavour to invest her with some imaginary ex
cellences, or to adorn their idol with some of the
attributes of truth. The gamester declares that his
art is connected with the doctrine of chances, and
that his calculations of success are the results of pro
found scientific induction ; the epicure refers us to
those chemical laws, which are brought to bear upon
the art of cookery, and avows that his daily gratifi
cation is their destined object; so the astrologer pro
fesses that his art "as now practised, is nothing
more than a mathematical calculation," and that
" there is no more harm in it, than there is in an
swering a question by arithmetic." Stellarius, in
the article just quoted from the Horoscope (page 19),
says, that the first astronomers were astrologers ; but
Zadkiel, the editor of this work, who sometimes
86 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
differs from his correspondent, allows that the early
history of astronomy is lost (page 94) ; but is of
opinion that astronomy is " the most ancient science
among mankind" (page 22). It is, however, certain
that astrology continually attempts to lean upon
astronomy for support; but the detested art is as
dissimilar from the sublime and noble science with
which it seeks an alliance, as that large serpent, the
Anacondo, is from the mnjestic tree, in the branches
of which it is lodged, ready to devour the first tra
veller that shall approach it. To calculate a con
junction of Mars and the Moon is astronomy; but to
believe that such a configuration at birth, will render
the native bold and enterprising, is astrology : to as
certain when Jupiter will reach the mid-heaven, is
astronomy ; but to declare that this will raise a man
to the pinnacle of prosperity, is astrology : to calcu
late a sextile aspect with Mercury and Jupiter, is
astronomy ; but to say, that such an aspect preserved
the mental faculties of George the Third for several
years, is astrology. Astronomy calculates the dis
tances, periods, and magnitudes of the heavenly
bodies; astrology ascribes to those luminaries certain
imaginary influences over mundane affairs. The
astronomer conducts his operations upon mathema
tical principles, and arrives at his results with un
erring certainty; but the astrologer pursues a course
LETTER VI. 87
of mystic absurdity, and founds his predictions on
the vain chimeras ofancient heathenism. The study
of astronomy tends to ennoble the mind, and give
force and energy to its reasoning faculties ; but that
of astrology casts a mist over the mental perceptions,
annihilates moral energy, and deprives man of his
common sense. Astronomy glorifies God, by ex
hibiting the effects of his infinite power, wisdom,
and goodness, in the formation of the heavens ; but
astrology ascribes to him an absurd and impure go
vernment, and robs him of his glory, by pretending
to predict what God alone can know. Astronomy
connects the mind with heaven ; but astrology as
sociates it with the daemons of darkness. I am aware
that in some countries in the east, the unnatural
union of astronomy and astrology prevails. Gibbon
(vol. vii. page 35) says,
" Id the Eastern Courts the truths of science could be re
commended only by ignorance and folly; and the astronomer
would have been disregarded, had he not debased his wisdom
and honesty, by the vain predictions of astrology."
The Chinese profess to have studied astronomy
more than four thousand years; but before the ar
rival of the Jesuits they were unable to form a correct
calendar. Zimmerman, in his "National Pride,"
observes, that the Chinese astronomers prepare the
imperial calendar, which shews what days and hours
88 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
are lucky or unlucky, but " their most important
duty is to predict all eclipses." From Tomlin's
Journal of his Residence in Siam, it appears that
"the Siamese are dependent on China for their
annual calendar or almanack, and are unable to de
termine the Song Kran, or exact commencement of
the new year, and other important periods till its
arrival." It is accompanied by "an astrological
hieroglyphic, made by the high priest himself, pre
dicting the fate of the country for the ensuing year."
Morier, in his Second Journey through Persia, informs
us, that " almost every town in Persia has its muna-
jem, or astrologer," and that " frequently great men
have one attached to their person, who regulates all
the actions of their lives."
" The Prince of Shiraz went in his greatest state to Kalaat
Poushan, there to meet and be invested with the dress of honour
which was sent to him by the King, on the festival of No-Rooz.
Although the day of the festival had Ions elapsed, yet the cere
mony did not take place until this time, as the astrologers did not
announce a day sufficiently fortunate for the performance of an
act of so much consequence, &c. • • • • xhe Prince, in order
to be upon the spot, and to put on hisdressexaei/y at the moment
prescribed by the astrologers, issued from the city at a very early
hour."—Page 92.
At page 160, we have the following paragraph :
" On the 21st of October, accompanied by Mahomed Beg, we
reachedCez, and thenextday Morchekhord. MirzaAbul Hassan
LETTER VI. 89
Khan, who was also to have been of the parly, was kept back one
day at Ispahan by the astrologers, who detained him for a happy
conjunction of the planets."
And at page 388, is the following sentence :
" In all the bustle I perceived the King constantly looking at
a watch carried by Shatir Bashi, anxious that he should enter the
gates exactly at the time prescribed by the astrologers.
Mr. Morier (page 389) gives another remarkable
instance of the adherence of the Persian monarch to
astrological superstition :
" As it was necessary to deliver the ratification [of a treaty of
peace] and the letters with proper solemnity, 1 requested that his
Majesty would fix the time and place for receiving them ; and as
the Persians never undertake anything without consulting the
heavens, I was informed that the astrologers had just found that
a lucky hour would intervene on the following day, when we were
to be introduced into the royal presence."
Need we be surprised that where such a system
of mental bondage prevails, " there is nothing to
attach the heart, and that the people, with some ex
ceptions, are false" ? (page 390.) Now, it is to this
state of mental thraldom, that Lieutenant Morrison
would reduce every free-born son of England ; and
this leads me to make some remarks on the doc
trine of fortunate days and hours. At page 3 of
the Horoscope (1834) Zadkiel says,
" We mean by a fortunate day or hour, atime when the Moon
is well situated as regards the planets, being in good aspect with
the benevolent planets, the Sun, &c."
90 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
In this work we have weekly directions for the
regulation of the important concerns of human life,
so far as they are deducible from the aspects of the
heavens. I shall give some extracts :
" May 4th. [Sunday] Unfortunate ; dangerous to travel or go
to sea, or to begin a quarrel, or to drink to eicess ; very unhappy
for marriage, &c. Begin no business by which you would make
money ; but you may deal with surgeons, butchers, or cutlers."
Zadkiel should have remembered the fourth com.
mandment; and that butchers and cutlers may not
be dealt with on the Lord's day.
" 5th. Tolerably good for dealing with booksellers, school
masters, and other literary characters, and for short journeys.
Choose a quarter before ten in the morning to begin your under
takings, eipecially those connected with trade."
But we must follow the example of our Saviour,
and work while it is day, for the night cometh, when
no man can work.—John ix. 4.
"6th. Good day for scientific affairs, journeys, ordealing with
literary men. Choose from ten to halfpast ten in the morning to
set out onjourneys, or begin business ; speak to strangers, &c."
St. Paul says, " Ye observe days, and months,
and times, and years ; I am afraid ofyou, lest I have
bestowed upon you labour in vain."—Gal. iv. 10.
"7th. Not a good day, but if you must begin business or
affairs of any kind, do so between half past ten and ten minutes
past eleven in the morning. Things intended to endure long, such
LETTER VI. 91
as shops, houses, &o. should be begun at eleven o'clock, when the
Moon it coming lo the meridian, and fixed signs are on the horizon
and meridian. [The fixed signs are Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and
Aquarius.] The first stone of buildings, &c. should then be laid,
and if you open a shop, let it be at that hour. Vessels should sail
halfan hour earlier, or thetf will make lono voyaoes."
How much better to commit all to God in prayer,
and say, " Establish thou the work ofour hands upon
us, yea, the work of our hands establish thou it."—
Psalm xc. 17.
" 8th. A very unfortunate day for all undertakings, &c."
But the Scripture says, " Whatsoever thine hand
findeth to do, do it with thy might."—Eccl. ix. 10.
"9th. No good day for any matters, but especially evil for
gaining money ; but if compelled to do anything-, wait till after
four o'clock in the evening, if possible."
But God has created no bad days, and he has
given to man a grant of six in every week, as long
as time shall last, to do all that he has to do.—
Exodus xx. 9.
" 10th. Not fortunate after half past six in the morning, be
fore that hour, commence letters to females."
The ladies are therefore to be feared and shunned
the remainder of the day. Here we have three suc
cessive evil days ; but from the first chap, of Genesis
we find that all the works of God were good ; and
REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
it is here proper to observe, that the rebels against
God's government are spoken of as being " in great
fear where nofear was." A good man is not alarmed
at the evil aspects of astrologers; he fears not their
fear, but the Lord alone is his fear and his dread.
He fears to offend the God he loves. Isaiah viii. 12
and 13.
"llth. [Sunday.] It is a good day forcourtship aboutone in
the afternoon." . .
But see Isaiah lviii. 13.
" 12th. Unfortunate for all proctedingt, especially so for
dispute*."
"The slothful man saith there is a lion with
out, I shall be slain in the streets."—Prov. xxii. 13.
" 13th. This isa good day, pursue yourwishes. Make choice
of the hour of four p.m. or from a quarter beforefour untilfour,
for any matter you please."
But Dr. Johnson says—
Catch then, O ! catch the transient hour,
Improve each moment as it flies ;
Life's a short summer, man a flower,
He dies !—alas ! how soon he dies !
" 22d. This day is also unfortunate, beware of quarrels with
clergymen, magistrates, &e. The evening, however, it morefor
tunate"
That is, then we may venture upon such work.
LETTER VI. 93
" 24th. Evil for all dealings with the female sex."
Heaven, therefore; this day frowns upon one half
of the rational creation !
"June 1. [Sunday.] Thit day is evil till after one o'clock,
when you may write letters, commence short journeys, and ask
favours."
But God has blessed every sabbath in the year,
and commanded us to rest from all mere worldly
occupations.
From the preceding extracts, we may perceive
the wretched state ofdegradation to which Lieutenant
Morrison would reduce us ; he would forge fetters
for our liberty, enchain the volition of the human
mind, and trample upon the laws of God. In Ra
phael's Almanack for 1835, January 11th [Sunday],
is said to be " beneficial for all affairs but matrimony."
January 1 8th [Sunday] " is fortunate for law or other
writings," and January 25th [Sunday] " excellently
good in all matters of land or houses." I have been
thus particular, in order to exhibit the credulous
dotage and maddening absurdity of astrological pro
fessors ; and to show that the counsel of these men'
is contrary to the word of God, and destructive of the
spiritual and temporal interests of mankind. On the
first evening of the discussion, the Lieutenant would
not open his mouth till the Moon had come to the
94 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
meridian, but, like the Persian monarch, stood gazing
at his watch ; and when the expected moment arrived,
he informed the auditory of the reason of his delay ;
they were waiting for the Lieutenant, and he for his
favourite luminary, in whose presence all his hopes
of victory found a resting place : but my own con
fidence was not in the Moon and stars, but in Him
who made them.
The Lieutenant, in his last communication, having
quoted a whole page of his Grammar, (p. 135) says,
" Here, Sir, it will be seen that the general prediction of the
marriage, was stated to be that time shewn by the Sun's aspect 19
days 17J hours, which, at the rate of a year for a day, would be
something less than 19 years 9 months, the age the young lady
was on the 10th of September, 1835. And she was married on
the 7th of July. Was I not right then in saying the autumn
of 1835?"
Certainly not, unless the Lieutenant could prove
July to be an autumnal month ; but I ask him, what
authority he can bring me from the book of nature,
for taking a year for a day in calculating his astro
logical periods ; and, if nature has not furnished him
with this knowledge, where he obtained it? But
he afterward says, " But it must be seen that this
was not a regular [regularly] completed nativity,"
&c. Yes; and therefore I passed on to the final
conclusion to which Zadkiel came, as to the time
LETTER VI. 95
of this marriage, which he states would take place
on the 5th of January, 1836 ; and this is to be found
at page 137 in the Grammar, as quoted in my last
letter ; and I challenge the Lieutenant to deny the
accuracy of my statement. I therefore repeat that
he was not right even in the year. As to the other
secondary arc to which he has alluded, his calculation
comes too late, for we cannot allow him to dance
from arc to arc till he finds one to suit his purpose.
If there were any truth in astrology, the measure
ment of the different arcs supposed to be significant
of the same event, would have one common numerical
extent, and therefore give the same result as to the
period of its accomplishment. The Lieutenant says
that " the principles of horary astrology are totally
different from those of nativities," and that it suits
my purpose "to confound them," Does he mean to
deny the truth of horary astrology ? Will he give
up this branch of the art? Will he abandon that
part of it upon which its professors principally sub
sist ? If not, I repeat, that upon the principles of
horary astrology, evil aspects are formed at the death
of every individual, and I have proved the fact from
Lilly's work. But this doughty champion of the
knights of the stars, asserts that the two horoscopes
mentioned by me are " not horoscopes at all, but
simply horary.figures," &c. and that the "horoscope
96 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
of any person is the figure of the heavens at their
[his] birth, and cannot, of course,. be the same as
that when they ask an astrologer a question as to
any particular event. I will prove that the Lieu
tenant's notion of the word horoscope is incorrect
from Lilly's Horary Astrology (183(i). At page
338, the term is thus defined :
" Horoscope.—The Ascendant is sometimes so called ; but
it is more generally a term for the figure of the heavens used by
astrologers for predicting by nativities, mundane astrology, and
HORARY QUESTIOH8."
Now, where is the Lieutenant's astrological know
ledge ? It would seem that he has not yet learned
his vocabulary ! He charges me, too, with mis
quotation. The error lies in two words; the word
Moon is introduced, and the word very omitted. I
can assure him that this was not intentional ; and
how I came thus unwarrantably to introduce her
ladyship I know not, unless it be, that the Lieutenant
and the Moon are so associated in my mind, that I
can scarcely think of him without thinking of his
lovely goddess. Indeed, the point is scarcelyworthy
of formal notice, as the argument remains undis*
turbed, whether we state the Sun to be cadent or the
Moon to be cadent in Lady King's nativity. As to
the phrases "early in life" and "very early in life,"
I dismiss them with one observation—a drowning
LETTER VI. 97
man will catch at a straw. But the Lieutenant adds,
" I could shew him up in this manner through all
my letters." I invite him to do this ; I challenge
him to make good his words ; for I can boldly affirm,
that the sentiments of every author quoted in my
letters have been fairly represented.
I shall now make some observations on nativities.
Zadkiel defines nativities to be
" The art of foreseeing from the figure of the heavens at the
moment of birth, the futurefate and character of individuals/'—
Preface to the Grammar.
At page 29, we are told, that " the true moment
of birth, is that when the child first draws breath."
If a figure of the heavens be erected for the exact
time at which an infant is born, it is supposed astro-
logically to give the peculiar character and turn of
his mind, a revelation of all the leading incidents of
his life, and a disclosure of the exact period when
he shall leave this world ! But why, at the moment
of birth, are the stars supposed to be charged with
the fate of an individual? Why not at the period of
conception, when nature commences her operations?
In Dr. Sibly's Astrology, such a figure is to be found ;
and we are informed that a scheme of the heavens
for the time of conception, and one for the moment
of birth, are very similar, and differ in no essential
H
REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
circumstances ! But nature gives the lie to the whole
of this system. For, though Zadkicl says that they
who are born under Libra are " tall and elegantly
formed," yet, if we visit the dreary shores of northern
Europe, we find a race of people scarcely ever ex
ceeding five feet high ; and though he adds, that
they who come into the world while this sign is rising
" have a fine clear red and white complexion," yet
if we pass to the tropical regions of Africa, we find,
for the most part, a black population, with flat noses
and thick lips. If we traverse the globe, we perceive
that every country and clime gives to its inhabitants
a peculiar cast of countenance and proportion of
figure, which furnishes a decisive evidence that the
laws of nature here below have their full and com
plete operation independently of any starry influence
above. The general resemblance to be found in
children of the same parents ; the alterations which
frequently take place both in person and character
of the same individuals at different periods of life ;
the extraordinary vicissitudes of fortune, which cha
racterize the career of so many, are destructive of
the principles of astrology; and " mundane aspects
and directions," which are supposed to act upon the
native through life, flee before the power of such
facts. It is well observed in the Penny Cyclopaedia
(Article Astrology), that—
LETTER VI. 99
" Though the subject of a particular horoscope, should travel
over the whole world, and thereby come under the inBuence of
positions of the heavens, which never could have occurred at his
birth place, yet these would be always ready to tell him (when
properly looked at) whether the present moment was favourable
or unfavourable to any pursuit he had in view."
It is clear from the principles of this art, that the
destinies of two persons born at the same time and
place ought to be precisely identical. Zadkiel (Ho
roscope, page 81) says—
',' But if two persons are born at the same time, and at the
same place, there can be no doubt, that their general destiny will
be as nearly the same asthedi^erence of the circumstances of their
parents, Jfc. will permit."
The sentiment, thus guarded, implies, that in
dividuals can scarcely ever rise above the condition
in which they were born ; a supposition which is
confuted by all history; the Scripture says "He
raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the
beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes,"
&c. ( 1 Sam. ii. 8.) Zadkiel afterward observes—
" If the adversaries of astrology can discover instances where
two persons born at the same time and place, had different des
tinies, let them do so ; the onus probandi lies upon them. If they
will bring forward one such fact, it will do more for truth than a
hundred crude arguments, or a thousand idle assertions."
He then makes some observations on the Si amcse
Twins, which it would be easy to answer, but I have
100 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
something more important for him. He asks for one
instance ; I will give him two ; one from Cicero, and
the other from the Bible. Cicero says—
'* Procleset Eurysthenes.Lacedaemoniorum regies, geminifra-
tres fuerunt. At hi nec totidem annosvixerunt; anno Prodi vita
breboir fuit, multumque is fratri rerum gestarum gloria prajstitit."
—" Procles and Eurysthenes, Kings of Lacedsenum were twin
brothers ; but they did not live as many years as each other, for
the life of Procles was shorter by a year, and he far excelled his
brother in the glory of his exploits.
The second instance is from Genesis xxv. 24,
from which we learn that Jacob and Esau were born
of the same mother, at the same time, at the same
place, Jacob's hand taking hold of Esau's heel ;
and that their persons, lives, and fortunes were very
different from each other, their history proves. I
should be very glad if these two facts would operate
upon the Lieutenant as a medicine, by expelling all
the corruptions of astrology from his mental system.
But, perhaps, the most presumptuous part of the
art, is the astrologer's attempting to predict that par
ticular period, I mean the death of an individual,
which God declares is only known to himself. It is
written (Matt. xxv. 13) M Watch therefore, for ye
know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son
of Man cometh." See also Matt. xxiv. 50 and 51.
At page 43 of the Horoscope, are the following
remarks :
LETTER VI. - 101
'* One child may be bom with the Sun rising, and it then
becomes hyleg; [hyleg is ' the body or point which is the giver of
fife'] and may cause death by coming to an ill aspect ofMars and
Mercury, &c. in afew months. Another may be born at the same
place, just five minutes later, when the Sun has risen, and it no
longer hyleg ; the Moon or the stars ascending may then become
hyleg, and may not come to an ill aspect for five hours, or till 75
degrees have gone over the meridian, and then that second child
would live till about the age ofseventy Jive years. Hence, though
the two nativities be as similar as possible in appearance, they
would in reality be immensely different."
Now, when we consider the amazing rapidity
with which the heavenly bodies move, the errors of
clocks and watches, and the many circumstances
which must often baffle the closest observation to
pronounce astrologically on the exact time of the
birth of an infant, together with the solemn decla
rations of Scripture, we perceive that the pretensions
of the astrologer are vain and impious :
" In a word, to sum up all his talents together,
His heart is of lead, and his brain is of feather."
Does the astrologer possess a series of accurate
observations from the time of the Chaldeans to the
present moment, to guide him in his predictions ?
This is often pretended, and the art is spoken of as
orie " that has borne the character of truth for nearly
3000 years;" Ptolemy is also said '/ to have collected
all that appeared to him which was then known of
102 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
the science." Ptolemy is sometimes called " the
Prince of Astrologers," and he is the great authority
to which the modern student refers. Yet Zadkiel,
in his introduction to the Grammar,. confesses that—
" As Ptolemy did not devote the whole of his time to this
study, which would require the entire application of any man's
time to make himself thoroughly and entirely master of it, we
may fairly suppose that some of the less important rules had not
been tested by him personally, but were merely adopted as the
the current opinions of the day. This accounts for a few of his
doctrines being in some degree erroneous,
From this quotation I infer, that as Ptolemy
did not devote the whole of his time to this
study, he never was a master of it, yet his " Tetra-
biblos" has been the great text book of astrologers
for ages. The truth is, a very considerable part of
his life was employed in visiting many of the coun
tries described in his cosmography, and he only passed
a few years at his observatory at Alexandria. And
with regard to astronomical instruments, we are
assured that the ancients laboured under considerable
disadvantages : Sir John Herschel, in his Treatise
on Astronomy (page 65), says—
" Astronomical instrument making may be justly regarded as
the most refined of the mechanical arts, and that in which the
nearest approach to geometrical precision is required, and has
been attained. •••••• • Every imperfection of
structure or division becomes magnified by the whole optical
LETTER VI. 103
power of that instrument. ••••••• An angle
of one minute occupies on the circumference of a circle of 10
inches of radius, only about 1-350U) part of an inch, a quantity
too email to be certainly dealt with without the use of magnifying
glasses ; yet one minute is a gross quantity in the astronomical
measurement in an angle. With the instruments now employed
in observatories, a single second, or the 60ih part of a minute, it
rendered a distinctly visible and appreciable quantity. Now, the
arc of a circle subtended by one second is less than the 200,000th
part of the radius, so that on a circle of6 feet in diameter, it would
occupy no greater linear extent than 1 -5,700th part of an inch ;
aquantityrequiringapowerful microscope to be discerned at all."
Now, the ancients had neither telescopes nor
microscopes, and when we consider " those inaccu
racies which may arise from the unequal contraction
and expansion of the metallic masses by a change of
temperature, and their unavoidable flexure or bending
by their own weight," we perceive that their obser
vations must often have been grossly erroneous.
Zadkiel also, in his new edition of Lilly's Horary
Astrology (page 33) says—
" Dr. Goad assures us that the astronomers could not, in the
days of Charles II. calculate an opposition of the planets Jupiter
and Saturn nearer than a week. How, then, can it be expected
that the judgments of astrologers should have always been cor
rect, when the very data on which they depended were often
erroneous?"
But have the principles been always the same
upon which nativities have been calculated ? Zad
kiel, in his introduction to the Grammar (p.xvi), says,
104 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
" AU the host of English astrologers, such as Lilly, Colley,
Sibly, Gadbury, White, &c. were immersed in error when they
treated on nativities ; they embraced the follies of the Arabian
astrologers, o)c."
But are they now agreed upon the subject ? Nos
At page 74 of the Grammar, I find the following
observations :
" Mr. Wilson, in his Dictionary of Astrology (page 306),
says, that the parr •/ fortune ' is really nothing but a phantom,
hatched in the figurative brain of Ptolemy, which has no influence
whatever :' I certainly must demur to this diotum, as I have found
by experience, &o."
And at p. 79 of the Horoscope, the editor, in op
position to many authorities, says—
"We have no opinion of the power of the louses, or other
essential dignities of the planets, in nativities."
Raphael also does not hold the doctrine of Zodi
acal Directions in very high estimation, and observes,
that he only gives rules for their calculation, lest his
work should appear incomplete without them; he
coincides with a high authority, in opinion that those
which are commonly denominated secondary di
rections should be considered as the primary ones ;
and I believe that the Zodiacal directions are entirely
discarded by the Arabians.
These remarks, together with other differences of
sentiment, noticed in my former letters, are more than
LETTER VI. 105
sufficient to prove that the professors of this art have
never conducted their calculations upon uniform prin
ciples; and the ancients, being destitute of good
instruments for observation, and having no correct
lunar tables, so essential to an astrologer, were inca
pable of transmitting to us any certain conclusions,
which should furnish a basis for the calculation
of nativities. It was my intention, Mr. Editor, with
this letter to close my remarks upon astrology, but
finding that you cannot afford me sufficient space
for this, on account of your report of parliamentary
intelligence, I postpone till next week, the considera
tion of the remainder of the subject, with the promised
facts, together with some remarks on the committal
of an astrologer, mentioned in a London paper, as a
rogue and a vagabond.
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
LETTER VII.
Sir,
Reason is that great and glorious faculty, which
God has imparted to man, as a responsible being, to
enable him to distinguish truth from error, that he
may pursue the one, and avoid the other. Before
the Fall, its exercise was perfect ; but since that
awful catastrophe, the clouds which have gathered
over the human mind, forbid us to trust implicitly to
its guidance. Infallibility is for ever departed from
the human species, so that it is truly said " Humanum
est errare." It is only in God's light that we can
now see light; (Ps. xxxvi. 9.) and consequently it is
writ'en "Through thy precepts, I get understanding,
therefore, I hate every false way." (Ps. cxix. 104.)
It is further declared that " He that trusteth in his
own heart is a fool." (Prov. xxviii. 26.)
" Declare ye sages, if ye find
'Midst animals of every kind,
Of each condition, sort, and size,
From whales and elephants to flies,
A creature that mistakes his plan,
And errs so constantly as man."
Wiliie.
LETTER VII. 107
" Is reason then from human weakness free,
Partakes she not of our infirmity ! Pope.
Reason, therefore, unassisted by heaven, will
never preserve a man from the labyrinths of error, or
extricate him from them, when entangled : but
though "Thorns and snares are in the way of the
froward" (Prov. xxii. 5.) there is a special promise
of deliverance to the people of God, if unwarily
caught in them :—" Surely he shall deliver thee from
the snare of the fowler." (Psalm xci. 3.) Man,
being " born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward"
(Job v. 7.) often needs the delivering arm of Jeho
vah, but woe be to him, if he seek counsel of an
astrologer :—" Woe to the rebellious children saith
the Lord that take counsel but not of me." (Isa.
xxx. 1.) That Astrology is a dangerous snare to
the human intellect, is generally allowed ; and
if we desire fully to investigate its principles, and
expose their absurdity, we must not only bring to
the subject the exercise of our reason, but that
word which "is a lamp unto our feet and a light
unto our path." (Ps. cxix. 105.) This I have
endeavoured to do in the review I have taken of this
"Mystery of Iniquity." In the Horoscope (p.
138) is an extract from Godwin's Lives of the Ne
cromancers : and .Zadkiel has here poured upon the
author all the lava of astrological rage, for having
108 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
denominated the subject which swallows up all his
thoughts and feelings " a supposed science," and for
having charged it with upholding fatality. Poor
Mr. Godwin is reviled because he has not " got rid
of his nursery notions," and Zadkiel, foaming with
astrological ire, says, " We dare engage for all that
we are worth in the world, that he never tried an
experiment to see whether it be true or not." That
is,—Mr. Godwin never made an experiment to as
certain whether God governs the world according to
the maxims of astrology—whether George IV. de
rived "a fondness for dissipation," from the planet
Venus which ascended at his birth (Gram. p. 11.)
Let no man dare for a moment to question the holiness
and purity of God ; for he who will venture upon
such an experiment as this—he who will have the
temerity to make it a pkoblem whether God can
"deny himself" (2 Tim. ii. 13) and depart from his
attributes, deserves to perish in his folly and presump
tion. " Happy is the man that feareth alway."
(Pro. xxviii. 14.) When Mr. JohnWesley was asked,
if he had read Paine's Age of Reason, he replied, No :
and added, that he had no desire to make an experi
ment, to see how much poison his constitution would
bear. Zadkiel, however, misapplying the words
of Bacon, says, "Fiat experimentum." But the
Christian says, " Fear the Lord and depart from evil."
LETTER VII. 109
(Prov. iii. 7.) It is an essential part of Christian
watchfulness to avoid temptation, and to " remove
the foot from evil." (Prov. iv. 27.) His prayer is
" Remove far from me vanity and lies;" (Prov. xxx.
8.) for " The law of the wise is a fountain of life to
depart from the snares ofdeath." (Prov. xiii. 14.)
Dr. Owen has forcibly remarked that " He who does
not fear temptation, does not fear sin."—This subject
may be illustrated by some considerations connected
with the ancient Temple of Delphi. We are in
formed by Justin (241. 6. c.) that it was built on
Mount Parnassus, Over a cavern, from which issued
a vapour so strong that it threw such as breathed it
into convulsions. The frenzy which was thus pro
duced, was represented as the effect of prophetic
enthusiasm ; and the incoherent expressions which
escaped from the Pythia or Priestess, who was
placed over the opening of the cavern on a circular
tripod, pierced with holes, were supposed to contain
infallible predictions respecting future events. Now
it is against inhaling any of the Astrological vapour,
that I would caution the reader : for " We wrestle
not against flesh and blood, but against principalities,
against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of
this world, against spiritual wickedness in high
places." (Eph. vi. 12.) When a wise man per
ceives Blasphemy inscribed on the portals of a
110 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
temple, he has no wish to view the interior, but says
" O my soul come not thou into their secret." (Gen.
xlix. 6.) Now, though the wise and learned, have
in all ages of the world opposed the principles of the
Starry Prophets, as a delusion of the Prince of
Darkness, yet a few solitary exceptions are here and
there to be found : occasionally some eccentric
genius has been more or less ensnared. Origen,
who flourished a.d. 230, believed the stars to be
rational beings, but had DO faith in their influence;
he considered them as simply foretelling the events
which should hereafter take place. He was given to
curious speculations which led him into many errors.
His attachment to the Platonic philosophy often
caused him to advance notions contrary to the
Scriptures. His most considerable errors related to
the pre-existence of souls, and the finite duration of
future punishment. Kepler is also claimed as a
friend to, what Sir Walter Scott calls, " the Queen
of Mystic Sciences." The mind of this extraordinary
man, evidently, was somewhat affected with the
astrological vapour. A modern writer observes that
'• His life was passed in speculating on the results of
a few principles, assumed by him from very pre
carious analogies, as the causes of the phenomena
actually observed in nature." He, however, arrived
at some results, which have won him the admiration
LETTER VII. Ill
of the world : his general sentiments respecting
astral influence will be given in the appendix to the
small volume which I hope shortly to publish ; but
that he was no friend to astrological fortune tellers,
I shall now prove by the following extract :
" I have not formed an opinion on this matter, without good
grounds, like the common herd of prophesiers, who describe the
operations of the stars, as if they were a sort of deities, the lords
of heaven and earth, and producing evety thing at their pleasure.
They never trouble themselves to consider what means the stars
have of working any effects upon us in the earth, whilst they
remain in the sky, and send down nothing to us which is obvious
to the senses, except rays of light. This is the principal source
of the filthy astrological superstitions of that vulgar and childish
race of dreamers, the prognosticatoi'S."
Kepler, in the wild excursions of his fancy,
evidently resembled Origen : " he actually and
literally professed to believe that the earth was
an enormous living animal," and some of the details
connected with this strange opinion I intend to give
in my Refutation of Astrology.* That Kepler had
some faith in the influenco of the stars upon this
lower world is clear; but he said, that he could
" never think of handing over to them the office of
deities to produce effects." Seeing, therefore, that
some great minds have, to a certain extent, been
infected with astrological superstition, surely, those
• Appendix, No. 14.
112 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
of a more humble order should keep at a distance
from danger, and not approach this Maelstroom of
folly, lest they be engulphed and for ever destroyed.
No astrologer shall enter the kingdom of Heaven;
and the reason i3, because he robs God of his glory,
perverts his truth, and deceives men.— See I Cor.
vi. 9 and 10. Also Rev. xxii. 15. "If the blind
lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch." (Matt.
xv. 14.) I would rather die the death of a drunkard,
appalling as such a death would be, than die an
Astrologer. The drunkard passes into eternity as a
rebel against the Divine government, but the Astro
loger as charging his Maker with iniquity ; the
drunkard leaves the world as an open transgressor,
but the Astrologer appears before God, as an in-
siduous hypocrite ; the drunkard has sinned against
the precepts of revelation, but the Astrologer, pro
fessing to revere them, has wrested them to his own
destruction ; the drunkard may be compared to those
who laid violent hands on the Saviour, bu$ the Astro
loger to Judas who betrayed him with a kiss ; and
if the drunkard's punishment exceed that of Sodom,
so we have reason to believe that the Astrologer's
will surpass that of Capernaum. (Matt. xi. 24.)
The sin of the Astrologer is of that peculiar nature,
of so daring a description, connected with such pride,
arrogance, and self-sufficiency, so closely allied to
LETTEK VII. 113
Lucifer's trangressiqn in heaven, that it must be
greatly offensive to God ; the astrologer says, I will
" shew the things that are to come hereafter ;" (Isa.
xli. 23.) " / will be like the most high." (Isa.
xiv. 14.) These remarks are general : I pass no
judgment upon any one; but compare two cha
racters, to whom God has given no repentance,—
the dying tippler, and the dying star-gazer.
Zadkiel may now again exclaim " Shade of
honest Kepler, Spirit of Lord Bacon defend us!"
(Hor. p. 139.) but could these philosophers rise
from their graves, Kepler would say, " Your cause
is hopeless," (Life, p. 13.) and Bacon, " You aim at
pleasing God by a lie." (Novum Organum.) But
why should he call upon the dead for defence ? for
this apostrophe is immediately preceded by the fol
lowing acknowledgment :
" If Mr. Godwin be right, the astrologers of all ages must
have been among the worst of men ; they should be (Ought for
not amongst philosophers ' of great talent, distinguished for the
soundness of their reasoning powers,' but among the vilest of cha
racters, the malefactors of ' almost all nations and ages of the
world'—men destitute alike of ' all human dignity and all
human virtue.' "
Zadkiel evidently assumes that astrologers cannot
be the vilest of characters and amongst the worst of
i
114 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
men, and therefore infers that his art is true. In the
Horoscope he has pretended to predict many earth
quakes; but he knows not how soon there may be
one in his own bosom, and " a dreadful sound in his
ears" (Job xv. 21) of approaching destruction. A
few remarks shall now be made on some nativities in
the Horoscope; and I commence with that of Earl
Grey. Passing by some points which are replete
with matter for poignant satire, I present the reader
with the following quotation :
" Several other evil testimonies are evident [i.e. from the
planets' places on the day of Lord Grey's resignation] ; but the
most remarkable is the fact that the evil Saturn was exactly 4
degrees 52 minutes in Libra, the very place to a minute of the
Dragon's tail (the Moon's south node) at the moment of
birth! This perhaps will be considered as the work of chance,
£[c. It may be worth the trouble to see what the chances are for
and against this event. The planet Saturn passes through the
zodiac once in 29J years [nearly 30 years] ; so that the utmost
number of times he can have passed the place of the Dragon's
tail in Lord Grey's nativity, since his Lordship's birth, is nine.
This is supposing him to have gone over it three times, owing to
his retrograding, on each occasion; but we knew that he did
not retrograde over it in 1803, therefore he has passed it onlyseven
times at most. The number of days Lord Grey had lived on the
9th instant was 25,685 ; hence the chances were 25,685 to 7,
that Saturn would not be passing the Dragon's tail on the day
his Lordship resigned ; or 3669 chances against the event, forone
chance in its favour ! Surely, this will be admitted to be a lottery
in which astrologers may venture, without meriting the reproach
of very great credulity V—Page 90.
LETTER VII. 115
This is produced by Zadkiel as a triumphant
evidence of the truth of astrology ; and certainly
Saturn's situation at such a time was a peculiar
temptation ; but eager as Zadkiel was to catch at it,
he ought to have remembered what he had written
in his Grammar the preceding year, respecting the
Dragon's Tail :
" This also can only affect the Moon. When she arrives at
the degree it was in at birth, evil is said to attend : I have seen
only one instance, where a child lost her father at the time. It is
worthy of the student's attention."—Page 68.
In Lilly's Horary Astrology (page 10) the author
says—
" In nativities, these characters [the Dragon's head and tail]
have no avail, and are not to be considered except with regard to
the Moon, who is found to produce good or evil,when she reaches
them by direction."
Then why has Zadkiel considered them with
regard to Saturn in Lord Grey's nativity ? He
then says that on the 9th of July, 1834, when Lord
Grey resigned the office of prime minister, Saturn
was in that point of the zodiac occupied by the
Dragon's tail at the period of his Lordship's birth ;
and yet, he well knows that in nativities, Saturn
and all the primary planets are wholly unconnected
with the Dragon's tail, which being claimed by Lady
Luna, as her south node, she will not allow him or
116 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
any other sciolist, to deprive her of her just rights
and privileges. 1 leave Lieutenant Morrison, who
has all his life long had a sincere affection for Zad-
kiel, to extricate him, if he can, out of this difficulty,
and vindicate his astrological honesty.
I pass on to Lord Brougham's nativity. Zadkiel
commences his observations (Horoscope, page 129)
by observing that the "figure of birth is a powerful
proof of the truth of the doctrine of nativities." His
Lordship " was born with Saturn ascending in
Scorpio." (Lilly, page 27, Note.) In the Grammar
(page 9) are the following remarks :
" When he [Saturn] is rising or setting at birth, the person
born will suffer much lingering sickness, and be very subject to
blows, bruises, and falls. • • • • • Persons born under
his influence are nervous,fearful, bashful, cowardly, melancholy,
and given to shed tears. [At page 6.]—" Scorpio : Thick, well-
set, middle-sized person, &c."
The Lieutenant knows that in this nativity, the
ascendant has but 4° 8' of Libra, and that the rest of
the house is occupied by Scorpio, and therefpre in
the note quoted above, he says " Lord Brougham,
who was born with Saturn ascending in Scorpio,
&c." In the Horoscope (page 123), we are told that
" Saturn in Scorpio produces melancholy, palsy,
gout in the hands and feet." Zadkiel was aware
that in giving his judgment on this nativity he must
LETTER VII. 117
say but Utile either of Saturn or Scorpio ; and it is
curious to observe how he has softened down their
influences, and directed his principal attention to
other parts of the figure ; and to help forward his
cause, he has made a conjunction where there is
none, for Venus and Mercury are not within the orbs
of influence. In the Grarnmar (page 7) Zadldel says,
" If the latter part of a sign be on the cusp of the ascendant,
a portion ofthe next sign must also be in the ascendant, and then
the nativewill partake of both influences. A person, for instance,
having' the latter part of Sagittary rising, and the whole of Capri
corn in the ascendant, may have a fine head of hair, and a hand-
someforehead, but the rest of the face and person extremelyugly."
Now, in the nativity of Lord Brougham, the
latter part of Libra is rising ; but the rest of the
first house is occupied by Scorpio ; the description,
therefore, ofhis Lordship's head should be taken from
the former sign, and the rest of his person from the
latter; proceeding thus, I say Lord B.'s "hair is a
light auburn or flaxen, his face round and lovely,
and having great beauty ; fine clear red and white
complexion." He is also " a thick, well set, middle-
sized person," probably " bow-legged or club-footed,"
and " deceitful as the scorpion." As Mars is near
the mid-heaven, and in a fiery sign, he is a soldier ;
and, Mercury having just risen above the eastern
horizon, points him out as a light horseman; but,
118 REFUTATION OF ASTKOLOGY.
Saturn being in the ascendant, is an evidence that
he will never attain any degree of eminence in his
profession. From the situation of Saturn, together
with Jupiter's throwing a semiquartile aspect to the
ascendant, we may conclude that his Lordship's life
has been a continued series of misfortunes ; and the
Moon being in the tenth house, and in sextile aspect
with Mercury, and Mercury in trine to Herschel,
has made his Lordship an astrologer ; but the Moon
being in semisquare with Mercury, the learned
native " is inclined to dishonesty." (Gram. p. 15.)
This is my judgment of the figure, according to
the general principles of the art. It is true, Zadkiel
has given a very different one ; for having taken into
consideration the leading events of his Lordship's
life, and also " having repeatedly sat in his Lordship's
company" (Horoscopo, page 130), he was enabled
to arrange the " heavenly matter" with some degree
ofprecision. Dr. Sibly observes, that —
" The quality of the heavenly matter is often conjectural and
the mixture! of the different aspects and influences are sometimes
to complicated, that the brightest understanding can scarcely ar
range them with precision."
Zadkiel knowing this, took all circumstances
into consideration before he summed up and gave
his judgment. I could easily multiply my descrip
tions of the heavenly matter in this nativity and
LETTER VII. 119
others; but "Ex uno disce omnes."—As to Lady
King's nativity, I proved at the discussion, that the
horoscope afforded materials for a very different ac
count of her person from that given by Zadkiel ;
that if the figure was correct, she ought to have "a
scraggy neck" (Grammar, page 4), and a sort of
dark greasy red hair, the odour of which did not at
all resemble that of otto of roses.—I shall make but
one remark on the nativity of Prince George of
Cumberland. In the Horoscope (page 146), he is
said to have become blind, when the direction of the
Moon to the trine of Saturn came up, which was
when he was 13 years and 3 months old ; but in the
Grammar (page 64), I read, that—" The trine or
sextile of Saturn to the ascendant or the Moon,
renders the native grave and steady !"—and here I
terminate my observations on the genethliacal part
of astrology.
Now for a few words on the Lieutenant's letter.
He intimates that the advice he gave respecting the
transactions of certain worldly affairs on the Lord's
Day was " an oversight ;" but, as he regulated it
according to the aspects of the planets, it is evident
that the principles of astrology are the Devil's own
manufacture ; as they hold out inducements, by a
promise of wordly benefit, to violate the sanctity of
the Sabbath. The Lieutenant has understood, that
120 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
in my letters, I have been assisted by some Clergy
man : but? as this has no foundation in truth, the
Stars must have been his informants. His quota
tions from Scripture are misapplied. Inward charity
is not incompatible with public duty, even when the
performance of the latter may wear a severe aspect:
there is a charity which we owe to mankind at
large. If the Lieutenant has really made efforts
to put money into my pocket, how is it they have
not succeeded? If he had been sincere and hearty
in his exertions, he would have chosen his time
well, set a figure for the purpose, went astro-
logically to work, then the sovereigns would have
rolled in. Why did he not thus proceed, if he
wished to paralyze the energies of his opponent?
for " riches may be obtained by various means
which the astrologer can point out." (Horoscope,
page 85.) As to the word horoscope, I am borne
out in its use by Lilly's definition of that term.
With regard to the evil aspects, I will give him
another case :—Stellarius says (page 36)—
" My son, who had for some time been dangerously ill, was
seized with convulsions on the 26th of November, 1833, for which
I drew a figure of the heavens, &c. I consequently predicted
that he would die on the first critical day in which the Moon was
afflicted, and without benefit, viz.: on the 9th of December fol
lowing, when the Moonformed a conjunction of Mars, and strange
as it may appear to some, he died on that very day ; Sol, his
LETTER VII. 121
significator in this scheme, being then in conjunction with Mer
cury, lord of the twelfth. This is a curious coincidence to those
M
who are unacquainted with the principles of astrology ; for Mer
cury was lord of the ascendant in the first figure,and the Sun
lord of the fourth, and here they are in conjunction at the time of
his dissolution ; Mercury being in his detriment, and combust."
Two cases from Lilly, and one from Stellarius
ought to settle the point respecting the evil aspects.*
The Lieutenant says, " Frequently many hours
elapse without any evil aspect in the zodiac, as on
the 8th of last January, and yet persons are always
coming into the world." Yes, and going out of it :
astrological principles are therefore at variance
with facts. He thanks me for correcting his gram
mar ; for this he is very welcome ; but his comma will
not save his credit; for the word regular is evidently
meant to qualify the participial adjective completed,
and not the noun nativity, and therefore the adverb
should have been employed : — " not a regular com
pleted nativity" is incorrect English. A challenge
is given in the Horoscope to produce one instance,
where two persons born at the same time and place
had different destinies ; I have produced two ; but
now the Lieutenant flies from the point, and takes
refuge in the minutes which must elapse between
the birth of the twins : very few I apprehend be
tween that of Jacob and Esau. These saving
* Appendix, No. 15.
122 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
minutes, however, of the Lieutenant are fatal to his
general cause, for reasons which he well understands.
His prediction respecting Ferdinand of Naples, I
intend considering in my next letter, when a num
ber of interesting facts, conclusive against astro
logy, will be laid before the public. The preten
sions of astrologers to a course of observations from
the time of the Chaldeans, I reserve for the Ap
pendix to my Refutation of Astrology.*
In the Globe (January 21st, 1S36), is an ac
count of the committal of Chas. Paddon, an astrologer,
for having obtained 2s. 6d. of Sarah Hemington, wife
of a policeman. A card, with the address of the
professor, had been given to her by a female friend ;
and, she being desirous to be made acquainted with
some particulars respecting her future destiny, went
to Mr. Paddon's residence. The following is a copy
of his card :
" The Astrologer of the Nineteenth Century, 32, Grafton
street, Tottenham Court road. By knowing the time of birth, we
are enabled to read in the heavens the story of our whole lives.
N.B.—All letters must be post paid. Please to ring the first
floor bell."
When Mrs. Hemington rang the bell, the door
was instantly opened, and she introduced to the
astrologer, who was enveloped in a large dressing
• Appendix, No. 16.
LETTER VII. 123
gown, seated in an immense arm chair, with a num
ber of books, cards, &c, before him, and in the act
of making various figures of an extraordinary des
cription, on a sheet of black edged paper. On seeing
her, he bowed lowly his head, and requested her to
take a seat, which she did, and made known to him
her wishes. ; He then, looking stedfastly in her face,
asked her if she was married ? She replied in the
affirmative, when he directly demanded of her half
a crown, which was paid. He next examined her
hand, and thrice passing his finger over the various
lines, turned his attention to some hieroglyphics on
a slate by his side, and addressing her, said—
" Madam, yovr husband will soon die, but you will ihortly
after marry again, go abroad, have a numerous family, become
possessed of a large property, and, if the stars tell true, lice to a
good old age!"
He mysteriously waved his hand thrice, and told
her she might depart and be happy. She then went
down stairs, but on opening the street door, her
husband, who had received some hint of his wife's
folly, with Serjeant Marriott, of his division, went
and took the astrologer into custody.
This was a circumstance of which the stars had
given the professor no intimation : he appeared
almost planet-struck, and exclaimed "lam ruined !"
If any evil direction in his nativity was then in
124 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
operation, he somehow bad overlooked it; but re
collecting that every man's dwelling is his castle,
and he being well-dignified, and in his own house,
and also remembering the first maxim of astrology—
" the planets influence, but do not compel"
(Horoscope, page 121), he made " much resistance ;"
and whatever might be the aspects above, his own
aspect bespoke anything but benevolence. At this
time, if a figure of the heavens had been erected, no
doubt the evil Saturn and the lord of the twelfth*
would have been found in the sevenths house,
and the Moon in via combustia. His significator
was probably cadent, and in a moveable sign, and
also afflicted by an opposition of Herschel, and re
ceiving no assistance from the benefics, " the influence
was too powerful" to be overcome. (Horoscope,
page 59.) The officers, therefore, paying no respect
to his awful gown, his great arm-chair and mysterious
figures, formed such a close conjunction with their
prisoner, that he was forced to abandon the emblems
of his profession, and having transited the cusp of his
own house, he proceeded by directional motion to
Hatton Garden. In reply to the charge, he said—
"That he had studied the science of astrology for many years,
and that in no one instance had his predictions proved false. He
• The house of imprisonment,
t Has signification of the artist.
LETTER VII. 125
had no wish to impose upon an; one, and was of opinion that his
calling was as legitimate and fair as that of any person in the
realm."
The magistrates, however, through their "stupid
ignorance," of the subject, not thinking exactly as
he did, committed this astrologer as a rogue and a
vagabond to the house of correction. Whatever
might now be his opinion of " the twelve houses of
heaven," he found to his great detriment* the reality
of one on the earth, the quartile dimensions of which
would afford him but littlejoy,f for having had such
afall,% he would remain there completely peregrine,
without any essential dignity This star-expounding
knave, who pretended to anticipate time, and name
the events of distant years, knew not that the officers
of justice were at hand, to conduct him to the bar
of a British tribunal for violating the laws of his
country—and that he should that night sleep in a
prison, if his conscience would allow him any repose ;
and were it not for the long-suffering of a gracious
God, he might have been summoned to the tribunal
above, and consigned to an eternal prison, where
• Detriment is the sign opposite to the house of any planet :
when a planet is thus situated it is a sign of weakness and distress.
t Theplanets have particularsignsin which they aresaid tojoy.
J Aplanet is in itsfall,when inthe sign opposite toits exaltation.
126 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
there is weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth.
" Because sentence against an evil work is not ex
ecuted speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of
men is set in them to do evil." Eccles. viii. 1 1.) But
that being being often reproved, hardeneth his neck,
" He shall suddenly be destroyed and that with
out remedy." (Prov. xxix. I.)
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
LETTER VIII.
Sir,
It is well known that several of our almanacks con
tain astrological predictions; and from the popularity
of some of them, it is to he apprehended, that much
evil results to the community, from their publication ;
and that many persons of weak minds and limited
education are drawn aside from the dictates of
sound reason, to give credence to the annual croak-
ings of the wily adventurers in the cause of super
stition. The brazen-faced confidence assumed by
our " monthly prognosticated," the pretended ful
filment of their former predictions, and the awful
endeavours of this venal tribe to make the sacred
volume speak the language of astrology, are dan
gerous snares to the unwary. It is to be feared that
many of the sons and daughters of Great Britain are
led by the perusal of their bombastic fooleries, to
exchange their habits of honest simplicity and in
128 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
dustry for the wild vagaries of a wayward fancy,
and that restless irregular conduct which results
from a discontented spirit, and a pe rturbed intellect'
" Illins occursus eliam vitare memento,
la cujus manibus, cen pinguia succina, tritas
Cernis ephemeridas ; qua; nullum consulit, etjam
Consulilur." Juvenal.
" Beware the woman too, and shun her sight,
\Vho, in these studies does herself delight,
By whom a greasy almanack is borne,
With often handling, like chaft timber, worn ;
Mot now consulting, but cousulted, she
Of the twelve houses, and their lords is free."
These considerations have induced me to offer
some observations on mundane astrology, which, in
the preface to Zadkiel's Grammar, is defined to be
"The art of foreseeing, by the positions ofthe heavenly bodies
at certain periods, the circumstances of nations, such as wars,
pestilences, inundations, earthquakes, &c."
And here I must again remind the reader, that
all the empires, kingdoms, cities, and towns of the
world, are supposed to be ruled by some of the
heavenly bodies ; but whether the planets, the signs
of the zodiac, or both, be invested with this dominion,
is a question which yet remains unsettled among the
professors ; every astrologer has his own system for
prediction, and with inflexible tenaciousness, asserts
LETTER VIII. 129
its infallibility. Lilly informs us (Horary Astrology,
page 38) that, according to some late authors—
" Saturn rulesover Saxony,Bavaria, Stiria, Romandiola, Ra
venna, Constantia, anil Ingoldstadt;" [and, in page40,thatj "Ba
bylon, Persia, Hungary, Spain and Cullen, are ruled by Jupiter."
But Zadkiel declares that be has
" No opinion of the rule of the planets over different coun
tries ; but in mundane astrology, the signs which rule over thein
must be observed."
Dr. Sibly, however, coinciding with Lilly, as
cribes to the planets, as well as the signs, a powerful
dominion over the different countries of the globe.
At page 47, Lilly makes Arabia, Austria, Vienna,
Polonia, Turin, Parthia, Media, and Cyprus, subject
to Venus ; but Zadkiel dissents from this, and affirms
that these places are not ruled by Venus, but by
Taurus and Libra, the houses of that fair planet.
Lilly, however, makes Taurus to preside over
" Ireland, Persia, Great Poland, Asia Minor, theArchipelago,
and the Southern parts of Russia ; also the towns of Dublin,
Mantua, Leipsic, Parma, Franconia, Lorrain ; also the islands
of Cyprus and Sam06, and the port and vicinity of Navarino."
Page 59.
Yet, notwithstanding this difference of sentiment,
which prevails among the astrological doctors upon
this matter, and though many of the arrangements
K
130 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
are comparatively recent, yet it is impudently asserted
that " the principles of astrology are now what
they were three thousand years ago among the
Babylonians."
At page 20 of the Horoscope, we have the fol
lowing observations :
" The city of Paris has been found to be ruled by Virgo ;
London by Gemini, the nineteenth degree especially, which very
degree ascended at the moment when the first pile of the New
London Bridge was driven, &c. • • • # • We have as
certained that the ruling sign of Liverpool is Scorpio, and that the
nineteenth degree of Scorpio is its ascendant, &c. !"
Now, were all the sons of astral science as
sembled—were it possible, I could ask the whole
posse comitatus what the nineteenth degree ofGemini
has to do with the driving of the first pile of London
bridge; or the nineteenth degree of Scorpio with the
laying of the first stone of the Custom house, at
Liverpool, they would be astounded at the interro
gatory ! If there be no connexion between such
buildings and these degrees of the ecliptic, mundane
astrology is false ; and if there be, new bridges,
custom houses, &c. ought to be commenced every day
at London or Liverpool ; for the lOth degree of
Gemini, and the 19th degree of Scorpio, are in the
horizon of those places respectively every twenty
four hours throughout the year ; and I will give the
LETTER VIII. 131
"Astrological Society of Great Britain," though
instituted secundum artem, the rest of their existence
to get free from this absurdity.
I will not fatigue the patience of your readers,
or exhaust my own, by making more extracts upon
this subject ; I have already proved in a former letter,
that the very division of the ecliptic into signs and
degrees is the work of art and not of nature : this
consideration, together with the procession of the
equinoxes, deprives the astrologer of his very data
for prediction ; leaves him without principles; and
exhibits him to the world, as a hair-brained enthu
siast, who, " in the greatness of his folly'' (Prov.
v. 23), has departed from every principle of sound
reason. I promised, in my last, to notice Zadkiel's
predictions respecting Ferdinand of Naples.
" The position of Saturn in square aspect to the Sun's place
in the nativities of Frederick King of Denmark, and Charles
XIV.King of Sweden and Norway, denotes much sorrow to these
royal personases. But chiefly may the traitor King tremble in
his shoes ; he will ere long make up his account ; even now he is
full of grief. Warlike deeds are rife in many lands. [When
were they not.J King- Otho weeps lor Greece, and his father for
Bavaria; nor may Charles Amadeus be tranquil, even in Sardinia.
And thou, Ferdinand of Naples, art grieved ! And England !
Alas ! that enemy of peace, the evil Herschel, is this month again
traversing- the San's place when William IV. was born."
The preceding quotation is " The voice of the
stars for January, 1836," but no distent event is
132 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
predicted. That out of a number of royal houses,
sorrow would shortly pay a visit to one of them, we
should have supposed without consulting the heavens.
It appears Ferdinand of Naples was to be grieved.
Now, a man may be grieved in ten thousand ways ;
but whether this prince was to suffer from his own
misconduct, or the rebellion of his subjects; from
some personal affliction, or from a foreign enemy ;
from the loss of a limb, or the loss of his wife, Zad-
kiel knew about as much as his readers ; but when
he hears of the death of the Queen of Naples, all
the world is called upon to idolize him as a prophet.
If a similar event had occurred to any other of the
royal personages, this disciple of Lilly would have
quoted his prescience ! While thousands of failures
are concealed and forgotten, anyfaint glimmering of
success is deceptively magnified and industriously
circulated.
A peculiar feature in modern astrology is the
continual prediction of evil. The Horoscope, nearly
in every page, teems with the presages of impending
calamities. At page 85, Stellarius says—
'* Those who consult astrologers, but imagine that the evils
predicted will never take place, are equally as bad as the un
believing, and lose all the benefit of their information, for want
of caution."
The Scriptures, however, declare that " Sufficient
unto the day is the evil thereof" (Matt. vi. 24) ;
LETTER VIII. 133
and that a good man " Shall not be afraid of evil
tidings; his heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord."
(Psalm cxii. 7.) Perhaps it is not generally known
that astrologers speak of themselves as the vice
gerents of God. At page 71, Stellarius observes,
that thousands render themselves miserable for life
" By entering precipitately into the state of wedlock, without
having first enquired of God, (or through the means appointed by
Him, [an astrologer] which is the same thing !) whether they are
doing right or wrong."
But it is written in Jeremiah (xiii. 5), '* Thus
saith the Lord, cursed be the man that trusteth in
man, and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart
departeth from the Lord." See also James i. 5.
The astrological scribblers of the present day endea
vour to create fear and disquietude in every bosom,
that they may be consulted as to the best means of
escaping from the evil influences hanging over the
world : they spare no rank, no station, our beloved
monarch himself not excepted. At p. 43 ofZadkiel's
Almanack for 1836, the prophet tells us that Leopold
Louis, Prince of Belgium, " will never live to reign in
Belgium," and that, "as astrology is not believed in,
he will suffer all the force of his evil stars, and fall ;"
and "at the age of three years and a quarter he will
beat the brink of death!" his father also, "may
probably lose his crown."
134 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
At p. 34. we have the following announcement :
"Some elderly person connected with the Post O/ffwisin
disgrace ; or, it may be that what I foresee is the death of the
Postmaster General."
At page 41, is the nativity of Isabella II. Queen
of Spain :
" The whole face of the nativity isunfortunate, denoting' much
sickness and personal suffering ; a very weak constitution and an
early death : she will never sit on the throne of her ancestors."
There is a hint also respecting the death of her
mother.—At page 40, is the nativity of King William
IV. Zadkiel here says
" About the 28th or 29th of May, some evil transits will give
the King vexation—if not illness to himself [italics] it may be to
some of his family, &c. The 26th of June is especially full of
trouble to the King and nation generally, and all the month of
July ; the last week particularly. This will be an evil and truly
unfortunate summer to Willi*** the Fourth. His health will
suffer about the 26th of June, and he will then be in danger of
accidents to his arms or shoulders."
Last year, some intimations of evil were given in
Zadkiel's Almanack respecting his Majesty which I
do not think it right to quote ; it was also suggested
that his Majesty would have " a fallfrom a horse."
But we need not wonder that the dignity of earthly
monarchs is not respected, when the Sovereign
of Heaven is himself blasphemed. In the second
LETTER VIII.
volume of Dr. Sibly's Astrology, is to be found the
nativity of the Lord Jesus Christ ! !
I now proceed to make some remarks on Atmos
pherical Astrology, which is defined to be—
"The art of foreseeing by the positions of the planets at the
periods of the Sun and Moon being in mutual aspect, and some
other circumstances, the quality of the weather at any required
time or place."
At page 12 of the Horoscope, we are informed
that this branch of astrology "is the most simple,
and the most easily reduced to practice."* The
study of the weather indeed is that of the air ; and
we have reason to believe that heat is the primary
agent in producing the various changes which take
place in the atmosphere. The astrologer would per
suade us that the temperature of the air is con
tinually varying with the aspects of the planets : he
says (Horoscope, page 40)—
" When the Moon is with Mars, the thermometer averages
about four degrees more than when she is with Saturn."
Mars is supposed to emit heat, and Saturn cold ;
but the truth is, that the almanack prophets know
nothing of the physical constitution cf either planet;
and if the temperature of our globe were at all
• Appendix, No. 17,
136 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
affected by their agency, we should be most sensible
of their influence when they are nearest to us, in
dependent of any astrological aspect whatever. Even
the Moon's action on the ocean is simply that of
gravitation, for the barometer has never afforded any
indication of a lunar atmospheric tide. Comets too,
are supposed to have some influence upon theweather,
but experience proves the supposition tobe ill-founded.
M. Arago informs us that the comet of 181 1,
" During its maximum of brilliancydid not impart to the earth
a light equal to the tenth of what it receives from the Moon atfull."
He adds, " I do not assert this as referring only to ils natural in
tensity, but concentrated in the focus of the largest mirror or
burning glass, and acting on the blackened bulb of a thermometer
in the air, it has not produced any sensible effect. By this mode
of experiment one hundredth of 8 degree of the ordinary thermo
meter, would have been fully perceptible ! We should then even
renounce the use of our reason, if, in the presence ofsuch a result,
we were to entertain the idea that a comet, supposing it to be ten
times more brilliant than that of 1811, could by its light produce
on the earth any variation of temperature, &c."
According to Mr. H. Forster, comets are always
connected with sickness, commotions, earthquakes,
inundations, famines, pestilence, &c,
M. Arago has ably commented on Mr. Forster's
work, and says, " Who. cannot foresee that a comet
could never approach our earth without finding
men struggling with some visitation. Mr. Forster,
LETTER VIII. 137
indeed, has travelled over the whole globe for ex
amples to prove the truth of his theory ; and it
appears from him, that the comet of 1608 had an
extraordinary effect upon the feline ttibe in West
phalia. At the appearance of this wanderer, all the
cats in this German district, were taken ill ; the very
cats felt the lash of its tail. What sin the purring
race had committed, to call down such a chastisement,
we are not informed. However, whether India
trembles from an earthquake, or the Westphalian cats
mew with sickness—whether Etna vomits forth tor-
rentsof lava, or the cattle die in the north of Scotland
—whether the plague rages at Algiers, or a vessel be
fired by lightning, Mr. Forster found a resting place
for his mind in the appearance of some comet, which
to his satisfaction, and that of most astrologers,
settled the matter as to cause and effect. It is
amusing to observe with what contempt Zadkiel
(Horoscope page 9) affects to treatthe Meteorological
Sociaty of London ; the decisions of philosophy
vanish before his pen ; astrological principles shall
settle the morning and evening temperature of every
day throughout the year, and that before its com
mencement, and every variation in the height of the
thermometer be accurately predicted. However, it
is with pleasure I inform my readers, that a trial of
the boasted skill of the astro-meteorologists has lately
138 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
been made. Mr. Wells, a gentleman to whom our
literary institutions are indebtedfor some able lectures
on chemistry, was challenged by an astrological
amateur to predict the changes of the rise and fall
of the thermometer for a majority of days last Jan
uary ; the astrologer engaging to do the same ; the
challenge was accepted, and Mr. Wells even ventured
to assert that he would surpass his antagonist in the
accuracy of his performance, and that, not by con
sulting the influences above, but the philosophical
records of those below. Both gentlemen wrote down
their expectations of the mean atmospherical tem
perature for each day in January, and delivered
them sealed to a third party ; at the expiration of a
month, the seals were broken, and the predictions
compared with the tables of Mr. Moss, and I
am happy to tell the public that Mr. Wells beat the
astrologer by six or seven days. This is the triumph
of science over astrological vanity and presumption.
At the discussion, Lieut. Morrison said, that the
weather on the 20th or 21st of February would be
extremely cold, and accordingly in his almanack, he
closes his meteorological remarks for February, with
the following predictions :
" This month will be remarkable for the extreme cold about
the 20th and 2lst, when the mercury will fall uncommonly (ou> ;
thus proving the power of the two cold planets, Herschel and
Saturn, upon the Sun's action."
LETTER VIII. 139
Now, by referring to Mr. Moss's tables in the
Cheltenham Chronicle, I find that the mean tem
perature of the atmosphere on the 20th was 31 1
degrees, and on the following day 33 degrees, thus
proving that Herschel and Saturn have no such
influence upon our atmosphere as astrologers would
have us believe. On the 7th of March, Zadkiel's
Almanack states, that in the morning the thermo
meter would be very low, but its actual height then
was 48 degrees. The conclusion of the whole is
this, that though science may lead us to some rational
expectations respecting the future temperature of the
air, astro-meteorology can do nothing in this matter,
because it proceeds upon principles which have no
existence but in the brain of the astrologer. The
weather is regulated by Him who " maketh the
clouds his chariot, who walketh upon the wings of
the wind," (Psalm civ. 3) and who says that "The
wind bloweth were it listeth," and that though we
hear its sound we cannot tell whence it cometh
nor whither it goeth."
How excellent and conclusive is the argument
employed by Cicero upon this subject. After stating
that there is often one kind of weather at Tusculum
and another at Rome, he adds,
" Quod, qui navigant, maxime animadvertunt, cum in flec-
tendis promontoriis, ve&tornm mutationes maximas s«j>e sentiant"
140 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
" Which mariners most of all observe, when in doubling pro
montories, they often perceive the greatest changes of the wind."
As to the temperature of the ground, it is always
the mean result of the impressions made at the sur
face during a series of years ; and these impressions
are produced directly by the Sun's rays, or by atmos
pheric influence. It has been ascertained that " the
variations of the mean temperature of the earth at
the level of the sea, is always proportional to the
sine of twice the latitude," and that the decrease of
temperature in ascending the atmosphere is about
one degree for every 100 yards of elevation. These
factsprove that the temperature of the earth is wholly
unconnected with astrological aspects. In Jamaica,
Fahrenheit's thermometer, except on the hilly dis
tricts, never falls before 70 degrees, and in Lima,,
never below 60. In some countries earthquakes are
frequent, in others, scarcely ever known. In Syria
and Barbary, there is scarcely any rain during the
summer; and in Upper Egypt, it seldom or ever rains
at all. In Arabia, the winds are hot and suffocating,
and in Guinea, thunder and rain prevail during four
months in the year. It is therefore certain that the
weather of any particular region is in no respect re
gulated by the configurations of the heavenly bodies.
If we refer to the Scriptures, we shall find that
all things here below are under the immediate direc
LETTER VIII. 141
tion of God himself; that though the heaven is his
throne, the earth is his footstool ; that the times and
seasons are in his hand ; the varying circumstances
of climate under his control ; and that everything
connected with seed-time and harvest, is under his
guidance. "He maketh small the drops of water:
they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof:
which the clouds do drop and distil upon man abun
dantly." (Job xxxvi. 27). " Sing unto the Lord
with thanksgiving : sing praise upon the harp unto
our God, who covereth the heaven with clouds, who
prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to
grow upon the mountains." (Psalm cxlvii. 7; see also
Proverbs xxx. 4, and Psalm lxv. 10.) "He giveth
snow like wool : he scattereth the hoar frost like
ashes: he casteth forth his ice like morsels : who can
stand before his cold ? He sendeth out his word,
and melteth them ; he causeth his wind to blow, and
the waters flow." (Psalm cxlvii. 16, &c.) I am
now going to prove that these bounties of God's pro
vidence to his creatures are connected with their
moral conduct ; and that therefore the measure of
them cannot be calculated by an astrologer. In Lev.
(xxvi. 3 and 4.) "If ye walk in my statutes, and
keep my commandments, and do them, then I will
give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield
her increase, and the trees of the fields shall yield
142 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
their fruit." See also the 5th and 6th verse*. In
Deut. (xi. 16,) we read "Take heed to yourselves,
that your heart be not deceived, and ye turn aside
and serve other gods, and worship them ; and then
the Lord's wrath be kindled against you, and he shut
up the heaven, that there be no rain, and that the
land yield not her fruit," &c.
In Jeremiah (v. 24) we find this threat of God
executed upon the guilty Israelites. " Neither say
they in the hearts, let us now fear the Lord our God,
that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in
his season : he reserveth unto us the appointed weeks
of the harvest. Your iniquities have turned away
these things, and your sins have withholden good
things from you." In Amos (iv. 7) are the follow
ing words:—"And also / have withholden the rain
from you, when there were yet three months to the
harvest : and I caused it to rain, upon one city, and
caused it not to rain upon another city : one piece
was rained upon, and the piece whereupon it rained
not, withered." In Psalm cvii. 25, " He com-
maxdeth, and raiseth up the stormy wind, which-
lifteth up the waves thereof," &c. And in the 2S)th
verse, " He maketh the storm a calm." See Mark iv.
39. Storms are occasionally sent to purify the air ;
but sometimes, that men may call their ways to re
membrance and fear Him who has sent the storm
LETTER VIII. 143
and directs its course. Storms and tempests when
raging with awful fury, are judgmentsfor iniquity.
In Isaiah (xxix. 6) it is written, "Thou shall be
visited of the Lord of Hosts [not by the stars] with
thunder, and with earthquake, and great noise,
with storm and tempest and the flame of devouring
fire." See Numbers xxvi. 10, also Jonah i. 4. " But
the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there
was a mighty tempest in the sea so that the ship was
like to be broken," &c. That famine, pestilence,
&c. are judgments from God for national transgres
sion, maybe proved from Ezekl. (xiv. 21,) "For
thus saith the Lord God ; How much more when I
send my four judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword
and the famine, and the noisome beast, and the pes
tilence, to cut off from it man and beast." It is true
that angels are frequently employed by the Most
High as the ministers of his vengeance. When
David sinned against the Lord by numbering his
people, God cut off seventy thousand of his subjects
by a pestilence. " So the Lord sent a pestilence upon
Israel from the morning even to the time appointed,
and there died of the people from Dan even to Beer-
sheba seventy thousand men. And when the angel
stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to destroy it,
the Lord repented him of the evil, and said to the
angel that destroyed the people, It is enough : stay
144 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
now thine hand," &c. " And David spake unto the
Lord when he saw the angel that smote the people,"
&c. See also Genesis xix. 22, and Acts xii.23. It
is evident, therefore, that angels (not astrological as
pects) are God's ministers " that do his pleasure."
See Psalm ciii. 20 and 21. When Sennacherib
marched up to the walls of Jerusalem, thinking that
he should as easily subdue that city as he had done
other nations, the God of Jerusalem sent an angel
and destroyed his army. " And it came to pass that
night, that the angel of the Lord went out and smote
in the camp of the Assyrians an hundred fourscore
and five thousand," &c. 2 Kings xix. 35. I argue
therefore that the 70,000 men in the former case and
the 185,000 men in the latter, perished not from the
operation of any ill directions-in their nativities, but
by the expressfiat of Jehovah. Evil angels too are
sometimes permitted to execute the purposes of the
Most High upon the earth. (Job i. 14, &c.) We have
reason to believe also that some diseases are occa
sioned by their immediate agency; see Job ii. 7, and
Luke xiii. 16. That sickness is often sent as a cor
rection for iniquity, may be proved from 1 Cor. xi.
30—Exod. xxiii. 25—Deut. vii. 15—and 2d Chron.
xxi. 14 and 15. At all times, however, this visita
tion has a voice from heaven ; sometimes it is evi
dently a spark of God's anger kindling upon the
LETTER VIII. 145
daring sinner ; but very frequently it is a gracious
visitation to his devoted children to ripen their Chris
tian graces, and make them meet and tit for the in
heritance of the saints in light; and occasionally for
purposes inscrutable to mortals. Death too pro
ceeds immediately from God. See Deut. xxxiv.
5, and Isaiah xxxviii. 1 to 5—Proverbs x. 27—
Psalm xci. 16—Isaiah lvii. 1, and xxvi. 9. My ob
ject in recommending these passages to the notice of
my readers, is to prove that mercies, afflictions, and
judgments proceed immediately from God himself:
and that they are sent at such times and seasons,
and in such measure, as he, in his infinite wisdom,
sees they are needed ; and if this be the method in
which God deals with his creatures, as it unques
tionably is, we are assured that no astrologer can
predict any of his dispensations. The stars have
no knowledge of the moral condition of man, neither
are nations or individuals periodically wicked : and,
therefore, the periods of chastisement cannot cor
respond with the predicted configurations of the
heavenly bodies : for if this were the case, man
would be necessarily wicked and mechanically rebel
lious ; the internals of his high transgressions might
be calculated, and therefore he could not be a re
sponsible being. These are arguments which no
L
146 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
astrologer can answer, because they are drawn im
mediately from the Bible, and are the voice of God
against his system, and every other form of error,
which would rob God of his glory, and drive him
from his throne of government.
The following important facts against astrology,
are submitted to the reader's attention.
1,—In my first letter I promised to take notice of
the skill of the ancient Chaldeans as prognosticators
of future events, and I now fulfil that engagement.
When Belshazzar made "a great feast to a thousand
of his lords," the astrologers of his court knew not
that their sovereign would that night be summoned
to another world, and his dominions given to the
Medes and Persians ; they were not only unable to
read the mysterious writing on the wall, but were
ignorant that Cyrus was at hand to execute the
vengeance of Heaven upon their guilty monarch
and wicked city. "Here then," says M. Rollin,
" we see astrology and magic convicted of ignorance
and impotence, in the very place where they were
most in vogue, and on an occasion when it was cer
tainly their interest to display their science and
whole power." (Daniel v.)
2.—My next witness against astrologers is Cicero:
" Sed quid plura? quotidie refelluntur. Quam multa
ego Pompeio, quam multa Crasso, quam multa huic
LETTEK VIII. 147
ipsi CcesariaChaldieis dicta memini; neminemeorum
nisi in senectute, nisi domi, nisi cum claritate esse
nioriturum ! Ut milii permirum videatur, quemquam
extare, qui etiarn nunc credatiis, quorum proedicta
quotidie videatre et eventis refelli."—De Viv. "But
why should I say more? They are refuted daily.
How many things do I remember predicted to Pom-
pey, how many to Crassus, how many to this Ccesar
himself by the Chaldeans ? that none of them should
die but full of years and glory ; and in his own
house ! How very wonderful it appears to me, that
there is any one who can believe those, whose pre
dictions he sees every day refuted by events."
3.—"In 1523, the astrologers having prophesied
incessant rains and fearful floods, the Abbot of St.
Bartholomew, in Smithfield, built a bouse on Harrow
on the Hill, and stored it with provisions. Many per
sons followed his example,and repaired to high places.
However, no extraordinary floods appearing, the dis
appointed soothsayers pacified the people by owning
themselves mistaken, just owe hundred years in their
calculation.''—Hall.
4.—In the fifteenth century, Stoeffler Hall foretold
a universal deluge, which should take place in 1524,
in consequence of three planets being then in conjunc
tion in awatery sign. All Europe was in consternation ;
and those who could find the means, built boats in
HS REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
readiness. Voltaire mentions a doctor of Toulouse,
who made an ark for himself and his friends."—
Penny Cyclopedia.
5.—At the discussion, Lieutenant Morrison spoke
in high terms of Cardan as a mathematician, and as
an astrologer. He was an Italian physician, and on
a particular occasion, having made a professsional
visit to Scotland, he set off for London on his way
home. He was introduced at the English court,
and well received by King Edward VI. whose na
tivity he calculated ; but on this occasion, as well
as on several others, his astrological science deceived
him, for he predicted long life to this prince, who
died the next year."— Gorton's Biographical Die.
Cardan owned that, of forty things, scarcely tea
happened right.—Gassendus.
6.—"Great winds were predicted by a famous
adept about the year 1580. No unusual storms,
however, happened. Bodin, to save the reputation
of the art, applied it as a figure to some revolutions
in the state, of which there were instances enough
at that moment."—Demonologia.
"Heminga, having proposed thirty eminent nati
vities, and reduced them to strict examination, ac
cording to the best rules of the art, he declared that the
experiments did by no means agreo with the rules,
sad events befalling such as were born under the most
LETTER VIII. 149
happy and promising positions of the heavens; and
good befalling such as the heavens frowned upon,
and threatened all the ruin and mischief unto, that
can well be imagined; and therefore he concluded,
that astrologers, when they give judgment of a na
tivity, are generally the whole heavens wide of the
truth.—Gossendus.
8.—Dr. James Young makes the following remark
upon Lilly.—"I have read all Lilly's Almanacks,
from 40 to 60, in the holy time of that great rebel
lion, to which he was accessary ; and find him always
the whole breadth of heaven wide from truth ; scarcely
one of his predictions verified, but a thousand con
trary wise. It is hard that a man shooting at rovers
so many years together, should never hit tha right
mark."—Sidrophel Vapulans.
9. — Dr. Simon Forman is allowed by Lilly to
have been a skilful astrologer, in resolving horary
questions. From a figure he set one morning, he
concluded that within two years he should be a lord
or a great man, but before the expiration of that
period, he found himself in Newgate. " There is
another figure concerning one Sir Ayre, his go
ing into Turkey, whether it would be a good voyage
or not: the Doctor repeats all his astrological reasons,
and then gave his judgment it would be a fortunate
voyage. But under this figure he concludes, this
150 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
proved not so, for he was taken prisoner by pirates
ere he arrived in Turkey, and lost all !" Other fail
ures of his are also recorded by Lilly.— History of
Lilly's Life and Times.
10.—There was also one Jeffry Neve, at this time
a student in physic and astrology ; he had formerly
been a merchant in Yarmouth, &c. he had a design
of printing two hundred VERifrED questions, and
desired my approbation ere they went to press
When I had perused the first forty, I corrected thirty
of them, would read over no more : I shewed him
how erroneous [though verified] they were, desired
his emendation of the rest which he performed not."
After his death Lilly purchased them.—Lilly's Life
and Times.
11.—The last of the astrologers was Morin, best
known as the opponent of Gassendi The latter had
in his youth studied and believed in the art, but had
afterward renounced and written against it. The
former who worked for thirty years at a book on as
trology, and was besides an opponent to the motion
of the earth, predicted his opponent's death re
peatedly, but was always wrong. He also foretold
the death of Louis XIII. with no better success.
Since his death, which took place in 1656, the
science has gradually sunk, and we believe has in
no case been adopted by any real astronomer.—
Penny Cyclopaedia.
LETTER VIII. 151
12.—In the 2d volume of Dr. Sibly's astrology
is the nativity of the Rev. George Whitfield ; it is
full of error : I have only room here to notice one
circumstance:—" In August, 1761, he was brought to
the very gates of death, yet the Lord was pleased to
raise him up again." (Dr. Gillie s Memoirs.) This
important event is unnoticed by Dr. Sibly, no doubt,
because he had not heard of it.
13.—A short time ago I heard that Lieutenant
Morrison had calculated the nativity of the child of
a professional gentleman in this town, and that as
trology had gained no laurels from his efforts on this
occasion. I therefore waited on the parents to know
the particulars. They informed me that as the time
of birth had been noted in the family Bible, the
Lieutenant had it to a minute. The infant was then
about seven or eight months old, had suffered much
from sickness, and had been repeatedly near death.
The Lieut. with an ominous look and foreboding
manner, gave the parents to understand that the
child would die at the age of fifteen months : he
afterward informed the father he could calculate
the very hour of its dissolution. However, as if the
child were to be a living monument of the vanity of
astrology, from that time it grew better, and at the
age of .fifteen months, was as healthy, fat, and
152 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
flourishing, as any one in the town, and has con
tinued so ever since.
My next letter will contain a full reply to the
Lieutenant's theology, as exhibited in his last two
communications.
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
LETTER IX.
Sir,
Tub last three letters of Lieutenant Morrison prove
to what an extent an astrologer will proceed in sup
port of his delusive system. Sooner than abandon
it, the star-gazer will blaspheme the truth of his
Maker—endeavour to worm out of the sacred text
some meaning favourable to his unhallowed views,
and thus wrest the very "scriptures to his own de
struction." Reckless of consequences, daring the
vengeance of Him " to whom all hearts are open,
all desires known, and from whom no secrets are
hid," he proceeds in his career of folly, drawing
iniquity with cords of vanity, sinning as it were
with a cart rope (Isaiah v. 18), and wildly laughing
on the brink of eternal ruin. St. Paul, in his first
epistle to Timothy (v. 24) says " Some man's sins are
open before hand, going before to judgment." This
solemn passage should lead many to serious thought,
154 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
whether they may not, with Saint Paul, be thinking
they are doing God service, while they are advo
cating the cause of error, and opposing his holy truth.
Certainly I may be permitted to say, that a more
awful perversion of scripture than is contained in the
two theological essays of the Lieutenant has rarely
appeared. His last effort is a bold attempt to escape
the force of truth by mere subterfuge and chicanery.
My thirteen facts his fancy has transformed into
thirteen mice, " nibbling through the foundations of
astrology ;" and himself, of course, into a good mouser,
guarding the temple of folly, which he now supposes
to rest principally on his own publications : these
are pretty numerous; and ho speaks of them as
having strengthened the foundations of the tottering
edifice (Horary Astrology, page 257). The Lieut.
is fearful that my mice will eat up his books ; and
these having given him so sleek a coat, he springs at
whatever attacks them, and will even claw the sacred
volume to pieces, that he may purr over the yearly
produce of his astrological pen. These mice, how
ever, I trust, will do their work yet, for they have all
escaped unhurt from the fangs of the astrological
mouser. His observations on my facts shall now
be reviewed.
No.' 1.—This, he says, "refers to a miracle re
lated in scripture 3000 years ago ;" that " astrology
LETTER IX. 155
never pretended to read the mysterious writing of
the immediate acts of God." Does the Lieutenant
imagine that a new language and a new character
were created on that occasion ? Does he not know
that divines are generally of opinion that it was the
old Hebrew or Samaritan character that was then
employed ? The astrologers, therefore, of the court
of Babylon must have been a set of dunces, as they
were not able to read it ; and it is evident that they
knew but little of the literature of those times. But
this is not the leading charge against these sorcerors :
I say, that they knew not that the stars were con
ducting Cyrus to their city; they knew not that he
was about to divert the Euphrates from its channel ;
they knew not that the brazen gates would be left
open by the drunken Chaldeans ; that their night of
feasting and rejoicing would be blasted by Heaven ;
that their monarch would be slain, and their city filled
with bloodshed and slaughter. These things took
place according to the common course of events—are
divinely recorded for our instruction and warning—
are conclusive against the vain pretensions of as
trology—and, I publicly defy the Lieutenant to give
any thing like a rational answer to them.
No. 2.—The Lieutenant says that this is two
thousand years old, is no fact at all, and merely " the
opinion of a man who had not himself examined
156 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
astrology." It is the testimony of the great Cicero,
a man who had fully examined the subject (De Div.
42), and greater authority for an ancient fact we
cannot have than his, except that of inspiration itself.
Vain is his attempt to discredit what Cicero has re
corded: a more important witness fiom the philo
sophic heathens I could not have produced. The
Lieutenant knows this, and, in his Horoscope, has
claimed him as an abettor of his art , but at the
discussion, I shewed that Cicero was a bitter enemy
to the abominations of the Chaldeans. The fact is
objected to also because it is 2000 years old, and yet
the Lieutenant in the Horoscope (page 6), has re
corded one 400 years older in the support of his
system—I mean the death of -lEschylus.
*' It had been foretold to jEschylus that he should die by the
fall of a house or other building about a certain period ; and he,
(knowing that the influence of theplanets may be guarded against
by human prudence), to avoid the danger, went away from all
buildings, to pass his time in the open fields, until the influence
should be passed over. • • • • He was killed as he sat in
the fields, by the fall of a tortoise, which an eagle dashed against
his bald pate, mistaking il for a stont, &c."
Here was a man who put more faith in an astro
loger than in his maker, and he deservedly perished
in his folly, for he could not escape the judgment of
God. Had he despised the prediction, and com
LETTER IX. 157
raitted himself to the protection of his Father above,
he would have acted like a man, and his head would
never have been mistaken by the bird of heaven for
a senseless block of stone. The assurance of the
Lieutenant to dispute the fact quoted from Cicero is
truly astonishing, when he, in his Horoscope, has
groped through the remote regions of mythological
fiction for arguments in support of his opinions.
No. 3 to 1 1.—The Lieutenant says, that these
"as they are extended from 1523 to 1655, or from
two to three hundred years ago, would be very in
sufficient witnesses in any case." What ! is he
ignorant that our lawyers frequently travel much
further back for precedents in support of some claim,
or to justify a certain course of legal proceeding?
Will he attempt to put the extinguisher upon all
history, or will he receive nothing but what suits his
own convenience ? But what follows is an exqui
site specimen of the wordy juggling of an astrologer
—a precious sample of " the cunning craftiness"
(Ephesians iv. 14) of the art :
" But I contend that ibe fulfilment of & prediction is no proof
of astrological principles, unless it can be shewn that it was made
in strict accordance with those principles ; and I also contend that
failure of a prediction is no disproof of their truth, unless it can
be shewn also to be in strict accordance wilh those principles."
If these be the sentiments of the Lieutenant, how
158 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
does he dare go back to antiquity for examples in
support of his art, as he has done, when he has no
record of the principles upon which the predictions
were conducted? He here finds it convenient to
give up certain fulfilments, that he may get rid of
nine palpable failures. But he knows that the
most important of these are connected with a period
when Lilly's works were principally consulted.
"Will the Lieutenant, after having publicly eulogised
Cardan as a mathematician and as an astrologer at
the Athenaeum, now reject a well-authenticated fact
because it tells against him ? I repeat that Cardan
calculated the nativity of Edward VI. and predicted
long life to that prince, but he died the next year !
The Lieutenant, finding himself beaten by the strong
facts put forth against him, endeavours to evade their
force by calling for some modern cases ; when he
knows that the art has been treated with almost
silent contempt for nearly 200 years, and that the
monster has only just begun to breathe again in his
person, and a few more such worthies.
No. 12.—This relates to the dangerous illness of
the Rev. George Whitfield, in August, 1761, and
unnoticed by Dr. Sibly in his nativity of that gen
tleman. The Lieutenant says, that the Doctor's
system of astrology is opposed to the true laws of
the science ;—but it is in accordance with the prin
LETTER IX. 159
ciples taught by Ptolemy, whom lie affects to follow.
Dr. Sibly has written more largely on the subject
than any other man, and I believe his works are held
in high estimation by most astrologers. The Lieut.
should be mild in his censures of the Doctor, for I
think he has drawn largely upon him for many
things contained in his own works. However, this
objection corroborates what I said in my last, that
every astrologer has his own system for prediction,
and with inflexible tenaciousness asserts its infalli
bility. But the Lieutenant professes to have another
argument against me "contained in one word—Her-
schel." But this one word is a powerful argument
against himself ; for Herschel is without a house,
and if he were to attempt to put him upon a footing
with the other planets, he must revolutionize the
whole system, as I have shewn in a former letter.
No. 13.—With regard to the birth of the child
here alluded to, I have consulted the family Bible,
and found it entered "at twelve o'clock." The
Lieutenant here acknowledges his error " as to the
child being worse when near fifteen months old," and
endeavours to account for it. Now an astrologer
must be very hard driven when he will confess him
self to be in any error. He says that "when the
child was fourteen months old, the father was taken
ill;" but the fact is, that it was the mother that was
160 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
taken ill at that time, respecting whom he had pre
dicted nothing, and of course had foreseen nothing;
the complaint, however, being contagious, the father
himself was soon after seized with it: but was this
circumstance foretold by the Lieutenant ? No :
his prediction was confined to the child, and in
which he miserably failed. But he says, if we will
allow him to assume the time of birlh to have been
12h. 1 lm. he has a " rapt parallel of Venus," which
will account for the continuance of the child's health.
I answer, that if his rapt parallel of Venus will coun
teract the baneful effects of Saturn's opposition with
regard to the child, why not with regard to the
father? The Lieutenant intimates that the child's
good health commenced at the age of fifteen months,
but it began to amend immediately after his pre
diction, which was uttered when it was seven or eight
months old, and has been doing well ever since.
The amount of the whole is this : the Lieutenant
predicted nothing respecting the mother and father,
who both, however, had successively a severe and
dangerous illness ; but he did with regard to the
child, which has lived in defiance of his evil aspects.
The Lieutenant makes the following express de
claration :
" / neter did in my life, nor ever shall predictthe time of any
person's death, because, however powerful the influence, astiologr
LETTER IX. 161
can only be justified in predicting illness, moreor lesssevere, but
MOT DEATH."
Now I shall prove that the Lieutenant has pre
dicted death, and that too of Prince George of Cum
berland; and this is to be found in his Horoscope,
at page 146 ; his words are—
"If he should suffer sicknes3, and, in short, end his days
at the time we have predicted [20 yearsj—we say, in the name of
naked truth and common decency, that the world can no longer
deny the reality of that sublime science which teaches that all
men are subject to the influence of the stars."
What the Lieutenant has to do with truth and
decency, after this quotation from his works, I leave
to the judgment of the public. He knows well, that
in every nativity the duration of life is a leading point
of prediction. Raphael has declared that the exact
time of any man's death may be infallibly foretold
by the laws of astrology.
Some additional facts against this supposed sci
ence, are now presented to the notice of the reader :
No. 14.—It appears from Genesis xli. 8, that the
astrologers of ancient Egypt were not only unable to
interpret Pharaoh's dream, respecting the seven years
of plenty and the seven years of famine which were
immediately to succeed each other, but were alto
gether ignorant of these approaching events.
M
162 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
No. 15.—From Exodus xii. we find that the
astrologers of Pharaoh's court did not foresee that
all the first born in the land, would be cut off in one
night; and from Exodus xiv. that the stars had af
forded them no information that their royal master
and his host would shortly perish in the Red Sea.
No. 16.— Cardan pretended to describe the fates
of his children, yet all this while never suspected,
from the rules of his art, that his dearest son, in the
prime of life, would be condemned to have his head
struck off on a scaffold by an executioner ofjustice,
for destroying his own wife by poison.—See Dr.
Long's Preface to his Astronomy, page 5.
No. 17.—Lilly's reputation was lost upon his
false prognostic of the eclipse of the 29th of March,
1652, commonly called black Monday ; for his pre
dictions not being fulfilled, Mr. Heath observes
(Chron. page 210), " That he was regarded no more
for the future than one of his own worthless al
manacks."
No 18.—An astrological student, well known to
Lieutenant Morrison, and who " acknowledges no
deference to him in the occult science," calculated
the nativity of a nephew of C. M. of this town. The
time of birth was observed with the greatest accu
racy, and made known to the astrologer. He pre
dicted that the child would die at the age of fifteen
LETTER IX.
months ; but added that there might be "the shadow
of a chance" of his getting over the malignant in
fluence ; but if he did, he would be an idiot till the
age of nine years, when his dissolution would cer
tainly take place! This prediction has been com
pletely falsified; the child is now more than three
years old, and very keen and intelligent.
No. 19.—During the last illness of the Duke of
Wellington, Lieutenant Morrison astrologically as
serted in the presence of several persons, from one of
whom I had the circumstance, that he would bet
twenty to one that the Duke would not recover; and
indeed, according to the prediction of his astrological
friend, the Duke should have died last summer.
No. 20.—Last year, Lieutenant Morrison and
Mr. B. went to Stroud, the one to lecture on the
comet, the other on phrenology. The time was as
trologically chosen, for they would not stir out of
Cheltenham till the aspects were favourable ; but yet
their jaunt was unproductive, for I understand that
it scarcely paid their expenses. On their return,
Mr. B. would take no refreshment, for his appetite
had departed with his spirits. The Lieutenant, how
ever, knew that he had a stomach, and found it was
empty, and that the aspects were not likely to fill it ;
norwould he erect a figure of the heavens to ascertain
whether it was a good time to digest a beef steak
164 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and a glass of brandy and water, but quietly paid
his respects to the good fare that was brought him,
to the great annoyance of his friend, who, perhaps,
never withdrew his eyes from the Lieutenant's cra
nium, till his repast was finished. Mr. B. probably
now began to think that astrology was altogether a
hoax upon the public, and that there was scarcely
anything worth studying except phrenology. But
this was not thefirst disappointment the Lieutenant
had met with ; he knew that the science was far
from being infallible ; but speculating upon remote
possibilities, thought that the time might arrive when
his scientific efforts would be rewarded with better
success. If he were asked for an explanation how
it was that his heavenly axioms had deceived him,
he might perhaps say—" I set my figure for the time
when B. consented to accompany me, and not for
the moment when I first thought of the matter."
Thus men " hold fast deceit."
No. 21. —My father, Mr. Robert Moody, a ma
thematician of considerable eminence, and author of
the leading mathematical articles in Hall's Encyclo
paedia, and which bear his name, studied astrology
for mere amusement for several years. No man ever
understood the art better. I once showed some of
his calculations to a professed astrologer in London,
who highly commended their accuracy. His . pre
LETTER. IX. 165
dictions respecting my brother and myself were not
verified by events. After much thought and labour
on the subject, his repeated failures and disappoint
ments, compelled him to pronounce the art false.
No. 22.—I was informed a few days ago, by a
person who has several of the Lieutenant's almanacks
for sale, that he could find no purchaser, as the pre
dictions were never fulfilled, and that he had been
reproved by some people for vending such a pub
lication as Zadkiel's Almanack.
But are these all the cases I have to produce
against the Lieutenant? No: I have others in re
serve, hut do not wish to wound his feelings more
than the discharge of public duty demands. How
ever, this I tell him, and with the utmost truth, that
he is the laughing stock of the people of Cheltenham,
and his predictions are considered as trash and rodo
montade. In the letter, to which I am now replying,
he endeavours to mislead his readers by mere verbiage,
and prates about the distinction between principles
and rules. I tell the Lieutenant that my argument
there against mundane astrology rests upon no such
distinction, but is grounded on the diversity of data
assumed by different astrologers in their predictions.
Astrologers generally have no principle, and their
rule is to fill their own pockets, so far as this is prac
ticable, at the expense of public credulity. The
Lieutenant says—
106 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
" I a3sert, without fear of any philosopher disproving it, that
the care of the Deity is over all his works, ay, even to the very
cats of Westphalia."
Yes, his care but not his judgments ; these are
reserved for incorrigible sinners, who seem to have
no more sense than Balaam's ass, which trembled at
the approach of a messenger from Heaven ; for sin
ners have often very loud calls as their consciences
can testify.
The Lieutenant has the following observations :
" Mr. Moody asserts that ' all things here below are under the
immediate direction of God himself:' if so, as he is the great
First Cause, and acts immediately without medium, or second
causes, there are none such ; no second causes ! Beautiful philo
sophy ! rather novel however."
My proposition, if novel at all, is only so to an
ignoramus. The Lieutenant confounds immediate
direction with immediate instrumentality. I reassert
that all things here below are under the immediate
direction of God himself. Angels merely perform
his pleasure (Psalm ciii. 21), and wind and storms do
no more than fulfil his word (Psalm clviii. 8). There
are second causes, but these are under the immediate
direction of the great first Cause. It is written
" The hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies" (Isa.
xxviii. 17). By the hail, we are to understand the
storm of God's anger, when he, by some signal
judgment, destroys daring rebels against his govern-
LETTER IX. 167
merit. Second causes on these occasions are generally
employed, such as the bite of a mad dog, &c. In
the Horoscope, page 59, are some remarks on Zad-
kiel's nativity. The astrologer there informs us, that
he had his foot torn by a dog, and was
" Obliged, for the satisfaction of his family, to submit to a
surgical operation. [He adds,] We did foresee an extreme lia
bility to accidents, wounds, and other evils, such as Mars always
causes, and acted accordingly, but the influence was too powerful
to be wholly overcome. The facts were these : we were standing
at the door of a neighbour, and the dog, which knew our person
well, and had never before molested us, suddenly seized upon us
without any apparent provocation, or giving' us any warning."
It is clear that Zadkiel never contemplated such
an attack as this, and his vague foreknowledge of
some approaching evil, is characteristic of that general
frame of mind experienced by an astrologer. He
knows nothing of tranquillity, and lives more or less
in perpetual fear. " The wicked are like the troubled
sea when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire
and dirt." (Isaiah lvii. 20.)
In my last letter, I remarked that we had reason
to believe that some diseases are occasioned by the
immediate agency of evil spirits. The Lieutenant
has endeavoured to ridicule the sentiment, though
supported by the express testimony of scripture. In
Job (ii. 7) we read, " So Satan went forth from the
presence of the Lord, and smote Job with sore boils
168 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
from the sole of his foot unto his crown." Dr.
Mason Good is of opinion that the Hebrew signifies
that his whole frame was incnisted with a burning
ulceration ; and a modern commentator remarks upon
this passage, " We know not how much Satan may
have a hand, by Divine permission, in the diseases
with which the children of men, and especially the
children of God, are afflicted." In Matthew (xvir.
14, &c.) is the following narrative : " And when
they were come to the multitude, there came to him
a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying,
Lord, have mercy on my son : for he is Iunatick, and
sore vexed : for oft times he falleth into the fire, and
oft into the water ; and I brought him to thy disciples,
and they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered
and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how
long shall I be with you ? how long shall I suffer
you ? bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked
the Devil, and he departed out of him : and the
child was cured from that very hour." The com
mentator, already cited, here remarks, The father,
in his complaint, saith, he is a lunatick, taking no
tice of the effect ; but Christ in the cure, rebuked
the devil, and so struck at the cause." In Luke
xiii. II, &c.) we read, "And behold there was a
woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years,
and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift
LETTER IX. 169
up herself. And when Jesus sawder, he called her
to him, and said unto her, Woman thou art loosed
from thine infirmity. And he laid his hands on her:
and immediately she was made straight, and glorified
God." The ruler of the synagogue, however, was
offended because the cure was performed on the
sabbath day, but was thus answered by our Lord :
" Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the
sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead
him away to watering ? And ought not this woman,
being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath
bound, lo, these eighteen years, to be loosed from
this bond on the sabbath day ?'* Here it is evident
that this woman's infirmity was occasioned by the
agency of Satan. I could say much more upon this
point, but here are witnesses sufficient from the word
of God to prove that some diseases are occasioned
by the agency of evil spirits. From the scriptures
we may learn that sin will give the Devil more or
less power, over the souls and bodies of men. The
Rev. J. Brown, in his Dictionary of the Bible, ob
serves that we cannot say how far evil spirits "may
immediately act in the production of our distempers."
The Lieutenant's mirth is directed against the solemn
declarations in God's word, and I recommend to his
notice the following passages: " Against whom do
ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide
HO REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
mouth, and draw out the tongue ? Are ye not chil
dren of transgression, a seed of falsehood?" (Isa.
lvii. 4.) " As a madman who casteth firebrands,
arrows, and death, so is the man that deceiveth his
neighbour and saith am not I in sport ?" (Proverbs
xxvi. 18, 19.) He asserts that he has proved astro
logy to be perfectly innocent. I reply that I have
proved it to be perfectly diabolical.
The Lieutenant talks of his fulfilled predictions,
and so do all other diviners. Johanna Southcote
herself did the same. She says,
" The war that I foretold in 1792 we should be engaged in,
followed in 1793. The dearth which came upon the land in 1794,
and 1795, 1 foretold in 1792 ; and, if unbelief did abound, that a
much greater scarcity would take place, and which too fatally
followed. I foretold the bad harvest in' 1797. I foretold, in letters
sent to two ministers in Exeter, what would be the harvests of
1799 and 1800 ; that the former would be hurt by rain, and the
latter by the sun : these followed as predicted. The rebellion
which took place in Ireland in 1798, 1 foretold in 1795, when the
Irish soldiers rebelled in Exeter against the English officers. I
foretold the secret thoughts and conversation of people in Exeter,
[ which took place in 1792. The letter I sent to the Rev. Arch
deacon Moore, last spring, foretold the harvest as it came."
From this quotation it appears, that Johanna has
completely beat the Lieutenant in the race of pre
diction. Where's the gypsy that does not boast of
her prophetic skill ? and where's the dreamer that
has not daily answers to his nocturnal intimations?
LETTER IX. 171
These false prophets, indeed, are some times allowed
to have some of their predictions to a certain extent,
verified in judgment to themselves and others who
consult them. St. Augustine, speaking of astrology,
says—
" This stupid and sacrilegious credulity is a just chastisement
from God, who frequently punisheth the voluntary blindness of
men, by inflicting a still greater blindness ; and who suffers evil
spirits that they may keep their servants still faster in their nets,
sometimes to foretel things which do really come to pass and of
which the expectation very often serves only to torment them."
The Lieutenant's theology now comes under re
view. In his letter of March the 10th, he objects to
my manner of quoting the scriptures, and the reason
is, because every text I have produced is a blow
against his system. I have quoted as our Lord did,
just as much as the case required. But this astro
loger has the audacity to charge me with being
ignorant of the original languages ; and indeed, such
a charge from some persons might be worthy of
serious notice, but coming from the Lieutenant, who
desires to reduce me to his own level, it may be put
on the same shelf with his other calumnies.
The Lieutenant commences his defence of astro
logy) by asserting that " Flavius Josephus declares
(book i. chap. 2) that astrology was first taught to
our father Adam by God himself." This is a fabri
172 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
cation, and is not to be found in Josephus; but,
speaking of the children of Seth, he says, "They
also were inventors of that peculiar sort of wisdom,
which is concerned with the heavenly bodies and
their order." Not a word aboutastrology ; and as
to the Lieutenant's pillars, they are blown down with
a single observation : these were in the land of Siriad,
and were erected by Seth or Sesostris, king of Egypt,
whom Josephus mistook for Seth the son of Adam.
This error of Josephus being so well known, the
Lieutenant's reading must be "very confined," to
be ignorant of it. He then pretends to find astrology
in the third chapter, whereas it is astronomy which
is there mentioned by Josephus : but were it other
wise, I should reject the authority of a man who has
strangely misrepresented many of the facts of the
Old Testament, and who says that the ancient giants
were the illicit offspring of angels and women ! The
Lieutenant now passes on to the eighth chapter, and
pretends that Josephus there states that Abraham
taught the Egyptians astrology : but the words of
this author are " He communicated to them arith
metic and delivered to them the science ofastronomy.''
The Lieutenant adds—
" It was not mere astronomy to which he alludes, but the pre
dictive portion, astrology, because he says that Seth foresaw many
things."
LETTER IX. 173
He says no such thing ; no such expression is to
be found in Josephus, nor anything like it. The
Lieutenant's observations in the next paragraph fall
to the ground with his "famous pillar" and false
quotations. He now passes on to Moses, and alludes
to Acts vii. 22, where it is written " Moses was
learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians ;" yes,
he was, but not in the folly of the Egyptians.
I now follow the Lieutenant through his scrip
ture quotations:
No. 1.—" And God made two great lights : the
greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to
rule the night : he made the stars also. And God
set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light
upon the earth, and to rule over the day, and o?er
the night, and to divide the light from the darkness:
and God saw that it was good." (Gen. i. 16 to IS.)
The Lieutenant, in his observations on these verses,
resembles the ancient idiot, who supposed that every
ship he saw come into port was his ; so the Lieutenant
when he sees the word rule, supposes that it is his
rule—i. e. astrological rule ; when he sees the word
influence, he supposes it is his influence—astrological
influence. But the sun and moon are here spoken of
as ruling over the day and night, and not over men's
minds and fortunes: they measure out to the different
parts of the world that proportion of light and heat
which infinite wisdom has determined.
174 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
No. 2.—" The sun shall not smite thee by day,
nor the moon by night." To explain this scripture,
1 shall quote Jonah iv. 8. u And it came to pass
when the sun did rise, that God prepared a vehement
east wind ; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah,
that he fainted, and wished in himself to die, and
said it is better for me to die than to live." See also
2 King iv. ] 9. In the east the powerful rays of the
sun are often fatal to those who carelessly expose
themselves to their influence. With regard to the
moon, mariners know that there is a danger in sleep
ing on deck, with their faces exposed to its rays ;
and, according to Came, these have a more injurious
effect than those of the sun. The Lieutenant's ob
servations on this passage would seem to indicate that
he had been very seriously smitten by the moon, and
that his mind's eye was somewhat disordered.
No. 3.—" And of Joseph he said, Blessed of the
Lord be his land, for the precious things of heaven,
for the dew, and for the deep that coucheth beneath ;
and for the precious fruits brought forth by the
sun, and for the precious things put forth by the
moon." (Deuteronomy xxxiii. 13, 14.) Dr. Gill,
a fine Hebrew scholar, considers with Scheutzer,
that the 14th verse refers to the monthly succession
of fruits, &c. and says that the word here used sig
nifies months. From the first of these two verses,
it is clear that it was Joseph's land which Moses
LETTER IX. 175
here blessed; and a modern commentator upon this
passage remarks :
"The seasonable rains and refreshing dews, those precious
things which come down from above, and make the earth fruitful ;
and by means of the springs which issue from beneath, and the
benign influences of the Sun, all kinds of valuable productions
peculiar to each revolving Moon in succession, would be abun
dantly afforded them."
This is the plain meaning of the passage.
The Lieutenant says that the language employed
by Moses is strongly calculated to countenance his
superstitions : no, nor was it ever so understood by the
Church of England. But what are the Lieutenant's
precious things put forth by the moon ?
" If the Moon ascend at birth, the native will be fond of no
velty and roaming about; and if she be weak, will lead a. very dis
solute life. • • • « When evil aspects are found between the
Moon and Mercury, the native will be inclined to dishonesty.
(Grammar page 15.) Her conjunctions with the Sun will cause
fevers if the Sun be evil at birth, and the Moon be hyleg."
Cum multis aliis, &c. (Page 67.) I leave it
to my readers to determine whether these things
accord with the mind of God, or with the counsel of
Satan. But the Lieutenant says Moses altogether
forgot to warn the people against the astrologer;—if
we refer to Deuteronomy (xviii. 1 1) we shall find it
otherwise—"There shall not be found among you
176 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass
through the fire, or that useth divination, or an ob
server of times, or an enchanter, or a witch." Now
an astrologer was always considered a diviner, as
may be abundantly proved; and, indeed, his mode
of divining the future exceeds all others in horrid
presumption and impiety ; for he has turned God's
heaven into a fortune-telling book. The Lieutenant
insists that I declare " whether it were possible
for the Creator to create planetary influence." I
say impossible : it is absolutely impossible that God
could create such influences as those just noticed;
the Divine Being cannot sin against his own glorious
attributes ; he " cannot deny himself." (2 Timothy
ii. 13.) The Lieutenant then observes—
" He will repeat that nothing evil ever came from the source
of all good ; but this is childish, for everything which exists does
so by his permission."
Yes, by his permission, but not by his creation :
and if the Lieutenant denominates my sentiments
childish, I call the reverse devilish. He then quotes
Job—" Shall we receive good at the' hand of God
and not receive evil ?" He proceeds thus :
" But who will deny that some men are born with worse na
tural dispositions than others. Even two brothers, educated ex
actly alike, will differ, one being mild and temperate, the other
violent and sensual."
LETTER IX. 177
But will the Lieutenant, therefore, charge moral
evil upon his Maker ? We are all born in sin—we
all spring from the same corrupt stock : David says
(Psalm li. 15) " Behold I was shapen in iniquity,
and in sin did my mother conceive me." We all of
us bring into the world the poison of the serpent, and
are continually subject to his awful influences ; but
all are not tempted alike ; no, nor in the same de
gree. Why the tempter is allowed to assail some
minds more powerfully than others, is one of those
secret things which belong to God (Deut. xxix. 29),
but we are assured that his government is holiness
itself from Jirst to last, and what we know not now
we shall know hereafter. (John xiii. 7.)
" The stars shall fall, the Sun shall lose his flame ;
But thou, 0 God ! for ever shine the same." Gat.
No. 4.—The Lieutenant's observations on Levi
ticus xxvi. 19, and Hosea ii. 21, need no reply, the
preceding remarks being sufficient for that purpose ;
I therefore proceed to consider Judges v. 20—"They
fought from heaven, the stars in their coursesfeught
against Sisera." The Lieutenant founds his inter-
pretation of this passage upon the distinction between
the planets and fixed stars,but which is never noticed
by the sacred writers,; for as the scriptures were not
written to make us astronomers, the stars are ever
N
178 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
spoken of as they appear to the eye—see Genesis
i. 16. We may understand from this famous pas
sage, that the powers of heaven were engaged
against Sisera, because he fought against the people
of God : and if the great Sovereign of nature be
against a man, all nature is against him ; nothing is
for him, and all things around him move forward to
hurry him to perdition. The bright seraphs of the
skies were engaged against the enemies of the Lord ;
the stars lighted their general to ruin ; time rolled on
for his destruction ; the ancient river Kishon swept
away his forces ; and the very horses pranced till
their hoofs were broken, no doubt terrified by the
roaring thunder, and the blazing firmament. See
Joshua x. 11. It may also be remarked, that as
this passage is part of the triumphant song of De
borah for the great victory obtained, we should sup
pose that the Hebrew poetry would be somewhat
figurative.
No. 5.—The next passage quoted in favour of
astrology is Job xxxviii. 31 to 33—"Canst thou
bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades, or loose
the bands of Orion ? Canst thou bring forth Maz-
zaroth in his season ? or canst thou guide Arcturus
with his sons? Knowest thou the ordinances of
heaven ? Canst thou set the dominion thereof in the
earth ?" The Lieutenant here says—
LETTER IX. 179
" In this place the starry influences are directly and unequi
vocally asserted ; there is no shuffling out of this fact. The or
dinances of heaven refer to the laws of the heavenly bodies, and
not to the laws of God, for these have an unlimited dominion in
the earth, whereas those have set limits, and Job is asked if he can
determine them. The ' dominion' means clearly the power or
rule of the heavens over the earth. Thi9 passage in Job is irre
sistible, and if it prove not the admitted existence of starry influ
ence, I know not how to read English."
The Almighty is here discoursing of the various
phenomena of the material world, as regulated by
his eternal power and goodness. These interroga
tories are intended to humble Job, and to show him
that that power which has created and preserves all
things, is infinitely beyond his comprehension ; and
that the wisdom which regulates and governs the
whole is remote from the ken of man, and that the
" ways of God are past finding out." (Job xi. 7.)
The Lieut, however, supposes that he knows all, even
the very purposes of Heaven, and that he can predict
the fates of individuals, and the revolutions of states
and kingdoms. Presumptuous man ! With regard
to the ordinances here spoken of, and this dominion,
I refer my readers to Jer. xxxi. 35. " Thus saith the
Lord, which giveth the sun for a light by day, and
the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a
light by night, which divideth the sea when the
waves thereof roar; the Lord of Hosts is his name.
180 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
In the eighth Psalm we read " Wh'en I consider thy
heavens the work of thy fingers, the moon and the
stars which thou hast ordained, what is man that
thou art mindful of him? and the son of man that
thou visitest him ?" The ordinances of heaven
are, in these passages, evidently connected with the
succession of day and night, and not with men's
lives and fortunes. No one, but an astrologer, would
ever imagine that the influences of the Pleiades were
astrological. Upon the passage under consideration,
an excellent commentator thus writes :
" The different seasons of the year are marked by the relative
situations of the fixed stars to the earth and to the sun. Could
Job prevent the effects of the spring, or ofthe winter 1 Could he
even explain how those effects were produced J"
Hales states that—
" Chimah is generally considered to denote the Pleiades, or
principal constellation Taurus. The name signifying charming,
corresponds to the delightful season of spring, of which Taurus
was the cardinal constellation in Job's time." See Job ix. 8.
No. 6.—The next passage produced to support
the dark cxuse is Psalm civ. 19, " He appointed the
moon for seasons, the sun knoweth his going down."
The Lieutenant here says,
" But the Sun produces the seasons, and notthe moon ; unless
we understand the words astrologically, when the Moon shew$ cer
tain timet fitfor doing things."
LETTER IX. 181
Now I shall here make the Lieutenant a present
of his own phraseology, substituting his name for
mine : Lieutenant Morrison " has shewn himself very
ill-informed as to the meaning of several passages of
scripture, which do not at all bear the sense he ap
plies to them : this is owing to the confined nature
of his general reading, and his ignorance of the ori
ginal languages in which they were written.—I shall
confute the Lieutenant by one verse from the prophet
Isaiah (lxvi. 23.) " And it shall come to pass from
one new moon to another, and from one sabbath
to another, shall all flesh come to worship be
fore me, saith the Lord." O poor ignorant man ! to
prattle about scriptural knowledge, and the original
languages.
No. 7.—The Lieutenant, supposing that the sun
and moon shine upon his path, refers to Psalm xxxix.
4—"Lord, make me to know mine end, and the mea
sure of my days, what it is, that I may know how
frail I am." The prayer book version of this passage
is the translation of a translation ; and upon this
subject I refer the reader to the observations of Dr. A.
Clarke — David was weary of the " contradiction of
sinners" (Hebrews xii. 3), and his petition bears a
striking resemblance to our Lord's exclamation—
(Matthew xvii. 17), " Then Jesus answered and
said, 0 faithless and perverse generation, uow long
182 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
shall I BE with you ? how long shall I suffer you?"
David here prays also, that he may be sensible of the
shortness of the period of human life—that he
might know his own frailty, similar to Psalm xc. 12
—" So teach us to number our days, that we may
apply our hearts unto wisdom ;" and to Psalm cxix.
84—"How many are the days of thy servant ? when
wilt thou execute judgment on those that persecute
me ?"—" Lord give me to consider the measure of
my days, that they are measured in the counsel of
God." To suppose that David was in this psalm in
dulging an unhallowed curiosity with respect to the
remaining period of his life, is absurd ; and even if
he were, it would not serve the cause of astrology,
which attempts to discover the term of human ex
istence by other means. In Genesis (xxvii. 2) we
have the following declaration of Isaac—" Behold
now I am old, I know not the day of my death." See
Prov. xxvii. 1, and James iv. 14. Isaac, though en
dowed with the gift of prophecy, was ignorant ofthe
time when he should be summoned into the world of
spirits, yet astrology pretends to make it known.
I now present the reader with a noble specimen
of criticism !
" When heaven is named without the article, the place ot the
Lord's habitation is meant ; but tiie or thy heavens, alwaysmeans
the heavenly bodies."
LETTER IX. 183
The Lieutenant cites Psalm viii. 3, and I cite Ex
odus xx. 11, and leave him to digest his criticism.
He quotes an apocryphal work —the Book ofWisdom,
as if it were written by Solomon ; which all the
learned are agreed it was not ; an d it abounds with
error and absurdity. He says—
" The wise men of the east who came to worship the infant
Saviour, must have been astrologers. They are called Magi, but
as magic had become corrupt, I conceive they could not have been
magicians, and must therefore h ave been astrologers !"
I deny that a separation between astrology and
magic had taken place. What says Stellarius ?
" It is true oun clehoy stiii retain their prejudices against it
[astrology], but these originated from its being mixed with magic
and other occult sciences ; but modern writers have purified it
from all its superstitions,and rendered it a virtuousand most noble
study."
Raphael has also similar language. And were it
necessary, I could prove it to be very questionable
whether the separation has even yet been effected.
With regard to the ancient Magi of the Persians,
Aristotle says—
" They were the sole authors and conservators of the Persian
philosophy; and the philosophy principally cultivated by them
was theology and politics; they being always esteemed as the in
terpreters of all law, both divine and human, on which account
they were wonderfully revered by the people."
184 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
Cicero also observes, that
'' None were admitted to the "crown of Persia, but such
were instructed in the discipline of the Magi."
The star which guided the Magi to the Saviour,
is generally supposed to have been a meteor moving
in the middle region of the air, and called a star
from its having the appearance of one: its motion was
regulated preternaturally, and Townsend observes—
" Whether that which guided them was a comet, a meteor, or
a star, the wisdom and harmony of the dispensations of God is
equally manifiest.
That these Magi were divinely directed to visit
the Saviour, is certain ! and perhaps the prophecy of
Balaam (Numbers xxiv. 17), who was one of the
wise men, was brought to their minds, to move them
to undertake the journey. The astrological view of
the subject is disgusting, absurd, and impious.
The Lieutenant has a postscript to this letter, in
timating that Paddon, who was committed by a
London magistrate as a rogue and a vagabond, could
not have been an astrologer, because he "looked at
the woman's palm." But does he not know that
about two hundred years ago " the new-born child
was usually presented naked to the astrologer,
who read the first lineaments in its forehead, and the
LETTER IX. 185
transverse lines in its hands." Paddon, no doubt,
was one of the old school.
.%Mr. Editor, I dare not trespass farther on your
columns, and am therefore compelled to postpone
my remarks on the Lieutenant's second theological
letter, till next week, when I shall take leave of the
subject.
With my best thanks for your kind indulgence,
I am, Sir, &c.
T. H. MOODY.
LETTER X.
Sir.
When the written challenge of Lieutenant Morrison,
to discuss the truth or falsehood of astrology, was
some months ago presented to me, I received it as
coming from a gentleman and a man of science, and
gave him credit for sincerity of sentiment ; surprised,
however, that in these philosophic days, a man of
letters should be found dabbling in the absurdities of
astrology —having then no idea that he was a regular
professor of the art; but my subsequent knowlege of
the Lieutenant has greatly altered my opinion re
specting him. For some time he fought at a distance,
not daring to meet my leading arguments against as
trology, and which, therefore, remain unanswered;
but at last, the shades thickening around his beloved
idol, and its dark portraiture being strongly set forth
from the scriptures of truth, aroused his covetousness;
and I can imagine him addressing his brethren of the
LETTER X. 187
stars in the language of Demetrius, "Sirs, ye know
that by this craft we have our wealth" (Acts xix.
25) ; and this craft being in danger, the Lieutenant
wound himself up for argument, and in two succes
sive letters, endeavoured to prove concord between
Christ and Belial; but his reasoning powers being
paralized by such an answer as he little expected,
he commences his last poor effort with a petition to
the public to excuse him from replying to this com
munication, because of the "violent invective, "which
he says it contains. Is the practice of astrology then
not to be inveighed against ? Is the character of the
artist not to be scrutinized ? And when the Lieu
tenant has been awfully perverting that book which
all the Christian world holds sacred, does he expect
soft words from his opponent? In his preceding letter,
the Lieut. was chuckling over his own dexterity, and
trifling with the solemn truths of revelation ; and
now that his impiety has received that castigation
it merits, and which it ought to have for the good
of the public at large, he quails under what, if
properly received, might be beneficial to him. But
it is right for me here to observe, that I have given the
Lieutenant no " gross abuse," no " vulgar insults;"
I have employed no such language against him as he
has against me. I have not used the expressions
" cold-blooded slander," a " very base trick," &c.
188 KEFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
No ; but I have characterised the art as it is, and the
professors as they deserve ; and if I had failed in
either of these points, I should not have discharged
my duty to the public, and should have been greatly
criminal in the sight of that Glorious Being, of whose
cause I am the unworthy advocate. If the Lieutenant
had received with some degree of moderation what
was intended for his benefit, as well as that of the
public, the mists which have long obscured his in
tellectual vision might have begun to disperse; but
" The love of money is the root of all evil." (1 Tim.
vi. 10.) I am not surprised at some of his obser
vations on the anecdote respecting my late father;
they are such as I expected, but I have an answer
for him. With my father, astrology was merely the
amusement of a literary man, but with the Lieutenant
it is a trade. My father declared it to be false,
when he found it to be so; but the Lieutenant in
sists upon its truth, when / am certain that he has
had abundant evidence of its falsehood. Mr. Wilson,
in his Dictionary of Astrology (page 167), speaking
of some rules by which the artist endeavours to as
certain if a horary question be radical, says—
" For my own part, having never made a trade of astrology,
I can say nothing to all this, but must leave it to the student's ex
perience." [And at page 260,] " It is superfluous, I hope, to
advise him [the studentj to avoid all strangers, and above all
things, not to do any thing of the kind for gain. 1 cannot speak
LETTER X. 189
with certainty, but there is much cause to suspect, that those
who do such things for profit, lose their divining faculty
and can foretel nothing. The chord of sympathy is very fine,
and may be easily broken, when the mind is attentive to a dif
ferent object. Perhaps this is one reasoD why they so often meet
with the punishment they deserve ; at all events it is a proof that
they are somehow or another miserably deficient." [Also at
page 162,] " On account of the world's dread laugh, few venture
to profess it [astrology], and of these few, the greater part are
either ignorant pretenders or oross impostors, who practise for
gain, and are so far from understanding astrology, that they do
not believe it themselves."
These are the sentiments of a man thoroughly
acquainted with the art, and whose reading upon the
subject is evidently very extensive. I shall now give
the Lieutenant's opinion of Mr. Wilson and his Dic
tionary :
'' I respect Mr.Wilson as a friend of truth ; but Ithink that in
treating on astrology, he has, in some few instances thought too
much of reason, and too little of experience."—Gram, page 74.
However, his work exhibits a degree of candour
upon the subject that I have not met with in any
other. Mr. Wilson has rejected so many things
which the Lieutenant holds sacred, and has exposed
the absurdity with such pointed satire, that I am
surprised he did not renounce the whole system.
It is important here to observe, that this gentleman,
in my second quotation from his Dictionary, recog
190 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
nises astrology as a system of divination. Now
I say, with the Bible before me, that Diviners can
not inherit the kingdom of God ; no, nor they who
consult them. " If the blind lead the blind, both
shall fall into the ditch." (Matthew xv. 14.) It is
written (Deut. xviii. 12, &c.) "For all that do these
things are an abomination to the Lord : and because
of these abominations the Lord thy God doth drive
them out from before thee. Thou shalt be perfect
with the Lord thy God. For these nations which
tbou shalt possess, hearkened unto observers of
times, and unto diviners; but as for thee, the Lord
thy God hath not suffered thee so to do." A mo
dern commentary on this passage says—
" The terms here used shew that our venerable translators,
considered that alt calculations of lucky or unlucky days, all
charms for diseases, all amuletsor spejls to prevent evil, fohtdne-
tellino, &c. Scc.were thereby forbidden. These were so offensive
as to be a chief cause of the extirpation of the Canaanitrs. It is
amazing to think that there should be any pretenders ofthis kind
in such a land and day of light as we live in. Connected with
idolatrous worship, wasthe opinion of the power of magic ; or the
arts to which the heathen pretended of discovering, and even di
recting effects ascribed to the operation of the elements, the con
junction ofthe stars, the influence oflucky or unlucky days, &c."
In a former letter I have the following sentence,
and I abide by its truth. No astrologer shall enter
the kingdom of heaven, and the reason is because
LETTER X. 191
he robs God of his glory, perverts his truth, and
deceives men." He usurps the throne of the Eter
nal, pronounces upon his counsels, anticipates his
providence, pretends to a knowledge of all events
past, present, and to come, predicts the destinies of
nations, the fates of kings and princes, the private
circumstances of individuals, all the changes and
convulsions of the material world, and the various
judgments of God upon guilty man, and even that
solemn hour when the immortal spirit is summoned
before the Judge of quick and dead, and what is it
that is hidden from his omniscient eye ? And yet tha
astrologer knows not but that the next hour he may
perish by hydrophobia or some other calamity. Is
this the character of the " little child" (Mark x.
15) that is to enter the mansions of bliss? Is this
being meek and lowly of heart ? (Matthew xi. 29.)
No ; we behold in the pride and arrogance of the as
trologer, " the image and superscription" of Satan,
and at the great day he will not only be reckoned a
liar,but the most daring and presumptuous of all liars,
and therefore will be excluded from the kingdom of
heaven. It is written (Revelations xxii. 15), " For
without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whore
mongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and wuoso
I.OVETH and maketh a lie." Similar language is
also found in the 2Jst chapter: "But the fearful
192 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and unbelieving, and the abominable, and mur-
[ derers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and all
liars, shall have their part in the lake which burnetii
with fire and brimstone : which is the second death."
By sorcerers, in these passages, I understand all di
viners ; and from Acts xiii. 6, we may gather that
sorcerers were false prophets, and opposed to " the
simplicity which is in Christ" (2 Cor. xi. 3) and to
the truth of the gospel.
It is not I who anathematize Astrologers: the
word of God does this; and I proclaim the fact for
the instruction and warning of the ignorant and un
wary : it is charity to warn man of his danger, and
it would be sinful to withhold admonition ; and
though my language may occasionally wear the ap
pearance of severity and resentment, I trust that the
one is the severity of meekness, and the other a holy
indignation against the diabolical art. What! when
I perceive immortal beings in danger of eternal de
struction—when I know that the generality of man
kind are not alive to the iniquity of astrology, and
that its professors are sought after as oracles of
wisdom,—am I to moderate my censure, am I to miti
gate its turpitude,am I to conceal the solemn declara
tions of inspiration respecting it? This indeed would
be a cowardly mode of opposing its principles, and a
dastardly uncharitableness, which could only proceed
LETTER X. 193
from a heart having little or no compassion for its
deluded votaries. Such an opposition would unques
tionably lead many to suppose, that the practice of
astrology, if at all wicked, was not very wicked ;
perhaps, only a harmless curiosity ; or, if a sin, at
any rate, not a very great one ; and, as the Supreme
Governor is not extreme to mark what is done amiss,
he would pass by such transgression, remembering
we are but dust. But the crime is great, awfully
terrific, more heinous than many imagine.
We know that " Man is born unto trouble as the
sparks fly upward" (Job v. 7) ; not that God will
ingly afflicts or grieves the children of men (Lam.
iii. 33), but this is a necessary discipline to his
fallen nature. An eminent divine here remarks
" We must not attribute our afflictions to fortune, for they
are from God ; nor our sins to fate, for they are from ourselves.
What trouble we are in, we must own that God sends it upon us,
and we procure it to ourselves ; the former is a reason why we
should be patient, the latter why we should be penitent, when
afflicted. Trouble and affliction are what we all have reason
to expect in this world. Man is born in sin, and therefore to
trouble. In our fallen state, it is become natural to us to sin, and
the natural consequence of this is affliction."
Men derive not their fondness for dissipation from
Venus's being in the ascendant at their birth (Gram,
page 11) ; nor, do they become thieves from the evil
o
194 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
aspects between the Moon, Mars, and Mercury
(Grammar, page 15) ; but, it is out of the heart
that all moral evil proceeds. (See Matthew xv. 19.)
Fevers are not the consequence of Mars being in a
fiery sign (Grammar, page 64), nor is the dropsy
caused by Saturn's being in a watery one. Both are
are from him who says, " Come, and it cometh,"
and who alone can say, " Go, and it goeth." See
Matthew viii. 5 to 10. But though man, in conse
quence of sin, is born unto trouble, the gracious
Creator has instructed him at such seasons, to ap
proach his mercy-seat for faith and patience, in
struction and deliverance : as it is written (Psalm 1.
15) " Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will de
liver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." " God is our
refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble."
(Psalm xlvi. 1) "Give us help from trouble, for
VAIN IS THE HELP Of MAN." (Psalni lx. 11.) Bat
if the Divine invitations be slighted, when fatherly
corrections are sent; if, in the hour of trial, the
word of God be disregarded, and man be confided in
for counsel and deliverance, the Most High will be
offended ; and such a course, if persevered in, will
cause the Heavenly Friend to become an enemy ; for
"Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh
flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the
Lord." CJeremiah xvii. 5.) It is true, that such
LETTER X. 195
means as are calculated, with the blessing of God,
to remove the burthen which oppresses the mind are
to be used ; friends also are to be consulted, for, " A
brother is born for adversity" (Proverbs xvii. 17),
but our trust and confidence are never to be removed-
from God to instruments, for he alone can effect the
deliverance. These remarks are submitted to the
attention of the reader, because it is more particularly
in the hour of sorrow that the astrologer steps for
ward with his proffered aid and instruction. When
the mind is oppressed, when the spirits are jaded,
when nature is drooping and energy flags, and God
only can speak peace to the troubled bosom, then
the diviner would erect his horoscope, attempt to
foretel the discipline of Heaven, and direct
the weary way of the afflicted. This is a sin of great
magnitude; its guilt is tremendous. I advise Lieut.
Morrison to insult the Majesty of heaven no longer,
to pause in his career of folly before it be too late;
for God is not only " a jealous God," but " a con
suming fire," to those who rebel against his govern
ment. (Hebrews xii. 29.)
I am accused by the Lieutenant of having de
nounced him as very soon to have evil spirits as his
companions for eternity. Has he no regard for truth?
I have not done this ; but, apprehending his danger
to be great in this matter, I have given him a word
196 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
of caution. In his letter of March 31, he declared
that he had never predicted death to any individual,
but only illness more or less severe. To prove the
contrary, I brought an instance from the nativity of
Prince George of Cumberland, and the Lieutenant,
feeling the awkward situation in which my quotation
has placed him, makes an effort to escape, truly
characteristic of astrological shuffling. He asks " why
was not the actual prediction quoted ?" I answer,
merely for the sake of brevity ; but now it shall be
given to his confusion ; and I return the Lieutenant
his urbane phraseology—" a very base trick" here
applied to myself, believing that he can set forth its
import with a degree of accuracy to which I am a
stranger.
'* The Moon, in this natus, is the hyleg (thatwhich rules or go
verns the life or vital functions of the native), and, as at 26 years
of age, she comes to very evil aspects, his constitution having been
previously shaken by disease, wefear that he will hardlybe able to
overcome the malefic influenceof that period ; at all events we are
quite certain that, ifhe live to that age, he will then be in extreme
danger of death. [These words in italics.] In conclusion, v>^
have only to observe, that we here defy the whole body of sceptics
to deny the [accuracy of this nativity, &c. If those events an-
Bwer accurately to the aspects which are past, (and this they
undoubtedly do); and if those which are to come should also
agree with events which may befal the young Prince—if he should
suffer sickness, and, in short, end his days at the time we have
predicted—we say in the name of naked truth and common
decency, 8tc."
LETTER X. 19?
Here the Lieutenant distinctly affirms that he has
predicted the period when the Prince will " end his
days," and evidently intends that what precedes
should be considered as equivalent to a positive pre
diction of death. He knows that some degree of
caution is required in framing such prognostics, and
that they should contain certain saving clauses to
provide for their possible non-fulfilment: such as
" extreme danger of death." Now if Prince George
should survive the critical period, the Lieutenant, if
then living, could say he had only predicted extreme
danger of death, and not death itself; if, however,
the Prince should die at the age of 26 years, then he
would affirm that he had foretold the event ; arguing,
that though the language of the prediction itself,
from a principle of delicacy, was not actually po
sitive as to the Prince's dissolution at the time named,
yet what followed was an evidence that he meant
it to be so considered. Or, if the Prince should be
both alive and well at the age of 26 years, and in
no apparent danger of death, and this were to be
urged against the Lieutenant, he could even then say
that if all circumstances were known, we should find
that his danger had been imminent.
In the Lieutenant's Almanack for 1836 (page
21), the death of the Pope is predicted, but with the
craft and cunning of an astrologer.
198 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
" The head of the Catholic Church, who was born in the
same year as our own good Kins?, is tormentedby bodily sufferings ;
for Mars is traversing the opposition of the Sun's place in the se
condary motion. 1 judge that he is drawing near to that goal
which Popes as well as minor mortals must one day attain ; and
in spite of the anathemas which popes have hurled against the
doctrine of the stars, he is about to vnsergo the effects of the
Sun coming by direction to the opposition of Saturn ; though, as
I have only the day, and not the hour of his birth, I do not feel
certain as to his terminus vita'."
If the Pope should die, the Lieutenant will say
he foretold the event; if the Pope should live, the
Lieutenant was not certain as to his terminus vita —
But it is evident he would have it believed that when
the hour of birth inaccurately known,the hourof death
may with certainty be predicted.—He further says—
" All the public care to know, is not how far the science was
understood two hundred years ago, but whether it can be proved
to be true by modern cases."
That is, though hitherto it has borne the cha
racter of falsehood, whether his noble efforts may
not invest it with the attributes of truth ; and in his
postscript he refers us to one of his "fulfilled pre
dictions." The prophetic announcement is to be
found in his pamphlet on the comet.
** The end of 1835, or early in 1836, may be expected to be
remarkable for some one or more very extensiveearthquakes. The
parts of the earth which we anticipate will suffer most, are those
situated to the north of Asia, and some parts of the southern hemi
sphere, such as China."
LETTER X. 199
The Lieutenant then adds—
" This is fulfilled exactly ; for news has arrived of the greatest
city in the world, the capital of China, having been swallowed up
and 100,000 houses buried."
The Lieutenant here has taken a wide and ex
tended range, for the operation of the comet. All the
north of Asia, and the southern hemisphere, were
exposed to its malignant influence; but, thinking
that such a prognostication might be esteemed too
vague, he mentions, haphazard, the Celestial Empire;
but even here the Lieutenant took a tolerable extent
of ground, to travel over in search of an earthquake ;
for, according to the London Gazetteer, the empire
of China includes—
" China Proper, Maudshuria, Mongolia Proper, Thibet, and
the whole of central Asia, between Hindostan on the south, and
Asiatic Russia on the north, territories of vast extent, which are
either subject or tributary to the Emperor of China."
Now the reader will observe that, according to
the terms in which the prediction is given, the sphere
of the comet's action was the north of Asia, and the
southern hemisphere, but not central Asia ; and
China is merely mentioned through the Lieutenant's
gross kignorance, who supposed the emperor's do
minions to be south of the equator ! ! The Lieutenant
evidently foreknew nothing of the earthquake at
200 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
Pekin;* it might have been at Nankin or Canton, or
ten thousand other places, for any knowledge he had
of the matter. Surely, he would be better employed
were he to throw off the prophetic mantle, return to
school, and learn geography. But the beauty of the
whole affair is, that the Lieutenant has actually
thought so highly of his last production, which con
tains this folly, that he has had his letter reprinted,
and, I believe, has given his ignorance and absurdity
a tolerably wide circulation ; and he will be pleased
to accept my best thanks for this effort of his zealous
activity. In the preface to his Almanack for 1836,
he triumphantly mentions the earthquake of Suza,
as an instance of the fulfilment of another of his pre
dictions; but the Lieutenant's earthquake was to
have been in an island in the Mediterranean sea;
Suza, however, happens to be in Africa, and by
Arrowsmith's map, more than 200 miles from the
spot he mentioned. In this prediction the Lieutenant
only mistook Europe for Africa !
Now for the foolish challenge of this Prophet.-f-
At the commencement of this controversy, I deter
mined to rest the question upon the deductions of
sound reason and the Word of God. Having al-
• From subsequent intelligence, it appeared that there was no
earthquake at Pekin, and that the report was therefore faUe !
t Appendix, No. 18.
LETTER X. 201
ready completely vanquished the Lieut. in argument,
and HAVING PROVED FROM THE SCRIPTURES, the
falsehood and iniquity of his art, I shall not now
abandon all, and make an experiment to see if as
trology may not, for all this, possibly be true, and
consequently the Scripturesfalse ; for the Bible and
astrology cannot both be true; they are diametrically
opposed to each other. But were I to accept the
Lieutenant's challenge, and he to succeed, the result
would not prove the truth of astrology, because here,
the trial of its truth is limited to past events. Now,
though evil spirits have in general no certain know
ledge of the future, they have of the past; and
therefore the astrologer's mind, under their officious
guidance, might receive a convenient bias, so as to
pen something pretty near the mark, and he then
fancy himself superior to common mortals. I may
also add, that of the six gentlemen selected to meet
on the question, three are to be nominated by the
Lieutenant himself; and, for anything I know, he
might, from one of them, receive some good natured
hints, some friendly suggestions, or some nods and
shakes of the head to a little spelling in private, for
information, in order to save him from total shame
and confusion. Three leading events of the na
tive's life are also to be made known to the Lieut. ;
those would afford him a tolerable clue to make some
shrewd guesses at others. I have more objections
202 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
too, but do not think it necessary to particularise
them. It may also be remarked that there are but
comparatively few persons who chronicle the prin-
cipal circumstances of their lives, and therefore such
a nativity as would be proper for the purpose, is not
easily procured. But my dernier resort is the Bible,
and not the Lieut.'s sinful experiments ; and he who
will prefer to the voice of inspiration, the dictates of
a vain mind, deserves to be abandoned by his Creator.
"Author of Good ! to Thee I turn :
Thy ever wakeful eye
Alone can all my wants discern,
Thy hand alone supply."—Mehhick.
As to Johanna Southcote's predictions I could
quote some of her correspondence and baffle the
Lieut. but this task belongs rather to her followers
than to me. The Lieut. has more than once said that
I cannot make astrological calculations. I can make
Astronomical calculations, and it would be therefore
very strange, if I could not run over the petty figures
of astrology; but if I had experienced any difficulty
in this, his Grammar, if worth anything upon the
subject, ought to have furnished me with " a ready
means" of removing it, (p. 4.) His garrulity upon
such stuff proves to me, that he is no mathematician.
Some remarks must now be made on the Lieut.'s
second theological letter (March 17.) He says,
LETTER X. 203
" I contend that astrology is no where condemned in Holy
Writ ; either indirectly, by forbidding man to look into the future,
or directly, by name and a distinct prohibition."
What can man know of the purposes of the Great
I AM ? Who shall fathom the counsels of Deity ?
What mortal can pronounce on the events of to
morrow ? I shall prove that God is the Moral Go
vernor of the world, the Supreme Judge of the earth,
(Genesis xviii. 25,) the Sovereign Disposer of all
events, for not a sparrow falls to the ground without
his permission, (Matthew x. 29,) and that the future
is his property; that it cannot be known, and that
the continued attempt to discover it must terminate
in the destruction of the presumptuous individual.
In Isaiah (xlvi. 9, 10) it is written, " I am God and
there is none else, I am God and there is none like
me, declaring the endfrom the beginning, and from
ANCIENT TIMES THE THINGS THAT ARE NOT YET
done, saying my counsel shall stand and I will
do all my pleasure." Here we perceive that all
things are under the direction of God, and that his
eternal counsel respecting them is unsearchable. He
declares that there is none like him, assigning as a
reason that He alone knows the endfrom the begin
ning, and that he alone can declare the things that
are not yet done, and consequently all that is future
is locked up in the Divine bosom, and must for ever
204 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
elude the presumptuous scrutiny of man. In Acts (iv.
27 and 28) we have the following remarkable words :
"For of a truth, against thy holy child Jesus, whom
thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate,
with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel were
gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and
thy counsel determined before to be done."
In Isaiah, (xlv. 6 and 7) we read, " I am the
Lord and there is none else. I form the light, and
create darkness ; I make peace, and create evil, I
the Lord do all these things." That is, as Mr. Orton
remarks,
" I am the Supreme Governor of the natural and moral world.
This is designed to expose the notions of theancient Persians, who
held that there were two independent principlesor beings, the one
good and the other evil, by which all things were made, and who
were represented by light and darkness."
See also Bishop Lowth's observations—"The eyes
of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and
the good." (Proverbs xv. 3.) By him "kings reign
and princes decree justice." (Prov. viii. 15.) " He
putteth down one and setteth up another." (Psalm
Ixxv. 7.) And though "There are many devices in
a man's heart ; nevertheless the counsel of the Lord,
that shall stand." (Proverbs xix. 21). That the
Counsels of the Great Creator respecting the world,
and his purposes respecting his creatures cannot be
LETTER X. 205
known, I shall prove from the following passages :—
St. Paul says (Romans xi. 33, &c.) " O the depth
of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of
God ! how UNSEARCHABLE ARE HIS JUDGMENTS, and
his ways past finding out. For who hath known the
mind of the Lord ? Or who hath been his Coun
sellor, &c. For of him, and through him, and to
him are all things ; to whom be glory for ever, Amen."
In Eccles. (x. 14) Solomon says, " A fool also is full
of words; a mam cannot tell what shall be; and
what shall be after him, who can tell him ?"
In Isaiah, (xix. 12,) is the following pointed pas
sage :—"Where are they? Where are thy wise men ?
and let them tell thee now, and let them know what
the Lord of Hosts hath purposed upon Egypt?
Itis further to be remarked also, thatthe divine purpose
cannot be frustrated, for " There is no wisdom, nor
understanding, nor counsel against theLord." (Prov.
xxi. 30.) If "secret things belong to God," as
most assuredly they do, let God have his right, and
let man be content with those that are revealed.
(Deut. xxix. 29.) Before this letter is concluded, I
shall shew that astrology is forbidden by name, but
at present take notice of the following sentiment :
" Joseph is early introduced as looking into the future by his
dreams, in which Jacob concurs. This custom had nothing it-
eUuivtly holy in it, but was heathen, (common, and vulgar ; the
206 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
servants of Pharoah did the same, and the magicians of Egypt
were summoned as a matter of course to interpret his dreams.''
These observations prove that the Lieutenant
knows nothing of the matter. Dreams are either
natural, heavenly, or diabolical. They are natural,
" for a dream cometh through the multitude of busi
ness." (Eccles. v. 3.) They may be heavenly, for
in this manner, Abimelech was informed by God that
Sarah was Abraham's wife. Jacob, Nebuchadnezzar,
and Daniel, had also revelations by dreams. Those
of Joseph being connected with a long train of pro
vidences respecting him, and being so remarkably
fulfilled, were decidedly holy, and they proceeded
immediately from God himself. Dreams may also
be diabolical, as may be proved from Deuteronomy
xiii. I, and Jude 8, compared with some other pas
sages. I think that there is little doubt that they
are now for the most part either natural or from the
bottomless pit ; and that the occasions are very rare,
when the Divine Majesty imparts admonition by
dreams. When they proceed from heaven, their
design is not to make us prophets, but " to withdraw
man from his purpose." (Job xxxiii. 17.) They
are unquestionably a mighty engine in the hands of
the Evil One for the destruction of souls ; and even
those of a religious character are frequently temp
tations from the spirits of darkness, Satan here
LETTER X. 207
transforming himself into an angel of light : he thus
endeavours, by giving some visionary anticipations
respecting the future, to draw the minds of men from
the word of God ; to stir up pride in the heart, and
presuming thoughts respecting the events of the mor
row ; and by presenting them with comforts not suited
to their spiritual condition, he seeks to make them
rest in a false assurance respecting their eternal safety.
The Lieutenant has alluded to Joseph's dreams in
order to justify his sinful and presumptuous en
quiries respecting " what a day may bring forth."
But the Divine procedure under the old dispensation
will afford no warrant for curious speculations re
specting " the times and the seasons" under the new.
The twilight of that remote sera might need such
aid from above; and the fame of the God of Israel
was re-echoed among the heathen by the future
verification of prophetic visions, to the confusion of
idolators, whose deities could foretel nothing: but
the preaching of the Gospel and the circulation of
the Scriptures, are now the great means employed by
Jehovah for evangelizing the nations of the earth.
The absolute impossibility of unassisted man being
able to predict the future is unanswerably established
by the fact, that both the prophets and apostles
needed and possessed a direct inspiration from the
skies for that purpose. The Lieutenant says that,
208 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
" In the Decalogue not a hint falls against looking
into the future." I answer, that whoever attempts
this, sins against every precept. The astrologer
breaks the first commandment, because he departs
from the rule and guidance of God to thatof the stars;
he breaks the second, for the luminaries of heaven
engross his affections, and he bows before them as the
arbiters of his fate ; he breaks the third, for he con
nects the name of God with his abominable system ;
he breaks the 'fourth, by opposing an astrological
heart to the word of life and truth; he breaks the
fifth, for he dishonours his Heavenly Father ; he
breaks the sixth, for he murders the souls of men,
by disseminating astrological principles ; he breaks
the seventh, by committing spiritual fornication, for
"when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin : and
sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death" (James
i. 15) ; he breaks the eighth, for he robs God of his
glory, and men of their money and common sense;
he breaks the ninth, for he bears false witness against
his neighbour, by pretended astrological cautions;
he breaks the tenth, for he covets his neighbour's
property, and employs astrology as a means of getting
it. The astrologer therefore is continually sinning
by wholesale. The Lieutenant refers to Josephus ;
but I have already convicted him of false quotations
from that author. Time and space forbid me now to
LETTER X. 209
enlarge, but the remainder of this second theological
effort of Lieutenant Morrison will receive a full and
complete answer in the volume intended shortly to
be published.
In the Horoscope (page 42), the Lieutenant at
tempts to reply to a very important objection :
" Suppose avessel tobe lostand the whole crew to be drowned,
are we to understand that for each individual a fatal direction
occurs contemporaneously ? This objection applies also to num
bers dying in a battle or by pestilence."
The Lieutenant, in his long and perplexed. an
swer to this query, says—
" Surely there is no difficulty in conceiving the possibility of a
sufficient variety in the arcs of direction, if we remember that the
Sun, Moon, or ascendant comingeithertotheconjunction, square,
op-position, or parallel of Saturn, may produce almost equally
the same death."
This wretched stuff is not worth powder and shot.
But I ask the Lieutenant to find me arcs of direction
for the myriads that perished in the Noachian deluge.
This is an objection which will defy reply, and I leave
him to his thoughts on the subject.
I have now fully examined the principles of as
trology, and have proved them to be baseless, wild,
and visionary, and the climax of maddening folly ;
and the Lieutenant, in his efforts at defence, has not
disturbed a single position of mine, nor refuted a single
p
210 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
argnment. I have also shewn that astrology has the
Father of lies for its author, and is opposed to the
pure government of God and the sanctity of his
word. Astrology leads man from God to trust in an
arm of flesh, mocks him at the time when he most
needs Divine help, sports with his feelings, alarms
him with imaginary dangers, infuses into his mind
vain conjectures respecting future contingencies pa
ralyses his hand for active exertion, deprives him of
the precious truths of the Bible, robs him of the
favour of heaven, and conducts him down to the
chambers of eternal death.
If Lieutenant Morrison wishes himself as well as
I wish him, I recommend to his serious consideration
one passage of scripture in connection with what I
have written.—" Faithful are the wounds ofafriend,
but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful."— Proverbs
xxvii. 6.
I now terminate my observations upon astrology,
with a quotation from the eloquent prophet Isaiah—
" Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels.
Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the
monthly prognosticators, stand up and save thee
from these things which shall come upon thee. Be
hold they shall be as stubble ; the fire shall
burn them; they shall not deliver themselves
from the power of the flame."—Isa. xlvii. 13, 14.
LETTER X. 211
Mr. Editor, the Lieutenant has taken his leave,
and now I take mine, requesting you to accept my
best thanks for the liberal space allotted me in the
columns of your highly esteemed and respectable
paper.
I am, Sir,
Your fery humble servant,
T. H. MOODY.
REMARKS
ON THE REMAINING PART OF
LIEUTENANT MORRISON'S
SECOND
Hfc. Sfc.
In resuming my notice of the productions of this
disciple of the Chaldean sages, my thoughts have
reverted to the period when Zadkiel* first became a
suitor to Lady Luna. What was the cause that me
tamorphosed an officer of the royal navy into a con
sulting astrologer?—I have no distinct information on
this point—Zadkiel himself has not given a hint upon
the subject ; no, not even in his own nativity in the
Horoscope—however, the following conjectures may
not be far from the truth : Charmed with the success
• Zadkiei is the name given by magicians and astrologer's to
Jupiter's angel.
2H REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
of Raphael, who was then a very popular author,
and also scorning the limits which superstitious
bigotry had prescribed to human investigation, and
considering that groundless scruples had too long
" . Repressed his noble rage,
And froze the genial current of his soul,"
he determined to bound into futurity, regardless of
the frowns of the clergy and the sneers of laughing
philosophers, resolved to bear the "odium astro-
logium," not doubting that he should ultimately
rival even the ancient astrologers of Babylon. Fame
seemed to beckon him to her temple. The milky-
way invited his foot-steps ; and the solar walk had
more attractions than the troubled waters of the
ocean. The wild and imposing theories of departed
mystics fascinated his mind ; the golden prospects of
perspective wealth riveted his attention; and certainly,
there was more music in the ringing of a sovereign
on the table, than in the whizzing of a cannon ball
on the high seas. Zadkiel, of course, sets a figure
to ascertain from the heavens themselves, the pro
babilities of success. His significator is found in
good aspect, and the ninth house well inhabited ;
the testimonies of the second house were quite fa
vourable to wealth ; Jupiter and Venus being in
perihelion, are swift in motion, and in good aspect
REMARKS. 215
with the Sun, Moon, and Mercury, which are also
well posited and not afflicted.—The matter is there
fore settled, and his imagination now sparkles with
the anticipation of abundant riches and lasting fame.
Under these circumstances are we to be surprised if
his dreams frequently conducted him to the warm
climes of the east; and that, perhaps, like the famous
astrologer, Dr. Dee, he was haunted with the belief
that he positively had " an intercourse of a supra-
mundane character." The sacred soil of those ori
ental countries, hallowed by recollections of the
midnight studies of ancient astrologers, would be
trodden by the new artist, with awe and veneration.
There, during the unbroken stillness of an eastern sky,
traversing in imagination the mooned plains of Egypt,
he would view the prophetic lustre of the orbs above,
reflected from the dark waters of the Nile, proclaiming
the doom of mortals, the ruin ofnations, and the wreck
of empires. By some mysterious sympathy, under the
agency of Morpheus, the soul of Zadkiel might seem
assimilated with the departed spirits of the ancient
sages of Chaldea; and rapt in prophetic vision, his
mind would dart through a long series of events
connected with unborn generations. The relentless
stars, louring upon our world, fill it with slaughter;
they seem to resound with the din of arms, and to
re-echo political war cries, and with an unseen in
216 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
fluence to hurry on the villains of society to dark
and nameless deeds. Presently, other objects of the
physical world may engross his contemplation. The
storm rages with fearful violence ; the hurricane with
appalling fury sweeps away the herbage of the field,
deracinating shrubs and trees ; and, at last an earth
quake terribly assaults the nerves of the new astro
loger, and rouses him from ignoble slumber. Poor
Zadkiel rubs his eyes, opens his mouth, broods over
the portentious omens of his future destiny, and the
moon at this moment emerging from a dark cloud,
and casting her pale lustre through the curtains of
his apartment, seems, by a peculiar radiance, to
court him from his bed of down to heavenly studies,
and celestial pursuits. He at once surrenders up all
the faculties of his mighty mind to the dominion of
the enchanting goddess, and embarking all his ener
gies in her service, becomes henceforth and for ever
a valiant knight of the stars, ever ready to battle for
lunar influence, even to the last moment of existence
(Zadkiel's Lilly, page ix.) ; saying, to all who consult
him, on every sublunary difficulty, " Me duce tutus
eris," or " With me thou shalt be in safeguard."—
See 1 Samuel xxii. 23.
Is this an overcharged portraiture? I think not;
but believe that a mere faint representation has been
given of those phantoms which frequently haunt the
REMARKS. 217
moon-eyed professors, during the intensity of some of
their fits of abstraction. However, although the Lieut.
may be tolerably versed in the occult dogmas of
astrology, it is demonstratively certain that he is
wofully deficient in the true doctrines of theology;
and that his supernal studies have so beclouded his
intellect, that the whole of the sacred volume is
viewed by him through astrological media. In the
second astrologico-theological letter of this champion
for stellar influence, it is repeatedly asserted that we
are no where in Scripture forbidden " to look into
the future." Now, I apprehend that it has been
fully shewn in the preceding letters, that the future
is not only concealed from mortals by an impe
netrable veil, but that he who attempts to fathom
the counsels of the Deity respecting it, invades his
prerogative, and gives evidence of the awful fatuity
of a mind under the dominion of the prince of dark
ness. I demand of Lieutenant Morrison what means
he has of divining the events which God has pur
posed upon the earth ? (Isaiah xix. 12.) I will
suppose him to answer, " By observing the stars,
the planets, and their aspects, according to the rules
laid down by Ptolemy, Placidus, and Lilly." But
we know that the same question would in effect
have been answered by some ancient Roman diviners,
in the following terms : " By observing the singing
218 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and flight of birds, according to the rules of augury."
And the gypsies, too, of modern days, might reply
to the same interrogatory : " By a careful and dis
criminating notice of cards and their distribution,
according to our established rules of interpretation."
But I would further ask either of these parties, if
the stars and their aspects—the birds and their move
ments—or the cards and their distribution, be means
appointed by Heaven for symbolizing its decrees to
diviners, how came they to know this ? and whence
did they obtain their rules of divination ? But
even were I to grant (which I am very far from doing)
that there is some mysterious sympathy between
" the stars in their courses" in heaven, and mortals
in their courses on the earth, I would ask the Lieut.
when the key of sacred cipher of mundane events
was obtained ? and who was the favoured individual
to whom such a boon was vouchsafed? In the 147th
Psalm it is written, " He telleth the number of the
stars ; he calleth them all by their names." But
who else can do this ? While Sir William Herschel
was exploring the most crowded parts of the milky
way, and counting the stars in a single field of his
telescope, " he was led to conclude that 50,000 had
passed under his review in a zone two degrees in
breadth, during a single hour's observation." He
found this remarkable belt " to consist entirely of
REMARKS. ' 219
stars scattered by millions, like glittering dust, on the
black ground of the general heavens.
" Come forth, 0 man, yon azure round survey.
And view those lamps, which yield eternal day.
Bring foith thy glasses—clear thy wond'ring eyes :
Millions beyond the former millions rise :
Look farther—millions more blaze from remoter skies."
Now, when the ever-changing scenes to which
mortals are subject, are duly considered, and also the
myriads of circumstances which are successively
taking place on the face of the globe ; together with
the acknowledged fact, that the relations of all the
stars to each other, have been continually varying
from their original creation ; we are assured, that
even if there were any connexion between the stars
of heaven and the circumstances of our world, no
thing less than an express revelation from the skies
would enable us to read their silent announcement
respecting future contingencies. I am happy, upon
this part of the subject, to quote some remarks from
that excellent writer, Mons. llollin :
" As for experienc«,they [theastrologers] have still less reason
to flatter themselves on that side. Whatever they have of that,
must consist of observations founded on events, that have always
come to pass in the same manner, whenever the planets are found
in the same situation. Now it is unanimously agreed by all astro
nomers, that several thousand years must pass, before any such
situation of the stars, as they would imagine, can twice happen ;
220 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and it is very certain that the state in which the heavens will be
to-morrow, has never yet been since the creation of the world."—
Ancient History, vol. 2.
To this I may add, that the discoveries of Sir W.
Herschel will warrant the inference that many
millions of years might elapse, without the stars
being found in the same situation that they were at
any former period. If, indeed, they underwent no
changes but those which are produced by the pre
cession of the equinoxes, they would, from any
given period, return to the same right ascensions
and declinations in 25,791 years. But this is not
the case ; and, Sir John Herschel remarks, that
the variations of some of the stars appear to be
affected by physical causes at present unknown.
Our sun, with his system of planets, was supposed
by Dr. Halley and Cassini, to have some motion in
absolute space, directed towards a certain quarter of
the heavens; and Sir William Herschel determined,
that our system is advancing to a point, the right
ascension of which is 250° 52$', and its north polar
distance 40° 22'. However, it is the opinion of as
tronomers at present, " that the science is not yet
matured enough to afford data for any secure con-
• The precession of the equinoxes ',is not a constant quan
tity. The mean annual precession, for many years past, has
been 50'—34.
REMARKS. 221
elusions of this kind." But, strictly speaking, that
there is no such thing as a fixed star, is fully agreed.
Here, perhaps, a few remarks from Sir J. Herschel
may be acceptable to the reader : i
" Their mutual attractions, however inconceivably enfeebled
by distance, and counteracted by opposing attractions from op
posite quarters, must, in the lapse of countless ages, produce some
movements—some change of internal arrangement—resulting from
the difference of the opposing actions. And it is a fact, that such
apparent motionsdoexist, notonly amongsingle,but in many ofthe
double stars ; which, besides revolving round each other, or round
their common centre of gravity, are transformed without parting
company, by a progressive motion, common to both, towards some
determinate region. For example, the two stars of 61 Cygni,
which are nearly equal, have remained constantly at the same, or
very nearly the same, distance of 15* for at least 50 years past.
Meanwhile they have shifted their local situation in the heavens,
in this interval of time, through no less than 4' 23", the annual
proper motion of each star being 5'—3 ; by which quantity (ex
ceeding a third of their interval,) this system is every year carried
bodily along in some unknown path, by a motion which, for many
centuries, must be regarded as uniform and rectilinear. Among
stars not double, p Cassiopeia? is to be remarked as having the
greatestproper motion ofany yet ascertained, amounting to 3'—74
of annual displacement. And a great many others have been ob
served to be thus constantly carried away from their places by
smaller, yut not less unequivocal motions."
That our sun, with his circumvolving planets has
a proper motion in some direction, is now generally
acknowledged ; but the solar motion is not supposed
to be rectilineal, but to be performed round some
222 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
remote and unknown centre. And although it is not
imagined that there is any immense central body,
around which all the systems of the universe cir
culate, yet many modern astronomers agree with
Mons. Lalande, that there may be a kind of equi
librium among all the systems of the world; and
that isolated stars, clusters, and nebulae, may all be
revolving round the common centre of gravity of the
universe.
" . Mazes intricate,
Eccentric, intervolved ; yet regular,
Then most, when most irregular they seem."
Miltos.
That the whole heavens are concerned in bringing
about the events of this world, was the opinion of
Ptolemy, and I have already stated, that therefore
our stargazers would need a revelation from heaven
to guide them in their predictions. But far gone in
foolery, and I might add in knavery too, as every
moon-calf is, no astrologer has ever pretended to
have received one. Indeed, the rules by which
these gentry profess to regulate their calculations
respecting the affairs of this world are well known ;
and I have shewn them to be the sublime creation of
the sublime Asses of Egypt and Chaldea; and we
have seen astrology powerless and impotent in Ba
bylon, the very place where it was most cultivated.
REMARKS. 223
(Isaiah xlvii. 1 1 to 14.) Is it necessary that I should
reassert, that God alone foresees what will be the
effect of his providential dispensations, and that he
has his own immutable plan respecting them ? The
page of prophecy abounds with predictions respecting
the grand eras of this world, to the latest period of
its existence; and though most of these are apparently
dependent upon the contingencies of human volition,
yet they are as certain in their accomplishment as the
progressive revol utions of the heavenly bodies. Take,
as an example, the prophecies of our Saviour, toge
ther with his recorded genealogies. We know that
the precise period of his incarnation was settled in the
Divine counsels, before the foundation of the world.
In the book of Revelations (xiii. 8.) Christ is deno
minated "the Lamb slain from the foundation of
the world ;" and in Galatians (iv. 4, 5), it is written
" But when the fulness of the time was come, God
sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under
the law, to redeem them that were under the law,
that we might receive the adoption of sons." Now,
if any of the descendants ef David had intermarried
differently than they did, or had been born earlier
or later than they were, or had lived a longer or
shorter period upon the earth, it is certain that our
Lord would not have been born into the world
under the same circumstances, and at that precise
224 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
period of time in which he was. But he came in
" the fulness of the time," for there are no con
tingencies with Heaven—no casualties in the Divine
government—all is regulated according to God's fore
knowledge, with unerring wisdom, and with im
mutable certainty— " My counsel shall stand, and
I will do all my pleasure."—Isaiah xlvi. 10.
The eternal counsel of Jehovah is here noticed
as connected with that superlatively grand epoch,
the birth of our Lord ; but it also comprehends the
duration of the world, together with every event
both in time and eternity. For it is written " He
hath appointed a day in which he will judge the
-world in righteousness by that man whom he hath
ordained." (Acts xvii. 31.) And it is of supreme
importance to us all to bear in mind, that the ex
ecution of all his purposes here, is only preparatory
to the high decisions of eternity. In Ecclesiastes
(iii. 14.) we read, "I know that whatsoever God
doeth it shall be for ever : nothing can be put to
it, nor any thing taken from it : and God doth it,
that men should fear before him." The kingdom
that the saints will inherit, is not only a prepared
kingdom, but one " prepared from the foundation of
the world." (See Matthew xxv. 34, and Ephesians
i. 4.) The number of " the elect people of God"
is unquestionabjy settled in the Divine counsels ;
REMARKS. 225
for " The Lord knoweth them that are his" (2 Tim.
ii. 19); he knows for whom he more especially died
(1 Tim. iv. 10) ; for he " laid down his life for the
sheep" (John x. 15); he "loved the church and
gave himself for it" (Ephesians v. 25) ; and when
on earth, in his beautiful prayer (John xvii.) he said
" Father, I will, that they also, whom thou hast given
me, be with me where I am, that they may behold
my glory, which thou hast given me." The earth
therefore, will remain till the last elect soul shall be
sealed by the Spirit of the Lord, as it is written,
(Rev. vii. 3) " Hurt not the earth, neither the sea,
nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our
God in their foreheads, and I heard the number of
them that were sealed." (See also Ephesians i. 13.)
The righteous, therefore, are in the most compre
hensive sense, "the salt of the earth" (Matt. v. 13.)
The eternal purpose of God has evidently settled all
that shall be born into the world, with the attendant
circumstances of each, and it relates to nations and
political communities as well as to individuals ; for
" The counsel of the Lord standeth for ever, and the
thoughts of his heart to all generations" (Psalm
xxxiii. 11) : for " One generation passeth away, and
another cometh" (Ecclesiastes i. 4.) according to the
Divine appointment.
1
226 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
" Lord I ascribe it to thy grace,
And not to chance as others do ;
That I was born of Christian race,
And not a heathen or a Jew."—Watts.
I now proceed further to confirm these remarks,
by express testimony from the word of God. In
the covenant which God made with Abraham is the
following important announcement : " And I will
bless her [Sarah] and give thee a son also of her ;
yea I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of
nations ; kings of people shall be born of her ;
* * * * and as for Ishmael, I have heard thee, &c.
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make
him a great nation." (See Genesis xvii. 16 to 20.)
Of the Lord's predestination respecting nations, we
have also a strikinginstance in the following passage :
"And the Lord said unto her [Rebecca], two na
tions are in thy womb, and two manner of peo
ple shall be separated from thy bowels ; and the
one people shall be stronger than the other peo
ple ; and the elder shall serve the younger." (Gen.
xxv. 23.) Here we are to observe, that the Israelites
were the posterity of Jacob, and the Edomites the
offspring of Esau : the Israelites and the Edomites
are, therefore, the two nations referred to in this
prediction ; and as it is certain that Esau never served
Jacob in his own person ; and as it is recorded that,
REMARKS. 227
during the reign of David, the Edomites became sub
ject to the Israelites ; it is clear that this scripture
refers not to Esau and Jacob as individuals, but to
their posterity as two distinct nations.—In Genesis
(xlix. 1.) it is written, " And Jacob called unto his
sons and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may
tell you that which shall befal you in the last days."
But, here again, the reference of the prediction is
not to Jacob's sons, as individuals, but to their
posterity. A judicious commentator has the fol
lowing remarks upon Reuben :
" He was the first-bom ; but by committing incest (ch.xxxv.
22) he forfeited the prerogative of the birth-right ; and his dying
father here solemnly degrades him. He shall have all the privi
leges of a son, but not of a first-born. We have reason to think
Ruben had repented of his sin, and that it was pardoned, yet it
was necessary to put this mark of disgrace upon him. Jacob
here casts him down by that one word ' Thou shalt not excel a
being thou shalt have as a tribe, butnot an excellency. No judge,
no prophet, no prince, is found of that tribe, nor any person of
renown, only Dathan and Abiram, who are noticed for their im
pious rebellion against Moses."
Prophecy, however, is not restricted to nations ;
it extends to individuals, and the four following
passages beautifully illustrate the wonderful wisdom
and knowledge of God, and prove that nothing comes
to pass independent of his eternal purpose. In the
1st of Kings (xiii. 1) we have the prediction of the
228 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
birth of Josiah, 350 years before it took place:"
"And behold, there came a man of God out of
Judah, by the word of the Lord unto Bethel, and
Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense. And
he cried against the altar in the word of the Lord,
and said, O altar, altar, thus saith the Lord, behold
a child shall be born unto the house of David, Josiah
by name; and upon thee shall he offer the priests
of the high places that burn incense upon thee." In
the 2d of Kings (xxiii. 15) are the particulars of
the literal fulfilment of this prophecy; and it is re
markable, that there is no instance recorded of any
child being named Josiah d uring the prophetic in
terval of 350 years. In the 45th chapter of Isaiah,
the birth of Cyrus is announced 200 years before
the event, as the destined instrument for the de
struction of Babylon ; and, in the 3d and 4th verses,
it is said, " And I will give thee the treasures of
darkness, and the hidden riches of secret places, that
thou mayest know that I the Lord, which call thee
by thy name, am the God of Israel. For Jacob my
servant's sake, and Israel mine elect, I have even
called thee by thy name; I have surnamed thee
though thou hast not known me."—Here it is to be
observed, that Croesus, King of Lydia, the richest
monarch of the east, was subdued by the arms of
Cyrus ; and we are assured that the period of the
REMARKS. 229
birth of the Lydian prince, and the events of his reign,
must have all been under the Divine control. In the
3d chapter of Malachi, is a prophecy of St. John the
Baptist, as the forerunner of the Messiah ; and it is
quoted by our Lord as such in Matthew (xi. 10).—
In the 109th Psalm, we have a full and distinct pre
diction of the traitor Judas ; and that it is so, we
ground on the inspired authority of the apostle Peter
(Acts i. 20). See also Jeremiah i. 5. How won
derful are these prophetic announcements ! A little
reflection may convince us, that the remarks which
have been made respecting the period of our Saviour's
incarnation, may also be applied to Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, and their descendants ; to Cyrus, Croesus,
and Belshazzar ; and also to John the Baptist, and
Juda3. And, passing to the apostles, are we to sup
pose that mere accident made them to be contem
porary with our Lord ? or that mere chance brought
Felix and Paul into the world about the same period
of time ?—By no means : for it is written, " To every
thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose
under the heaven : a time to be born, and a time to
die" (Ecclesiastes iii. 1 and 2.) In Acts (xvii. 26)
we read, " And hath made of one blood all nations
of men, for to dwell in all the face of the earth, and
hath determined the times before appointed, and
the bounds of their habitation." David, therefore,
230 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
says (Ps. xxxi. 15), "My times are. in thy hand;"
and Job (xiv. 5, 6) " Seeing his days are determined,
the number of his months are with thee, thou hast
appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; turn from
him that he may rest, till he shall accomplish as an
hireling his day." And if we refer to the 2d chapter
of Daniel, we shall find that it is God who " changeth
the times and the seasons ;" and that the existence
and duration of nations and empires, and all their
vicissitudes form a part of the special purpose of the
Most High. In Genesis (vi. 3) it is written, " My
Spirit shall not always strive with man, for he also
is flesh, yet his days shall be 120 years." It is
therefore clear, that the day when Noah entered
the ark, was a day fixed by Him who worketh all
things according to the counsel of his own will. In
Genesis (xv. 12, 13) "And when the sun was going
down a deep sleep fell upon Abram ; and lo! a hor
ror of great darkness fell upon him, and he said unto
Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a
stranger in a land which is not theirs, and shall serve
them ; and they shall afflict them 400 years." Let
this be compared with Exodus (xii. 40) "Now the
sojourning of the Children of Israel, who dwelt in
Egypt was 430 years. And it came to pass at the
end of the 430 years, even the selfsame day, it
came to pass, that all the hosts of the Lord went out
REMARKS. 231
from the land of Egypt."—In the former passage,
the period is reckoned from the birth of Isaac, but
in the latter from the departure of Abram from Ur
of the Chaldees. I cannot extend my remarks to the
prophecies concerning Tyre, Nineveh, Judea, Ba
bylon, Egypt, Rome, and the Asiatic churches. It
is sufficiently evident, that all events are not only
subject to the control and providence of God, but
that they emanate from his eternal counsel respecting
the world. And if we examine those prophecies
which more particularly relate to the Church of
Christ, we shall find a concatenation of predictions
respecting it, reaching to the great day of judgment.
It may further be remarked, that the private and
peculiar affairs of individuals must necessarily be in
cluded in the eternal purpose of God with regard to
his creatures, but as I have already, in the preceding
letters, quoted numerous passages to establish this
fact, I shall here only refer to Job xxiii. 13 and 14.
" But he is in one mind, and who can turn him?
and what his soul desireth even that he doeth. For
he performeth the thing that is appointed for me,
and many such things are with him."
I trust that I shall not here be misunderstood ; I
am not advocating fatality : I hold man to be a free
agent, and therefore a responsible being. No one is
necessitated to rob or murder his neighbour, or the
232 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
sixth and eighth commandments would be absurd.
My subject leads me to consider predestination only
so far as connected with external circumstances ; not
as it relates to the moralfeelings of the soul. I shall
therefore not expatiate upon the distinction between
free agency and free will, but only observe, that man
cannot choose that which is good without a Divine
influence, for it is written, "A man can receive no
thing except it be given him from heaven" (John
iii. 27). If it be said a man may choose good if ke
will; this is admitted; but as he cannot choose
good against his will, and as he is born with a will
hostile to the Divine law, he cannot choose good
without the aid of the Holy Spirit. But, notwith
standing this fact, I agree with Mr. Newton, that the
human will is never forced ; and with that excellent
commentator, Matthew Henry, that there is no man
in hell who might not have been out of it, for man's
destruction is of himself : "Why will ye die O house
of Israel?" (Ezekiel xviii. 31.) It is certain that
there are speculative difficulties connected with this
subject (Romans xi. 33), but there are no prac
tical ones (Matthew vii. 7 and 8). It is proper further
to remark, that even the the voluntary sins of men,
though infinitely hateful to God, cannot in the least
interfere with the evolution of his purposes respecting
the world ; for even these, by his wonderful over
ruling providence, are made subservient to the ac-
REMARKS. 233
complishmentof his gracious designs. The argument
against astrology, as derived from the Divine decrees,
concerning the events of the world, is now plain and
straight forward. Lieutenant Morrison affirms that
the stars and their aspects are the means by which
the ends of providence are brought about. But if
this be so, he and the whole host of celestial vi
sionaries cannot defeat them ; and therefore their
predictions tend only to make men wretched and mi
serable before the times of visitation. And all that
any counter reasoning on their side can amount to is
this : that the Almighty has created awful influences
in the heaven—
" Impendent horrors, threatening hideous, fall
One day upon our heads."—Miltow.
that we, like the King of Persia, may be ever con
sulting the moonish philosophers how to escape them.
—O admirable philosophy,! but it is the philosophy
of such rogues and vagabonds as Paddon, the astro
loger of the nineteenth century, noticied at p. 184.
The following passage of Berosus, as quoted by
Josephus, is adduced by the Lieutenant to prove that
the patriarch Abraham was an astrologer :
'* Among the Chaldeans a man righteous and great, and skil
ful in the celestial sciences."
Now, Abraham lived about 1200 years before
Berosus; what then could Berosus know of Abraham?
234 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and it is allowed that he was an author who dealt
much in fiction. Even Herodotus, who is styled the
father of ancient history, and who flourished B.C.
484, has introduced so much into his narrative upon
the verbal authority of visionaries, that many things
contained in his works are rejected by the learned
as unworthy of credit. The truth is that, with the
exception of the Holy Scriptures, we have not one
well authenticated fact upon record prior to the in
stitution of the Olympic games, 776 years before
Christ. Were we to give implicit credit to Herodotus,
who inserted so much in his narrative solely on the
authority of the Egyptian priests, we should believe
that from Pan to Amosis were 15,000 years, and from
Hercules to Amosis, 17,000 years. Sir Isaac New
ton, in his Chronicle of the Greeks, says—
"Some of the Greeks called the times before the reign of
Ogyges, obscure, because they had no history of them ; those
between the floodand the beginning of the Olympiads, fabulous,
because their history was much mixed with poetical fables."
If then, we desire to know whether Abraham
was an astrologer, let us consult that book which is
neither obscure nor fabulous —even God's infallible
word, and attend to what he himself has recorded
concerning his servant. St. Paul, writing under the
influence and guidance of the Holy Spirit, says,
(Heb. xi. 8,) " By faith Abraham, when he was
REMARKS. 235
called to go out into a place, which he should after
receive for an inheritance, obeyed ; and he went out
not knowing whither he went." Now, if Abraham
astrologically calculated the movements of his life,
according to the configurations of the moving orbs of
heaven, he would, according to the Lieutenant, have
known all about it; ay, even to the ultimate con
sequences of such a journey.—But, let this sturdy
veteran of folly know, that we have an easy answer
to such a calumny against the father of the faith
ful. Abraham walked by faith in the Son of God,
and not by the astrologer's moonshine ; he set the
Lord always before him, and not the astrologer's
insane horoscope; and he not only left Chaldea,
committing his way unto the Lord, but also when he
arrived in the land of promise, we know that this
heavenly principle of faith was the invariable rule
of his life ; for the apostle adds, " By faith he so
journed in the land of promise as in a strange
country," &c. and in the 18th verse we are told,
that " By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered
up his son Isaac," &c.—The ancient patriarch had
recourse to no astrological figure of the heavens to
discover the purposes of Deity. One star only en
gaged his attention, and that was " The bright and
morning star" (Rev. xxii. 16), which he knew,
though at a period far remote, would certainly arise
236 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
on a benighted world; as it is written, "Abraham
rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad."
(John viii. 56.) It is clear from the Bible itself,
that the life of Abraham was a life of faith, and not
that of a lunar visionary.—Let the Lieutenant be
ware of Rev. xxii. 18.
We are next informed that Philo and Josephus
both agree that Moses also understood astrology,
and " that he even alluded to it in the mysterious
ornaments of the tabernacle." The following quota
tion from Josephus is then given :
" By branching out the candlestick into seventy parts, he se
cretly intimated the Decani, or seventy divisions of the planets ;
and as to the seven lamps upon the candlesticks, they referred to
the course of the planets, of which that is the number. • • •
Each of the sardonyxes declares to us the sun and moon, those, I
mean, which were in the nature of buttons on the high priest's
shoulders."
I here remark, that when Josephus, some years
before, wrote his book of the Jewish war (vol. iv.
chap, v.), he made the seven branches of the temple
candlesticks, with their seveu lamps, emblematical of
the first seven days of the world ; how is it then that
he here gives another interpretation of their mystical
meaning. The answer is, because he had since read
the writings of Philo, a Jewish writer of Alexandria,
who lived about a.d. 40, and from him he took it.
It is further to bo observed that Philo was deeply
REMARKS. 237
versed in heathen literature; and so also was Jo-
sephus when he penned this new interpretation,
which will better agree with the philosophy of the
gentile heathens, than with the nature of the typical
ritual of the Jewish nation. But even were I to
allow the Lieutenant the full benefit of these quo
tations, brought to prove Abraham and Moses to be
astrologers, his attempt is abortive; for their bearing
is merely astronomical—not a word about astrology.
Besides, as Moses wrote by Divine inspiration, he
would not have made a false analogia ; for the planets
of the solar system are now known to exceed the
number mentioned by Josephus. And here it is
proper to add, that while the lamp of God's truth
will continue to illumine the tabernacle of his church,
we read of some whose " lamp shall be put out in
obscure darkness."
The Lieutenant then says that if astrology be
sinful, " Moses neglected to say so, though he gave
instruction what to do when they found a bird's nest"
(Deuteronomy xxii. t>.)—It has already, by express
scripture, been clearly shewn, that Moses prohibited
all kinds of divination, and therefore, astrology,
which, of all its forms, is the most presumptuous. The
law in Deuteronomy respecting the finding of a nest,
is noticed as if it were a matter so trivial, as scarcely
to be worthy of the subject of legislation ; but it was
238 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
one of those merciful constitutions in the Mosaic code
that taught man to exercise his dominion over the
lower animals with gentleness and mercy. This law
seems also to have been designed to prevent the ex
tirpation of any species of birds ; for by letting the
dam go free, the breed might be continued. "The
tender mercies of God are over all his works" (Psalm
cxlv. 9.) The young never chanted their wild
notes to the rising morn, nor carolled to the evening
breeze ; but the dam, having known the sweets of
liberty, was not to be deprived of them. The astro
loger is prone to " exalt himself as the eagle, and set
his nest among the stars" (Obad. iv.), but as it is only
the righteous that shall shine as the stars of heaven,
he will certainly be brought down from his imaginary
elevation, and, if he repent not, will find himself
among those wandering stars " to whom is reserved
the blackness of darkness for ever" (Jude 13.)
The Lieut. then refers to Deuteronomy xxvii.
12 and 13, and says—
" Six of the tribes were to stand upon mount Gerizim to bless
for obedience ; and six upon mount Ebal to curse the people for
disobedience to the law ; and though, on thisoccasion, many less
important offences were enumerated, notahint it dropped against
astrology."
But I refer him to the 18th verse of this chapter,
where it is written " Cursed be he that maketh the
239 REMARKS.
blind to wander out of the way." God claims to
himself the sole prerogative to direct the way of the
blind : " I will bring the blind by a way that they
knew not" (Isaiah xlii. 16) : but the astrologer is a
blind guide, that causeth those who consult him " to
wander in the wilderness, where there is no way."
He then refers to Deuteronomy xxxiii. 26—" There
is none like unto the God of Jeshurun,w^o rideth upon
the heaven in thy help"— and remarks that no cau
tion is here given to the people, "not to suppose by
this language that the Lord makes use of the heavens
to bring about his will." The Lieutenant here
proves himself a stranger to the beauties of Hebrew
poetry. When God is said to ride, it denotes his
speedy and majestic appearance to destroy his ene
mies. I shall quote some passages to prove this
observation :
" Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most Mighty,
with thy glory and thy majesty, and in thy majesty
ride prosperously because of truth and meekness, and
righteousness ; and thy right hand shall teach thee
terrible things" (Tsalm xlv. 3, 4.) " He bowed the
heavens also, and came down, and darkness was
under his feet : and he rode upon a cherub and did
fly ; yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind"
(Psalm xviii. 9, 10.) "Sing unto God, sing praises
to his name : extol him that rideth upon the hea
240 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
vens, by his name Jah, and rejoice before him"
(Psalm lxviii. 4.) Here, it may be observed, that
God's chariots are angels, providences, and
clouds.—"The chariots of God are twenty thou
sand, even thousands of angels : the Lord is among
them, as in Sinai, in the holy place" (Psalm lxviii.
17.) " Was the Lord displeased against the rivers ?
was thine anger against the rivers ? was thy wrath
against the sea, that thou didst ride upon thy horses
and thy chariots of salvation?" (Hab. iii. 8.) The
Lord often delivered Israel " with his horses and
chariots of salvation," and even changed the course of
nature, dividing the red sea and the river Jordan when
they opposed the progress of his people.—"For be
hold the Lord will come with fire, and with his cha
riots like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury,
and his rebuke with flames of fire : for by fire and
by his sword will the Lord plead with all flesh:
and the slain of the Lord shall be many" (Isaiah
lxvi. 15, 16.) The beginning of the 104th Psalm
beautifully illustrates this subject: " Bless the Lord,
O my soul. O Lord my God, thou art very great ;
thou art clothed with honour and majesty. Who
coverest thyself with light as with a garment : who
stretchest out the heavens like a curtain : who layeth
the beams of his chambers in the waters : who
maketh the clouds his chariot : who walketh upon
KEMARKS. 241
the wings of the wind: who maketh his angels
spirits [winds], his ministers a flame of fire." We
are taught by these eloquent passages of holy writ,
that all nature is in the hand of God, and every in
dividual under his control; and that his 'wonderful
purposes are frequently carried into execution by
a combination of unknown causes, and with an in
conceivable rapidity that infinitely surpasses human
imagination : "The ways of God are past findingout."
The Lieutenant proceeds to observe, that the
Israelites were never charged with the sin of looking
into the future, although
" Itwas the common practice to look into the future,or decide
unknown matters by carting lots, a mode of divining always com
mon among the eastern nations, and mentioned by Ptolemy."
All lots imply a reference to some superhuman
power for decision. To believe in chance, is to rob
God of his glory as the Governor of the world, and
to follow the doctrine of the Epicureans.
" All nature is but art unknown to thee :
All chance, direction, which thou canst not see."
Pope.
To suppose that the affairs 01 the world are con
ducted by chance is atheism ; and it is certain that
whatever may be the secondary causes which influ-
R
242 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
ence the diversified circumstances of human life,
these are all under the control of Him "in whom we
live, move, and have our being" (Acts xvii. 28.) It
is God that determines the lot of all (Psalm lxxv.6.)
A lot, according to the scriptures, is a solemn ap
peal to Him who made, and who also governs us,
for his immediate interposition in the determination
of some matter of importance; and it should only be
employed on such occasions as may glorify God. In
Proverbs xvi. 33, we read " The lot is cast into the
lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord."
Also, in Proverbs xviii. 18—" The lot causeth con
tentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty."
Where the matter is of great moment, and yet diffi
cult to settle, it may be good to refer it to the Lord,
and decide it by a lot. By lot the land of Canaan
was divided among the Hebrew tribes. (See Num
bers xxvi. 55, and 56, and also xxxiii. 54.) By
lot Saul was chosen the sovereign of the Hebrew
kingdom (1 Sam. x. 21), and Matthias made an
apostle (Acts i. 24—26). The instance noticed
by the Lieutenant, is that of 1 Samuel xiv. 41
and 42, where Jonathan was discovered to have
tasted some honey, contrary to the command of
Saul, who had suid, " Cursed be the man that eateth
any food until the evening, that I may be avenged on
mine enemies." This was unwise, " for daily work
REMARKS. 243
cannot be done without daily bread;" and indeed,
Jonathan foresaw that the spirits of his soldiers would
flag for want of sustenance. In the 37th verse it is
said, "And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go
down after the Philistines —wilt thou deliver them
into the hand of Israel ? But he answered him not
that day." As Saul received no answer from hea
ven, he concluded that there must be some iniquity
in the camp, but was far from supposing it to be in
himself, and lots were therefore cast to discover the
offender, and Jonathan was taken. By this event,
Saul was led to pronounce sentence upon himself:
"And Saul answered, God do so to me, and more
also, for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan." If Saul
thought that the regal dignity required, that a slight
breach of a mere arbitrary command deserved death,
conscience should have led him to tremble before
Him by whom " kings reign and princes decree
justice" (Proverbs viii. 15), for his own repeated
and presumptuous violations of the law of God. Lots
are evidently of a sacred character, and the instances
referred to by the Lieutenant will afford him no
warrant for attempting to divine what may be in the
womb of futurity. Every lot must be disposed of
either by God or by the Devil. But although the real
character of a lot implies an appeal to God for de
cision, yet we have reason to believe that in all games
244 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
of chance the Devil has an active agency, which,
however, is limited and controlled by the Most High ;
for " The eyes of the Lord are in every place, be
holding the evil and the good" (Proverbs xv. 3) ;
and though " He is angry with the wicked every
day" (Palm vii. 11), yet he does not " stir up all his
wrath" against them, till their iniquity is full; and
therefore, so long as the door of mercy is open, Satan
can only attack them with limitations. Severe losses
should certainly lead men to reflection, for they are
Divine rebukes, and are sent for that purpose.
Those who are hardened in villainy, and whose trade
is gaming, may be permitted to prosper for a time,
but such characters at last, are generally " suddenly
destroyed, and that without remedy" (Prov. xxix.
1). If then, the nature and character of a lot be
solemn and sacred, it can only be employed on such
occasions as are worthy of the Divine interposition.
The Lieutenant reminds us that " the nations
surrounding the Jews were astrologers ;" and quotes
Maimonides, but to little purpose, and says that when
Solomon fell away to worship Ashtoreth, Chemosh,
and other gods of those astrological nations, " that
as he was denounced for that, he would have been'
tor adopting their astrological doctrines, if this were
sinful."—This argument supposes that Solomon was
no astrologer before he departedfrom the Lord, and
REMARKS. 245
we read (1 Kings xi. 3), that "his wives turned away
his heart ;" and it is important to observe, that " So
lomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the
children of the east country, and all the wisdom of
Egypt" (1 King3 iv. 30.) According to the Lieut.'s
own argument, astrology formed no part of the
wisdom communicated to Solomon by God ; and that
if he ever became an astrologer, it was not by Divine
teaching, but by a sinful intercourse with idolatrous
women, who walked in darkness, and were under the
curse- of Heaven. However, it may be added, that
grievously as Solomon sinned against the Lord his
God, there is not the slightest reason to suppose that
he ever " adopted astrological doctrines."
The Lieutenant thus proceeds :
"In the days of Hoshea, the people left the Lord, and took to
worshipping ' all the host of heaven,' and used divination and en
chantment' (2 Kings xvit.) It is plain that the divination here
named was different from that innocent kind of divination used
by Samuel, &c. They used the divination Saul alludes to when
he says, ' Divine unto me by the familiar spirit.' It is plain,
I say, that there was a vast difference between merely looking
into the future by the decision of heaven, and the doing so by
appealing to the spirits of darkness."
The distinction here contended for, is altogether gra
tuitous. Divination is a generic term, compre
hending a variety of abominable heathen practices
246 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
to discover future events. In Deuteronomy (xviii.
9 to 14) it is written, ''When thou art come into
the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou
shalt not learn to do after the abominntions of those
nations. There shall not be found among you any
one who maketh his son or daughter to pass through
the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of
times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or
a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a
necromancer, for all that do these things are an abo
mination unto the Lord : and because of these abo
minations, the Lord thy God doth drive them out
from before thee." All conformity to heathen prac
tices is here strictly forbidden, and all kinds of divi
nation are declared to be an abomination unto the
Lord. When men depart from the Lord, to serve the
" god of this world," their subjection to their dark
ruler is soon known, by a tenacious adherence to
his ordinances.
With regard to Samuel's divination, I will quote
a paragraph from Stellarius (Hor.page 18), and which
is warmly applauded by the Lieutenant:
" la the dajs of Samuel, it appears to have been a common
custom to go to the seers, not only to be informed concerning
future contingencies, but also to enquire after lost goods. To this
effect, we find Saul and his servant discoursing, when they were
sent out to 6nd the strayed asses of Kish, Saul's father ; and not
being able to find them, the servant proposes to go and enquire
REMARKS. 247
of the seer which way the asses were gone, and where they may
be found. Saul agrees to this, but asks ' what have we to give
him, &c.' Theservantreplies, ' I have the fourth part of a shekel
of silver, I will give him that.' Saul answers, * Well said ; let
us go."
It is true that at one period, prophets were called
seers, because they had more knowledge than others.
However, they foretold future events, not by any
sinful divination, but by the inspiration of the Holy
Ghost (1 Samuel xix. 23), and they always delivered
their predictions in the name ofthe Lord,from whom
they received them. Sometimes the mind of God
was revealed by dreams, voices, and visions ; and at
others, by a powerful, efficacious impression of his
will on the understanding. Prophets were raised up
by God for high and glorious purposes, and not to
tell where strayed asses were to be found ; and who
ever would invest the prophet Samuel with such an
office as this, must, I think, have some relationship
to the wanderers which engaged the pursuit of Saul.
With regard to the proposed present to Samuel, it
was an invariable custom in the east in ancient
times, that no one ever asked a favour of a superior
with empty hands : some acknowledgment was
always made. The practice is still continued in
Bengal and some other places, as we may learn
from "Ward's Customs." The proposed offering to
Samuel was equivalent to about nine pence sterling ;
248 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
it must, therefore, have been intended principally as
a token of respect. Saul was informed by Samuel
that the asses were found, that his mind might be
free to attend to more important communications
from the prophet, and ponder on the high dignity
that God was about to confer on him.
The Lieutenant's observations respecting Ma-
nasseh, are unworthy of the slightest notice. He
passes on to David, and quotes several parts of the
19th Psalm ; but I reply that the voice of the stars
in this psalm is a voice of praise to their Creator—
" For ever singing, as they shine,
The hand that made us is divine."—Addison.
The book of psalms will afford no chants for the
praises of astrology : it is a book of experience ;
and we find David in every trouble and perplexity,
not erecting a horoscope for divination, but pouring
out his heart before the Lord (Psalm lxii). The
Lieut. pleads that David did not think it necessary
to avoid such language as might convey a belief in
astrology. I answer there is no language which can be
employed in the praise of God, that crafty and
wicked men may not more or less pervert; and
that the sacred writers did not regulate their ex
pressions by the possibility of perversion, but they
poured forth their hearts in such strains as comported
REMARKS. 249
with the grand and magnificent subjects that occupied
their minds.
The prophet Isaiah is next quoted ; but that this
evangelical prophet was no friend to dreamers and
astrologers, may be seen from Isaiah xliv. 25, and
xlvii. 13. He passes on to Micah iii. and we are
presented with the following passage : "Thussaith
the Lord, concerning the prophets that make my peo
ple to err, that bite with their teeth, and cry peace ;
and he that putteth not into their mouths, they even
prepare war against him : therefore night shall be
unto you, that ye shall not have a vision ; and it shall
be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine ; and the
sun shall go down over the prophets, and the day
shall be dark over them. Then shall the seers be
ashamed and the diviners confounded : yea, they
shall all cover their lips ; for there is no answer of
God." The Lieutenant here observes, that "it is plain
that they [the prophets] were accustomed to enquire
of God by means of divination." But, in opposition
to such a daring assertion, I say it is clear that
this is spoken not of the true prophets, with whom
was the word of the Lord, but of those diabolical
diviners who caused the people to err from the paths
of the Lord. Such wretches should be silent, and
compelled to admit, that they could obtain no answer
from God—the sun should go down upon these
250 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
diviners — not a ray from the throne of heaven should
reach them, and an eternal night of calamity speedily
overtake them.
The Lieutenant adds—
" In the same book of Micah, we find that among God's
judgments, the people were to be deprived of their diviners, for it
Bays ' Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast a cord by lot
in the congregation of the Lord.' "
In answer to this, I quote an excellent com
mentator :
" Woe to those from whom God turns away. Instead of re
storing he has divided our fields ; he has confirmed those in pos
session that have taken them from us: God shall ratify what they
say in their despair. Thou shalt have none to cast a cord by lot
in the congregation of the Lord : none to divide inheritances :
there shall be no inheritance to divide, for all shall be in the
enemy's hand."
The Lieutenant then quotes the prophet Jeremiah,
and says, that the fearful judgments of God were to
be executed on Babylon and its graven images, but
" not upon the men who practised astrology." I
here merely reiterate the quotation from Isaiah (xlvii.
13), that the astrologers "shall not deliver them
selves from the power of the flame."
Daniel is next noticed as " master of the astro
logers." But he was so designated from the dark
ignorance that prevailed where he was ; for the
whole narrative proves that all which Daniel did,
REMARKS. 251
was by immediate revelation from heaven, and not
by observing astrological aspects.
The Lieutenant then proceeds to quote a few
passages from the New Testament, all of which,
whatever he may think, are condemnatory of astro
logical abominations. However, I refer him to Acts
xix. 19—" Many of them [which believed] also
which used cuRtous arts, brought their books to
gether, and burned them before all men," &c. The
apostle did not think it necessary to particularize
all these curious arts, but the language employed is
general, and therefore the condemnation general of
all modes of divination.
The Lieutenant further says—
" The texts quoted by Mr. Moody to prove that men should
put their trust in God's providence alone, none will dispute, but
they are beside the question ; because we are still to use the means
he has given us to avoid evil, &c."
But of these means, he supposes astrology to be
the chief ; but this is to call upon the Devil " in the
day of trouble." He returns to Isaiah, and quotes
the 41st chapter and 23d verse :—" Shew the things
that are to come hereafter, that we may know that
ye are gods : yea, do good or do evil, that we may
be dismayed, and behold it together." The Lieut,
endeavours to get rid of the challenge to idolaters to
" shew the things that were to come hereafter," by
252 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
saying, " that they were equally defied to show the
former things ;" supposing that this clause alludes
to those which were past. But Bishop Louth ren
ders this passage thus :
"Let them approach, and tell us the things that shall
happen :
The things that shall first happen, what they are, let
them tell us,
And we will consider them ; and we shall know the
event."
It is certain that by " the former things" is meant,
the former of those which were to happen hereafter.
He then quotes Jeremiah (x. 2), and contends that
" not to be discouraged at the signs of heaven is no
command to disbelieve them." To confute this, I
give the passage in its connection :—" Thus saith the
Lord, learn not the way of the heathen, and be not
dismayed at the signs of heaven ; for the heathen are
dismayed at them. For the customs of the people
are vain," &c. The prophet then proceeds to shew
that the superstitious fear which the Babylonians
had of imaginary signs of evil, had led them to
idolatry. This caution against the astrological and
idolatrous customs of Babylon, was peculiarly ne
cessary to a people who were soon to be conducted
thither as captives.
Lieutenant Morrison, lastly, endeavours to shew
REMARKS. 253
that the idolatrous observance of times, by the
Romans and other heathen nations, is no argument
against the mere astrological observance of them ;
as " when the Moon is with Venus for marriage, &c.
which days are never fixed, but vary continually."
I reply, that the sacred prohibition is against all
superstitious observances of times whether fixed or
not ; and that as astrology has been proved to be an
absurd, knavish, and impious art, all its principles
and practices shoilld be rejected with detestation by
every man of piety and wisdom.
1
, „ 9**
ROYAL NATIVITIES.
Dr. Johnson remarks that at the time Butler's Hu-
dibras was published, astrology had a very extensive
dominion ; and that " its predictions raised hopes and
fears in minds which ought to have rejected it with
contempt." What effect Butler's satire upon astro
logy had upon the public is uncertain, but according
to the Doctor, " cheats seldom stand long against
laughter."
Lieutenant Morrison boasts that " the highest and
noblest lady in the land, has honoured him by pe
rusing his Almanack :" as well might a fool plume
himself, that the Queen had honoured him by
laughing at his folly. However, it may be safely
affirmed, that no fears have been raised in her royal
mind, by the predictions of this crafty astrologer;
256 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
and whatever may be his motives for the evil an
nouncements he has made, respecting the early part
of her Majesty's reign, his counsel will not be sought
as to the best means of averting the evil influences
of the stars, and escaping from shadows of his own
creation.
" Science, with thy resistless light
Disperse these phantoms from my sight,
These mimic shades of thee."
In Zadkiel's Almanack for this year, the Lieut.
has the following predictions respecting the Queen :
" Summer and autumn of 1839—much grief to the nation ; dan
ger of illness [italics] to her Majesty, and the loss of a near
relation.
" The winter of 1840—great troubles; changes in the state. .:•
" The autumn of 1841—uar ; also danger to her Majesty's eyes.
" The autumn of 1842—o very fatal period ; perilous to her
Majtsty's health ; danger of consumption ! If the nation be
then at war, much loss and defeat; mutiny will attend the
Queen's fleets, Sfc."
The Lieutenant then proceeds to give some direful
intimations of something " most important early in
the twenty seventh year !"—What such a man de
serves, I leave her Majesty's loving subjects to
determine. In the preface to this Almanack, the
Lieutenant remarks—
" That as itis impossible for two parallel lines ever to diverge,
so is it that the works and the word of God should everdisagree."
ROYAL NATIVITIES. 257
He professes to believe that " the Bible rings with
astrology" and that facts anil predictions combine to
demonstrate its truth. In his observations on my
eighth letter, he called for some modern cases ; and
in his answer to the editor of the Weekly Dispatch,
he appeals to facts—" to the facts in the nativity of
Victoria Queen of England." To these facts I
will presently direct my attention, but shall first pre
sent my readers with the Lieutenant's "final chal
lenge" to myself, as quoted in his preface to " Zad-
kiel's Almanack for 1837:
" Let Mr. M. uame three gentlemen in Cheltenham, I also
will name three (who are opposed to belief in astrology), and let
them meet and procure the time of birth of some individual, the
same being perfectly authenticated ; and also an authentic account
of the leading events ofthatindividual's life, and the agewhen they
occurred. Let the time and place only of birth be furnished me, if
known, positively to within two or threeminutes ; or if not known
to within fiveminutes time eitherway ; let me havealso an account
of three events of importance in the life of that party, and the age
when th y happened. 1 will then produce, at a meeting of these
gentlemen, a written statement of the nature of those events, and
the age at which they occurred, all through the life of that in
dividual."
My reasons for refusing to accept of his challenge
at the time it was given, I have already stated at
page 201. However, as it has since been reiterated
in the Lieutenant's Almanack for 1837, and as my
s
258 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
proposed course of argument against astrology is
now completed, I am disposed to meet the Lieut,
upon ground somewhat similar to that proposed in
the challenge, and certainly upon that which he
has chosen in his Almanack for the present year.
I shall therefore make some remarks upon the nativity
of King William the Fourth, the " Nativity of
Victoria Queen, of England," and upon that of
Queen Adelaide.
In Zadkiel's Almanack for 1837, the Lieutenant
has the following prediction respecting William the
Fourth :
" In July he will be liable to some illness of a feverish nature,
and will bedistressed bythe conduct ofaladyofveryhigh rank, and
be muchurged to warlikeresolutions. IuSeptembek(aboutthetime
ofthe directions) the Kingwill again be exposed to some vexations
by females: yet he will be more popular, and will move about a
great deal, probably take a long journey ; also his health improves.
The 9th of November is fortunatefor his Majesty ; his health be
comes good, Sec."
Not one of these predictions was fulfilled, for his
Majesty died on June 20th, 1837, to the dismay of
the Lieut. and the shame of his deluded adherents.
Here is "a modern case"—one of the Lieutenant's
own selection—one that convicts this lynx-eyed pro
phet of imbecility, if not of something worse, and
proves that facts, if well scrutinised, will make " di
viners mad" (Isaiah xliv, -25). What has this can
ROYAL NATIVITIES. 25t)
ning fortune-teller now to say for himself? In his
letter to the editor of the Cheltenham Journal (June
24th, 1837), he hopes to be permitted to offer " a
few words on the death of the good King ;" and then
adds, " It may be thought that my not having clearly
foretold the sad event* is a failure as regards as
trology." He then proceeds to make some obser
vations on the time of birth : and, if the assertion
may be credited, " one minute and forty seconds,"
threw him out in his predictions ! and yet, in his final
challenge to me, the time is only required to bo
known "within two or three minutes ! !" and
in his Herald of Astrology for 1832 (page 72),
he says—
" Letters mustmention the place and timeofbirthtothe nearest
minute, ifpossible; ifnot known toaquarter of an hour,nothing
can be learned. ! !"
It is remarkable, however, that though the Lieut.
has been in the habit several tears, of furnishing
the public with annual predictions respecting the
destinies of the Royal Family, we find no complaint
that the times of birth of the illustrious individuals
were not accurately given to the public, till accu
mulated facts furnish such a battery against his
fragile edifice, that he fears its destruction, and
endeavours to ward off theirforce, by affirming that his
• See Letter x. page 196 and 197.
260 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
data for prediction were "extremely vague !" Yet in
his "Herald of Astrology," already quoted, he is
so well satisfied with the correctness of all matters
in the nativity of William the Fourth, that he
notices some of the directions as remarkably corres
ponding with the events .
" By reference to my last year's Herald, it will be found at
page 60, 1 gave the direction ofthe * Sun to the trine of the Moon'
[reader notethis] to have effect about the 14thofApril, 1831 ; and
1 considered that its effects would * be favourablefor honours,' &c*
It is in my readers' recollection, that on the22d day of that month
the King became extremely popular, and was highly honoured by
his people for thedecisive step ofdissolving the Parliament. It is a
fact that he did wear his crown on the 22d, and he observed to the
Lord Chancellor that it was his ' coronation day.' The trifling .
ceremony of taking the oathi, &c. in Westminster Abbey, on the
8th of September, very different from former coronations, waspro
duced by the Moon to the parallel of Venus, a secondary direction
ofno great import.uhich I omitted to notice. Any personwho looks
in the Ephemeris for the year of the King's birth, may see that it
occurs 66 days, no hours, and 45 minutes after his birth, which
measures just 66 years and 11 days, or to the first of September,
1831—very eloie indeed to the time of the event !—the exact day
of which can scarcely ever be known."
This is the language of triumph ; and if, at this
time, any one had told the Lieutenant he had not the
correct time of his Majesty's birth, he would have
produced his supposed "fulfilled predictions" to
prove the contrary. And with the same affected
confidence does the Lieut. continue his predictions
respecting the King to 1837. Nor does he give a
ROYAL NATIVITIES. 261
hint of any failure prior to this period! But
when the "royal native" is consigned to the silent
tomb, and yet according to the prediction of Zadkiel
should have been well and travelling about ; then
it is that Lieutenant Morrison tells us that, if he had
taken the time of birth " one minute and forty
seconds earlier," all would have been correct.* I
now ask what such shuffling deserves ? and whether
the man who is thus annually endeavouring to gull
the public, that he may profit by their folly, is a
more honourable character than Charles Paddon,
noticed at page 122 ? But the Lieutenant, beaten
upon this nativity, and his predictions sent to the
four winds by the death of William the Fourth, en
deavours to turn the public mind to another, and now
appeals to the facts in the nativity of " Victoria
Queen of England."t In his " Herald of Astro
logy," for 1832 (page 64), he has the following re
marks upon this nativity :
" In last year's Herald, I said, ' there is a good direction in
June, 1831, which is Sol to the trine of Jupiter. This will (rive
some additionalfriends and honours. The effect of this direction
was felt in a few weeks by her receiving £10,000 a year additional
income."
The Lieutenant continues his predictions to the
year 1837, and after giving a hint of the death of
• See the Preface (page 5) to his Almanack for 1838.
t See al»o page 5, of the An-.anack for the same year.
262 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
her royal mother, who, in defiance of astrology, still
lives (and may she long live), has the following ob
servation respecting the " Princess Victoria" :
" These oppositions of the Sun to Herschel falling near the
second bouse, will cause much loss and vexation about pecuniary
matters ; and 1 judge that the native will be refused something
of the additional settlement she may expect on coming of age :
the Government or House of Commons appear to oppose her
wishes. • • • • • The square of Mars about the 19th of
July, may pass without much mischief; yet that period will be
remarkable, and I fear notfortunate."
Now, in opposition to all these predictions,QtXEEN
Victoria was proclaimed in the metropolis with the
usual ceremonies, on the 22d of June, 1837. This
was an event wholly unforeseen by this naval
prophet, and he evidently feels that it has placed him
and astrology in an awkward situation. But astro
logy is sometimes profitable to a noted professor ;
and in such a case will not hastily be given up ; the
Lieutenant therefore endeavours to brazen all out by
intimating that the time of birth was not correctly
stated in the "official bulletin." But even if the
time pieces of the royal family be not generally
well manufactured, and the exact time of birth
of a royal infant be not so accurately noticed as it
should be, and that the official bulletins be carelessly
written !—surely the death of herfather, when the
Princess Victoria was but eight months old, was an
ROYAL NATIVITIES. 203
event of sufficient importance, to enable the Lieut.
upon the principles of astrology, to rectify the time.
But the truth is, the Lieutenant appeared to be well
satisfied with all circumstances from 1831 to 1837;
and it is not until 1838 that we find him cavilling
at the correctness of the official bulletin !* It is
clear that this astrologer foresaw not the accession
of the Princess Victoria to the regal dignity this
year, and the various and extended changes con
nected with so important an event ; and yet he has
the audacity to appeal to this very nativity for the
truth of an art, which is crushed to atoms by the de
cisive facts it furnishes against astrology.
Where will this vain pretender next attempt to
seek a refuge from the scorn and derision of mankind?
• Mr. Smith, an acquaintance of Lieutenant Morrison, has
lately published a pamphlet entitled " The Nativity of her most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria." At p. 3, he says, " I have
selected thenativity of hermostGracious Majesty Queen Victoria,
as one of the most accurate data on which an illustration of the
sciencecould be given."—And at p.4, "The nativity of this illus
trious personage, from the accuracy of its date, appeared to be
the bestI could select formy purpose, thecircumstances ofwhich,
being prospective, will give something of a tangible character to
grapple with, which, in general estimation, is the most direct way
to thepromulgation oftruth."—However, Lieut.Morrison, in bis
challenge to me, proposed to grapple only with the past; but,
for further observations on this pamphlet, see the Introduction to
this work.
2G4 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
If to the nativity of Adelaide Queen Dowager—
here too astrology has received a mortal wound.
In hi3 "Herald of Astrology for 1832," he has
given this nativity, and pronounces the time of birth
to be peculiarly fortunate :
" Here are no squares or other evil aspects, but all is conclu
sive of good fortune : the only drawback, is that Mercury is in
semi-square to Mars, and in semi-quadrate to Saturn, and thus
partaking of the nature of those evil planets, and being in the fifth
house, or house of children, he destroyed all the native's issue.
How this "singularly fortunate" nativity is to be
reconciled with the early widowhood of Queen Ade
laide, I leave the Lieutenant to settle.
Here are three nativities decisive against astrology
—nativities which the Lieutenant himself has selected
to establish the truth of stellar influence. He knew
not that William the Fourth would die on the 20th
of June, 1827; he knew not that the Princess Vic
toria on the 22d of June, would be proclaimed Queen
of England ; he knew notthat Queen Adelaide, would
at this time become Adelaide the Queen Dowager ;
though he had the three nativities before him, and the
stars and planets to guide his judgment : and notwith
standing these notorious facts against astrology,this
knight errant of Lady Luna, has had the audacity
in his Almanack for 1838, to give the nativity of her
most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria, as an
ROYAL NATIVITIES. 265
evidence of the truth of astrology. Bold and as
suming as astrologers are known to be, the Lieut,
surpasses them all in the essential qualities of an as
trological fortuneteller; for a more impudent and
barefaced attempt to impose on public credulity
could scarcely be made. The great events which
took place in 1837, were not even hinted at by this
celestial prophet ; but others in direct opposition to
them, were confidently predicted ; and in the face
of these wretched failures, the Lieutenant commences
his Almanack for 1838, with the following assertion :
" The cause of truth is realizing my utmost hopes. Astrology
is righting itself (to use a nautical phrase) after the storm of ig
norance which had kept it down for two centuries."
Are we to understand from this, that the torpid
serpent has recovered a little life and vigour, from
being cherished in the bosom of honest Zndkiel ?
Some powerful efforts have indeed been recently
made to poison the public mind, but I hope that the
cause of common sense is " righting itself and that
all astrological cheats, as soon as discovered, will be
sent to consider the revolutions of the treadwheel,
instead of those of the heavenly bodies.
For some years, Lieutenant Morrison has pre
tended to foretel the political and ecclesiastical mu
tations in the British empire, and even to a degree of
266 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
minuteness, unattempted by any former professor.
But as the orbs of heaven afforded him no data to
predict the three great events which have just been
considered ; he was, therefore, unacqnainted with
the various circumstances of the political world which
grew out of them. Three royal nativities calculated
by himself, have been published to prove the truth
of astrology : and the accuracy of the time of birth
of Queen Adelaide, has not been once questioned by
the Lieutenant. Now if astrology were true, and he
had mastered its mysteries, this nativity well-con
sidered, would have informed him not only of the
death of King William the Fourth, but also, of all
the other important events connected with such a
circumstance ; and if any other proof were needed
of the vanity and folly of astrology than that which
is derived from the Holy Scriptures, such a proof
is furnished by Lieutenant Morrison himself in
his Zadkiel's Almanack for 1837.
APPENDIX.
Note I .Page 4.
The Egyptians worshipped a great number of animals,
as the ox, the dog, the wolf, the hawk, the ibis, the cat,
&c. Of all these, the bull Apis was the most famous.
Magnificent temples were erected to him; extraordinary
honours were paid him while he lived, and still greater
after his death ; Egypt went then into a general mourning.
His obsequies were solemnized with such pomp as is
scarcely credible. In the reign of Ptolemy Lagus, the
bull Apis dying of old age, the funeral pomp, besides the
ordinary expenses, amounted to upwards of 11,250/.
sterling. Even leeks, onions, and vile insects, were ac
knowledged as deities, and were invoked in necessity,
and depended upon for protection."—Rollin's Ancient
History, vol. i.
" Among the Greeks, ants were used in divination,
and generally foretold good; bees were accounted an
omen of future eloquence ; locusts, snakes, and serpents,
268 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
were ominous. All marks upon the body, and spots
resembling oil were omens of various signification.
Sneezing too, according to the time of day, and other
circumstances, was either lucky or unlucky. The un
expected meeting of an ape, a snake lying in the way,
or a. hare crossing the road, were unfortunate omens.
The throwing down of salt, the spilling of water, wine,
or honey, and various other accidents were deemed
ominous."—Harward's Grecian Antiquities.
" The Romans also took omens from sneezing, the
spilling of salt, and quadrupeds crossing the way, or ap
pearing in an unaccustomed place. Caesar, in landing at
Adrumetum, in Africa, with his army, happened to fall
on his face, which was reckoned a bad omen ; but he,
with great presence of mind, turned it to the contrary :
for, taking hold of the ground with his right hand, and
kissing it, as if he had fallen on purpose, he exclaimed
' I take possession of thee O Africa.' "—Adam's Roman
Antiquities.
" The Greeks, Romans, and Indians, believed that
over every movement in the natural world, and over
every function in civil or domestic life, even the most
common and trivial, a particular deity presided."—Ro
bertson on Ancient India.
II Page 6.
In Zadkiel's Almanack for 1837, the Lieutenant, in
his notice of the total eclipse of the Moon in that year,
says, " In Ireland this eclipse will bring grief, sickness,
and a sad want of provisions ; a failing harvest, by means
of rain and floods, moving bogs, &c. This eclipse will
be felt in Ireland, from the 4th of May all through the
summer. It will cause something serious in Ireland, and
also in France, about the New Moon in May. In both
APPENDIX. 269
those countries many quarrels with their leading men,
and the people ; also great quarrels among themselves.
A destructive epidemic may be feared, and sickness among
the cattle in Ireland, &c. Much bloodshed and murder
while the Sun is passing through Taurus and Leo, &c."
Fontenelle, in his " Plurality of Worlds," has the
following remarks upon eclipses :—" Throughout the
East Indies, when the Sun and Moon are eclipsed, the
inhabitants believe that a great dragon, with his black
claws, is going to seize those luminaries ; and all the time
the eclipse lasts, you may see whole rivers covered with
the heads of these Indians, who have put themselves up
to the throat in water, because, according to their notions,
this is a very religious act, and will induce the Sun or
Moon to defend itself bravely against the dragon. In
America, it was thought that the Sun and Moon were
angry when they were eclipsed, and every kind of ab
surdity was practised to regain their favour. The
Grecians, too, who had arrived at such a height of re
finement, did they not for a long time believe that the
Moon was eclipsed by the power of sorcery ; and that
the magicians caused her to descend from the skies, and
cast a baneful influence on the herbs ? And were not we,
likewise, in great alarm but two and thirty years ago,
[1654] at a total eclipse of the Sun ? Did not an im
mense number of people shut themselves up in caves
and cellars ; and were they easily persuaded to leave
them bythe philosophers, who wrote so much to reassure
them ? Really, replied the Marchioness, all this is too
ridiculous. There ought to be a decree passed to pre
vent any body from ever talking of eclipses, lest the
memory ofsuch follies should be perpetuated." Are the
Lieutenant's notions more rational than those just quoted?
In his Horoscope (page 51), he informs us that " Earth.
270 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
quakes follow close on the heels of eclipses" ; and also
" Earthquakes may always be expected near the peri
helion of great comets" I
III Page 15.
Cicero says of Demosthenes, that " He could not
pronounce the letter p (rhd), but by exercise he caused
himself to pronounce it very plainly. But if those
things were produced and handed down from the stars
[astro ingenerataet tradita essenf], no circumstance could
change them."
IV._Page 17.
It is remarkable that Dryden was a believer in ju>-
dicial astrology. He calculated the nativities of his sons,
and his prediction respecting his son Charles is said to
have been accomplished.
V—Page 23.
In the Horoscope (page 55), an answer is attempted
to be given to the objection against astrology, as derived
from the precession of the equinoxes. The Lieutenant
there says " Ptolemy did not declare, nor does any sub
sequent astrologer declare, that it was the constellations
which create the signs of the zodiac." But I reply, that
there are twelve signs of the ecliptic, and twelve constel
lations of the ecliptic ; and that the signs have the same
names as the constellations : it is, therefore, certain that
the connexion between them was anciently recognised.
VI.—Page 27.
It was my original intention to give the Letters of
Lieutenant Morrison in the Appendix, but as every thing
APPENDIX. 271
in the shape of argument advanced by him is fairly quoted,
and as their insertion would have materially increased the
bulk and price of the book, they are omitted. If the
Lieutenant should think that their publication will reflect
honour on himselfand his cause, the press is open to him ;
and, as his pecuniary resources are far beyond mine, he
can better afford to defray the expense of their publication.
VII.—Page 29.
" A voice for this world"—This is proved from the
different works on astrology. However, it is admitted
that some professors have gone a little farther. It has
been affirmed that " He who hath Saturn happily con
stituted with Leo at his nativity, shall, when he departs
this life, immediately return to heaven"; and that " Any
person happily placed under Mars, being in the ninth,
shall be able to cast out devils by his presence only."
VIII Page 38.
" All nations before the just length of the solar year
was known, reckoned months by the course of the Moon;
and years by the returns of winter and summer, spring
and autumn; and, in making calendars for their festivals,
they reckoned thirty days to a lunar month, and twelve
lunar months to a year, taking the nearest round num
bers ; whence came the division of the ecliptic into 360
degrees."—Chronicle of the Greeks by Sir I. Newton.
IX Page 46.
Cicero says, " I enquire whether all who fell at the
battle of Cannoe were born under one star ? The end,
indeed, ofall of them was one and the same." To thiswe
may add, that the troops of iEmylius and Terentius Varro
fought under the same aspects as those of Hannibal.
272 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
X Page 59.
" Beware."—The Rev. John Brown, in his Dic
tionary ofthe Holy Bible, says, " Perhaps Satan rendered
the persons he possessed worse at those times [the new
and full Moon], that the Moon might be reckoned the
cause of the malady."—Article, Lunatic.
" As to the popular notion of the Moon's influence
on the state of the weather, it is now affirmed, by the
most scientific inquirers, to have " no foundation in
theory, and no correspondence with observed facts."
—" In the years 1774 and 1775, Dr. Horsley directed
his attention to this question, and published two papers
in the Philosophical Transactions, with a view to dispel
the popular prejudice on the subject of lunar influences.
He found that, in 1774, there were only two changes of
weather which corresponded with the new Moon, and
none with the full Moon ; and that in the year 1775,
there were only four changes which corresponded with
the new Moon, and three with the full Moon."—See No.
1, of the Monthly Chronicle.
To this I may add that, Mr. Samuel Moss, the gen
tleman who has regularly furnished the Cheltenham Chro
nicle with a meteorological report of the weather for the
last ten years, has given it as his decided opinion that the
lunar phases have no influence on the weather; or if any,
it is too small to be appreciable.
XI Page 67.
" A shepherd boy, some years ago, in Scotland, was
present at the parochial catechising, and was asked, ' Who
tempted our first parents to sin ?' His answer was ' The
De'il, sir.' Then came the question, ' How did the \
Devil learn to sin ?' He had never thought of this be
fore, and for a time was somewhat nonplussed, but though
APPENDIX. 273
conscious of ignorance, did not like to plead it. At length
he said, with great appearance of triumph, ' I have it noo !
The De'il must have taken up sinning as my brother
Jock did the tailor trade—at his ain hand, and no' by
learning frae anither.' This is the substance of all that
has been written on the origin of evil ; the whole ' Iliad'
of the question 'in a nutshell'."—See Anecdotes pub
lished by the Religious Tract Society, page 155.
XII Page 75.
Stellarius observes (Hor. page 72), "That the times
of obtaining or losing employment, may be easily ascer
tained ; and questions respecting honour, promotion, ruin,
or disgrace, are answered much in the same manner.
And whether these things be seen from a nativity or
horary figure is immaterial ; for, whatever is promised or
threatened by the former, is sure to be shewn by the
latter, especially if near its fulfilment." O admirable ad
justment of stellar combinations to provide for the varying
fortunes of cats, dogs, &c.
XIII Page 77.
Lieutenant Morrison, in the Horoscope (page 53),
has predicted his astrological immortality :—" As the
world may be curious, some centuries hence, to know the
kind of arguments brought against the science in the
nineteenth century, we here present our readers with
the following choice morceau from the Liverpool Mer
cury, &c. In thus reprinting his poetry, we do the editor
of the Mercury some service, as we hand down his name
to posterity. We happen to know that our writings on
astrology will be sought for hundreds of years beyond
the day when the writer of this doggrelwill be forgotten !"
T
274 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
XIII.*—Page 82.
Lilly also (p. 163) says, " The messenger attached to
my person, said I was his prisoner. As he was carrying
me away, he was called to bring me again. Oliver Crom
well, Lieutenant General of the Army, having never seen
me, caused me to be produced again, when he steadfastly
beheld me for a good space, and then I went with the
messenger, &c." Oliver Cromwell afterward assisted in
procuring his liberation.
XIV.—Page 111.
" Kepler actually and literally professed to believe
that the earth was an enormous living animal. He says
' If any one who has climbed the peaks of the highest
mountains, throw a stone down their very deep clefts, a
sound is heard from them ; or, if he throw it into one of
the mountain lakes, which beyond doubt are bottomless,
a storm will immediately arise, just as when you thrust a
straw into the ear or nose of a ticklish animal, it shakes
its head, or runs shuddering away. What so like breathing,
especially of those fishes who draw water into their
mouths and spout it out again through their gills, as that
wonderful tide I For although it is so regulated according
to the course of the Moon, that, in the Preface to my
Commentaries on Mars, I have mentioned it as probable
that the waters are attracted by the Moon as iron is by
the loadstone ; yet, if any one uphold that the earth re
gulates its breathing according to the motion of the Sun
and Moon, as animals have daily and nightly alternations
of sleeping and waking, I shall not think his philosophy
unworthy of being listened to ; especially if any flexible
parts should be discovered in the depths of the earth to
APPENDIX. 275
supply the function of lungs or gills I' Kepler's general
sentiments on astrology are evidently in some respects
contradictory. In a work now lodged in the British
Museum, he has treated the professed astrologers with
great severity. He there says, 'If the vulgar are to pro
nounce who is the best astrologer, my reputation is known
to be ofthe highest order ; if they prefer the judgment of
the learned, they are already condemned. Whether they
stand with me in the eyes of the populace, or I fall with
them before the learned ; in both cases I am in their ranks ;
lam on a level with them; I cannot be renounced.' That
Kepler was well acquainted with the principles of astro
logy, none will dispute ; that he believed the heavens had
some influence on the air, and the physical form of man,
is also acknowledged ; but, after having given his senti
ments upon this matter, he adds, ' I do not wish this
single instance to be taken as a defence or proof of all
the aphorisms of astrologers, nor do I attribute to the
heavens the government of human affairs : what a vast
difference still separates these philosophical observations
from that Jolly, or madness, as it should rather be called.'
Kepler must have written this from positive experience
of its folly, as it is certain that at one period of his life
he calculated nativities. It appears that Kepler's salary,
as mathematician to the Emperor, was not regularly paid ;
and that, to relieve his necessities, he was obliged to pub
lish an almanack, and of this he complains :—' In order to
to pay the expense of the Ephemeris for these two years,
I have also written a vile prophesying almanack, which
is scarcely more respectable than begging ; unless it be
because it saves the Emperor's credit, who abandons me
entirely; and, with all his frequent and recent orders in
council, would leave me to perish with hunger.'"—Life
of Kepler, page 38.
276 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
XV.—Page 121.
We are presented, at page 56 of the Horoscope, with
an account of an earthquake, which happened in South
America, on the 20th of January, 1834;—" The city of
Pasto and a number of other places were destroyed.
The city of Papayan, consisting of 3000 persons, was
also destroyed by the same visitation, which commenced
at 7 o'clock a.m. and lasted four hours." The planets'
places for the time are then given, and are affirmed to be
" quite consistent" with the rules of astrology. Here
evil aspects, presiding at the very period of death, are
said to be in harmony with the rules of astrology.
XVI Page 122.
Cicero, in his Treatise of Divination, says, " For as
to what they [the astrologers] say, that the Babylonians
spent 475,000 years in observations on boys who were
born during that period, they deceive us, &c." The
Lieut. himself, in answer to an article in the Penny Ma
gazine, observes, " The constant observations of fifty six
generations of men, taking thirty three years to each,
since the Christian era, may be put in the scale against
the ' temperament' of this writer, whose nonsense will
then kick the beam."—Horoscope, page 87.
XVII Page 135.
In Zadkiel's Almanack for 1837, the Lieut. has the
following remarks:—"The reader of the former numbers
of this work, will have remarked a comparativefalling off
in the degree of correctness of my atmospherical predic
tions, in the past year, on some particular occasions. This
has been occasioned by a phenomenon ofwhich I had pre
viously no experience ; I mean the three superior planets,
APPENDIX. 277
Herschel. Saturn, and Jupiter, all being in trine aspect
at the same period, which occurs only in the course of
many years. This mutual trine aspect, endured from
January until May, and the effect of the joint influence
of Herschel and Saturn (both of them being of a cold
nature) was to diminish the warm or rather temperate
nature of Jupiter ; and thence, when the Sun formed
aspects with him, that mild state of the atmosphere which
I had predicted did not occur." The Lieutenant after
ward tells us that he believes that Herschel " produces
nearly as much cold as Saturn." But before he penned
this apology for the inaccuracy of his predictions, he
should have remembered that he had previously in the
Horoscope (p. 38) affirmed the power of Herschel to be
"far inferior" to that of any other planet, and that the
errors of the old astrologers, arising from their ignorance
of his existence, "would neither be veryfrequent nor very
extensive,"—and it may also be remarked that the Lieut.
has for some years been noticing the aspects of Herschel
in his predictions ; but as it is particularly the trine aspect
of this planet which is now under consideration, I will
refer to the Horoscope (p. 47), where he lays down some
"general rules for predicting the weather":—"It may be
considered as a general principle that the Sun should be
observed in the first place, whenever we desire to foresee
the nature of the weather. Whatever planet the Sun is
in conjunction, or zodiacal parallel, with, it will cause the
weather to be of its nature at that time. The most
powerful aspect next to a conjunction, is the opposition
aspect,if it be one of the evilplanets [Herschelis considered
to be one of them] ; and then the square, then the ses-
quiquadrate, and last the trine and sextils."—From the
law of influence here laid down, we should suppose that
the trine of Herschel could have little effect upon the
278 REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
general state of the weather, particularly as his general
power is "par inferior" to that of any other planet
The Lieutenant being evidently somewhat abashed at his
tremendous failures in this Almanack (1837), declines,
for the future, predicting the daily changes of the weather ;
and these distracting influences of Herschel and Saturn
having so bewildered him—so agitated his pericranium—
he is determined not to give them so much honour as
heretofore in framing his predictions. He says, "It may
be better, therefore, that instead of a daily prediction of
the weather, I should confine myself to a judgment of the
influence produced at each aspect formed by the Moon
with the Sun (12 in each month), for although minor
effects [O the poor planets] be produced by the duihj
aspects of the Moon with the planets, the more general
and extended effects arise from the simultaneous action of
the planets on both Sun and Moon, when these are in
mutual aspect."—The Lieutenant assigns two reasons for
this alteration, viz: "the present state of atmospherical
astrology" and the weight of prejudice against it. O
where are his former vauntings ?—Left in the Horoscope,
at page 72, where he says, " Our prediction regarding the
height of the thermometer on the 15th, as compared with
its height on the 2nd, was again perfectly correct. We
promised, at page 54, that it would not reach 82 degrees
on the 15th in London, as it did not on the 2nd ; and
though thirteen days later in the summer, it was, in fact,
eight degrees lower in London, and six degrees lower in
Liverpool, on the 15th, than on the 2nd."—The Lieut.
then challenges the Meteorological Society to do anything
like this. " Rut O, how are the mighty now fallen I"—
The Lieutenant boasted (Ho. p. 54) that he was the first
writer who had ever attempted daily predictions of the
weather ; but by the force of facts against him, he is
APPENDIX. 279
now compelled, in his predictions, to take a wider range,
that his errors may be less easily detected. Mr. Murphy
too, in his " Weather Almanack," frequently attempts to
foretel the course of the wind ; but I pronounce all such
attempts vain and impious ; for facts prove their vanity,
and the Bible, their impiety—see John iii. 8. Seeing,
therefore, that the changes in the atmosphere which pro
duce wind, are connected with causes which must for ever
elude the scrutiny of man, we hope that all weatherpro
phets will be contemned by every person who calls him
self a Christian.
XVIII Page 200.
The Lieutenant, at page 37 of the Horoscope, gives
the planets' places at the supposed time when Philippi,
in Romania, with 70,000 souls, was swallowed up ; and
tells us, that Turkey in general is under the sign Virgo ;
but at page 20, the city of Paris is said to be ruled by
Virgo; and, at page 71 of his Herald of Astrology, for
1832, we are told that Switzerland is ruled by Virgo.
However, till the Lieutenant can give the public some
satisfactory information respecting the known and natural
connexion of the heavens with the different places on our
globe, all his predictions respecting them should be utterly
despised, as unworthy of the attention of a rational being :
for, if no data for prediction can be found, it is certain
that nothing can be predicted.
ERRATA.
Page xxxii. line 5for " provided a for" read " provided for"
136 10 — "did not" — "it did not"
173 4 — "pillar" " pillars"
179 14 - " that that" " that the"
267 8 - " went then" " then went"
. 268 9 - " Harward's" " Harwood's"
— 270 24 — " and that" " and as"
270 25 — "constellation! :" " constellations,'
T. BAWUNOS,
P1TTVILLE STREET, CHELTENHAM.
