{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__cooper___to_the_general_episcopal_synod.pdf","mytitle":"To The General Episcopal Synod","mylang":"de"}
I
II
[:ji
5
The Liberal Catholic Church
P r o v in c ia l H e a d q u a r t e r s : 2041 Argy'e Avenue, Los Angeles, California
R e s id e n c e : B ox 647, Ojai, California
March 16, 1934.
TO THE GENERAL EPISCOPAL SYNOD:
Ever since my recovery of health and return to active service early in June
of last year, I have studied repeatedly and carefully the past, present and pos­
sible future oi tue Liberal Catholic Church. This letter is intended to share
with you the conclusions I have reached and the plans I have in mind regard­
ing that future. It is sent ro you for corn r-nt, criticism, and if found genu­
inely constructive, for action.
The first draft of this letter, addressed to the Presiding Bishop and the
General Episcopal Synod, was finished oq 23rd February. When the news
came of the death of Bishop Leadbeater on 1st March, and I realized that the
wise counsel of our Presiding Bishop on which I had counted so much was
no longer available physically, I though ■over the whole situation for several
■
y I”
' came to the conclusion that there was no valid reason for v,. hhold-
ing the Liter. I could not see that the situation regarding the Church had
N. an changed in the slightest and the man :rs touche■
] upon in the letter were
just s urgent. Accordingly, with- some necessary changes and some additions
caused 1v
would have sent
further thought, this letter that I
‘o the Presidios
n sending you is the one that I
I lu
f: la r*lv
dition-; vhVh I
f the Ur
■un personally
, i I t-
I have had chiefly in
o.se p.
\ r '. r ■
■ ■
• . . ... i
. > *
■ . ' 1 ' O ' J i . j . . . . . . . .
mces of the Church. Furthermore the social backgrcc
' I Ir. -I -, A — , . 1 ,
t ' . .1
.1
c: \ \ '■
■ r,.
to your r. strive cor s . . y V -, . 1
dons to i.ationalY. re ode, bu t),
die ideas I shall ...t forth ; ; h>able to this Province only, or aie \ nthy of
adoption by the (.hutch throughout the world.
The early years of our Church, from the Line of its founding until about
192N were maneed by great enthusiasm, vigorous eternal growth, rapid
I
the
must d • <1er
ex-
pansion. Churches and Missions sprang up in many countries on five conti­
nents, members poured in, ordinations to the Priesthood were frequent, the
Liturgy was prepared, translated and printed in several languages, several
Church magazines were founded, The Science oj the Sacraments and The
Hidden Side oj Christian Festivals appeared and were widely read. This ex­
traordinary growth must be ascribed, not to the inherent appeal of our Church
to the world at large, but primarily to the fact that early in its development
several prominent leaders in the Theosophical Society, men of exceptional
ability, became tremendously interested in the spiritual power of the sacra­
mental services and the immense possibilities of human betterment offered
by the Church. Their enthusiasm spread to many other members of the Theo­
sophical Society and, although there has never been, as we know, the least
organic connection between the two organizations, the presence in the Church
membership of some thousands, and in the ranks of the Clergy of some hun­
dreds, of people who were devoted to theosophical ideas and ideals, has led
inevitably to a strong infusion in the literature and teachings of the Church
of the finest and most inspiring of the ethical teachings and philosophical
viewpoints of Theosophy.
There is nothing to regret or conceal in this. Our Church owes to The­
osophy a magnificent tolerance which is rare in Christendom, a genuine ap­
preciation of the worth and spiritual value of every other Church and Religion.
It is indebted to Theosophy for a sound and reasonable philosophical back­
ground, which is refreshingly different from the majestic, but artificial and
wholly unreal structure of the greater part of Christian theology. In the liber­
ty of thought permitted to its members and to the Clergy, in the absence of
creedal requirements for membership, in the complete banishment of all ex­
pressions of fear and cringing from Liturgy and Hymnbook, tribute must be
given to the inspiration of Theosophy. In the superb conception of God as
the Life of the Universe in contrast to the tribal deity so often pictured in
Christian worship and preaching, Theosophy had its influence. Yet at the
same time it must be admitted that the Church has suffered from even this
association of the two organizations. In the world at large there are violent
prejudices, many misconceptions regarding Theosophy and the Theosophical
Society. We have shared in the abuse directed at the other organization, and
no doubt will suffer in the future. Still I believe that what the Church gained
in the way of an enlightened outlook was worth the price. Nevertheless in
the years to come it is the part of common sense to keep the two organizations
apart. Each has its work to do in the world and nothing will be gained by
mingling the two, either physically, or in the mind of the public.
This first period in the development of our Church was a time of founda­
tion building. Hopes ran high and the future v.as rosy with promise. Many
felt that the Liberal Catholic Church with its incomparable Liturgy, its unique
combination of the powerful sacramental form of worship with the fullest
measure of intellectual liberty, would sweep tire tvorld and profoundly influ­
ence Christian thought.
Then the wind of doctrine began to veer, at first faintly and at intervals,
then directly and with power. The result was to be expected. Hundreds of
members, having enthusiastically joined the Church some years before upon
the suggestion of one revered leader, now adopted the ideas of another leader
2
with equal enthusiasm and left the Church. The Church, as Church, apparent­
ly meant little to them. Their eyes were fixed on another goal, at first that of
service leading to discipleship, then that of inaction leading to liberation. I
do not now regret that exodus, although at the time I felt it keenly, nor do I
< in any way blame our members for leaving. Rather, the question has occurred
again and again to me: "What was so lacking in our Church that it could not
hold these people once they had joined?’'
Following the exodus there came a period best characterized as that of
consolidation. Those that remained in the Church were there because they
wanted to be there, because the services of the Church gave them what they
most desired. The growth during this period was small compared to that of
earlier years, but it was solid. I believe the condition of the Church to-day is
far more stable and capable of permanent expansion than during the preced­
ing era of enthusiastic inflation.
A few months ago I began to notice in the services and among the mem­
bers what best may be described as a stirring of the life currents of the
Church. This has steadily increased until at the present time here at St. Al­
ban s Pro-Cathedral in Los Angeles, and, judging from reports, elsewhere in
the Province, a veritable torrent of spiritual power is sweeping through the
services of the Church. Continually the impression has grown stronger in me
that we are now entering upon a new period in our history, one apparently of
worth-while achievement and healthy growth, a time wherein we shall begin
the building of that structure for which during the past years we have been
laying the foundations. Great events seem "just around the corner.”
In order to gain some idea of the nature of the coming structure I have
tried on numerous occasions to form an honest, uncoloured estimate of what
we have so far accomplished, and then with that as a basis to see the probable
lines of future development. The Church means so much to me personally,
that I confess I found it quite difficult to stand, as it were, outside the move­
ment and survey it from a distance. Because of this it is likely that the picture
I shall endeavour to draw is distorted, and no doubt many of you will not see
eye to eye with me, but perhaps my efforts, because they are sincere and very
much in earnest, may give birth to constructive thoughts with which you can
correct my own.
During the last ten years it has forced itself ru tedly upon my atten­
tion that while the Liberal Catholic Church is function ng quite vigorously as
a small, independent body, it is not remarkably successful in improving.the
^iv-f5--2iiîsJR^Qke
L§> ?nd„js not, to any noticeable extent, influencing the re-
ligtous thought of our_.time. Yet we were given an. exceptional opportunity
r° u° kig things. Being a young Church, although a branch of the ancient
trunk, and absolutely free from all affiliations with any other Church, we were
not hampered by the rigidities and conventions of the hier Cor . .uni is.
‘
.7hcn, ’■the time of our organization, every traditional shackle was struck
away, leaving us equipped with all that was best, most lovely, and most in­
spiring in the Catholic form of worship, but without the handicap of the old
repressions, ancient fears and theological nightmares, we should have leaped
forward to great adventures in the world of religion. But we did not. We
were content to remain rather a pale copy of existing Churches. It is not.too
Jam . take u.p,the life of adventure. We still are free from hampering tradi-
3
dons. A world of immense opportunity still awaits our labours. Let us see
what we have so far achieved, in order to determine whether we might do
more, far more, in the years which lie ahead.
All of us in the Episcopal Synod have definite knowledge, I believe, that
the Sacraments are not mere ceremonials, symbols, commemorations, but are
channels of a spiritual power, which we have felt strongly, again and again,
not only at the Celebration of the Eucharist at the altar, but in the exercise of
our officej especially when ordaining. Because of that vivid personal experi­
ence we value the Eucharist, not so much as an act of common worship, how­
ever beautiful and uplifting that may be as a ceremony, but as the greatest
means at our command to aid the world spiritually and to make real to our
people the actuality of the spiritual. The total number of eucharistie Celebra­
tions in Christendom has been increased possibly some 300 to 400 each week,
because of the existence of our Church. This increase, while it has undoubt­
edly augmented the total volume of released spiritual power, is almost neg­
ligible, I should think, when we take into consideration the hundreds of
thousands of eucharistie Celebrations which take place weekly in the sanctu­
aries of the Roman and Old Catholic, the Anglican and Episcopal, the Holy
Orthodox and other Eastern, Communions. Does this relatively small acces­
sion of spiritual influence justify the labour, thought and expense inevitable in
maintaining a separate movement such as ours? If this increase is the chièf
reason for our continued existence, would it not be wiser to work with and
in existing Churches, already established, financed and staffed?
Because the Liberal Catholic Church exists, some scores of sermons are
preached each Sunday in addition to- the many thousands of sermons which
are addressed to the faithful in the other Churches of Christendom. The ser­
mons at our services are liberal in tone, but not more so, I believe, than in
other liberal Churches. Sometimes, because the preacher is more familiar with :
theosophical doctrines than with the history and thought of Christianity, the
sermons are rather weak in presenting ideas in a way most helpful to Christian
pcopie. I,liayeJteard_ofjases i n ^ hich-beatildered Christ;^ peapL?. seeking
r;'igious epjjghtenment-and, guidance^, have strayed into one jof-our-seryiffs
3ÛÇ -'^aed-to the sermon, only to depaiLmare confused,than ever,,QL.pgiaed
2.?.'j. ' jigOaSL. The. cansesjoLthe-difficuity for the most paît termed to lie in
selection of sermon material ancHacTyof sympathetic understanding of
the viewpoint anTfeelings ofThose"'brought up algpp„»--dirinnal.lines- Also
our preachers, because so few of"tbem have received any Seminary training
whatsoever, are frequently unable, despite their earnestness, either to construct
or deliver a forceful, useful sermon. Tire sermon may be informative but gen­
erally with thoughts and ideals extracted from theosophical books. Such ser­
mons consist primarily of memorized statements; they are essentially compila­
tions, not woven of threads drawn from the prismatic skein of human life by
the ^preacher himself. They seldom deal ymh rhp 1
1rgCQI*JC
problems of our own time, but are reminiscent of the problems confronting
the world at the time the theosophical books studied were written. If the
a£-HI£.cT'..P
f. the foregoing is conccdedTwe are obliged to iydmit that theTavêr-
-
aR
Ç
-A
eftnpn in a Liberal Catholic Church is nojjt..moulding, directive. force in
Christian thought? This doeTnot apply, of course, to all our Clergy. Some of
preachers are talented and their sermons unusually- fine. But, judging
4
our
from the comments which from time to time have come to me from the laity,
what I have just written does apply to the majority of our preachers. Yet they
are not to blame. Without the training considered essential in the best of the
older Churches—training which we can not give because of lack of funds to
establish Seminaries—our Clergy are doing a remarkably good piece of work,
which compares not unfavourably with that of other Churches. Nevertheless,
taking all this into consideration, it does not seem evident that for the sake
of continuing with Liberal Catholic sermons we should go to the expense and
labour of carrying on the work of our Church. At far less cost and effort these
sermons could be delivered as lectures in halls before larger audiences and
probably with greater influence upon public thinking.
Among other things which we did in our self-sacrificing enthusiasm was
to start Mission after Mission, sometimes at considerable expense, effort, pri­
vation to ourselves, only to see the work fail for lack of public, interest and
supppxt. Houses and other property have occasionally been boughppartîÿ
paid for, lost by foreclosure. Halls or rooms have been rented, furnished as
chapels, eventually given up after a stmggle against financial odds. Clergy1
have been ordained, supplied .with expensive altar accessories and vestments, 1
started on their career as Priests. After a few years, or even months, having
either lost interest, or become discouraged because of public apathy, they have1 1
withdrawn from active service. If our Church is to advance, some wav must-
be found to overcome the apathetic indifference of the people in whose midst
we are. It is not particularly sensible to mark time, hoping that a change for 1
the better in the public attitude will take place in the future. That change will
not fake-place by itself, it can be brought about only by our own efforts, by
achieving something which not-only arouses public interest but awakens pub­
lic approval.1- Support and: financial assistance will come forward quickly
enough’when wè make it clearly evident that we have something worthy of
support. We must hot forget that people have grown tired of supporting a
Church n^erelvbecause it is a.Church. It must earn the money that is .given,
it mustwin the aTFegiance of altruistic people bTwKarTTtfc^^
is. An hour or two of worship on a Sunday, a sermon of indifferent quality
âïïcl convincingness, a midweek evening meeting of some sort, do not justify
the expenditure of the large surfis of money needed to build an adequate
Church structure. The money could be much better spent in otherCvays. But
if such a structure could bë in use day and night for seven days a week, if it
were devoted to the betterment of the community and not to the glorification
of an organization, then the money would be well spent. All this must be
taken into consideration in our plans for the future.
jfeftrojdte...foxegg^ I rc,iP.n.qtescape
palatable conclusion that theJaber^Cathplic Church, ub to.the present time.
has not qeoaongrated ch it fulfills any special, indispeftsible function in 'he
wor]dv It certainly has not influenced the currents of Christian thought to any
appreciable extent, nor is there any indication that it will become more influ­
ential in the future, if it remains exactly as it is to-day. In the existing social,
moral, economic and political chaos, its vision has not been clearer than that
of other Churches, its voice not more decisive. In fact, in these urgent mat­
ters, its voice for the most part has not been heard at all. ^n.cL.for some
reason, which T..cannot fathom. the...very heart of. its..iy.QrsbIp.,.theJSudtarist
5
with all its..spiritual.,power and_con£Q
latiqn. seems unable to attract and hnlf)
imkss it is supplemented by an interesting sermon. Attendance
at Church, unfortunately, still depends "to a large extent upon the personality
of the priest, and especially upon his ability to preach. Our Church in many
ways is unique and should have attracted wide-spread attention, b^t_apparept-
jV-Our. distinctive notes have been .struck so feebly, thaï.if our Œurcn disap.-
peared tomorrow, I fear, it.is probable that its loss would~be"iinfelt by the
— — '
During the period of consolidation the Church of necessity stood still.
It was not the time for change, for departures, for trying new experiments.
Now, however, that our foundations have been well established, it seems op­
portune to think of the future, to develop well-designed plans to guide us in
the elevation of our structure. I am convinced that, with a certain fundamen­
tal change in our outlook and with the adoption of a directive programme, a
(
future of enormous possibilities for good will open before our Church. With­
out such a change in outlook, such a programme, I cannot see how the Church
can do more than drag on through the years as a small, relatively feeble, poor­
ly financed organization, priested by devoted but largely untrained men, lack­
ing a definite goal and unable to play any essential part in the reconstruction
of civilization.
Mention has been made of a ".definite goal.” What is the goal of our
movement? What are we trying to do? Why does the Liberal Catholic Church
exist? Is the answer to be found in the opening words of our Statement of
Principles? Let me quote them: The Liberal Catholic Church exists to forward
the work of her Master Christ in the world, and to feed His flock. At first
reading this statement seems to set forth our goal quite clearly, but upon re­
flection the question arises: “What is the work.of Christ in the world?"
Universally in earlier centuries, and at the present time in conservative
Churches, both Catholic and Protestant, the supreme work of Christ was
IfU^TXteround the doctrine of Salvation. The Sacrifice of our Lord
as Saviour, the dèIrvêHncF^Flnan~"From sin, the infusing of spirituality in
order that immortality might be attained, were all key-ideas which through
the centuries led to regular attendance at worship, generous giving, devoted
labour and sacrifice. In order that His Sacrifice might not be in vain and that
souls might be saved from eternal torment, apostles and missionaries ventured
■over unknown seas into strange lands, endured privation, suffered loneliness
and the loss of all that most men hold dear, at times underwent torture and
agonizing death. At the heart of the doctrine of Salvation, despite its emphasis
on hell, there lies a splendid ideal, inspiring millions to good works, leading
to acts of glorious heroism and self-forgetfulness. This ideal filled the pages
of history with the deeds of martyrs and saints, it led to the founding of schools
and monasteries wherein the lamp of learning remained alight in a darkened
world, it inspired the construction of soaring cathedrals and the painting of
unequalled masterpieces, it created an incomparable literature of devotion and
aspiration. I he goal of Salvation has kept, and still keeps, millions of be­
lieving people fairly well upon the slippery path of moral living and has pro­
duced a civilization which, though very imperfect, is nevertheless stamped
with scene magnificent virtues.
6
B^ljghtened modern thought has laid aside the ideas of hell, damnation
everlasting punishment,...divine wrath,and vengeance as inadequate, mislearP
inja_&Ojl unworthy, Salvation in the older sense has become meaningless,
thereby snapping the ancient mainspring to Christian action and worship.
. When, in addition, there is revived, as in our Church, the sound philosophical
- idea of rebirth in which ultimate failure is impossible, and, further, when for
the personal, loving Sacrifice of Christ as Saviour there is substituted the re­
mote, impersonal Sacrifice of the Logos, some of the strongest motives which
led Christian people in the past to attend and support their Church have been
annihilated. Lastly, when it is taught that all men are inherently immortal
and that the after-life in heaven is not bestowed by any Sacrament upon the
faithful but is the birthright of every one regardless of creed or religion, jt is
people-to-fl-mn-h After all, -
why should anyone bother about going to church? Would it not be better for
health of mind and body to spend Sunday in the country, under the trees,
among the flowers, basking in the sunlight, or tramping the woods? Why
join,a Church at all? Cannot one do just as much good in the world and lead
just as moral a life without joining a religious organization? Indeed, why is
there any necessity for what is called religion? Is not the whole notion of
religion an anachronism, a relic of earlier days of ignorance, superstition,
fear? Why not toss overboard the whole deckload of distorted ideas collec­
tively called religion-—the warped inhibitions, antiquated morality, inade­
quate ethics, man-made scriptures, pseudo philosophy, emotional delusions,
elaborate mythology, rigidities and intolerances—and substitute therefor a
sane morality and ethic, based on experience and guided by the facts of
science? These are the sort/of questions that are being asked to-day, not by the
flippant, but by theserious, not by the materialist, but by the idealist. If our
Church, as well as1
-every-.other Church, is to survive the scorching flame of
presènt-day questioning and continue to serve mankind in the future, it must
be; able to justify not only its existence as a Church, but the existence of
"religion itself.
. - In Liberal Catholic literature one main reason for people to attend
church has been advanced as a substitute for older motives. Subordinating the
fact that it is exceedingly good for one’s spiritual progress to be present at a
service, emphasis is laid on the idea that by being present at die Eucharist,
especially if one cooperates earnestly with the intent of the service, the volume
of spiritual power called down is augmented and therefore more people in the
neighbourhood of the church are benefited. This lifts attendance at worship
from a matter of personal benefit to an act of social service. It is certainly a
. noble conception and ought to be sufficient to cause faithful attendance at
services. At first it does arouse considerable enthusiasm and response on the
part of new members, especially those who have been taught something of
the inner side of things. Unfortunately, with the exception of a comparatively
small number of sensitive people, there is little first-hand knowledge of the
reality of these spiritual forces. The teaching concerning them has to be taken
on faith by a considerable number of the members and even of the clergy. If
anything arises to shake that faith, if circumstances make it inconvenient to
attend services, or if some other interest comes into the life, the tendency is
to drop away from the Church. The number of inactive members in this
Province, and probably in every other Province, steadily grows larger year
7
J by year. It is not that the people resign. It is rather that the Church does not
offer them that which really holds their interest and retains their loyalty.
Whenever a person begins to attend church from a dry sense of duty, even
though that cuty may be associated with the evoking of spiritual forces for
the helping of mankind, he may be expected in time to drift away into some­
thing else. It follows that if the calling down and distribution of spiritual
forces is all we have to offer to our members and to the visiting public, we
cannot hope to build up a permanent membership, so long as the impossibil­
ity of gaining first-hand knowledge of those forces causes people to depend
upon faith in the statements of others. Faith, like sand, is an unstable found'a- ‘
tion. The best we can hope for, under such conditions, is to witness a coti-'
stant stream of people flowing slowly into the Church organization and then
out of it again. If our sole work is the release of spiritual forces at the
Eucharist, the most efficient and quickest way to attain this end would be to
ordain every^ willing man to the priesthood and ask him to celebrate the
Eucharist daily in a private chapel. - : :
Some have urged strongly that if we offered exceptionally ‘
fine music at
our lovely ceremonial services we should attract a much larger number"of-
people, especially those of artistic sensibilities. This is undoubtedly true.
When we compare our liturgical music with some of the glorious composi­
tions of the Roman Catholic and Anglican Churches we are rather eclipsed.!
Yet we have found by actual experience that much greater response inwardly
is gained when our congregations join heartily in the singing of the compara­
tively simple music of our services, than when they sit passively listening-to
much finer music which can be sung only by a highly trained choir. This is
a genuine dilemma. Shall inner responsiveness be sacrificed to musical per­
fection? Perhaps the answer is that certain services, or parts of each service,
could be devoted to exquisite but difficult music. In any event, it seems ob­
vious that our Church must rely on more than fine music to draw people to
its altars.
From the widest point of view, free from doctrinal fogs, what then is
the work-of the Christ in the world in which the Church shouldWe^engaged? :
Î7 it not that of seeking to arouse in every human being, who comes within
its field of influence, the finest and best in terms of character, the noblest in
terms of service, the highest in terms of spiritual understanding? In short,
our work is to hasten the development of humanity in the essentials of a genu­
inely religious life. These essentials do not, in my opinion, have much to do
with doctrines and creeds and theological formulas, but they have everything
to do with life and living. If we could only make manifest in people some of
the splendid ideals of modern Humanism, but shot through and through with
the fire of spirituality undarkened by any clouds of smoky theological specu­
lations! To my way of looking at things, everything points to the inevitable
conclusion that'ourChurch exists primarily m aid people to live more nobly,
more l uippily, with greater sanity, in_fnendly relationships with their fellows,
carrying with them wherever they go the spirit u£ lovingkindness, radiating
spiritual influences. Our work is to help people solve their personal prob-
lems, to adopt wholesome moral codes, to make the best of their opportunities,
to call ' TLi!lPie.focuhics or powers which may be latent"within them. In
short, instead of seeking to prepare people for the world to come, we should*
8
strive to show them how best to live here and now. Is this not our goal? If
so. what are we doing ro rearh ir?
,"7 üT~ Mostly, I think, we are relying on the spiritual efficacy of the Sacraments, . ....
especially theJEucharist, to transform the lives of. our people. That this hap- IhT
pens to some is undeniable. I have myself seen some ama2ing changes for I '
the better. But are we accomplishing all that is possible with the means ait r :/
our command? I am sure that we are not, largely perhaps because we have
never given the matter long and careful consideration. We have endeavoured,
of course, to help people by means of our sermons. Unluckily, few people
in my experience, after the lapse of several days or even hours, retain any effec­
tive memory of what has been preached. Most people remember whether they
liked the sermon, or did not like it; they may even be able to repeat two or
three of the points made ; but as for any actual change in their lives as a result
of listening to the sermon, there is little or none. Usually about as permanent
a mark is left on the character of the listener as is left upon ,water whene zc
.z
.l...;er or’ th-
.stirred with a stick. If we really want to help people /wcmobly^h seems'to : - •viv wan;
me that we should study how to do that work effectively. May it not be that - ■ 5
;,y in our present efforts we are ignoring certain fundamental laws in the psy- . ;:r.~
chology of education? Many psychologists, I notice, are of the opinion that
the lecture (and therefore the sermon) is of slight educational value. They ;r.'
point out that only when the auditors begin to think, as well as listen, are : :
results accomplished. When people are permitted to ask questions, to voice ;
their- doubts and difficulties, and in turn to be questioned by the leader of
r -v r the meeting, thinking is stimulated and results follow. Passive listening alone
niv by a h Isa d o ra effective, yet no other arrangement is possible during a sermon at
- iveness >.5ÇÇviçe. The-inevitable conclusion is that while the sermon may be useful 1 is
-, . to attract people, if we really wish to help them, class work is essential. Notice
i5ic also that sermon topics must vary from Sunday to Sunday if the differing types
of human beings are to be interested. In class work alone is continuity of
teaching possible and effective. Class work fundamentally is educational, the
sermon exhortative.
-'•""FT' One of the most striking characteristics of modern civilization, in con-
trast to that of earlier centuries, is the lack of any systematic and adequate
- training in appreciation of the values of life, to use a phrase favoured by phil­
osophers. The major emphasis in school, college and university, is on facts,
not values. It has been shown repeatedly that experience is dual, that diere
is always a two-fold approach to reality, yet this basic distinction is just as
constantly overlooked. The first aspect of experience is that of a great mass
of facts, objective data—I shall make no effort to enter the maze of epistemol­
ogy and walk endlessly between hedges of opposing theories—which have
been discovered and reported. Such facts are impersonal, exist independently
of us. They may be verified, checked, measured, whenever the observer quali­
fies for such research. The second aspect of experience is the meaning to us
of all that pours in through the screen of the senses. We are not measuring
machines—as one writer has put it—-we live, feel, think, and certainly these
reactions are of basic importance. The first approach is the way of science.
using the methods of analysis, description, classification, generalization. The
second approach is the way of^art^ using the mediods of intuition, apprecia­
tion, synthesis. The first is related to the realm of facts, the second to the
9
IÇalm of values. A sunset from the factual side consists of a series of light
vibrations, possible of classification and measurement, which have been re­
flected from distant mountain top, shimmering sea, clouds formed of water
particles. From the value side that same sunset may be the opening of a
magic casement on to a glorious world of infinite consolation, measureless
inspiration, nameless joy.
All the finest things of life, all the impelling motives leading to splendid
action, come in the realm of values, yet formal education in the schools is
concerned almost exclusively with facts. This is probably due to the over­
whelming influence of the scientific attitude and achievements upon modem
thinking. From the earliest day at school to the last in the university, the
minds of the students are stuffed with facts. Examinations are concerned only
with facts, or the technique for gaining facts. Little is done, or can be done for
lack of time, to show how those facts may be utilized to healthy and beneficent
ends in the art of living. In these vast, high-pressure machines of modern life
we call schools and colleges, the plastic nature of youth is squeezed through
certain rigid moulds, measured by examinational standards, stamped with the
factory mark, and shot out into an unenthusiastic world as "educated”! Thus
we grow up knowing ah about motor cars and electrical appliances, airplanes
and radios, telegraphs and railways; we read and endeavour to discuss electrons'
and cosmic rays, vitamins and diets, sex aberrations and marriage codes; we'
hurry through the latest novel, talk of economic crises, social revolutions, ex- *
panding universes; we may even try our hand at dissonating music and bold
bad literature—yet we are still unhappy and frequently make a mess of life.
Of what good is it to accumulate masses of facts unless we can extract some
living value from them?
In this world where every kind of riches—-except money!—may be haq
for the asking, people do not know how to make use of them. In public
libraries are thousands of books containing masterpieces of literature. These
books, so far as the mass of the population is concerned, remain unread,
unknown, largely because few have been taught properly how to appreciate
them. (The average study of literature in the schools effectually kills all desire
to go farther.) There is a wealth of marvellous poetry, in which thoughts
wing their way to the stars in melody and beauty, yet that wealth is shunned
by most, because no one has shown them how to appreciate it. There are love­
ly paintings, available in the original or in copies, rich in meaning, vivid in
colour, bom of insight and skill. Yet to millions they do not exist, because
their eyes have never been opened and they do not understand. There are
brilliant descriptions of the far-flung excursions of philosophical adventurers
in search of reality, which are just as stirring in their way as tales of physical
exploits. Yet these are unknown to the multitude because they have never
been translated into the vernacular of the people. 'Nature is a fascinating book
of revelation to those who have learned to turn its pages, yet most people on
their visits to the country seldom understand a single symbol of what they see,
because no one has pointed out to them how to use-tlieir eyes.
And so it goes through the whole of human experience. Wherever we
turn we see values lying idle, unrecognized. Yet these values have the power
to transform life. The people are not happy as they are. They vaguely want
something. So many of them live drab little lives, full of pettiness and froth;
10
grey little lives, lacking in colour and charm; hopeless little lives, smeared
with passion and smut, because to them there is nothing better to do. When
we step outside our own circle of acquaintances where there is culture, appre­
ciation of finer things, some realization of life’s values, and move about in the
dingy world of the masses, we realize as never before the bitter need of some­
thing more in religion than an hour of worship on Sunday. What do the days
and years bring to millions of our brothers to help them in the fashioning of
their lives? Little enough! In the beginning some schooling, not much of it
of real value, most of it soon forgotten. Then the grind to earn a living.
Marriage, a home, children. Household cares and joys, the problems of shop
or office, scrappy news and gossip of the newspapers, excitement regarding the
coming election, the thrill of a hectic "movie,” the reading of a popular sexy
novel, small talk with friends and relatives, sister banging on the piano and
brother blaring on the saxaphone. Then Sunday arrives, the day devoted to
spiritual things. A sermon about something or other in the Bible, not very
interesting, a slight emotional stir caused by the singing of a familiar hymn,
vague listening to the well-known words of a long-known service, home again
to get something to eat, a nap under the newspaper, a walk in the park, a ride
it may be in a bus.or motor car, some small talk and the Lord’s Day is ended.
This is what we çdl life! No wonder human advancement is so painfully
slow. In lives somewhat above the average there may occasionally be a lecture,
an hour of fine music, a book of worth. Yet for the most part it is all so bar­
ren compared to what it might be. What are we doing, as a Church, to make
these lives richer, happier, wiser? Very little, in truth. A Sunday sermon, an
hour of worship. This is not enough. It lies within our power to do far more.
There may be instant objection that all this has nothing to do with re­
ligion. It has everything to do with it! We cannot divide life into compart­
ments and then seek to help in one department and ignore all the others. The
spiritual life is of the nature of a glow permeating the whole of life. What­
ever ennobles one phase of life, irradiates the rest. Religion primarily is a
spiritualized education in values.. ..
Civilization itself, acute observers declare, is in grave danger unless the
real education of the people is taken in hand. Cultural and moral education
is lagging far behind scientific discovery and invention. Here lies the menace
of the future. In his Revolt Against Civilization Lothrop Stoddard says:
Civilization always depends upon the qualities of the people who are the
bearers of it. All these vast accumulations of instruments and ideas, massed and
welded^ into marvellous structures rising harmoniously in glittering majesty, rest
upon living foundations—the men and women who create and sustain them. So
long as those men and women are able to support it, the structure rises, broad-based
and serene, but let the living foundations prove unequal to their task, and the
mightiest civilization sags, cracks, and at last crashes into chaotic ruin.”
Obviously then the matter of adult education in life’s values is of su­
preme importance. Are there agencies engaged in adult education? Yes, hun­
dreds of them. In any large city one may find Forums, a wide variety of Clubs,
organizations such as the Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A., High Schools, Col­
leges and Universities, offering class instruction and lectures along many lines,
most of them factual, but many of them cultural. In some cases membership
in the organization is demanded before one may attend the gathering; in
many cases a fee is asked, or admission charged. For some reason the Churches
11
have neglected this tremendously important field of human service. Of course,
many of them have offered courses of adult instruction in religion—Biblical
history, creedal doctrines, denominational observances—and here and there a
liberal Church presents an occasional lecture along social or economic lines,
but outside this little if anything has been done. There is no Church, no or­
ganization of any kind, so far as I can ascertain, which offers a well-designed
and comprehensive curriculum of adult education, adapted to the needs of
every essential phase of human life, and presented in the light of spiritual
values. The adult education I have in mind is not concerned with the collec­
tion and memorization of facts, with research techniques and technical prob­
lems. It is concerned primarily with values, and if facts are introduced they
will be used only to elucidate values. This “value-education” should not be
academic, technical, involved, requiring years of preparatory study: it is not
concerned with examinations and tests of knowledge: it has nothing to do
with degrees and honours. Fundamentally adult value-education is a means
of growth and development, an instrument for the solving of problems, a way
of acquiring new skills to meet new emergencies. Education of this sort is a
cooperative activity, in which teacher and student together search after the
larger meanings of everyday experiences, and formulate a working philosophy
of life. It is the wisest and best way for maturity to adjust attitudes and
habits to new experiences.
Have we not in our efforts to help the men-and women of this civiliza­
tion at this critical time drifted about aimlessly long enough? Have we not
expected that if we set up our altars, used a revised rite, delivered liberal ser­
mons and proclaimed liberty of opinion, the people w" -Id flock in? Is it not
obvious now that they are not flocking in? To say that our Church is intended
for the esoteric few, is, as I see the matter, to admit defeat and then rn attempt.
to justify defeat by rationalization. Is it not time that we should study earnest­
ly our Church, our methods, our attitudes, our assumptions, ourselves, to see
what is lacking? Should we not endeavour to find some way, far more effec-
y
tive than the one we have been using, to transform and enrich the lives of the
people we are seeking to help? There does not seem to me to be any need
whatsoever to relinquish anything of value that we now have, but there is ur­
gent need that we add much to that which we are now using in our efforts.
Earlier in this letter I stated that in my opinion a future of enormous
possibilities for good would open before our Church, provided we made a
certain fundamental change in our outlook and adopted a directive pro­
gramme. That change in outlook is this: That we cease to regard the Church
’■
rimarily .n organization for common worship and •
.insider it as existing
liyjidameTüaJdji jor spiritualized education in life's valres. I propose that we
strike out boldly in this new direction, that of undertaking education in the
values of life as our major object. I do not desire or contemplate any drastic
change. Under the new attitude our services would remain much the same as
I they are now, public worship would take place exactly as now, the Sacraments
would be administered, sermons would be delivered. But little by little, fol­
lowing the guide of practical experience, we would establish course after
course, until eventually there would be a carefully arranged, fully rounded out
curriculum, planned to the one end of enabling the varying types of human
beings within our care to achieve most quickly the best sort of life of which
each is capable. All of the courses in this curriculum, if they are to be really
12
successful in the spiritual awakening of the people, must not be mere copies
of the classes and lectures offered by scores of secular agencies and societies,
but must convey both in teaching and atmosphere, that behjflii^JJj^byskal life
is rhe Divine Life, that the world, the universe, iTb u ta veil of appearance
hiding the Eternal BeannLthat every creative humfinact is aTKeart a revelation.
The plan I have in mind does not contemplate any competition with
existing schools, colleges and universities. The Church, in this new field of
activity, would teach largely those subjects which existing centres of learning
either neglect to teach, or offer under restrictions which place the instruction
beyond the reach of the average person. A highly paid staff of instructors,
especially of the type of professor who is weighed down with erudition and
academic degrees, will not be required. For example, I have in mind a dozen
or more of the laity living in Los Angeles, who are abundantly able to teach
any one of several of the courses I shall outline shortly. With a little training
scores of others could qualify for the same work. If this is true of Los Angeles
it should likewise be true of every large city. Of course, if skilled instructors
in existing colleges and universities offered their services, we should accept
them with enthusiasm and gratitude. But I should like to emphasize that we
are not dependent upon such assistance. The instructors should be of both
sexes and selected for the most part from the laity. This policy will draw into
active service a large number of people along lines, not only of the greatest
interest to themselves, but also of great benefit to others. Not only should the
laity be employed in teaching, but in preaching as well. Then, instead of ex­
pecting the unlucky p^est to preach interestingly on every conceivable subject
under heaven, the sermon could be delivered by one who knows the subject
thoroughly, having made a special study of it. An available corp of preachers,
each familiar with certain lines of thought, is certainly to be preferred to one
or two preachers in Holy Orders who have time only to gain a superficial
knowledge of those same lines of thought. Increasing public knowledge makes
it imperative that we provide preachers who are specialists in the subjects
discussed. Nothing has injured religion more in the eyes of the intelligent
world than the superficial, inaccurate sermons which are so often delivered
from Christian pulpits.
Parenthetically, I believe that it would be advisable to found an Order,
composed of men and women, who would undertake to qualify themselves to
render valuable service in the work of the Church by teaching and preaching.
There is a strong undercurrent of idealism and willingness to work without a
profit-motive among people to-day, especially among the young people with
whom I have come into contact. It is possible, if the goal is worthy and not
too narrow, to evoke a magnificent and ■>
rring response from many of them.
Some time ago, when I developed briefly before a few friends some of the
ideas expressed in this letter, a young lady present....a wholesome, talented
type—exclaimed fervently: "I would devote my hfe to thsiii” A week or two
later, after a sermon dealing with the educational goal possible to the Cnurcn,
a number of young people gathered round me r the service all apparently
filled with the intense desire to be of future service in the work of instruction.
This promises well for the future. Is it not wise to tap this reservoir of spiri­
tual power and use it for the helping of mankind, instead of allowing it to run
to waste?. If such an Order is established, three logical divisions of the mem-
1Î
bership are indicated: (1) Those who are preparing themselves for the work
of teaching and preaching; (2) those, duly qualified, who give part time to
this work; (3) those who devote themselves entirely to this work, journeying
from Church to Church in the territory to which they are assigned. The mem­
bers of this group obviously should be guaranteed their living expenses.
The summum of all the departments of instruction in the proposed plan
of education would be that which I have termed "the Spiritualities.” (This
term, so far as I am aware, has not been used heretofore in quite this connec­
tion, but it expresses exactly what I have in mind.) The clergy, for the most
part, would act as instructors in this department, inasmuch as their life, train­
ing and priestly functions are concerned primarily with spiritual things. (In­
deed, I favour the policy that only those men who have an aptitude for the
Spiritualities should be ordained to the priesthood, all others being shunted
ofi into the many other departments of education. Or, the other way round,
only those instructors, who have shown a genuine understanding of the Spiri­
tualities, should be drawn into the priesthood.) You will notice that study of
the science and forces underlying the Eucharist and other Sacraments forms
pan of the instruction in this department. Intelligent cooperation at worship
should be emphasized, while the realization, not mere intellectual recognition,
of the spiritual power of the Eucharist should be regarded as one of the es­
sentials in the understanding and developing of the spiritual life, the supreme
Value of all values. Illuminated by the other courses of study and training in
the department of the Spiritualities, it seems to me that the Eucharist should
become ever nearer and dearer to the people, and that attendance at worship
would be changed from a perfunctory duty to an hour of supreme exaltation
and appreciation. With people attending the various classes held daily, in­
cluding Sunday (except, of course, at the hour of worship), there is every
reason to expea that the attendance at the Eucharist, not only the chief Cele­
bration on Sunday, but every other Celebration, will be considerably increased.
It is even possible that in larger centres a sung service might be held daily,
to the great advantage of young priests. I am convinced that the establishment
of the suggested courses of instruaion would greatly augment, not lessen, the
sacramental side of our work.
It is not expected that the people, most of whom are engaged in business
or occupied with the cares of a household, will attend more than one or two
of the courses offered each week, the selection of the course or courses, being
determined, naturally, by the interest aroused and the convenience of the hour.
But inasmuch as the courses might be repeated at intervals during the year
each time at a different hour, as well as from year to year, it would be possible
ultimately for each person to benefit by all of the courses. This ought to sus­
tain interest and stop the drift away from the Church.
In order that there may be clear understanding of the nature of the
courses planned, I shall present a tentative currriculum. It .should be under­
stood that there is nothing final about this list. Courses should be undertaken
only when there is a demand for them; they should be dropped if they prove
valueless or unwanted. No doubt, also, the list which follows is incomplete
or not adapted to the needs of all countries. Curricula obviously must vary
according to the country.. Lastly, may I emphasize once more, I have in min4
14
courses permeated by a spiritual glow, not academic presentations from only
the intellectual or practical point of view.
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL APPRECIATIONS
The Art of Living
An introductory, general course giving a survey of the whole plan of adult
education, indicating its purpose and showing how best to make use of the
instruction offered. Relation of appreciation, culture, self-expression to the
art of living.
Appreciation of Literature
Readings from, and comments upon, masterpieces of literature. What con­
stitutes greatness in writing. Lives of authors. How to select, read, under­
stand and appreciate books. (There might be similar courses in Poetry,
Fiction, Essays, Biography, Travel.)
Appreciation of Philosophy
An intimate, human study of the lives, opinions and times of the greater
philosophers. Their influence on the thinking of the world. Relation of
philosophy to daily life.
Appreciation of History
Dramatic unfoldment of great events of history, with emphasis upon cul­
tural values, social developments, religious changes, rather than on wars and
rulers.
Appredation of Music
Difference between tjood and bad music. Cultural value of music. How to
listen. Development of good taste. Lives of composers. Studies, illustrated
on piano and organ, of Folk Songs, Popular music, Orchestral music, Sym­
phonies, Operas, Oratorios, Masses.
Appreciation of Art
How to look at paintings, etchings, statuary, buildings. Principles underly­
ing various arts. Lives, times, achievements of artists.
Appreciation of Science
The scientific spirit, its influence on modem thinking. Growth of scientific
knowledge. Effect of discoveries upon civilization. New outlooks. Evolu­
tion. Popular astronomy, etc.
Appreciation of Nature
How to observe. Lives and habits of flowers, trees, inseas, birds, animals.
Story of geology and physiography. (Whenever possible this course should
be given while on excursions in tbe country.)
DEPARTMENT OF CREATIVE SELF-EXPRESSION
Creative Writing
Technique of writing, with actual training. There should be separate courses
in Prose, Verse, Fiction.
Reading
Training in ■-Eng aloud, with attention to voice, emphasis, expression,
correct pronunciation.
Public Speaking
Preparation and organization of lecture material, delivery, ini st, convinc­
ingness.
15
Interpretative Dancing
Preparatory exercises. Discipline of the body. Training in expression.
Dramatics
Writing of plays. Presentation of plays. (This course can be made of the
greatest interest and value. Young people, especially, take the keenest joy
in putting on plays. There is no better way to develop poise, presence of
mind, good carriage, correct pronunciation.)
Community Singing
Many, for whom solo work is impossible, are able to find happiness and
expression in group singing. Folk songs and musical plays, in costume, are
always enjoyable.
Artistic Handicrafts
The handicrafts are enormously valuable in enriching and beautifying life.
Courses might be offered in Wood Working, Wood Carving, Wood Turn­
ing, Metal Work, Jeioellry, Enameling, Pottery, Lettering, Illuminating,
Weaving, Photography, Basket Making, Leather Work, Bookbinding.
Articles could be made for home use, church use, for sale in a gift shop.
Printing
Valuable as a training and at the same time to enable the Church to get its
simpler printing done at small cost.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL RELATIONS
Current Social Problems
Changing social conditions and resulting problems. Proposed solutions. C
Effective Morality
Influence upon morality of changing social and industrial conditions. New
moral values and resulting code. (This course must be shaped by realism, a
thorough understanding of modern conditions and problems, not an anti­
quated theology.)
Sex and Marriage
Causes of unhappy and broken marriages. Rules of healthy sex life. How
to approach marriage intelligently, with understanding of resulting adjust­
ments and obligations. (This course can be made of immense practical value
if ably conducted. There should be a division of the students into four
groups meeting separately: Unmarried men, unmarried women, married
men, married women.)
Intelligent Citizenship
Responsibilities of citizenship. Intelligent voting. Study of public ques­
tions and political issues.
Applied Economics
Current economic problems. Effect on daily life. Suggested remedies.
Studies in all economic systems, so that an intelligent understanding of
what each one is endeavouring to do may be gained.
International Relations and Events
Relations between nations. Causes of disharmony. International Peace.
Racial antagonisms. -Current events.
16
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONAL PROBLEMS
Diet and Personal Health
Instruction in the simple, but usually neglected, rules of health. Diets. Food
combinations. Physical exercises.
Home Making and Social Arts
What is necessary to make the home happy and attractive. Social courtesies
and usages. Training in the duties of host and hostess.
Good Taste
Laws and cultivation of good taste in dress, selection of colours, home fur­
nishing and decoration .
Care and Training of Children
Urgently needed to assist and counsel harassed and puzzled parents.
Vocational Guidance
Aid to the young in selecting life work.
Use of Leisure \, , a^-..
Because of the shortening of working hours and consequent increase in
leisure, the intelligent and profitable use of such free time has become an
acute social problem.
. : •... . : ' .e ' - ' -. :o : 5
DEPARTMENT OF THE SPIRITUALITIES
Character Education
Laws and methods of effective character education.
Meditation
Purpose and practice of meditation, carefully adapted to differences in hu­
man temperaments.
Mysticism and Some Modern Movements *
Study of the philosophy'and outlook of a number of modern movements
outside the Churches, with especial emphasis on mysticism. Philosophy un­
derlying mysticism. Influence in daily life. Readings from the Mystics.
Scriptures of the World
Sympathetic study of the great world scriptures and religions. Study of the
Christian Scriptures, not as an infallible revelation, but as a record of spiri­
tual aspirations and insights. .
Churches of the World
Sympathetic study of the great Churches of the world in an effort to under­
stand what each has contributed to the helping of mankind.
Sacramental Worship
The Eucharist and other services of the Church. Their origin, meaning and
purpose. How to cooperate. Spirituality and the spiritual life.
In addition to adult education, provision should be made also for the
training and education of children in the values of their world and in keeping
with their needs. There is little to be gained by retaining the old type of Sun­
day School, equipped with a map of the Holy Land, and confining its instruc­
tion to the Bible. I have a committee at work studying this important matter
and seeking everywhere for information regarding the best methods of instruc­
tion.
17
Inasmuch as the erection of a suitable building (or buildings) such as
would be required by a Church engaged in the work of education herein de­
scribed would necessitate in the end the expenditure of large sums of money,
I believe that such centres should be established only in the larger cities which
are situated in key-positions in relation to surrounding territory. Churches in
the suburbs or in smaller cities and towns, need not maintain a staff of instruc­
tors, but could draw upon the nearest large centre for their teachers and
preachers. This implies that every congregation will have opportunity in time
to attend the same courses as those given in the large centres. This would
solve a serious problem, that of carrying all the advantages and inspiration of
adult education to suburban and rural districts, where it is most needed. The
building used by even small congregations should include if possible one or
two class rooms, a studio and workshop, an auditorium with stage, in addition
to the church proper. Also, it is important to provide a place for social gath­
erings. A Church dinner followed by a happy social time can do more to es­
tablish friendly relations and consolidate die congregation than a month of
sermons.
I feel strongly that attendance at all courses of instruction should be free,
except in those pertaining to the artistic handicrafts wherein a charge should
be made for materials supplied. I believe such a school, when once estab­
lished, could be maintained by voluntary contributions. When people really
appreciate what they receive they usually give more than the smallest coin in
the purse. I also believe that many of the instructors would serve without
salary, for the time being, even as our priests and bishops now give their time
to the Church without financial recompense. If this is the case, the cost of
maintaining an educational centre will be greatly reduced.
I also believe that all the courses should be open to every one without
any requirement of Baptism or Confirmation. When the nature and purpose
of these Sacraments are once understood, they will be sought after by the
people without any urging on the part of the clergy. As is now the case, our
services ought to be open to all, although it might be advisable, in the course
on Meditation, to arrange for a special service open only to those taking that
course. We should also continue naturally to administer Communion to all
who come to the altar rail, whether they are members of the Church or not.
One further matter of considerable importance remains, that of the name
of our Church. After seventeen years of active service in the Church I am
forced to admit that the word "Catholic” in our name is a serious handicap in
this country. It is forcing us to labour under a heavy burden of suspicions,
antagonisms and misunderstanding which are not of our causing. Millions of
Protestants in America fear the intentions of Rome and believe whole-hearted­
ly in tales of undercover political conspiracies. To them, as to thousands out­
side any Church, the very word "Catholic” is anathema, and any organization
bearing such a name is shunned. To former Roman Catholics, who have left
their Church for one reason or another, the name is often disliked because of
old painful associations. Among ardent Roman Catholics I find that there is
a strong feeling that we are upstarts using a venerable name which is rightly
theirs. So from all sides criticism is levelled at us.
During the formative years of our Church the Episcopal Synod decided
to retain the word "Catholic,” not only to indicate that the Church was a
18
legitimate branch of the ancient tree, the seed of which was planted oy the
Christ, but also to suggest tire type of worship which took place within our
sanctuaries. It was thought that by adding the word "Liberal two ends would
be accomplished: (1) that it would be an act of courtesy to distinguish our
Communion with its extremely liberal views from the conservative Old Catho­
lic Church of Holland through whose Apostolic Succession our Orders were
derived, and (2) that the possibility of our being confused with the Roman
Catholic Church would be lessened. It may have béen lessened to some ex­
tent, but there is still so much misunderstanding and prejudice that I ajq_he.-
ginning to doubt the advisability of starting any large educationaTscheme. un-l
der the name ’"Liberal Catholic,/’
Two courses of action are possible: either change the name of the Church,
or conduct the educational work of the Church under some other name.
From time to time various names have been proposed: Sacramental
Church of the Living Christ, Liberal Church, Church Universal are examples.
The difficulty with so many of the suggestions made is that the names remind
one of those selected by various "New Thought” and other organizations
which are sprinkled so plentifully over America. Nor do we wish to choose
a name sounding like that of some ephemeral sect. Personally I prefer the
name "Liberal Catholic” and I voted for it at the First Episcopal Synod, but
I feel strongly that personal preference has nothing to do with the matter and
must give way to the larger welfare of the Church. Perhaps it would be pos­
sible to find a name suggesting both our spiritual and educational functions.
The name Collegiate Church would in some ways be ideal, but it is already
used in other connections. Possibly Libei'ol Collegiate Church would be suf­
ficiently distinctive and definite. (Collegiate: Constituted or conducted like,
or connected with a College.) Church Collegiate is another possibility. Col­
legial Church has been suggested. "Collegial"' is used much less frequently
than “Collegiate,” although the two words have the same meaning. "Colle­
gial” would also permit the naming of individual Churches after some Saint;
thus, St. Alban’s Collegial Church.
The other alternative is to carry on our educational work under another
name. Collegiate Foundation (provided this name has not already been pre­
empted by some other organization) has its good points. If this were adopted
the Liturgy used could still be "according to the Rite of the Liberal Catholic
Church” although the advertizing and publicity would appear under the name
of the Collegiate Fundation. Also for a large centre here and there it might
be possible to use such a name as St. Alban’s School of Adult Education, or
St. Alban’s College, but what names could we use in the case of suburban and
other smaller Churches? If we followed out our present arrangement of nam­
ing them after Saints and spoke of St. Alary’s School, St. Raphael’s School of
Adult Education, St. Anthony’s College, and so on, the misunderstanding cer­
tainly would be greater than is now the case.
I feel certain, however, that if we really turn our attention to the problem
we shall be able to find a suitable, dignified, distinctive name which may be
translated into any language and used in any country.
It may interest you to know the programme of action I have in mind.
(1 ) Within a few days after the printing of this letter I shall send copies
19
of it to all the clergy in the Province of the United States. If a large number
of them approve of the ideas set forth I will then
(2) Lay the whole matter before the laity for discussion and approval.
This secured, the next step will be to formulate with extreme care
(3) A Ten Year Plan for the development of the Church into an efficient
organization in spiritualized adult education. Roughly, the first steps in this
plan will include
(A) The selection and thorough training of future instructors, first here
in Los Angeles, where the experiment will be tried out, then elsewhere in cer­
tain cities in the United States. In this it will be advisable to
(B) Secure the advice and services of a competent educator not only in
connection with the pedagogical training of the future instructors, but also in
the
(C) Preparation of a comprehensive curriculum. Every effort will be
made to
(D) Build up a serviceable reference library. Meanwhile in every way
of which I can think I will
(E) Draw the plan to the attention of public-minded men and women
who may be able to assist financially in establishing the centre in Los Angeles.
In this connection it will be necessary either
(F) To enlarge the existing St. Alban’s Pro-Cathedral by adding class
rooms, studios, workshops and an auditorium with stage, or, which is by far
the better arrangement, buy land in a more suitable location and put up exact­
ly the buildings we need. In this case we could either sell the present site and
tear down the Pro-Cathedral, or retain the site and use the building for a
Parish Church.
(G) An essential part of the plan will be to publish a Journal in which
full information may be given to other centres and to other countries regard­
ing our successes and failures, those things which have proved valuable and
those things which were found to be unnecessary. Such a Journal will be in­
valuable in minimizing mistakes, developing an educational technique, and in
drawing attention to our work. The contents of this Journal should be of the
very essence of applied Christianity, free of dogma, cant, outworn tradition.
(H) It will be part of this plan to train at Los Angeles instructors and
clergy for work in other centres and, if desired, candidates for such service
sent from other countries. In this way the experience and lessons learned at
the Los Angeles experimental venture may be shared with other centres, there­
by hastening the work of reconstruction. _ ■- G
■ ■
In the light of the foregoing I recommend to the General Episcopal
Synod the careful consideration of two important matters:
(I) The possibility of reorganizing the Church throughout the world
along the lines suggested in this letter. -
(2) The selection and adoption of another name for the Church•
tgi IRVING S. COOPER,
Regionary Bishop, Province of the
: ' United States of America.
PRINTED IN O JA I, CALIFORNIA, AT TILE PRESS OF THE O JA I PUBLISHING COMPANY
BY THE REVEREND FRANK E. KILBOURNfi
