{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1934__behrend___romance_and_prophecies_of_great_pyramid.pdf","mytitle":"Romance And Prophecies Of Great Pyramid","mylang":"de"}
D eV orss & Co., Publishers
8 4 3 S o u t h G r a n d A v e n u b
L o s A n g e l e s , C a l i f o r n i a
By Genevieve Behjlknd
T* D *■ t u b U m it b d S t a t e s o r
/
Contents
I. Vacation Q u e s t ...................................... 1 1
II. W ithin the H eart of Wisdom . . . . 2 1
III. Prophecies R esplendent........................... 29
IV . The Great Intuitive Power of God-Men . 37
V . Divine S e lf-K n o w le d g e .......................... 45
V I. Fulfillment of the M aster’s Vision . . 53
V II. Supreme Power Over Death
and the G r a v e ....................................... 63
V III. Climbing to the Summit of Wisdom . . 73
IX . H a p p in e s s .................................................. 83
X . Romance and Visions o f the Night . . 99
X I. True C o m p a n io n s h ip ......................... “ 3
X II. Glad N ew s o f Six W e e k s ........................
X III. Bon V o ya g e ........................................................ pP||
I n d e x ........................................................ 13^
D E D IC A T IO N
To my beloved friend, M rs. John Augustine Hartford,
whose personal life over a period of years has been a
constant source of inspiration and stimulation to me,
this volume is affectionately dedicated.
»
s
CHAPTER I
Vacation Quest
I
T w a s the last day of school. A number of teachers
were standing in the large hall o f one of Chicago’s
great high schools. A group of pupils paused to say
their farewells to Pauline Durant, instructor in higher
mathematics. Their adieux said, the students filed out;
and the teachers stood discussing among themselves
the prospect of securing their back salaries. A fellow
teacher suddenly asked M iss Durant how she had
planned to spend her vacation.
“ If we receive our tardy salaries before July 20th,”
Miss Durant answered, “ I shall be on my way at once
to visit that first wonder of this marvelous world of
ours, the Great Pyramid o f Gizeh, the one and only
prophet which has never failed in foretelling coming
events of major importance for a period of nearly
forty-five hundred years. They say also that those who
visit the Great Pyramid with an open mind find many
hidden truths there which, if adopted, will help hu­
manity to find happiness. T o me it seems that so wise
an oracle should be able to indicate, too, how a Chicago
school-mom could attract a good husband.”
A burst of laughter came from the group. Then
for a moment all was suddenly still. Could it be, each
thought, that Polly Durant was speaking seriously?
Polly herself supplied the answer by continuing:
11
■ ■ ■■
It must be a very unique situation to be so very wise
and yet not be conscious o f one’s wisdom. T h at’s the
position o f this greatest o f all the prophets. And soon,
with her father’s consent, Polly D urant is to be off on
her quest o f wisdom, and, one never knows, maybe a
husband.”
Laughing merrily, Polly walked away, the other
teachers gazing after her. A s she passed down the long
corridor Polly’s thoughts immediately assumed a seri­
ous trend again. M y mental attitude, she thought,
should not be that o f “ if we receive our back salaries.”
M y thought current shall change from this moment.
W ith my will I shall hold m y power o f attraction in
the direction that I wish to see manifested in form.
How very subtle our habits o f thought are, she mused.
They slip in on us and take absolute possession o f our
mental house like a thief in the dead o f night. N ow
I know that the law of L ife is th is: that as one thinks
one is sure to manifest. W ell, from now on no time
will be lost by me. M y mental picture shall be that of
myself in the very heart of the G reat Oracle, learning
all that I am able to absorb. A s she walked to the car-
stop, and while she rode to her home, Polly’s thoughts
dwelt upon the matter closely.
A s soon as she reached the house, she went directly
to her room where she might be alone and undisturbed
in order that she might put her mental house well in
order. This Polly began to do by simply tuning her
very soul in with her own conception o f what G od is;
and she endeavored to hold her feeling in that place
of joyous assurance while she mentally pictured her­
self in the different passages and chambers o f the
Great Pyramid. H er picture finished, Polly again
12
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
brought her thought and feeling into the attitude of
happy assurance.
Polly then went downstairs, and sought her mother.
“ Mother,” she said without any preliminary remarks,
“ I have been on the wrong road again inside. But I
am right now. From now on both of us must see me
sailing for Egypt, with no ifs and whens about it.
Is it not so, m other?”
M rs. Durant agreed to do her part in the matter,
and happily Polly went about her duties. H er mind
still pictured facts o f the Great Pyramid as she walked
about the house, doing her small tasks unconsciously.
She had recently read a number of works dealing with
the subject o f the G reat Pyramid, and she thought
about some of the startling assertions she had encoun­
tered. There in the Libyan Desert it still stands, this
oracle o f supernal wisdom, a vast monument built by
men, and in the exact geographical center of the land
area of the earth.
H ow could those wonderful builders have known,
forty-five centuries ago, she silently questioned, the ex­
tent of the land area o f the earth when much of the
land was still unknown at the time ? O r was it unknown
to the builders? W h y, the G reat Pyramid was built
more than forty centuries before Columbus made his
hazardous trip to our wonderful America. From what
source, and in w hat manner, did the builders of the
ancient structure draw their astonishing information?
Obviously there could be but one source, that of the
All-Intelligence. Those ancient Shepherd Kings who
were such master builders must have been in intimate
contact with that Source of A ll W isdom, must have
keenly realized their ability to tune their minds in with
Vacation Quest
13
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
It at will. T h e y must have been able, in some mysterious
ay unknown to us o f today, to recognize the right key
hen it w as passed to them from out o f the Universal.
W ell, P o lly mused, at all events I shall know how it
feels to stand upon that g reat m ass o f stone, so mys­
terious and silent, by whose m easurem ents and signs
and tokens all m ay learn much if they w ill but use the
key to all o f it. I shall try to understand some of its
messages at least while m y feet are firm ly placed
upon it.
A s the succeeding days sped quickly by P o lly Durant
simply knew with her innermost thought and feeling at
all times that the creative pow er o f thought must mani­
fest in outward form fo r her. A n d because o f that fact
she received, on the last day o f Ju n e, all o f her arrear­
age o f salary; and on Ju ly 2 3 she experienced the thrill
o f triumph by landing in E g y p t. A lo n e she had jour­
neyed, without the slightest desire fo r human compan­
ionship ; nor had she so much as looked fo r a face that
might prove friendly. T h e w eather had been splendid,
the voyage restful and invigorating; P o lly w as in excel­
lent condition to really enjoy the fulfillment o f her
dreams. U pon her arrival in C airo she secured, through
the medium o f her letters o f introduction, unusually
good and reasonable accommodations at one o f the
leading hotels, and arranged fo r a trip out to the Great
Pyramid the following day.
One hour after her arrival in the strangely beautiful
city Polly leisurely walked through the streets. She
felt very much at ease, although her friends had told
her that she would feel like an imprisoned spirit all
alone in that city where all w as so different, especially
so since this was her first journey abroad. T h e sug­
gestion now seemed absurd to P olly since she was
experiencing exactly the contrary reaction to her sur-
roundings. She felt as if her spirit had been suddenly
released; nor was she aware of any oppressive heat
such as she had understood would be the case in Egypt
in summer. She was clad in conformity with the
climatic conditions, and found that her mind dwelt
almost continually upon the adventure before her rather
than upon any awareness of discomfort.
Tom orrow she would be upon the sacred ground,
the thought o f which had fascinated her for so long.
She would then be one of the first to put her hand upon
the massive structure in which was enshrined the secrets
of the profoundest knowledge of the ages. She would
clamber over it, ascend to the crest high above the
earth, go within it wherein was written the marvelous
secret messages o f the foremost minds of a dim age to
those who should come long after them. She would
see the many scientific wonders for herself and great
would be her delight. W h at a stirring account of her
summer’s findings she would have to give her friends in
Chicago upon her return late in the season.
A t nine-thirty the following mofhing Polly stepped
into the saddle o f a kneeling camel for her first ride on
such a beast, and was soon on her way to the realiza­
tion of her fond dream. She could hardly believe the
evidences o f her senses that such was the case. Sud­
denly she was aware o f a rocking sensation, very
unrhythmic, first decidedly forward, then abruptly back­
ward, and before she could adjust herself to the move­
ment there would come at a most unexpected moment
a sidewise lurch. Soon there came to Polly a realiza­
tion of “ sea-sickness.” W a s there not irony in the
thought that she had missed the dread malady of
travelers for all o f the time that she had been aboard
ship only to have it seize her unexpectedly when upon
the back o f a swaying cam el? She must do something
Vacation Quest
15
about the condition immediately else she would have
to dismount and find some other form o f conveyance.
A thought flashed through her soul that the movement
o f this great camel must be in tune with the undertones
o f the Universal, and she kept her mind consistently
stayed upon that thought. V ery soon her discomfort
vanished, and Polly found herself really enjoying the
balance o f the slow, ten-mile journey. T h e crossing of
the historic Nile with its palm -fringed banks, its flags
and lotus flowers, she discovered particularly interest­
ing. And when on the opposite shore o f the stream the
guides pointed out for Polly the series o f pyramids
several miles to the westward, low, sharply angular
buildings upon the horizon.
Slowly the small caravan m oved onward, the pyra­
mids growing constantly larger as the distance to them
was shortened. Polly counted six o f them as she ap­
proached, three that now appeared very large, in a
row, quite close together, and nearby three more that
were decided miniatures in comparison to their tower­
ing neighbors. The guides informed her that still three
more pyramids would come into view a little later since
nine of them formed a cluster there on the plateau of
Gizeh. Anon the site of the pyramids was reached.
A guide directed Polly’s attention to the one in which
she was most interested, the oldest and largest o f the
group, the one farthest north. A sinking sensation
swept over Polly, a wave of deep disappointment. W as
that great pile of utterly non-inspiring sandstone,
loosely thrown together and unevenly terraced, all of a
dun and lifeless shade, really the object that she had
journeyed all the way from Chicago to witness ?
Bewildered for the moment, Polly asked again if
that were the Great Pyramid, and was informed that it
surely was. She was pleased that there were none pres­
ent who knew her. She was quite alone except for the
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
I m i6
two guides and a middle-aged couple whom she be­
lieved to be Germans. She would use the power of her
thought to dispel her feeling of acute disappointment.
She recalled, too, that she had read the beautiful, white,
limestone casing which originally graced the structure
had long since been removed, some of it to be used in
certain buildings in Cairo, but the greater part of it to
be burned by the residents for the lime the stones con­
tained in abundant quantity. Despite her knowledge
of this fact Polly had held to the idea that the great
monument was still attractive to the sight.
“ W ell, here we are, M iss,” a guide said. H e then
gave a low command, and the camel upon which Polly
was mounted rocked itself to its knees, almost unseat­
ing her. But the guide was on the alert; grasping Polly’s
arm firmly, he steadied her, and helped her dismount.
H ow small she seemed to herself here beside this
mammoth building. Really it was to her a man-made
mountain o f stone, solid faces of enormous scope, no
windows or doors visible. In wonderment Polly’s gaze
surveyed the east face. U p, up it reached in towering
majesty. Polly thought for a moment. H ow high was
it to the top? She had read the figure. W as it 486
feet and five inches? Yes, that was it, the height of
the average modern office building of forty stories, or
so. The guide as if reading her mind confirmed the
height. And what was that great figure which told of
the weight of the Pyram id in tons? W hatever it was
obviously it was not exaggerated. The weight, she
recalled, was 5 ,2 7 3 ,8 3 4 Pyramid tons; and in the
structure are not less than 2,300,000 individual stones,
occupying not less than 90,000,000 cubic feet of space.
H er flair for figures soaring, Polly became enthused;
her eyes shone with intelligent light. Gone entirely,
and utterly forgotten, was her feeling of disappoint­
ment of a few minutes before. H ow convincing to her
Vacation Quest
17
were the figures as she recalled them. Truly this'
enormous monument she was scanning must be to this
day the largest building ever constructed by man.
Polly followed the guide around to the north face
of the Pyramid. Immediately she saw the few original
casing-stones that still adhere to the face at the foun­
dation-line, and stopped for a minute to examine them.
Even to her, as one unlettered in the builders’ arts, it
was apparent that the quality of the stones was the
very finest. They were 100 inches thick, cut with the
greatest precision this world has ever known, and fitted
together with remarkably thin seams, yet cemented
throughout with a most tenacious and durable cement
which was most effectively holding, even now, after
forty-five centuries of duty. How inspiringly beautiful
the great building must have been originally, Polly
marveled, when all four of its faces, comprising nearly
twenty-two acres of area, were covered solidly with this
magnificent arris.
The balance of the party came by, but they did not
stop to examine the casing-stones. As they passed on
Polly lingered a little longer. She was not inclined to
hurry her inspection, and found pleasure in the thought
that she could concentrate better if alone with her own
guide. But even he talked too much, recited by monot­
onous rote his speech on the wonders of the Great
Pyramid. Instructing him to confine his words to
answering her questions, and to allow her all the time
that she wished at any given point of interest, Polly
moved on close beside the foundation.
Soon they came to the dark bore where A1 Mamoun
and his band of Arabs had driven their forced passage
into the building in A.D. 820. She recalled what she
had read of the incident. Mamoun had believed the
\
* \ f « ml)j as were the others of the
pyramids; and he had the idea that this greatest of all
Tbe Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
1 8
—
Vacation Quest
the structures must contain an enormous treasure. H e
had been unable to find the one entrance which the
builders had made in the monument— oh yes, there it
is, that pointed arch opening higher up on the face,
some fifty feet up the slope from the foundation.
The builders had sealed the aperture too cleverly
for it to be found by M am oun, had closed it with a
marvelous, revolving door that fit into the flat surface
so perfectly that its presence was not revealed by even
so much as a single joint line. So M am oun had forcibly
entered, at the cost o f a great amount o f hard labor,
hewing and chiseling with the crude tools his w ork­
men had, and quite by accident rather than by employ­
ment o f any science had broken into the Passage-System
near the junction o f the Descending Passage with the
Ascending Passage. A n d all o f M am oun’s labors had
been futile; he found no treasure w hatever in the whole
of the G reat Pyram id. T h is one, unlike the thirty-
seven others, had never been used as a tomb, in fact
it was not constructed fo r that purpose at all. Polly
found amusement in picturing to herself the great dis­
appointment that must have been M am oun’s, and espe­
cially that o f his men who had been promised a share
of the loot as com pensation.for their arduous labors. It
was no m atter fo r wonder that the men had complained
bitterly against them leader, had mutinied, and were
swayed from their resolve to slay their chieftain only
by his paying them in gold the amount o f their wages.
“ W ou ld you like to go inside now, M iss?” the guide
requested, forgetful o f P olly’s command o f a few min­
utes before. Polly did not answer immediately. She
felt somewhat hesitant to enter the dark recesses of the
Pyram id accompanied only by her guide. Perhaps she
had better w ait until the other members o f the party
were ready to go inside. T h e y were not far away, and
probably would soon join her. U pon second thought
19
the idea did not appeal to her. T h e other people might
babble all the time and thus spoil the trend of her
thought when she wished to study some in n er feature
m arvel. Then she noticed five other
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
o me
L.
& at
camels grouped not far away under the care of a herds-
T h e animals did not belong to her party. No
doubt another group had preceded her here. But where
were they ? T h ey were not to be seen anywhere on the
outside. Possibly they were inside. But whether they
j j *
were, or were not, she would not hesitate longer to go
within, and alone with her guide. T h e One Great Pro­
tective Spirit which had enabled not less than 280,000
o f the people o f the Shepherd Kings to come into this,
an enemy country, without use o f implements of war-
J J * oL
fare, to spend without molestation at least fifty years
in erecting this building, to call upon and secure with­
out any trouble 100,000 Egyptian laborers to help
them with their work, that P ow er which protected
them and provided for them must still he here to pro­
tect anyone who would provide the condition for its
manifestation, that of recognition. Clearly it came to
Polly that there is but one mind to think about me, or
to make laws over me, and that is the Mind of Divine
Love, Understanding, Peace and Power.
In response to her questions the guide assured Miss
Durant that a trip within was not now so very difficult,
similar to a visit through a cave in a mountain, the pas­
sages low and steep in many places, but not hazardous
any more due to the fact that a lighting system had
been recently installed and steps cut into the Boor of
the passages where they were most steep and slippery.
She would have to bend low in some places, and travel
along in a stooped and cramped position, but occasion­
ally they would come to a chamber where they could
stand upright and rest. They would enter by way of
Mamoun’s tunnel rather than climbing higher up the
side to the original entrance.
20
CHAPTER II
(Jjithin the lAeart of C
C
isdom
N
ow feeling confident that all was well, and
responding eagerly to the prospect of a jour­
ney within, where she would find the true
wonders of the building, Polly bade her guide lead the
way. Stooping low and exercising care not to strike
her head on the ceiling o f the small passage, Polly and
her guide slowly, carefully moved along the dimly
lighted corridor, Polly reassuring herself of God’s
presence everywhere, in her guide as well as within
herself. Soon they came to the point where Mamoun’s
tunnel joined the Descending Passage. Pausing, the
guide explained that the downward sloping bore led
down to the Pit, more than 300 feet of sharply sloping
incline, with only a 4 7^ 4 -inch ceiling all of the way.
He would be happy to conduct her down there if she so
wished. Polly expressed the desire to go and for the
guide to lead. Down, down, sharply and constantly
down they slowly went. An unpleasant odor soon be­
came apparent to Polly. She enquired about it and
was assured by her escort that the odor indicated they
were approaching the Pit; they should be there soon,
if she cared to continue. Polly wished to go on, and
soon they stood upon the brink of the Pit, nearly 100
feet down in the solid rock of the plateau of Gizeh
below the foundation line of the Great Pyramid. The
Pit, Polly found, was a great, dark, yawning hole. The
faint lights showed its ceiling to be perfectly horizontal,
21
and its bottom very rough and uneven, its depth rang­
ing from one foot to about fourteen feet. T h e guide
told Polly that she m ight go down into the Pit if she
cared to do so, but w arned her that it w as very damp
and dismal there, no doubt alm ost alive with vermin,
and the odors probably even w orse within its depths.
He explained that not one ray o f sunlight, nor a single
draught o f fresh air had ever penetrated to the Pit
since it was first constructed, hence its dampness and
abominable odors. P olly decided at once not to enter
the Pit She could seen enough o f it from the brink,
and her other senses supplied the balance o f the loath­
some picture. It was no w onder, she thought, that
the Pit. She could see enough o f it from the brink,
stood right on the edge o f it. She m ust not slip here if
she did not wish to go down.
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
The sound of voices came down the Descending Pas­
sage to Polly, men’s voices which boomed and rever­
berated through the narrow, low corridor so strangely
that their words were unintelligible. Undoubtedly the
men were coming down to the Pit. Soon they came
into view, one at a time, stooping very low, two tour­
ists and a guide. They were very surprised to find a
woman alone there with her guide. “You are alone,
Miss?” one of them enquired. “You have no other
people in your party?” Polly felt even more alone as
she answered in the affirmative. Sensing her embar­
rassment, one of the men gallantly spoke:
“The logical place for us to have met you, Miss, is
the Queen’s Chamber, where we have just been. It
would have been fitting to have met you there, where
you would have been more in your own realm. This
place here is abominable, is no place for a lady.” In
the dim light of the cavern Polly saw him smile broadly
as he added by way of explanation: “This awful place
symbolizes Hell, you know, it is Hell in fact.”
22
The other tourist, also obviously an Am erican, said
quickly: “ But, my friend, you must remember that our
ladies very often come right down to the brink of H ell to
rescue us and lead us upward with them. Is it not true ?”
The first man agreed that the statement was very
aptly made, and suggested that perhaps the lady might
like to accompany them the rest o f the w ay since they
had already been through some of the upper passages
and had found them rather difficult. Instantly Polly
felt that their plan was the thing for her to do. She
accepted with thanks and a light heart. Fo r a minute
the three conversed genially together at the edge b f the
Pit; then, the two guides leading, they began the slow,
hard climb back up the Descending Passage. Little
was said by any o f the party as they climbed, each sav­
ing the breath fo r the exertion o f the ascent. A t the
entrance to the Ascending Passage they paused a
moment to rest; and in the brighter light o f the junc­
tion Polly noted that each o f her companions wore the
insignia o f a popular fraternity to which her father
belonged, an order based upon the spiritual truths
underlying the builders’ arts and crafts. N o w her
companions seemed even less o f strangers than before;
there was no doubt left in her mind that she should
find them trustworthy. N o letter o f introduction or
recommendation that they might have presented could
have given her greater confidence in them. The men
swung at once into P olly’s feeling o f goodfellowship.
She learned that both o f them were students o f the
foremost authorities on the subject o f the Great Pyra­
mid, and that each had a well-balanced understanding of
metaphysics. T h is coupled with the knowledge o f an­
cient Egyptian history possessed by the two guides, and
their knowledge o f the Pyram id’s building, made o f the
group one that Polly knew she could enjoy greatly.
U p the Ascending Passage the little party started.
W ithin the Heart of Wisdom
23
T h e p a th w a y here w as ju st as steep as that o f the one B
they had ju st le ft, the incline being m ore than 26 B
degrees and 18 m inutes. H e re , too, the ceiling was B
only inches above the flo o r; and the discomfort B
o f n egotiatin g the w a y equally as great. Polly, noting B
the difficulty o f one o f the men w h o seemed to tower B
six feet o r m ore, w as th an kful th at she w as a foot less B
in stature than he w as. She w a s g ra te fu l also that she I
w as not stout, as w as the o th er gen tlem an ; he, too, I
had his troubles m ak in g his w a y , but like his compan- I
ions accepted his fate g ra cio u sly and good-naturedly. I
T h e entrance to the G ra n d G a lle r y w as reached. En- H
tering into it a sh o rt w a y , th ey paused again to rest. H
H e re they could stan d e re ct; h ere they could tarry. I
One o f the guides, tap p in g the n orth end o f the Grand I
G a lle ry w ith his staff, indicated h o w th at point clearly I
m arked the prop h ecy o f the birth o f Je su s C hrist. I
“ W o n d e rfu l, re a lly w o n d e rfu l,” exclaim ed the stout I
A m erican. “ Ju s t think o f it, this m agnificent temple I
was built here b y a race o f m en o f w h o m w e know very I
little, three hundred years b e fo re the D e lu g e , and more I
than twenty-six centuries b efo re the b irth o f Jesu s. Y et I
they prophesied both o f those even ts, as w ell as all o f I
those o f im portance in terven in g betw een the tw o dates. I
W h a t a great privilege w e h ave to be h e re .” I
“ I w onder if w e shall be able to tak e a w a y with us I
when we leave this place an y m o re than w e brought in
with us,” rem arked the oth er tourist. “ I hope that we
shall leave here m uch richer in k n o w led ge and ex- I
perience.”
Polly listened a t t e n t i v e l y to the exchange o f I
thoughts. She then re m a rk e d ; “ O f this fa c t w e m ay I
be certain; w hat w e call fo r com es to us w h en w e use
o r^ c r .°^ w ord s. T h e L a w o f R esponsive I
L ife flows unerringly fro m the w o rd w e u s e ; also with
the gift we must accept w h atever is hidden in it ” I
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid B
i
Twice the guides had indicated their desire to move
on towards the Queen’s Chamber, and one of them
now remarked: “ From here to the Queen’s Chamber
we move through what is called the Horizontal Passage
opening off to the southward there.” Still none of the
party of three was inclined to accept the hint that they
move on. T h ey were all deep in thought.' Suddenly the
stout man, as if he had only now discovered wherein he
and his friend had been remiss in courtesies, said:
“ I beg your pardon, M iss. M y name is Travers,
Jim Travers, M .D .”
“ And mine,” the other man smiled, “ is John Lewis.
I am an attorney. Both o f us are from N ew York City,
reside at the same hotel.”
Both bowed their a ck n o w le d g m e n t as Polly
answered: “ I am Pauline Durant, Chicago, a teacher
of higher mathematics.”
“ H ow fortunate we are, Jim ,” Lewis said, “ to have
this little lady along. T h is Pyram id is one object whose
study requires much o f mathematics if one is really to
understand its message. W e shall probably have to
call upon M iss Durant frequently to help us out in that
respect. M a y we, M iss?”
“ Certainly,” Polly answered. “ I shall be happy to
help as best I may. But please don’t expect too much of
me, for after all m y scope o f mathematics is limited.”
The party moved forw ard along the Horizontal
Passage. A gain the roof was only 4 7 ^ inches high;
the passage, like both the Descending and Ascending
Passages, was only 4 2 inches wide. The three seemed
unmindful o f being cramped, however, and hardly
noticed that towards its end, the last one-seventh of its
length, the floor o f the bore dropped twenty-one inches,
increasing the height o f the ceiling by that much. A s
they entered the white limestone room, that is, the
Queen’s Chamber, they scattered a little and admired
W ithin the Heart of Wisdom
25
its great beauty, the Gothic ceiling, the Great Niche in
the east wall, and the symmetry as a whole. Mr.
Travers brought up the subject of why the Great Pyra­
mid had this lovely chamber, if it were not intended to
have been used as a tomb for the Queen of one of the
ancient Pharaohs. Between them the three agreed
from the discussions that followed that such a pur­
pose was positively not the motive for the building of
the chamber.
“I am wondering,” Lewis said, “if this chamber
might indicate that the human mind prefers the easy
resting-place. Or does it call attention to the fact that
man’s choice is both up and down, both physical and
spiritual? For the most part we give our choosing
many names, neither good nor evil; and when our
choice is that of the material way we say that the abstrac­
tions of science melt into each other. We call that fate.
Now I ask you was it science or fate which had this
present little company of congenial thoughts all meet
here at the center of the earth’s surface in this Queen’s
Chamber?”
None tried to answer. But in Polly’s mind the
thought ran: “All is strictly in accordance with the law
as we individuals set in motion. There is no such thing
as fate or luck.” Then she turned her whole mental
force towards trying to understand the meaning of the
chamber. In a moment she said: “It seems to me that
one might remain here indefinitely, and still not de­
cipher all the meaning of this great work. Every frac­
tion of an inch in the measurements has a meaning all
its own.”
"Oh, but I should like to know,” remarked Lewis, as
if thinking aloud, “the method used by the architect
for his^original plans, the whole process, mental and
otherwise.”
“Wouldn’t you?” Travers answered. “Possibly he
1 . 26
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
used the same method that every real thinker is using
now. First he taught his own mind to accept the omni­
presence of Almighty Intelligence. This accomplished,
he found that the reciprocal action between the Cosmic,
or Origin of all Intelligence, and man, the particular
manifestation of the Cosmic, showed conclusively that
the two were one, that God is man and that man is
God, speaking in the ultimate sense, that each or both
are the same unfailing Intelligence. Then by careful
introspection maybe the architect discovered that
through the medium of what we now call the intuition
he could capture from the Infinite any particular infor­
mation that he desired.” Polly was listening intently.
“Don’t you feel, Miss Durant,” the doctor continued,
“that this Pyramid, this particular manifestation of un­
limited Intelligence and Love must have come into
existence through some such method?”
Polly hesitated a moment, and then thoughtfully
answered: “ I am not sure that I fully understand
you, D octor.”
“ W ell then, let’s put it this w ay. Perhaps the builder
of this great monument o f wisdom first established
within himself an unshakable faith in G od as the ever­
present Source o f everything, both Spirit (m ind) and
matter (which is Spirit in fo rm ). T h en he proceeded
to use his faith by calling upon the Source fo r w hat he
needed to carry into effect the ideas he had previously
received from the same Source.”
“ Thank you,” P olly said. “ I see now. T h ere is,
however, much room fo r thought in that idea.”
“ It seems to m e,” ventured Lew is, “ that one o f the
writers on the subject o f the G reat Pyram id states that
the architect was here on this ground fo r some three
years before he brought his com pany o f people here.
N o doubt he w as m editating here, and strengthening
his own confidence in the idea that real thought is in
W ithin the H eart o f Wisdom
27
reality knowing God. When he was sure of himself
he probably concluded that the thinker does not form
conclusions from the outer world, that the real thinker
forms all of his ideas about himself, and Life in all its
forms, from within himself, and in accordance with his
conception of God. When these facts were unalterably
fixed in his mind and soul, he sent for his great host of
men, women and children, of cattle, sheep and mobile
property. He knew that Love fills all space to those
who are conscious of the fact that they need not draw
arms against a neighbor, nor suffer themselves to be
attacked by a neighboring people. W hat a happy time
those 280,000 people must have had here over a period
of more than fifty years spent in labor for the mani­
festation of Wisdom, Love, Beauty and Harmony.”
“You are surely on the track of something worth­
while now, Lewis,” the Doctor said appreciatively.
“I quite agree with you, M r. Travers,” Polly added.
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
28
C H A P T E R I I I
prophecies Resplendent
HE party retraced their steps through the H ori­
zontal Passage to its junction with the Grand
Gallery. T h ere the guides paused to announce
the measurements o f the G allery to be: Length 15 6
feet, nine inches, height twenty-eight feet, width at bot­
tom seven feet, width at top three feet and six inches.
Going again to its north end wall,/ the guide repeated
that there was indicated the birth o f Jesus Christ, a
prophecy made by the architect and built into the struc­
ture more than twenty-six hundred years before the
occurrence o f the event.
“ Just think that one over fo r a minute,” M r. Lewis
exclaimed. “ T h e great architect was so very perfectly
in touch with U niversal Intelligence that he knew to
the very day when Jesus w as to be born, and that many
centuries in advan ce!”
“ N o r is that all, M r. L ew is,” Polly interposed, “ no,
not by any means. N o t only did he indicate with pre­
cision when H e w as to be born; but he also prophecies
and indicates with delicate precision by geometry the
place where Jesus was to be born as being Bethlehem of
Judea I A n d at the time the prophecy was written here
Bethlehem did not even exist; the spot where the city
now stands w as then a ‘waste howling wilderness.’ ”
M r. T ra ve rs was obviously thinking hard about
these things. A t length he broke his silence to say:
“ I often wonder where we go from here, and if one
29
should really seek to m ake m aterial manifestations
w hile here on earth .”
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
44
Ju d g
D octo
T r o w a r d answ ers th at question for
his g reat w ritin g s,” P o lly rem arked
you,
“ It
happens that the answ er is one o f the quotations from
his w orks that I h ave m em orized. It reads like this:
‘T h e nature o f the creative process is to establish a
conscious union betw een the subj and bj
qualities o f m ind in the m ind o f the individual This
means, o f course, w o rk in g to w ard s the production of
physical fo r m s .. . . ”
D o cto r T r a v e r s h ad been su rveyin g M iss Durant
w ith wide
recital to say
open eyes, and suddenly intruded into her
“ So you are fam iliar w ith Trow ard,
you, young la d y ? W e ll, w ell, w ell, surely God
does w ork in m ysterious w a y s H is w onders to per
form .
others that T ro w a rd is the ablest w riter along meta
W h y , both L e w is and I think along with many
physical lines that this earth has produced fo r cen­
turies. N o w that w e know that w e all three speak the
same language on this subject w e shall really enjoy this
Bible in Stone.”
“ D oc.” said L ew is, ‘ you are ght T h is a re­
markable circumstance. B u t do you that you
cut in on M iss D urant right in the m iddle o f one of
T ro w ard ’s finest quotations? I fo r one w ant to hear
the rest of it— if M iss D urant w ill please oblige.”
“ I am sure that you know it already, M r . Lew is,”
Polly smiled. “ But T ro w a rd goes on to say that the
concentration o f the subjective and objective qualities
of mind should be upon principle rather than upon a
particular bodily-shape. T o me this means that when
we pass oyer from this plane in full possession o f both
our objective and subjective qualities o f thought-power
w e find ourselves in a place exactly suited to our type of
mind. W e are then in possession o f all o f our mental
30
faculties, also in possession o f a form adaptable to our
surroundings. I believe that T ro w a rd explains eternal
life in an immortal physical body is the logical unfold-
ment of our evolution, and that we can transfer this
immortal body wherever we wish, or step out o f it alto­
gether. W hen we arrive at that highly developed
mental state we shall then regard all physical form as
primary substance entirely responsive to our w ill.”
“ For example,” M r. L ew is said, “ perhaps you are
thinking right at this minute that you would very much
enjoy a chair to rest upon.”
Polly laughed and said, “ Y es, I should enjoy a place
to sit down; but I am endeavoring to hold m y con­
sciousness on the fact that the principle o f harmony
and rest fills all space. A n d , believe it or not, I am not
unduly fatigued. W ill it not be wonderful when we
have obtained perfect control o f m atter, which is a
lower form o f intelligence, since surely all m atter is
Spirit slowed down to a point o f visibility? Ju st at
this moment, however, I wish to stay right here. Still
I can imagine how very interesting it would be fo r me
to be able to transport m yself directly to the hotel when
we have finished here, and without the camel.”
They all enjoyed a good laugh. M r. Lew is added,
“ Yes, or back to Chicago tonight to tell your fam ily
about the G reat Pyram id, and without the necessity o f
a steamer.” B y now the little group o f three felt as
if they had known each other always. T h e y again fell
silent as ascent o f the G allery began. P olly’s mind was
busy on the truths o f the Pyram id. H ere, for instance,
she thought, we m ortals are, m oving upward through
the Grand G allery, slipping and sliding, but remaining
upright, steadily mounting upward through the cen­
turies from the time o f the birth o f Jesus Christ. Ju st
what does this G allery signify, she wondered. W ith
the birth o f Jesus there came a tremendous change in
Prophecies Resplendent
31
the lives o f men, just as here in these halls we sud-l
denly change from a n arrow , low passage to this!
magnificent high-vaulted cham ber w ith a ceiling of
twenty-eight feet. T h ro u gh all o f the Descending,
Ascending and H orizo n tal Passages and right into the
Queen’s Cham ber one feels as if one must advance
solely by hard labor; there is no place to stop to rest.
F o r real com fort one must advance beyond the Queen’s
Cham ber. T h e y had gone but two o r three steps for­
w ard when Polly, who w as advancing slowly, suddenly
slipped backward. M r . L ew is w as immediately be­
hind her.
“ Lo o k out,” he called sharply as he caught her in
his strong arms. “ Y o u are not fa r enough aw ay from
‘T h e W e ll’ here to slip. L o o k there,” he said as the
guide flashed a light upon the W e ll’s yaw ning mouth.
“ T h at black hole drops down, down, down into the
depths, tortuous, steep, sharp and jagged, drops down
almost directly to the Pit. T h is W^ell is the well of
death; and it would be death to drop into it. In that
manner does the G reat P yram id ’s architect prophecy
to the day both the death and resurrection o f Jesus
the Christ, another rem arkable thing that the builders
foreknew/*
• “ Oh,” Polly said, a bit confused, “ I shall fear no
evil. God fills all space and H is protecting power is
ever-present. A n d I do thank the spirit o f protection
in you, M r. Lew is, for stopping m y descent. Just the
same when I felt myself slipping fo r one second at least
you could have covered my courage with a postage
stamp, and not a big one like the special delivery or
air mail variety either.”
Doctor Travers placed his hand on P olly’s shoulder
as he remarked in a tone so kindly that even the guide
turned to look upon him: “ M y dear, you will never
slip very far. You are safely beyond the w ay that
I I ^ 32
r
he Romance and Prophecies o f the Great PyramidI
leads down to the Pit. H ere we are now in this beau­
tiful Grand G allery, the w ay o f the Christian Dispensa­
tion, the path to L ife triumphant, and the release from
the W a y o f the L a w . N ote the difference in this pas­
sage and those we have just been through. The De­
scending Passage leads only downward, and at a very
sharp angle, and terminates in the abomination of the
Pit. Thus is shown in symbology the downward path
of the natural, or m erely animal, man, unspiritized man
you might say. It is the w ay o f rebellion and death
which leads to destruction in the Pit. Just 1 1 0 0 inches
down that Passage, from the original entrance on the
north face, you observed, the Ascending Passage
branches off. Strangely enough thus is written the
prophecy o f the Exodus and the receiving o f the L aw
by Moses. T h a t event represented man’s first success­
ful mass-reapproachment to Spirit after the Fall of
Man. Hence the upward inclination o f the Ascending
Passage. M ankind w as then on the upward path to
redemption through the efficacy o f the L aw . But that
passage is narrow, low and dark, and inclined very
sharply upward. M a n must traverse it stooped and
bent, must labor hard to ascend.
“ Thus is depicted the difficulty o f keeping the L aw
for the L a w ’s own sake; and the fact that the L aw
provided only justification by faith, and in no sense
salvation by grace. But the G rand G allery here, at
its north end, suddenly lifts up, sheer, the ceiling being
raised from a height o f only 47^4 inches to that o f
twenty-eight feet. T h u s is marked the birth o f the
long-promised M essiah. B y his birth Jesus fulfilled the
L a w ; through H im salvation, freedom for all, came, and
justification by the L a w was superseded. But some did
not accept H im ; H is own people rejected H im , scorned
Him and crucified H im . A ll o f those events the archi­
tect o f the G reat Pyram id knew would happen, and he
Prophecies Resplendent
33
prophecied them plainly by both geometry and symbol-
ism. You remember the Horizontal Passage which
leads to the Queen’s Chamber, too? That indicates
that the ones who refused to accept the Messiah could '
rise no higher under the Law by which they had at­
tained to the plane of human perfection. Hence they
must go into the Queen’s, or Jews’, Chamber. From
that room there was no egress, you noticed, except by
the way we entered. And even then when we came
bade through the Horizontal Passage we found the
bore terminating here at the junction with the Grand
Gallery. From that point one can only go higher by
passing through this Gallery, and the Gallery is the
Way of Christ. Hence to attain unto true Spiritual
Rebirth humanity must accept the Christ whom they, in
part, rejected. There was another very interesting
thing there in the Queen’s Chamber. We noted that
the air passages there, nine inches square, were not cut
through originally by the builders, that they came down
to within nine inches of the inside walls of the Cham­
ber, and were left sealed for the rest of the distance,
Colonel Vyse discovering this fact and cutting them
through in 1872. In that fashion did the Pyramid
architect write what St. Paul refers to as ‘the scales
over the eyes of the Jew.’
“Those air passages are the eyes of the Queen’s
Chamber, and they were sealed by scales. Now that
they have been forcibly opened fresh air enters the
chamber; but prior to their unsealing by Vyse the air
of that chamber was also stale and fetid from having
been unchanged for centuries. Indeed did this wonder­
ful architect of the Great Pyramid know his human
nature, the exact destiny that mankind would pursue,
and prophecy and theology as written and confirmed
in the Holy Bible. Is it not amazing?”
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great PyramidI
34
"It most certainly is,” Polly answered, eyes aglow
with interest and enthusiasm. “ Thank you so much,
Doctor Travers, for your illuminating explanation of
all of it Until you interpreted this symbolism for us
there were some things that I saw ‘as through a glass
darkly, but now I see face to face/ ”
“ Bravo, my frien d !” John Lew is added. “ I, too,
am very grateful to you.”
Prophecies Resplendent
35
C H A P T E R I V
©reat Intuitive power
of ©od-M
en
P H h e group turned as if to start on up the Grand
I Gallery. D octor T ra v e rs, addressing his com-
JL p an io n s, said : “ N e x t time, M iss Durant, if you
just must slip, please remember that I, and not Jack
here, am to be the catcher.”
Lew is laughingly replied: “ W ell, D oc, you know
very well that I have alw ays been more fortunate than
you are. M iss D urant, do you believe that the idea
for this G reat Prophet in Stone came from the U ni­
versal Intelligence?”
“ Certainly I do. T o me there is no doubt o f it at
all. I wonder, did the thought o f it in all o f its m ag­
nificence and grandeur come to Shem, or whoever the
architect was, while he slept, or while he was in medi­
tation? I wonder how he felt when some o f these
great ideas came floating across the horizon o f his con­
scious mind. D id he know at once that all he needed
to do w as to consciously recognize his one-ness with
that Supreme, E ver-P resen t Intelligence, that It would
then flow through his own consciousness, supply him
with whatever ideas he needed, every step o f the w ay,
until humanity had this grand Bible in Stone? In fact,
I wonder and wonder and wonder. H e must have had
a supreme faith in that Parent Pow er whom Jesus was
to later call ‘F ath er,’ which gave hihi the original idea
for this monument; he must have had to draw from
the same Source the ideas fo r all the w ays and means
37
until this ‘altar unto the Lord,’ as Isaiah terms it,
was completed.”
“Can you realize as keenly as I can,” Travers asked,
“that we are now standing on holy ground? Right
on the sacred spot where the truth of the Fall and Rise
of Man is shown, just as in the Bible, and that it was
written here first?”
Up the Grand Gallery the party slowly went, care­
fully examining the stones of the sidewalls. For the
first four hundred inches the stones were firm, hard,
perfect, no flaws or surface scars in them anywhere.
Suddenly then the stones became unsound and badly
scarified. For 150 inches or so they continued thus.
Noting this feature, Travers asked: “Jack, what in­
terpretation do you put on this feature of the smooth
stones for a distance, and then the badly scarred ones
for a way, both of which were obviously so chosen by
the architect and builders to convey some message to
later men?”
Lewis thought the matter over carefully for a min­
ute, plumbing the depths of his mind. “Well,” he said,
“we know, Doc, that throughout these Passages, up to
the Great Step up there ahead,, the unit of measurement
that is the key to the prophecies is that of one inch,
and that this key of one inch is used to measure one
year. Now let's delve into tfur ancient history a bit,
especially that of the Roman Empire for a few hundred
years after the time of Jesus because it was under the
sway of Rome that the Christian Church came and
grew through its first few hundred years. Let’s start
with the time of the Crucifixion, let’s say, or better still,
with the episode of Pentecost. The first four hundred
years after Pentecost the Church, despite the extremely
cruel persecution of the Caesars, grew steadily, and on
a firm basis. Hence the sound stones, unscarred and
beautiful, for four hundred inches. But just after A.D.
HESS! Itswm 38
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
400, Doc, what happened to the Roman Em pire?
Alaric, the Terrible, and his hordes from the north,
swept into and through the Em pire with all the fury
and inexorable advance o f a destructive tornado. N oth ­
ing stopped him, nor his pillage and plunder. U nder
him, and those hosts who came after him, nearly all o f
the Roman Em pire w as captured, ravished, destroyed.
And with it came the very near destruction o f the
Church o f Jesus Christ. H ence these scarred, weak,
instable stones which show in sym bology and prophecy
the transition o f the Church through a most crucial
period. Does not that give you the answer, D oc ?”
“It does, and how!” Travers replied, in his enthusi­
asm lapsing into his occasional slang.
“But that is only really the beginning of the travail
that the Church bore, is it not, Mr. Lewis?” Polly
asked. “Does this beautiful Grand Gallery not show
the whole of the Church’s history? To the best of
my memory, such is the case.”
“You are exactly right, Miss Durant. By the same
processes, those of measurements, an inch to the year,
as well as by the symbolism of the stones, their condi­
tion, etc., the whole thing is written; and, mind you,
all of it was prophecy, written here many centuries
before its occurrence. By way of further example, look
there!” Lewis turned to the sidewalls of the Gallery.
“Count those overlapping tiers of stones that compose
this wall. How many are there? Seven courses, huh?
All right, how many of the ancient churches were there
at the time of the Apostles? Seven! The seven
churches that were in Asia. Thus is shown the Seven
Churches of Scripture to whom St. Paul addressed his
famous Epistles while a prisoner of Caesar at Rome,
awaiting his execution, also the same Seven Churches
to whom St. John, the Divine, dedicated his marvelous
prophecy of the Revelation.”
The Great Intuitive Power of God-Men
3
9
9
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
“ Is not that really wonderful
D o let us go on and see w hat eh
exclaimed Polly.
Never
have I known such utter fascination as I am find
ing here.”
T h ey moved up the G rand G allery a little farther.
Again Lew is turned his flashlight upon the stones of
the sidewall, where they joined the ramp-stones that
run along the edge o f the floor. “ N o w ,” said M r.
Lewis, “ here we are at the year A .D . 6 2 2 . W h a t hap­
pened then? M oham m ed’s fam ous H eg ira. W a s not
Mohammed’s fierce invasion o f the Christian nations a
M
terrible ordeal for Christianity? D id he not sweep
through the H o ly Land, A sia M in o r and A fric a like a
scourge? And then cross into Spain and lay it deso­
late? It seemed certain that all o f Europe, and with it
B ut fo r Charles M artel,
Christianity, was doomed,
the Hammer, such surely would have been the case.
A t Tours M artel broke the heads o f the M oham m e­
dans and destroyed any possibility o f further inroads
upon the Church from that source. W e ll, look here!
See?” Lewis pointed out the prophecy o f those events,
showing clearly the rise o f M oham m edanism and the
stoppage of by M artel, all depicted
symbolism and measurements exactly as, and when
became history
Polly marveled still more the uncanny power
possessed by the architect o f the G reat Pyram id. “ I
wonder,” she then said, “ just w hy we humans o f to-day
do not use those same powers. Surely we have them,
innately, just as this great people, the Shepherd
Kings, did.”
“ M y observation of the human race,” D octor T ra v -
plied, “ is that we do not really use the powers
that we know we have. Discreditable
humans, I honestly believe that e\
intelligence more than we do. A
a plant uses its
4
0
loses its individuality, although it does change. But
the plant changes by m erely intensifying its pow ers, not
by grossly neglecting and despoiling them as we do.”
“ That is a big thought, Jim ,” L ew is responded. “ I
know that you must have at some time realized how a
plant constantly reaches out to fulfill its purpose; as
it is nourished it is also enriched by the elements which
surround it.”
“ Would you say then,” asked P olly, “ that just as
the plant illustrates or m anifests a pow er o f initiative
and selection at its Life-center, so has the great builder
shown here how he m anifested the pow er to partake
freely of the U niversal Intelligence w ith which w e are
surrounded, and then how to incorporate into h im self?
The plant takes unto itself only the elements necessary
for its perfect m anifestation. U n like humans, it re­
jects the injurious ones. A n d then plant life is never
overwhelmed by darkness, o r w h at to humans m ight be
discouraging obstacles. It sim ply recasts, tries again
and again until it appropriates com pletely to itself all
such tests. Y e t the m ost searching analysis can not
possibly separate the different substances which go into
the making o f a rose whose existence seems to be the
purest spiritualization o f the particles o f m atter which
have entered into its fra g ra n t soul, all draw n from the
body of the fertile earth which first im prisoned the tiny
rose-seed.”
“ That is well put, M iss D u ran t,” L e w is rem arked.
“ Don’t you think that the architect o f these great scien­
tific truths which w e find in stone here m ust have felt
his at-one-ment at all times w ith L if e ’s Intelligent
Power as it is perfected, say in the rose that you have
just told us about? D id he, like the rose, d ra w his
ideas from that great U nlim ited Source as he needed
them?”
“ T o me, M r. Lew is, it seems that the w hole struc-
The Great Intuitive Power of God-Men
41
tore of this Pyramid manifests its architect’s power
and certainty as well as his intelligence; the whole
thing speaks of God’s omnipresence. Undoubtedly the
architect knew how to cast all of his burdens upon that
Ever-Present, Living Intelligence; also he must have
trained his mind to receive every thread of information
necessary to erect this marvelous mirror of the im­
portant events of life from that same limitless source.
Now why can’t we do the same thing in our every walk
of life?” Polly asked in great seriousness.
“No doubt we could,” answered Lewis, “if we would
take the time to realize the importance of adjusting
our conscious mind to the undisputable fact of a recip­
rocal action which goes on constantly between the in­
dividual mind and the Universal Mind which, to me at
least, is God.”
“It seems to me,” ventured the Doctor, “that every
thinking person, in a sense, recognizes that truth, Jack.”
“Probably so, Jim ; but what I mean is that we should
really compel our conscious mind to accept the fact that
it is inseverably connected with all Intelligence, just as
we compelled it to believe that two and two are four.
We should compel ourselves to accept the fact with
such finality that there is no more argument against it
from within, nor can any argument from without affect
the permanency of the conviction.”
“Just how would you proceed to do that, Mr.
Lewis?” Polly asked earnestly.
“Well, for example,” he answered, “you may see
five apples on a shelf, and someone tells you that there
are but four. Your conscious mind simply, but posi­
tively rejects what they have said, and they could argue
with you until the crack of doom but you will still
know better.”
“You mean,” Polly asked, “that we should in the
same manner, and with the same positiveness, convince
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
our conscious mind of its ability to always draw unlim­
ited ideas of substance, health, joy, freedom, or any
other quantity, from the Omnipotent Source, and not­
withstanding outward appearances to the contrary, or
inward lack of temporary comprehension?”
“Yes, just so. Compel the mind to hold steadily to
the fact that God expresses Himself through the in­
strument of man’s mind by H im self becom ing man.
W
e should convince our conscious mind, you might say,
that its direct connection w ith G o d places us above any
and all other powers, and that we can receive at all
tim
es the right answer to any and all problems that
may confront us, no matter how baffling or bewildering
they may at first seem to be.”
“I fear,” smiled Polly, “that we all need a good
mental house-cleaning.”
The G reat In tu itive T ow er o f G od-M an
43
C H A P T E R V
D
ivine Relf-JKnowledge
h e guides showed evidences of mounting impa­
tience with their party because of all the conver­
sation which they did not understand. The
Doctor, sensing the fact, adroitly led Polly and Lewis
onfor a few steps. Stopping to examine the stones for
a moment Travers said as the party stopped: “Look
at this a minute, Jack, you, too, Miss Durant, please.
Here again the stones are badly scarified, yes, even ap­
parently fractured. Just what would you make of that
fact, Lewis? Obviously it marks a period of great
stress for the Church again, and it comes after the
Mohammedan period.”
“Think it over just a minute, Doc,” Lewis advised.
“Go back into your medieval history a bit. Was there
not a period of great digression from the principles of
Christ within the Church of Rome at about this time,
a time when the Church waxed extremely corrupt, an
age culminating with, let us say, that king of corrup­
tion, the Pope Hildebrand? Through a period of two
or three centuries the condition of the Church became
worse and worse; there was a separation of the clergy
and the laity; the clergy was permitted lordly invest­
ments, and corruption of all kinds was rampant. At
length the stench of the abominations caused a separa­
tion of the Church into two factions, the Eastern and
the Western, the Greek Orthodox and the Roman
Catholic. Each faction excommunicated the other;
rancor, long and bitter, flared; each exposed to the light
45
jjjj, o f the day and fought the purification existing within I
| j; , the ranks o f the oth er; each tried to undermine and de- I I
j 1 stroy the other. R ig h t there w as one o f the most cru- | I
cial periods the Church ever kn ew ; hence these stones, > I
f prophecies o f that exact condition. So here is shown I I
J||l the debility and near-destruction o f the Church by self. I
ishness and wickedness existing in high places.” \
|jjP |f “ N o w onder, Ja c k ,” said T ra v e rs, “ that you are
j ' I f r e a l l y a good law yer, if I do say so m yself. You are
r jr - hard to beat at argum entation. Y o u always have an *
answ er; and they are convincing answers, too. But if 1
| j | ■. the explanation that you have just given is right, let us
lit see if the condition o f the stones gets better soon, in- \
|t ^ dicating the R eform ation, or the rebirth o f enlighten-
|;j] ment, together with the rebirth o f liberty which had
Ijlij, been so long strangled by the C h u rch .” ;
m ;1 “ T h a t’s O .K . w ith me, Jim ,” L e w is quickly retorted.
U p j “ A n d I ’ll bet you a plugged nickel against one of your
S!| j: awful cigars that the fact o f the Reform ation was $
■ill!! prophecied here, too, and is yet plainly decipherable
| | | ! ; ; to this day, both in the condition of the stones and in ,
ItljK the utterly scientific exactness of the measurements. j
ii'^ But seeing is believing. Let’s look at the stones along
l||j here from the years of say A .D . 10 5 0 to about A.D. j1
111; 13 5 0 , or better yet, down to about A .D . 1 5 4 6 when the
Bp Reformation climaxed brilliantly. That period was the ■
I- I1, age of Wickliffe, Huss, Luther, and other great and j
E; ' , fearless lights of the great Reform movement.” I
k They stooped to examine the structure carefully. A
J gradual improvement in the soundness of the stones l
was immediately apparent as they advanced until at |
| | : length when they had come to the limit o f the years
i set by Lew is the stones were again perfectly sound and j
i smooth. T h e Church had passed through its crucial
■if; ' years of strife and corruption, had been thoroughly
■ r , purged by the Reformation, and was again in a posi-
|
|
f
j? The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid I
D ivin e Self-K n ow led ge
tion to pursue its rightful destiny. Lewis grinned his
triumph as his two companions, although amazed, ex­
pressed their wholehearted approval of his interpreta­
tion of the symbolism and geometry involved.
For a few moments the journey onward was unevent­
ful and the party trudged along in silence. The guides,
who were leading the way, then paused and one of
them announced: “This large stone that rises up from
the floor you will recognize at once as the Great Step.”
The two men from New York stepped aside to permit
Polly to approach it as closely as she wished, then
closed in beside her, one on each side. One guide
mounted the stone to assist in its ascent when the party
was ready to continue; the other remained below to
render whatever assistance he might from that posi­
tion. The height of the Great Step was exactly thirty-
six inches at the sides, the party noted. But there was
a deeply worn groove in the center and front side, at
the north edge, where it plainly showed much evidence
of crumbling and general instability. With the aid of
her two companions Polly mounted the stone, was, in
fact, almost bodily lifted to the top for a step upward
of thirty-six inches in one stride is almost beyond nego­
tiation by anyone from a standing start. She suddenly
called the attention of the men to the weakened condi­
tion of the huge stone, even more apparent from where
she now stood than from below it.
“I have read,” Polly said, “that the north edge of
the Great Step marks the d a te o f A.D. 1844, and that
brings us down almost to our own time. It is said,
too, that the step upward here, so pronounced and
great as it is, marks a great mental uplift on the part
of humanity at that date. It is surely stro n g ly indi­
cated, isn’t it ? And, a d o p tin g the style o f Mr. Lewis,
let’s lo o k at h is to ry to find the verification of this
p ro p h ecy o f th e g r e a t uplift. I t is quite true, we ob-
4
7
serve at once, that at the date shown, and since, there
has been a tremendous uplift for humanity. One might
cite particularly the wide dissemination of learning
among the masses, the phenomenal growth of inventive
science which ushered in the machine-age, the true re­
birth of the various sciences to a point where all may
now be learned in them if they wish, and easily so.
But why, I wonder, is this stone so broken and crum­
bled, so obviously weak when we know that the builders
had access to, and could have easily chosen, a perfect
stone for this position? The ruinous condition of this
one as it now is has not resulted, it’s palpable, from
people having passed over it and worn it away as they
would a staircase that is centuries old.”
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
“You are exactly right, Miss Durant,” Lewis re­
marked. “This stone has been practically in this same
weak andbroken condition from the day it was selected
and placed here by the builders. They chose it so
deliberately, too, to tell a powerful, but most tragic,
truth, and again in symbolism. We must remember
that at this point we are still in the Grand Gallery, and
as a consequence still studying the Church of Jesus
Christ. You have remarked that here is shown a great
step upward on the part of mankind through the ad­
vance of learning and mechanical science. But posi­
tively there was not a corresponding spiritual uplift on
the part of humanity! This stone’s condition prophe­
cies thatlamentable fact conclusively. The answer then
is what, insofar as it concerns the Church? I hesitate
to say it, but honesty compels one to admit the tragedy
that here is shown the very great debility of the Church
of Jesus Christ since the beginning date of 1844. In
other words, and plainly, the Church has failed miser­
ably in its exalted mission on earth. Jesus Himself
knew that such would be the case, and before He de­
parted from this earth spoke of the matter in great
4
8
o
f
t
h
e
S
h
e
p
-
you are a
sorrow, saying that in the Time of the
missions of His Church should expire, th
would surely come again to be the Churc^ &wYork s
personally over His own. Could anythi.“ave.
any more plainly and powerfully than th!stor3ca^
fact of the failure of the Church to fulfiltunes.wl.
on earth successfully is written here?
upon humanity, we must admit; nevertheles
For a moment there was a profound sile
of the party thought deeply about what JR*. . ,
shown so conclusively. Then Doctor Traver^ a
Divine Self-Know ledgt1
ji/ou whole-
ancestors
tiis monu-
»»
irances.
mortir- ?
excitedly: “By the Eternal, Jack, the muiur- -
great prophet we gather the more I am bowled/
its unbelievable accuracy. And the strange i
that all that is written here is found in the Hoiy
also. There is not one point of conflict between le
1«
two; one is the exact counterpart of the other. I air
not surprised that this great building is called, and most
appropriately so, ‘The Bible in Stone.) n
u
All that you say is surely true, Doctor,n
Polly ?
serted, “and you, too, Mr. Lewis. I am overawed l
all of it, in fact, somehow can not quite preventnrfT
gooseflesh from creeping out on me as the full realizs.
tion of all of this comes to me. Can you believe it
every word that is written in the Bible regarding th
destiny of mankind is written here also, from before
the Deluge down to the end of the Millennial Age?
All that is recorded of Abraham and Isaac and Moses,
all that Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah, St. John the Divine,
and all the other holy prophets wrote is written here,
and, mind you, recorded here first? It was put here in
stone eleven hundred years before Moses, fo r instance,
even before Abraham and Noah. Moses having writ­
ten the first words of the Bible, as well as much more
of it, of course, is it not bewildering that in the Bible
was afterw ards inscribed all the sublime spiritual truths
49
The Komar,
serve at on'nd Prophecies o f the Great
has been re? possibl do yo think, even
cite partic, too, that M secured much of his
theth
science wf
opening ooks f the Bibl
birth of ton the track, hot on the scent, of some-
now be huch worth while, Miss Durant,” Lewis
But why “Moses, of course, was a profoundly
bled, so i, educated among the Priesthood of Egypt,
had acce adopted son of a daughter of a Pharaoh,
stone f;n lore that we have found written here sur-
onc aspart at least, for many centuries among the
peopb Priesthood. That fact we know positively,
wouheher Moses learned what he knew and wrote
“\is source, or whether he captured it intuitively
m?-ne Infinite, really matters little in the end, it
ms to me. The big thing is that what is recorded
ere agrees perfectly with what is written in the Bible,
1iat each is a positive confirmation of the other, the
V/o together constituting double-proof of the utter
7vacity of the sublime truths to be found in both
mystery of the Shepherd Kings, exactly wfm they were,
where they originated, what became of their progeny,
and all of that, that all trace of them should disappear
from the earth as if they had been swallowed by the
sea? By golly, I have the answer nowl Since what is
written in the Bible, from cover to cover, in both Old
nd New Testaments, extending over the long period
>f centuries, is also found here, and was undoubtedly
✓ here first, do we not find in that fact almost conclusive
proof that the people who afterwards became the
Israelites, to whom we are indebted for the whole of
the Bible, were the direct descendants of the ancient
Shepherd Kings? And this being true, you and I, and
Miss Durant here, are also descendants of the Shep­
herd Kings I”
“Doc, Lewis answered thoughtfully, “you are a
wonder. I am not surprised that you are New York’s
finest medical man. Why, man alive, you have ample
material in that idea for a life-time of historical re­
search. But jumping over the long lapse of centuries with
all of their attendant detail, I agree with you whole­
heartedly. You have the right answer; our ancestors
were a mighty Building Race, and did erect this monu­
ment that we, their children, are now examining.”
“1 do not quite follow you, gentlemen,” Polly said.
“1 am not Jewish; neither are you, to all appearances.
How then can we be related to the Shepherd Kings?
That is, if you believe that the Israelites were their
direct descendants?”
Lewis smiled before stating: “You have given the
answer yourself, Miss Durant, in the words that you
have just spoken. While all Tews are Israelites, not all
Israelites, by any means, are Jews. We are not Jewish,
that is true; but Doc and I hold that we are of Israel-
itish descent, being that we are of Anglo-Saxon blood
in a great part. Does that baffle you? Yes, I can see
that you are still somewhat mystified. Well, here is a
question for you to think about. What became of the
Lost Tribes who wandered into the wilderness and
were dispersed? Much has been written of that matter
in recent years; but the gist of the whole matter is that
abundant proof exists today that the British Empire
and its people are the descendants of the Tribe of
Ephriam, and that the United States of America and
its people are the remnant of the Tribe of Manasseh.
Thus is answered the riddle of what became of the
Twelfth and Thirteenth Tribes of Israel. If you have
any Anglo-Saxon blood, and I am sure that you do have
quite a quantity of it, despite the French origin of your
sir name, then you, too, are in fact a descendant of that
D ivine Self-K now ledge
51
mighty people of ancient days who built this Pym
the Shepherd Kings.”
“Somehowf Mr. Lewis,” Polly agreed, “that tho
rings true to me deep down within me where the
who lives always knows; and it fascinates me
hear you tell of it. I shall read something on that s
ject soon. At this moment, however, I am quite willi.
to believe you. I would consider it a very great horn
to discover that I have even one drop or the blood o
the Shepherd Kings coursing through my veins; foi
they were truly a tribe of the greatest genius this earth
has ever known.”
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great PI
52
CH APTER VI
fulfillment of the Raster’s Vision
W ^HEN all of the party had mounted the Great
Step, and were ready to proceed with their tour,
Miss Durant paused a moment to enquire: “Is
not this the point where the scale of the Great Pyra­
mid’s interior is so clearly expanded twelve times more
than the scale prevailing down to this point?”
“Again you are right, Miss Durant,” Lewis stated.
“I say you are bringing Doc and me up standing. It
is a genuine pleasure to go through here with such a
real student. Yes, from this spot onward, here from
the north edge of the Great Step, and for all the rest
of the way the scale is twelve times greater than before
herein. That being so, the unit of an inch for each
month prevails from here forward rather than the
scale of an inch to the year that we have used down to
this time. We must bear that fact in mind as we go
along.”
The group moved on but a very few short steps
when the guide called their attention to the fact that
the magnificently beautiful Grand Gallery abruptly
terminated. From a height of twenty-eight feet that
had existed from its beginning, the ceiling dropped
sheer down, following the course of the south end wall,
to a small, narrow, low bore with a ceiling of only
forty-three inches above the floor, the lowest roof yet
encountered within the whole Pyramid. “You will have
to be careful here,” one of the guides cautioned.
Please stoop very low. And you two big men will
probably be more comfortable, and get along easier,
53
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
if you go down on your hands and knees and crawl I
through here. The ceiling is very low all the w ay; I I
shall tell you when you may stand erect again, and until I
I say so please do not attempt it. You might easily I
hurt yourselves if you do. Are you ready to go on I
now ?”
“Not for a minute, if you please,” M r. Lewis said. I
“We shall tell you when to lead the way. Right here I
is a point of all-absorbing interest that we shall inspect I
for a bit. Miss Durant,” he asked, “continuing with I
the measurements of the floor up to this point, what
important event is prophecied here at the exact point
where the Gallery terminates and the Low Passage
begins ?”
Lewis did not have to wait long for his answer.
“Why, the outbreak of the recent W orld W ar,” Polly
said.
“Right. Suppose we think that one over a minute.
Nearly forty-five long centuries before the W orld War
occurred the architect of this marvelous building that
we are in positively knew that there would be a time of
very great woe for humanity; and he knew to the very
day when it would come, and wrote the augury of it
right here. That is why the Gallery suddenly stops at
this point. Up here we had a high ceiling overhead,
all through the Gallery that is, could stand erect, and
except for the steepness of the slope of the floor, we
could move along through the Gallery quite easily.
Thus was shown the lightness of our burden, the easi­
ness of our yoke, under Christ. But the Great Step,
we noticed, showed the falling into decay of the Church
because of man’s failure to step up spiritually as he did
merely intellectually, and foreshadowed a great tribu­
lation for mankind due to his failure to have kept the
commandments of Christ. M an failed utterly to keep
abreast of developments with his spiritual understand­
ing, and the practice in his daily life of the golden pre-
J
cepts of the M aster. As a consequence man in his
selfishness, both individually and collectively as nations,
cornered the mass-production that came through the
great inventions of men; trade-barriers were erected
against the commerce of other nations; competitive
armaments, born of trade-jealousies, continued madly
on until the greater part of the earth, and especially
the European continent, was one vast armed camp.
Only a spark was needed to ignite the blast that would
shake the world to its foundations. In the assassination
of the Austrian Grand Duke at Sarajevo the excuse for
the call to arms was offered; all the submerged hatreds
of years came to the surface, and the W ar was on. On
August 4-5, 1914, England entered the conflict. And
that, strange as it may seem, is the exact date marked
here by the edge of this low stone. For almost fifty-
two inches forward from here we must stoop and crawl
and labor hard to get through; and for all of that dis­
tance there will rest upon our aching backs a great
stone. Thus is shown in symbolism the awful load of
tribulation that man carried for nearly fifty-two months
when the W orld W a r raged. Surely man was then
weighted down, and could only go forward by bearing
upon his back very great sorrows and agonies. Of all
the prophecies written here, somehow this one is the
most overwhelming to me, perhaps to some extent be­
cause I was overseas with the A.E.F. during the W ar.
But let us shoulder our load now, and go on. What
do you say? Are you prepared for the ordeal ?”
Into the low, dark bore the group entered in single
file, one guide leading, Doctor Travers next, then Miss
Durant, Lewis and the second guide, all crawling slowly
along. A t length the guide in front cautiously arose,
feeling his way slowly before turning his light on to
bring out the body of the thing he wished so earnestly
to avoid hitting with his head or back as he arose.
“Look out just here when you reach this spot,” he
Fulfillment of the Master’s Vision
55
n
a
e,
The Romance and Proph the Great Pyramid
said
U
You will see the reason when you Don
up until I tell you to do so; else you may split your
head or injure your back.” Carefully each member
proceeded, and at a word from the watching guide
each arose with extreme caution. They now stood
the Ante-Chamber outside the King’s Chamber Doc
tor Travers, turning around, cast a beam from his
light upon the object they had so studiously avoided
There it was, the Granite Leaf. Just fourteen inches
into the Ante-Chamber from the entrance to it, four
teen inches from where the Low Passage opened
the room, the Granite Leaf hung down from the ceiling
to the same height from the floor that the ceiling of
the Low Passage had, namely forty-three inches
entering the Ante-Chamber, if one lifted the head
soon, or arose from a stooping position too quidkly
the head would surely collide with great force against
the suspended Granite Leaf. No wonder the guide had
so assiduously warned them of presence and
location
His light still playing upon the beautiful thin sheaf
of spiraled granite, Doctor Travers said Now there
something else of great fascination for I have
read in authentic volumes that the Granite Leaf
ponds to the Veil before the Ark of the Covenant
the Veil that was rent in twain at the Crucifixion in
aa accordance with the prophe to that effect And
pay continuing his Bible correlary, here the architect put
w
V this granite veil in the exact position that it must be
an pond to what was later written in the Scrip
m
ft tures. That is something more to marvel over, it
se seems to me
U
T h is wonderful, w onderful building
chain of m arvels. D octor P o lly said
a had time to view and think about
Hardly
thing of
importance until we have come upon another
great or even greater. I wonder if
as
f
ever really
56
1
grow accustomed to this rapid-fire series of m arvels
that we are privileged to study today.”
“It is difficult to do so, I am sure,” Lewis remarked.
“And to show you yet again just how much so it is,
let’s examine some more written events in the order of
their occurrence. Doc jumped right over two or three
of them in his enthusiasm to point out the Veil for you.
For instance, let’s stoop down here a minute, and turn
our torches upon the end of the Low Passage, here
where the north w all of the Ante-Chamber rises. See
the end of the low bore there? W hat date do you
think is marked there in the Pyram id chronology?
That of November 9-10, 1918. Thus does the south
end of the Low Passage m ark the term ination of the
World W ar, just as its other end m arked the begin­
ning of that same time of great sorrow.”
“But does not the architect miss his prophecy by one
day there?” queried Polly. “The Arm istice came on
November 11, 1918.”
“Well, let’s see if he missed it any,” Lewis answered.
“If he does it is the very first prophecy from since be­
fore the Deluge that he has erred in by even a minute
fraction. W hat happened on the date of November
9, 1918, for exam ple? The K aiser abdicated. The
World W ar was really over right then. But let’s look
for a moment to the next day, November 10, 1918.
What occurred then ? K aiser W ilhelm fled to H olland.
If his abdication did not really spell the end of the war,
then undoubtedly his flight from the Fatherland did.
The fighting did not cease until eleven o’clock the next
morning, November 11, but that was more because of
the slowness of passing the order to cease firing along
the great lines of combat than to any other factor; and
I hold that, technically at least, the W ar ended on
November 9-10, 1918, just as prophecied here. Do
you not agree?”
“I surely do,” Polly replied, eyes aglow with wonder-
F u lfillm en t o f th e M aster’s V ision
5
7
ment. “That being so, and the Low Passage of the'
War period ending there, then surely the uplift of the
ceiling here in the Ante-Chamber must signify some-
thing good, for here again we can stand upright and
rest. But I can not figure out just why, when one has
come to the end of the Low Passage and thinks that
he may again rise up unhampered, there is a great
granite stone hanging down from the ceiling where
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
might lay his skull open
Why a trap for
sly injure the back,
a snare like that, here at the
Granite Leaf?
The Granite Leaf, Miss Durant,” Lewis explained
it
IS ften called the Stone of Futility, as well the
Veil
But still I do not quite understand. Now I sup­
pose that I shall have to know just why it is the Stone
of Futility. I hope that you do not mind explaining
further. Mr. Lewis.”
Surely Let’s turn again to measurements and
the dates that exactly correspond thereto, and see what
is revealed. Resuming the measures, and still at the
scale of an inch per month, we come to the north edge
of the Granite Leaf here on the date of July 20, 1919.
Does that date mean anything to you?”
“Yes. For one thing that was the date upon which
the peace-treaty that ended the World War was signed
by the participating powers at Versailles.”
And you have put your finger directly upon the
sver, Miss Durant,” Lewis enthused. “But you do
how a peace-treaty could be a stone upon
U
which might break the head, huh Well the
light of further study I do. The pact was only called
a peace-treaty. In absolute reality it was a war-treaty.
The nations which had triumphed over the Central
Powers, although at a frightfully dear cost, were full
of extreme rancor towards their erstwhile enemies. The
victors, by means of the treaty practically destroyed
58
their foes. The vanquished, being helpless, were com­
pelled to accept the so-called peace. Although the
Fulfillment of the Master’s 'Vision
potion was a bitter one the Central Powers were
obliged to swallow it. The peace then was an instru­
ment of force applied to a vanquished foe. Instead of
ending the W ar it merely delayed the day of final
reckoning. Rather than being a peace the treaty is one
of the greatest breeders of war that this world has ever
known. And from that treaty will surely come, as in­
dicated in the King’s Chamber which we shall visit
later, another war far worse than the last one in its
destructiveness, a war which will almost wipe out what
we call civilization. The treaty was futile, utterly so,
hence this Stone of Futility upon which humanity may
break its head. Not only did the great architect know
that there was to be a W orld W ar in the Twentieth
Century, and the exact length of it, as well as the dates
of its outbreak and of its close, but he also knew, as
proved here, that the so-called peace-treaty which
would terminate it, historically speaking, would in
reality not be a peace at all but rather a hotbed for
germinating another, a longer, and a more disastrous
war at a later date.”
Lewis’ pessimism was infectious because of the pro­
found feeling he put into it. To Polly he seemed to be
bearing upon his brawny shoulders, which were now
drooped, the weight of all the miseries of the world.
Somehow Polly thought of Jesus standing again on the
Mount of Olives overlooking Jerusalem, voicing His
heartbreak, as quoted in St. Luke 13:34. “Surely,”
she finally said, “there must be some hope for mankind,
Mr. Lewis. Is there not some way that another and
a greater war than the recent one may be avoided ?”
“Your answer is written a little farther along here in
this Great Pyramid,” he said. “We shall find it a little
later. Yes, the greatest of wars, one which is yet to
come, the Armageddon of the Bible, could be avoided,
59
the Pyramid teaches; but it won’t be because the world
is not yet willing to pay the price of eliminating it
beforehand. But for the moment let’s forget that, and
study this Ante-Chamber proper for a bit. After the
Stone of Futility, then what? W hat do you make of
Perhaps you are not so gloomy in
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
this room D o c
your philosophy as I am
U
u
To me, Jack,” Travers said in great seriousness
that is hardly the point just now. M y philosophy
probably, is just as pessimistic as yours. But I do noi
allow my emotions to run riot with me like you do
After all, you know, I am your personal phys
)
well your friend; and I brought you
this trip to give you a rest. You
here
standing
the bar now, remember, fighting the cause of some
accused person whom you know to be innocent; so why
take the matter so much to heart? You must be more
impersonal about it, especially in its reactions upon you.
So I shall talk now, and show you the
being coldly analytical and utt
study of this marvel of marvels it
ly impersonal
O.K., Jim,” Lewis answered with a forced smile
I assure you that for the minute at least I shall jus
listen.
“ Well, to me, Jack, this Ante-Chamber represents
perfectly what I know it to be, the period of the Truce
in Chaos promised us by Jesus before He left this
earth. Looking ahead down the ages, He saw what
was to come, saw it plainly and with great sorrow. He
said that in the Time of the End the earth would be
visited by a tribulation greater than the world had ever
known; and that except intercession were made with
the Father there should be no flesh left. But He said
that intercession would be made by Him, for the sake
of the Elect, and that as a result there would be a
break, a letup, in the chaos.”
“Doctor,” Polly asked, “are you not referring to
n
r
that passage in Matthew 24:22 where Jesus said : 4Ex­
cept those days shall be shortened, there shall no flesh
I be saved: but for the Elect’s sake those days shall be
t shortened?’ ”
“That’s it exactly, Miss Durant. Thank you. Please
note that the W ar began in 1914, ended in 1918, and
that this Ante-Chamber ends, too, in 1928. But after
a bit we shall see that beyond this Ante-Chamber is yet
another Low Passage that does not end until 1936.
) All this means what? That if this Ante-Chamber were
not put in here between the two great woes, for the last
Low Passage that lies ahead there signifies another
woe, the earth’s period of chaos would have continued
unbrokenly from 1914 until 1936, twenty-two years of
f constant tribulation. Do you, does anyone in fact,
think that mankind could have withstood twenty-two
| years of the troubles we bore during the W orld W ar?
I Absolutely not; certainly in that event there should
i have been no flesh left on earth.”
“But who are the Elect, Doctor? Are the Elect the
ones who have learned to attune their minds with the
Great Universal Parent Mind, and who move along in
IF conformity to Its Laws ? Are they the ones who as a
consequence of their recognized relationship with the
| Father Mind will come out of this Ante-Chamber,
and go forward in peace and happiness through the
troublesome times that lie ahead? Is that right?”
“That’s the answer I make of it,” Travers said.
4 “And you can ditto that for me,” remarked Lewis.
“Shall we leave the period of the Truce in Chaos now,
» and see what awaits us further along?”
Fulfillment of the Master’s Vision
6
1
CHAPTER VII
pupreme pow er O ver Death
and the ©rave
h e y lined up near the dark, low passage that
opened in the south wall of the Ante-Chamber.
One of the guides was again in front; and he
warned them that again they must stoop very low, or
crawl, and for a greater distance than in the W ar Pas­
sage. Polly Durant was immediately behind the guide.
As she started to stoop beneath the low stone, only
forty-three inches above the floor, she said: “Let us
remember as we come here that only those who know
God will get through this low place/*
“Right you are,” Lewis answered. “Let’s get our
minds in sensitive attunement.” There was an expres­
sion of deeper feeling written on his face as he looked
at Polly than one might have expected after so brief an
acquaintanceship. To be sure there had been minutes
of communion of soul with soul, time which could
never be counted in terms of the clock. It was a mat­
ter of two souls meeting and recognizing each other;
and only conventionality kept them from now express­
ing more definitely their attunement. The Doctor
touched Lewis lightly on the arm, and smiled know­
ingly as Jack gave him a searching gaze.
Beneath the low stone the party now slowly moved,
and for a much greater distance than when beneath the
other one. Whereas the other bore had been only a
little more than four feet long, the present one was
almost eight and one-half feet. The distance covered.
63
each arose at a word from the guide, and together they
now stood in the magnificently beautiful King’s Cham­
ber. Throwing the beams of their lights about the
walls they saw that the wonderful rose-pink granite, of
which the whole Chamber was made, reflected the
shafts until the walls seemed to glow with the rosy
light of a beautiful dawn. So full of the great beauty
of the room were they for a minute that no one spoke.
Then the Doctor, standing at Polly’s side, breathed
softly: “Truly this is the Paradise that it was built to
represent.” For answer Polly only smiled. But she
looked at Lewis rather than Travers. Yes, Jim,
Jack murmured with great depth of feeling as he smiled
back at Polly, “this exquisite Chamber really is Para­
dise.” Unconsciously Lewis moved a step nearer Polly,
and stood very close to her. Mere discussion could no
longer hold out against a growing inclination within
him. His whispered words broke through the dam of
reticence, and Polly heard him ask: “Can you see your­
self in these mirror-polished walls of rosy light as I
see you ?”
Without evidence of surprise Polly turned to look
frankly into his eyes as she said: “I wish that I might
see myself here and now as I long so much to be.”
The wise Doctor appeared to know nothing of what
was transpiring. Together with the two guides he was
patiently examining the open, lidless coffer which rested
on the floor nearby. He now called the attention of
the others to it. Tapping it lightly, almost reverently,
with his steel knife, he showed how the granite of the
coffer walls rang with a mellowness like that of a bell.
“Isn’t that beautiful music?” he asked. “And you can
sit here on the edge to rest, Miss Durant, if you wish.
What a crime,” he added as he pointed to a spot where
a great piece had been broken or chipped out of a corner
or the coffer, “that some unappreciative, despicable
souvenir-hunter has been let in here to chisel off and
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
64
carry away chips from this beautiful stone which is
such a glowing symbol of immortality.”
I “No more death,” Lewis said, “for those who are
■ able to keep their eyes and ears and hearts stayed on
God until they reach this spot in the evolution of man­
kind. That is the promise of the empty coffer; and it
is a condition that soon shall come. Just think, in this
wonderful, scientific Bible in Stone we find the history
of all souls, written in mathematics and symbolism,
I from the first movement of Spirit in matter and in man
until the time of man’s triumphant entry into the con-
J sciousness of eternal, joyous life.”
‘‘Wonderful indeed,” murmured Polly.
‘Really glorious,” said the Doctor.
.J^cwls rose to his feet, and slowly walked to the far
side of the great Chamber. In a moment Polly also
j arose and took a deep breath. “How sweet and cool
and fresh the air is in this rose-tinted hall,” she said.
Naturally, Miss Durant,” the Doctor said. “Here
you are in Paradise, you know; here is written the story
Millennial Age. It seems to me that a visit to
I iftf wonderfully complicated, and yet simple edifice
| would convince the most skeptical soul that ever lived
j that its purpose is to point the way to absolute freedom
f for the human soul.”
“And that is salvation, true salvation,” remarked
Polly.
“This monument,” Lewis said, “has convinced some
o f the scientists who have come here to study it.”
“ T h a t ’s true,” P o lly answered. “ It is reported o f
one o f them who is now a very devout man that he
came here a hard-boiled agnostic, and that he stayed
and studied until he also was convinced that the whole
Pyram id is a message direct from G od, the One, E ver-
Present, Creative Intelligence, to man, H is highest
work. A s I stand here in this sacred spot m y mind is
filled with wonder. W ill the human family, for in-
v
Supreme Power O ver D eath and the G rave
65
stance, let itself profit fro m this personal letter which I
is written in the m ost certain lan gu age o f mathematics I
and in the m ost enduring fo rm , ston e? .W ill humanity I
read the m essage and abide by it as being one fro m !
G o d w ho loves us a lw a y s ? W ill all o f us from today!
fo rw ard let the sim ple teach in g o f Jesu s find a resting!
place in our mind and h eart until w e finally understand!
with H im and rejoice ? T o m e the burning question is :I
just, how m ay one proceed to acquire the Christ-Con-1
sciousness?”
Both the D o cto r and L e w is thought the question
over fo r a minute b efo re the la tte r an sw ered: “ P er-1
sonally it seems to me that the Christ-Consciousness is
a feeling, an absolute conviction, o f ou r one-ness with
all o f L ife , an abiding belief so deeply rooted that no
circumstance or condition could tear it loose.”
“ Y es, I know, M r . L e w is. B u t if one does not now
have that assurance, how w ould one proceed to get it?”
“ I would suggest study, th at one think and think and
think again. T h en try constantly to put w hat little
conviction we gather in that w a y into practice by refus­
ing to let our attention w an d er fro m the goal our
hearts and minds w ere aim ing at. I w ould study and
think until my whole soul w as saturated w ith the ideas
of G od’ s willingness to operate through me as H is own
idea, my individual m ind?”
“ W ould that,” asked the D o cto r, “ bring one a heal­
ing of— say, B righ t’s disease?”
“ Such would not be m y intention, D o c, not m y con­
scious intention at least. M y w hole purpose would be
to train my mind to find the F ath er within me, that
All-Loving, Alw ays-U nderstanding, Responsive Power
which could and would give me an answ er say to a
complicated problem in engineering, or a point in law,
say a knotty problem I hath never encountered before’
or even heard of. But as I think about the matter
trustfully, certain that the Father will reveal the answer
I 66
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid I
to me, the solution would appear on the mirror of my
mind which with my will I have steadily held up to
Him.”
“But,” persisted T ravers, “still you m ght have
Bright’s disease.”
“Not on your life, Doc, after you have reached that
state of consciousness. Then the disease that one might
have had in the beginning o f their desire to know G J
and not simply about God, the attainment of that c
<r».
sciousness would automatically cleanse the whole bodi
and it would be vibrant with perfect health.”
“The art then, Jack, in the case I mention, would be
to utterly forget the disease by keeping the mind sta\ cd
on Him at all times and under all circumstances? Could
this mental discipline be accomplished by a well-de­
veloped will ? W ould the displacement of the disea sc
of any disease, be gradual I w onder?”
“ I am sure, Doc, that you have encountered more
than one such case in your wide practice.”
“ Surely. A ll physicians have. But they do not
always understand in what way the change came about ”
“Then you feel, M r. Lewis,” asked Polly, “ that the
whole thing is to form the mental habit of always look*
ing within one’s own Divine, Intelligent Self for even
answer to every problem?”
“Yes, Miss Durant.”
“ But I do not think particularly, Jack,” Travers
argued, “ that that form of training the mind neces­
sarily built this Pyramid.”
“ Meaning just what, D oc?”
“Well, this abstract study is a little deep for a prac­
tical mind like mine. I am not sure just what I d<i
mean, rather just how to put what I mean.”
“ Doc, what I am trying to get at is this. I mean
that the man, or men, thn mind, or minds, who built
this Pyramid, or any other enduring thing, must seek
the Fountain of Intelligent Life for Its own sake, just
Supreme Power Over Death and the Grave
67
to know what it is and not for the purpose of perform­
ing a cure, or to obtain release from the bondage of I
poverty. In other words, does not the establishmentof
the Christ-Consciousness within one depend upon one’s
first establishing deep down within one’s self a desire
to know God for the sake of knowing? It seems to me
one’s purpose must be a single-track one. Don’t you
think so? And when this habit of thought is once
firmly formed and really established I feel sure that
the ideas which fit our every need, whatever it is, just
come to us, and we awake to the realization that just
because we have sought and found the Father within
the ways and means for the fulfillment of our desires
come to us along with the ideas themselves.”
“I still can not be sure, Jack, that I gather what you
mean. W hy does one so often, when really trying to
do one’s best, yield to the temptation to be the worst?”
“You know the answer to that one, Doc.”
“No, really I don’t think that I do.”
“Why did you do what you did not intend to do that
time; is that it, Doc?” Lewis laughed. “Why, that’s
easy. Because at the last moment before doing it you
really could hot think of anything better to do. Hon­
estly, that is your right answer, Doc.”
“Shallwe go down now?” intruded one of the guides.
“Oh, not yet,” Travers said. “Let us have time to
thrash this thing out first.”
Polly asked: “Would your remedy, M r. Lewis, be
to build up habits of thought so strong that nothing,
no surprise action on the part of someone, could shake
you loose?”
“That’s it. When your thoughts have been dili­
gently trained let a surprise emergency appear and your
whole conception of God is right there instantly. Noth­
ing can force a negative reaction from you, try as it
may to lasso you. The word habit, of course, is a bit
confusing, probably because, as James shows, the word
The R om ance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
68
Supreme Power Over Death and tlye Orat e
habit is usually employed in connection with Sa.i hV*■
like the drink habit, and so on. Forming good hibt?%
seems at first to really require much more n**cr.‘i n
than making bad ones. Y et if one will steadily build
the habits of thought one desires to live by, rehear**
them often, and use every opportunity to utilize them
resolutely, one will soon find that he has self-* m ir .
ever-present. The thoughts we want have then really
taken root in the brain and entire nervous system, ar-.d
the good that you do you do even more readily than
ever you did the evil that you would not do. But just
now I am sensing a suggestion from somewhere that 1
should stop the habit, a bad one, o f talking too much/’
“Perhaps,” said Polly, laughing, “the suggest!* n s
coming from one o f the guides. A s fo r m yself 1 am
greatly interested in all that you have been saying.”
“Maybe,” the D octor said, “ we have gotten too fa r
away from the subject we w ere studying, which I be­
lieve is the G reat Pyram id, and not the power of good
and bad habits. L et’s get back w here we were. W h at
do you say?”
“But where were we, D oc?” Lewis asked. “ If you
know off hand you beat m e.”
“W e were discussing im m ortality, w ere we not? Yes.
that’s it. Then I ’ll start the conversation in that direc­
tion again by saying that on Septem ber 19, 19 3 6 , I
should like to be right here in this wonderful King’s
Chamber again. Do you think that the human family
will actually realize by then that they are at last, a f t e r
centuries and centuries of failure to attain that coveted
goal, on the road to the point where the whole human
race may really have eternal life, here on this earth, in
this body?”
“Well, the unfailing prophet who built this Bible in
Stone,” said Lewis, “teaches plainly that such will be
the case, not probably for all of the human family by
1936, but for the first of them by that time, and actu*
69
ally for all by 2001. At the time that we come from
under the last Low Passage into this Chamber, Sep.
tember 19, 1936, we are then in the Holy of Holies,
the sanctuary of those who love Him. As for myself
I believe that the near approach of immortality for
men, as indicated here, is implicitly true.”
“And,” asked Polly, “wars, disease, death and sor­
row can never enter here?”
“Not for those persons who enter this Chamber,
meaning spiritually, of course. They shall escape from
all such things through their joy in living in close con­
tact with God in deeds as well as in thoughts. For such
as enter here there will be the beginning of the certainty
of immortality. Here they begin their triumphant
march to victory over the old arch-enemy, death.”
“But,” Travers queried, “shall we realize where we
are headed? Or shall we simply, as the Rubiyat says,
‘Trust the potter that made you; he’s a good fellow;
he knows?’ ”
“You are getting close to bed-rock, Doc, in your last
question. That’s it, I think. If we simply and really
do our very best at all times as we go along, we shall
make the grade all right. Do the thing at hand to the
very best of our ability; live our highest ideals every
minute, also to the best of our ability; and then the
Potter will supply everything to make a complete and
perfect expression of Life.”
“I beg your pardon, gentlemen,” Polly said, “but
would you think me a hopeless materialist if I were to
intimate that the inner man who lives in me is making
a valiant struggle for recognition just now?”
The two men laughed; the guides smiled. Travers
glanced at his watch, and said: “Why, no wonder,
Miss Durant 1 Would you believe it? Ten minutes of
two o’clock. Power of suggestion, I suppose, I am
very hungry, too. And we really should go over the
I ,I I 70
The Rom ance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
outside of the Pyramid, and climb to the top of it.
j before returning to C airo.”
I “Is there any place nearer than C airo,” Lewis asked
f the guides, “where one might get a morsel of food?”
• “Sometimes,” one of them answered, but there was
I not much o^encouragement in his voice. “ Sometimes
l some of the natives camp outside for three hours or
j so around noon with a fair luncheon, especially when
I they know that several people are visiting here when
the notion comes to prepare some food for a little
, profit. There may be something to eat outside today;
| someone may know that we shall come out of here
hungry.”
I “Hungry?” Polly repeated with emphasis. “ Yes,
1 in every sense of the w ord.”
All involuntarily moved tow ards the low entrance to
I the King’s Chamber. T here each turned to look upon
the beautiful large room again, and, single-file, they
went into the low passage. Following one of the
guides, Lewis went in first. Reaching back with his
hand, he said to P olly: “ It might help you through
here if you will give me your hand.” She was happy
f to extend her small hand to him. Through the dark
bore they crept; in the Ante-Cham ber they paused just
long enough to glance over all o f it again; then through
? the next low passage which m arked the W orld W ar
period they continued. F or the whole o f the distance
I roily and Lewis kept their hands clasped. A t the
) Great Step Lewis descended first, and crooking his
I long, sinewy arm, invited Polly to be lifted down by
him. She accepted graciously, and he handed her down
v with ease. Still hand in hand, the two started on down
the Grand Gallery, more than ISO feet of slippery
footing. Doctor T ravers smiled to himself as he fol­
lowed; evidently the two ahead were utterly forget ful
of his existence, for the time being at least.
Voices other than their own sounded down the Gal-
Supreme Power O ver Death and the Grave
71
lery. Soon the descending group m et another party!
of four and a guide, on their way up the Gallery.
Among them was the German couple who had accom-
panied Polly out from Cairo. Lewis’ guide said some-
thing in Egyptian to the one conducting the ascending
group, and received a reply in the same tongue. The
former then said in English: “As you Americans say,
we are in luck. Ahmed says that food is ready out-
sid eI”
“That is joyful news, thank you,” Lewis answered
jubilantly. “Who said that we’d have to go to Cairo
for lunch ?”
“Und I can say,” shouted the German man, who had
overheard the guide’s remark, “that the meal iss goot!
I know; I have tried it !”
“Thank you, too, friend,” Lewis replied. “Now we
have double assurance.”
The Romance and Prophecies of the G reat PyramidI
72
CHAPTER VIII
dlimbingto thejgum
m
it
of Q
Q
Isd
o
m
L
o o k in g back at the entrance to the G reat P y ra ­
mid from which they now em erged, L e w is sa id :
J “ I should like to turn right around, and do it
all over again. W o u ld you mind, M iss D u ra n t?”
Polly laughed and s a id : “ N o t until after I have had
an agreeable understanding with m y inner man, M r .
Lewis; and I believe that I should prefer to climb to
the top, going all over the outside, before going within
again. W ou ld that suit you as w e ll?”
M iss D urant w as the first to see a wisp o f smoke
curling up from a portable camp stove which w as sta­
tioned near where their camels were herded, the stove
also attached to a camel which supplied the motive-
power. A native came towards the party, samples o f
his wares extended in front o f him, their warm and
appealing fragrance reaching the nostrils o f the hungry
group. Polly nodded to him, and motioned vigorously
for him to come to them. Lew is made doubly sure by
shouting to the white-clad native to come on, and to
hurry.
“ Y ou see, M iss D urant,” Lew is said, “ the message
that you sent into the U niversal was captured by this
native cook, and all o f us are saved from starvation.
Please be my guest, and you, too, Doc, to a perfect
luncheon, served right here on this sacred ground in
the shadow o f the G reat Pyram id.”
“ Thank you, I shall be happy to accept,” Polly
rep lied .
73
“And that goes fo r me, too, Ja c k ,” T ra ve rs said.
The native was now at hand. E a ch o f the three
sampled his food as he indicated by fluent signs that he
was ready to serve a meal to the p arty in his brightly-
colored lean-to near his stove, the sides o f which were
rolled up to admit the air and the top o f which made a
welcome shade in which all could sit as they dined.
Soon all three o f the party sat down upon the ground
beneath the tent, laughing happily about the absence of
chairs or stools. W hile the m eal w as in no sense a
banquet prepared after the A m erican fashion, it was
savory in its w ay and sufficient to satisfy the appetites
that had been clamoring fo r attention.
Following the meal the three sat w here they were a
while, leisurely smoking cigarettes. D octor Travers
began to humorously soliloquize on how he w as ever
going to “ negotiate” the outside o f the huge Pyramid
to its top. Indicating the rather ample proportions of
his waistline, he laughed and said: “ Y o u see, I carry
quite a bit of excess baggage here. A n d in the time
allotted us before we start to climb, I h ardly see how
I can scale myself down to your lithe fram e, Lewis.
You rascal, this is one time at least that I sincerely
envy you. And besides I have eaten too much the past
few minutes. Oh me, oh my. But, by golly, Jack , you
can’t laugh at me that way. I ’ll be with you when we
reach the top, and while you puff and blow, I ’ll be as
much at ease as if sitting in the stands at the Polo
Grounds watching a good game. T h e best method of
assault on those impregnable ram parts there, which
seem to loom up like Gibraltar, would be this, I think,
Jack. See if you agree. One of the guides will lead
the w ay; M iss Durant will follow him, you right in
her w ake; then I will come along, followed by the other
le
le
in
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
guide. In that w ay I will have both you and a gui
above me to pull and tug on my dead wejght,
guide below to me astern.
and t
other Then if I,
74
I
f
addition to all o f that, scratch and d ig in w ith both m y
hands and toes, I ’ll m ake the g ra d e . Is it not s o ? "
“In that fashion, D o c, yo u ’ ll com e th ro u gh w ith fly­
ing colors,” L ew is laughed.
The group rested fo r an hour b e fo re un dertaking
the ascent o f the outside o f the P yra m id , lau gh in g
and talking m errily like a sm all p a rty on a h o lid ay
picnic. In the file outlined b y the D o c to r b efo reh an d
they stood at the base fo r a m inute, each ca re fu lly
scanning the route the guide indicated th at th ey w ould
follow in scaling the g re a t structure. T r a v e r s glanced
at Polly, who now stood lookin g off into the distance
with a far-aw ay expression o f d ream y m editation. “ A
penny, no a dollar, fo r yo u r thoughts, M is s D u r a n t,"
he said.
Climbing to the Sum m it o f W isdom
Polly was startled ; but she sm iled and an sw ered :
I “Oh, I w as m erely m aking a m ental com panion o f the
I remarkable peace and quiet o f this sacred place w here
there is every evidence o f ageless repose, and co m p ar­
ing it with C h icago w here, regretab ly, there is alw ays
i far too much evidence o f haste. T h e architect o f this
complete lesson in L ife w hich w e are studying here
} surely planted w ell in this spot the seeds o f eternal
■ growth which spring from the fertile soil o f silence
and perfect repose. T h is is a v e ry great contrast with
( Chicago with its aw fu l noise and hurry. Is that thought
! worth a dollar, or m erely the penny that you first
j offered?”
) “ E asily a dollar, and especially if you w ill tell me
what you think causes the curse o f h u rry.”
“ D o you think m y opinion on that subject w orth y o f
w that sum, realizing as you must that I have spent prac­
tically all o f m y life in the atm osphere o f haste that is
C hicago?”
“ T h a t very fact, M iss D urant, causes you to be all
the more competent in giving a splendid answ er.”
“ Perhaps it does, D octor. W e ll, m y idea o f hurry
is that it means certain m aladjustm ent. T h e mind that I
hurries feels sure that it has m ade a mistake in som e!
form , or else it regrets its undertaking and wishes to I
dispose o f it quickly. T h a t is the w a y it seem s to me; I
and therein lies the evil o f h aste.” I
M r. Lew is had finished his conversation with the I
guides in time to listen attentively to the latter part I
of the exchange o f thoughts between his two compan-1
ions. “ O ld man hurry, h u h ?” he said. “ H e is the
Devil. I f a person is properly adjusted to his sur- I
roundings and opportunities, and realizes keenly his I
true relation to the outer w orld, he can easily carry
what others think are great burdens, and indulge in
almost endless activities, without any trace o f agitation
or haste, or so much as the loss o f an hour’ s sleep. It
seems certain to me, fo r instance, that our great Presi­
dent, Franklin D . Roosevelt, is just such a man. W hat
say you?”
“ A greed to be the very sam e,” D o cto r Travers
answered stoutly.
“ T o use your own w ords,” said M iss D urant, “ I
answer ditto to all of that.”
Turning to Polly, Lew is asked: “ N o w that we have
settled that question with finality, are w e ready to
mount to the top o f this venerable old mountain of
wisdom ?”
“ I am ready and eager,” Polly smiled.
“ Ready and fit are the words fo r m e,” T ravers
boomed.
Lew is appeared very thoughtful as he and the guide
assisted M iss Durant up the first step. In his mind he
was certain of one thing; haste should not lift its head
once in undertaking this task o f climbing the Great
Pyramid. Polly was atop the first terrace; Lew is then
climbed up; and he and the guide on the stone beside
him, assisted by the guide below, soon had D octor
T ravers on the ledge with them. W ith that efficiency
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid I
76
A
f
\
I
r
r
i
)
I
Climbing tothe Summit of ’Wisdom
born of laboring w ithout h urry the party
w
bich is . . . c
scaledthe terraced sides of the twentieth tier of stones
before pausing for a rest. F irst looking down the slope
tonote the distance they had m ade, and then turning
their glances upward to determ ine how much of the
building’s incline there w as yet to clim b, they w ere
silent a minute before P o lly rem ark ed : “ If m y heart
were not so firmly set upon seeing the N ile V alley
from the top of this great height, and on stepping
upon the same stones which the w onderful artisan s of
the Shepherd Kings put into place w ith such am azin g
science, I doubt if I w ould quite have the courage to
attempt this feat. But a definite and positive inten­
tion, or purpose, w ith a lure beyond alw ays beckoning
one onward, can m ake any rugged climb smooth
and easy.”
Why, you are doing splendidly, M iss D uran t,”
Lewis encouraged her glow ingly. “ I n fact, you are a
perfect mountaineer, and shall m ake it in great style.
My sole w orry on this trip is poor, old, fat D oc,” he
laughed. “You w ill get to w itness on this climb some
of the miseries I have patiently borne for years with
him. W e go to the A dirondacks, or C atskills, alm ost
every summer; and in just two or three days of hiking
up there,” he goaded pleasantly, “ Doc w ears out a
half-dozen good alpenstocks and as m any pairs of
shoes, as w ell as adding years to m y age in helping
him along, even in the easy places.”
“Do you, as a school teacher, M iss D urant, know
our Am erican slan g?” T rav ers asked. “ If you do, my
answer to Jack is : Oh yeah ? Sez you 1”
On up the side the p arty went, w ith very few periods
of rest, during which the two men continued their ex­
change of laughing taunts. W hen about h alf w ay up,
Lewis once irked the Doctor a little ; and as they con­
tinued T ravers surprised his friend by assuming the
lead position before Lew is was aw are of his intent; and
7
7
from there onward the D octor, to P o lly ’s apparent de-
light, steadfastly clung to his com m anding post, next
to the forw ard guide being the first to place a foot upon
the flat crest o f the huge edifice. T h e y all sat down
upon, or leaned against, a few o f the large stones which
line the rim o f the flat platform , some twenty feet
square, that is the top o f the P yram id, the apex stone
which once brought its crown up to a sharp point being
absent in this day, if in fact it ever w ere put in place.
“ W ell,” T ravers crowed in trium ph, “ with me set­
ting the pace for the last h a lf w e m ade it, and in record
time the guide says, in spite o f the fa ct that I had to
spend half my time coming to the rescue o f m y invalid
friend, Jack. L e t me test your pulse and respiration,
boy,” he teased. “ I ’m w orried about you. I should
hate to feel that I had been foolish in letting you under­
take this hazard. I f you should pass out on me, I
would have a devil o f a time finding another gullible
patient like you that I could im plicitly depend upon to
m&et my office rent every year.”
“ So that’ s all I mean to you, h u h ?” L e w is parried.
“ A fte r all these years I am just now finding out that
you are a D octor Jekyl and M r . H yd e. But he who
laughs last laughs best, they say. Ju st w ait, M r . Hyde,
until I get back to N ew Y o rk , and put through fo r you,
and win of course, that whale o f a suit you had me file
for you against that mammoth holding com pany on
some of your blasted, old defaulted bonds. T h e bill
that I will render you then, and sue you fo r if you don’t
come right across, will meet my office rent, and buy and
maintain that yacht I have always dream ed of, for the
rest of my life; and, Doc, I am going to live forever,
mind you, for immortality is coming to us mortals
soon, says this unfailing prophet 1”
Polly’ s laughter rang m errily; the inscrutable guides
smiled. “ M r. Lew is,” Polly asked, “ when you get that
yacht will you invite me to one of your parties aboard
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
!
i '
.
1
1
1
1 7
8
—that Doctor T ravers is to p ay fo r? I am sure that
I should enjoy a cruise on yo ur dream ship very
much indeed.”
“Of course, M iss D urant,” L ew is replied. N or was
his tone one of an idle jest. H e continued w ith deep
feeling. “T hat’s the picture I have had in mind for
hours today.”
“Aw, shucks,” T rav ers scoffed, “let’s change the
subject. It’s obvious th at I sh all not be invited to that
party! I have been looking m y clothes over just now;
there is not a rent in them , nor a spot on them. But
look at yours, Jack. One knee of your trousers is all
agape; a button is m issing at your belt-line; and your
whole appearance is th at of a m echanic after coming
out from under a greasy car th at he has been w orking
on for two hours. H ow did you get up here anyw ay?
By crawling?”
“In climbing to the pinnacle of wisdom , Doc,” Lewis
answered seriously, “one should have no thought
of clothing.”
44 A T /• • .
Nor of muscles, or breath, m y friend,” Polly added.
“It is worth any price, however great. N ’est ce p as?”
It was not that M iss D urant felt fatigued; all sense
of pressure, little that she had been aw are of it any­
where in the ascent, was gone. She now stood upon a
large stone, and looked about eagerly. A sense of
exhiliration surged through her whole being; her
thoughts for the moment were far aw ay. She pond­
ered whether her being on this lofty summit, 485 feet
above the foundation line, together with such a wide
expanse of shim mering view of desert and of the fertile
valley wherein civilization was cradled for centuries,
had suggested to her fruitful im agination her present
thoughts concerning the great totality of L ife, of
which she felt her individual life to be so much a part,
a perfect part of the great whole. “G reat Father of
W isdom,” she breathed to herself, “hold this indi-
Climbing to the Summit of Wisdom
79
T h e R om ance and Prophecies o f the Great Py
idual expression o f U n iversality that I am in
rami■ j
and sound relationship with T h y se lf Let
have depth o f th
ght
m
e
f T h y Intelli
gence; and give me alw ays the jo ys o f breadth of
est in, knowledge of, and relationship with the whole
o f L ife . Ju st now I feel that I know the totality of all
things is involved ery minutest manifestation
l
L ife , just as perfection o f detail is involved in the <
pleteness and splendor o f the whole. R ight now I
that if I can hold m y conscious mind in touch with the
totality o f things I shall be, and alw ays remain, within
the law o f upright and sound livin g.” Another moment
Polly remained silent; and then she said aloud: ‘
but this air is w on derfu l!”
Ah
ii
T h e sound o f her voice brought L ew is to her side.
I have been studying your face,” he said in a note of
great admiration. “ T o me it seemed that surely your
thoughts were being shepherded in green pastures, be
side still waters. i*— =*a
ii
W ere they
*5
Oh, how can I put into mere w ords w hat I feel? I
can only say that at this moment I feel in complete and
absolute unison with all o f L ife , and that m y whole
beingthrills to that awareness
“ T h at indudes me, does it not?” Lew is asked hun­
grily, the light o f intensity dwelling in his eyes.
“ Y es,” Polly answered without embarrassment. “ Do
you believe, M r. Lewis, that U niversality becomes clear
to us only through the perfection o f the individual?”
Lewis smiled as he realized how adroitly Polly had
shifted the sail and still had kept it set to the breeze.
But instead o f speaking further o f that just now, he
asked: “ Can one ever really know his own country until
he knows the world? Can one ever really know him­
self until he is able to expand himself into all of
humanity
“ Adm irably put, M r. Lew is,” Polly lauded him.
A s for myself 1 am sure that never before in my whole
ii
W
t, M I Polly lauded h
80
1
lifehave I felt as well acquainted with my true self
as I do right now. It seems to me to-day as if I have
certainly touched the greatest of all the arts, the art of
rightliving. Have you ever listened attentively to the
different strains of music made b y the p la y of the wind
through various kinds of trees? There is one strain
am
ong the soughing pines, another among the rustling
oaks, and still a different one, just as beautiful as the
others, among the stately, swaying elms. That rhyth­
m
icquality in nature, that softly-flowing, liquid move­
m
ent seems to me to embrace all of Life; and once
one’s conscious mind is fully attuned to it one feels a
thrill of great joy surge through one, perfeedy en rap-
tori with the harmoniously-flowing stream of gently
forceful Intelligent Life. And when thus in at-one-
ent with It, all things are really possible unto one”
Climbing to the Su m m it o f W isdom
81
CHAPTER IX
J^appiness
B
e f o r e Lewis could voice the thoughts which
stirred so deeply within him Doctor Travers
called: “Do come over here, and look at the
shadow this mountain casts. Speaking in the same
vein that Miss Durant has just used, and which I could
not help overhearing, I can say that just now, I, too,
feel that I am most sensitively attuned to the same
power which sustains the whole of nature. And let
me tell you, folks,” he enthused, “it’s one grand and
glorious feeling 1”
Lewis was loath to break the hold of the spell which
he felt enmeshing Polly and himself. She, too, seemed
inclined the same way. Addressing Lewis, the Doctor
added: “I beg your pardon, old boy. But looking at
this shadow will not break the witchery of the spell;
on the other hand, it will intensify it. Just look at it!
I have thought several times before that this Pyramid
was a very large building, especially when climbing
up here a bit ago; but, look at this shadow—why, it
seems to fill all out of doors! I wish that my wife
could see this sight; she loves light and shadow
so much.”
A great sadness overspread the Doctor’s counte­
nance as Polly, unaware of any of Travers’ personal
life, asked him: “Did she not come with you from
New York, Doctor?”
“No,” he answered mournfully. “I regret very
much to say that our tastes are not generally in accord.”
“I am sorry,” Polly said with deep sincerity. “Please
8
3
forgive me, Doctor. But do not tell me that your wife
misunderstands you.”
“No, I shall never say that, Miss Durant.” Doctor
Travers was very solemn. “No doubt the trouble is
that she understands me too well. But I do wish so
very, very much, that she would see what few strong
points I have rather than dwelling always on the many
weak ones.”
“May I say, Doctor, that ‘if we wish to be under­
stood, we must understand?’ ”
“Yes, I know,” Travers replied. “And if I may
quote also, I will say that ‘if we think our thought is
powerful, our thougnt is powerful.’ So, if I wish my
wife to understand, and God knows I do, then I must
always know that she does understand
“Troward again, I believe,” Polly remarked.
“Yes. Troward is wonderful. Try to live by that
great philosopher’s principles of Life, and all is well
with you.”
“I take it from your statements of this morning,
Miss Durant,” Lewis broke in, “and from what you
have said here this afternoon, that you know Trow­
ard well.”
“You mean the man, or his books, Mr. Lewis?”
Polly queried.
“Either, or both,” he replied.
“I study Troward’s books diligently,” said Polly,
“of course, because of their sterling worth to me per­
sonally. And I know his only personal pupil quite
well. I have been in her classes in Chicago, and nave
studied with her privately, too, although not nearly so
much as I hope to do some day, and soon. And I am
fast beginning to understand what has been taught me
through those sources. I am sure, for one thing, that
if we permit our attention to be held on misunderstand­
ing we get only misunderstanding. In other words, we
get from Life the things that we most habitually think
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
8
4
1
V
f
l
I
Happiness
about, and look for; and they come to u t in the forms
L ’ conceived them in our thoughts.
that we have -
“That is very tru e. M is s D u ra n t
frankly It a
admitted
difficult lesson to learn from prac­
ticein Life, but it is a true one, a very Would
you mind turning on still a little more light for us?
You see, Lewis and I have not had the advantage of
personal study with one who knows Troward thor­
oughly through having been his only personal pupil
for many months of intensive pursuit. We read for
ourselves, and discuss what we read among ourselves;
but no person, however intellectual he may be, can
grasp that great philosopher’s true thought from
merely reading his writings, or studying them, regard-
of how deeply. One may think that he knows, may
even bel himself to be an
water on Troward
into personal conta
uthority of the first
nly to discover, when he comes
with who really does under
stand him, that the reader has only skimmed the
and knows very little, if
Troward great works
ything, of the
But I am no authority on Troward, Doctor I
say few words, however, what I truly believe
be fully in line with his teachings. That is, that I
feel this
which cloth
if with
measu
:s all
fathomless Creative Energy
f nature with incomparable beauty,
has made
s ii witn a gorgeous garment, has made man master
f himself if he will be, has endowed man with the
qualities of initiative and selection, enabling him to
accept or reject whatever he will, Tnis, I believe, man
does through the constantly unfolding knowledge that
he is vitallv and inseverably related to a Living, In-
tellig
tally and inseverably related to a living, 11
S h i , m in d ! and draw therefrom just what he will
cd rooted in ground draws to itself
just as a se . atmosphere whatever is necessary
1 from the son _j — ------- -_* . - . 7
trom the s and perfect fulfillment, and which yet
for its comPiei 7
85
in no w ay infringes upon the sam e privilege of its
neighbor. T h u s does the acorn p rovid e the oak; and
side by side in the same plot o f earth you m ay see a
violet, a rose and a lily, also possibly som e com and
pumpkin vines. E a ch takes fro m the self-sam e soil
only what it needs to reproduce itself, w ithout infringe­
ment in any w ay upon the other. T h is w onderful privi­
lege o f the freedom o f selection m ust include man as
completely as it includes the things o f m an’s world,
and doubtless m ore so, due to m an ’s being endowed
with a higher degree o f intelligence.’ *
“ T h a t is surely splendid, M iss D u ra n t,” L ew is an­
swered. “ But getting aw ay from the m atter in the
abstract and getting down to the concrete, leaving the
thing in generalities and putting it into specific terms,
suppose I am longing fo r greater freedom , feeling that
it would mean fo r me greater happiness. T h e n what
would I d o? Ju st how would I p ro ceed ?”
“ It seems to me that in that case I should take a
short cut directly to m y goal, right into the heart of
the element o f happiness. M y pow ers o f intelligent
selection would guide my feelings and influence m y acts
accordingly. Happiness would then develop in me be­
cause it would see itself individualized in me, m anifest­
ing specifically in m y whole life.”
“ In other w ords,” T ra v e rs asked earnestly, “ you
would waste neither time nor strength in endeavoring
to take unto yourself anything that w as not directly
related to your happiness? Anything which your in­
dividual happiness could not assim ilate? D o you feel
that one m ay add to his knowledge o f happiness, or
anything else fo r that matter, without adding to his
power to he happy?”
“ E asily so, D o cto r; just as one m ay know a great
deal about G od, and still not really know G o d at all ”
“ T h an k you, M iss Durant. You have been very
kind. I am catching a faint gleam at last; and when I
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
86
t2
think about what you have so kindly given of
mrself I know that I shall find a shaft of genuine
Ip Happiness
Humiliation But undoubtedly I have tired you in my
^oemess to know more. Shall we descend now?”
“Thank you; but I am enjoying it up here aloft very
jiuch,” Polly said, “and growing, too. I should be
suitehappy to remain here until we have rounded out
That is. if
• folly this thought we are now discussing,
fouwould like. Shall we stay?”
Polly included Lewis in her inquiry by turning to-
firdshim. She found herself standing much closer to
jamthan she had realized.
'Barkis is willin’,” he said readily as he smiled down
j ather.
j | Same here,” Travers replied. “I find myself grow-
j sg also. It seems really quite wonderful to me how
I ^^dred spirits should have met here, and not
laveshied away from each other. We shall never lose
m
i
|sghtof each other for long again, shall we ? W hat do
Jack? Your mouth is open.”
first, Doc, I want to say ‘Amen’ to what you have
J t said. After that I am not so definite in my
ionghts. But I might remark that to me it seems that
ae may gather up a lot of junk in one’s mind, and
stakenly call it knowledge, when in reality it is only
1
*gue and meaningless generalizations. I, too, believe
jflatone may add vastly to his knowledge without add­
in
g one whit to his power, because, primarily, the
inowledge is not used. Such minds are much like some
Bouses that a person enters
famished with things gathered from all over the globe
ijan effort to make an interesting home. But the occu­
pants have overlooked the main essentials of a true
«me harmony, order and individual good taste. These
lobe*t r o t t e r s G
ften have a private museum that is well
Srth but they do not in any sense have a
tru
ehome
8
7
These houses have been
99
The Romance and Proph of Pyramid
Yes,
upon
“That’s right, Mr. Lewis,” Polly approved.
in their endeavor to have a happy home they rely_
_
things, forgetful of that outstanding truth that "love
and happiness come not by searching the far places of
the earth but by grow th fro m within ourselves. Hap­
piness can not be gathered by jumping frenziedly from
one place of interest, or amusement, to another;it must
be patiently assimilated and absorbed from the seed of
it deep within one’s own heart. Things, it is true,
may give one cause fo r happiness, but not the pure joy
itself. If one wishes true and ever-abiding happiness,
one should understand his own personality; one should
know his own type of mind, and accept for it only those
things which are vitally related to it; one should learn
how to gracefully reject as well as accept. In fact, I
think that rejection plays as important a part as accept­
ance in the art of selection as related to a fully rounded
and happy life.”
“By the Breath of the Most High, Jack,” Travers
enthused, “there is certainly a mouthful of wisdom for
you, and from one little woman it is remarkable!
Never in all my gleanings of books have I found in all
of them combined a dissertation on happiness that gave
me as much as she has said in just a few words.
Have you?”
“Never, Doc, really never! Honestly, Miss Durant,
you have just made some magnificent observations of
true happiness. I shall treasure them always. But,
may I draw you out still more on the subject, please?
Then your idea is that joy is developed within one’s
self and not contracted from the outside, say, as the
measles are?” ,
“Yes, that is it. To me it seems that any soul which
can conceive of happiness already has the germ of it
within. All he needs do then is to develop that seed
by the steady recognition of the fact that it is his. Ex­
pect it to grow and flourish as you would expect a seed
/ 88
4
1 if vou had p lan ted it in the p re p a re d soil.
rifidently expect th at seed g e rm o f h appin ess w ithin
ou to draw to itse lf fro m a n yw h e re and e ve ry­
where all that it requ ires to m a n ife st itse lf fu lly and
H appiness
n
completely. p H
“But,” T ra v e rs said , “ le t’ s d eal w ith a person, let s
say, who is narrow , lon ely, so rro w fu l, as a specific case.
Inthat example ju st h o w w o u ld you p ro ce e d ?”
“The whole purpose o f L i f e itse lf, in w h a te ve r form
it manifests itself, it seem s to m e, is th at o f enjoying
itself. Then the p erso n w h o m w e are citing now
would really think, and n o t ju st think that he thinks, if
h
e would consciously rela te his thought and feeling
with the w hole o f L i f e ra th e r than confining his every
thought to the m isery upon w hich he believes that he
has a m onopoly, if he w o u ld stop attaching so much
importance to his ow n sm all and stulted feelings, and
try, just really try, to realize exactly w ho he truly is,
af ° ' t l wou!d find all the jo ys o f life within his own
* ,. . ere *s little doubt that when one inw ardly sees
ony his im m ediate person al affairs, and the affairs o f
is small neighborhood, his life is narrow , warped,
limited, and usually v e ry unhappy. But even a faint
gimpse o f the g lo ry that is the U niversal gives per­
ception, and to him perception fast becomes concep­
tion; and if he w ould fo llo w that into its wider scope he
would soon be guided into that state o f real happiness
for which he had longed but had not yet known due
to the fact that he him self had stood in the way o f him-
self all o f the time. Once in possession o f the broad­
ened vision, his form er ideas would seem unreal and
absurd to him ; his sense o f proportion would be greatly
freshened and invigorated by the consciousness o f his
absolute relationship to the totality o f all things. I
sincerelv believe that all the joy L ife has to give ts
' with each one o f us, and ts ours merely fo r
eyer-pres Rut we must take it! Yes, just as we would
the taking- **
89
drink from a sweetly-flowing fountain of cool water if
we were thirsty. The water does not come to us; we
reach out and partake of it. So it is with the joy of
Life; it is ever-present, ours for the taking.”
“I believe I see now, Miss Durant, just what you
mean,” Lewis said. “Your idea is to go straight to
headquarters in your quest of happiness, or of anything
else you want, letting that inner source supply whatever
is needed for the completion of the manifestation.
When I first spoke of the matter it seemed to me that
a sense of freedom was all that would be required for
me. But now I know that is not all, thanks to your
most capable exposition. I wonder if both of you now
feel in this very air, for instance, the same sense of
exhilaration that I do. I seemed to have slipped en­
tirely out of my individual self directly into tne Uni­
versal. At this very moment I am fully in tune with
all of the happiness that my soul can possibly absorb;
and my gratitude for it is generously mixed with a feel­
ing of enthusiasm. Is that the way that you two feel? ’
Both agreed that they did; and Polly added to her
answer the question: “Who was it that once said:
‘Just to breathe is a beatitude’?”
“I do not know,” Lewis answered, “but, quoting
Doc’s expression, whoever it was he said a mouthful.”
His companions laughed, and Lewis smiled: “Well,
that’s the way I feel about it now at any rate. We
have so much air below us, perhaps, that we are able
to sense an inner freedom, much, I fancy, as the bird
does. ‘The bird is in the air; and the air is in the bird,’
one might say. Every element has its poetry; and the
rhythm of the air, I am sure, must be the wonderful
songof true liberty.”
<
?There you are, Miss Durant,” the Doctor re­
marked. “Jack, you see, has the liberty he asked you
for right here and now.” y
“He certainly has; and I hope that he is conscious
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
9
0
Happinest
4
1
/
}
jr
i
f
o f his freedom docs com e from the air below
andaround him j\s for me, it is not that alone which
gives
b HY,
such a sense of happy liberty
What
9
9
his chest, he queried
perhap
Lewis asked. Pointing his fing
* 1 44 A ___ _______i
Are we buting little,
Indeed you are,” Polly answered, with a slight em
phasis on the "you.
“Now just what I should like to figure out is this,'
Travers asked: “Exactly how did we, Jack and I, at
tract all this good fortune that we have had to-day
with especial referenc
“Why, that’s simpl
And you can’t fig
Miss Durant
Doc It’s not at all abstruse.
Making a mock gesture
of importance, Lewis said: “I shall condescend
form you Doc
Miss Durant
I myself attracted the charming
Why, you big humbug I” the Doctor snorted.
* deny the allegation, your honor,” Lewis replied.
And if you don’t believe what I havejust said, sup­
pose you tell us how yo# did the trick. One of us must
be responsible for the fact of Miss Durant’s be­
ing here.
a minute before you come to blows, gentle­
men,” Polly laughed. “Perhaps little I attracted both
of you here
No,99
Lewis answered, “that can hardly be; that
not rding rule. We were out here first; then
Why did it
you came along. How did it happen?
haoDen?” _ .
shall be very interested in knowing the
too, when you have found Pollv said Then I
shall
do now
always try to feel as I did this morning, and
91
very s a m e ? asked Lewis. “Why not stay
ght with us all the time and thereby avoid unneces-
The
sary
9 1
labor?
“That would be real joy, thank you. Perhaps I
shall. Who knows? Already we have started three
different times to descend from here, if I remember
correctly; but still we are lingering. So why not tarry
still a little longer? Before we leave, and while the
shadows are getting longer and longer, I, for one,
should like to know just how each one of us can abso­
lutely have, here and now, that elusive happiness which
we have been talking so much about, and which, I hope,
we have sensed to-day. After all, is that not what each
of us wishes most ?”
“Agreed,” Doctor Travers said. “If you like, I shall
go first. I know exactly why I am unhappy, or the
one reason why I am the most unhappy at least. I do
not want to bore you with family history, Miss Durant;
but, as I have said, my wife is not as happy as I should
like to see her, and that means I am affected with the
same malady. Now on this trip to this wonderful spot,
it would have made me very happy to have had her
with us, if she should have enjoyed coming. But-
Travers drew a long breath, and exhaled it with an
audible sigh. “W ell,” asked Polly, “are you not happy
to have her do whatever she most enjoys doing?”
“Oh, yes, of course,” he replied. But his demeanor
was in no wise convincing.
“After all,” Lewis offered, “it’s the same old story,
isn’t it? Each of us, it seems, feels that his or her
happiness depends entirely upon the thoughts, words,
acts of another, whereas happiness is only either
dwarfed or expanded by our mental reaction to what
goes on outside of us. The main reason that I have
never married, I suppose, is that I have never met a
woman whom it seemed to me would be, or probably
could be, happy with me as I am; and I have always
lacked either the inclination or the will to mould my
character to that of another. Selfish, isn’t it? And
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
92
Happiness
the one big hindrance to development of
all humans
selfishness is
jjjgpmeSpo asked, “one of you is unhappy because
m arried, at least to the wife he now has; and the
other is unhappy because he is not married. Is that
true, gentlemen, just what
he
the si
would
If that be
advise me to do to find happiness? If I
unmarried, I shall not have it: and if I marry
still I shall not ha\ So what? Heretofore when
most unhappy I have tried going for a walk alone in
the deep woods, provided, of course, there was time
for it. Shall I continue
me. So shall I
doing that? It works always
re, and become a hermit who
shall spend the rest of life in the forest? To the woods
I go when I am fatigued, or lonely, or sad. There in
the solitude with only trees, great trees, for companions
I immediately feel a healing balm. The pleasure that
comes to me from being among the
always-royal welcome so
with their
ery keen and real that
were it not so holy a communion it might be called
almost Soon I feel as if I had found myself
after a long period of wandering; or had come to my
normal self after a siege of delirium. In the woods it
seems easy for me to realize my oneness with all of
life. I lose all sense of separation, and come into in­
telligent relation with all the different forms of life
about me: fo me solitude for think
ing, and I find it in its very purest essence in the heart
of the woods.”
U
Heaven forbid,” Lewis answered, “that shall
have to continue that all of your life. Don t the noises
of the woods, such as they are, disturb and dis-
fcrjicfc you __
“Not at all, if they are normal to the woods. They
soothe my nerves which the city discords have irritated
ril they are jangled; they rest and refresh my soul.
T h e re alone do I find the true measure of myself, and
93
set myself anew to perform the work I am called upon
to do. I look at myself in my mental mirror, and see
myself happy. I partake freely of the living waters,
my whole feeling is refreshed. I realize that my ca­
pacity for happiness is exactly measured by my capacity
to incorporate it into my character. In other words, at
such times I feel that I am happiness. Then I am able
to return to my human family and give to them, not my
simple acquirements, but my real self.”
“But,” asked the Doctor, “where can a Chicago
school teacher find woods? In Lincoln Park?”
“Yes,” Polly said. “But there in the heart of the
city there is little of real solitude. But in Michigan
and Wisconsin there is plenty of forest. And they are
easily accessible for a week-end trip. To me it seems
that each person really owes it to their soul develop­
ment to take some time for solitude, to make a place in
their life for seclusion and silence in order that each
may learn the better how to take from the elements of
Life those things for which one has an affinity, letting
all other things alone. It seems to me that the Principle
of Intelligent Life Evergrowing in me, the God in me,
often says: ‘Come alone unto Me, and get better ac­
quainted with Me. Realize M e; believe in Me. Once
you become really acquainted with M e you shall see
Me everywhere in everything. Give Me, Life and
Love, your attention always; and I will keep out of
the garden of your mind the weeds of anxiety, fear,
discouragement, criticism. Do this, and I, Joyous Life,
will show myself unto you, in you and through you as
happiness unlimited.’ ”
“You surely do have a wonderful philosophy, little
lady,” Lewis said earnestly. “And by that I do not
mean just a creed which you idealize but do not live
by. From the intensity of the feelings that you have
put into your words I know that you do live the very
truths which you have just uttered. But let’s suppose
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
9
4
1' . Happiness
fnr a moment that one can not go to the forest at will.
L that one does have access^ to a lovely garden of
flowers. Could one adjust one’s self to that situation,
and glean from a quiet stroll among the blossoms
the same truths that one gathers so abundantly in
the woods?”
“I can not answer from my own experience there.
Butin that event I should surely try to realize that the
Same Power which pervades the solitude of the forest
manifests Itself in another form in the rose as Beauty
and Fragrance; and certainly these stimulate adm ira­
tion and joy in the beholder. For me it might be diffi­
cult at first to adjust myself to the changed environ­
ment because I find in the great, towering, symmetrical
trees such wonderful bosom companions. Yet surely
the same Power which sees Itself as fragrance and ex­
quisite beauty in the rose also admires Itself through
self-recognition in man. If one would recognize that
self-contemplation is the action of the One and Only
Creative Life upon Itself, then surely one would realize
that all Life needs in order to bring all of its joys into
more and more perfect manifestation in its individual
action (you), is your attention to it, and to have faith
m it. Cultivate Life, and Life will grow and blossom
into perfection in you.”
“Thank you, M iss Durant,” Lewis said with appre­
ciation. “I think that I get your meaning now. And
now, as much as I dislike to recognize the thought,
shall we be getting back to Cairo? One more look at
the long, immense shadows of this man-made moun­
tain, and I suppose it is then down we go.”
“It would seem 'that such is the case, Jack,” Travers
“I see that our camels are waiting
said ruefully.
°The party arose and made ready for the descent of
the long slope of the Pyramid. Aside, Lewis asked his
friend: “ H ave you understood, Doc, M iss Durant’s
fine lesson in metaphysics ?”
“ N ot entirely, Jack. But there is nothing like plant­
ing the seed, knowing that it will surely grow. And she
surely planted the seed deep in my soul.”
Lewis followed the lead guide down the first step
of the slope. Turning around, he held out his hands
to Polly. Without restraint she resigned her whole
weight to his strong arms as he lifted her into them.
“ Do you feel afraid?” he asked.
“ Not in the least,” Polly assured him; and the
brightness in her eyes as she smiled told her feeling
even more truly than her words. “ G od ’s spirit of pro­
tection in you is just as reliable as it is in me. H e will
never fail me; I trust H im .”
Lewis did not attempt to reply. H e was content to
exult silently in the glow of happiness which surged
through him. A fter a moment he called to Travers:
“ These are tall steps in places, huh, Jim ? ”
“ I find them fine for me, Jack .”
Little more was said by any of the party all the way
down to the foundation. T h e descent was quite fast
and uninterrupted. Safely on the ground again, Lewis
walked with Polly to where her camel awaited her.
“ W e have surely taken our time here in and on this
wonderful prophet’s abode, and have exchanged our
thoughts quite freely. But we were never strangers,
were we? I hope that you have enjoyed it as much as
I, Miss Durant.”
“ You certainly have not seemed at all strange, or
even a new acquaintance to me,” Polly answered. “ And
I have enjoyed your company thoroughly.”
Lewis glowed with pleasure. But before he could
respond, some Arab beggars accosted them. Both Lewis
and Polly gave them a coin. Helping Polly to mount
her camel, Lewis hurried over to his beast, and with
Travers was soon alongside her again. One of the
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
96
Happiness
guides suggested that the camels would move along
better, and with better behavior, if the party went in
single file, his animal leading the way. In the order
b
edirected the line was soon formed, the three tourists
immediately behind the lead guide, the other guides
bringing up the rear. They had gone but a short dis­
tance when Lewis called out: “Oh, beautiful country,
I and the air that covers you, please convey to Miss
Durant an invitation to dine this evening in Cairo
w
ithme.”
Polly laugh came back to him clear and sweet;
her one word, “Accepted
r
Travers shouted
together
U
And so do I All laughed
Further conversation was not easy. The camels were
anxious to get to their evening meal, and moved along
quite rapidly, the discomfort of riding them increasing
with their lumbering speed.
t
CHAPTER X
R
om
anceandVisionsof theflight
h e n Polly Durant stood in front of the mirror
her hotel room, she was very surprised to
note that her hair was very much disarranged,
her nose agleam from lack of powder together with
exposure to the desert sun, and her face somewhat
smudged. For a fleeting moment, in fact, she was
almost horrified: and then she smiled to herself. €(
Oh,
well,” she mused, “when a woman goes all day, or
nearly so, without even once looking into her vanity
mirror, she is either careless or—interested.” It was
not difficult for Polly to answer which of the two was
the case with her; and she happily hummed a song as
she quickly dressed for dinner. There was, she real­
ized, only time to dress, and little time for introspec­
tion. Nevertheless, dressing was more or less of a
habit, and she could both dress and reflect upon the
day’s events simultaneously. Her every reaction to the
happenings of the day gave her a pleasant sensation.
even the memory of climbing up the long, steep side of
the Bible in Stone. In fact, it had been a perfect day
for her, the outstanding one of her life, she was sure.
With a grace that is quite uncommon to women
Polly was dressed, and in the hotel lobby ready to
keep her appointment right on the minute which had
been designated. Doctor Travers met her; and in just
a minute Lewis came forward with a bouquet of ex­
quisite flowers. He presented them to Polly with a
warm, broad smile as the Doctor said: “I told him to
99
bring them, M iss D u ran t.” A m erry twinkle was in
T ravers’ eyes.
“ You are both most kind, and v e ry thoughtful,”
Polly answered. “ T h e y are so beautiful. M a y I take
them to m y room, and put them in w ater, before we
go in to dinner?”
The two men acquiesced readily. P o lly went at once
to her room. A s she put them in a jug-like vase full
o f water, she selected one flower fro m the bouquet, a
gorgeous lotus, she w as quite sure. T r y in g its color
against her gown, she found that it blended p erfectly;
it seemed the one thing which w as needed to make
her costume complete. In a m om ent it w as pinned se­
curely to her garment.
M iss Durant returned to the lobby. T h e two men
awaited her, and ushered her into the dining room . It
was almost eight o’clock, yet the room w as full of
diners. Fortunately D octor T ra v e rs had reserved a
table before going out to the G re a t P yram id that morn­
ing, a table which commanded a view o f the room.
Polly exclaimed her joy as she saw another lovely bou­
quet on a low stand close by where she w as seated, and
her bright blue eyes swept the room w ith its so ft lights
and men and women in evening clothes. A ll o f the
guests seemed happy, a few quite gay, as they laughed
and talked in what Polly recognized as at least a half-
dozen languages. “ W h at a beautiful and interesting
picture,” she remarked. “ I had hardly fancied that
there would be so many tourists here, at this season
at least.”
“ Th ey are always here, at all seasons,” the Doctor
said. “ And, Jack, do you realize that you and I are
the most fortunate men in the whole room ?” H is eyes
returning to M iss Durant, he continued: “ W h ile Jack
and I are always good company fo r each other, we
both are keenly aware o f the pleasure and honor you
bring to us by dining with us.”
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
1 0 0
Polly sm iled h er g re a t pleasure, and as her eyes
sought those o f L e w is to include him in h er thanks she
felt a flush quickly o v e rsp re a d her face because o f the
light she had su rp rised in his countenance. T u rn in g
again to the D o cto r, she s a id : “ Y o u can perhaps im ag­
ine how h ap p y it causes m e to be to h ave com pany at
dinner. I m ust h ave unconsciously invoked the ap­
proval o f m y lucky sta r w hen I decided to visit the
Great P yram id to d a y .”
“ T h a t’s exactly w h a t I think, to o ,” L e w is said en­
thusiastically, “ except p ro b ab ly in a different fo rm .”
“ N o w th at w e are a w a y fro m the Pyram id, and here
on fam iliar gro u n d ,” T r a v e r s asked, “ ju st w hat is your
present reaction to our visit, M iss D u ra n t?”
N e v e r,” she said, “ h ave I spent such interesting,
delightful and fleeting hours. I still feel a bit dazed,
r Pp£ht say. O f one thing I am sure, however. M y
initiation into the m ysteries w ill be developed to its
fullness. It m ay not bring me a pyram id in fo rm ; but
it will bring m e a pyram id o f wisdom and happiness.”
H e r g a ze again shifted in the direction o f Lew is,
and w as held fo r a fe w moments by his own. T h e
conversation d rifted into general channels as the din­
ner w as served, and w as held there throughout the
hour, travel, foods, reminiscences holding the attention
most. T h e dinner over, the three went into the lobby;
and w ithout noticing where their steps led they soon
stood at the edge o f a beautiful garden. T h e air was
redolent with the perfum e o f m any flowers. A full
moon rode serenely low in the east. T h e moonlit gar­
den held a lure that was irresistible. Extending his
arm to M iss Durant, Lew is smiled and then looked at
the garden, inclining his head in that direction. Polly
smiled and nodded her approval. Doctor Travers went
through his pockets thoroughly, and asked that he
please be excused to buy some cigars, although' Polly i
saw the tips o f three H avanas in the breast-pocket o f I
Romance and Visions of the N ight
his coat. T ravers’ sly wink told his friend that he
should see him later in the lobby.
For an hour Polly and Lew is wandered through the
oriental garden, each attuned very closely to the other.
A t one point where they had to step across a small
brook a foot or so wide Lew is took her hand to assist
her; and when on the other side he did not make any
attempt to release her. N either did she try to with­
draw her hand. Their hands were still interlocked
when they returned to the edge o f the lobby. Only
then did they seem aware o f the existence o f any people
other than themselves. D octor T ra v e rs saw them en­
ter, and glowed with pleasure as he observed the warm
light in Lewis’ eyes and the slight flush which showed
in the face of M iss Durant. T ra v e rs hesitated to
move from his chair, did not wish to intrude himself.
But plainly they were seeking him ; their eyes swept
the lobby, from chair to chair. Ju st as they saw him
he arose and approached them. F o r a minute^ the
three talked together; then Polly said: “ G ood night.
You have given me a most delightful day and evening,
both of you.”
She extended her hand to D octor T ra v e rs, then to
Lewis. The latter did not simply press it. A gain he
held it, gently yet quite firmly, as he looked deep into
her eyes and said: “ Good night, M iss D urant. M y
heart sings because of the joy you have brought me to­
day. And I do hope that you may give us the pleasure
of coming with us on a trip up the N ile tom orrow—
by boat this time, not by camel. W o n ’t you ? W e shall
be gone only for the day, shall return here again
at evening.”
Lewis released Polly’s hand as the D octor cordially
repeated the invitation, and spoke of the happiness that
she could bring them by going. Polly accepted, again
bade each good night, and went to her room.
Whereas, each, Polly, Lewis and T ravers, prior to
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
102
Romance and Visions of the N ight
t
h
e
irarrival in C and th P out to the G reat
to other points o f
it they
So
mid, had planned to spend but tw o o r three day
K a t vicinity b efore g o in g on
r t hardly before th ey w ere aw are o f it thev had
i ncut a fortnight togeth er in the locality o f C ai
[congenial and happy h ad been their first tw o days they
fthought it quite im possible th at any m ore days spent
inthe company o f each other could prove as interesting
and pleasant. Y e t it seem ed to all o f them that each
jay demanded yet another to geth er; and although at
first they did not quite see how their itinerary could be
flexible, they, w ithout inconvenience to themselves.
m
ade no plans beyond C T h e decision to lengthen
their stay first cam e about on the trip up the N ile the
second day. T h e y had cruised along ely and
/
f
happily, going continuously southw ard up the river and
I s
[°P?ln& ^ ere and there at some point o f interest, until
the day was m ore than three-fourths spent. Realizing
then that a return to C airo the same day would mean
alate arrival there, they had agreed am ong themselves,
in answer to the suggestion from D octor Travers, to
continue on up the river the follow ing day to the First
cataract, and then return in the same leisurely fashion
to the city.
The group w as sitting on the steamer-deck the sec­
ond day on the river, their conversation devoted to
various things o f interest to them. F o r a moment their
had stopped and each was silently thinking when
Polly suddenly asked: “ D octor Travers, where do
suppose the builders o f the G reat Pyramid got the
build such a great monument It
must have c
the m aterial
many fortunes Just much
came from a
dred miles ’
( t U U l u v i v m.% * m . t j £5 — ----------
distance of three hundred to four hun-
rrL,_ Doctor appeared startled; he was surprised
1 ne - • , J -------J~— * — £— from the
that Polly
10 3
beauty that surrounded them to so prosaic a thought.
But soon he replied: “ T h ey were very, very rich,
those Shepherd Kings, you know, M iss D urant.”
“ Yes, D oc,” Lewis interposed, “ but in all probability
they were not rich enough at the time o f conceiving the
idea to erect so large a structure, and o f such magnifi­
cent materials. Yours is a very practical thought, Miss
Durant, one which I have never seen in print, nor
heard anyone discuss, with reference to the subject of
the Pyramid. The source o f the money fo r the build­
ing really is a very important factor. It is true that
the architect probably captured his ideas relative to the
plan of the building, and the materials to use, directly
from the Great Universal M ind. But the wherewithal
for the construction, where was that to come from ?”
The three friends were very thoughtful as they sat
in their luxurious chairs and floated down the beautiful
river. It was some little time before any o f them
spoke. Then without turning his head Lew is contin­
ued: “ M any a man, you know, has captured wonderful
ideas, but could not finance them. Just how did they
get the money to build the Pyram id?” T h e question
came almost as if Lewis were thinking aloud.
After another brief pause Polly answered: “ A s I
understand the law of demand and supply from the
teachings of Jesus and Trow ard, the solution comes
from one tuning one’s mind in with what one really
wants; and then the Great, Intelligent, Creative, Uni­
versal Mind supplies ideas, which, if used, soon mani­
fests into its outward form the thing one wishes.”
“ But,” asked the Doctor, “ how can one be sure when
one’s mind is really in tune with all supply?”
“ By the feeling,” Polly replied.
“ It seems to me,” Lewis said, “ that the one great
thing necessary is for one to realize always that every
physical thing has its origin in its corresponding spirit­
ual idea. The realization of that fact starts a corre-
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
104
I spending quality o f C re a tiv e P o w e r flow ing in the
I particular direction one w ishes, and by all the law s o f
I subjective mind it w ill n ever stop short o f a perfect
1 manifestation. W h e n one really realizes that simple
| fact, ‘then the w hole C reatio n around us is a standing
evidence that the starting poin t o f all things is in
thought-images, o r id eas; fo r no other action than the
formation o f such im ages can be conceived o f Spirit
prior to its m anifestation in physical fo rm .’ Y o u r hat,
your clothes, yo u r house and your money, all had their
origin in thought. E v e n the quality and the pattern o f
the fabric o f w hich yo u r clothing is made had its be­
ginning in thought. Y o u see th a t?”
‘Yes, w e surely do understand that,” came from
Polly in a clear voice. “ A n d I take it that you feel as
Trow ard says, ‘that our thought force form s a power­
Rom ance and Visions of theNight
ful m agnet which attracts corresponding forces until
the thought really m anifests itself in form .’ So then
it is one’s m ental attitude which brings to us, or keeps
from us, not alone happiness and health but all out­
ward things as w ell.”
( R ight again,” exclaimed Lew is with a bright smile.
The mind undoubtedly is the instrument through
which the U n iversal Creative Intelligence specializes
Itself; and it does not lose any o f Its Intelligence, or
Its C reative Pow er, as it takes particular form in the
human mind. Jesus surely knew that great L a w o f
M ind, and said in effect that all things are possible
unto M e , because the Father (T h e G reat Creative E n ­
ergy o f Subjective L ife ) in M e, H e doeth the w ork."
“ Granted the absolute truth o f what you say, Ja ck ,”
T ravers replied, “ I still ask just how can one tune in
with that Power and be sure o f an answer? I mean
iust what mental and physical attitudes are necessary?”
J “ If I may be pardoned for using a personal experi­
ence D oc,” Lewis said, “perhaps I can explain better.
After T was graduated from college, and admitted to
99
i
the bar for only a short time, my father passed awa
very suddenly and I became the head of the fam ib
The fact that I had a diploma hanging on the wa
and had a comfortable office did not attract clients, an
I needed money very much. I sat in my office alone on
evening almost in despair. I finally began repeatin
over and over ‘Father, glorify thy son.’ After a whil
my answer to the prayer came. It was as if some pe:
son spoke these words into my ear in a voice of music
‘Son, glorify thy Father!* Immediately everythin
within me seemed to be hushed, stilled, and I realize
that I was so far within that every material thougl
was shut out. I actually felt the touch of God’s Pre
ence there, just as clearly and surely as one knows froi
the sense of physical touch whether a thing is smoot
or rough. From that time forward I began to eari
estly study the interaction between the individual min
and the Universal Source of it. It seems to me that th
quickest and surest method of contacting the Unlimite
Supply is to first find a spiritual prototype for ever
existing thing.”
“Just a minute, Jack. What do you mean by that?
“Well, the prototype for anything is the fundament*
purpose of the thing. The prototype for an automc
bile is progress; for these nice chairs in which we at
sitting now the prototype is com fort, or rest; fc
money, to my mind, the prototype is substance. TI
underlying substance of all things finds expression i
the symbol of money. I thought about these things i
this way at the time I was speaking of a minute ag
And as I thought and meditated upon the fact that tl
All-Powerful Intelligence of God fills all space, and
present in its entire totality at any point in space th
I chose to fix my thought upon (I found that in Tr
ward’s books), it soon became evident to me that 1
my thought I created a nucleus in my mind which act'
as a mighty magnet, drawing to me ideas, which if
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyrami
ROltUM t Visions of the Night
ed up, the corresponding physical thing soon ap
Kd'in'nry life. M y degrees alone could not draw
fnts to me; but the powerful magnet of the nucleus,
hichmy thoughts had formed, did do so. In a very
and in an unusual way, I had my first worth-
my client being a large railway company. I
n
short
ffOuld like
‘Why you big
known
thegold of Ophir as the
theseyears, and did not tell me
Lewis lai
you about it more fully some time
rascal,” Doctor Travers said, “you
f attracting ‘gold as dust and
secret
of the brook’ for
ghed, and looking at Polly, said
-. . « : “You
ouldsee the joke in that remark, too, Miss Durant, if
youknew how rich my doctor is, and mostly my good
money.”
All three laughed together. But P olly did not wish
■ ■ “ Did
a mental picture of how much money you
the subject at this point, so she asked
you make
wanted, Mr. Lewis
Yes he plied. “ A fte r I had made my mental
contact with the Universal through meditation, then I
made my mental picture by actually counting the money
that I wished have just as I would if my material
t
banker had handed it to me through the cashier
dow I t is now ouite clear to me that the
a re-
between the individual and Universal M ind is
ciprocal action, never-failing, and based upon the laws
or subjective mind. I f one will give that thought care­
ful consideration, it will not be difficult to prove what
Jesus told u s : A sk believina that you have and
shall h a ve * W hen you have in your mind as a mental
fact ju st w hat you wish to come into manifestation in
form and absolutely believe in the unfailing respon­
siveness o f the Pow er o f God, then you know that you
ask and receive, that you knock and the doors of
dom and supply are opened to you. | I |
m akes the great mistake o f trying to figure out where
1 0 7
A s
the supply is coming from . O bjectively a person can
not know where the supply is com ing from . So let the
All-Creative Pow er supply its own w ays and means. It
knows the ropes. Y o u r job is to sit m entally tight and
know that all the substance you can w an t is even then
trying to get through to you. Y o u w ill soon see the
light break. ‘G od works in m ysterious w ays H is won­
ders to perform .’ F o r m yself I am sure that G od is
an Ever-Present, N ever-Failin g, Responsive, Creative
Power who gives us more than w e dare ask when we
approach H im according to H is im m utable L a w s .”
“ I know that you are right, Ja c k ,” the Doctor
praised. “ I had no idea that such things w ere in you,
my boy. I wonder if I m ay tell you and M iss Durant
a wonderful dream that I had ju st a fte r I got back
from the W ar. M y mind w as v e ry greatly troubled
over many things, and one night I had a wonderful
dream. Shall I tell you about it? O r shall we give
our whole attention to this beautiful scenery now, and
let me tell the dream some other tim e?”
Lewis nodded vigorous support o f P o lly as she
answered: “ This is just the time and the place, D oc­
tor, to hear an interesting dream. D o tell us about it
now, please.”
“ W ell,” Travers said thoughtfully, “ in order for
you to understand the dream I must first give it a brief
prelude; so I shall begin with that, and then continue
right into the dream. Let me say now that had I
understood the proper interpretation o f that dream , as
being my direct answer from the G reat Parent M ind
to the call of my bewildered brain for peace, had I
realized that the dream was a sublime explanation of
the difference between seeing L ife through consciously
looking at it through the glasses of the Divine Spark
within and seeing it through the physical senses only,
my life would nave been spared much sorrow and
limitation. But today I understand, as I look back
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
108
the incident, I understand as never before that
God does work in mysterious ways His wonders
0perform l Just think, for example, how wonderful
I?really is for the three of us to be here today with me
privileged to tell you what to me was the first of God's
wonders in my personal life. But now to get into the
prelude and the dream proper. In the World War I
served as a Colonel, not in the Medical Corps as you
might assume, but rather with the Field Artillery. I
wanted line action, and not to serve as a surgeon in a
base hospital somewhere. And I surely got all the
action that I craved 1 Heaven forbid that I ever ex­
perience more of it 1 Very often in making our prep­
arations for an attack, preceded by a terrific bombard-
first have the aviators fly over, and far
behind, the German lines to secure photographs of the
jwhole terrain. As a rule the flyers were successful in
Jgetting pictures of part of the territory we wished to
|study, and sometimes they would have exceptionally
.good luck and get all of the territory on the films, all
1 .we Wlshed. W e would have the films developed,
tt a^* together like a jig-saw puzzle, and then
.study the pictures through very powerful glasses. In
Ispite of very clever camouflaging on the part of the
1enemy, we could often pick out on the photographs
important battery positions, ammunition dumps, com­
munication trenches of great value to us, and things of
Ithat nature. Then we knew the location of the spots
tobomb from the air, or to concentrate the fire of our
longer-range guns upon in order to inflict the greatest
] possible damage upon Heinie when we loosed our fury
’ upon him.
f “ X cam e th rou gh all o f that hell in pretty good shape,
thank h eaven ; and, as I said a minute ago, I w as very
l troubled one night about the difficulty I was experienc-
. • readjusting m yself to peace time surroundings
“ 8 1 ursuits. I went to bed greatly distressed; and
Romance and Visions of the Night
109
sometime in the night I dreamed that once again I was
studying a composite photograph o f the enemies’ lines
and the territory back o f their lines. M y glasses re­
vealed the most horrible picture o f desolation that I
had ever seen. Everywhere in the picture that I looked
there was only utter ruination, the ground all about was
scarred and pock-marked with shellholes until it looked
as sterile and desolate as the worst desert one could
conceive of, as bad as a highly magnified sector of the
lifeless moon. The stark remains of individual houses,
and of small villages, all demolished and charred from
fires, were scattered over the landscape; nor could I
scarcely tell which plots had once been forest and which
had been fertile fields of grain. It was all worse, really,
than the ‘abomination of the desolation,’ inconceivably
horrible. I was sickened with the picture, yet I kept
searching with the glass very dutifully. Then suddenly
as I looked the figures of many men seemed to move
across the scene. I looked again and again, rubbing
my eyes between times in unbelief o f what my sight
reported to my mind. But the men were there, many
men, young men in the flower of life, two lines of them
moving grimly towards each other. In a minute they
met, what part of them had not already fallen to earth
writhing in the agonies of their death struggles. A t
length it seemed that not a man remained standing; all
were dying frightful deaths; yet none of them was able
to actually die. None lay still in death, but kept right
on suffering, writhing, cursing, screaming.
“ I could stand the hellish horror of the scene no
longer. I removed my eyes from the glasses, and
buried my head in my arms, retching awfully, ill almost
unto death it seemed to me, and praying desperately
for the horror to be removed from my presence. A l­
most at once I heard a voice speak close beside me as
if some person stood there and had leaned over me to
comfort me with his words. The voice, I ’m telling
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
110
friends, was sweeter far than any music I have
f t tL rd or ever hope to hear. It "said dulcetly:
‘Here; take my glasses and look at the picture through
them!’ In my dream I looked up, startled almost out
of my senses. Everything all about me was dark as
midnight, save just one thing. There beside me I saw
inprofile a beautiful head, the upper part of a body,
one arm and one hand, all in outline only, a contour
that glowed effulgent all over like an electric-sign of the
Neon-variety, a bluish-green outline. I admit that I
was terrified until I felt my heart would burst. But
quickly the vision beside me spoke again, saying: ‘It is
I. Be not afraid. I am God. Look at the picture
through my glasses!’ Still I hesitated; still I was ter­
rified; and additionally I did not wish to look upon that
field of awful horrors again. My every sense revolted
mightily at the thought of it; I sickened still more at
the gruesome prospect. But yet again the Figure be­
side me bade me look. I took the glasses from His
hand, and although the pitch darkness intervened be­
tween me and the photograph in front of me, I trained
the glasses upon the panorama. As I moved to do so,
my revulsive illness subsided completely, and forthwith.
Even in the darkness I could see the picture as clearly
as if it had been noonday. I was awe-stricken to see a
misty cloud move across the face of the scene, to give
way in just an instant to such a holy vision as I never
expect to see again, even in a rapturous dream.
“The scene was no longer a battlefield at all. In­
stead it was a great garden which was more beautiful
than Eden could possibly have been. The view was
that of Paradise itself! Great, towering, verdant trees
studded a lawn that was like a vast carpet of green
velvet. Fountains played their rainbow-colored streams
upon the scene. Flowers of every conceivable hue and
kind, and of gigantic size, grew in riotous profusion
almost everywhere. And again the figures of humans
111
Romance and Visions of the Night
r
The Romance and Vrobberies of the Cheat Pyramid
moved across the held. But what different people they
were I Name of God, what a glory I beheld 1 Phis
time the people were grouped in couples, in every in­
stance, without exception, a man and a woman, and I
saw mysell and my wife among them, not as we are
here on earth, but transfigured as were the others.
Their arms intertwined and about the waistline of the
other, the couples walked slowly and happily through
the garden in the cool of the evening. 'I he men were
superb specimens, great, strapping, handsome, young
fellows, the ladies also young, vital and as beau­
tiful as angels. The faces of all of them were aglow;
a halo encircled each head; and in their wonderful eyes
there shone a light of love such as 1 have never seen on
earth. I was utterly dumfounded, stricken speechless,
and unable to move, even to blink my eyes. I could
only keep on gazing, and marveling, and praising God
in silent adoration with all of my heart and souk I
tilled my whole being with the magnificent revelationl
And in that instant the Voice beside me, the Being
whom 1 had forgotten in my delight in the heavenly
scene, said to me: ‘Do you see, son? Through MY
glasses you see nothing but LOVEP **
Only profound silence greeted the sublime finish of
Doctor Travers’ dream. The three souls seemed fused
into one, and the one seemed aware of its presence in
the HolyofHolies. None seemed to dare speak lest the
beautiful spell be broken; any spoken word, whatever
it might have been, should have profaned the atmos­
phere of ineffable peace and sublimity.
\
112
CHAPTER XI
B
H H F efORB the river-tour was finished the party had
arranged for another up the valley by train as
far as Luxor, with way-stops to visit and exam-
| ine tne thirty-seven other Pyramids of Egypt. That
accomplished with great pleasure, other days were
i spent in visiting Alexandria; and in tracing the inva-
I s,0ns of Alexander and Napoleon across the land.
! Still more time was utilized in poring over whatever
records they could find and decipher correctly in the
joy of tracing for themselves the route of the Exodus
out of Egypt under Moses to the point where the
Israelites had crossed the Red Sea. During all of the
time Polly and Lewis grew constantly closer in their
contacts and ripening romance; nor was Doctor Trav­
ers in the least unhappy about it. On the other hand he
was genuinely pleased, and proved almost a genius in
the art of inventing excuses which would remove him
from the party for an hour or two at a time in order
that his companions might not be conscious of his
presence. When alone with Lewis at night Travers
never mentioned the ripening friendship or the former
with Miss Durant unless the subject were first men­
tioned to him, and then only to sincerely compliment
his friend upon the wisdom of his choice, and to
encourage him to pursue the matter more assiduously,
to “make hay with the charming Miss Durant while
the sun of your opportunity shines brilliantly.’*
All too soon the vacation ended for Polly, and the
hour when she must depart was at hand. On their
&
daily trips throughout the period in E g y p t it had
seemed to both Polly and Lewis that an understanding
existed and grew stronger each day; yet no words
directly to that effect had been spoken. In her heart
Polly never wondered just why Lewis did not voice
the words that would give her the opportunity to tell
him that she would be happy and honored to become
Mrs. Lewis. Each simply knew deep within themselves
that the All-Intelligence had influenced and guided
them to each other; the big question between them
had already been silently asked and as silently an­
swered within their hearts many times; and each
knew it was so. Never in her life had Polly felt so
much at-one with Life, with God, the Good. Never
had she known a time when she was more sure of
God’s guiding influence through her feelings, her
senses, her imagination, her intuition. She knew that
she was really in tune with the Infinite; and every­
thing responded perfectly to her depth of happy assur­
ance. Even now when the time of physical separation,
for a while, had come she did not really feel saddened.
She knew that she loved, and that in return she was
loved as sincerely and deeply. The “good-bye” that
they must now say she knew to simply be “au revoir.
Both men went with her as far as Alexandria where
she was to go aboard ship. Travers, continuing his
uncanny facility in making himself absent from them
at such times as he deemed best under the circum­
stances, went wandering around the port-city alone.
Returning to the hotel in time “to see Miss Durant
off,” he found the two awaiting him in the spacious
lobby. Together the three went to the docks; and
again the Doctor disappeared for a few minutes. He
came back to them just a minute or two before Polly
must walk up the gang-plank. The three went aboard.
Lewis, knowing that but little time remained for him
The Romance and Prophecies o f the Great Pyramid
114
tpresent, suddenly took Polly into his arms and kissed
her warmly, tenderly. The Doctor grinned broadly
as he asked: “Miss Durant, is there not something
that Jack should tell me ? He is a most secretive ruf­
fian; he has not told me a thing, you know. And I
am always a great stickler for doing the right thing
at the right time and in the right way.”
Polly laughed happily, and suggested that Travers
have a look about him and see the flowers, the fruits,
reading matter, as well as the numerous souvenir gifts
she had collected in her travels about Egypt with
Lewis. Then she added: “Doctor, if I were a bride
this minute, you could not be more right.”
For a moment Travers feigned great surprise, lift­
ing his eyebrows questioningly. Growing very serious
then, he enthused: “Miss Durant, it has been a very
great pleasure to have had you with us. And this
happy news which you now give me makes of the whole
thing a bright spot in my life which will remain with
me always. I wish for you with all of my heart and
soul only the greatest happiness. And when we are all
back in our native land I hope to have Mrs. Travers
meet you, and learn to love you as I do. Just as soon
j as Jack and I are alone, I shall quiz the gentleman
I more closely; and if he confesses what I know to be
true then my parting thought for you, my dear, is that
j God will bless you both always.”
A steward passed among the passengers and their
companions, snouting: “All visitors asnorel” Lewis
tenderly kissed Polly again, and as he and Travers went
I ashore she smiled after them with a half-serious, half-
happy expression. She did not linger on deck for a last
view of her fiance and friend; instead she went directly
to her stateroom. /There she found more flowers, and
a package which was very neatly wrapped and tied
prettily with ribbpn. She opened it at once. Her heart
crave a few extra, and violent, beats as she found within
I True Companionship
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyramid
for each day o f her and beneath the
velope a very beautiful Egyp tian Bracelet
put the latter <
the end of her
mmedi and tucked
She
beneath
There also an extra en­
velope filled with full sets o f the numerous kodak-pic­
tures which the group had taken on various occasions,
and these latter, she soon learned, were from Doctor
Travers. W ith the views he had enclosed a very
gracious note. Polly then busied herself arranging her
room. Calling a steward, she had some o f the flowers
transferred to her table. Soon the dinner-gong sounded,
and Polly dressed and went into the dining-salon. She
had been given a place at the C aptain’s table, at the
immediate left o f the commander. T h e Captain was
not present; but his second officer occupied the place
and kept the conversation running in perfect style. T o
Polly the ship semed full o f charm ing people; and she
marveled that she did not feel as much alone as she had
felt that she would. A fte r dinner P olly joined a group
in a few games o f bridge, danced twice with two o f the
officers, and retired to her room. L e w is’ first letter to
her was dated for today. Quickly she prepared to
retire; and as she awaited sleep she read the letter over
a number o f times, her heart thrilling to the message.
Polly awoke the following morning feeling very re­
freshed. Almost at once as she thought back over the
events of the past few days her mind and heart were
filled with joy and gratitude. A t the same time she was
conscious of a sense of wonder, perhaps a touch o f awe.
T o her it seemed as if everything her soul had longed
for had come to her out o f her act o f courageous faith
in doing happily the thing she had been most influenced
to do. It really had required an effort on her part, had
taken no little amount o f faith, to take what little
she had and go to E gyp t But thanks
Doctor T ravers and Lew is she now had more funds
left than she had anticipated, due to the fact that the
116
of them had consistently paid many of her small
Senses over the happy period of their association.
And the joy of having met John Lewis, and to love him
' as she did and to be loved by him! She had almost
I decided before leaving Chicago that there was not such
Jack in all the world. But now her heart
T rue Com panionship
a man
sang with joy as she knew that she was to marry
of the best of men. Her parents would be happy for
her that she had the promise of a good husband and a
lovely home of her own; her friends at school would
also rejoice with her.
But for the fact of Lewis’ letters, and some of the
reading matter that he had provided, Polly’s second
day aboard might have proved a little lonely and long;
but, thus equipped, she had enjoyed the day quite well.
That evening at dinner the Captain of the vessel was
present, and greeted her cordially. He asked if she
were comfortable and enjoying the voyage Upo
Polly’s assuring him that she was both, he smiled and
Then I am very happy. You see, Miss Durant,
said
you have been placed in my personal care for this voy
age an old friend of mine, and a new friend o f
yours, I believe, Doctor Travers of New York City.
I trust that it will not prove an unpleasant experience
for you
Polly looked at him seriously a moment before
answering: “Not at all, Captain, thank you. I feel
that it will be a very pleasant experience for me, since
Chicago school teachers are quite unaccustomed to be­
ing cared for by anyone. I hope that you will make due
allowances if I should become a real charge to you.”
All who heard Polly’s answer laughed with the Cap­
tain. It was obvious from her refined face and whole
demeanor of excellent character that she was merely
being courteous to the officer in exchange for his solici­
tude about her welfare. The captain then turned the
attention o f the other diners away from Polly by men-
i i 7 M | "•
tioning a very big and fine catch o f fish they had taken
aboard at their last stop. Some o f the fish were to be
served for dinner this evening, and he hoped all would
enjoy the treat since the catch was very choice. The
conversation drifted on happily through the meal, all
participating in it at some stage due to the gracious
and apt manner in which the commander drew each
into the circle by his initial remarks to them. A ll pres­
ent at the Captain’s table had their after-dinner coffee
in the salon upstairs where there were cards, some very
good music and dancing. Polly’s evening w as quite as
her last one; she danced twice with the commander,
played cards a bit, and talked for a longer time than
she thought with some ladies about her trip to the
Great Pyramid. It was eleven-thirty before she sought
her room and retired.
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
118
CHAPTER X ll
©ladflews of Six G
reeks
V
he days of the voyage sped by Soon
9
Durant was on the last lap of the trip
__from Newfoundland to New York, thence
train to Chicago. Her father was at the statior
meet her, her mother having remained at home since
some of Polly’s friends had gathered there to welcome
her. Polly greeted her father lovingly; and when they
were in his car alone she beamed upon him as she
showed him her exquisite bracelet. The expression on
her face told her parent the balance of the story more
powerfully than words could ever have done. He put
his arms around her in a loving embrace as he said:
You will tell mother and me all about it, won’t you,
dear? He, whoever he is, must be just so, you know,
in order to have our sweet girl.”
Polly knew her father thoroughly, and knew just
how to first proceed to warm the cockles of his doting
: “Well,
Dad, he is a Democrat and a thirty-second degree
Mason! How is that to begin with?”
He beamed happily and laughed heartily. “Fine,”
he boomed, “Fine I That is wonderful as far as it goes.
But there still must be much more. What is his name?
Where is he from ? What does he do?” The questions
came in rapid-fire, each following the other before
Polly had an opportunity
heart regarding her engagement. So she said
His name is John Lewis, Dad. He is from------.
Her father, in his enthusiasm, cut into Polly
99
answer Lewis, huh?” he asked Well, that a
good old American name. That’s good
119
“ Yes, and he is much more wonderful than the
name, Dad. H e is a lawyer, and has an office in N ew
York City.”
All the way home hardly any other topic o f con­
versation came up. Polly was eager to talk at length
about her fiance. She and her father had always been
the best of pals, and he proved a better one than ever
to her now. Just as they drew up in front o f the house
the father said: “ When will M om and I get to see him,
Polly? H ow soon is he coming to C h icago ?”
“ Oh, very soon,” Polly laughed. T h e car stopped.
Her mother was at the door of the automobile to greet
her fondly; and she saw two o f her friends on the
porch, smiling and waving to her. She kissed her
mother eagerly; and as they broke their embrace, Polly
slyly showed her the circlet on her wrist. “ M y engage­
ment bracelet, mother,” she said very softly. “ Does
that make you happy, dear?” F o r answer her mother
embraced her and kissed her again and again, the tears
gleaming in her beautiful, blue eyes.
Polly’s friends greeted her happily at the door, and
some within the living room. Greetings exchanged,
Polly asked to be excused in order that she might
change her clothing. H er friends insisted, however,
that she should not do so. “ Y ou see,” one o f them
said, “ we are all in our street-clothes. W e came like
this because, after your father and mother, we want
every minute of your time to hear about your wonder­
ful trip. School will open again pretty soon now, and
you will be too busy for us then.”
Polly agreed not to dress. Soon she had a chance
to speak to her mother, aside and under her breath.
Immediately she asked the one question which had been
burning within her. “ Is there any mail fo r me,
mother?” she whispered. “ From Europe, or A fr ic a ? ”
A happy light in her eyes, M rs. Durant smiled
broadly and held up three fingers to indicate the num-
■ Mi
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
120
ws of such letters on hand. Not for many months, if
1ever, had she seen her beloved daughter so full of joy
and animation. #
I Xhe party continued until quite late, the house ring­
ingwith laughter and gaiety. At times Polly went into
considerable detail about her trip, and its many won­
ders; but never did she once intimate that she had met
any man in whom she was the least interested. Her
, father and mother joined in the merrymaking also with
light hearts, the two of them proving a genial and
gracious host and hostess. At length the friends said
I their farewells and departed for their respective homes,
j One arm around his wife, and the other encircling his
| daughter, Polly’s father signified his wish that the child
tell them all about her engagement and her fiance. But
her mother came to the rescue; and stated that surely
Polly must be very tired. She should really retire now
in order that she might have a night of restful sleep.
She could tell them of her joys tomorrow; mother had
every confidence in her wonderful daughter, and in her
wisdom and judgment; the fiance was undoubtedly one
of the finest men in the nation. Mother could be con­
tent in that knowledge until Polly had enjoyed some
rest; tomorrow would do.
Kissing both of her parents goodnight, Polly went
to her room. There on her desk was her summer’s
collection of mail, neatly piled into a high stack. Polly
could not restrain a burst of low laughter when she
noted that the three letters from Jack were right on the
top of the heap, and in date-order. Her dear mother
possessed an uncanny intuition; and there was no doubt
in Polly’s mind that when mother had observed Lewis’
bold script on the envelopes she had known instantly
that her daughter would treasure those letters when
she arrived home, would be anxious to have them first
of all; hence they should be arranged at the top of her
mail) just as Polly now found them.
Glad News of Six Weeks
1 2 1
Although the hour was late, Polly decided that she
must read at least one of the letters before retiring.
She opened the first envelope eagerly. T h e letter was
written from Alexandria, and bore date o f the day
following her having embarked from that point. The
salutation was one of tender endearment; and the let­
ter, after telling of his joy and pride in his wonderful
Polly, told much of the general news and L e w is’ plans
for the near future. Travers and he had decided upon
quite a vacation while they were away from their busi­
ness ties; they were to tour parts o f Europe quite ex­
tensively now that they were so near; but they must not
stay away too long, of course, now that Lew is had
found his beloved Polly; they would surely be home be­
fore Christmas. H e hoped that they, Polly and he,
might spend Christmas together; in fact they just must
do so; any other course was unthinkable fo r h im ; and
he devoutly hoped that she felt the same about the m at­
ter. “ Could any human-being,” he wrote, “ if they
were acquainted with our wonderful experience, longer
doubt the existence and absolute responsiveness o f an
Ever-Loving, All-Intelligent Father who presides over
the destinies of H is children ? Does it not seem to you,
beloved, that you can easily trace in m em ory the guid­
ing influence of an All-Powerful Lo ve, almost from the
moment that you first decided upon taking the trip to
Egypt to visit the wonderful P yram id?” H e could, he
said, easily trace the whole thing in his m ind; and now
his feeling was one of pure joy and adoration, tinged
deeply with impatience to be with his beautiful Polly
again, and for all time. T o Polly the whole o f the
letter was a radiant gem that set her heart to beating
rapidly. H er spirit soared. Again she could almost
feel his strong, warm hand clasping hers firmly and
tenderly as it had that beautiful, moonlit evening in the
garden of the hotel grounds at romantic, unforget­
table Cairo. Again, too, she seemed to be borne up by
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
122
Jack’s great love for her, borne up strongly and sus­
tained, just as he had carried her with tireless ease and
grace and tenderness down the slope of the Great Pyra­
mid. Polly dwelt for a long minute upon God’s wonder­
ful goodness to her; her heart was, and would forever
be, most grateful to the Father who lived in her. Yes,
dear Jack, she thought to herself, how truly was I
influenced and guided by that Invisible Intelligence that
is called God. Her mind once more at the Pyramid
she recalled how the capstone of it was missing, and
how her fiance had told her that the missing corner­
stone represented, as was written in the Scriptures, the
“stone the builders rejected.” Deep within her inmost
soul she now breathed a prayer: “Oh, Dearie Dad, my
Wonderful Father,” she thought, “help me always to
remember, in my every thought, word and deed, to
remember and recognize the Stone the Builders Re­
jected. Help me in my work in order that I may al­
ways really see the Christ in every human being I
contact, especially those dear children at school, whose
minds are at the most critical formative stage.”
Polly was suddenly aware of someone moving
through the hall towards her room. It was her mother,
she knew, from the sound of the footfalls her leather
heeled slippers made. Rapping gently on the door, her
mother called softly to her and entered the room. Mrs.
Durant was an understanding soul. She did not scold
her daughter for remaining up so late; instead she
fondly petted her a moment, and said very sweetly:
“I know how you feel, dear. I understand. I was
once your age, you know, was just your age when your
father first came into my life. For me there was noth­
ing else in life but my wonderful Hiram; there isn’t
yet, dear, just my Hiram and you. If you feel that
way about your Jack, then he is the one for you,
honey.” .
“Yes, mother darling, he is the only one for me; he
Glad News of Six 'Weeks
1
2
3
is so wonderful in every way. A nd he taught me so
many beautiful and sublime things there at the G reat
Pyramid. I have been living all o f them over again
now as I read and thought about his sweet letter. One
thought in particular surges through me now with a
compelling force. It is this: I do so much wish to
always teach the principles of Jesus to m yself until H is
thoughts have become habits o f thought fo r me, and
my conduct in my hourly life will be H is conduct. L ife
has been so wonderfully kind to me, mother dear, that
I wish always to bear witness o f the fact o f the actual
manifestation of the Spirit o f Creative L ife acting
through my individual life. Really, mother, I am
born again. M y eyes really see now because my mind
perceives all things clearly. Lo ve is everywhere. A n y ­
one can know and enjoy it.”
“ Well, well, darling,” her mother smiled knowingly.
“ Is that the way you felt, mother darling, when you
found dad and he found you?”
Her mother kissed her fondly again. “ Y es, my dear
one,” she said with great feeling, “ it was very much
the same; and, as I said before, I still feel like that.”
“ And after all of these years, m other,” Polly
breathed aloud.
“ Yes, my sweet, after all of these years.” T h ere w as
a breath of deepest reverence in the elderly lady’s tone.
“ How wonderful, mother.”
“ It is wonderful, dear, very wonderful. Surely G od
is good. But now, honey, we must come down to the
prosaic and practical. You must go to bed now. Friends
are coming for luncheon tomorrow. Y o u m ay sleep
late; I shall call you in time for you to dress and pre­
pare for lunch. Goodnight, precious child; sweet
dreams to you.”
The Romance and Prophecies of the Great Pyramid
CHAPTER XIII
@
onVoyage!
r
loLLY Durant awakened early. H er sleep had
*b e e n deep and ve ry refreshing; she did not feel
that her hours o f slumber had been in any sense
too short. She h eard a songbird trilling happily in one
of the shrubs beneath her window. “ Sweet little fel­
low ,” she m urm ured as she sat up and reached for the
other tw o letters fro m her fiance, “ sing on, sing always!
I know h ow you fe e l; I feel the same way. You are
singing to yo u r m a te ; and here in my hand I have two
w onderful songs from m y mate. I shall let him sing
them to m e n o w .”
P o lly opened one o f the letters and read it through
avidly. F o r a fe w minutes she held it in her hands,
snug against her bosom , as she thought about its many
w onderful passages. It really did make a song for
h er; it had the soul-qualities o f the song of the skylark.
She then opened and read the second letter that re­
m ained. It w as even better, she concluded, than the
others, im possible though it seemed that such could be
true. It r e a d :
“ M y beloved w onder-w om an:
“ Y o u w ill never cease, my darling, to be my one won­
der-wom an. I am talking to my other self now, my other
and better self, called you. W ith you absent I find
m yself feeling constantly that I am only half here. A t
one time in m y life, in fact almost at all tiroes until God
gave me you, I felt that no unwelcome thought could
ever find lodging in my mind. N o doubt, dearest, you
are asking me right now if the incomplete thought is
v 125
9
really unwelcome, if it is not a normal feeling, and if I
would like to feel abnormal. That’s just it, and yet it
isn’t it, my own beloved. We mortals have told our­
selves so often, so tragically frequently, that loneliness
and sorrow are normal, natural emotions, have really
believed it when the object of our happiness was not
visible. But in our saner moments, if we think at all,
we know that devastating loneliness and bleak unhap­
piness are the abnormal things. To me it seems that if
we really wish with all of our hearts and souls to be a
true cause for happiness to others, which means the
same thing for ourselves, we shall make every effort to
be a perfect manifestation of joyous, ever-happy, com­
plete Life.
“Ah, my dear, I feel better now, just through having
confessed my slip from abiding grace. That, together
with my effort to be one with you in all things, lifts the
vibration high in me. You are divine in your compre­
hension, wonderful Polly; you will understand fully
your ‘strong man’s’ weakness. N’est ce pas? Truly,
dearest, when my feeling of one-ness with you is prop­
erly balanced, I do understand and know that we enter
the kingdom of Life and Peace through the gateway
of Love. M y love for you, adorable woman, gives me
a true sense of what love, as love, really means. Waves
of emotion shall never again drive my ship of peace
mercilessly about in the hurricane of uncontrolled
thoughts. If we use the Principle of Life correctly, it
does pay enormous dividends; if we use it improperly,
we pay a terrible toll. When I left the city to come on
this trip my mind was set inflexibly upon one deter­
mination, that of realizing fully before my return that
Intelligent Life does fill all of space, and that it is
always responsive to the individual intelligence which
recognizes it as being altogether good. I resolved to
see happiness in everything and in everyone. Do you
realize, my wonderful one, how my heart is now veri-
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyram id
126
u
tably flooded with appreciation of the great dividends
I have received for that one effort?
■ l i t is so abominably hot here in Cairo today that
Doc and I have decided to go for another boat-trip up
the Nile. Yes, one just like the one we had when you
were here, my own— only this one will not prove Half
so happy, except that I may feel your presence here
anyway, just as I often do. Next week I have invited
you to leave here with me, to come with me into the
stillness and joy of great trees, a pleasure and a boon
to the soul with which I was unfamiliar until you taught
me its great efficacy as a panacea. You have accepted,
you say? Thank you, dear. So on Thursday of next
week, remember, we shall set sail from Alexandria,
bound for M arseilles; thence to the glory that is said
to be the Schwarzwald. Silently joined by His Pres­
ence, we shall tarry there in the Black Forest for a
week, wandering among the great trees, and drinking
in the peace and strength and companionship of the
Infinite which prevades that solitude. Then, if you
will but continue to accompany me, and I know that you
shall be delighted to do so always, beloved, we shall
go to still other places for several weeks, and then turn
our faces toward Chicago. The thought comes to me
now, dearest, of returning to Cairo and the Great
Pyramid next winter as one. Shall we?
Dearly treasured one, this letter is growing too
Bon Voyage!
ii
long. So now just let me say it in this way in order
that your beautiful eyes may discern and your memory
ears may hear: No other person lives, or has lived,
who keeps such perfect step with the glory and majesty
that is the best of me that you do. And my one out­
standing resolve is to give you cause for greater joy
than you have ever known. Tell me again, dear one,
shall we come back here next winter as one? Please
ask your Divine Father; and I shall be knowing that
the very best Life has to give is ours. I feel your dear,
12 7
charming presence here with me now. M y soul lives
in the depths of yours forever. I love you.
“J a c k .”
Polly Durant went through her morning toilet as in
a daze, her mind far away with her lover. When
dressed, she glanced at the little, ivory clock on her desk
and noted that there was ample time before luncheon
to write fully to her Jack. She wrote and dispatched
to him a letter which read:
“Man among men:
“Your every word is vibrant with love and depth of
feeling and life, clasped fresh and succulent close to the
roots of my being where my life is a true plant of
nature. My soul takes from the soil and atmosphere
of your precious words all the nourishment it requires,
or can possibly absorb. In fact all which now belongs
to me by reason of my absolute affinity with you my
soul drinks in as the things of earth take in the rain and
sustenance they crave. My heart is ever grateful to
God for its contact with a man of such pure, sound,
sweet nature. As I read your dear letters over and
over it occurs to me that surely you must spend all of
your time towards thinking of good and beautiful
things to do and say for me.
“So often my thoughts return to our many delightful
and instructive exchanges of ideas. Just now, for in­
stance, my mind and heart are filled with your splendid
ideas of how man grows to the perfection of Life, as
taught in the magnificent King’s Chamber of the Great
Pyramid as being the eventual destiny of all mankind,
just as a fruit ripens to become the finished expression
of Life in a tree. Towards that mission all o f its
forces converge, and its vitality is absorbed in the p ro ­
duction of a perfect fruit. That idea of yours regard­
ing the manner in which man absorbs his world into
himself, in its essence that is, so that it enriches and
:
*ju ' v*H i28
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyram id
truly liberates him, is beautiful and inspiring to me.
You make of it so much a vital, rather than a mere
mechanical, process. It is quite apparent to me now
that your letters convey the truth of your ideas and
ideals to me better than did your oral explanations,
wonderful indeed as were the latter. I realize more
fully each hour that that growth within requires time
because of its very nature of being so vital. In the
same way the perfection of God’s Life in man comes
only by long-continued, and for the most part uncon­
scious, processes of inner, or soul, growth. The one
great purpose of my life now is to grow along with
you, our whole lives intertwined each with the other,
until I have become what I shall do my best to always
remain, the true complement of what I see you to be.
I wish also to establish within myself, within my in­
most soul, a conscious relation with the Order of Life
as it surrounds m e; and to do so so perfectly that every
contact with It disciplines, informs, broadens me, my
eventual goal being that I am always in conscious har­
mony with Life’s exalted purposes, wherever and how­
ever I may see them. This state of being I know will
lift me above the changes of fickle external fortune and
into the constant happiness of the physical manifesta­
tion of Life in me.
“You, my prince, have mastered the art of living.
You have a clear understanding and a perfect execution
of the nature of the possibilities contained in the mate­
rials of the mind. These you reform and combine with
a wonderful plastic freedom, or with the inspiring ease
of the Universal Creative Energy Itself. You have
learned to look upon the world about you as being
God’s world, through which in all of its functions there
is constantly expressed the Intelligence of Loving Life.
Who was it, dearest one, that once wrote: *The master
of a department is not he who has its facts at his finger­
tips, but rather he who commands its inward power
Bon Voyage!
129
and has the secrets o f its perfection w ritten deep w ithiM
his heart*? Whoever it was that conceived that mag­
nificent thought must have had you in mind at the time ■
for it fits your endowments perfectly. Some men seel
nothing but the outer shell or things, the part which isl
fragile and not enduring; but you alw ays discern the
soul o f things, the real p a rt o f things, that w hich is in -1
destructible. And to you nothing is common. You
stand in such vital, conscious relationship to your time
and opportunity, to all of humanity, that everything is
uncommonly grand to you. You have caused your soul
to ripen; therefore you are conscious of possessing the
highest and the best, and that only. Tell me, my won­
derful, wonderful lover, was the task very, very ardu­
ous? Or did the toil of the process soon becom e m ere
play by that transform ation w hich causes any task done
by the intention o f a fr e e and train ed w ill to be only
the jo y fu l outflow o f one’s natural en ergy an d fo r c e ?
I was going to ask you when in Egypt just how long it
had taken you to come to that point of ripened wisdom
where you now are. Such a knowledge as you possess
of your true relation to Life, so deep, so rich, so strong,
could only have been secured by the consent a n d action 1
o f you r w hole being. Your vivid imagination, your '
reason, your will, your schooled emotions, those things \
could not have come to you from memory, or from a !
method of trial and error, but only from your h a vin g ;
put fo rth at all times the resources o f y o u r w h o le soul. !
Thus have you definitely established a living relation- !
ship with the God that you were endeavoring to under-
stand and know.
“I wish so much to be what'I see you to be, to be as ,
I know that you must desire me. For that reason my i
thoughts have you on paper here; and when we meet !
again you will explain it all for me. Won’t you, dear? |
I am living in happy, very happy expectation of what j
our lives together may be when they are soon united
1 3 0 I
The Romance and Prophecies o f the G reat Pyram iM
for the rest of our journey down the fragrant lane of
flowering Life. I know that my school-work shall take
on a new joy for me this autumn, and that the hours
shall never drag and wear me down as they used to do.
Results in every way shall be better than before; and
all of it is due to you as you are, and as I first knew
you in Egypt, in and upon, and under the shadow of,
the Great Pyramid.
“It is only a short time now until you shall be here;
and until such time as you come you will carry me with
you wherever you go. W hatever you enjoy I shall
enjoy with you, even though the vast ocean does seem
to separate us. Thought can leap the ocean instantly,
can loop the world in a minute fraction of a second.
Therefore we are not now separated in spirit, nor shall
we ever be. Yes, soon now you shall be here; and this
will be the very happiest Christmas that I have ever
had. M y mother and father send their loving thoughts
to you, my dear one. Oh, yes, I have told them all
about you, and how wonderful you really are, and they
are blessing you as their own son. I feel my hand in
yours now just as clearly as I did when you were help­
ing me to mount to the lofty pinnacle of Wisdom in
Stone. Do you remember how you had to pull? But
we did arrive at the crest, and the joy of it all was
the greatest this Life has brought to me down to
that time.
“I sincerely hope that you may not find this missive
too long. Let us learn together, dearest, that Life is
a cumulativef inward growth as well as a cumulative
power of outward productivity. God is with you; my
great love surrounds you, for it is with you, all of
it, always. Your very own,
P o l l y .”
Polly Durant felt her very soul fully in attunement
with Love as she finished her letter to “the only man.”
Bon Voyage!
131
“It’s strange,” she mused, “how just putting one’s
thoughts and feelings into words will refresh one and
make one feel so much better; one feels not only in
tune with the person to whom one has written, but with
all of Life as well.”
Polly addressed and stamped her envelope, and went
to the corner to drop it into the mail box. As she re­
turned a happy refrain ran through her mind; and she
began to hum it.
When her school began, Polly did not write to Lewis
every day; she wrote only each Sunday. It required
most of that day for her to put on paper for him her
many thoughts of him of the preceding week. In happy
anticipation the weeks passed. For her all was joy,
a delight which increased as the close of each day
brought her happiest day of all the nearer. Polly had
given the school-board notice of her resignation, effec­
tive at the beginning of the Christmas holidays. And
almost before she was aware of it, it seemed, Christ­
mas approached. Between closing her term of school-
work, shopping for her husband-to-be, and for her
trousseau, she was very busy. Then at least a week
before she was really expecting it, there came a radio­
gram from at sea: “Am landing at New York tomorrow.
Leaving at once for Chicago. Simply must see you.
Shall not hinder, but hope to help. 333. Jack.” The
three treys at the close of the message made Polly’s
heart sing for joy. They were the code of her fiance
and herself, which when interpreted meant alw ays: “I
adore you.” Lewis had originated the code for them.
On Saturday Lewis arrived, ten days before Christ­
mas. And two days before the holiday Doctor Travers
came, accompanied by M rs. Travers. Polly and the
latter were just like sisters almost at once, Polly show­
ing her the many beautiful things which were arriving
daily, and telling her in very confidential terms how
The Rom ance and Prophecies o f the G reat P yram id
1
3
2
very happy she was to marry the one man in all the
world to her.
On Christmas day, Polly and Lewis were married.
It was a home wedding. Mr. Durant had the library
of the home decorated to represent the King’s Chamber
in the Great Pyramid. There were only a score of
guests; and all of them understood why, when perform­
ing the ceremony of union, the minister stood on one
side of the empty Coffer, the symbol of eternal life,
and Jack and Polly across from him on the other side
of the Coffer.
The ceremony over, and good wishes expressed,
Polly went upstairs and said “au revoir” to her pre­
cious parents, who, together with her friends, found in
•Lewis an ideal husband for their beloved Polly. Within
half an hour the bride and groom were entraining for a
honeymoon to Egypt. Their hearts full of glad music
as they talked of the mysteries, prophecies, and espe­
cially of the romance, to be found in that great Oracle
of Wisdom in Stone, the Great Pyramid of Gizeh,
they were happily on their way.
Why don’t you visit the Great Pyramid? It is sure
to bring joy to your soul. May we all learn to know
God’s messages better, and live to realize the true hap­
piness that Life holds for each of us.
Bon Voyagel
T h e E n d .
Ind
Alaric 39
Anglo-Saxon 51
Ante-Chamber 56-57-58-60-
61
Architect 26-27-29
Ascending Passage 23-32
Building of Great Pyramid
19-23-27
Casing 17-18
Coffer 64-65
Deluge 24
Descending Passage 19-21
Description of Great Pyra­
mid 16-17-18-70-71
Dream 90
Elect (the) 60-61
Exodus 33
First Low Passage 53-54-55-
56-57
Grand Gallery 29-31-33-48-
53
Granite Leaf 56-58
Great Niche 26
Great Step 38-47-53-54
Happiness 79-80-81
Height of Great Pyramid 17
Hildebrand 45
Horizontal Passage 32-34
Immortality 31-65-69-70
Isaiah 38
Israelites 50
Jesus (birth of) 24-29
Key to Prophecies 38-53
King’s Chamber 56-59-64
Location of Great Pyramid
11
Mamoun 18
Martel 40
Millenial Age 65
Mohammed 40
Moses 33-49-50
Outside of Great Pyramid
75-76-77-78
Paul 34-39
Pit 32
Queen s Chamber 22-32-34
Reformation 46
Roman Empire 39
Seven Churches of Scripture
39
Shepherd Kings 4-50-51-52-
77
Size of Great Pyramid 16-
17-18
Time of the End 49-59-60
Trees 81-84-93-94
T roward 30-84-85
Tnice in Chaos 60
Universal 14-16-41-42-85
Versailles (treaty of) 58
Weight of Great Pyramid 17
W ell 32
W orld W ar 54-55-57-58-59
1
3
5
