{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__underhill___golden_sequence.pdf","mytitle":"Golden Sequence","mylang":"de"}
THE
GOLDEN SEQUENCE
A Fourfold Study of the
Spiritual Life
BY
4 EVELYN UNDERBILL
FELLOW OF KING S COLLEGE, LONDON
Author of "Man and the Supernatural,"
"Mysticism" "Concerning the
Inner Life," etc.
</,
^
E. P. BUTTON & CO., INC.
NEW YORK
J
THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE, COPYRIGHT,
1933, BY E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC. : : ALL
RIGHTS RESERVED : : PRINTED IN U.S.A.
FIRST EDITION
UBB.4R1B8
10561.47
TO
LUCY MENZIES
WITH MUCH LOVE
PREFACE
I
"^HIS is a personal little book. Its aim is
not the establishment of some new thesis.
It merely represents the precipitation of
my own thoughts, as they have moved to and fro
during the last few years, along a line which has
the spiritual doctrine of St. John of the Cross at
one end, and the philosophy of Professor Whitehead
at the other: though I fear that few traces of
the influence of these august god-parents appear
in the finished result. The book, then, does not
pretend to completeness ; and is not to be regarded
as a treatise, still less as a manual of the spiritual
life. It consists of what ancient writers on these
themes were accustomed to call
'
considerations
'
;
offered to those who share the writer's passion for
the exploration of the realities, and interpretation
of the experiences, which are signified by the
familiar words and symbols of dogmatic religion.
I am sure that this passion even where it takes
the form of an exaggerated impatience of traditional
language and practice is on the whole a symptom
of spiritual vitality ;
and that its legitimate demands
should be met, with candour and without nervous-
ness, by those who adhere to Christian theism and
believe its majestic declarations to be the best of
vii
viii THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
all answers to the problem of human life. For
although it is almost certainly an error, to speak of
the
'
modern soul
'
as though it were distinct in
kind from all that have gone before, and had nothing
to learn from its spiritual ancestors ; yet the great
changes which have come with the present century,
and especially the new proportion in which the
universe is now seen by us, have deeply affected our
attitude towards those realities which do not change.
The ancient language of faith can no longer be taken
for granted. Its terms must be re-examined, if
their abiding significance is to be understood. And
it is surely a work of piety to do this ; and bring
back into currency these lovely tokens of our
spiritual Patria and spiritual wealth.
For the times are crucial for the future of human
religion. On one hand it tends more and more
towards a shallow immanentism, an emphasis upon
the here-and-now, which replaces adoration by
altruism, and Charity by humanitarian sentiment.
This pious naturalism abounds in good works ; but
it lacks the creative energy which comes only from
the eternal sources of power. On the other hand,
the fresh acknowledgement of the Transcendent,
the awe-struck sense of God, the prophetic insistence
on the Holy, which distinguishes the work of Otto,
Barth and Brunner, and their numerous disciples,
has brought with it a crushing sense of helplessness ;
of an unbridged gap between action and contem-
plation, between the human and the divine. It is the
peculiar work of the Christian doctrine of the Spirit,
PREFACE ix
to fill this gap ;
and weave together the temporal
and eternal strands in our strange human experience
of reality, without any declension from that deep
acknowledgement of Transcendent Majesty, that
sense of our creaturely status over against the
Eternal, which is the very salt of religion.
The title of the book is that given by liturgic
custom to the noblest of all Christian hymns, the
Veni Sancte Spiritus ;
well known in a somewhat
pedestrian translation to users of our standard
English hymn-books. For these studies began as
an attempt to enter more deeply into its unfathom-
able meaning, give a wider, richer and more supple
interpretation to the neglected doctrine which it
declares, and bring its phrases into direct relation
with the interior experiences of men. Though
here and there my meditations may seem to wander
far from their inspiring cause, to me its music has
been always present ;
and will, I hope, be heard
by my readers too. The four sections into which
the work has fallen, do represent in some sense the
fourfold relation between the created spirit and
that Spirit Increate : for they cover first the revela-
tion of its reality and the movement of response
which it incites in us, and then the two capital
means without which our destiny as spiritual beipgs
can never be fulfilled. Some who read these pages
will
certainly complain, because little is said about
Fellowship and Service ;
activities which nowadays
are often regarded as the substance, instead of the
symptoms, of a living Christianity. To these critics
x THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
I can only say, that the subject of the book is that
essential life, out of which real fellowship and service
must proceed ;
for these are not the essence but the
expression of the spiritual life in man. The saints
abound in fellowship and service, because they are
abandoned to the Spirit, and see life in relation to
God, instead of God in relation to life ; and there-
fore seize with delight on every circumstance of
life, as material for the expression of Charity. This
resort to first principles, this surrender to the priority
of Spirit, and the embodiment of our faith in such
meek devotional practice and symbolic action as
shall stimulate the transcendental sense :
this, I
believe, is the chief spiritual lack of the modern
world.
The first and last sections of this book incorporate
the substance of a few passages which have already
appeared in a paper on
'
God and Spirit
'
read before
the Anglican Fellowship, and afterwards printed in
Theology ; and in an article on
'
Prayer and the
Divine Immanence
'
contributed to The Expository
Times. This material has been revised and largely
re-written for the purpose of the present work.
E. U.
Whitsuntide, 1932
CONTENTS
SPIRIT
PAGE
I WHAT is SPIRIT ? ..... i
II GOD is SPIRIT . . . . . . 8
III SPIRIT AS POWER ...... 14
IV SPIRIT AS PERSON . . . . .21
V THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT . . .
-32
SPIRITUAL LIFE
I CREATED SPIRIT ...... 45
II MAN NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL . .
53
III CREATIVE SPIRIT 63
IV LIFE FINITE AND INFINITE .... 70
V THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT .... 78
VI THE TWOFOLD LIFE 90
PURIFICATION
I THE ESSENCE OF PURGATION ... 97
II THE CLEANSING OF THE SENSES . . .
107
III THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT .
-115
IV MEMORY AND IMAGINATION . . . .126
V WILL AND LOVE 135
xi
xii THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
PRAYER
PAGE
I THE SPAN OF PRAYER 147
II ADORATION ....... 158
III COMMUNION ....... 168
IV ACTION 178
V CONCLUSION ....... 191
Veni, Sancte Spiritus,
Et emitte coelitus
Lucis tuae radium.
Veni, pater pauperum,
Veni, dator munerum,
Veni, lumen cordium.
Consolator optime,
Dulcis hospes animae,
Dulce refrigerium.
In labore requies,
In aestu temperies,
In fletu solatium.
O Lux beatissima,
Reple cordis intima
Tuorum ndelium.
Sine tuo numine,
Nihil est in homine,
Nihil est innoxium.
Lava quod est sordidum,
Riga quod est aridum,
Sana quod est saucium.
Flecte quod est rigidum,
Fove quod est frigidum,
Rege quod est devium.
Da tuis fidelibus,
In te confidentibus,
Sacrum septenarium.
Da virtutis meritum,
Da salutis exitum,
Da perenne gaudium.
xiv
THE GOLDEN
SEQUENCE
SPIRIT
WHAT IS SPIRIT?
SPIRIT
'
and
'
spiritual
'
are words which are
constantly used and easily taken for granted
by all writers upon religion more constantly
and easily, perhaps, than any of the other terms
in the mysterious currency of faith. Many who
hesitate at the name of God, find no difficulty in
assuming the existence of Spirit. Yet as a matter
of fact, there are few terms in the vocabulary of
religion of which the true character and value is so
difficult to capture and define. This difficulty is
not peculiar to the philosophic pietist, recom-
mending
'
absolute spiritual values
'
which are as
elusive as vitamins, and equally essential to life.
It is
already present in those New Testament docu-
ments from which the Christian theology of spirit
is derived. These documents say much of that
which Spirit does and demands : little or nothing
i
2 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
of that which Spirit is. They leave us still facing
the question : what is Spirit ? and the more we
look at this question, the more we realize that we
cannot answer it.
'
Spirit
'
a word admittedly symbolic, and more
suggestive than precise does stand for something
which is veritably known by us,
'
dimly yet vividly
'
as Von Hugel says ; something most real and funda-
mental to our human world, permeating all deep
human experience .though always lying just beyond
the range of conceptual thought. Our experience
of this
'
something
'
may be slight and fleeting, or
profound and transforming. But it is always the
experience of a living reality ;
an unseen energy
other than ourselves, and having in its own right a
range of being and of significance unconditioned by
the narrow human world. This reality is not, like
sunlight, susceptible of analysis. Its character is
never truly clear to the logical levels of the mind.
It is, as the Victorines declared,
'
beyond reason
'
though not
'
against reason '. It is known, there-
fore, more richly by intuition than it can ever be
by intellect ; and, for reasons which will afterwards
appear, most richly and steadily by those who
accept, in some way or degree, the special disciplines
of the religious life. Indeed it seems that only a
life which has been slowly cleansed by the pene-
trating action of much prayer, can develop at all
fully that peculiar sensitiveness in which Spirit is
truly known, even though never understood. All
the. works which really tell us something about it,
WHAT IS SPIRIT? 3
and rouse our dull souls to a sense of its reality,
come from those whose lives have been re-ordered
in this sense. Their writings, so quiet, nourishing
and humble, stand in sharp contrast to the dry,
assured, and superficial cleverness of those who
pronounce upon
'
spiritual experience
'
from without.
All the studies of mystical psychology ever written
will give us less information here than one encounter
with a contemplative saint.
And this alone enlightens us as to the first char-
acter of the terms
'
Spirit
'
and
'
spiritual life '.
Their reference is to a rich and concrete reality, a
genuine existence which is only truly known by
contact, and only fully known by self-mergence ;
that substantial Being we call eternal, by contrast
with the time-series in which our natural lives are
immersed. For it is the special function of prayer to
turn the self away from the time-series, and towards
the eternal order ; away from the apparent, and
towards the significant ; away from succession, and
towards adoration and adherence. Prayer opens
the doors of the psyche to the invasion of another
order, which shall at its full term transform the very
quality of our existence. And Spirit, in its most
general sense, is our name for that world, life, Being,
which is then apprehended by us ;
and for that
quality in ourselves which is capable of such appre-
hension and response. Moreover, this sacred cate-
gory, lying behind the native land of the intelli-
gence, is not to be thought of lightly, vaguely, or
coldly, as mere material for academic speculation.
4 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
We do not mean by it some tenuous region or plane
of being to which physical considerations cannot
apply. The whole witness of religion suggests that
it is alive with an awful splendour, a range of personal
action, which extends from the most tender and
intimate workings on the individual soul, to the
inconceivable energies and secret movements which
can sometimes be detected behind the pageant of
the visible world.
For all this, we must acknowledge that the word
'
Spirit
'
even though it carries the suggestions of
an invisible and unbounded energy, a wind blowing
where it listeth, a breath and life is far too vague
and general to be adequate. It is allusive not
descriptive ;
and will never convey to those who
have not known them, the vivid realities of our
supersensual experience. When we look back into
its origins the strange word Ruach of the Old
Testament, the Pneuma of the New we realize
that these terms stand for man's fundamental but
ineffable consciousness of the Unearthly ;
and that
the symbols which he uses to convey that con-
sciousness derive their value, not from any true
approximation to the experience which always slips
through the meshes of the mind but from the
fact that they have become charged with a certain
quality of suggestion which can stir our latent
sense of
'
otherness '.
They are essentially musical
and poetic ; crystallize the intuition of an unseen
Somewhat, unspeakable in its transcendence, yet
giving all its significance to the activities of the seen.
WHAT IS SPIRIT? 5
As Otto has pointed out, this knowledge of Spirit
is still tentative and unformed in the Old Testament.
The alternate movements of love and fear which
stir those sensitive to its pressure have something
of the august simplicity of primitive art. Its trans-
forming, saving,
'
supernaturalizing
'
character, the
immense possibilities that wait on its invasion of
human life, are not yet understood : still less its
metaphysical implications. It is known only in
the rare and vivid experiences of the prophetic
consciousness those strange calls and overwhelming
intuitions, in which the soul becomes aware of the pre-
sence and direct demand of God-Spirit. Yet even
these embryonic perceptions of a living and acting
Reality already turn the mind to a mysterious region,
entirely transcending us yet intimately present with
and through us. They assert the presence of a
world and an energetic power over against us ; the
scene of secret experience, the spring of secret
action, and as we grow up in that world and that
action the occasion of great suffering and great
py.
This, and much more, is involved and suggested
by the strange word
'
Spirit
'
;
even as used in the
most general sense. And within this general sense
it
gives us, as we explore it, many grades and
depths of reality ;
not easily to be harmonized
within our limited span. At one end of the scale,
it
points with awe towards the nature of Absolute
Being ; in so far as Absolute Being is
apprehended
by us.
'
God is Spirit.' At the other end, it is
6 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
our best word for a certain fundamental essence or
quality we divine in ourselves, the ground of our
being, wherein our reality consists : a quality which
confers on us a certain kinship with Absolute Being,
and gives us a
'
capacity for God '. This element
of our many-levelled and unstable nature, emerging
and becoming dominant, can transform us :
'
that
which is born of the Spirit, is spirit.'
Thus, whether we look at it from the objective or
subjective point of view, this word Spirit is our
label for the fundamental religious category. It
stands for all we know or suspect of the supersensual,
the non-successive ; and the range of experience
and belief lying between its two extremes, divine
and human, is the field not only of theology but of
all personal religion. And as we mature and life
becomes more transparent to us at least in hours
of recollection and peace we find here the source
of those mysterious movements, those hidden
currents, by which human destinies are controlled.
Yet even so this term
'
Spirit
'
alone is not enough
for religion ; though it may easily be enough for
philosophy. For religion is concerned, not merely
with the non-extended and the supersensuous, but
with the Holy. We may be sure that vast regions
of existence lie beyond our sensory range ; and that
the world invisible includes grades and kinds of
being of which we are unable to conceive. But
religion as such is not concerned with the totality
of the mysterious. It loses its character and squan-
ders its strength, when it leaves the strait way to
Ll
WHAT IS SPIRIT? 7
God for these by-path meadows. Its business is
only with the Holy ; with the relationship between
man, the derived, imperfect and embodied spirit,
and the perfect, spaceless Spirit of all spirits God.
It affirms His living sanctity, His individual action,
His overwhelming attraction and demand: and the
nothingness of the soul, at least as regards its
upward reaches, without that action its fulfilment
in the response to that attraction and demand.
Therefore any attempt to study the
'
spiritual life
'
of man must begin here ;
with the fluid concept
under which he tries to express what he knows of
the peculiar quality of that life, and its relation to
its. source and goal.
II
GOD IS SPIRIT
TWO
of the names of God which are most
characteristic of the New Testament
seem when we take them together and
examine them closely to contain or involve an
almost complete doctrine of Spirit in its relation
to the life of man. First, there is that absolute
statement which the Fourth Gospel attributes to
Christ Himself
'
God is Spirit
'
; and the whole
conception of the Divine nature which is implied
by it. Next there is the term most commonly used
by Him, and repeated by the Synoptists
'
our
Heavenly Father '. This of course is nearly always
distorted by pious minds ; which stress the pro-
tective, cherishing, humanistic note, and so blur
the overwhelming supernatural affirmation. Yet it
is only in the double declaration that our best name
for the ultimate Reality is Spirit, and that neverthe-
less this same ineffable and wholly supernatural
Spirit is father of our half-real souls, that we can
hint the real mystery of our situation. Here, we
do stand beyond the time-series, and declare our
own deepest being to be rooted in Eternal Life, to
consist in a direct relationship with Reality.
'
Unto
8
GOD IS SPIRIT 9
the rapting Spirit the rapt spright !
'
exclaimed
Fotherby, enclosing our beatitude in a matchless
phrase.
Neither of these expressions, of course, is peculiar
to Christianity. All that they mean is already
implied in the Psalms and the Prophets, and emerges
in the deepest experiences of first-hand religion
wherever found. But each receives in Christianity
a new expansion and richness of content. The first
term,
'
God is Spirit ', lifts us far beyond that world
of succession which is the normal object of our
consciousness, and gives precision to our deep sense
of transcendent and abiding Reality. It clears
away the spatial images which dog and blur religious
thought, and places us in alworld wholly other than
the dimensional world of sense,) and yet a world
that is most truly here. It names, though it cannot
describe, the Object of our metaphysical thirst. It
endorses the instinctive upward glance of awakened
souls : the strange awe and delight which falls upon
these souls when they taste in moments of tran-
quillity that
'
supreme Being, supreme Life, in
Whom are all moments of time
'
and realize that
looking up is the same as looking in, since beyond
and within process, and alone giving meaning to
process, is not merely Mind but that super-essential
Life of which Mind is but one facet the irresistible
attraction of God-Spirit. Baron von Hugel tells us
how in earliest childhood, before the moral struggle
began, he felt all nature to 'be penetrated and
saturated by a Spirit distinct from what I saw,
10 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
distinct from myself the seer
'
that inborn sense
of God which is the ground-stuff of natural religion
and moreover that the essence of this purely religious
joy consisted
'
precisely in the fact that, beautiful
as the external nature was, God did not consist
even in its full totality, but was a Life, an Intelli-
gence, a Love distinct from it all, in spite of His
close penetration of it all '. Here then we seem to
have the report of a primary experience of the
Spirit, as known by an innate though still unformed
genius for religion. And we see already in this
naive intuition the sharp withdrawal of the genuine
religious sense from any merely immanental appre-
hension of God-Spirit ; its emphasis on the distinct-
ness of the divine. God is here a concrete Reality
underlying all lesser realities ; moulding, inspiring,
and supporting His creation in every detail and at
eyery point.
We can trace this apprehension of Spirit, in
various degrees of richness and distinctness, right
through human experience, from the child to the
saint. Thus it is wonderfully given by Plotinus,
in a passage which seems to anticipate the deepest
intuitions of the Christian contemplatives.
'
We
must not ', he says,
'
think of ourselves as cut off
from the source of Life ;
rather we breathe and
consist in It, for It does not give Itself to us and
then withdraw Itself, but ever lifts and bears us.' So
too St. Hildegard hears the Spirit say :
'
I am that
living and fiery Essence of the divine substance that
glows in the beauty of the fields. I shine in the
GOD IS SPIRIT ii
water, I burn in the sun, and the moon, and the
stars, Mine is the mysterious force of the invisible
wind ... I permeate all things, that they may not
die. I am Life.' And Angela of Foligno tells us how
she saw in vision the whole universe spread before
her ;
the ocean, and the abyss of space in which the
world lies, and all things that exist therein. And in
all this she could see nothing but the power and
presence of God, in a way that she had no words
to express ;
so that she cried out in her amaze-
ment :
'
The whole world is impregnated with
God !
'
And again Julian of Norwich, more homely
in expression but not less profound,
'
We are all
in Him enclosed and He is enclosed in us !
'
So
'
God is Spirit
'
guarantees religion both in its
most transcendental and its most penetrating
aspects : in its certitude of Presence and of purpose ;
in its passionate desire for purification, its incurable
'
otherness ', its tendency towards the simple, the
universal, the spaceless, which is yet the rich, the
concrete, the Here.
'
The Holy Spirit ', says St.
Thomas Aquinas,
'
is God Himself as He is every-
where at all times
'
;
and the very heart of all
personal religion is the tendency of the created
spirit to union with that Spirit-God. Thus the
fact that our awareness of this Holy Spirit is so
limited, fluctuating and sporadic, our understanding
so coloured by apparent contradiction, is seen to
be comparatively unimportant. The emphasis lies
on God, the Fact of all Facts, and His penetrating
action ; not on the partial experiences of our
12 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
uneven, tentative and many-levelled consciousness,
still so uncertain in its grasp of all that lies beyond
the world of sense.
For the doctrine of the Holy Spirit means that we
acknowledge and adore the everywhere-present
pressure of God ; not only as a peculiar religious
experience, not as a grace or influence sent out from
another world or order, but as a personal holy
Presence and Energy, the Lord and Giver of Life
in this world and yet distinct from it, penetrating all,
yet other than all, the decisive factor in every
situation. It means God entering into, working on
and using the whole world of things, events, and
persons ; operating at various levels, and most
deeply and freely in that world of souls where His
creation shows a certain kinship with Himself.
Veni, Sancte Spiritus,
Et emitte coelitus
Lucis tuae radium.
And this Presence is moulding, helping and press-
ing all His creation on every plane, in every
person, at every point by the direct action of His
divine influence, to move towards greater perfec-
tion, get nearer the pattern of His shining thought.
That influence may be felt as the gentle pressure
on which piety prefers to dwell, or as the shattering
invasion of a compelling and purifying power.
'
Mine ', said the Voice to St. Hildegard,
'
is the blast
of the thundered word by which all things were
made.' When we meditate on all this, we get a
GOD IS SPIRIT 13
wonderful sense of the unmeasured action of God,
and the links that bind together the mysterious
rhythms of nature, the great movements of history,
and the hidden springs of Providence and prayer.
'
The Divine will ', says Caussade,
'
unites itself to
our souls by a thousand different means ; and that
which it adopts for us is always the best for us.'
Moreover, the fact of this holy spaceless Presence
guarantees and informs all those graded, varied,
contrasting self-disclosures of God, which together
constitute the history of human religion ;
and all
those intimations of Eternity, those hints of an
imperishable beauty, given to us through rifts in
the natural scene. Our limited minds refuse to
combine the ideas of the personal and the universal.
We set them in opposition ;
but that is almost
certainly a mistake. The self-revelation of Spirit
to its sense-conditioned creatures goes all the way
from the cosmic to the homely. It can bless the
votive candle, and burn in the star. Yet even so,
the most awe-struck vision, the most humble com-
munion, do but touch single strands on the fringed
robe of this Reality who is both Will and Love.
For Spirit, thus conceived, is God, the Pure Absolute,
acting. And it is the prerogative of religion to
discover this action informing every small event of
our inward and outward existence : and thus give
significance to the bewildering mesh of circumstance
which hems us in, whilst leaving in untouched majesty
that Abyss of Being which enfolds and transcends
our island universe of faith.
Ill
SPIRIT AS POWER
SO
wide and elastic a doctrine of Spirit as that
which seems to emerge from these considera-
tions is congenial enough to modern minds ;
which love to sweep a large area of experience and
thought within the hospitable frontiers of a single
definition, and are more concerned with breadth
than depth. But if we left the matter here, un-
balanced by its completing opposite, we should fail
to account for all the most profound and most
subtle experiences of men. There is little to dis-
tinguish such a conception of the Spirit from a
general doctrine of the immanence of God ;
and
this easy and deceptive simplification would slur for
us some of the most significant and necessary out-
lines drawn by religion. Those who give it uncon-
ditioned adherence are already setting their faces
towards quietism, and away from the energy of
adoration : towards pantheism, and away from the
awful distinctness of God.
Certainly we may speak, as the mystics often do,
of the Ocean of God-Spirit : that
'
Sea Pacific
'
of the Divine, bathing and penetrating all life, in
which the soul in certain states seems to be sunk,
14
SPIRIT AS POWER 15
losing all separate action in those peaceful and
powerful
tides. But so doing we must keep steadily
in mind the fact that this image merely describes
one aspect, one phase most deep and true indeed,
yet not perhaps the most important for us in our
rich but never perfect experience of an infinite
Reality that transcends the totality of our experi-
ences, conceptions and beliefs. The most marked
character of all Biblical references to the Spirit is
by no means the sense of an unbounded Life
'
in
whom we live and move and have our being
'
a
conception, of course, which is taken from a Pagan
source. It is true that the Divine Action fills the
universe and that the most free and vigorous of
created spirits is but a darting shrimp in that
unsounded sea. But the great Biblical writers owe
their power to the fact that they knew deeper
levels of spiritual experience than this. The com-
pensating revelations of a terrible holiness and a
profound tenderness, which gradually emerge in the \
Old Testament and are fully declared in the New,
require as their background something very different
from a merely immanental religious philosophy.
For the men of the Bible the Spirit is never fully
here ;
a calm, enveloping Presence like the Plotinian /
psyche, penetrating the human world. Their em- /
phasis is on its distinctness.
Veni, Sancte Spiritus
It is
wholly other ;
the Object, not of philosophic
speculation, but of direct and awe-struck experience.
16 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
We are here in the presence of that fundamental
dualism, which lies at the very heart of human
religion.
To
'
receive the Spirit
'
then, is not merely to
open our eyes or even our souls on our real situation,
penetrated and sustained as we are by the Being of
God. It means a fresh situation, in which the first
movement comes from the hidden world over against
us ;
the passive reception of a more abundant life,
which is never to be won by the creature's deliberate
efforts ;
the prophetic
'
gift
'
of Spirit ;
the crucial
Pauline change from psyche to pneuma. Mild
notions of a general immanence of Spirit must give
way before that awe-struck sense of imminence
which is the characteristic note of the Biblical
doctrine of God. There is
constantly implied in
the religious outlook of the Old and New Testament
writers, the expected invasion of another order over
against the historical and human. Here, Spirit
always represents the unconditioned action, the
awful intervention of the very Life of God ;
at once
a living spring and a devouring fire. The world of
the Bible is not wholly built up by the. quiet action
of aqueous deposits. Its various structure witnesses
to volcanic periods ; when another order intervenes,
with power to compel and transform.
'
The Holy Spirit shall come on thee and the
power of the most High overshadow thee. . . .
Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit ... He
shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit. . . .
Jesus
returned in the power of the Spirit. . . . Unto him
SPIRIT AS POWER 17
that blasphemeth against the Holy Spirit it shall not
be forgiven. ... He breathed on them and said,
Receive ye the Holy Spirit. ... Ye shall receive
power after that the Holy Spirit is come upon
you. ... As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit
fell on them. . . .
Christ, through the eternal
Spirit,
offered himself without spot to God. . . .
Resist not the Spirit. ... Ye are sealed unto the
Holy Spirit. ... An habitation of God through
the Spirit . . . where the Spirit of the Lord is,
there is liberty.'
These texts, taken almost at random from the
countless references of the New Testament, do give
us when we strip them of pietistic associations, an
overwhelming sense of vigorous and incalculable
action ; an Energy that intervenes, breaks through
from another plane of being, to modify or transform
the chain of cause and effect. As we dwell on them,
we receive the strong impression of one order acting
on and through another order : of the whole human
scene as subject to the free and mysterious action
of a Creative Power. This sense of an imminent
Act reaches its full intensity, and is expressed with
poetic energy^ in the prophetic and apocalyptic
writers ; but it is essential to all living Christianity.
The life of prayer hinges on it. It underlies all
sacramental religion.
Veni, Sancte Spiritus,
Et emitte coelitus
Lucis tuae radium.
i8 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
The Church's great hymn to the Spirit, the Golden
Sequence, beginning with the word Come, presents
the very essence of Biblical religion ;
and marks the
line of cleavage between natural and supernatural
theology.
For when the Spirit is denned in the Christian
Creed, not only as Lord and Giver of Life, but as
One who '
spake by the Prophets ', the Church
takes her departure from any doctrine which merely
equates the Holy Spirit with the general im-
manence of God. Here, we are asked to acknow-
ledge the free and personal action of the Absolute
on and through individuals :
using, modifying, or
even thwarting the stream of causation we know
as Natural Lav/. We are invited to recognize that
action working within history, sometimes gradually,
but sometimes suddenly ; bringing forth prophets,
saints, men of action ; compelling them in defiance
of all natural prudence to declare the Divine Will,
do the Divine Work. In the controlling and en-
lightening Paraclete promised in the Fourth Gospel,
who is the real hero of the Book of Acts, we experi-
ence the working of that same Spirit who rules the
pageant of the heavens and sways the tides of
history : here proceeding from the Heart of Deity
to overrule and energize the clumsy efforts of imper-
fect men. Jtere we find a place for all those strange
episodes in hjistory where we feel another order inter-
vening, and the march of events seems to pass
beyond human control. So too those moments
when everything seems to hang on the appearance
SPIRIT AS POWER 19
of a particular person, leader, reformer or saint ;
or, yet more confounding, the crucial part which
some very simple and apparently unsuitable person
is abruptly called to play these receive a certain
explanation, even though the implied facts exceed
anything we are able to comprehend. For here,
all that we know of the action of personality
even in its poor human expression requires us
to infer its influence on the mysterious currents
that control the great and little histories of the
world.
,' Action Divine !
'
cries Caussade,
'
you have un-
veiled to me your immensity. I can make no step
save within your unmeasured Heart. All which
flows from you to-day, flowed yesterday. Your abyss
is the bed of that river of graces which pours forth
without ceasing all is upheld and all is moved by
you. Therefore I need seek you no more within
the narrow limits of a book, of the life of a Saint,
of a sublime idea. These are mere drops from that
Ocean which I see poured out on all creation. The
Divine Action overwhelms them all. They are but
atoms which disappear within that abyss.'
Here the general sense of God Immanent, pene-
trating and supporting His creation, is completed
by the sense of God Acting, and wholly present in
the act. And this free and loving action is some-
times perceived by us operating over a wide span ;
sometimes in astonishing detail and intensity within a
single soul. Both must be held together, in defiance
of
consistency, if we are to express the rich paradox
3
20 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
of Spirit as self-revealed to men. Again and again
naturalism strays from this, the only religious
attitude ;
and again and again our view of reality
suffers a corresponding impoverishment.
rl
IV
SPIRIT AS PERSON
THE
mind which has reached this point in
its exploration of the strange word Spirit,
may well feel baffled by the paradox which
confronts it. For how shall the
'
tranquil opera-
tions of perpetual Providence
'
be reconciled with
those abrupt experiences of an invading Life and
Power, of personal and incalculable contacts,
which are never wholly absent from the religious i,
intuitions of great souls ? Yet it is certain that r
these contrasting experiences of a Reality that is
one of that Spirit which, as St. Thomas says,
'both brings God to the soul and places the soul
in God
'
form the warp and weft of a full religious
life.
Though we must acknowledge a perfect con-
tinuity between that Creative Spirit disclosed by
the physical universe and the Holy Spirit of t)ivine
Love, yet here we reach an experience which is
wholly
'
other
'
and for which no degree of nature-
mysticism can prepare the soul. Life, as that soul's
awareness deepens, is more and more known to be
immersed in and penetrated by a living spiritual
order. But it is also known to be subject to
sudden new incitements, fresh personal lights and
21
22 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
calls and penetrations, the ceaseless possibility of
novelty ;
as that same abiding spiritual order floods
and works upon the stuff of our successive life. It
is true that the world is already
'
pregnant with
,i/ God
'
; yet also true that the key-word of our
f"
spiritual life is
'
Come '. The
'
Power of the Spirit
'
is no inborn possession of the creature. There is
no place where God is not, no situation in which
He is not there first ; yet something from another
dimension called the child Samuel, broke in upon
the young Isaiah in the Temple, and on Saul on the
Damascus road.
And here, that other name of God which is of all
the most surely guaranteed by Christ's own experi-
ence and teaching
'
our Heavenly Father
'
comes
with its rich suggestions of a personal action which
is the outcome of a personal relationship, to qualify
that sense of boundless Spirit which is the ground
of natural religion. For this term carries us beyond
the awed sense of an unmeasured Reality that
is
'
wholly other
'
;
even beyond the confident belief
in a creative and fostering Presence, as the origin
of
'
all that is '. It hints at a closer link, a certain
profound likeness in nature, a fetter of love, between
the
'
rapting Spirit and rapt spright '. It 'sets up
a relationship within which gifts and illuminations,
genuine expansions and enrichments of our small
experience, can be conceived as coming to the sense-
conditioned creature from the free and generous
action of a spaceless creative Power within the
soul.
SPIRIT AS PERSON 23
Veni, pater pauperum,
Veni, dator munerum,
Veni, lumen cordium.
Religion is penetrated through and through by this
conviction of human incompleteness ;
of our
dependence on a personal Reality, which can and
does make good the insufficiencies of a creature
that emerges from the animal yet possesses a capa-
city for God. The Christian liturgy returns again
and again to the thought of something given, sent,
poured in from the Transcendent, and makes each
sacrament the occasion of a heavenly gift. Rorate
coeli desuper ! Pour into our hearts love towards
Thee ! And though we may surely refer that sense
of invasion, even of a shattering impact, which is
a character of great transforming moments, to the
narrow span of our space-conditioned conscious-
ness ; yet this too has its value, in so far as it
maintains our sense of dependence on a present
yet infinite Power.
So here we turn back from the contemplation of
the Mystery of Being to our own situation, which
is not less mysterious ;
our dimly-guessed and yet
direct relationship with that unseen, all-penetrating
Reality.
'
The Spirit itself beareth witness with
our spirit, that we are the children of God.' Now
we begin to consider those elements in our own
nature, for which the temporal order cannot account ;
and which, because of their subtlety and uneven
manifestation, we easily push aside and neglect.
And first we perceive that our curious power of
24 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
standing away from succession and judging it to be
incomplete, that sense of the whole temporal
world as dust and ashes, which is a phase in nearly
every full awakening to God, is a part of this
witness to our mysterious kinship with the Un-
changing. Though we arise within the time-series
and are conditioned by it, we know by these signs
that we have another citizenship ; beyond suc-
cession, in the eternal order. Our small created
spirits originate with God the Pure Spirit ; owe
their being to Him, and depend utterly on Him.
Were this not so, the human soul could never have
reached that realistic experience of the Spirit, which
is characteristic of a fully expanded religious sense.
God, Who is Absolute Being, is also the Father,
Fount, and Origin of souls.
Nor do we mean by such an image to present
our relation with Spirit as the relation of a finite
something
'
here ', with an infinite Power
'
there
'
which is yet utterly outside the world ; but rather
as an unbroken continuity, in the soul's essential
ground, between the creature and the absolute
creative Love.
'
We are all in Himself enclosed ',
says Julian of Norwich,
'
and He is enclosed in us.'
In that filial adherence, even though it never rise
to consciousness, we can find an explanation at once
spiritual and reasonable for those direct movements
and incitements of the soul whether felt aSTsteady
pressure or as abrupt invasions which are of the
very substance of personal religion ; so too those
painful purifications by which, once it is awakened,
SPIRIT AS PERSON 25
it is pressed to establish harmony with the indwelling
Power.
'
The Spirit ', says Caussade,
f
keeps school
within us, in the soul's ground. He listens and
speaks, teaches, moves, turns and moulds it as He
wills. Of these workings of Spirit on spirit, the
person concerned knows as it seems almost nothing ;
yet comes from them with certain impressions by
which he is completely renewed.' And the same
essential truth which is indeed the philosophic
sanction of all incarnational and sacramental
religion is given in other terms by Von Hugel :
'
The central conviction and doctrine of Christianity
is the real prevenience and condescension of the real
God the penetration of spirit into sense, of the
spaceless into space, of the Eternal into time, of
God into man.' Here is a doctrine of the universe
which already contains in germ a doctrine of redemp-
tion, and a life-history of the human soul. Prophecy
and sanctity, Pentecost and Church, can all be
resumed under this law ;
and not these alone, but
all intimations of Holiness reaching us through
finite things. These are partial exhibitions of one
Divine method and act.
Thus we reach a truth of the transcendental order
which, once accepted, must transform and control
our whole attitude to the natural order. For it
means first that we, knowers and beholders of that
natural order, cannot fulfil our lives by a corre-
spondence, however perfect, with the natural alone.
Nor are we to be explained on evolutionary lines,
as
merely growing up from within it.
'
Spirit
'
in
26 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
its unearthly beauty, its overwhelming demand,
breaks in from another world, which is over against us
and yet within us ; to possess, purge and transform.
And only under its penetrating action and through
its indwelling presence can any human life become
complete. Moreover, this penetrating action of God
takes place, above all, through and in human spirits ;
and along the paths of the common life. Here is
the only territory known to us, in which nature and
supernature meet and merge.
'
Spirit and spirit, God and the creature ', says
Von Hugel again,
'
are not two material bodies, of
which one can only be where the other is not ;
but, on the contrary, as regards our own spirit,
God's Spirit ever works in closest penetration and
stimulation of our own ; just as, in return, we
cannot find God's Spirit simply separate from our
own spirit within ourselves. Our spirit clothes
and expresses His ;
His Spirit first creates and then
sustains and stimulates our own.'
It may well be that on this doctrine of the inter-
penetration of realities, the practical theology of
the future will be built. Nor is it to be suspected
as a disguised pantheism. No theologian of the
modern world has been more consistent and em-
phatic than Von Hugel in his warnings concerning
the impoverishment and perversion of the religious
sense which comes from opening the door to any
kind of pantheistic monism. These words are the
words of a teacher intensely concerned to safeguard
those twin truths of the eternal distinctness of God
SPIRIT AS PERSON 27
and the derivative being of man, without which
we can never hope to construct a sane and realistic,
because humble and creaturely, theology of the
Spirit.
The pendulum swing of religious experience and
religious thought has tended sometimes to over-
stress one, and sometimes the other, of these twin
truths. Sometimes it is God's utter distinctness
which is overwhelmingly felt ;
as when Karl Barth
exclaims that He stands
'
over against man and all
that is human, nowhere and never identical with that
which we call God the unconditioned Halt as against
all human action, and the unconditioned Action
as against all human rest '. This profound religious
intuition, if taken alone, must land us in virtual or
actual Deism ; and sterilizes the germ-cells of the
spiritual life. Sometimes, on the other hand, it is
God's immanence in, and total possession of, the
soul which is most actual to us ; and this, unbalanced
by its
completing opposite, prepares the way for
that pantheism which ever lies in wait for the
exclusive mystic. Only the Christian theology of
the Holy Spirit seems able to safeguard the deep
truths in both these extremes, and by carrying them
up to a higher synthesis, to create a landscape wide
enough and rich enough for all the varied experiences
pf
the spiritual life. The solemn awe with which
we abase ourselves before, the numen is here softened
and humanized by the humble and loving response
of human nature in its totality to the Divine Nature
incarnate in Christ, and there disclosing on the
28 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
[ narrow stage of history the ultimate mystery of
j redeeming love. And this outward gaze of faith is
saved from a mere hopeless contemplation of the
Other and the Perfect by the veritable experience
of a Spirit of Love and Will already working
'
in
closest penetration and stimulation of our own
'
;
a source of energy, and also a personal influence.
So here we have three experiences or revelations of
God-Spirit, each compensating and enriching the
rest. And while every Godward tending soul will
perhaps combine them in a different manner, and
for none will their outlines be quite clear and neat,
there is no healthy life of the spirit in which some
response to each facet of this threefold revelation is
not found.
f
'f
K So by the Christian doctrine of the Spirit we mean
*
God Himself in His holy reality and love, in so far
as these can be known to us : the utter distinctness
of His Eternal Being, yet His intimate cherishing
care for His whole creation. We do not mean some
immaterial energy, the soul of an evolving universe.
We mean a substantial Reality, which is there first
in its absolute perfection and living plenitude ;
which transcends yet penetrates our world, our
activity, our souls, and draws its transforming
power from the fact that it is already perfect.
'
Holy
'
Spirit, transcendent and dynamic, is at
once other than our own spirits, other than the
'
spirit of nature
'
; yet felt and known, in its ecstasy
of divine generosity, in all the splendours of creation.
And because truly living, personal, free, it is most
SPIRIT AS PERSON 29
sharply and personally known, most deeply oper-
ative, in the secret intercourse and discipline of the
interior life of man. That Spirit infinitely exceeds
while it informs the created ;
not merely in degree,
but also in kind. Even the most feeble and fleeting 1
religious experience is enough to assure us of that.
It is not subject to the conditions of the striving
evolutionary process, but free and distinct ; and
therefore able to intervene, pour out dowers of life
and light, and reveal actual but unguessed levels of
reality beyond the finite structure of the natural
world. -
m
Thus the twin names of
'
Spirit
'
and
'
Heavenly
Father
'
do give us a sort of picture, imperfect but
suggestive, of a Reality which satisfies our meta-
physical cravings and is known in the fundamental
experience of praying souls. First, the certitude
of a most rich and living Fact, yet quite invisible
and unearthly ; a region of Spirit truly here, and
already found in our first steps over the threshold
of the sensible, yet stretching away to the unsearch-
able depths of the Divine life. And next, the
penetrating and cherishing character of that World
and Presence ;
so that the impact of its life upon
us is also the impact of its love. This double sense
of God so near and all-penetrating, so steady in
His pressure of the soul towards generosity, purity,
nobleness, and yet so far away in His achieved
perfection of that same generosity, purity and noble-
nessthis is the very heart of human religion.
And as we hold these two facts together in medita-
30 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
tion that boundless Reality, in its delightfulness
and wonder, this intimate, heart-piercing care our
own world shrinks, the world of daily life and even
the greater world of religion ; and we know that it
only has significance as the theatre of that ceaseless
and many-levelled Divine Act. Then, penetrating
all those finite facts, both physical and psychological,
which make up the environment and conditioning
character of our life, we know an Infinite Fact,
personal and creative, whose moulding pressure and
demands reach us through and in that finite environ-
ment to which our natural lives are tuned. For if
the lovely natural scene is like a great fresco where
we see the breadth and splendour of the thought, of
God, the soul is like a little bit of ivory, on which
the same Artist works with an intimate and detailed
love.
Such a doctrine of the holy, living Spirit's mould-
ing action can never be translated into the terms of
'
emergent evolution
'
or other process : because it
is of the essence of Christian philosophy, endorsed
by Christian experience, to hold that Spirit is there
first.
'
With thee is the well of life
'
the prime
originating cause. Therefore, while Christian philo-
sophy can in a general sense accept and spiritualize
the evolutionary account of natural process, it cannot
accept as complete the evolutionary account of
cause. Beyond and within the natural, it requires
the supernatural ;
if all that has been revealed to
it is to be expressed. And even the wholly natural,
seen in spiritual regard, reveals in ever-deepening
SPIRIT AS PERSON 31
degrees a quality which points beyond itself. Thus
Gerard Hopkins :
'
The World is charged with the grandeur of God.
It will flanie out, like shining from shook foil;
It gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil
Crushed ...
. . . Nature is never spent ;
There lives the dearest freshness deep down things ;
And though the last lights off the black West went
Oh, morning, at the brown brink eastward, springs
Because the Holy Ghost over the bent
World broods with warm breast and with ah !
bright
wings.'
The warm breast, fount of creative and cherishing
life, is turned earthwards : the bright wings, spread
out upon another, a transcendent, free, and perfect
order of existence, reflect the radiance of Eternity.
Surely a wonderful image of the Divine double
action, and the Divine double love.
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT
IF
the first term of our inquiry,
'
God is
Spirit ',
requires of us the most awestruck and unearthly
conception of God, and opens the door to the
fullest supernaturalism, the second term,
'
Heavenly
Father ', is found to bring Spirit within reach of
sense; the spaceless into space. It qualifies the
dreadful vision of the numinous by the soul's own
experience of ultimate dependence on a creative and
cherishing power. It guarantees the inexhaustibly
deep and mysterious doctrines of Providence and
Divine Love those dearest treasures of faith. It
opens the door alike to mystical and to sacramental
religion : the humble self-giving of God Present
along the tortuous paths of the created mind, and
through the consecration of homely created things.
'
It is clear ', says St. John of the Cross,
'
that
God, in order to set a soul in movement, and raise
it from one extreme, the abjection of the creature,
to the opposite extreme, that is to the infinite height
of the divine union, must act gradually, gently, and
in accordance with the nature of the soul. Now
the ordinary mode of knowledge proper to the soul
requires the use of the forms and images of created
32
|
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT 33
things ;
for we can know and savour nothing with-
out the stimulation of the senses. Hence God, to
raise the soul to supreme knowledge and do it with
gentleness,
must begin to touch her in her lowest
extremity, that of the senses, in order to raise her
gradually and in accordance with her proper nature
to her other extremity that spiritual wisdom which
is independent of the senses. . . . God works man's
perfection according to man's nature. He begins
with that which is lowest and most external, and
ends with that which is highest and most interior.'
In this great passage St. John is speaking of a
far richer, more precise and more penetrating dis-
closure of Spirit, than that general' discovery of
God in Nature which is sometimes gratified with
the name of Nature Mysticism. He is laying down
a principle, at once metaphysical and psychological,
by means of which we may hope to reduce to some
kind of order the tangled witness of
'
religious ex-
perience
'
; and sift out the facts which its phan-
tasies veil and reveal. For now, having abandoned
all demand for a clear-cut definition of the word
'
Spirit ', and accepted instead its concrete and
mysterious presence and our own fragmentary, un-
even experience and response, we are brought to a
further problem How has man, a sense-conditioned
creature committed to succession, come to be aware
of this supersensual and unchanging Reality ? And
we have already replied that this knowledge comes
not by our own explorations but by the prevenient
action and incitement of God-Spirit, by the entry
34 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
of the Spaceless into space in a broad sense, by
revelation. Reality must stir and touch its half-
made creature, before it can be desired. God must
reach in to us, before we can reach out to Him.
And St. John's doctrine gives us the path which
we may expect that revelation to take.
In order to move the human soul with gentleness,
Spirit makes Its approach, in a way at once majestic
and humble, through the
'
forms and images
'
of
that sensible world to which we are adjusted and
in which we are bathed. These forms, these
creatures just because they possess their own
finite independence and reality, because they are
true creations and not dreams are capable of carry-
ing the reality of the Infinite ; providing, as it were,
points of insertion for the self-giving energies of the
all-enfolding supernatural world. Without some
admixture of sense, like dust in sunny air, we are,
says St. John again, almost incapable of perceiving
the spiritual light. And were it not for this stooping
down of the Infinite to the finite, this mingling of
Spirit with sense, the direct impact of the Absolute
might well shatter us.
'
It is a dreadful thing to
fall into the hands of the Living God.' Those veils
and obscurities at which we sometimes cavil are the
garments of mercy upon the Spirit of Holiness.
Looking with reverence on the human scene, and
seeking to realize our situation, conditioned by the
senses and yet susceptible to the deep currents of the
spiritual world, we begin to perceive how wide is
the field within which this principle of Spirit's
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT 35
penetration of our spirits by way of the objects of
sense can interpret our baffling glimpses and experi-
ences of Reality. In the light of this principle, it is
easy to recognize in the most deeply valued practices
and hallowed objects of organized religion, points of
insertion through which the quickening action of the
Spirit can reach the faithful and receptive soul.
And though this may not
'
explain
'
the mysterious
communications we call sacramental grace, at least
we obtain a formula within which to place them.
As a vast area of supernatural truth, still unex-
hausted by us, is condensed, focused, and flooded
upon the natural world through the person of Christ
so, limited incarnations of Spirit take place
through the symbolic and sacramental acts of
religion. Re'cejac's definition of mysticism as 'the
tendency to approach the Absolute morally and by
means of symbols
'
told only half the truth. It is
also through and in symbols, bridging the chasm
between sense and spirit, that the Absolute without
any reduction of an utter transcendence and other-
ness makes Its merciful approach to the spirit of
man,
'
When that supernatural Light of which
we speak', says St. John of the Cross, 'enters the
soul in its simple purity, independent of aU those
intelligible things which are proportioned to our
understanding, the understanding is not irradiated
and sees nothing.' Hence the wise tenacity with
which historical .Christianity has clung to liturgic
and sacramental embodiments of the Holy, and sur-
rounded them with mystery and awe, is justified.
4
36 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
Hence too the inevitable impoverishment which
follows their neglect or repudiation. How tiny,
even at the best, these points of insertion must be,
and how limited the communication in comparison
with the Reality conveyed, will be apparent to all
in whom arrogance has not reached the dimensions
of disease. For they are adapted to the narrow
capacity of the creature ;
and the communication
received, though its substance be always whole and
unchanging, will vary in its richness according to
the heart to which it comes.
Christians must regard the historical Incarnation
as the greatest of all such insertions of Spirit into
history ;
and the transfigured lives of the Saints as
guaranteeing its continuance in the world. Jesus
Himself is
'
incarnate by the Spirit
'
: a metaphysical
truth to which we sometimes fail to give full weight,
for indeed there lies behind it the full pressure of the
supernatural world. In His earthly life we see
Spirit's action, in and through a human personality
entirely God-possessed ;
the Absolute Life mingled
with the sensible and contingent, and only in rare
moments revealing Its presence and power. We see
the rich and inexhaustible significance of actions
and events which might never, without this relation-
ship, have emerged from the flux of use and wont ;
but, seized upon as the stuff of revelation, now glow
and deepen like an opal, which rewards our steadfast
contemplation with new colour and new light.
'
God the incomprehensible makes Himself compre-
hensible in this humanity/ says Berulle,
'
God the
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT 37
ineffable becomes audible in the voice of His Word
incarnate, and God the invisible is seen, in the
flesh which He has united with the very nature of His
Eternity.'
And thus, the lowly birth, the call and preaching
of a local prophet, His communion with God and
compassionate ministry among men, His conflicts
with ecclesiastical authority, each detail of His
betrayal and death all this historical material,
which is the substance of the plain narratives of the
Synoptics, is lifted to a fresh order of significance.
The events of Christ's life are well named
'
mysteries
'
for their meaning transcends the historical accidents
and occasions which condition their outward form,
and has an immortal relation with the interior life
of men. There is a mounting revelation of the
Spirit, in and through this uttered Thought, the
incarnate Word. The point of insertion has behind
it the wealth and pressure of the Infinite Life. So
we should not accept the fragmentary narratives and
simple insights of the New Testament writers as
telling all the truth ;
or reject as unhistorical the
discoveries and interpretations of the saints. Cen-
turies of meditation have widened and deepened the
channel of revelation. The procession of the Spirit
takes place in the Eternal order ;
and through
Bethlehem and Calvary, Hermon and the Upper
Room, a wealth of life and light which is not yet
exhausted comes to wide-open, self-oblivious souls.
'All these events', says Berulle, 'took place in
certain circumstances ; but they endure, and are
38 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
become present and perpetual, in another manner.
They are past as regards their execution, but they
are present as regards their power . . . the Spirit
of God, whereby the Mystery was worked, is the
abiding fact of which it is the outer vesture. His
efficacy and power make the mystery operative in
us, and He is ever living, actual, and present in it.
This compels us to treat the things and mysteries
of the Gospel, not as things past and dead, but as
things living and present, and even eternal, from
which we also must gather a present and eternal
fruit.'
The principle here laid down one aspect of that
great law of the creative penetration of Spirit into
sense on which all Christian philosophy is built
operates over the whole of the historical and insti-
tutional material of religion ; indeed, over its literary
and artistic material as well. All this, used with
simplicity and meekness, can become the medium
of spiritual communications which may far transcend
the insights or intentions of those by whom it was
first devised. The simplest facts of historical
religion, or the commonplaces of devotional litera-
ture, subject to the penetrative action of Spirit, can
thus acquire a transcendental reference ;
and enter
the sacramental economy. Not merely the common
experience of a constant new discovery of deep
meaning in familiar acts and words, but that large
range of phenomena which we are inclined to set
aside because of their comparative rarity, fall under
the general method by which, as St. John says, God
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT 39
'
sets a soul in movement
'
towards that centre which
is Himself. Here we get a clue and can give a
meaning to those
'
openings
'
as the Quakers so
excellently called them, well known to all who are
accustomed to the meditative reading of Scripture
and other spiritual books ;
when our
'
condition
'
is directly met by way of words long familiar, but
now suddenly lit
up from within, transformed and
enriched by the living Spirit which enters through
this loophole our closely-shuttered minds. In such
moments, a real communication of the Infinite to
the finite takes place.
'
There is in books ', said
the Divine voice to Thomas a Kempis,
'
one voice
and one letter that is read, but it informeth not all
alike. For I am within secretly hidden in the letter,
the Teacher of truth, the Searcher of man's heart.'
Few persons possessed of religious sensitiveness
pass through life without experiencing such abrupt
illuminations ; which, transcending any psycho-
logical explanation, must be reckoned however
little we understand them among the mysterious
facts of the spiritual life. And it is, I think, by
an extension of this same principle that we arrive
at the interpretation of the more abnormal forms
of religious experience. All those psychic auto-
matisms which are loosely described as
'
mystical
phenomena voices, visions, the
'
sense of Pres-
ence ', the profound mono-ideism of the contem-
plative are certainly susceptible of psychological
explanation ; and may witness to nothing more
than the vigour of the subject's own fantasy-life.
40 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
But this does not invalidate them as possible points
of insertion, through which Spirit acts on the soul.
It is easy enough to adopt the lowest possible ex-
planation of observed events ;
but when these events
- are placed in their context, the inadequacy of this
proceeding becomes plain. The significant fact is
not that certain types of religious hallucination
occur ;
but that they can and sometimes do mediate
the Transcendent. Thus any one who is inclined
to mystical audition, even in the slight degree which
precludes real hallucination, will recognize two facts.
First, the immense authority that is felt to inhere in
the message ;
which is always abrupt and unex-
pected, and comes charged with a weight of signifi-
cance out of all proportion to the simplicity of its
form. Secondly, the close union between this
entirely spiritual communication and the verbal
formula in which it is received ; and which ever
afterwards carries a certain sacramental reference.
There seems to be a difference of degree, rather than
of kind, between such an experience as this and the
apparent reception of an other-worldly truth and
light by Scripture
'
openings '. When St. Francis,
in absorbed contemplation of the Crucifix, heard the
words
'
Repair My Church ', we may surely believe
that here the guiding energy of Spirit touched and
moved him, even though the form of the communi-
cation was supplied by his own sensory memories.
But was this message more supernatural than that
which he received when he sought to verify the
vocation of Bernard of Quintavalle by the opening
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT 41
of the Missal, and there found an equally clear com-
mand ? Both are impressive examples of the
apparent action of Spirit in and through the channels
of sense : a judgement that is supported by the series
of events which they set in movement. They only
differ by the fact that in the first case the sensory
medium is provided by the experient's own mind ;
while in the second it has objective existence.
And the same gradation can surely be observed
in those apprehensions which use the machinery of
sight. The glimmering Presence, deeply felt and
almost seen, may be caught and held in the mesh
of a pictured thought : whilst on the other hand,
the sacred act or object which conveys
'
otherness
'
cannot be distinguished in principle from the image
which is projected from the mind of the visionary
to become a focus of transcendental feeling. Some-
times indeed the actual distinction between the
contributions of Spirit and of sense becomes very
thin ;
and we realize how slight is its importance for
us. Thus for St. Gregory or St. Thomas saying Mass,
the material veil becomes transparent ; and within
and beyond it they gaze entranced on the eternal
Act, perceived under an image which is either
visualized or apprehended without sight. And this
double experience of the fusion of outward act and
inward revelation is surely a typical instance of that
general method, by which Spirit moves and teaches
spirit :
'
working man's perfection according to
man's nature
'
through the machinery of sense.
Here the soul trembles on the edge of something
42 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
it can never formulate. Sacred acts and phrases
become charged with a supersensual light, in which
at last they are lost. But it is because the act and
the phrase have become condensers of the mysterious
energy of Spirit, that the soul achieves by their help
the subsequent transcendence of all apparent form.
Nor need the poor quality of the condenser affect
the experience it mediates. God-Spirit, Who is the
indwelling principle of the outward mystery, acts
through the form and image ; subduing to His pur-
pose the adequate and the inadequate alike. The
hymn which the highbrow rejects may yet become a
channel of adoration ;
and celestial love be recog-
nized through the most deplorable efforts of religious
art. The poorest picture, the crudest aspiration,
then as it were becomes flood-lit from within ;
charged with an unspeakable holiness. The sick
man gazing hour after hour at and through a badly
modelled Crucifix, and thus entering ever more
deeply into the mystery of love and pain, has an
experience of Spirit denied to the exquisite taste
which rejects all images except the very best. The
insistence of all contemplatives on a secret Divine
teacher as Bremond puts it,
'
the fundamental
and exclusively divine experience from which all
else radiates
'
helps us to a fuller understanding of
all that is implied in this, and teaches us the justice
of Berulle's observation :
'
Who would hold any-
thing mean where all is so great, and where each
thing, however small it may be, yet touches so
closely Divinity Itself ?
'
THE REVELATION OF SPIRIT 43
Nor does the origin, first meaning, or historic
sanction of the conveying image matter very much.
Those Psalms in which the soul finds mirrored its
own intense experience, bore a wholly different
meaning sometimes more barbarous than religious
for those who used them first. Humble tunnelling
will discover beneath the most unpromising land-
scape the spiritual gold. Many a dubious devotion
has contributed to the formation of a saint. Our
fastidious discriminations fade to insignificance
before the overwhelming majesty of that generous
Life and Love, which enters by these narrow portals
the sense-conditioned life of men.
O Lux beatissima,
Reple cordis intima
Tuorum fidelium.
Sine tuo numine,
Nihil est in homine,
Nihil est innoxium.
What is the human creature, that it should make its
little terms, either logical or aesthetic, in a bargain
so wholly one-sided as this ?
SPIRITUAL LIFE
CREATED SPIRIT
SO
now we turn from these scattered and ten-
tative thoughts of God, the Absolute Spirit
distinct and all-holy ; standing over against
His human creatures, yet intimately present in
every fibre of the soul. And we enter on a fuller
consideration of our own case.
'
My God and all !
What art thou and what am I ?
'
said St. Francis.
What is man, the derived, created spirit ? In what
sense is that mysterious word to be applied to our
strangely compounded human personality ?
It is a platitude that man is amphibious, a creature
of the borderland
'
set between the unseen and the
seen '. He cannot be explained in physical terms
alone, or spiritual terms alone ;
but partakes of
both worlds. But, like many other so-called plati-
tudes, this one conveys a stupendous truth which is
seldom fully realized by us : the truth of our unique
status, our mysterious capacity for God. Man's
relation to the animal world needs no demonstration.
A stroll round the Zoo reveals plenty of disconcerting
family likenesses. A very little introspection dis-
45
46 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
covers animal instincts, politely disguised, in control
of our normal behaviour. In moments of passion,
the standards of the jungle still make an irresistible
appeal. Physically we rank as a part of that rich
and varied natural order, which is brought forth and
maintained by the Divine Immanence. Yet on the
other hand, we are called to witness to the Divine
Transcendence. There is in us a ground and know-
ledge of Eternity, a thirst for ultimates, a penetrating
sense of incompleteness which is the true cause of our
secret unrest ;
whatever the disguises it may assume.
A certitude, a dim but real experience of another
world and level of life, in contact with our deepest
selves, grows with our interior growth.
'
So foolish
was I and ignorant, I was as a beast before Thee ;
and yet, I am continually with Thee/ Beyond and
within the web of temporal circumstance which
seems to shut us in, is that steadfast brooding
Presence, the Fact of all facts, Who is making us for
Himself. Natural man may be subject to contin-
gency, metaphysical man is in the Hand of God :
and knowledge of this situation and all it must imply
for us, deepens with our increase in spiritual sensi-
tiveness. Anchored to this planet, with our obvious
animal affinities and more obvious spiritual obscuri-
ties and limitations, we cannot describe ourselves or
account for our mysterious situation, without re-
course to other-worldly categories. When we pene-
trate beyond the sensible, we discover in ourselves
a substantial life which is non-successive, non-
extended ;
we perceive ourselves to be derived
CREATED SPIRIT 47 ,
^
spirits,
somehow akin to the holy Spirit of all spirits,
God. There is within us at least a crumb, a seed,
which belongs already to the order of the timeless ;
yet cannot achieve its destiny, become fully real,
without a gift from beyond itself. And here we
find the basis in experience for all that religion
means by prayer and grace prayer, the Godward
movement of the soul ;
and grace, the manward
movement of God's Love.
'
Man ', says Lionel Thornton,
'
cannot evade the
ultimate conviction that his true home is in the
eternal order ;
and that his individuality was meant
to reach its fulfilment through the transforming
activity of that order on his life.' And the first
meaning of a spiritual life is, that in it man accepts
this marvellous intercourse as the ruling fact of his
existence. He ceases to give exclusive attention to
the passing, to pour himself out in response to the
invitations of sense, and looks towards this, his true
being ; on one hand quietly receiving in his ground
the action of God, on the other freely seeking to
conform to the eternal order, instead of to the
natural series alone. No psychology which ignores
this double status and double response of the
unstable psyche, poised between eternity and time,
can give any intelligible explanation of human
action and human desire.
Certainly our conscious hold on this spiritual
heritage is still far less clear and certain than our
hold on our physical heritage. Our powers have
been developed in close contact with the senses, and
48 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
by the pressure of the physical world, with its con-
stant stimulation of the instinctive life. Clear
correspondence with the other order must be the
prerogative of a minority of souls, acting in the
interests of the race. We may note certain facts,
certain recurrent experiences, though we know little
about them ;
and may seek to combine and present
them under images. But we do this, not because we
have any hope of reaching ultimate truth in these
matters, but in order to tell souls how to act. All
descriptions of the spiritual life are thus tentative
and symbolic. They are road maps, not representa-
tions of reality. We move with comparative safety
step by step ;
but we risk mountain sickness, if we
raise our eyes too often to the awful landscape that
surrounds us.
For our minds are so made that we can only realize
Spirit vaguely and in patches ; and only by the
deliberate use of symbolic speech can give precision
to our awareness. When we ascend in prayer to the
soul's summit, we find we have come up to the
frontiers of another life, in respect of which we are
dependent, needy, dumb and dim of sight. Yet this
abjection and this poverty are the very conditions
of our happiness and wealth.
Veni, pater pauperum.
So here Religion is
justified in her insistence on the
blessed state of the childlike and the humble : her
constant reminder that what matters supremely is
not our own exact degree of understanding, but the
CREATED SPIRIT 49
tiold which the spiritual order has on us, and the
power which flows from it through surrendered and
"
self-oblivious personalities. In other words, in the
great strange work of man's spiritualization the
initiative ever lies with God and His Spirit, not with
us. His priority is absolute. We realize, then, why
the life of the spirit so often begins in a sense of
personal incompleteness, of dependence and need :
and why man's progress in spirituality, his interior
growth, is felt at its deepest far more as a response
to that Spirit's incitement than as a deliberate
ascent to new levels of life. It is, in fact, an opening
of the door of the finite to the Infinite Love, an
increasing surrender to the subtle pressure of that
Power
'
which ever lifts and bears us
'
; not a self-
actualized adventure of the independent will and
heart, a pilgrim's steady progress from
'
this world
to that which is to come '.
'
Unto Him who is everywhere ', says St.
Augustine,
'
we come by love and not by naviga-
tion.' Talk of the
'
Mystic Way
'
and its stages, or
the
'
degrees of love ', may easily deceive us unless
the Divine immanence, priority, and freedom be ever
kept in mind. We may think of the soul's essential
being as ever lying within the thought of God ; and,
equally, of His creative love as dwelling and acting
within that soul's ground. These are contrasting
glimpses of that total Truth
'
of which no man may
think '. And the true life of the spirit requires such
a gradual self-abandonment to that prevenient and
all-penetrating Presence that we become at last its
50 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
unresisting agents ;
are formed and shaped under
its gradual pressure, and can receive from moment
to moment the needed impulsions and lights.
Veni, lumen cordium.
Here we find a place for that mysterious attraction
or compulsion which is perhaps the most striking of
the ordinary evidences of the Holy Spirit's action
on souls. The persistent inexplicable pressure
towards one course the curious attraction to one
special kind of devotion or of service the blocking of
the obvious path, and the opening of another unde-
sired path all these witness to the compelling and
moulding power of the living Spirit ; taking, and if
we respond, receiving the gift of our liberty and
our will.
This indeed is what the spiritual life has always
seemed to the greatest, humblest, and most enlight-
ened souls ;
whatever symbols they may use in their
efforts to communicate it. It is God, vividly and
intimately present in all things and in us, ever setting
the demand of His achieved Perfection over against
the seething energies of His creative love, Who works
in and through that world of things on us. And He
demands our entire subjection to His creative action,
our endurance of His secret chemistry ;
that He
may work through and in us on the world. We
matter and our transformation matters, only in so
far as we and it contribute to God's total purpose
the only thing that matters at^all.
This is the double
truth which colours and harmonizes all the various
CREATED SPIRIT 51
strands of man's religious life, and finds intimate and
detailed expression in the facts of conversion, voca-
tion, and guidance. For by this secret action, so
little understood, the fluid and changeable nature of
man, at first conformed to that natural series within
which our lives arise, is gradually subdued to the
purposes of the Unchanging ; to become at last a
channel of Absolute Life, an agent of the Creative
Will. The Psalter and the Christian liturgy, in
which so much of that life is crystallized, and
which possess the deep and genuine realism of all
great works of art, are full of allusions to this
absolute dependence ;
this confident hold on the
Unseen, and its redeeming, cleansing action on the
soul.
'
God make speed to save us. Lord make
haste to help us. ... Prevent us Lord in all our
doings ; further us with thy continual help. Raise
up, we pray thee, thy power and come among us
. . . that we may daily be renewed by thy Holy
Spirit . . '. that so we may be made partakers of the
divine nature. . . . For with thee^s the well of life
and in thy light, we see light./;. . Cleanse the
thoughts of our hearts, by the inspiration of thy
Holy Spirit. . . . Without thee we are not able
to please thee. . . . Assist us with thy grace. . . .
what great troubles and adversities hast thou
shewed me ! and yet didst thou turn and refresh
me ; yea, and broughtest me from the deep of the
earth again.'
In these constantly repeated phrases, once their
5
52 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
profound realism is understood, we can hear the
authentic voice of the human spirit. Like a recur-
ring melody, they bind the Divine Office in one ;
and make of it the supreme expression of the
Godward confidence of men.
II
MAN NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL
AS
we get accustomed to our own psychology,
grow in self-knowledge, we realize ever
more deeply the fact however we may
express it that our being has already its meta-
physical aspect. There is a sense in which it is
true to say that we are not all of a piece. The
human creature seems to be poised uncertainly
between two orders ;
'
waiting the full adoption ',
as St. Paul has it, into the spiritual sphere, yet
already possessing the seed of that true being,
which makes the spiritual sphere its destined home.
Because partly adjusted to each order, it is not
perfectly adjusted to either ;
and this is the cause
of its
instability and its unrest. So the distinction
which was first made by the Platonists, and runs
through the spiritual literature of Christendom,
between our
'
higher
'
and
'
lower
'
nature, our
'
superior
'
and
'
inferior
'
powers, does interpret
and harmonize a wide range of human experience ;
even though it may be incompatible with present
fashions in psychology. In one form or another
and all its forms will be of course symbolic we are
obliged to adopt a two-story diagram of human
53
54 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
nature in any attempt- to describe the characters
and incidents of the spiritual life. We must dis-
tinguish between the instinctive levels of the
psyche, so obviously adjusted to our natural en-
vironment, so vigorous in their response to nature
and their claims on all that nature has to give
and therefore so full of inconvenient factors, once
the merely natural life is left behind and the
will and love which seek another country and
acknowledge another claim. For these strangely
assorted partners lust one against the other, and
continue in their conflict ;
whatever new name
their activities may receive. We may not agree as
to the precise place where the boundary between
them is established : but a boundary there has
got to be.
If there is in us a depth and intensity of being,
a
'
spark of the soul
'
which inheres in God, there
is none the less a ground of our life which is in
close union with the animal realm and animal
desire. In some, the tension between these two
natures is acute ; in others, one manifestly pre-
dominates. Even the most elementary attention
to our own inner movements is enough to assure
us of that ;
and supports the view of St. Frangois
de Sales, that failure to distinguish rightly between
these two levels and their claims causes
'
much
confusion in the thoughts and actions of men '.
The instinctive life of natural self-regard, obeyed
without reflection or resistance, would at last lead
downwards and outwards to the establishment of
MAN NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL 55
a completely animal man ; entirely given over to
succession, acquisitive and combative in the interests
of his own physical survival and well-being, lustful
and ruthless in the interests of the survival of the
race. The other life, the life of the
'
higher powers
'
when they follow their true attraction, leads upwards
and yet inwards towards the transcending alike of
succession and of self-interest ;
to that new level
of correspondence with Creative Spirit at which
St. Paul hints in his mysterious sayings concerning
the
'
glorious liberty of the Children of God '.
And this unearthly orientation is possible to the
creature, because of another, deeper and more
awful truth. The constant references of spiritual'
writers to a certain vital centre of the soul
whether we call it
'
root ',
'
ground
'
or
'
apex
'
where God, the Uncreated Spirit, dwells perman-
ently and substantially, have genuine meaning, and
point to a real fact ;
however symbolic or contra-
dictory the language in which they are expressed.
There is a deep heart in man, which the life of
succession hardly stirs to consciousness, but which
is maintained in a single undivided act of adherence
to the Reality of God. Therefore in part at least
we already belong to the unchanging world of
Spirit ;
and no discussion of it can have value
which does not begin with a humble recognition
of the awful mystery hidden in our own hearts.
'
In every soul, even that of the greatest sinner ',
says St. John of the Cross,
'
God lives and sub-
stantially dwells. This sort of union between God
56 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
and all creatures is an enduring fact.' But the
Saint at once goes on to distinguish between this
substantial immanence of the Creator in the creature,
and that supernatural union which requires of the
creature willed self-giving as the price of transforma-
tion, and is the essence of a spiritual life :
impossible
as this union would be, were it not for the pre-
venient act and presence of God.
'
When we speak of the union of the soul with
God, we set aside this substantial union common to
all created beings, and have in view the transforma-
tion of the soul in God by love. . . . God is always
really in the soul ; by His presence He gives and
conserves its natural being ; but this does not
mean that He always communicates to it super-
natural being. This communication is the fruit of
grace and love, and all souls do not enjoy it. Those
who do, do not all possess it in the same degree,
since their love may be greater or less. Hence we
see that the greater the love, the more intimate is
the union, which means that it is the conformity
of our will to the Will of God which makes our
union with Him more or less perfect. A will
utterly conformed to Him, achieves perfect union
and supernatural transformation in God/
Everything we can say about the spiritual life is
really a gloss and explication of this passage ;
which answers with precision the question
'
What
is a spiritual life ?
'
It is the life of a human
creature which is being transformed in God by
the joint action of His energetic grace and its own
MAN NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL 57
faithful love :
moving through many fluctuations
to that condition in which, as Gerlac Petersen
says,
'
it worketh all its works in God, or rather
God doth work His own works in it ;
so that the
soul worketh not so much itself, but rather is
itself the work of God '. Hence this life as it
grows brings ever wider ranges of our complex
nature within the transforming sway of Holiness ;
which enters the sanctuary of each human person-
ality, there to evoke and nourish its Godward
temper, and transform the crude substance of the
ego as yeast transforms dough.
And perhaps we may say that for most men the
first stage of that life begins at the point in which
the all-penetrating immanent God makes Himself
known to His creature ; and by the mysterious
touch of His eternal Being wakes up that creature's
transcendental sense. For in this same moment
man becomes known to himself in a different way
than ever before.
All year long upon the stage
I dance and tumble and do rage,
So furiously I scarcely see
The inner and eternal Me.
The inner and eternal Me spirit, the meta-
physical self, that most hidden and intimate ground
of personality this is the height or depth at which
we desire God and taste God. With its awakening,
the spiritual life begins. And once more, if we
are to make sense of our experience, this germ of
absolute being which we humbly trust to be our
58 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
truest selves must in some way be distinguished
from the
'
I
'
of our surface activity and response.
'
Souls, human souls ', says Von Hiigel,
'
do not
even begin to attain to their true unity, indeed
they are not really awake, until they are divided
up until the spirit within them begins to dis-
criminate itself against the petty self.' A genuine
introspection will always achieve this discrimina-
tion. Below the natural and rational self of our
surface experience, so nicely adapted to the world
of succession, so ready to assume self-governing
rights, we then become secretly aware of another,
more fundamental life. The experience of the
first self is of the contingent and successive ;
the
experience of the second is of the immediate and
the unchanging. This
'
Me '
is tuned to the mighty
wave-lengths of the world of spirit ;
as
'
I
'
is
tuned to the quickly-changing world of sense.
And even though we are bound to agree with St.
John of the Cross that
'
being spirit, the soul has
neither -upper nor lower part, nor can there be in
her one region deeper than another, as in bodies
which are extended in space, for her interior does
not differ from her surface, since her nature is
uniform throughout
'
nevertheless, we are driven
to spatial images and distinctions, always deceptive
and often inconsistent though they be, in order to
describe her experiences and discriminate that
'
ground
'
or
'
fine point
'
of the spirit, the real
seat of the religious instinct, at which man knows
his own true being and tastes God,
MAN NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL 59
Deep in every soul there is a little chamber, where
great stillness reigns and the torrent of succession
seems to cease. And though the term of our spiritual
growth must surely be the unification of the whole
nature
'
in the bonds of love ', the opening of the
door of the inner fastness so that the music of its
quiet reaches every corner of the home -it does
begin in the clear recognition of this cleavage, this
difference in kind between the life of spirit tuned
to eternity and the life of sense tuned to time.
For the life of sense is always at the mercy of inward
passion and external accidents. It is for ever
falling down into multiplicity ;
is claimful, turbulent,
uneven. But in the 'upper region of the soul',
says Caussade,
'
God and His Will produce an
Eternity always even, always uniform, always still.
In this wholly spiritual region, where the uncreate,
the indistinct, the ineffable keep the soul at an
infinite distance from all the shadowy multiplicities
of the created world, we abide in peace even though
the senses be given over to the storm '.
First from one angle and then from another, all
the great teachers of the spiritual life seek a formula
which can express their deep conviction of this
twofold nature of man these partners which should
complete each other, but are more often at war.
They feel that those levels of consciousness which
are in close alliance with the physical, and so
more or less at the mercy of sense-impressions and
instinctive movements, and give us material which
can be dealt with by logical thought, must be
60 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
distinguished from those which seek virtually or
actually the Vision of the Principle, beyond
logical thought.
'
Sensitive nature
'
is turned earth-
wards and selfwards. The
'
fine point
'
of the spirit
is turned Godwards. And two sorts of knowledge
are felt to belong to these two levels of life. One
is clear, detailed, practical : it deals with the world
which the senses show us. The other is luminous,
universalized, indistinct : but it assures us of the
unchanging realities of Spirit, baffling and attracting
the soul. At its highest it is, as the mystics say,
a
'
tasting wisdom ', the indivisible fulfilment of
contemplation and of love. And in certain mys-
terious activities and interests of man in poetry,
art, music, above all in the sacramental acts of
visible religion the -two forms of knowledge mingle ;
and news from the world of Spirit is conveyed by
the channels of sense. How best to define the
contrast and unity which exists between these
two levels of life, and between the two forms of
knowledge which we attribute to
'
intuition
'
and
to
'
thought ', is a permanent problem of religious
psychology.
The human sense of God, the craving for eternal
life, the metaphysical passion of the soul stretching
from fear through wonder to delight this, what-
ever aspect we choose to emphasize, whatever
name we use, is the distinctive character of man.
Here we discover the embryonic characters which
point to his spiritual destiny. This stretching-out
of the self towards something which lies beyond
MAN NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL 61
succession and beyond sense this
'
metaphysic of
the saints
'
is the fact which lies at the root of
all religion. 'To Thee do I lift
up. mine eyes
Thou that dwellest in the heavens !
'
Even if that
only happened once, it would make a determinist
view of reality very difficult. But as a matter of
fact it happens again and again : and the real work
in us of that balancedjdiscipline of-.prayer..and..self-
con"qu(esj,;whkh_js_t^_essence of a spiritual life,
is to close the gap sometimes wide, sometimes
narrow, always deep between sensitive nature,
swayed by instinct and full of conflict and disquiet,
and the soul's ground or apex, which is turned
towards God and desires God.
A fully expanded spiritual life need not be one
which seems to the world given over to the obvious
practice either of devotion or good works. But it
must be given over with a generous docility to the
total purposes of Spirit ; correctly adjusted to
reality. Bit by bit the all-demanding Spirit must
achieve undivided sway over the surface-I, as
well as over the eternal Me : 'harmonize and weld
them into a single" Instrument of the Will. The
life of the Me is an essential prayer. Its very
existence consists in an adherence to God. The
ceaseless unexpressed aspiration of its being is that
Fiat mihi secundum verbum tuum which opens the
gate of the heart to the Absolute Life. And this
essential prayer is to overflow into those restless
and insurgent
'
lower powers
'
which correspond with
the world of the senses ; calming, steadying,
62 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
strengthening and enlightening, and creating a
complete personality which shall be a free yet
dependent centre of the Divine creative life. For
the goal of our spiritual growth is not some special
beatitude, some peculiar condition of awareness,
but humble and useful co-operation with God.
When we understand this, the stages and incidents
of that growth are better understood, its sufferings
and derelictions fall into place. All are seen to
result from the dependence of our little spirits on
God's infinite Spirit, and to be ways in which that
Spirit works in and through us, to the accomplish-
ment of a hidden design. For Man, says St. Thomas,
'
in so far as he is moved to act by the Spirit of
God, becomes in a certain sense an instrument of
God
'
;
and every phase of the spiritual life can be
brought under this law. And it is a chief paradox
of that life that its growth in power and initiative',
its capacity for heroic and creative action, advances
step by step with the creature's realization of a
total responsibility and yet a total dependence
upon God energizing deeply and freely, but in
perfect self-abandonment to the one Divine energy
and act. 'I live, yet not I.'
Ill
CREATIVE SPIRIT
WE
cannot, as Von Hiigel said, find God's f>
Spirit
'
simply separate
'
from our own
spirit ;
since the one impossibility of
thought is the leaving of the thinking self behind.
Still less can we isolate and observe that spirit,
that seed of Absolute Life which is in us, apart from
the supporting, spaceless, penetrating God. To
speak of our spiritual life and our spiritual growth,
then, is to speak not of ourselves but of Him ;
for
we are daring to behold and describe the Divine
creative action in its most subtle and mysterious
operation, working in
'
intimate union with our
own '. It is true that there are many ways and
degrees in which we may discover this fact of the
ceaseless action of Spirit upon spirit ;
mediated as
it is through all those physical and psychological
experiences which make up the texture of our lives.
One way or another, in times of crisis, in sudden
moments of clear vision, in the terrible embrace of
ghostly suffering or by gradual meditation on the
sequence of events, the slow insistent pressure,
which changes the contour of our life, giving it a
shape and meaning of which we never dreamed
63
64 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
we become aware of the presence of an Infinite
Fact, living, personal, inerrant ;
whose moulding
influence reaches us through and in that finite
environment to which our outer lives are tuned.
We know the mysterious power of influence
between man and man ;
know it so well, that we
seldom pause to think of its strangeness and signifi-
cance how decisively it witnesses against any
theory of the soul as an independent monad. Yet
this interpenetration of human spirits is a mere
shadow of the deep and actual penetration and
influence of God on souls. And though news of
this steadfast creative action, this supporting and
stimulating presence of God must like all our
other news enter the field of consciousness through
the senses or the intellect, translating intuition into
concepts and sensible signs ;
these only partly
reveal and certify that deep action of Spirit upon
and within our spirits, which is
literally the life of
our life. Sometimes it seems that we are bathed
in a living Ocean, that pours into every corner of
our being to cleanse, heal and refresh. Sometimes
it seems that a personal energy compels, withstands,
enlightens or suddenly changes us ; working on our
stubborn natures with a stern, unflinching love.
Yet even this language, vague as it may seem, is
still far too rigid and too spatial, and these con-
trasting images too harsh and incomplete, for a
situation and experience which only the allusive
methods of poetry or inspiration can suggest.
There is on the north porch of the Cathedral of
CREATIVE SPIRIT 65
Chartres a wonderful sculpture of the creation of
Adam. There we see the embryonic human crea-
ture, weak, vague, half-awakened, not quite formed,
like clay on which the artist is still working : and
brooding over him, with His hand on His creature's
head, the strong and tender figure of the Artist-
Creator. Creative Love, tranquil, cherishing,
reverent of His material, in His quiet and patient
method : so much more than human, yet meeting
His half-made human creature on its own ground,
firmly and gradually moulding it to His unseen
pattern, endowing it with something of His own
life. It is a vision of the Old Testament seen in
the transfiguring light of the New Testament. The
/ will of an Absolute Power translated into the
/ desire of an Absolute Love ;
awful holiness reach-
ing out to earthly weakness, and wakening it to
new possibilities. Now this situation is surely the
situation of all living souls ;
and the very essence of
their spiritual life is or should be the lifting up of
the eyes of Adam, the not yet fully human creature
who is being made, in his weakness and hope, to
the holy creative love which never lets him go, and
in which his life is to find its meaning and goal.
It is true that the half-awakened Adam, stirring
to consciousness, can give no exact meaning to the
strange experiences that seem to reach him : the
sudden or gradual changes, sharp pinches, smooth
pressures or enlargements, by means of which he is
being conformed to the secret type. He is still
rather dazed by his situation ; Eden itself is not
66 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
clear to him yet. The true character of the Divine
action is blurred by its passage through the world
of succession. He sees and feels the Potter's tools,
but not the Potter's hand
'
acting within the world
and moving all things to their respective ends '.
Yet in prayer he can at least look up towards the
Power that holds him, and so glimpse the truth of
that majestic and delicate action ; working through
circumstance,
'
from one end to another, mightily
and sweetly ordering all things ', and bringing each
created spirit to its appointed state. This humble
glance from the successive to the Abiding this is
the first gesture of recognition, the first spiritual
movement of man.
Thinking of this we begin to realize what is meant
by Maritain's deep saying :
'
Adam sinned when he
fell from Contemplation since then, there has been
a cleavage in man's life '. For sin is the willed
departure of man's spirit from correspondence with
the Spirit of God ;
a thwarting of the creative ideal.
And such a thwarting of life's purpose is to be
expected, when man ceases to look up and out
beyond the world : to lift his eyes to God. Then
he makes a cleavage between vision and action,
departs from that realistic sense of the overruling
Divine action, that
'
Vision of the Principle
'
as St.
Gregory called it, which is the first point of a
spiritual life. Though the Vision of the Principle
is far too great for Adam, and produces, by its very
radiance, the obscurities of faith still this dim
humbling disclosure of the mystery of God's action
CREATIVE SPIRIT 67
does make the creature more supple to the pressure
of the Divine life.
Yet even so, perhaps the image is not quite
complete ; nor the situation rightly seen by us.
For spiritual life consists in a submission, which is
by turns active and passive, to the moulding and
penetrating action of the supernatural order. It
requires a secret collaboration between the soul and
God. The gradual growth and transformation of
the half-made natural creature into an agent of
the Divine creativity a
'
child of God
'
is achieved
by a ceaseless and ever purer correspondence of man's ,
will with the Creative Power. Left to ourselves,
we are wholly unable to rise above our normal
correspondence with the world of succession ;
the
sensitive and natural levels of life.
Spiritual life
begins with a recognition of this humbling truth,
and a willing response to that Spirit already inti-
mately present with us, Who '
first creates and then
sustains and stimulates
'
our childish souls, balancing
each gift by a demand. It is, above all, the touch
of this Creative Spirit acting on and through us,
that we mean when we speak of our
'
experience of
God '.
What this experience can be in depth and richness
for a fully expanded religious sense, is realized when
we read with humility the declarations of the saints ;
for instance, when St. Teresa tells us that it marked
an epoch in, her spiritual life when she
'
learned that
God was present in and with her Himself ;
and not,
as she had been told, by His grace '. For here is a
6
68 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
concrete experience, reported with a realistic
simplicity, of the sustaining and stimulating action
of that Present God. Those words are not chosen
haphazard ; they represent two distinct groups of
experiences, in which we recognize the penetration
of Spirit into sense, the direct action of God on .
human personality. First that steady support
which, as Plotinus says,
'
ever bears us ', whether
we notice it or not : as true an operation of the Holy
Spirit as any abnormal manifestation, or
'
charis-
matic
'
gifts. Next that strange insistent pressure,
reaching men sometimes through outward events,
sometimes by interior ways, which urges them for-
ward on the spiritual path, incites them to those
particular efforts, struggles and sacrifices, through
which they grow up in the supernatural life. For
this life requires from us a response which seems a
paradox : on one hand an utter self-abandonment
to the sustaining power ;
and on the other hand,
because of that abandonment, a vigorous personal
initiative a ceaseless balance and tension, through
and by which our human action, ever more fully
laid open to the Spirit, at last becomes part of the
deep action of God.
This twofold relation of God's infinite Spirit and
man's finite spirit is reflected in our characteristic
religious practices : works of art, born of the deep
Christian instinct for reality, which always seem to
carry a double reference. On one hand there is
the constant acknowledgement of a solid and
objective support given by the Immanent Holy to
CREATIVE SPIRIT 69
its feeble creature a literal response to the great
Advent prayer
'
Raise up, we pray thee, thy power ;
and come among us '. On the other hand, there is
the steady demand on the self's own initiative and
courage ;
on costly willing action, a total self-
donation in the interests of Spirit, which may fulfil
itself by way of homely self-denials or faithful
unconsoled devotion, or may reach the summits of
heroic sacrifice. Man, the slave of the Highest, is
to be at once the patient and the agent of the
Unseen. As that communion in which he receives
the Food of eternal life is given the character of a
sacrifice ;
so every true procession of the Spirit
unites a gift and a demand. The Power comes
first to transform, and then to use, the creature ;
to call out and penetrate its natural energies, and
dedicate them to supernatural ends. For the
dignity of the human soul is this : that not only can
it be transformed in God by, as we say, co-operation
with His grace, but being transformed, living eternal
life, it can also take its part as the agent and tool
of God in the redemptive action of the Holy on the
world. And in this correspondence, so richly
creative, with that Spirit which gives all that it is,
and takes all that we are, we find once more the
secret rhythm and deepest meaning of the spiritual
life.
IV
LIFE FINITE AND INFINITE
AS
we watch life, we realize how deeply this
double fact of God's inciting movement and
the response it evokes from us, enters into
all great action ; and not only that which we
recognize as religious. In all heroic achievements,
and all accomplishment that passes beyond the
useful to seek the perfect, we are conscious of two
factors which cannot be separated but cannot be
confused. There is ever a genuine and costly
personal effort up to the very limit of the self's
endurance : and there is, inciting, supporting and
using this devoted thrust of the creature, this
energetic love, a mighty invading and enveloping
Power. So too in all great historic and religious
movements, we seem to discern a secret incitement
of the corporate action, a hidden Providence, sub-
duing to its purpose the varied energies of men.
For this double strain this re-inforcement of the
temporal by the eternal, and this using of the tem-
poral as a medium for the Absolute Action of God
is present in all history ; though perhaps specially
clear in the religious history of man. It is vividly
present in the birth of the Christian Church at
70
LIFE FINITE AND INFINITE 71
Pentecost, and in the subsequent events of the
period so rightly called charismatic. There we see
on one hand the utter dependence of the small
creature-spirits on the Infinite Life, with its pressure
and its prohibitions. On the other hand, we see
the self-oblivious courage and initiative, the un-
limited confidence .and hope of those same limited
creatures, called to incarliate something of that
Infinite Spirit's will.
'
Greater is he that is in you
than he that is in the world
'
says the Johannine
writer, referring to a recognized truth of experience.
Were we more sensitive to the delicate forces
that enmesh and penetrate us, we should feel the
operation of that Spirit within all circumstance ;
increasing in power and clearness with the degree
of surrender achieved by those who are its instru-
ments. For the Spirit does not work on our small
spirits by way of suppression, but by way of en-
hancement ; and the more complete its conquests,
the more plainly does this truth appear. The saints
are not examples of a limp surrender. In them we
see dynamic personality using all its capacities ;
and acting with a freedom, originality and success
which result from an utter humility, complete self-
loss in the Divine life. In them supremely, will and
grace rise and fall together ; the action of the Spirit
stimulates as well as sustains, requiring of them
vigorous and often heroic action, and carrying
them through desperate sufferings and apparently
impossible tasks. No man was ever more fully
and consciously mastered by the Spirit than St.
72 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
Paul ;
and we know what St. Paul's life was like.
The same is true of St. Hildegard, St. Francis, St.
Catherine of Siena, St. Vincent de Paul.
'
The
human will ', says Dr. Temple,
'
is a more adequate
instrument of the Divine will than any natural
force '. Even more truly we might say that the
human spirit, transformed by love, is .the most
adequate instrument known to us of the Holy
Spirit of God the active energy of the Divine Love
operating in time.
'
I only want one thing,' said Elizabeth Leseur,
'
the accomplishment of your will, in me and by
me '. Since the essence of man is his will and his
love, that quiet saying so easily dismissed as a bit
of piety sums up the human soul's peculiar
destiny, and the very aim of a spiritual life. Meek
self-abandonment to the vast and hidden purposes
of the Spirit, and vigorous selfless action as the
result, are the poles between which the living soul
is called to move. And because it is inherent in
our limited freedom, that our acceptance of this
destiny is, in the last resort, left to us for the
Divine incitement stirs but never overrules Its
creature's will the soul's responsibility over against
God is absolute.
In the fourteenth Canto of the Paradiso, Dante
gives a wonderful picture of the heavenly state of
all courageous souls. It' is not a state of mere
security or passive bliss. He sees the joyful spirits
of brave saints those who took risks, faced suffering,
solitude and darkness, the chivalry of the Spirit of
LIFE FINITE AND INFINITE 73
God dwelling within a great Cross of Light. They
flash to and fro on their various occasions ;
some
upwards to God Pure, and some outwards to His
creation. Each is self-given to his peculiar mission ;
but within the boundaries of one sacrificial Love,
which unites them with its action, and fills them
with its life. Entrance into that order, union with
that life-giving life : this is the goal of our spiritual
growth. For where this surrender is absolute, the
mighty creative action evokes, develops and uses
to the last drop Its creature's energy ;
and the
result is such an amazing transcendency, such
creative and redeeming power, as we see in the
saints, whose spirit
'
clothes and expresses
'
the
Holy Spirit of God.
Thus a constant balance of surrender and initia-
tive, a God-impelled action and a God-desiring
contemplation, in ever-varying degrees and forms ;
this is the mark of a spiritual maturity. And
because this ceaseless tension so easily overstrains
us, and so easily opens the door to self-willed inter-
pretation of the Creative Will, some corporate
action and submission to the common judgement
is needed too. The separate member must be knit up
into that Mystical Body which is the organ of the
great Divine action in the world. It is within this
supernatural economy that all our little activities,
religious and other, go forward ;
it is this informing
aim which gives them worth ; and it is this solemn
consciousness of supporting and inciting Spirit,
at once Patria and Pater, but in its fullness ever
74 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
remaining inexpressible which is the mark of the
really religious man.
We see then that the working of the Spirit on
human personality, and the spiritual life which
develops as a result of this commerce between finite
and Infinite will, can never be identified with the
abnormal phenomena or cataclysmic conversions
too often described as
'
religious experience '. We
have indeed no reason to suppose that the super-
natural world is less steady, less dependable in
'its operations than the natural world. Anything
abrupt or sensational in our realization of Spirit is
rather to be attributed to our weakness and in-
,
stability, our sense-conditioned psychic life, than
to the deep and quiet working of the Power of God.
In the Book of Acts we have one of the greatest of
all historic records of the Spirit's double action :
felt sometimes as an invading, dictating, and trans-
figuring power, in sharp contrast with the ordinary
levels of experience, but more deeply recognized in
the continuous action and growth of individuals and
groups indwelt by Him. And so with us. There
may be italicized periods of either joy or abasement,
when the reality and claim of God are suddenly and
violently felt, and the Spirit seizes the field of
consciousness ; and throughout the whole spiritual
course, for some temperaments, moments of com-
munion when His presence is vividly experienced,
and His direct guidance is somehow recognized.
But what matters far more is the continuous normal
action, the steady sober growth which the Spirit
LIFE FINITE AND INFINITE 75
evokes, and cherishes if we are faithful : the whole
life of correspondence between man the creature
and the Absolute Will.
Thus the
'
coming of the Holy Spirit ', whether
understood as a historic or a personal experience,
does not mean any change in the Presence and Action
of God ; but does mean a change in the attitude and
capacity of men.
O Lux beatissima,
Reple cordis intima
Tuorum fidelium.
'Your opening and His entering', said Meister
Eckhart,
'
are one moment.' The New Testament
shows us men's experience of Christ as opening a
door for the further experience of the energizing
Spirit of God,
'
as He is everywhere and at all
times
'
;
and ordinary human beings moving out to
the very frontiers of human experience, to become
channels of that Spirit's action in space and time.
Since we are part of the society to which this hap-
pened and can happen still, our own responsibility
as agents of Spirit is both individual and corporate ;
and each reacts on the other. Church and soul are
both temples of the living Reality of God. Prayer
is the responsive moving-out of soul and of Church,
to the Spirit whose first movement has initiated
this marvellous intercourse between the finite and
Infinite life.
Hence the true aim of the creature's trans-
formation, is to weld that creature into the
76 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
universal creative process to make of each soul a
new centre of creative life. Thus from the first
all self-regarding. spirituality, all mean ideals of
safety and of comfort, are to be abandoned. The
goal is not moral goodness, effective service, spiritual
knowledge ;
but a whole life of adoring love, trans-
cending and including all these ends.
'
Salvation
'
means this total glad self-offering, this dedication of
the whole drive of our nature and its incorporation
into the eternal order ; not for our own sake, but
for the sake of the whole. And clearly
1
nothing
short of the immense attraction of that order, the
steady pull and pressure of the Love of God, could
persuade men to the sufferings and dedications
involved in such a destiny as this. For the flame
of Living Love is not a mild and tempered radiance.
It burns as we approach, and only gives us of its
ardour and its glory when we dare to plunge into
its very heart. Perhaps all earth's lesser demands
and vocations, the sacrificial call of truth and
beauty, the passion of the explorer or the moun-
taineer, overriding selfishness and ease, are parts
of the intricate process by which souls are trained
for the supreme self-giving of eternal life.
So we arrive at this point. .If the substantial
reality of the human soul abides in that quality or
ens we call spirit ;
and if here, in its ground or at
its spire-point, it finds God dwelling, and its own
real abiding place in Him two sides of one truth
then growth in the spiritual life and entrance into
reality, are the same thing. The disciplines of the
LIFE FINITE AND INFINITE 77
interior way become of immense importance for
the unfinished creature we call
'
man '.
Every
human being, said Peguy, represents a
'
hope of
God '. In less poetic terms, every human being is a ]
potential spiritual personality, who can by faithful
correspondence with God become an actual spiritual
personality. The Church is a society of souls at ,
every stage of growth, and adapted to a myriad
different ends, yet all surrendered to the one in-
dwelling Presence, and in all of whom this trans-
formation is going forward
'
as He wills '. Thus
they form together in a special sense, a tabernacle,
an organic embodiment for the Holy Eternal Spirit
in space and time ; one Body of many members
Corpus Christi.
V
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT
'
IT OVE ', says St. John of the Cross,
'
is an
I inclination of the soul : an outgoing force
-A or faculty, which makes it capable of
ascending towards God.' Its true nature is not
touched by any description which stresses its
emotional quality. It is the whole thrust and drive
of a conscious selfhood towards a desired object and
.
end. Love then, says St. John again,
'
is the
medium which unites the soul to God. Thus love
is the substance of a spiritual life. The higher the
soul mounts in the degrees of love, the more pro-
foundly she enters into God and identifies herself
with Him. So, each stage in the soul's growth in
love represents a fresh centre, each more interior
than the last, wherein she can dwell in God. It is
thus we can interpret the words
"
In my Father's
house are many mansions
"
in their relation to the
life of prayer '.
Hence, the soul which is fully given to the spiritual
life, whatever her stage of growth and liability to
fluctuation, has contracted as it were a
'
habitude
of love '. God has become for her the business of
businesses ;
the focus of interest. She possesses
78
THE, GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 79
at least in germ a permanent disposition or inclina-
tion, away from /
self-interest and towards self-
abandonment to Him ;
an inclination which is com-
parable to the moral man's inclination to right
conduct, or the artist's inclination to creativity.
No one of these types is fully harmonized or fully
alive, save when conformed to the demands of the
ruling habitus. Nor does -the Christian know that
active peace which is the cause of happiness, until
he is surrendered to that habitude of love, which
constitutes in its perfection the supernatural charity
of saints. For this habitude of love, the secret
spring of all real prayer, is the same thing as that
'
recollection
'
of which contemplatives speak as the
temper of their whole existence and implied basis
of their art.
'
If ', says Osuna,
'
we accustomed ourselves to
turn with intense love directly to the Divinity,
attending to nothing else, and regulating our likings
wisely, our love would penetrate all else until it
reached Him, turning neither to the right nor to
the left . . . this is true recollection, for the powers
of the soul collect together and help one another,
so that they may devote themselves unwearyingly
to the work,' Such recollected love places the soul
at the disposal of the
'
rapting Spirit ', directs its
whole will along one channel ;
subordinates its
being, wide-open and desirous, to the transforming
penetration of the supernatural life, the golden
shower. All the apparatus of devotion, in so far
as it concerns the nurture of the individual spirit,
80 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
tends to increase in it this habitude of humble self-
abandoned love
'
the affectionate and orderly
direction of the will to the supreme Good', says
Osuna again,
'
so that the whole heart and feelings
rush towards Him more swiftly than a stone descends
to the centre of the earth '. And growth in the
spiritual life is perhaps best measured by the degree
in which it
opens up human personality to this all-
penetrating divine action, places the created spirit
more and more at the disposal of the Immanent
Spirit ;
so that the self's separate activity is more
and more absorbed, transfused and possessed by
God. And this is surely what we must expect, if
the Christian doctrine of the Holy Spirit the in-
dwelling of the creature by the Godhead, under Its
attribute of purposive love be true.
The mind and soul of a mature man of prayer
has simplified its gaze, and deepened and broadened
its correspondences with Reality ; and the result
is seen in a peculiar confidence in the universe, a
profound and peaceful acceptance of experience in
its wholeness, and not only in purely religious
regard. Such a soul though it may and commonly
does remain inarticulate as regards its deepest
findings is aware of the mysterious movements and
pressures of the Spirit, and knows existence in a
way others do not. Because of its humble and dis-
ciplined communion with that immanent Spirit, it
has achieved a flexibility which can move to and
fro between the inward and the outward ; finding
in both in the most actual sense, and ever more
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 81
and more in proportion to its self-abandonment,
the presence of a living, acting God. It is this
loving discernment of Reality through and in
prayer,
this ever-expanding experience of God,
which is meant by the phrase
'
mystical theology
'
as employed by the great Christian masters of the
spiritual life. For the treasure of God is not what
we call
'
simple
'
; given, and possessed by the soul,
in a single act. There is a new gift, and a new
revelation of reality each time the soul reaches a
new centre of love. Yet each new centre seems to
that loving soul to possess an ultimate quality :
to be the fruition of all it is able to desire and
receive.
And the transforming Divine influence, quickening
and moulding the surrendered spirit, gradually pro-
duces within it certain characters which already
belong to the transcendent order, and shall enable
it for the living of the spiritual life. When theology
speaks, in its special language, of the
'
gifts
'
of the
Spirit, as the essential marks of the spiritual man,
the reference seems to be to the emergence of these
peculiar qualities in those in whom there is estab-
lished the habitude of other-worldly love. They
are qualities so alien to the normal temper of the
sense-conditioned creature, that they seem indeed
to be gifts infused from another level of reality;
involving correspondence with another kind of life.
Da tuis fidelibus,
In te confidentibus,
Sacrum septenarium
82 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
With the soul's growth in docility and in courage,
the enlargement of its interior life, the increase of
its sensitiveness, its faithful submission to the
cleansing power of events, it becomes ever more
capable of receiving from the supernatural order
these characters ; enduing with the quality and
colour of eternity the daily life of men. Every
time a fresh centre is reached in that gradual
journey to the depths of loving self-abasement,
which is the only safe pathway to the heights of
the Divine, a fresh emission of these transforming
characters into the soul takes place and must take
place :
enhancing its delighted adoration, its
devotedness, its strength, its supernatural lights.
For growth in the spiritual life consists solely in an
increase of God and decrease of self ; becoming at
its term a pure capacity for Him. Therefore the
inflow of the
'
gifts ', the qualities of the super-
natural life, keeps pace with the soul's increase in
love. For God in His substantial Being indwells
from the first her very substance, and the pressure
of His Thought and Love will penetrate and trans-
form her, in proportion to the active and loving
abandonment, the self-forgetful willingness to suffer,
which opens up her most secret recesses to His fire
and light : the humble and desirous courage with
which she says
'
Come !
'
We observe that these gifts those ingredients of
the spiritual creature, which shall make it like to
God are, as disclosed by their action on the psyche,
quiet and steady things. They work in it a deepen-
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 83
ing and enrichment which are marked, not by any
violent and emotional reactions, not by abnormal
experiences, but by an increase in awe and devoted-
ness ;
in knowledge, wisdom, insight, strength.
They do not come to destroy human nature, but to
fulfil it ; lifting it to fresh levels of reality and power.
And this is achieved not by the abrupt insertion
of the unnatural ;
but by the touch of a transform-
ing grace on the natural. So humbly is the hand
of God subdued to the material in which He works.
Fear of the Lord, Awe, that initial step in religious
realism which puts the imperfect spirit into right
relation with the Transcendent Perfect: this, the
first gift of the Spirit, is in truth the sublimation
and direction to God of man's creaturely sense. To
know our own place over against the Holy, the
utter contrast between the beauty of the Perfect and
our natural state, our dependence and our nothingness
before God, is the beginning of that Wisdom which
shall be perfected on the heights of the contemplative
life. For the first daunting revelation of Spirit, as
wholly other than anything the creature can conceive
or understand, kills at their root all the amiable
sentimentalisms and shallow rationalisms of this-
world religion; and prepares the ground in which
the supernatural virtue of humility, the very, stuff
of holiness, can grow.
'
. . . The Presence of God ',
says Huvelin, 'is proved by the confusion of the
creature ;
and by the desire that she has, tiny though
she be, to do something for Him who has done all.'
Thus the soul's most perfect prayer, over against
7
84. THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
that Absolute, is always Nescevi! nescevi! It is
not the sinner but the saint, whose eyes have been
opened on the world of spirit, who really knows
himself
'
carnal, sold under sin '. He has received
the primal gift of Fear ; and in the light of the
Eternal sees things as they are, and the nothingness
of all man's theological constructions and spiritual
experiences over against the splendour of God.
Here the deepest abasement and most delighted
adoration are one.
And this habitude of awe, this creaturely sense,
is balanced and completed by the beautiful temper
of Piety ;
the darling grace of the religious soul,
the expression of its perfect filial relationship, the
transformation of our tender emotion in God.
'
Pono pietas cultus Dei est, nee colitus ille nisi
amando ', says St. Augustine. If awe be the soul's
natural gesture over against the unmeasured majesty
of Spirit, the solemn stillness of Eternity, Piety
represents its childlike affection ;
its delighted
recognition of the fatherhood of the God whom it
adores. Ruysbroeck, in his account of the
'
gifts
'
which transform the Godward-tending spirit, says
that Piety gives to us a steadfast gentleness of heart.
It means the docile acceptance and loyal applica-
tion of the family point of view. So does the human
spirit achieve a small share in the immense charity
of God, poured out upon just and unjust, and an
affectionate subordination to His purposes ; thus
becoming more full of the Divine life-giving life,
and more like God, as it broadens and deepens in
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 85
self-spending love. So the habitude of awe and
the habitude of pietas expand the growing spirit in
two directions ; up to God Pure in humblest wor-
ship, and out in loving compassion towards His
self-revelation in men. If total abasement before
the Transcendent Perfect be ever one essential of
man's spiritual life, an actual adoption into the
order of supernatural charity is its completion.
And both must go on increasing ;
ever more fully
given within the growing soul. Piety is the spirit
in which the Christian gives the cup of cold water,
and so endues altruism with worship and turns it
towards God. These tempers of the soul complete
each other, like the vertical and horizontal arms of /
the Cross : and since in both spirit tends toward
Spirit, they are infinite in their reach.
Because the awe and filial action of the creature
must constantly come into play, and that within
the concrete and confusing circumstances of life, a
certain road-sense, a knowledge which is of the
Spirit and casts the light of eternity on the problems
of the temporal order, becomes essential to our
spiritual health. For we have somehow to discern
the true way of the Lord from among the tangled
lanes and the arterial highways which run in every
direction or none : must learn to distinguish the
enduring reality from the spiritual sham. This deep
experimental knowledge of the things of God at
the opposite pole from all notional spirituality, all
religious cleverness develops and becomes more "><"
precise as we seek to apply it. Thus the third
x
86 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
change worked by creative Spirit in the creature
given to prayer, is a gradual clarification of the
judgement, an opening of the eyes upon Eternity
so that man begins to see the things that really
belong to his blessedness, and separate the solid
food of the spirit from the mere confectionery of
faith.
Yet this enlightening alone this knowledge of
what to do and what to leave undone is not enough
for us. When the soul gets to grips with its voca-
tion, it finds that self-transcendence is a hard and
a heroic job. It is true that much work is done
on and in it ;
but always by way of a co-operation
with its own effort, which demands the exercise
up to the limit of its courage, endurance and love.
Always, too, in the open under conditions of varying
weather dark wintry days, dry seasons, gales and
fog. And the calm and selfless steadiness
'
deflected
neither by gladness nor by grief ', which must now
be produced in us ; accepting in tranquillity those
alternations of joy and grief, hope and fear, profit
and loss, good weather and bad, by which the soul is
tempered this belongs to God and is the answering
gift to a maturing love. The mere habit of fortitude,
the virtue of the hiker, slogging on after the first
freshness is spent even this essential disposition
will hardly be established without the stimulus and
, the support of grace : still less, that ghostly strength
which must carry the spirit safely over the most
lonely and terrible stretches of the way. For here
the small, bewildered and half-conscious soul a
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 87
little scrap of creation, inexplicable to itself
realizes its position among the dim and terrible
mysteries of a universe that goes marching on, hard,
cold, inexorable, unexplained. The valley of the
shadow of spiritual death closes in on it, the con-
scious experience of faith is withdrawn. Man the
spiritual creature is hemmed in by the natural ;
and cannot for the time escape its iron conditions.
In his tiny way, he shares the blackest experience
of the Cross. That pain and darkness, the whole
mystery of the world's helplessness and sin, stands
ever over against Holiness ; its dread pressure is
felt more and more, with the spirit's growth in
purity and love. Thus the strength of the Trans-
cendent must invade Its creature, if that creature
is to bear the stresses of its great task, and operate
as a tool of the Perfect in the warfare against evil
in the world.
So even from its inception, man's spiritual life
will be coloured by an awe-struck reverence and a
filial love, as turn by turn he gazes out in contempla-
tion of the Holy Reality, and returns to a humble
but actual co-operation with that Spirit who is
Father and Keeper of his soul. And with the growth
of this habitude of adoration and of tender loyalty,
there grows also a deepening insight, and an other-
worldly strength. The human mind is purged, the
human will is braced, by the tonic energies of love.
These are the
'
ordinary
'
gifts of Spirit to spirit.
Beyond them lie those three great characters which
form the triple crown of an established holiness.
88 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
"
That sure intuition of the saints, who have learned
the art of listening to the whisper of the Spirit in
Whom they live, and in Whom all things are one :
who are counselled by God in every circumstance,
never at a loss, because entirely docile to the inner
guidance. That ghostly understanding, undeceived
by appearance, which pierces to the reality of every
situation, shares ever more fully the Divine point
of view, God's wide and loving understanding of
all life. Last, the gift of Wisdom, that
'
touch or
stirring of God
'
says Ruysbroeck, which is the
very substance of contemplation ; tasting Him,
savouring as it were the very flavour of Reality,
and gradually spreading its mysterious influence
over all the activities of the soul.
'
God ', says
Ruysbroeck again,
'
works this spiritual touching
within us first, before all gifts ;
and yet it is known
and tasted by us last of all. For only when we
have sought God in love in all our practices, even
to the inward deeps of our ground, do we first feel
the inpouring of all the graces and gifts of God.'
These are the gifts, the habitudes, the characters,
with which Infinite Spirit enhances Its finite and
surrendered creature ; expanding, pacifying and
ennobling the narrow and unresting soul, and im-
parting to it a character which is deep and calm and
selfless, like a share in a vast life. And all these
are but the exercise or the effect of one love ; poured
out in the soul's very ground from Spirit to spirit,
that it may return to Spirit again. For beyond all
i we can see, feel, think, or bear there ever awaits us
THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT 89
God, the Fact of all facts, perfect and complete.
And the human soul, subject to succession, not
perfect,
not complete, finds its true life and full
power only in an ever-growing surrender to that
rich and living Reality.
VI
THE TWOFOLD LIFE
ONCE
man has entered on this spiritual life,
its growth if
healthy will be not merely
upwards but also outwards ; so that ever
wider areas of interest and activity are included
in its span and subdued to the supernatural demand.
The gift of Wisdom, savouring God Transcendent,
and aware of His touchings of the spirit, penetrates
and enhances that gift of Understanding, which
reads experience in the light of God Immanent,
and the gift of Counsel, which subjects all personal
choice to the secret counsellings of that Will in
Whom all things are one. Thus all that is felt,
done, loved and sacrificed is more and more perceived
to be part of the apparatus through which Spirit
Increate works on the spirit that is being created ;
that by means of this created spirit's transformation,
It may work on the whole fabric of life. Man,
called to incarnate something of the Holy, must do
it by a dedication of body as well as of soul ; purging
and transforming the natural, and making it the
vehicle of a supernatural life. This is the truth
upon which the whole Christian religion is based :
and the Pattern of that life as manifest among us
90
THE TWOFOLD LIFE 91
is marked above all by the rich variousness of its
self-spending ardour, a ceaseless longing to teach,
to heal, to save. Not our
'
superior
'
faculties alone,
our will and instinct for Eternity, but our
'
lower
'
nature, our deeply-rooted correspondences with the
created order, must be unselfed and harmonized to
the purposes of the Spirit, and the unity of our
being restored. For that being is called to be a
bridge between temporal and eternal Reality.
'
I
will ask of God ', said Elizabeth Leseur,
'
such an
enlargement of soul, that I may love Him with
ardour, serve Him with joy, and transmit His radi-
ance to the world.'
This sense of total surrender to Spirit for Its
purposes and not our own, moving within the time-
series as the agent of Unchanging Love, is the ruling
characteristic of great saints, and the essence of
Eternal Life.
'
For as many as are led by the
Spirit of God, they are the sons of God/ The first
term of the spiritual life must always be God's
hidden but felt Presence and action, His absolute
priority ; not the little soul He moves and incites
to seek Him, still less that soul's interests, feelings,
or experiences. And this hidden Presence, itself
unchanging, discloses Itself in many ways and on
many levels ; from that which we call wholly
natural, to that which, lying beyond our compre-
hension, we refer to the
'
supernatural
'
world. So
too the response that is asked from Its child and
creature may involve the extreme of world-renounce-
ment, or may seem to pin down the soul to the
92 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
most homely duties of the natural level, and possess
none of the characters we attribute to the contem-
plative life. Yet even so, lived towards God,
based upon that ground where Spirit guides and
sustains us, each response, whatever its appearance,
will have the quality of prayer.
Thus we see that this life, in its perfect norm,
can neither be a life of pure contemplation, nor a
life of pure action. It must in its own small way
enter that balanced rhythm of rapt communion and
self-spending love which ruled the earthly life of
Christ ; a life in which the soul expands to embrace
and love and serve the greatest possible number of
persons, contacts and events, and calls in its faculties
to find again their meaning and their poise in God.
And it is this double movement at its fullest, with
all that it involves of tension and sacrifice, which
constitutes the supernatural charity of saints. We,
standing at the verge of their mysterious country,
can only guess at the experiences which are con-
tained in
'
the breadth, and length, and depth, and
height
'
of this humbling yet exalting life in God.
Indeed, when we consider the curve of St. Paul's
life, the shattering events of his conversion, his total
surrender and its results, we can hardly dare to
suppose that our best thoughts penetrate far into
the meaning of these words. Yet, in their own
small way, our souls too are required to expand
in more directions than one. Because our lives
unfold in a world impregnated with God Immanent,
the first movement of quickened spirit will be a
THE TWOFOLD LIFE 93
willing and supple self-giving to His purposes
therein declared. On the other hand, because in
the last resort He alone can suffice and complete
us, we need a certain solitude and withdrawal from
succession, in which to experience those interior
'
stirrings and touchings
'
of the Spirit which are
the secret causes of the spiritual life. These move-
ments must balance and enrich each other. Neither
must be seized and enjoyed for its own sake alone.
For we are being remade in order that we may be
useful : not in order that we may abandon our
post within that time-series where God acts, and
wills to act, through human souls.
His Spirit comes to us, as Caussade said, in
'
the
sacrament of the present moment '.
Joy and pain,
drudgery and delight, humiliation and consolation,
tension and peace each of these contrasting experi-
ences reaches us fully charged with God ;
and does,
or should incite us to an ever more complete self-
giving to God. But each experience, as such, is
neutral when seen only in natural regard. It is
then merely part of that endless chain of cause and
effect of which our temporal lives are made. It
can only touch our deepest selves, help or hinder
the growth of the spirit, in so far as we do or do
not direct our wills through it in love and reverence
to Him. There is only one life the
'
spiritual
'
life
consists in laying hold on it in a particular way ;
so that action becomes charged with contemplation,
and the Infinite is served in and through all finite
things. The twofold experience of Spirit, as a deeply
94 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
felt inward Presence and as the Ocean of reality
and life, must be actualized in a twofold response
of the soul : a response which is at once
'
active
'
and
'
contemplative ', outgoing and indrawing, an
adoring gaze on the Splendour over against us,
and a humble loving movement towards the sur-
rendered union of will and Will.
'
Whenever the
Lord is about to bestow grace on us ', says Osuna,
'
He says (at least equivalently) what was said to
Rebecca :
"
Let us call the maid, and ask her will ".'
Thus total abasement before the transcendent
Perfect is one side of the spiritual life. Adoption
into the supernatural series divine sonship, with
its obligation of faithful service within the Divine
order is the other side. The Seraphim in Isaiah's
vision, who veiled their faces before the unmeasured
Glory, were yet part of the economy through which
that Glory was poured out on the world : and the
experience of reality which begins with the prophet's
a.we-struck vision and utter abasement before the
Holy, ends on the words
'
Send me !
'
This double action of the soul, standing away
from the Perfect in contemplation and seeking
union with It in love, and this double consciousness
of the Holy as both our Home and our Father, are
the characters of a fully developed Christian spiritu-
ality. But these characters are not found in their
classic completeness in any one individual. We only
discern their balanced splendour in the corporate
life of surrendered spirits ;
the Communion of
Saints. Not the individual mystic in his solitude,
THE TWOFOLD LIFE 95
but the whole of that Mystical Body, in its ceaseless
self-offering to God, is the unit of humanity in
which we can find reflected the pattern of the
spiritual life. And as. regards the individual, the
very essence of that life is contained in a docile
acceptance of his own peculiar limitations and
capacities, a loyal response to vocation a response
which, though it
may sometimes be passive in
appearance, is ever charged with the activity of
God.
'
I see no difference ', said Berulle, as he
bade farewell to his brethren before setting forth
upon an onerous mission,
'
between those who go
and those who stay at home. In one sense all are
sent ;
for there is a double mission, one interior
and the other exterior. And it is on the interior
mission of grace, of mercy, and of charity, that I
declare all to be sent.'
So the life of spirit means such personal sub-
ordination to God's total action, as weaves into one
the inward and outward movements of the soul ;
and endues all work with contemplation, and makes
of contemplation the most mortified and self-
abandoned of all work. In this world, such a life
must always involve a certain tension between the
two movements, a nailing to the Cross of the restless
will, and constant failures in adjustment and accept-
ance which keep the individual painfully aware of
incompleteness, and ever open to the wholesome
and purifying experience of penitence. Yet this
tension, this acceptance of suffering and limitation
is the price of all real life :
every new entrance
96 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
into the creative order, every union with Reality,
however feeble and incomplete. No servant of
truth or beauty, in art, exploration, science or
thought, can escape the ascetic law. If our response
to circumstance consists mainly in an unchecked
yielding to the attractions and repulsions of sensi-
tive nature, given over like a restless sea to
'
the
winds of pain and pleasure, hope and fear ', then
we wholly miss the interior significance of that web
of events in which we are placed, and which can at
every point convey God.
So the deepening and enriching of man's Godward
life by a regular and deliberate feeding of the
theocentric temper, and the cleansing of that vision
which beholds Him, are the indivisible implicits of
spiritual growth. For the loving inclination of the
purified will towards God alone makes possible the
inflow of His feeding strengthening Spirit ; and that
supersensual Food increases in its turn the energy,
the purity, the self-abandoned meekness of the
growing spirit's tendency to Him.
PURIFICATION
I
THE ESSENCE OF PURGATION
THERE
is a type of sacred picture, very
popular in the period of the Counter-
Reformation, which shows a saint ascend-
ing to the foot of the Cross ;
and the Crucified
stooping to His servant and by one arm drawing
him to union with Himself. It is a symbolic repre-
sentation of the Anima Christi ;
that double move-
ment of desire and grace, which is the formula of
the spiritual life. The steps on which the saint
ascends to that share in the divine self-giving which
is the fulfilment of joy, are variously regarded.
St. Francis stands secure on the great unriven
rock of perfect charity, and finds that he can reach
his Master there. St. Ignatius climbs more gradu-
ally, by the successive steps of obedience, patience,
humility and love. But it is the same arduous
ascent and the same attainment, whatever the
path which is taken by the soul. The Christian
mystic conceives this pictorially, as a share in the
Cross : the entry of the human spirit into the
redemptive order of the Holy, achieved partly by
97
98 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
its own deliberate upward struggle and partly by
the generous stooping down of the Divine. And
these two movements of created and Creative love
are the causes of that double purification at once
active and passive which is the condition of the
soul's entry into, and persistence in, the spiritual
life.
'
Set love in order, thou that lovest Me.'
And this setting in order of our undisciplined desires,
this hard climb-up from the instinctive life of
'
nature
'
to the transformed life of
'
grace ', could
never be undertaken without a certain humble
self-revelation of the Perfect, attracting to Itself
our adoring love and awakening our sense of imper-
fection and our zest. All the apparatus of religion
is meant to make us accessible to that revelation,
and stimulate our response : in other words, to
awaken and feed our charity.
'
A man ', says Ruysbroeck,
'
should always, in
all his works, stretch towards God with love ;
Whom, above all things, he aims at and loves.'
But this requires the drastic elimination of all those
desires and repulsions which side-track the will, and
conflict with the total inclination of our personality
towards God ;
and the deliberate direction of the
great drive of our nature its love and will, its
passions and energies to that supreme attraction
and demand. Only thus can we achieve that
entire fulfilment of the First Commandment which
is the substance of a life of prayer.
'
A soul
enslaved by anything less than God ', says St. John
of the Cross,
'
becomes by this fact incapable of
THE ESSENCE OF PURGATION 99
union with Him.' Though the life of the senses
may seem the most obvious sphere of disorder, it
is at a deeper level that the real purgation of self-
love must take place. The soul, our total invisible
being with a range of experience and possibility
stretching from a total response to the world of the
senses to a total concentration on intellectual or
spiritual good is required to withdraw from its
unreal correspondences, turn its emotional drive
in a new direction, and subordinate its sacred .
powers of knowing and of loving to the overruling
claim and invitation of Reality. All pouring out
of will and desire towards lesser objects, unless
Spirit remains the ultimate aim, breaks up the
unity of the soul's life and wastes its powers. This
stern truth, indeed, rules all levels of our existence ;
and requires of us the normal restraints of common
sense, as well as the absolute self-stripping of
sanctity.
Too often, the passive and active aspects of the
one living and mysterious process of purification
the deep action of Spirit on spirit, at once attracting,
penetrating and abasing us, and our deliberate
costly effort of self-conquest and response- are
treated as if they were distinct. But in reality
they cannot be divided. Within the soul's actual
life, it is impossible to separate with a sure hand
the work of God from that of the surrendered will ;
whether in mortification or in prayer. It is true
that the self's own action at first appears most
vigorous and obvious, and then may seem to fade
8
loo THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
away. But this appearance is deceptive. From
the very beginning, the active and passive adjust-
ments of the spirit to the ever-deepening demands
of the Holy go on simultaneously. The immanent
Power works ceaselessly on the half-made creature ;
yet always by way of an incitement, a secret
revision of standards, a stirring of love, which by
turns attracts and shames us and calls forth our
full power of response.
We are apt to think of
'
mortification
'
as a
codified moral discipline, imposed from without on
the soul ; whereas it really arises from the very
character of the spiritual life, and is above all an
evidence of growth. It is the name of those
inevitable changes which the psyche must undergo,
in the transfer of interest from self to God. Active
purification represents the simple effort of our
embryonic faith, hope and charity three aspects
and expressions of one state, or tendency to God,
as realized by understanding will and heart to
capture and rule the house of the soul, and vanquish
all hostile powers. Passive purification is best
understood as a part of the Spirit's general creative
action on us ; given through circumstances and
interior movements, and felt specially in the
pressure of His demands on our innate self-will and
self-love.
'
It is one and the same flame of love ',
says St. John of the Cross,
'
which will one day
unite itself to the soul to glorify it, and which now
invades it to purify it.' And whilst our own ascetic
action, and a conviction of its reality and impor-
THE ESSENCE OF PURGATION 101
tance, is essential to our spiritual health, it is through
this penetrating and rectifying action of Spirit,
moving all things to their appointed end, and in
all its operations gratefully received by us, that the
real transformation of the soul is worked.
Lava quod est sordidum,
Riga quod est aridum,
Sana quod est saucium.
Flecte quod est rigidum,
Fove quod est frigidum,
Rege quod est devium.
We must think of the pressure and penetration
of God, on and through His many-levelled living
Universe, as steady and continuous. This discovery
of the ceaseless Divine action, perhaps the most
crucial experience of life, is the clue to the
mysterious facts of purification and prayer. Once
recognized and trusted, it
emancipates us from
all
slavery to particular methods and guides. We
now realize ourselves to be directly moved and led
by Spirit ; always equally sanctifying, whether its
cleansing action reach us by outward events, duty,
suffering, mental life, or prayer. We, at each point,
are more or less susceptible to that purifying action,
according to the way in which we use our limited
freedom ; our capacity for docility, effort, suffering
and love. \ This susceptibility will normally be
manifested in our response to the stimulus of
events ;
and more profoundly, in the movements
of the soul in prayer. The bracing, bending,
102 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
softening and reordering which the alertly loving
spirit then desires and asks, are commonly given
to it through the homely frictions and demands of
daily life ;
sweetened and sanctified, because
through and in them are discerned the personal
touch and Presence of the Spirit, Who alone knows
the path of every creature and is for that creature
at once Way, Truth and Life.
So it is, that there is no parity whatever between
the intensity of those external, or even internal
trials which discipline us, and their purifying
result. The dripping tap or barking dog which
teaches patience is as much an instrument of God
as the shattering blow which tears two souls apart.
A soul in the sphere of purification may receive
the maximum of suffering and, if abandoned to
God, the maximum of cleansing through an appar-
ently inadequate event ;
if the response which that
event demands be of such a nature as to mortify
the root of self-regard. Even the outward incidents
of the Passion were not proportioned to the dread
suffering and victory of which they were the proxi-
mate cause. One and the same event may be
charged for this soul with the purifying call to an
utter self-abandonment ; and merely incite that
soul to a sterile resentment. The cleansing and
transforming power of suffering abides not in the
degree of pain experienced, but in the degree of
acceptance achieved ;
the Fiat voluntas tua with
which the soul meets the action of God-Spirit in
and through events.
THE ESSENCE OF PURGATION 103
Thus we see that the common notion of the
'
purgative way
'
as merely the equivalent of moral
self-conquest, is not adequate to the deep facts of
the spiritual life. Though it is true that the
opening phase^f
that life will commonly involve
direct conflictwith obvious faults, the real purifi-
cation of the soul is not an unpleasant experience
of limited duration a drastic supernatural
'
cure
'
to which we must submit ourselves in order to
be
'
disinfected of egoism ', and released from the
tyranny of the instinctive life. Those who prefer
the neatness of the museum label to the discon-
certing actuality of the living soul, always tend to
describe as successive experiences which are really
simultaneous ;
and sometimes they become the
dupes of their own tidiness. They like to arrange
the inner life in a series of stages, each to be com-
pleted and left behind. But this convenient
diagram has only a symbolic relation to the realxfc'
facts. That strange necessity of love which we
know and experience within the time-series as
'
purification ', is
really an effect of the eternal
action of the Divine Charity ; reaching and touch-
ing our souls through events. That touch and
action must mean suffering, till our disharmony ,
with God is done away ;
but takes an ever more
subtle and interior form as our life develops, and
its centre of interest passes from the sensible to
the intellectual, and at last to the spiritual
sphere. Thus the purifying demand seems to us
to proceed step by step with the growth of that
104 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
life ;
till the whole of the intellectual and spiritual
being, no less than the instinctive nature, is
simplified, cleansed of self-interest, and transformed
in God.
Moreover, as the growing spirit comes to realize
this process as an essential and permanent strand
in its true life, so its own acts of humble and
loving correspondence, its secret renunciations and
faithful acceptance, will grow in purity and depth.
Then the very discipline of purification becomes a
means of communion, and deepens into prayer ;
more and more laying open the soul to the flood
of the Spirit's unmeasured life. For the purifying
worth of prayer consists in the increasing contrast
which it sets up between the holy God and the
creature ; subordinating that creature's fugitive
activities and desires to the standard set by this
solemn apprehension of Reality. Hence in prac-
tice, prayer or attention to God, and purifica-
tion or self-adjustment to and with Him, must
proceed together. Prayer tends directly to God ;
mortification removes the de-ordination of desire,
and concentrates our will and love on Him
alone. These are the two completing aspects
of one undivided life ; and if we think of them
separately, it is merely for the sake of con-
venience.
This twofold progress, to and in God, is what St.
John of the Cross means by the
'
ascent of Mount
Carmel '. And Mount Carmel is like one of those
mountains which have many summits ; so that each
THE ESSENCE OF PURGATION 105
time we think we have reached our limit, we see a
new height beyond us, more beautiful and more
absolute in its demand ;
and again the glimmering
Presence, the same yet ever-changing, beckons us
on. Two by-paths accompany and constantly
entice the mountaineer. One offers the natural
life in all its fullness and charm ;
the other offers
spiritual consolations and experiences. Both are
to be avoided by the instructed climber : for at
best they lead to the pleasant lower pastures of
faith. The ascent to which he has been called is
to the unseen summits of the Spirit ; and that
means the narrow way, the rock, the rope, the
guide, and such a denudation of all preference and
comfort, all softness, unreality and excess, as leaves
him at last capable of giving all that Spirit asks,
and receiving all that Spirit gives.
First the field of normal consciousness and con-
duct, where the
'
I
'
lives in contact with the world
of sense, and under the constant stimulus of desire,
must be submitted to the purifying power ;
re-
ordered in accordance with the standards of reality.
Next the intellectual region, where the mind is
always at work analysing and interpreting, must
subordinate the separate findings of reason to the
overwhelming certitudes of faith ;
and the psychic
world of memory and imagination in which so
much of our waking life is passed, must disclose
its fugitive and approximate character over against
God. Last, the will, the principle of action, and
the very expression of our personal love and life,
io6 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
is to be cleansed of self-interest by the action of
Divine Love ;
that the whole unified being
'
re-
formed
'
in faith, hope and charity, may tend to
its one objective, the incomprehensible Being of
God.
II
THE CLEANSING OF THE SENSES
THE
notion that the world in which we find
ourselves is really very nice, and that those
impressions of the dread reality and pene-
trative power of sin which haunt awakened spirits,
are merely due to ignorance, atavism or ill-adjust-
ment, is not truly adequate to the facts of our
situation. It has never satisfied mature souls.
The saints, whose whole lives consist in a loyal and
delighted response to God Present, are seldom easy-
going optimists. Their humble steady conscious-
ness of the reality of Spirit seems to bring a com-
pensating sense of the real dangers among which we
live ; and of great spiritual energies which are hostile
to the attainment of God. Christ never represented
salvation as something to be attained easily. Few,
He thought, find the steep and narrow path which
leads away from the ever-burning rubbish dump,
and towards the austere victory of the Cross.
Many are called, few chosen. Those who seem first,
are often last. This is a strand in His teaching which
we prefer to minimize or forget ;
but it stares at us
from the Gospels, and is endorsed by the experience
of the soul. The ancient prayer of the Church for
107
io8 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
the souls of the dead, sums up her consciousness of
those possibilities other than beatitude which alw.ays
wait for our unstable human personality, and may
snatch their victory even at the very end : as if,
emerging from bodily life, yet charged with all the
dispositions it had fostered, an awful choice of direc-
tion did really lie before each spirit. Libem eas from
the mouth of the lion, from all the untamed violence
latent in life, the devouring element ;
that they may
not sink with the decay of nature into the deep lake
of darkness, never to emerge again. Ne absorbeat
eas tartarus, ne cadant in obscurum.
And this choice, this risk, vividly felt in that
decisive moment, recurs at every stage of the interior
life ; which is constantly solicited from those two
directions which we roughly distinguish as the
spheres of sense and of spirit, of nature and of grace.
For the soul, as St. Teresa saw, is one and indi-
visible. It is the whole invisible reality of our being ;
the immaterial self which informs and uses the total
mechanism of body and mind, and by means of
that mechanism responds to the various attractions
and demands of our mixed environment. And the
question for man is, where shall the centre of its
energies be placed ? In that vigorous, instinctive
life we share with the animals ;
which is rooted in
the time-series, and totally concerned with the satis-
faction of desire and the maintaining of our foothold
in the physical world ? Or in that
'
fine point of the
spirit
'
which is turned towards God and craves for
God ? The problem is not to be solved by the mere
THE CLEANSING OF THE SENSES 109
rejection
or repression of
'
sensitive nature
'
;
for ,
there is no watertight bulkhead between the sensitive
and spiritual levels of the soul. It is an aspect of our
amphibious situation, that one part of our being can
never be purified apart from the other. They flow
into and affect one another. There is no desire
which belongs so entirely to the senses that it leaves
the spirit untouched ;
whilst in the best and purest
of our supposed
'
spiritual
'
experiences, there is
always some admixture of sense. Even our final
beatitude is held by Christian theology to depend
somehow on the continued possession of
'
body
'
as
well as
'
soul '.
So our biological inheritance must be the first
matter of purification, because it cannot be left
behind without tearing our very selves in two.
The great energies of
'
nature
'
must be transformed
and brought into line, if human personality is fully
to serve the purposes of
'
grace '. Hence the con-
flict which is an inevitable part of all spiritual growth.
For the deepest soul, the most interior self, since it
is
spirit, must always when awakened say to the
indwelling and enveloping Presence which is creating
it
'
Strip me, scourge me, cleanse me, take me and
subdue me to Thy purpose. Lo ! I come to do
Thy will.
1
Indeed, there is nothing else for it to
do. It achieves its fullest life by an utter self loss :
at these deep levels, where Spirit and spirit meet,
sacrifice and ecstasy are one. When we remem-
ber our real situation, our entire and child-like
dependence on the Spirit of God penetrating and
no THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
supporting us, and the centrality of this relation for
our whole existence :
then, the enslavement of will
and emotion to anything that deflects or impairs the
purity of this unceasing correspondence with God,
is seen to cripple our true lives, and twist our souls
out of shape. And the unmortified, unchecked
response of will and feeling to the attraction of any
objective which is less than God does this.
But sensitive nature, in and through which the
spirit must support itself in the time-series, and there
receive and manifest the Divine Action, rebels against
this austere demand for the ordering of its love.
It desires its own satisfactions, clings to its own
universe, plays for its own hand. Even when the
crude egoistic impulses to self-assertion and greed
have been subdued upon the physical level those
acquisitive, lustful, combative tempers which the
race carries forward as untransformed energy from its
sub-human past they merely transfer their energies
to the spiritual sphere. A selfish, greedy and acquisi-
tive attitude towards the attractions of spirit replaces
a selfish, greedy and acquisitive attitude towards the
attractions of sense. Spiritual pride, spiritual envy,
and spiritual gluttony are not less hostile to God than
their carnal counterparts ;
for they mean that the
soul's true life is still turned inwards on itself. The
stain of self-interest lies on its prayer and dries up
its adoration, the poison of spiritual egoism saps its
health. And only the purging action of Spirit,
humbly asked and bravely endured, can set this
situation right.
THE CLEANSING OF THE SENSES HI
Lava quod est sordidum,
Riga quod est aridum,
Sana quod est saucium.
Thus one and the same law of tranquil self-oblivion
must be applied to the whole house of the soul ;
not
only to the lower story, but to the upper as well
that region of spiritual desire, where our secret self-
love so often finds a lair. For only in the tranquillity
which is achieved by the death of all personal demand
can the delicate impulsions of the Spirit be discerned.
And this we can only win by turning the whole of
our instinctive life in a new direction, away from
self-fulfilment however noble, and towards entire
self-mergence in God ; setting its vigorous love in
order, giving it without reserve to the purposes of the
Will. Here psychology and religion go hand in
hand. Each recommends the drastic re-ordering
and sublimation of desire, its redemption from self-
interest, as the pathway to interior peace : and this
redeeming of desire contains in itself that whole
purification of .the sensitive life, which St. John of
the Cross calls the first of the three nights through
which the Godward tending soul is called to pass.
First on the natural level and then on the spiritual
level,
'
appetite
'
in the sense of undisciplined and
egoistic choice must be renounced. For all the
scattered cravings, illusory ambitions and emotional
inclinations of the
'
I
'
represent so much energy
subtracted, so much interest deflected, from the
great drive of the
'
Me '
towards God.
Thus it sometimes seems as though the whole life
H2 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
of faith were contained in the continual battle with
our instinctive desire for personal satisfactions,
possessions or success, material, emotional, and
spiritual : that a ceaseless agere contra must be the
law of spiritual growth. But things are not really
quite so grim as this. From another angle, the life
of the spirit is seen to consist on one hand in its
active loving movement often checked and baffled
but faithfully renewed towards an ever-closer
correspondence with achieved Perfection : on the
other, in the ceaseless purifying action of the Divine
Life present in circumstance upon our unstable and
unfinished being, and the soul's humble, grateful
and passive acceptance of this. As the souls in the
Purgatorio ran eagerly to the cleansing Mountain, and
climbed from terrace to terrace, not urged by God's
justice but drawn by His love ; so vigorous effort
is one side of the purifying process, but only one side
it is a preparation of the matter of the sacrament.
The essential change is worked, we know not how,
by the cleansing action of the Spirit working in the
hidden deeps, bending the rigid will to -suppleness
and melting the ice about the frozen heart. / For the
goal to which our spirits move is that life-giving
state of active union in which, knowing that we
abide in God, we are really at home ; feeding on
Him, are satisfied ; and lost in Him, fulfil our life.
There is a marvellous moment at the end of
the Purgatorio, in which a tremor passes through
the Holy Mountain ;
and all the souls on all the
terraces, forgetting their own pains, rise to their feet
THE CLEANSING OF THE SENSES 113
in joy and sing the Gloria. And when Dante asks
what has happened, he is told that one soul, casting
off the last fetters of selfish desire, has risen and gone
forward in freedom to God. In that one act, which
turns the whole of the self's will towards the Uni-
versal Will, purification is complete. But so tough
are the attachments of the senses, so inveterate is
the creature's frenzied clutch on fugitive possessions
and delights, that many minor operations are neces-
sary before all the adhesions are cleared away.
Thus it follows that everything must go from the
soul in whom the thirst for God has been awakened
which competes with the one overruling attraction
of Spirit. All clutch and grab, ill-will and turbu-
lence ; all those primitive exhausting passions and
absorbing childish ambitions, all the vestigial relics
of the cave and jungle, which civilized society
disguises but does not suppress. But the purity
which is to be achieved is not the sterile safety of
something that is kept in the refrigerator. Within
Spirit's sphere of influence, and capable of its trans-
forming power, there is offered to the soul an infinity
of lesser generous loves. The over-ruling Love of
God in its quickening and penetrating beauty will
give all these a certain purifying and sacrificial
character ; purging them of violence and self-regard,
and replacing the concentrated fevers of desire by
the generous glow of a wide-spreading charity.
'
When we are masters of ourselves ', says Gerlac
Petersen,
'
our footsteps will not be straitened ;
but freely and liberally shall we walk with our Lord,
ii4 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
looking at all things with Him.' This is the formula
of that sanctity at once so divine and so human
which makes of human personality, in all its richness
and emotional beauty, a channel of the Love of God.
And it is surely just because the senses are so
mysterious and so holy, that these senses must be
cleansed, re-ordered and unselfed. We cannot, in
fact, really split ourselves up into
'
sensual
'
and
'
spiritual
'
. man ;
but in all our varied power of
love and suffering, must accept the contributions
and the limitations of sense. The Christian cannot
avoid the fact that he finds himself within a sacra-
mental order ;
and cannot correspond with that
sacramental order on the level of spirit alone. Sense
must intervene in our responses to reality ;
and
cannot, unless docile to the over-ruling Spirit and
purged of the infection of desire. This means a
steady and courageous shifting of the soul's centre
of action from the circumference inwards to its true
centre, the deep where it abides in God ;
and thence
a rich and selfless expansion, which is the reward of
that preliminary stripping and retreat. Thus it is
not a harsh dualism but a profound incarnationalism
which requires us to set in order our physical and
emotional life, and subordinate all vagrant longings
to the single passion for God.
f
A heart filled with
desires ', says St. John of the Cross,
'
knows nothing
of liberty.'
Ill
THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT
ST.
JOHN OF THE CROSS describes three
'
nights ', three kinds and degrees of obscurity,
which the growing spirit must experience
during its transition from that natural life within
which we all emerge, and to which we are adjusted,
to the other life which is
'
transformed in God '. He
says that these nights are like the strong soap and
soda which cleanse us from all the stains of unreality,
and restore us to the purity in which we can receive
the divine light. This symbolism at first repels us
by its apparent harshness ;
its purely negative
character. But when we examine it, we see that it
is a desperate attempt to describe the sequence of
psychological states through which our limited
consciousness does and must move, from its normal
whole-hearted acceptance of that unquestioned world
of
'
common sense
'
which is shown to us by the
senses, to correspondence with that other level of
reality, dimly yet most truly known in our ascents
to the soul's apex a world which is ever
'
dark to
the intellect, though radiant to the heart '.
For the three
'
nights
'
of St. John are really the
successive phases of one undivided process ;
the dis-
9 115
n6 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
concerting and purifying discovery of the mystery,
the cloud of unknowing, which wraps us round.
They are like the increasing dark through which
the earth turns so gravely and quietly from one
day to the next. The soul moves in them from dusk
to full night ;
and thence to that luminous darkness
which precedes the dawn, and has in it a tenderness
and wonder, a quality of revelation, unknown to the
'
good visibility
'
of the average day. When prayer
first brings us into this twilight of the spirit, the
sharply denned landscape within which we have been
accustomed to arrange our religious experiences, and
all the certitudes and satisfactions, religious and
other, mediated by the senses, lose their familiar
colour, importance and shape. They become less
solid and certain ;
more mysterious. As the bright
field and the safe homely creatures, which in day-
light we took easily for granted, assume an alien and
primeval majesty, reveal something of their inward
being, at the first approach of night ;
so it is when
the dusk of the spirit falls on the familiar religious
scene. The crisp
'
facts
'
of an organized faith suffer
a strange transformation. They loom up at us, dim,
huge, half-realized, and yet more deeply living than
before ;
like forest trees before the rising of the
moon. And now we begin to be aware of their
infinite solemnity and significance, their treasures of
hidden truth and beauty ;
arid of our ignorance in
respect of their real meaning, our shallowness of
comprehension over against their depth. The world
j
of religion is no longer a concrete fact proposed for I
THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT 117
our acceptance and adoration. It is an unfathom-
able universe which engulfs us, and which lives \
its own majestic uncomprehended life : and we I
discover that our careful maps and cherished/
definitions bear little relation to its unmeasured/
reality. j
'
Lord my God/ cries Nicholas of Cusa,
'
JL
behold thee in the entrance of Paradise and I know
not what I see, for I see naught visible. This alone
I know, that I know not what I see and never can
know. . . .
Thou, God, who art Infinity, canst /
only be approached by him whose intellect is in I
ignorance ;
to wit, by him who knows himself to
be ignorant of Thee.'
How purifying, how deeply humbling is this
discipline of ignorance ;
this sense of the great life
that enfolds us, the dim country surrounding and
underlying the small bright patch to which alone
our analytic minds are adequate.
'
For of all other
creatures and their works ', says The Cloud of
Unknowing,
'
may a man through grace have fulness
of knowing, and well can he think of them. But of
God Himself can no man think. And therefore I
would leave all that thing that I can think, and
choose to my love that thing that I cannot
think.'
The soul that has received this intimation of the
true relation between its small perceptions and the
universe of Spirit, has experienced once for all the
essence of that purgation of the understanding which
prepares the way of faith. For what matters here
n8 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
is that the mind shall become so quietly limpid, so
clear of its own deceptive notions and discrimina-
tions, that it receives simply and humbly the subtle
touch of God ;
'
understanding because it does not
seek to understand ', as we understand the mystery
of the night. Then we realize that prayer only
achieves depth and substance when it passes beyond
and above our intelligence ; and we know not what
we do, because our action is engulfed in the mighty
act of Spirit, and we are for the time being lost in
the night of God.
Entering this
'
night of faith
'
which is to purge
the mind of all its intellectual pride and self-assur-
ance, the soul at first feels utterly lost. Sensitive
nature is deprived of the accustomed support which
it has received from visible religion ;
and reason
receives its first daunting revelation of that overplus
of Reality with which it can never deal. The
miracle-play is over, the foot-lights have gone out,
and we must go home under the stars. Their radi-
ance seems very dim after the theatre lights. But
only with our docile acceptance of this enfolding
darkness can we escape from the imaginary world
of sensitive nature and learn to centre our being on
God alone. This strips the understanding, the
memory and the will of all fantasy, all easy self-
assurance, and forces them to face the dark reality
of Spirit and the narrow limits of our possible
experience.
'
The soul does not unite itself to God
in this world by understanding, by enjoying, by
imagining, nor by any faculty of sensitive nature ',
THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT 119
says St. John of the Cross ;
but by the generous act
of trust which turns from all these props to a bare
adherence in faith
'
free, naked, pure and simple
without mode or manner '.
'
God is greater than our heart.' But all that this
means for the soul which tends to Him cannot be
learnt without a painful cleansing of the intellectual
life. For it requires us to refuse all trust in the
final worth of our separate and distinct experiences
in the workings of philosophic reason on one hand,
or of religious imagination on the other while
accepting the intimations of God conveyed by these
imperfect instruments. This is the
'
divine ignor-
ance
'
which cleanses the interior mirror and stills
the restless mind, in order that it may receive in
humble tranquillity the impress of Spirit. And
purification here means the steady refusal to pour
ourselves out towards the merely attractive and
consoling, or the dangerously clear ;
the discarding
of easy diagrams and clever explanations of the
Invisible, the feeding of our humble sense of mystery.
It means accepting our ignorance, acknowledging the
awful gap between the Creator and the creature, and
refusing to narrow-down Reality to our own small
apprehensions and desires. All concepts of God,
from the most crude to the most
'
spiritual ', fall to
silence before His face. And it is the confession
indeed the joyful acceptance of this ignorance,
whether realized by way of
'
pure faith
'
or
'
pure
love ', which is the essence of the mind's active
purification ; preparing it for that deeper and more
120 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
searching action of Spirit which is called the passive
night of the soul.
Being what we are, and living as we do a disorderly
and restless life of ceaseless confusion between the
fugitive and enduring, rational and instinctive levels,
and vagrant correspondences with this and that, we
can hardly hope to come to any real apprehension of
Spirit without such a deep and painful purgation of
the mind. Here we are not concerned with dis-
orders of the moral life, or conflicts between
'
higher
'
and
'
lower
'
desires : but with a total reconditioning,
expansion and unselfing of the intelligence, so that
it may respond by a simple movement of faith and
love to an environment of which Spirit, with its
mysterious demands and attractions, is the ruling
fact.
Flecte quod est rigidum.
When our first crude interpretation of life
according to the witness of sense and suggestions of
personal desire is transcended, our further and more
dangerous claim to interpret Reality in its depth and
richness by means of those
'
rational principles
'
to
which we have attained, must be transcended too ;
if the intellect is ever to become cleansed of pride,
docile to mystery, and accept the limitations within
which it can safely work. Since the reality of Spirit
cannot possibly be clear to our sense-conditioned
understanding, all vivid definition, all appearance of
( logic and clarity, all attempts to equate
'
religion
'
'with
'
science
'
and make the natural and super-
THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT 121
natural fit, are deceptive. For that which is ade-
quate to us can never be adequate to God ;
nor
could a Reality we were able to understand ever
quench our transcendental thirst. We have to
recognize our intellectual concepts as the useful
makeshifts which they really are ; paper currency
which permits the circulation of spiritual wealth,
but must never be mistaken for gold.
For there is no correspondence, no parity, between
our most admirable notions and the Being of God ;
and we only begin to approach a certain obscure
knowledge pf His presence, when we consent to
abandon our arrogant attempts towards definition
and understanding, become the meek recipients of
His given lights, and the silent worshippers of His
unfathomable Reality. Only by a movement of
bare faith does the mind really draw near to Him.
This, in the last resort, is ah
1
it can do here :
pacifying
the soul's house, gathering in its scattered interests,
passions, desires and spiritual preferences, and subdu-
ing them to the single fact of God. Yet this is not
to mean a mere wholesale ejection from our mental
life and our religious practice of all that is not
'purely spiritual'. Real life is richer and more
difficult than this. We are called to a just and dis-
interested use of that many-levelled world which
surrounds us with its graded realities, and in which
we are to find and love beyond all other objects of
desire the one full Reality, all-penetrating Spirit ;
the Origin and sustainer of all these lesser lives,
lights and loves.
122 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
So the purification of intellect does not mean the
deliberate cultivation of a holy stupidity, nor yet a
wholesale retreat from the sensible and the homely :
for then we reject the rich ore in which the treasure
is hidden, and abandon the only machinery for
dealing with it that we possess. It is as human
beings, transformed but none the less completely
human, that our life toward Spirit must be lived ;
and within the sensible order to which we are
adjusted that we must receive the touch of God.
Therefore we shall need the perpetual intervention
of the senses, conveying the messages of Spirit ;
and in order to deal with those messages, the best
mental patterns and concepts that we can achieve.
But if these are not to delude us, we shall need also
a constant, humble remembrance of their proximate
and symbolic nature ;
an awe-struck recognition of
the over-plus, the solemn mystery which penetrates
and sustains our finite world ;
a one-sided relation
to the Reality of God. We must never confuse
with Him any gift or experience of the contingent
world ; even though we are seldom able to approach
Him in isolation from all sensible signs, or dis-
tinguish with certainty substance from accident.
And this is where the stress and difficulty of our
mental purgation is most deeply felt. It creates for
us a situation which is at once costly, humbling and
bracing. It asks a ceaseless tension, a childlike
acceptance of the Infinite given to us in and with
the finite ;
which both redeems us from the risk of
mere quietism, and protects us from intellectual pride,
THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT 123
the arrogant claim to
'
know
'
God. The purifying
action drives the soul's centre of action inwards
from the circumference to the real ground of its
life, where Spirit indwells us ; but this withdrawal
is balanced by a rich and selfless expansion, a
generous outward movement which is the fruit of
that preliminary stripping and retreat. The mind is
cleansed, quietened and expanded, stops its restless
effort to make things fit ;
is opened to the ceaseless
gentle action of the Spirit, which keeps us ever aware
that the best of our apparent discoveries and experi-
/
ences are crumbs with which God feeds us from the
infinite storehouse of Truth. Here then the soul's
attitude must be undemanding and all-accepting :
content to receive Spirit's revelation through earthly
forms and figures, to gaze on the Cross and know that
it offers us a truth we cannot fathom ;
without dis-
turbing reflections as to the aspect under which
that truth is given in
'
Orion or the Bear '.
So our aim must be to escape from all confusion
of gift with Giver ;
from anything which deflects
the soul's upward and outward look to That beyond
itself which it desires. For the pure radiance of
God, says St. John, is never absent from the soul ;
but the images and concepts with which our under-
standings are filled, and to which we attribute reality,
prevent its diffusion. And the first of these impedi-
ments is that tendency to identify sensible signs and
spiritual things, which has always haunted the
history of religion. For here Man is called upon to
accept the humbling necessity of his mixed nature,
124 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
and receive news of the Spirit through the channels
of sense ; yet ever to practise a careful discrimina-
tion between the revealing medium and the Reality
revealed. To remember that in religion all demand
for the sharp and clear, all trust in the image, and
satisfaction with the image, is unsafe ;
whilst refus-
ing the attractive temptation to abandon the whole
world of image and thought, and sink into a mere
undifferentiated
'
awareness
'
of Spirit this indeed
purifies the understanding and subordinates it to
mystery, but does not annihilate it. For then,
refusing to attach ourselves to anything we are able
to know and comprehend, we go out with intense
desire through and in these known and familiar
signs, to That which is inaccessible to the mind ;
and through that which we taste and feel, touch
That which transcends all taste and all feeling.
Once the sensible world, both natural and religious,
TrTenHiolding to^e10Ee7lts~^sWtTarholiness and its
pathetic failures, and reaching out through both in
naked faith to God, the mind is released from slavery
to its own conceptual system ;
and preserved from
mistaking signs for things, pictures for portraits,
and even the most impressive movements and satis-
factions of the religious imagination for revelations
of Reality. The spiritual life, so deep, free and
elastic, so humble in its simplicity and so august in
its span, is ruled by the undemanding adoration of
that Reality. Thus it tends to such a simplification
of our whole psychic nature, that faith, hope and
THE CLEANSING OF THE INTELLECT 125
charity the supernatural vision trust and love
become the varying moods and colours of one single
state ;
a pure abandonment to the vast action of
God.
So the soul in whom this life has been set going
must subordinate all thoughts, concepts, insights, to
this Divine action ; must cling to no religious image,
nor claim for it absolute worth. On the other hand,
entrance into this night of faith solves many of the
difficulties of visible religion for us. Humbly
acknowledging the entire
'
otherness
'
of Spirit and
yet its gentle and continuous action within the world
of sense, we can accept the most homely symbol
and most absurd devotion for that which they are :
modes of the self-giving of that Spirit which is
modeless, yet which uses these sensible channels as
|
a merciful condescension to our childish state, and ;
manifests the royalty of love by meeting us on our \
own ground.
It will be seen from all this that the cleansing of
the understanding must be achieved at least as much
through prayer as through thought. Indeed, from
beginning to end these work together in the soul.
Here, as in the purifying of the natural life, all is
contained in the humble tendency to God, and self-
opening to His dark radiance. For this, of itself,
plunges the spirit into that night of faith which can
alone clear the mind of those unreal rationalisms,
and those deceptive constructions, behind which
we try to shelter from the simple and all-penetrating
blaze of the Divine.
IV
MEMORY AND IMAGINATION
THE
alert understanding, responding at all
points to its environment, and always
ready to interpret in accordance with its
own diagrams and notions the messages which it
receives, is yet only one part or aspect of that total
psychic life which must be submitted to the purifying
action of prayer. Great tracts of mental territory
remain, which need to be cleansed from egoism, and
redeemed from unreality, if all the powers of the
self are to be
'
gathered into the unity of the Spirit
'
and transformed into a single instrument ; supple
to the incitements and demands of God.
If our
'
reasonable power
'
of knowing, analysing
and conceiving was required to acknowledge its own
limitations over against the Infinite, and accept that
humbling discipline of ignorance which is the
foundation of faith ;
still more, our mental stock
in trade, all that mixed material of apperception
which we use without ceasing and mostly without
thinking in the ordinary business of everyday life,
must be exposed to the cleansing rays of super-
sensual truth.
Lava quod est sordidum.
126
MEMORY AND IMAGINATION 127
That psychic storehouse, with its accumulation
of remembered experience pains and pleasures,
repulsions and attractions, images and notions
colours all our reactions to reality, and enchains us
to our past. Still more disastrous is the constant
presence and penetrating odour of the psychic|
rubbish-heap ;
with its smouldering resentments,
griefs and cravings, the empty shells that once held
living passions, the tight hard balls of prejudice,
the devitalizing regrets. All this ceaselessly tempts
us to a sterile self-occupation, destructive of that
simplicity which is the condition of a self-abandoned
love. It reminds us of past sensible and emotional
experiences, brings back into consciousness the old
wounds to our self-love, old conflicts born of pride,
anger, or self-will, and throws up distracting images
whenever our minds are quiet.
Especially on our life towards Spirit, the insistent
presence of this great well of memories, inclinations,
images and dreams, exercises a constant and
damaging influence :
chaining us to the time-series,
and giving past events, griefs and loves an immortal
power. For here, God only must be sought, in and
for Himself, in a pure and trustful streaming out of
will and desire, a single undemanding flight ;
without
the backward glance towards anything already
known, relinquished, longed for, or possessed. This
entirely confident casting of the little spirit on the
great Spirit of God, as birds on the supporting
air in spite of all the drag of the past, and
suggestions of the untrustful mind is that which
128 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
theology means by the state of Hope. By it the
memory whether of sins, fears or sorrows, is
purified
and sweetened. It is the soul's growing point, and
the very means of its self-anchoring in God.
La petite Esperance
Est celle qui toujours commence.
The Bible is drenched in this spirit of unconquered
Hope, a strange, other-worldly certitude shining
through hours of destruction and grief ;
the upward
confident look, out of the confused misery of human
existence, towards an unfailing Power. In the
Psalms which the Church recites on the days that
lead to the Passion, the exquisite paradox of Hope
achieved in suffering mounts up to its comple-
tion in the Cross. For only suffering can give this
mysterious Hope to the spirit, teach it to throw
the whole weight of its trust forwards upon God.
'
Thou art my strong rock and my castle : be thou
also my guide and lead me for thy Name's sake.'
It is not only the dreadful pull of self-occupation,
the ingrained tendency of the psyche to turn back-
wards, rummage among its hoarded experiences,
and reflect upon its own ideas, which deflects the
undivided movement of the spirit towards God.
The uncleansed memory operates disastrously within
the very sanctuary of the devotional life. The total
uncriticized content of our religious store-cupboard
all its phrases, images and symbols entering into
our apperceptive mass, brings many confusions in
its train. We easily become the dupes of our own
MEMORY AND IMAGINATION 129
imaginative and psychological processes (and much
of that which passes for
'
religious experience
'
falls
under this head) ; taking that which is less than
Spirit for a direct intimation of the spaceless and
eternal God. Thus we are led to suppose that we
know Him, when as a matter of fact we only know
our own ideas and feelings about Him ;
and content
ourselves with turning over these unworthy notions
and pictures of an unpicturable Reality.
The whole of popular religious art, and much
religious literature too, witnesses to the deplorable
result of identifying our dim yet deep intuition of
God with its sensible embodiments ;
and to the fact
that many so-called
'
theological problems
'
really
arise from the confusion of our imaginative
machinery with that which it mediates. On the
other hand, in the dangerous realm of supposed
'
mystical
'
experience which is most often psycho-
sensual experience the confusion of religious fan-
tasy with religious fact is one of the most common
traps awaiting fervent souls. The masters of
prayer are untiring in their warnings upon this
subject ;
and indeed any real apprehension of God's
action, however faint and obscure, must sweep from
the mind all images and all notions, and bring it to
a state of pure receptivity. Nevertheless the lives
of the saints, and of many who are far less than
saints, are full of holy, poignant, or attractive day-
dreams, projected images, interior conversations;
which are the clear product of memory and imagin-
ation, but accepted without criticism as direct
130 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
revelations of the supernatural world. Even so
deeply spiritual a work as the Revelations of Julian
of Norwich shows the influence of religious imagin-
ation on every page.
Thus it is of first importance to realize at once
the uses, the limitations, and the dangers of this
strange imaginative power, so little understood by
us, which intervenes between our normal earthly
experience and the simple contacts of the spiritual
life. Most difficulties of adjustment between visible
and invisible religion are caused by this confusion
between our remembered images of God, and His
unmediated presence revealed in prayer. What is
here required is not an inhuman expulsion of all
image, but a careful recognition of the true char-
acter of our religious furniture ;
and a simplifying
so far as is possible without real impoverishment
of the interior decorations of the soul. The religious
mind is often like a mid-Victorian drawing-room ;
full of photographs, souvenirs, mirrors, superfluous
draperies and bits of cabinet-work, which merely
witness to our bourgeois fear of emptiness, and tend
to develop in us a spiritual class consciousness,
which colours our whole outlook on Reality.
'
It
is deplorable ', says Malaval,
'
that among Christians
there is often more of what one might call images
and representations of piety, than the spirit of faith
which ought to live in them. We always want
to love and adore by figures, without going to the
substance of things, and we stop at the means with-
out going to the end.'
MEMORY AND IMAGINATION 131
Thus a clearing-up of the imaginative levels of
religion is an essential and difficult part of the
purification
of our interior life. For here, in this
stock-pot of the soul, primitive symbols, ancestral
memories, pagan fantasies, and natural cravings
decently disguised by the vestments of faith, all
simmer together with the most sacred facts, figures
and phrases : and when their confused results,
coloured with emotion, emerge into consciousness,
they are constantly accepted as
'
religious ex-
perience '.
Especially is this setting in order of
the psychic storehouse, and understanding of its
true nature, needed for any safe and fruitful use
of image and meditation in the earlier degrees of
prayer. For the haunting beauty of Christianity
abides in the tension and contrast between the
Absolute God and His self-revelation among men ;
the stooping-down of the Infinite to enter into
finite forms. Thus the imaginative contemplation
of these scenes through which Spirit is most richly
revealed to us and especially the mysteries of the
earthly life of Christ has always formed a valuable
part of the education and purgation of the Christian
consciousness. For here Spirit takes our mental
apparatus and teaches through it.
'
Mira ! mira !
Look ! look !
'
cried St. Ignatius, as he led his pupils
through those searching exercises which should
bring them at last to the contemplation of the Love
of God. And yet, that at which we look in awe and
devotion, is at least in great part a work of memory
and imagination ; through which the riches of the
10
132 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
Spirit enter our field of perception, and are appre-
hended by our little souls.
'
After all ', says Malaval
again, 'the body one imagines to oneself is not
that of Our Lord ;
it is an imaginary body, which
is as different in the imagination of each one, as the
different imaginations of each one who conjures up
the picture.' But so long as we recognize our
secret theatre for that which it really is, and do
not confuse the dramatic representation with the
unearthly poem that it conveys,, we are safe.
So, whilst the absolute character of the contrast
between the Being of God and the imaginative
embodiments of men (however beautiful and holy)
must never be lost by us ; yet here the arrogant and
total rejection of the helps of the imagination and
the senses is an equally dangerous excess. Each
soul must discover and control the degree of its own
dependence on the sensible :
and, committed as
we are to the mixed life of sense and spirit, none of
us can strip our house of all its superfluous orna-
ments without threatening its hidden structure as
well. The purification we are asked for is at once
more difficult and less drastic than this. For
Spirit, God, the substance of that which the soul
loves and longs for, is ever conveyed within the
image, form or figure that we contemplate ;
since
He penetrates all life. And that part of prayer
which matters most is the simple movement of the
soul towards Him, adherence in her ground. That
this most subtle encounter should be evoked,
expressed and enmeshed within sensible forms is a
MEMORY AND IMAGINATION 133
humbling necessity of our being ;
and would do
nothing but good to us, did we not tend to spoil
everything by allowing sensitive nature to enter
into such active relation with the outward sign,
instead of waiting silently and faithfully on the
inward grace.
That which we are called upon to do, is to dis-
tinguish as clearly as we may between the easy
device of resting in quasi-sensible religious consola-
tions or conceptions, and humble, unconsoled, self-
naughting before God. We are to lean out towards
Him in a simple act of total confidence, without
pondering or analysing our
'
experiences
'
;
none
of which are worth the act of self-abandoned faith
in which we renounce them. As regards all such
distinct religious images or conceptions, we must
enter the
'
cloud of forgetting ', acknowledging their
approximate and imaginary character and passing
beyond them to a meek self-loss in God. Bathed
in mystery as we are, we easily take refuge in the
apparent and the attractive, and avoid the stern
discipline of ignorance. But '
the more we withdraw
from images and figures ', says St. John of the
Cross,
'
the nearer we draw to God, Who has neither
image, form, nor figure.' And though, literally
interpreted, this saying might seem to shut the
door on all visible and sacramental religion, it
remains true if we remember that the saint is really
reminding us of the ever-present danger of accepting
sign instead of thing. We achieve the true liberty
of detachment here, as in the instinctive life, by a
134 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
plain recognition of imagination and memory as
servants but never revealers of Truth. Through their
disciplined use, the touch of God may be realized by
us ;
and our sense of the supernatural deepened and
enriched. Therefore the pure and supple mind will
receive with simplicity all that God-Spirit gives to
it by these strange channels, whilst refusing to rest
in the stimulation or the sign : never accepting the
photograph as a substitute for the living Presence,
or mistaking the best and most enchanting of records
for the Orphic song.
V
WILL AND LOVE ,
X
'
f~B~"^HE proper work of the will is to love God.'
I The relentless drive of our nature towards
M~ an undiscerned and yet desired fulfilment
can have no other end : and in so far as it has
departed from this, its only adequate objective, and
frittered its energies on half-real objects of desire,
its aim must be corrected by the pressure of Reality.
Rege quod est devium.
In proportion to our haunting intuition of the
Perfect, will be the ceaseless disillusionments which
follow our attempt to find and enjoy that Perfect,
embodied in the imperfect satisfactions of the
temporal world. In so far as we try to rest in them,
even the holy incarnations and sacramental actions
of religion baffle while they enchant us : for they
do not quench but stimulate our metaphysical
craving, and point beyond themselves to that all-
cherishing, all-penetrating Loveliness which makes
them lovely, and can only be known by us in the
self-abandonment of love.
O Lux beatissima,
Reple cordis intima
Tuorum fidelium.
135
136 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
Thus to love God, without demand or measure,
in and for Himself
'
that we may abide in Him, not
that any advantage may accrue to us from Him '
says St. Thomas this is Charity : and Charity is
the spiritual life. Only this most gently powerful
of all attractions and all
pressures can capture and
purify the will of man, and subordinate it to the
great purpose of God ;
for as His Love and Will are
One, so the love and will of man must become one.
Therefore all other purifications, disciplines and
practices have meaning, because they prepare and
contribute to the invasion and transformation of
the heart by the uncreated Charity of God.
'
Thou
art the Love wherewith the heart loves Thee.'
For it is only when the secret thrust of our whole
being is thus re-ordered by God and set towards
God, that peace is established in the house of life.
Then, the disorderly energies of emotion and will
are rectified and harmonized, and all the various
and wide-spreading love which we pour out towards
other souls and things is deepened, unselfed and
made safe ; because that which is now sought and
loved in them is the immanent Divine thought and
love. Thus the will transformed in charity every-
where discovers God. It sees behind and within
even the most unpleasing creatures the all-
pleasing Creator ; and loves and cherishes, in and
for Him, that which in itself never could be loved.
It discerns and adores His mysterious action within
the most homely activities and most disconcerting
frustrations of the common life. And by this
WILL AND LOVE 137
humble and glad recognition of that secret Presence,
all the apprehensions of the senses, all the con-
ceivings of the mind, all the hoarded treasures
and experiences of the past, are cleansed and
sanctified.
Veni, lumen cordium.
Nothing but the power and pressure of the
Absolute Love, humbling while it
quickens and
delights, can do this for us :
shedding the light of
charity on our conflicts and problems, persuading
the restless will to cease its arrogant and restless
strivings, and producing that living and supple
detachment using all gifts for God alone, and
doing all works within and for His love which is
the secret of freedom and joy.
'
The closer a soul
approaches God by love ', says Maritain,
'
the
simpler grows the gaze of her intelligence, and the
clearer her vision/ We may be utterly bewildered
by the world of faith when it is presented to our
understanding, and daunted by the effort which
is demanded if we are to lose the life of memory in
forward-tending hope. But the simple penetration
of the Divine Charity neither bewilders nor daunts
us. The soul simplified in charity can go in and out,
and find pasture at every level. All things work
together, because all has been laid open to the
consecrating and clarifying action of the Divine
Love ; and all becomes in fact a medium for the
recognition and expression of that love.
This transforming of the will in love, this simpli-
138 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
fying and supernaturalizing of the whole drive and
intention of our life, by its immersion in the great
movement of the Infinite Life, is itself the work of
Creative Spirit. It is only possible because that
Spirit already indwells the soul's ground, and there
pursues the secret alchemy of love ;
more and more
possessing and transmuting us, with every small
movement of acceptance or renunciation in which
we yield ourselves to the quiet action of God. It
is true that the soul hardly perceives the separate
moments of this mysterious action ;
and only by a
view which takes in long stretches of experience,
can realize the changes which it works.
Yet our own self-discipline and suffering, our
willing acquiescence and adjustment to circum-
stances, could do little here, did they not work
together with the inciting, moulding, indwelling
Power ; submitting us to that secret and passive
purification which cleanses will and emotion of
unreal attachments, and perfectly unites the poor
little love and will of man with the universal Love
and Will of God. Then, when the whole movement
of our being is freely given in love to the purposes of
Spirit, and takes its small place in the eternal order,
we find our place and our peace. We learn to give
significance and worth to our homeliest duties by
linking all the chain-like activities of daily life with
His overruling and unchanging Reality :
'
that most
inspiring and darling relation ', says Von Hiigel,
wherein
'
you have each single act, each single
moment, joined directly to God Himself not a
WILL AND LOVE 139
chain, but one great Simultaneity '. And if we
ask why this self-giving to the vast Divine action,
rather than an individual self-fulfilment, is the goal
of spiritual man ;
the answer is that any other
makes nonsense of our life, gives it no meaning which
is adequate to its cravings and its powers.
Sine tuo numine,
Nihil est in homine,
Nihil est innoxium.
Here, then, reason and love combine to assure us
that our end is God alone ;
first realized as an
influence, one amongst other claims and objects of
desire, and then, as we more and more respond to
His attraction, as the only satisfaction of the heart ;
and at last as the all-penetrating, all-compelling
Reality, that only Life which is recognized by faith,
desired in hope, achieved by Charity. Then, all
those separate movements of love and longing
those passionate self-givings and agonies of desire
in which the struggling and half-awakened spirit
reaches out towards life and draws back to the prison
of solitary pain, find their solution and satisfaction
in God ; and there is established in her that stead-
fast habitude of love which makes of her the open
channel and docile instrument of the one Divine
Love.
'
Who dwelleth in Charity dwelleth in God,
and God in him
'
: for the secret of Charity is an
opening up of the whole tangled, many-levelled
creature to the penetration of that Spirit which
already indwells our soul's ground.
140 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
Then the deep and gentle power of the Unchanging
quickens, possesses and directs the changeful self ;
by its silent pressure perpetually reminding us of
the disharmonies and wasteful follies of our claimful
and divided life, purifying our inward trend and
effort, and turning our nature in its wholeness
towards the purposes of God : till at last the steady
soul, purified in love and become one will with the
hidden all-loving Will, can maintain her easy poise
and orientation, her quiet gaze on God, within
the wild confusing dance of life.
'
Though we here speak of love ', says Barbanson,
'
I would rather term it the divine Spirit, lest some
should mistakenly adhere more to the effect than
to the cause, which is God himself. For love is but
an effect and operation of the divine Spirit. I mean
not only that more impetuous and violent love which
is in the heart and inferior affective part ; but also,
and more, that love which resides in the supreme
will, sweetly informing and filling it with such a
divine motion.'
This cleansing, bracing and transforming of the
will and emotional life is the hardest and most
searching of all the soul's purifications. For it
requires us to take the Cross into the most hidden
sanctuary of personality, and complete that living
sacrifice which the mortifying of the senses began.
Now we must be ready not merely to renounce
natural self-fulfilment and consolation, but super-
natural self-fulfilment and consolation too ; placing
ourselves without reserve in the hand of God, and
WILL AND LOVE 141
subordinating our small interests to the deep require-
ments of His mysterious life. As human love only
achieves nobility when Eros is converted into
Agape, when crude desire is sublimated, and becomes
a self-giving tenderness ; so with the craving for
God which possesses all awakened souls. Only in
so far as it compels us to a single undemanding act
of self-giving can it be reckoned as purged of self-
love ;
and only this simple and unconditioned
charity can make of the soul a point of insertion
for the action of the Spirit within the human world
a tool of the Divine creative will.
This transformation of the will by Charity is
chiefly accomplished, and perhaps most deeply and
painfully experienced, in the life of prayer. For here
the self-regarding instincts of greed, lust and
avarice find their last refuge, and ceaselessly invite
| the devout to a self-regarding spirituality, a seeking
of spiritual enjoyment, a hoarding of spiritual
wealth. And here the purging influence of the Love
of God is chiefly felt in terms of deprivation. It is
true that those short and indescribable moments,
when the soul seems without sign or image to
savour God, are alone completely happy and
unstrained. Then she is absorbed and penetrated
by a life that is peace. Yet this feeling of beatitude
is not Charity. For Charity requires an entire
detachment of the will from pleasurable feeling,
willingness to embrace a dry and unconsoled prayer,
or a vocation that seems to exclude all but the
virtual communion of a ceaseless self-abandonment.
142 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
What is asked is the unselfing of the whole drive
of our God-given nature, its detachment from all
softness and ease, all personal enjoyment and
achievement, even of the most apparently spiritual
kind : and only the hard lessons of dereliction will
accomplish this. It is a rough training, designed
to make of those who can endure it the hardy and
devoted fellow-workers with Spirit ; not the hot-
house products of an intensive piety. Charity must
not seek her own spiritual comfort, or attribute any
importance to her own spiritual apprehensions. As
poor yet making many rich, as having nothing yet
possessing all things, she must achieve the perfect
suppleness, the undivided vigour, of the self-
abandoned but energetic will : not the limp acquies-
cence of the quietist.
The detachment of the soul from the mere
enjoyment of its spiritual correspondences, the
transformation of the easy-going amateur into
the disciplined professional, is mainly achieved
in and through our own psychic and emotional
instability ; ever betraying us, and making impos-
sible the steady enjoyment of light and of con-
soling prayer. Here as elsewhere the suffering
which enters by the door of our own weakness is
always the most humbling and purifying in the
end. By these inevitable alternations of our spiritual
sensitiveness, our spiritual life is detached from
feeling and grounded in faith ;
centred in God and
not in spiritual self. For strong and ardent souls, this
final purging of the will may be a desperate crisis ;
WILL AND LOVE 143
a darkness and storm in which it seems as though
the little boat must founder, a testing to the utmost
of fortitude and of trust.
'
For suddenly, or ever
thou knowest ', says the Epistle of Privy Counsel,
'
all is away and thou left barren in the boat,
blowing with blundering blasts now hither and now
thither, thou knowest never where nor whither.
Yet be not abashed, for He shall come, I promise
thee, full soon when He liketh, to relieve thee and
doughtily deliver thee of all thy dole . . . and all
this He doth because He will have thee made as
pliant to His will ghostly, as a roan glove to thine
hand bodily.'
Such a pliability, which accepts without reluctance
and in peace the strange movements of the Hand of
God, the unexplained vicissitudes of a spiritual
course, is a great earnest of Charity. For only a
very loving self-oblivion can follow the hard counsel
of St. Francis de Sales, and
'
refuse to be troubled
because we are being troubled, or disquieted because
we are unquiet '. Yet those who love much, think
little of the weather. Even though the further out-
look be unsettled, and the visibility far from good,
they are always ready to go forward
'
with the wind
and rain in their face '.
They are convinced that
a dark and arduous prayer, void of self-interest,
and basing all on the steady direction of the pure
bare will to God, unites them more closely to their
Pattern than those devotional enjoyments which
were so conspicuously absent from His life. From
beginning to end Christ never sought for Himself
144 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
any spiritual advantage or consolation. His stead-
fast will and perfect love accepted evenly that which
was uneven, and went without reluctance from
Hermon .to Gethsemane. In the agony of the Pas-
sion, He sacrificed the dearest treasure of His secret
life. All the triumphs of the Spirit have been won
through those who here
'
follow the footsteps of His
holy life
'
and are clear of all taint of spiritual
avarice, all selfish longing for personal beatitude..
So the final cleansing of the will and heart requires
the soul to disregard her own inevitable alternations
of pain and pleasure, communion and dereliction ;
to escape from introspection and subjectivity into
the bracing atmosphere of God. She is to lose her-
self in the great Divine purpose, and in His will
find her unbreakable peace. For though this final
transforming action of Spirit on the soul is first
experienced as a purifying inward suffering, while
our conscious disharmony with God persists ;
when
the soul has at last become pliant to Him and His
interests, it enters into a very quiet and unanalysed
condition of freedom and of joy.
Da perenne gaudium.
The saints have ever sought with an increasing
ardour this simple and self-oblivious ideal. As
faith and hope more utterly possessed them and
subdued to one purpose all the powers of the soul,
so an entire and loving self-donation in and through
circumstance has seemed to them to contain within
itself the whole substance of a spiritual life.
'
What
WILL AND LOVE 145
require I more of thee, than that thou shouldst
study wholly to resign thyself to me ?
'
Indeed,
it is the beggar-maid's only possible response to
Cophetua : for all that she has is her will and her
love.
PRAYER
THE SPAN OF PRAYER
WITHIN
the living experience of the soul
it is impossible to separate the spheres of
purification and of prayer ;
for this
breaks up the solidarity of that Godward life of
man, which is at the same time an ever-renewed
movement of abandonment, an intercourse, and a
transformation. The life of prayer, in its widest
and deepest sense, is our total life towards and in
God ;
and therefore the most searching of all the
purifying influences at work in us. It is the very
expression of our spiritual status, a status at once
so abject, and so august ;
the name of the mysterious
intercourse of the created spirit with that Uncreated
Spirit, in whom it has its being and on whom it
depends. We are called, as the New Testament
writers insist, to be
'
partakers of the Divine Nature
'
:
and this is a vocation which shames while it trans-
forms. So prayer may be, and should be, both
cleansing and quickening :
by turns conversation
and adoration, penitence and happiness, work and
rest, submission and demand. It should have all
ii ,
147
148 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
the freedom and variety, the depth and breadth
of life ;
for it is in fact the most fundamental
expression of our life. And though it is and must
be developed by means of a deliberate discipline,
and through the humble practice of symbolic acts,
these only have importance because they set free
the will from unreal objectives, and help our whole
being to expand towards God.
In all its degrees, from the most naive to the most
transcendental, and in all its expressions from the
most simple and homely devotional acts, to that
passive waiting on the Spirit,
'
idle in appearance,
and yet so active ', which is called by Grou
'
the
adoration most worthy of God '
the very heart of
prayer is this opening up of human personality to
the all-penetrating and all-purifying Divine activity.
On one hand, we acknowledge our need and our
dependence ;
on the other the certain presence of
the supernatural world, the Patria ever in intimate
contact with us, and our own possession of a seed,
a supernatural spark, which knows that world and
corresponds with it. Thus all progress in prayer,
whatever its
apparent form or achievements, con-
sists in the development of this, its essential charac-
ter. It must nourish and deepen our humility,
confidence and love ;
and thus set up and main-
tain an ever more perfect commerce between the
soul's true being and that Being in Whom it lives
and moves. This is why, in the concrete reality of
the interior life, prayer and purification must
always go hand in hand.
THE SPAN OF PRAYER 149
For this mysterious intercourse, so crudely and
so casually practised by us, so little understood,
places our souls conditioned as they are by suc-
cession and contingency at the disposal of that
immanent Spirit of God which indwells and pene-
trates our life, and yet transcends succession and
contingency.
It is a movement ouf towards abso-
lute action ;
man the ever-changing acknowledging
the presence and reality of the Changeless, and
adhering to It in trustful love. This communion
with the Supernatural then, whether active or
passive, interceding or adoring for all these are
the partial expressions of one rich and various
correspondence is the religious act, the religious
state par excellence ; the very substance of a spiritual
life. The apparatus of institutional religion, its
verbal and visual suggestions, its symbolic acts, are
intended to evoke, nourish, organize and direct it.
The form it will take in any one life, will depend
on that soul's particular situation and type ;
the
prayer itself, whether active or passive, corporate
or secret, will always consist in a profound and
active correspondence with the Spirit, more and
more recognized as the inspiring cause of all we
do and are. Devotional words and deeds, medita-
tion, aspiration, recollection and the rest, are there
to help us to evoke and maintain this, which alone
matters ;
to steady the vagrant imagination, give
us suitable suggestions, teach and tranquillize our
souls. In meditation, says Sunn, we go to God on
foot ;
in the prayer of affection we go on horseback ;
150 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
in the prayer of simple recollection we sail in a
good ship with a favouring wind. The essential
thing is that we should undertake the journey;
that the soul's face should be set towards its home.
Yet, because prayer is indeed a supernatural act,
a movement of spirit towards Spirit, it is an act
which the natural creature can never begin or
complete in his own power. Though it seems to
him to be by his own free choice and movement
that he lifts up his soul towards God, it is in truth
this all-penetrating God, who by His secret humble
pressure stirs man to make this first movement of
will and love. The apparent spontaneity, the
exercise of our limited freedom genuinely ours, and
most necessary to the soul's health are yet entirely
dependent on this prevenient and overruling
Presence, acting with power and gentleness in
the soul's ground. Progress in prayer is perhaps
most safely measured by our increasing recognition
of this action, the extent in which Spirit
'
prays in
us
'
and we co-operate with it :
till, in the appar-
ently passive and yet most powerful prayer of the
great contemplative, the consciousness of our own
busy activity is entirely lost in the movement of the
Divine will, and the soul is well content to
'
let
Another act in her '.
But having said this, we must at once add that
here, as elsewhere in the spiritual life, the action
of God is always felt to deepen, stimulate and
direct the self's own action never to abolish it.
!
The
'
holy passivity
'
of the extreme quietist is
THE SPAN OF PRAYER 151
coma, not contemplation. Again and again experi-
ence endorses the axiom of St. Thomas :
'
God's
grace and man's will rise and fall together.' And
if by
'
grace
'
we mean, as we should, the actual
self-giving of the immanent Divine Life, the per-
sonal, manward-tending, love and will of God ;
then
prayer, from the human side, begins with man's
'
response to God's incitement. It is the movement
and expression, part-effort, part-surrender, of his
Godward-tending love and will.
'
A certain impulse
of the will tending to God with all its strength ',
says Malaval, is the first point of real prayer.
This means that even the most passive prayer
shall never be a state of limp dependence. Con-
cealed within its quiet is a vigorous and yet humble
co-operation with Spirit's ceaseless action ; sancti-
fying and sensitizing our spirits, and turning them
to the purposes of Eternal Life. Though all that
really matters is indeed done to us and not by us,
and we realize this more and more fully as the life
of prayer proceeds and deepens our creaturely
sense, the 'marvelous intercourse between finite and
Infinite' is a genuine communion. It demands the
deliberate use of our initiative and will. Acknowl-
edging that we can do little, we must yet do all
that we can: be alert to look, listen and adhere
The asking, seeking, knocking of the Gospel, are
surely the successive stages of an action 'which at
last takes all that we have of determination and
desire ; a deliberate
'
drawing nigh
'
to that only
Reality, the Father and living Ocean of all life
152 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
ever ready to pour in on the creature who desires
Him, and proves its desire by an exertion of
the will, an opening of the soul's door. This is
why the great masters of the spiritual life attach
so much importance to the form of mental prayer
which is known as
'
forced acts of the will
'
; a
spiritual and psychological discipline which is
often laborious and fatiguing, but unequalled in its
power of bringing the reluctant will into ever closer
conformity with the Will of God. For real prayer
is a mutual act. It is that correspondence between
our dependent spirits and His Absolute Spirit,
worked partly by grace, but also partly by our
wills, which is our mysterious privilege as living
children of the Spirit of all spirits, God. This deep
communion, this
'
prayer which is ceaseless ', con-
tinues without interruption in the ground of the
loving soul.
It is true that in the advanced degrees of prayer,
the action of the will is chiefly realized as a total
movement of surrender, a mere placing of the soul
in God's hand; and the further deep action which
follows this surrender is always felt to be the
action of God, rather than that of the soul. Hence
the exaggerated language of some contemplatives
about
'
ceasing to act '. But this language really
describes their own overwhelming sense of the
Divine activity ; as the salmon going down-stream
might feel itself wholly passive in the powerful
current that sweeps it to the sea. Yet the salmon
must do some steering, if it is to make the voyage
THE SPAN OF PRAYER 153
in good order ; and maintains itself in the torrent
by a thousand subtle movements of adjustment and
response. So too that willed surrender, that faith-
ful adherence, which maintains the contemplative
in prayer, is itself an action which makes great
demands upon the soul an active and passive
co-operation, minute by minute, with the subtle
pressures and incitements of God. The Indian
teachers of Bhakti devotion describe two ways in
which the finite spirit may be abandoned to the
Infinite Life : the
'
Way of the Cat
'
and the
'
Way
of the Monkey'. In the first, the soul is like a
helpless kitten in the mother-cat's mouth, carried
to safety without any effort on its own part. In
the second, it cleaves to God with all its might,
like the baby monkey clinging to its mother's
breast. The full creative energy of prayer is
found in those who follow the monkey-way.
As we are nearest facts when we think of Spirit
in terms of Creative Will, so too prayer in its whole-
ness is best understood in terms of will and intention.
Therefore the special form and kind of prayer
developed by any one soul matters very little ;
and distinctions based on the use of set words, the
practice of meditation, the degree of abstraction
from images, have little more importance than dis-
tinctions of custom and dress. All that is required
of any
'
degree
'
of prayer is that it should be the
unstrained response of the praying soul to its true
light and vocation ; and so bring it into ever more
complete harmony with the immanent Divine will.
154 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
And since the vocation of each soul within that great
symphony differs, and all are needed for the complete
expression of the thought of God, we need not be
surprised by the wide diversities, or even the appar-
ent contradictions in attmit and in practice, which
are found in the world of prayer. We are not to
criticize our neighbour's monotonous performance on
the triangle, censure the first violin's deliberate
silence, or look dubiously at the little bit of score
we have received. All contribute to one only
music ;
and this alone gives meaning to their
prayer.
'
This it is that I ask and desire ', says
Thomas a Kempis,
'
that I may always laud and
praise thee.' Some will do this above all in the
upward glance of an adoring worship, some by a
more intimate love, some by the small offerings of
a devoted industry.
Yet something of all these responses of spirit to
Spirit must enter and mingle in the full Godward
life of every awakened soul ;
as the hymn of the
Sanctus, the act of Communion, and the prayer of
oblation, have each their necessary part in a perfect
Eucharist. For the first gives us realism and awe,
protects us from pettiness : it maintains and
nourishes the transcendental sense.
'
Cease the
beholding of yourself and set yourself at nought,
and look on Me and see that I am God.' The
second warms and strengthens that close personal
adherence which is the heart of a spiritual life ;
enriches awe with deep tenderness, and makes the
praying self more and more supple to the delicate
THE SPAN OF PRAYER 155
pressures
of the indwelling Power. The third
redeems our prayer from selfishness, and gives to it
its special place and function within the mystical
body which is built of praying souls. And each of
these responses, will have its active and its passive
form ;
and often the two will alternate within the
self's experience. For passive prayer does not con-
sist in abnormal states of soul, or peculiar feelings.
It is simply that deep movement of surrendered love,
that muted music, in which our own small action
I is more and more subordinated to the living Charity
j
of God.
i If we turn from this great vision to our own poor
i practice, and ask what that is or should be, we find
]
that the span of man's actual prayer, his total God-
ward aspiration, stretches from the extreme of a
*
crude and child-like demand, to the extreme of a
disinterested and undemanding adoration, offered to
'
God Himself and none of His works '. At one
end, we acknowledge our utter and detailed need
and dependence on Spirit our creaturely status
a and turn with an instinctive confidence to the
'
hidden richness which can meet that need in all
its forms. At the other end, the soul's innate passion
for Reality flames out, in awed and delighted worship
of the holy loveliness of God. And between these
terms, one so homely, and one so august, there is
no point at which the intercourse of spirit with
Spirit cannot take place.
It is easy for a hurried or fastidious fervour to
point out the clear superiority of that worship which
.
r
j
\
156 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
1
means only God ', and discredit all petitionary
prayer. Certainly this is the most primitive and
instinctive of all the movements of the soul, and the
one that may most easily be tainted by selfishness.
Yet a loving and confident relation with our Home
and Father, an entire trust in the intimate loving-
kindness of the Unseen, a deliberate laying hold on
the forces of the spiritual universe, is declared by
Christ to be the first point of efficacious prayer.
And being small and limited in resources and under-
standing, we must manage this the best way that
we can.
'
Ask and ye shall receive . . .
every one
that asketh receiveth. . . .' Not perhaps the
expected answer to its petition ; but a disclosure
and gift of Spirit, penetrating and transforming our
situation, with all its needs and desires. Therefore
'what matters here is not the thing demanded, the
poor range of our asking, but the trustful, childlike
temper of the soul ;
its straightforward relation to
God. Where this relation is set up, a new factor
enters human experience. Man is in personal and
filial touch with that Transcendent Life which
penetrates and engulfs him ;
and because of his
acknowledged dependence and confident expectation,
he becomes capable of its gifts. For the indwelling
Spirit, in His creative freedom, must reach down to,
and touch, every need and relationship of His
creation. Indeed, He is already present within
those relationships those we call little and those
we call great in the ceaseless activity of His flexible
love. Thus the soul deliberately bringing in the
THE SPAN OF PRAYER 157
Divine factor, appealing to it with a realistic trust,
'
does effect a genuine change in every situation so
treated ; even though the change may not be appar-
ent on the visible surface of life. So petition or
'
impetration
'
is the naive expression of a real
relationship : all that Origen meant, when he said
that
'
the Christian life is a prayer '.
It is true that the actual prayer of demand, like
all man's religious activities, is a symbolic and
dramatic act. We cannot escape this judgement,
when we consider the relation of that battering on
the doors of heaven, that desperate wrestling with
the Spirit to which we are sometimes drawn, with the
God Who is
'
present everywhere and at all times
'
and works in tranquillity within the soul. Yet this
urgent and trustful petition, crude though its expres-
sion may sometimes be, is the beginning of realistic
and efficacious prayer ; and one of the most signifi-
cant of all the movements of man's spirit. The open
beak and expectant trust of the baby bird are a
tribute to the mother's faithfulness and love ;
an
acknowledgement of fact. So, in this ever-renewed
movement of supplication, this waiting on God, we
express that deep sense of the infinite Generosity on
which we depend and our own poverty and need
over against it, which is the very heart of man's
religion :
tempering the awe-struck worship of the
Holy by a confident appeal to the Father and
Shepherd of souls. As the child said when she first
heard the Te Deum,
'
the splendid bit is where you
change the gear '.
II
ADORATION
SURELY
the
'
marvellous intercourse
'
of spirit
with Spirit which is the essence of a life of
prayer, can only begin and be maintained in
adoration. The first real response of the awakened
creature to the overshadowing and awakening
Power, must be a lifting up of mind and heart to
God in Himself ; the humble, undemanding love of
adorer for Adored. Indeed, this awe-struck love
must penetrate and sanctify all prayer. Everything
is safe which can live within its aura : all is suspect
which slurs the deep sense of God's priority and
absolute demand.
'
Let my prayer be set forth in
Thy sight as the incense ', says the Psalmist, watch-
ing the quiet smoke of that unearthly offering. Its
very heart shall be a costly act of purest worship ;
ascending from visible to Invisible, from changeful
man to the Abiding God. It shall not be self-
regarding, anxious, utilitarian. It shall be fragrant
with adoring love. Then, perhaps, the lifting up of
my restless hands towards the Eternal may become
as the evening sacrifice ;
that meal-offering which
hallowed and dedicated the homely stuff of everyday
life.
158
ADORATION 159
Unless this inarticulate spirit of adoration, the
primitive fundamental response of our spirits to
God's Spirit, however imperfectly conceived, colours
our whole intercourse with Him, we shall not get our
proportions right. Without that humble upward
look and upward aspiration of the little creature to
the Infinite, the life of prayer quickly becomes
shallow, cramped, utilitarian ;
or even cheaply
familiar. For the true situation of the soul entering
prayer, is that of the young Isaiah when the glory of
the Lord filled the Temple, and he found himself in
the presence of a Reality at which even the seraphs
dared not look. To forget this, and with it the
lessons of the incense and the box of precious oint-
ment, is to cut off our prayer from that which is
the very source of its deepest inspiration and power ;
the awed yet loving sense of God's absolute primacy,
the drawing nigh to Him because He alone matters,
and His creatures only matter because of Him.
'If, says Huvelin,
'
a soul said to me,
"
To-day
I saw God," I should ask
"
How do you feel in
yourself, now that God is so near to you, has entered
into you ?
"
If she were indeed penetrated by
Him whom she had received she would reply
"
I
find myself very small I have fallen very low."
Confusion of face is the inevitable reaction, the
essential impression, of the soul who has seen God
pass by in His greatness.' That note of wonder and
abasement, the deep feeling of the utter difference
in kind between the Eternal God and that creation
which He is making for Himself and yet the
i6o THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
marvellous fact, that He desires and incites each
'created spirit to draw near to Him, and seeks with
a greater thirst than He is ever sought : this is
never absent from the deepest and most prevailing
prayers of the saints.
In Isaiah's vision, those spirits of pure love who
stood nearest to the Glory asked for nothing. In
deepest reverence, they delighted in God ;
content
to see nothing and do nothing, so long as they were
maintained before His face.
'
Each one had six
wings ; with twain he covered his face, and with
twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly.
And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy,
holy, is the Lord of hosts : the whole earth is full
of his glory.' We, drawing near, must at least make
an effort to share this point of view. For only that
disinterested temper which is lost in the great tide
of worshipping love can save our small prayer from
sentimentality, self-occupation, the vices of the
devotee ;
and defeat the ignoble tendency to make
God useful to man, instead of man useful to God.
So the awe-struck yet confident drawing nigh of
the praying soul to the mystery over against it, the
lifting up of the eyes of the little creature to that
Holy Reality in humble worship not because it
wants something, but because it feels His compelling
attraction, the strange magnetism of the Divine
this dim and yet delighted wonder must be the
soul's first instinctive response to God's self-revela-
tion. It is a response which seems to arise spontane-
ously in the very deeps of the natural life, and bind
ADORATION 161
all creation, conscious and unconscious, into one
single act of worship ; praising and magnifying that
Absolute Beauty and Truth for and by whom all
things are made. There is a story by Osbert Sitwell,
which tells how a traveller in the equatorial forests,
hearing strange sounds at night, looked out from
his window ;
and saw in the courtyard, where it
was imprisoned, a great anthropoid ape one of
those tragic creatures just verging on the human
bowing in solemn adoration before the splendour of
the rising moon. The traveller gazed at this
spectacle with awe.
'
I had seen ', he said,
'
the
birth of religion.' Innocent nature emerging from
its sleep, and already finding in that first vague
moment of consciousness something beyond itself
which it must adore ;
the first and simplest of the
self-disclosures of God, pouring out His strange
beauty upon the natural scene, and inviting His
creatures' recognition along the channels of sense.
And surely in this primitive, instinctive act of
worship, this profound abasement of the creature
before the unspeakable mystery over against it, we
see something both sacred and fundamental in the
relation of all life to God ;
the first glimmering con-
sciousness of Supernature, everywhere present, and
speaking to the supernatural spark that is buried
within us, in a tongue that it can understand. As
the Magi came a long and difficult journey, to find
that the shepherds were before them ;
and even the
hurrying shepherds found the animals already in
place so it is deep within the natural order that
162 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
the embryonic power of prayer, which is at bottom
a state or condition of soul rather than a distinct
activity, stirs from its sleep.
Adoro te devote, latens Deltas,
Quae sub his figuris vere latitas.
Here adoration begins, in a realistic acknowledge-
ment of the Transcendent, however imperfectly
understood. For all prayer is first evoked by the
gentle self-revelation of Spirit to spirit ;
the dis-
closure of His glory in a way that our limited minds
can bear, 'coming down like the rain into a fleece
of wool, even as the drops that water the earth '.
In the splendour of tropical moonlight ;
in those
symbolic acts of the religious cult which lead us
beyond themselves to Him ;
in the persistent and
secret touches of Spirit in the soul's deeps, or in the
powerful and heart-searching love of some incon-
spicuous saint, the only Perfect perpetually invites
our recognition : and here, to recognize is to adore.
Thus adoration is the first and greatest of life's
responses to its spiritual environment ;
the first and
most fundamental of spirit's movements towards
Spirit, the seed from which all other prayer must
spring. It is among the most powerful of the educat-
ive forces which purify the understanding, form and
develop the spiritual life. As we can never know
the secret of great art or music until we have learned
to look and listen with a self-oblivious reverence,
acknowledging a beauty that is beyond our grasp
so the claim and loveliness of God remain un-
ADORATION 163
realized, till we have learned to look, to listen, to
adore. Then only do we go beyond ourselves and
our small vision, pour ourselves out to that which
we know not, and so escape from our own pettiness
and limitations into the universal life.
Tibi se cor meum totum subjicit
Quia te contemplans totum deficit.
Adoration can never long remain a private ecstasy.
As sometimes in the vast and solemn life of the
mountains or the forest, or in the small perfection
of a very humble plant, we are suddenly aware of
the breathless worship which creation offers to its
God ; so now we enter into a new relation with that
whole created order, and realize our own part in its
response to the Creative Love. 'We scale', says
Nicholas of Cusa,
'
that wall of invisible vision
beyond which Infinity is to be found
'
; join with
those who see more than ourselves, and accept the
fellowship of those who see less. Our small voices,
so feeble in their solitude, augment the one universal
chorus of creation ; with angels and archangels and
all the company of heaven lauding and magnifying
one Holy Name.
It is true, that when we come to the practice of
this surrendered adoration, so difficult to the troubled
and arrogant soul of the modern world, we discover
with a certain astonishment that there is much less
difference than we like to suppose between our
methods and possibilities and those of the primitive ;
already stirred by a spirit that he knows not to
12
164 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
abase himself before the mystery of the Unseen.
We bring, as St. Paul would say, our
'
carnal
'
inheritance with us, and share his childlike status
over against the Reality of God. Thus we worship,
not yet in spirit or in truth, but as best we can.
As the primitive sought to express his deep emotion
in ritual action, his na'ive and puzzled sense of
the Unseen in myth, we are compelled by our
limitations to the same devices. We are still drawn
to rhythms and gestures which come to us from the
childhood of man ;
still find significance in practices,
of which the lowly origin is hardly concealed.
Whether it be the survival or deliberate reproduction
of ancient cultus the Easter taper of tradition, or
the votive electric light of the modern shrine there
is surely a deep pathos in these childlike motions of
the soul. Again and again men perceive their
inadequacy, and again and again revert to this, the
natural language of symbol and myth. Thus,
ascending to the
'
fine point of the spirit
'
we are
yet treading primaeval strata all the way ;
and this
is far better, safer and more humbling than trying
to make the journey through the air. The world's
altar-stairs begin in the jungle ;
and there is a dis-
concerting continuity between the first awed and
upward look of pithecanthropus and the dark con-
templation of the saint. We cannot go far in the
life of devotion without being reminded of this
humbling solidarity of the race. For man, whether
'
civilized
'
or
'
uncivilized ', knows very little about
the Being of God. The great mountain ranges of
ADORATION 165
His unsearchable majesty are hidden in the clouds ;
and the more fully the soul enters the life of prayer,
the more deeply it realizes this. Clouds and dark-
ness are round about Him. Adoro te devote latens
Deitas is the last word of the worshipping spirit, as
well as the first.
Yet the whole of life in its splendour and contrasts,
seen with the eyes of humble admiration, will give
us hints and intimations of that Reality and that
Presence which transcends and supports it ;
and
points beyond itself to the Perfection on which it
depends. God, who is there before us, invites our
delighted praise along a thousand paths. Limited
incarnations and disclosures of the Eternal, moulding
the web of things to His revealing purpose, and using
the rich beauty of creation to convey a Beauty
Increate, perpetually stir to life our latent tendency
to awe-struck worship. Love and sacrifice in
humble places guarantee the Love that moves the
stars.
For Christian experience, the life and person of
Christ stand apart as the greatest of these self-
revelations ; the perfect self-expression of the Holy
in human terms, and the supreme school and focus
of man's adoring prayer. For here the Invisible
God, by the most wonderful of His condescensions,
discloses His beauty and attraction the brightness
of His glory and the express image of His person
in a way that is mercifully adapted to our limitations,
and meets us on our own ground. Therefore the
events of Christ's life alike the most strange and
166 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
the most homely are truly
'
mysteries '.
They
contain far more than they reveal. They are
charged with Spirit, and convey the supernatural to
those who are content to watch and adore. Because
of this, Christian devotion moves ever to and fro
between adoring and intimate prayer ; passing
through the incarnational veil to the Absolute
Beauty, and returning to find the Absolute Beauty
shining through the incarnational veil.
'
Let thy
thoughts be always upward to God and direct thy
prayer to Christ continually,' says Thomas a
Kempis. Thus the great horizon gives its meaning
to the welcoming figure ;
and the welcoming figure
makes the great horizon safe and fair.
And here the soul's actual prayer will be a reflec-
tion of its whole life. The only preparation for such
an adoring approach to Spirit, is a daily response to
circumstance which is coloured by the delighted
reverence that finds the natural scene and all its
contacts and relationships, its sufferings and enjoy-
ments, sacred for the sake of His indwelling and
overshadowing Life.
'
The Holy Spirit ', says Grou,
'
will either govern all your actions, or cease to
govern your prayer.' It is
only when life and prayer
are thus well mixed together, that the atmosphere
has been created in which the work of prayer can
be done. For it is within this penetrating and awe-
struck sense of God Present, not as one among other
facts and demands, but as the one real Fact and
Demand ever pressing on His creature, that self-
giving to His purposes emerges and grows. Adora-
ADORATION 167
tion, for the soul which has truly learnt it, will, as it
more and more possesses the praying spirit, lead on
to self-offering. Then the deep prayer in which we
pass away from our preoccupations and sink down
into the soul's ground, will tend more and more to
become a very simple act of self-abandoned love.
And as each great phase of the life of prayer ever
tends to pass over into silence, so this. First the
best words and rhythms that men have found, to
stir and maintain the mind and heart in its worship
of Reality: and then the pause and hush of a
delighted homage : and at last something so abso-
lute, that the creature is lost in an act of praise which
possesses, engulfs, transcends its very life.
Ill
COMMUNION
THE
prayer of adoration must end on the cry
of St. Augustine :
'
Lord, I seek not to
penetrate thy lofty nature, for in no way
do I compare my understanding with it.' For the
more deeply we enter the worshipping life, the more
profoundly we experience the transcendence and the
otherness of That which we adore : and the more
deeply purifying is the failure of our understanding
before the reality of God. And were this meek,
objective worship the beginning and end of our
relation with Reality, the note of ceaseless joy on
which the Golden Sequence closes could never be
heard in human prayer. But all is not over, because
the Radiance that attracts also daunts us, and one
side of our response to Spirit must always be a
humble acknowledgement of our ignorance and
nothingness before the rich simplicity of God. For
that rich simplicity has a certain kinship with the
creature, which It is ever moulding and creating
both from without and from within. Spirit indwells
and penetrates the soul's very fabric as a quiet
Love ;
and it is here, in our ground, that we are to
experience the most intimate and transforming
168
COMMUNION 169
realities of Prayer. Here we may come to know by
the penetration of the heart, that which we can
never understand by the. exercise of the mind.
For the life of prayer, in its full and balanced
development, unites a width and depth of vision with
a great interior dependence and intimacy. The
vision of God and the love of God complete each
other ;
one expands and enlightens, the other
humbles, deepens and enslaves the soul. So long
as we are human, both thought and feeling must
enter into our response to surrounding realities ;
and in the life of prayer this thought and feeling,
touched by the Supernatural, become transformed
into a great awe and a great love. Thus the prayer
of adoration passes almost insensibly into the prayer
of communion and self-offering, as worship becomes
more realistic, more deeply coloured by love.
Indeed it has sometimes been said that adoration
and self-giving together cover the whole ground of
human prayer.
But this description is only adequate to prayer
as seen from our side, and expressed within our
poor categories. In its wholeness, it is something
at once more subtle, more rich and free than this.
It is a give-and-take, a conversation, between Spirit
and spirit.
'
May thy treasuries be laid open to
me ', said St. Ethelwold,
'
and my mind laid open
to thee/ We only give, or want to give, because
He gives first ;
are only driven towards Him because,
as the old mystic says, He already
'
has his sail in
our ship '.
170 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
Veni, pater pauperum,
Veni, dator munerum,
Veni, lumen cordium.
Of this generous coming of the Spirit is born all
human prayer. Hence that which is adoration
when it turns toward God Infinite, deepens to the
sacred wonder of communion, when it turns towards
God Intimate.
Dulcis hospes animae !
This too represents or suggests under human symbols
a most real and clear experience, a real relationship
between the eternal Father of Spirits and the child-
like praying soul : a loving intercourse with That
which is far beyond us, and yet is found to be
divinely near.
And here it is that penitence enters most fully
into prayer. For when we thus recognize the gentle
touch of the Holy and the Perfect on our smudged
imperfect selves ; then contrition, because our
response is so impaired by slackness, self-indulgence
and sin, overwhelms and humbles us. And in so
doing it opens our souls to the purifying action of
Spirit, softens and tranquillizes, and increases our
capacity for God.
'
How delicately thou teachest
love to me !
'
says St. John of the Cross. If we are
ever to learn it, we must be ready to move with
suppleness between the most unearthly and most
personal recognitions. We must recognize our own
poverty over against the generous Divine richness ;
our own guilt in respect of the crucifixion of Divine
COMMUNION 171
Love. We must by turns ascend to the spire-top
of the spirit, and sink into the deeps of the soul's
ground. For all the resources of poetry, and all the
contrasting images and experiences of man's emo-
tional life, can only suggest but never give the
content of this simple yet incredible intercourse
between the fugitive in its weakness and instability,
and the Abiding in its infinite power.
In this developed prayer of communion, however
simple and inarticulate its form may be, a strange
sympathy is set up between the soul and its Home
and Father. Dimly yet quite truly, we begin to be
conscious of a steady supple pressure, felt both
within and without the soul ;
and a loving peaceful
joy in the great purposes of Spirit, swamping all per-
sonal anxiety and desire.
'
For God ', says Malaval,
'
who has created the soul, and is himself pure Spirit,
knows better than any one else can know how to
speak to the spirit : which is, in reality, to act upon
it, not with tumult, trouble or agitation but in solid
peace and profound tranquillity.' And because of
this sympathy, this deep and tender communion
which is the consummation of self-giving, we find
we possess a certain dark but real understanding of
the Will, Desire, Direction, of the Mind of God ;
we have a sure sense of being taught and disciplined
through all the events that come to us, and through
His touches felt in our very substance ; over-
shadowed and guided in choices and moments of
crisis, in giving guidance to others, in distinguishing
the real and false issues of life. And although we
172 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
must still
'
direct our wills vigorously towards God ',
maintaining our adherence with steadiness and
courage, as the baby monkey clings with all its
might ; still, more and more all that matters seems
to be given us, we share more and more fully the
generous and life-giving Life.
In labore requies,
In aestu temperies,
In fletu solatium.
Perhaps the simple contemplation to which many
souls are drawn, is best understood as a dim realiza-
tion of this status. For if, outside prayer, the soul
interrogates her own experience, and asks what it is
that so firmly stops or else so quietly absorbs her
own activity, it is surely the sense of all being done
by Another, to whom she adheres a Presence which
has absolute priority within her life. St. Patrick in
his
'
Confession
'
tells how one night he saw in vision
Christ praying within his soul ;
and he heard a voice
which said
'
I am that Spirit, which prays in thee and
above thee '. So too we know ourselves at last to
be gathered into a greater Life, at once personal and
infinite, in us and above us, and there feel at home ;
as, on natural levels, we feel at home in our ordinary
objective world.
Mystics, trying to tell us of their condition, often
say that they feel
'
sunk in God like a fish in the
sea '. We pass over these phrases very easily, and
forget that they are the final result of a struggle to
find the best image for an admittedly imageless truth.
COMMUNION 173
Yet prayer is above all the act in which we give our-
selves to our -soul's true Patria ; enter again that
Ocean of God which is at once our origin and our
inheritance, and there find ourselves mysteriously
at home. And this strange, home-like feeling kills
the dread which might overcome us, if we thought of
the unmeasured depths beneath us, and the infinite
extent and utter mystery of that Ocean into which
we have plunged. As it is, a curious blend of con-
fidence and entire abandonment keep us, because of
our very littleness, in peace and joy : content with
our limited powers and the limitless Love in which
we are held. Nothing in all nature is so lovely and
so vigorous, so perfectly at home in its environment,
as a fish in the sea. Its surroundings give to it a
beauty, quality, and power which is not its own.
We take it out, and at once a poor, limp dull thing,
fit for nothing, is gasping away its life. So the soul
sunk in God, living the life of prayer, is supported,
filled, transformed in beauty, by a vitality and a
power which are not its own. The souls of the
saints are so powerful because they are thus utterly
immersed in the Spirit : their whole life is a prayer.
The Life in which they live and move and have their
being gives them something of its own quality. So
long as they maintain themselves within it, they are
adequate to its demands, because fed by its gifts.
This re-entrance into our Origin and acceptance of
our true inheritance is the supernatural life of
prayer, as it may be experienced by the human soul.
Far better to be a shrimp within that ocean,
174 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
than a full-sized theological whale cast upon the
shore.
In our own small practice this deep and simple
communion may be given to us under the most
personal or impersonal symbols. For some it is
centred on Christ's person ;
and experienced as a
still abiding in the aura of the beloved Presence.
All the poetry of Christocentric devotion is born of
this type of prayer. Sometimes, as in sacramental
communion, the soul is aware of a positive inflow
of the Divine Charity and Peace. Sometimes the
quiet brooding on a word, a phrase, a mystery a
tranquil chewing of the evangelical cud though it
does not seem to give fresh food or knowledge, does
give or revive in us the very flavour of God
'
having
in itself all sweetness and all savour ', and draws us
into a communion that is beyond speech. Some-
times the
'
rapt spright
'
is subdued to an Action
which has no image, and of which we can say nothing
at all.
Or this prayer may be realized by way of a general
and increasing tendency of the soul to recollect
itself in God, entering at last a silence of peculiar
quality, sometimes dry and costly, sometimes
deeply joyful ; when we hardly know where we
are or what is done to us, or why it is imperative
that our own activity should cease. Whatever its
form, we need not hope to maintain this state for
long periods, at least as a conscious experience. It
should be accepted and relinquished, humbly and
without strain : for it always appears to the self as
COMMUNION 175
something
'
given ', which cannot be procured by
any exercise of the w;ll and only presupposes the
readiness of the heart.
Here variety in method and in attrait seem to
matter very little. In all one Spirit works, adopting
and overruling the fragmentary contributions, move-
ments and stimulations of memory, sense and
thought. Berulle, who has spoken most deeply,
and yet most simply, of the life of prayer, describes
it as a threefold relation of the soul with God ;
adoring, adhering, and co-operating. Thus adora-
tion is the root, communion the flower, intercessory
action the fruit, of that divine-human love which
binds in one the total life of prayer. And these three
responses of spirit to Spirit, all of which must enter
into the full prayer of the awakened creature, are
simultaneous not successive : even though they will
be present in varying proportions within each life,
and at each stage of the soul's growth. For they
mean the surrender and satisfaction of mind, of heart,
and of will ;
and each depends for its full and perfect
exercise on all. Only the heart and mind purified
by the rigours of bare faith, and disciplined to
adoration, can accept the wonder of a Reality which
meets it within its own frontiers, is already present
in every fibre of its being, and asks only for its self-
giving love ;
and only a soul in which that deep
communion is established can co-operate with the
Divine energy at work within the world of souls
and things.
So even this deep and satisfying communion of
176 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
spirit with Spirit, which more and more dominates
those lives that are becoming sensitive to God, is
found to point beyond itself. It may never be
accepted and enjoyed as a private satisfaction. It
looks towards some creative goal ; general or
particular, remote or immediate. It has a definite
place within the eternal purpose, because it puts the
half-grown soul at the disposal of the moulding
Spirit in a way that nothing else can do. If we give
a sufficiently wide and deep meaning to our terms,
this is true even of the most apparently passive and
formless prayer of contemplation ;
which seems to
the praying soul to be no more than the, expression
of its own thirst for self-abandonment, and merely
Vpi place it in the Hand of God. For since the aim
of the immanent Divine Will is the supernaturaliza-
tion of all life, and prayer is a sovereign means by
which the Divine immanence works on, in, and
through the heart and will of man, we cannot deny
creative purpose even to such passive and generalized
prayer. It is indeed always declared by the mystics
to have profound effects, which are not limited by
its transforming action on personality. They regard
it as the medium of an actual conveyance of life,
and hence the direct cause of their powers.
'
In this
prayer ', says Grou,
'
stripped of image and appercep-
tion . . . the soul unites herself to God in her ground ;
the created intelligence to Uncreated Intelligence,
without the intervention of imagination or reasoning
or anything else but a very simple attention of the
mind and an equally simple application of the will.'
COMMUNION 177
And by this simple union and this tranquil applica-
tion of a self-abandoned love, the soul becomes the
tool and channel of the Creative Love.
Thus communion and intercession, adherence and
collaboration, can never be separated in experience.
They are completing aspects of that total life of
prayer, of which the key-word is to be fiat voluntas
tua. Even while it moves, within the action of
God, towards that complete surrender which puts
it, in action and in contemplation, wholly at the
disposal of the
Creatiye Will, this life moves also
to a discovery and fulfilment of its own unique task
within the mystical body of praying souls.
IV
ACTION
OD ', says Pascal,
'
has established prayer,
in order to communicate to His creatures
the dignity of causality.' He delegates to
our half-grown spirits something of His own power
and freedom ;
allows our wills, under His incitement,
and in union with His own, to originate action upon
spiritual levels, exert influence within the web of
circumstance. Christ's teaching about prayer em-
phasizes its energetic power ;
and suggests that we
!
by our confident action evoke a responsive move-
ment from the enfolding spiritual world. This is
intercession ;
that creative prayer which crowns the
life of adoration and communion. For the goal of
this life can never be a sterile beatitude, a
'
divine
duet
'
between God and the soul. It must always
point beyond itself. Even the purest prayer of
adoring contemplation and self-mergence needs for
its justification the whole economy of that spiritual
universe within which it arises, to which it contri-
butes, and by which it is fed.
For the aim of soul's self-giving to Spirit, and
Spirit's possession of soul, is that the soul may
expand, become more deeply living and creative,
178
ACTION 179
and be woven into that spiritual body, the Invisible
Church, through which the work of the Spirit is done.
The great liturgic action of the Church Visible, its
ceaseless corporate life of intercession, self-offering,
adoration, only has meaning as the outward expres-
sion of this mystery of
'
the Spirit and the Bride '.
And on the other hand, the personal life of prayer
only has its meaning, because it is part of that great
life-process, of which the limits are unknown to us,
and which is bringing in the Kingdom of God. And
hence, its full exercise is only possible where the
Divine Charity purifies and possesses the soul. As
adoration led on and in, to a personal relationship
of communion and self-offering ; so, from that entire
self-offering and not otherwise there develops the
full massive and active prayer in which the human
spirit becomes in a mysterious way the fellow-worker
with the Holy Spirit of Creation ;
a channel or
instrument through which that Spirit's work is done;
and His power flows out to other souls :
and things.
The dynamic Love of God, moving:
'
secretly
:
'
and
quietly within the wetj of circumstance", finds in
1
the
man . of -
prayer the' 'most subtle and- powerful oft its
tools.- ;.;':::' .0..
(.;/>.' ': V'JV-.Y, .-'! v >v .v,..%,
-.o7 Thou hast .made-us for -Thyself'' :-'n6t'bnl-^ to 'be
Worshippers'
1
,
'-'but --to 'be Workmen.
'
The'
!
Will 'trans-
formed in charity, and' united with that;;
f)ower'bf
God -'which indwells our -finite spirits, can :
and does
rea'ch' out by supplrcatioivby immblatfon;
:
by-'suffer-
ing, or by-a.' steady and a'patierii; "love ;'
!
to rescue''
'k ehaiige, give'suppoft a'nd'light:' Ifrarid^Kroxigh
13
i8o THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
it is manifested some small ray of the saving and
redeeming power of God. That is real intercession ;
a spiritual activity which is entirely misunderstood
by us, if we think of it merely in terms of petition.
For real intercession is in the last resort a part of the
creative action of God, exercised through those
created spirits which have achieved a certain union
with Him. And it requires for its real and safe
exercise that temper of humble worship, and that
habitude of docile correspondence, which the life of
adoration and communion develops in the soul.
Only a will that is purified and nourished by the
indwelling Spirit and confirmed in the humble know-
ledge of its own dependent state, can recognize those
quiet pressures which indicate the path its inter-
cessions should take, and subordinate its work for
souls to the overruling Divine Will :
preserved from
perverse desires and vagrant choices by its meek and
adoring inclination towards God.
For as there is a counterfeit devotion which
ministers to spiritual self-interest and self-love, and
is content with a greedy enjoyment of the sweetness
of prayer ; so there is also a counterfeit intercession,
which may be merely the disguised exercise of a
vigorous but unsurrendered will not self-given for
the promotion of the Divine purpose, but demanding
the fulfilment at all costs of its own desires. This,
and this only, is
open to the common accusation of
'
trying to change the mind of God '. For here the
aim is not a self-abandoned collaboration in His
unseen purpose, the conveyance of grace or healing
ACTION 181
in accordance with a hidden design ; but the achieve-
ment of self-chosen ends, the particular success,
conversion, rescue, or recovery on which our deter-
mination is set.
It is even possible that such a vigorous action of
the will under the form of impetration may achieve
its object, and snatch a dubious triumph ;
as our
wilful intervention on the physical plane may some-
times enjoy an undesirable success. But this effec-
tive employment of our psychic energy is not to
be claimed as an
'
answer to prayer
'
;
and is not
necessarily in accordance with the Spirit's will.
The mysterious power of mutual influence is little
understood. But at least we know that it can
operate on many levels, some of them less than
spiritual ;
and in many directions, not all of which
may lie in the direction of the Mind of God. That
this should be possible is inherent in our limited
freedom, and brings with it the capacity for going
wrong, and even perhaps for doing harm. There
may therefore be real danger in the persistent exer-
cise of a strong and unmortified will, an obstinate
choice, a passionate craving, under the appearances
of prayer. It is clear, for instance, that the fervent
and competing supplications bom of national or
sectarian intolerance, which demand with complete
assurance the failure or success of military operations,
the triumph of opposite doctrinal views, or the
conversion of individuals from or to a particular
Christian Church, cannot all be the work of the
Spirit Who '
prays in us and above us '. Yet these
182 THE GOLTDEN SEQUENCE
actsidf' wlfrmaie their ieontributioii 'to :OUF Invisible
environment ?
'
and in proportion*to tlteiirvigburWay
producer certain effect^^mpOft^he^sychiG
It is true that in so far as any desire,
crud# ^mistaken, is :
re-aUy 'Mrteek^p^itl* 'confident
trustantq; the 'spiritu^
and -made: 'safe p aincHttiiay> ln^ptiD]io^ionK;t6othe
praying souls' dbpility, t)b -transformed-into a' -diiaiinel
of -grace) 'uhfecognized^pertops^a^Mi^soanswer :-'
yet
truly- ;the response\> of.*
Spirit
>
to ithe^ iGodwciiid imove^
ment -of- ^the soul's desire. -fr/Fori 'here there' has Tbeeri
an appeal^toi the^ Holy 7 a viriuai' acknowledgement
of/ its priority^ -which; InvolvesTTeat^ubordination; ;to
its Will, even thoughvthe^JrayerJitself^be little^ better
tfeatt a>:
yelp
1
of' anguish* -or <-a>
desperate appeal f01?
relief; Arid by. this ^verylfact' .the^s{tuatioh>!
f
how-:
ever little' understood^^by iis/'is
1
changed-'ji^subdued
to ;
the!
mflueflicesi of ^he^supe'rnaturaf wbrldi; and
brought 'into: immediatte iGontact iiyith -the-' power^of
God ^o salvation
1
^: -b This is rpbssible; because, inter^
cessor^ 'action Is always in itne ^last TesortHhe action
of1
Ae-'-Spirit usingi-the' human ^creuture^ as 'its- tool
in"Gharity; the1
desire'- wHeh , has^beeft brought; to
Getlisernane and subordinated tQ- i?he;:purposes of 'the
Spirit-^fusirig all -distinct'pe'titions in: ihet great .J5
!^
of > v
surrendered
'
-love^-4s^>aloriie- ;
fully
^1 effective'', and
entirely saier SO'thev-nhal purifigatfon ihiloveiof the
human-spirit; and the Machievement bf its .peculiar
destiny as a'coliabofatbr inrthc Spirit's' 'work>i mmt
gO't'ogeth'er ; obverse^andireverse^pf the uriitive ifei
r> %m -183
Thtea tjie f spuI's;;t0Mli; prayer e&tecsj -andl dsi absoEbed
ptpir/thatT/cjBa^gljBs^ivDiyiiSafe'/ aetmnvby :wMch,uthe
created order is maintained and transformed. .5 -Eof
by-olfcheprayeii- pi-rsel&abandQnmentiO she) enters
another] .regip,n>;
<
$0$i
by adherence,;
j& established dri
it..;; ^erfK,t}ae j st^itgajehergy^]6f ivvill 3fchai>iis an/us
an4;.sp c^ten }^as^(J on ;
unworthyi erids;])can be
applje'jl jler/.ithe,!5ypfI^KS (need^sometirnes/ in -pairtimi-
lar a^tjionsjr sometimes; ^lajbsorjptipni^ntoj^hecpiare
Act o|-?Godfj::
>
r-jfvrj- ;3i.?;rs !..*..;);"
?
...i; ;
^)h^i\ i.s'Ms.'v.v rJ-;
1
,
Forr,a|l ; re,a4)prayer t is ^part j Ql,the ; Divine laction;
It is, as;^t,f^Ba^;Sa^Sj ;
%^itithat,|ffaysr:in u&^-;and
through-land, i^f;t]his ipr.ayer, ^ejrtsi. a transforming
influence, .upon [the, created) ,wprld>p| ,spuls and things:
But the vH3.th ; ;an4-(.method ^Pf this deep; ijessential
prayer may; [.vary v Between . the f.saint^s ;
eritlre^sel^
immolation ,fpr thie world's siny iand. that .symbolic
battering ati. the ,:dpp;rs; pf- heaven^ Ihat agony:? of
petition by i^vhich-many .souls, actualize, their, ardent
desire. All the';, apparatus of .-verbal:; intercession,
with its lists an^- litanies and;iBteritioris,;is meant:to
deepen and giye precision. rtp-,that,; dntereessoryj life
which shall grafhiajlyjnclude^in^its ,span allr;
deeds, renunciatipns.and sufferings. ,
of v the soul 'si
is itself a small part; of .that^ejieeniiing
^
li
Spirit purifies nature, andymakes , it Susceptible of
God. Thus the pj^ject^. intercessory -action may
be general or particul^ ^spiritual pj..'physical;:!
i It
may concern the imostrihoniiely-pr/tra:ns,ceiid^ntal
levels of life : the f^u^r4en1;;of;little. hopes or of;'great
ideals. Or it may seek: without ce
184 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
tion to wholeness of life of the diseased or the sinful,
which must always lie within the will of the Creative
Love.
For the prayer of a wide-open and surrendered
human spirit appears to be a major channel for the
free action of that Spirit of God with whom this soul
is 'united in her ground'. Thus it seems certain
that the energy of prayer can and does avail for the
actual modifying of circumstance ; the renewing of
physical health ;
the refraining from sin ; and that
its currents form an important constituent of that
invisible web which moulds and conditions human
life. It may open a channel along which power,
healing or enlightenment go to those who need
them ;
as the watering-can provides the channel
along which, water goes to the thirsty plant. Or the
object achieved may be, as we say,
'
directly
spiritual
'
; the gradual purifying and strengthening,
and final sublimation of the praying soul, or of some
other particular soul. In all such cases, though
much remains mysterious, the connexion between
prayer and result does appear as the connexion of
genuine cause and effect. Living as we do on the
fringe of the great world of Spirit, we lay hold on its
mysterious energies and use them in our prayer.
We are plainly in the presence of that which Elisa-
beth Leseur called- -ifca
high and fruitful form of
action, the more secure that it is secret ', and only
limited by the power and purity of our faith and love.
There is, on the other hand, an intercessory prayer
which seems to have no specified aim. It is poured
ACTION 185
out, an offering of love, in order that it may be used ;
and this is
specially true of its more developed forms
in the interior life of devoted souls. As spiritual
writers say, its energies and sufferings may simply
be
'
given to God ', added to the total sacrificial
action of the Church. It may then do a work which
remains for ever unknown to the praying soul ;
contributing to the good of the whole universe of
spirits, the^conguest of eyil. the promotion of the
Kingdom, the increased energy of holiness. Such
general and sacrificial prayer has always formed
part of the interior life of the saints ; and is an endur-
ing strand in the corporate work of the Church. It
may be done by way of a secret immolation of the
heart, by a routine of ordered petitions, or by the
solemn ritual of vicarious suffering. It may capture
and consecrate all the homely activities of daily life,
and endue them with sacramental power. When
St. Teresa founded the discalced Carmelites, it was
not to promote the culture of individual souls ; but
in order that the corporate hidden prayer and sacri-
fice of these communities might generate power,
combating in some degree the wickedness she saw in
the world. It was of this aspect of prayer that
Cardinal Mercier spoke, when he said in one of his
pastorals,
'
Through an ever closer adherence to the
Holy Spirit in the sanctuary of your soul, you can,
from within your home circle, the heart of your
country, the boundary of your parish, overpass all
earthly frontiers and . . .
intensify and extend the
Kingdom of Love.' As the rhythm of Christ's life
186 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
went to and fro between adoring prayer upon the
mountain and the manifestation of the Divine
redeeming power in the world, so these two move-
ments should form the rhythm of the life of prayer.
For only such a double life can express our double
relation to Spirit ; the entire dependence on that
which is higher than our highest, and the faithful
mediation of that which is nearer than our most
inward part.
It is true that many phrases of the great masters of
prayer, taken alone and out of their context, seem
entirely to exclude this spiritual action of one soul
on other souls, for and in God ;
and make the life of
prayer consist entirely in adoration and adherence.
But this contradiction is only apparent : and is
simply a vigorous statement of the obligation to put
first things first. The adoring surrender of the soul
to God, and even a certain union with the immanent
Holy Spirit, forms the one essential foundation of
.all
intercessory action. For this action depends
primarily, not on the intensity of our sympathetic
interest, our psychic sensitiveness, the sustained
energy and confidence of our demands, or our
telepathic power though all these may contribute
to its effectiveness but on a profound and selfless
devotion to the purposes of the Divine Charity.
Even in the crudest, most naive act of prayer, the
soul lays itself open in some degree to that over-
ruling Divine action ;
and this movement, initiated
by God, is completed and used by Him. Thus the
action of God and the soul collaborate in different
ACTION 187
ways and degrees in every prayer.
'
Feelings ',
'
experiences
'
and all the rest, fade into insignificance
before this most solemn privilege of men.
Here we are surely face to face with one of the
great mysteries of that spiritual world in which our
real lives are lived ; one of the ways in which, as
Newman said, we can already
'
share the life of
saints and angels
'
those ordained distributors of
the love and power of God. We cannot understand
it, but perhaps we grasp its reality better if we keep
in mind two facts. The first is, that all experience
proves that we are not separate, ring-fenced spirits.
We penetrate each other, influence each other for
good and evil, for the giving or taking of vitality,
all the time.
'
Souls, all souls ', said Von Hu'gel,
'
are deeply interconnected. The Church at its best
and deepest is just that that interdependence of all
the broken and meek, all the self-oblivion, all the
reaching out to God and souls. . . .
Nothing is
more real than this interconnection. We can suffer
for one another. No soul is saved alone or by its
own efforts.' This accessibility, and this changeful-
ness, is at once our weakness and our strength. And
this interaction of souls, this mysterious but most
actual communion, depends for its life and reality
on God, Spirit, the immanent creative life, Who
penetrates and indwells us all, working in and with
us. We are all linked in Him. Therefore it is liter-
ally true that the secret pressure of the Eternal is
present in all movements of mutual service and love.
And the second fact is, that the value and reality
i88 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
of our souls is at least as much social as individual.
We do, and must, reinforce each other ; make good
each other's weakness. Each saint has something
to give which adds to the glow of all saints : and
only by self-loss in that one radiance can make his
own life complete. We are woven together, the
bright threads and the dull, to form a living tissue
susceptible of God, informed by His infinite, self-
spending love.
'
We have soon ', says Von Hiigel
again,
'
reached the limit of what we ourselves can
ever become : it is in joy for the others, for the
countless constellations of the spiritual heavens, it
is only there but even there, at bottom, because of
God, the Sustainer and fulfiller of all that splendour
that our poor hearts and wills find their peace.'
Thus, intercession is the activity of a spirit which
is a member of this living society, this fabric of
praying souls penetrated and irradiated by God-
Spirit. For this membership gives to each unit a
special quality, vigour, power ;
a power only given
in order that it may be used and shared. Its essence
is not the activity of the little soul over against
Spirit, but the action of Spirit through and in the
little soul self-given to the Spirit's Will. Here we
reach the real dignity of the creature, and the very
object of the life of prayer : it is able to convey God
because it has become susceptible of God. We see
this again and again in the lives of the Saints. In
the arrogant Sienese scholar, asking the girl Catherine
with an insulting pretence of reverence for her pray-
ers, and brought in two days by their steady pressure
ACTION 189
to an abject and heart-broken penitence. In the
Cur6 d'Ars, drawing to himself and then vanquishing
the malice of invisible powers. In the transforming
action of Christian philanthropists, whose lives are
given to the Spirit's will.
Hence all effective intercession depends on the one
hand on the keeping alive of the soul's susceptibility
to God, its religious sensitiveness, by constant self-
openings towards Him and movements of humble
and adoring love ; and on the other hand, on keeping
keenly alert to the needs of the world; through an
untiring and informed pity and sympathy,
'
a wide
spreading love to all in common '.
Only a charity
poured out in both directions can become and remain
a channel of the Spirit's Will. And such a vocation
in its fullness means much suffering ;
a bearing of
griefs and a carrying of sorrows, an agonized aware-
ness of sadness and sin. For the great intercessor
must possess an extreme sensitiveness to the state
and needs of souls and of the world. As those who
live very close to nature become tuned to her rhythm,
and can discern in solitary moments all the move-
ments of her secret life, or as musicians distinguish
each separate note in a great symphony and yet
receive the music as one whole ; so the intercessor,
whether living in the world or enclosed in a convent
(for these are only differences in technique) is sen-
sitized to every note and cadence in the rich and
intricate music of the common life. He stretches
out over an ever wider area the filaments of love,
and receives and endures in his own person the
igo THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
anguish of its sorrow, its helplessness, its confusions,
and its sin ; suffering again and again the darkness
of Gethsemane and the Cross, as the price of his
redemptive power. For it is his awful privilege to
stand in the gap between the world's infinite need
and the treasuries of the Divine Love.
V
CONCLUSION
AND
thus we come back to a humble and
homely realism. For we are brought to the
recognition that there is indeed a finite
created order, truly existing, of which we form part
and with which we are designed to correspond.
Toward this our human responsibility is absolute.
We cannot escape its influence ; and may not ignore
the appeal of its imperfection to our interest, our
pity, and our 'love. Yet none the less we are in
ceaseless contact with an Increate Order, standing
over against us in its solemn stillness, and by its
energetic Charity penetrating and sustaining our life.
With this too we have deep correspondences. It
moulds and stimulates us, and seeks to transform us.
It is at once the inciting cause and final satisfaction
of our metaphysical thirst. The ceaseless creative
action of that Spirit on spirit, reaching and shaping
us 'in and through circumstance, and turning our very
limitations to the purposes of love this is the effici-
ent cause of our long purification. The mysterious
intercourse between Creator and created is the origin
an4> substance of our prayer.
all that we do and are, whether lofty or
191
i92 THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
homely, has a double significance and a double
reference. It is real in its own right, within the
scheme of nature : for the Father and Lover of our
souls is the Father and Lover of all life. And
beyond this, it mediates the august reality of Super-
nature ;
in so far as we endure in and through it the
ceaseless transforming action of God-Spirit. For all
our life is sacramental. There is no test, no conflict,
no attraction or delight, nor any vicissitude of cir-
cumstance which does not come to us charged with
Spirit ; no point in the chain of succession where the
Eternal cannot be found, served and adored. And
in this double status and the double demand which
it makes on us, abides the tension and the richness
of our mysterious life.
For we are changeful, yet children of the Un-
changing ;
free and yet dependent ; carnal, sold
under sin, and yet perpetually drawn to love and
depend on God. We are asked for an utter self-
abandonment ; and, in proportion to that self-
abandonment, become ever the more vigorous and
creative. The true life of the spirit begins with the
full and glad acceptance of this situation ;
the
deletion of the possessive case.
'
Send out thy light,
and thy truth ', says the Psalmist :
'
all my fountains
are in thee !
'
When we know this, we are at peace.
Veni, Sancte Spiritus,
Et emitte coelitus
Lucis. tuae radium.
That humble invitation, and that acknowledgement
of our human incompleteness, is the beginning of
CONCLUSION 193
the sequence through which the soul's transformation
is accomplished.
Da perenne gaudium
is the end. Come, thou Holy ; pour out in our dim
lives the steadfast radiance of the Living Perfect.
Give the perennial joy of those whose separate action
is lost in the eternal Act of God. Between these
terms lies the whole rounded work of Spirit in and
upon the plastic human soul.
