{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__tweedale___vindication_of_william_hope.pdf","mytitle":"Vindication Of William Hope","mylang":"de"}
·v
THE
VINDICATION
OF
WILLIAM HOPE
O R
THE EXPOSERS EXPOSED
A Lecture delivered in the
Mechanics' Hall, Bradford,
Wednesday, 12th April; 1933,
By
The Rev. CHARLES L. TWEEDALE
VICAR OF WESTON
Thornton & Pearson (Printers).
THE VINDICATION OF WILLIAM HOPE.
In November, 1932, Mr. Fred Barlow and Major Rampling-Rose read a
paper at a private meeting of the Society fo1- Psychical Research in which
they allege that all Mr. William Hope's psychic photographs have been
produced by fr_
audulent means. This allegation against Hope is a falsehood,
and an atrocious calumny. The method of these two detractors of Hope is
simple. They allege in several instances how Mr. Hope might have
frauded, and then proceed to argue that therefore he did fraud. This comes
out all through the paper, and characterizes the report of the Photographic
Research Association, which they quote. Anything more dishonest, illogical,
un-English, or unjust, could not be conceived, and so far from their paper
containing " definite proof of fraud," as they a llege, it contains no proof of
fraud whatsoever, but merely shows lack of knowledge and of symp.athetic
understanding in a difficult investigation.
Before dealing with the accusations against Hope we will consider one
or two subsidiary points and the charge made against Mrs. Deane.
Those who allege that she has frauded may well be asked. to face the
testimony of Sir Arthur Keith, the anthropologist, also of DL
Cushman, who secretly and unknown to anyone 111 England,
came from the U.S.A. He went to i\frs. Deane without appointment or
introduction and found her in the act of leaving, but persuaded he1- to stay
and take his photograph, which she did there and then, and the doctor
immediately obtained .a psychic photo of his dead daughter, Agnes, ·unlike
in detail to any other, but more realistic and a betler Likeness them any other
obtained in life 1! The accusers make no attempt to deal with this case.
lt is a hot cinder which they make no attempt to handle. Barlow says that one
clearly recognised extra is sufficient to prove Psychic Photography. vVell,
here is one and there are hundred of others. Again Barlow alleges that i\Irs.
Deane's psychic extras are the fraudulent result of her having the plates in
her possession before the experiment.
Now, it fortunately happens that Jong before Barlow turned against the
people whose good name he is now seeking to destroy, he had written a
defence of them and of the subject of Psychic Photography. T his defence is
in the form of a chapter entitled " Evidential and Scientific Aspects of
Psychic Photography," and forms part of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's " The
Case for Spirit Photography," which should be read by everyone interested
in this subject. ln this ch.apter Barlow says :-" On several occasions
members of the S.S.S.P. (of which Society Mr. Barlow was secretary) have,
without Mrs. Deane's knowledge, substituted a fresh unopened packet of
plates for the packet she has had with her, without interfering with the
success of the experiment! !" This convincingly proves that the previous
possession of the plates was not the explanation as he alleges.
On another occasion Mr. Barlow obtained, through Mrs. Deane, a
1-·vchic photograph of his father. He wrote to me describing his experience
a~'- ?.taring that he was thoroughly satisfied tha t it was his father, and in
his '""'vidential and Scientific Aspects " he says : " With Mrs. Deane, in
my_ owr. name, we secured an excellent picture of my father-a likeness
which cou,, not have been produced from any existing photograph....
Whatever .m_c., have h_
appened on other occasions nothing can shake 1ny
firm conviction 'hat I have secured genuine psychic photographic effects."
In the face 01 these declarations what reliance can be placed now on
Mr. Barlow's preser" attacl{ on Mrs. Deane and his statement that all
re~ognis~d pictures cou111. be copied from existing photos.
. Agam, he says that Vv}ien using a stereoscopic camera or two camei·as
simultaneously, extras or psychic effects are not obtained on more than
3
one pl ate, and th is, he says, shows th::il the 1·esults arc no t ol jcctive. Thi~
~t<'ltement is f:,I. P and not i11 :1ccorda1we \\·ith rccordrcl l:wt~.
Mr. Trail T nvlor, the well-known photographic <'XJll'rt. n ·lates in the
British Journ al o( Photography for March 17th, 1893 (of which he was the
Edi tor), how h got psychic cxtrns on both plates in his ste1
·eoscopic camera,
with ML David Duguid. While on November 5th, 1921, at the British
C'olle¢e of Psychic ~ci ence, Mr. R obinson, of Brisbane, exposed a plate in
his own camera, a nd Mr. H ope another in his camera at the same time,
psychic extras comin g on each. J\nother case of psychic extras being found
on both plates of a stereoscopi c camcr:t was reported in thr Transactions of
the Briti. h Coll ege for April, 1923.
Tn the occasional occurrence of reproductions of magazine and newspaper
pictures on Mrs. Deane's plates, 01· of " screen" effects, Barlow and R ampling-
Rose prnfess to find conclusive eYidence of fraud, but even if it did constitute
such evidence, it 1voulcl not do away with the C ushman case of recognition,
together with m<iny others. Anyone who has the intell igence and ability to
tackle th is prnblem kn ows full well that the occasional appearance of such
magazine pictures is 110 frroof at a,ll that the psychic has frauclecl. Eixactly
the same 1·emai·k appli es in those cases in which the extra is lik e a normal
photograph of the deceasrd. \Ve will refute Bario\\' on this point out of his
O\\'n mouth. fn hi s ari-ir lP on " The Evidential and Scientiric Aspects of
Phychic Photography,'' publishl'd in 1922, hf' says :- " Ont! of the
nw rnbers of the S.S.S.P. (of which ~·ociety \tr. Barlow was
Secretary) :.\Ir. Hobbs, of Purley, a keen business man, lraYclled to .Crewe
with his wife. They and the Crewe Circle we1
·e perfect strangers to each
other. Mrs. H obbs w:.is wr-arin g a locket containing a photograph of thei1·
son, who had been killed in the waL This was tucked away out of sight
undc1· her blouse. To their g1·cat del ight they obtain('d a pictw·c of their boy.
T1·il'kery \\'as impossilile. E1·e11 supposing M1·. H ope h ad seen the lock et
there \V[IS no time to produce a fraudulent rrsult and [oisl it upon the alert
sitter ~ . Y<'t the psychic picllll'C is an ('X:1Ct dupJicatr of lhe photograph in
the locket. Even the i-im of the locket can be . een. This sort of thing has
occurred time and again. "
" Sometimes the psychic pirturrs are ja.c simile copies of magazine
covers ·which 110 fra.i1d11le11t 111ediu111. would ever thin!? of producing."
.. Whether it agrees with his pet t heories or not the serious student i.
bound to realize that sooner or later other minds are at wod' distinct from,
and often superior in intelligenl'e to, that of either medium 01
· sitter. Those
intelli gences claim to be Lhc spirits of the so-called dead. T hey substantiate
the ehims bv gi1·in g p1
·actic-:tl prnof tha t they an; ll'hom they purport to be."
From ihr :1bo1·r quot:ttion~ it ll'ill be seen ho11· strongly Mr. Barlow
repucli atl's :iny suggestion of frnud on the part of Mrs. Deane (such as he
has no1
': mndel in the matter nf the ocrasiona l uccuncnce of these magazine
pinu rPs and " ~c reen " cffPcts. :\ s I have pointed out elsewhere, these results
sim ph· sholl' (l ikr thl· appr:1ram·c• of Auwers and other objects) that the spirit
uper:itor,; can copy object::>, just as 11·e can and, like us, are not restricted to
nnc particul ar phase of photography. At the same tim e, it must be noted
thnt m:in y o f the psychic extras, wh ile clearly recogn isable, are slightly
cliff rnnt in pose to any known normal photo, prOl·ing conclusil'ely that they
:in: nut rnpies.
Coming no\\' l o Lh1· main issue in Barlow's nnd R ampling-Rose 's
pu1nphlN. "The Attack on Ylilliam Hope." In the fir;;t place. Barlow alleges
thm subs tit ut ion of n platL· \\'as found against Hope during the experime11ts of
Price nnd the S.P .R. in 1922. This statement i a falsehood, <incl one tancls
nmazed at the. effn.in tc1·y of this charge in view of the facts . No proof of
fraud or substitution on the part of Hope was found, but it was proved that
gra1·e suspicion attached to those who made the charge.
4
It was shown during lhe in vestigalion that the pa ket of plates used by
the -experimenters had been in the possession of the officials of the S.P.R.
for three weeks before the experiment, a nd was accessible to several persons
who were hostile to Hope' claims and had said that the opening and closing
of sealed packets was a thing easily accomplished. It was a lso conclusively
proved by an independent committee of investigation that the packet of
plates had been opened prior to the experiment with Mr. Hope, as proved
by the exami nation of the wrapper made by the I111pc1
·iril Dry Plate Co.
(Ilfo1·d). This fact rit once destroys Price's case. Ii was also revealed that
one of the specia lly marked plates had been extracted, as proved by the fact
that this plate, together with three others of a diffrrcnL ma ke, and bearing
extras when developed, totally unlike H ope's results, were mysteriously
returned through the London post (Notting Hill postm ark) three days after
the experiment, and four months before the attack wa:;; m ade known to
Hope. Price has also confessed that when Hope requested him to sign the
plates in proof that neither plates nor slide lrnd been substituted 01· changed,
he refused. These facts smash Price's case and trnnsform Hope from the
accused into the accuser, and point to a con:;;piracy aga inst Hope which
casts a grave suspicion upon all concerned in making the experiment and
issuing the libellnus pamphlet against him, and show him to hm·e been
a much injured and maligned man, and the subj ect of ;1 base conspiracy ; and
that the plates, so far from being substituted by H ope, had been tampered
with, and others substituted by the con:pirntors. This is a matter of
history and the facts are on record, and yet Barlow has the effrontery to
say in the S.P. R. pamphlet just issued that Price proved that Hope substituted
a plate on this occasion. The statement is a falsehood and the facts point
to the very reverse. With reference to the extra obtained on the plate by
Mr. Price, Barlow says in " E videntia l and Scienti°fic Aspects," " I am
convinced that the effect obtained on this occasion w<-ls a gen ui ne psychic
result. Price maintains that no genuine psychic photograph has eve1
· been
taken. Yet, on December 13th. 1923, and February 28th, 1924,
Price, using his own camera, slides and plates in a test of psychic photc-
graphy, held with Mrs. Irvine, the plates never lem·ing his pos:;essir•n, as he
testified, obtained the picture of a hand , also star-shaped patches or cloud
on the plate, when developed by him, the said hand and star havi•1 g
previously been seen clairvoyantly and described by Mrs. Irvin e. H e
signed tw.o statements testifying to the -e facts.
Now let us turn to the considered opinion of Barlow in farnur of psychic
photography, set forth in " The E vidential and Scientific Aspects," published
in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's " Case for Spirit Photography. H e there says :
" When conditions are imposed similar to those usually obtaining with the
Crewe Circle (Hope) the difficulty of producing a rraudulent result is
enormously increased. Whei-e suitable precaution s arP c-mployed, '1ncl where
the sitter has a thorough knowledge of photography, plus a n acquaintance
with trick methods, even the possibility of deception without d tection can
for all practical purposes be ruled out of court. U nder these special con diti on~
investigators of repute have on many occasions secured __successful results."
Again, " The evidence for the truth of psychic photography is
overwhelming."
Again, " Knowing it to be ~rue, I lc~ok forward with confidence to that
day, not far distant, when all this talk of fake _and fraud shall be no more. "
Again " I do not see how we can possibly get away from the fact
that many of these photographic effects are produced by di scarnate
intelligences."
A.gain, " A very little first-hand i_nvestigation will satisfy any unp1·ejudiced
individual as to the reality of psychic photography."
1
,•
•
Equally damning to hi present attitude is Barlow's article in " Light ''
iur November 9Lh, 1918 in which he says : "f\n apology is due to the Crewe
f1·iends fo1
· the ,·ery suggestion of fraud, so far as they are concern.ed. To
know Lhem is to esteem them," " l decl are a fter mature consideration that
in many of Lhe tesls trickl't'Y was impossible.''
Here are seven mosl positive declarations on Barlow's part, as to the truth
and reality of psychic photography, and I shall produce others.
We will now examine the specific chargi;:s o[ Messrs. Barlow and·
Rampling-Rose. The main one is that all Hope's psychic extras have been
produced, either by the substitution of a prepared plate with the spirit form
or " extra " already printed on it, or by the projection of the '' extra " on
to the plate by means of a Oash-ligl1t projector, contain ing a small positive
film so as to print a negative 011 lhe plate.
Let us la ke the flashlight allegation fi1·st. This charge is at once so silly
that one wonders how· any man of intelligence dare bring it forward in the
Hope case. 1t cu,·crs the accusers with ridicule. 1 have personally loaded
Hope's slides with scores of plates from new packets broken open by me
in the dark room immed iately before loading the slide. Hope was not
even allowed to Louch Lhe pl ales, or to put his hands over them ; and I have
a lso taken the precaution o[ examining Hope's hands on many occasions. He
has never used such a projector or " switch " in all the scores of plates I
have loaded into his slides. He could not have even attempted to do it
without instltl1t detection by me or by others in the dark room.
I am an old photographer and mechanician whose experience goes back
to the \Yet plate days, and not to be taken in by any such childish device
as Barlow and Rampling-Rose describe. l know many people who have
loaded H ope's slides, some of them expert photographers and they likewise
have never seen Hope use any such device, and they scoff at the suggestion
of such use under thei1· keen and critical gaze. The sillin ess of this flashlight
projector theory as the explanation of H ope's results becomes still more
apparent when 1 slate that l ha,·c frequen tly loaded Hope's slides when
a/011 e in the dark room from my uwn new packet of plates, not allowing
Hope to enter, and these s lides l have myself ca·nied /:o and f'rom the camera,
not al lowing Hopi.: to touch them. In some cases I have, in addition to this,
and to a thorough inspection of camera, slide and lens, inserf.ed the s/.ide in
/:he ca.mera ·111yself and withdrawn it, 1-f ope doing nothing but malie the
exposure, thus not, allowing 11 ope to touch either plate or slide from loading
to development, and yet l have got evidential 1·esults in flat disproof of
Barlow's statement that. there is always some kind of control by the medium.
Other experimenters, among whom is Dr. Eliis Powell, give similar testimony.
Powell describes in S.S.S.P. Budget, No. 63, how he loaded the slides, carried
the slides, and did all the photographic process, and yet got the picture of a
girl, Ol ive R--, recognised by her brother and mother.
ln the 58th Budget of the Society Barlow says : "I have got results with
Hope here in my v,,·11 house, under condi tions where fraud was absolutely
impossible. l have loaded my dark slides in Binningharn and taken them
lo Cre,,·t· ,,·ith my o\\·n camera and a pparntus, ;incl have carried out the whole
vperation myself, c\·en Lo the taking or the photograph , and ha,·e secured
supernormal results."
Fillecn lll l·mlw r~ uf the S.S.S.l'. ,,ig11 an accoun L in Budget 67 saying
that Hope did 110t tuucli th e pl;:itt' until it was fi xed , yet they got results.
1
\ s [u,. L
lic ;dicg;1li<in that the Oashlight is used in Hope's coat pocket,
Barlow himself records in the S . S.~.P. Budget No. 86, that 011 one occasion
in his presence Hope turned out his pocket before putting the slide into it,
and Barlow signed this report, whil e in hi s article in " Light " he says: " I
know of no means whereby he could possibly ha,·e printed an image on the
plate while.; Lhe slide "·as i11 his puckeL, "·iL110ut being imnHcdiately detected."
6
As for the further allegation that this flashlight is used during the loading
of the plates, or what is still. more silly and impossible, during their exposure
in the camera, made generally in full dayli<fbt and often with hal[ a dozen
people standing around him- it is an insult t o the intelligence of his readers
to suggest such nonsense. 'vVe are asked to believe that Hope, in broad
daylight, with people standing around him and all eyes closely fixed upon
him, could open the shutter of a slide under the focussing cloth and pl"int an
" extr.a " on with a flashlight without bei11g detected, and that he could
do this not once but thousands of times during the course of 27 years and
never be caught in the act once. Could absurdity furthe1· go?
Let us no\v see what Mr. Barlow him selJ says about this suggestion in
" Evidential and Scientific Aspects " :- " I bm·c been told that Hope printed
tho effects on to the plates by a flashlight while he had hold of my wrist.
lf the critic derives any comfurt from believing that uch actually occurred
· he is welcome to his belief." ·
He plainly sees the absw·dity of the charge he now makes.
With regard to the charge of substitution of plates, This is equally false,
unproven and absurd. I have shown that on a former occasion of such a
charge being made, it was proved tl1at tl1e onus of suspicion lay on the
ex.perimen ters and not on Hope.
Let us see what Barlow hlmself has to say against this matter of
substitution, in " Evidential and Scientific Aspects " :- " On this occ.asion
the substitution of dark slides was impossible for the simple reason that no
dark slide was us(;!d. Saying nothing to the members of lhe Crewe Circle
beforehand, 1 took with me to Crewe, on November 12th, 1921, a loaded box.-
camera containing 6 marked plates. All that Hope and 1
\'1rs. Bux.ton did was
to arch their hands over this magazine camera whilst one of lhem flicked the
shutter catch. Photographic readers will realize that it is impossible to
tamper with tlie plates in a box-camera in daylight withou t spoiling the
lot. Th<;! control stipulated tha t Hope should be allowed to hold my right
wrist as I dropped each plate into the developer. Psychic effects were
obtained on two out of the six pla tes under conditions which 1 am con vinced
rendered d(;!ception impossible."
Again, he says: " Two photographic members of the S.S.S.P. and myself
went to Crewe. The camera and slides were brand new and not examined
by Hope before the sitting. Neither Hope nor Mrs. Bux.ton were in the
drn·k-room for loading the slides or developing the plates. ]11e central face of
the three supernorm.al faces secured 011 this occasion is a n undoubted likeness
u[ the father of one of tb e sitters. This result was absolutely conclusive to
my friends and myself. We emphatically declare that under the circumstances
trickery was Impossible.''
These quotations refule Badow out of hi s uw11 mouth. ln further
testimony let me say that 1 personally knew a Bradford minister who, ~
ta king his own box-camer.a, which \Vas ne1u· opened, went lo Crewe and I
obtained the face of a deceased rela tive. Hope did nothing but release the
catch of the shutter, and the resulting photograph was developed at the
minister's home in Bradford.
There are many cases on reco1·d of the obtaining of these extras in box-
camcras through Hope's mediumship, the said cameras ne1·ei- having bcei1
opened and Hope never having seen or touched the plates. I persona lly
witnessed one of these in 1931, when a lady asked 1:-J pc to touch off tlle
trigger of her box.-camera, 1vhich she produced on the spur of the moment.
He made two exposures an_
d the plat<;!S were dev~loped at a local chemist's,
and two extras were obrarned. I can also give my own box-camera
experience. In 1915 my wife sudden!~ saw the apparition of a man
clairvoyantly, while we were seated in the breakfast room at Weston
Vicarage. 1 rushed for my box-camera and took a photo of the place where
I
I
l
7
she saw the figure, and obtained a clear photo of the man looki11g exactly
a~ she previously described him. This case is my own and entirely independent
of Hope, \\·hom 1 did not then know. We a ll swore to the truth of this
before a Commissioner for Oaths in clul' legal form.
There a1·e scores of similar i11 stancl's which show the utter a bsurdity
and impossibility of Lhe theory of plate :;ubstitutinn or flash-light effects as
the expl<~n ation of Vv'illiam Hope 's spirit pictures.
The foregoing refutations of the fiashlight and plate substitution
theories are sufficient to satisfy any reasonable man, but there is another
consideration which finally blows them to atoms .
Flashlight projection of recognised face;-;, 01
· plate> substituted and bearing
,,uch recognised Iaces (and Lhere are many hundreds of recognitions on
record) means the previous preparation ol a sma ll positive and its insertion
in the flash-lamp, or th1.; careful preparation of the plate lo be substituted.
in the very many hundn::ds of 1·ecognised sµirit pictw·es produced through
Hope's medium.ship, how could these pictures lie produced in the many
hundreds of cases in which H ope /1acj 11 ever see11 or heard of the deceased!'
Such prncuring is impossible. H ow could this smal l positive be made and
inserted in the flash-lamp 01· switch, or the prepared plate b~ produced to
meet the cases of recognised pictures obtained for strnngers introduced to
Hope at a few minutes notice·,- Huw could the sma ll flashlight positive or
prepared plate be prepared or produced in the many cases of recognised
extras, of which l ha\·e many example,, in which there n.eve11 has bee1L any
photo, painting, or slietch made of !li e deceased du.ri·11g m ortal life'! The
thing is impossible, and no one· whose judgment is o[ a11y value would
seriously advance such an al legation .
\,Ye now come to recognition of the extras, or spirit for ms un the plate--
this is of vitai importance . Le[ us quote Barlow's statement in his
" Evide ntia l and Scientific Asµecb. ., He there s_
ay.; : " Apart from any
question of test conditions there are certain results which in themselves afford
definite proof of genuineness. l refer to the recognised likenesses obtained
by sitters who are unknown tu the medium, and whu have secured results
which could not possibly huve been prepared in. advance. One such case
would be su.fficent to establish the reality of psychic p!wtogva.phy. It is no
exaggeration to say that th is has actually been done un scores uf occasions,
and in consequence the evidence for tl1e tru.th of ps)1c hic fJh.otogra.phy is
overwhelming. This question of recognised likenes,,es is a point which the
critic tries to evade. The reader can judge of th~ value of this evidence from
tho illustrations in this book, which are typical of lw11dreJ,s of sirnila1· results. •·
Nute how sb-01Jgly he supports and says thal one recognition would be
,,,uflicient lo pro\·e the case. No\\' he says lhat these likenesse,,, are copied
or prepared from photographs a lready in existence, or could have been su
prepared or copied, and asks us Lu beli1.;\·e on this flil!1sy as.;umpiion that
H ope was a fraud. Those who have studied the subj ect carefully and
thoroughly know it to be 110 evidence or fraud at all. Rampling-Rose, in
:.t letter to the Press, makes lhc absurd staleme11t thal " Not the slightest
scientifi c value can b~ placed u1
1 the claim that Hupe produced hundreds of
rocog ni s~d pictures." Science is 1
10t 11eedL:d fur Lhc ordinary n~co g niti on u.f
relati\·1.;s ~llld friends. Nothing more is rl'quired lha11 ordiriary common sense
and honesty such as is used i11 daily lire. Ma1
1y bundr1.;ds or peop le cannot
all be mistaken.
Both wish to delude us with the absurd nonsense that Hope h as been
able to get the photos of many hundreds or people whom he neve1· saw ·or
heard of (many of whom li\"ed a ll their li\'eS in distant foreign countries)
and often at a few minutes notice. All sensible and honest men know this
8
to be impossible, and Barlow him:.elf s:.iys that lhe 1·ecognised picture of his
fath er could not have been so prepared. \Ve· nu\,. come to psychic photograph ~
showing messages in the hand-\\Titing or deceased per. ons, ;ind Bnrlow's
~tateme11t that these messages are lhe f1«1udulent work or !·lope. This
statement is also false.
To re!Pr again to Barlow's own \\'Ord:.. In " Evidential .:tnd Scientific
Aspects," he says :-" There can be no doubt about the genui11eness of the
handw1·iting." He then shows Major Spenc!=r's photo-microscopic en large-
ment of th normal and psychic signatures of Archdeacon Colle)', and shows
them to be microscopically iden tical. On this head his charge ugainst Hop~'
that the messages are composed of cu l-oul pieces of letters surrounded by
cotton wool is not proven. H e himsclr fakes a result _
along these lines Lhe11
coolly asks his 1·eaders to belieYe thal Ilope's results are also faked. This
" suggestio jalsi" marks the whole or the papt·r. The result " 111ight "
lie done in such and such a way, tlwy ·· co11/d " ha,·e been done in
such and such _
a way, therefore they have been done i11 that " ·ay. This
sort of thing is very convenient, but will dccei1·e no one whose opinion is of
any con. equence.
On October 29Lh, 1932, we got a written message from Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle through Hope. The message takes up the conYer:;ation (casually
introduced by my wife) a few minut-<.:s prior to the photogrnph being taken,
making Barlow's theory of Ll10 previous preparation ol a " past<.: and
scissors " letter impossible anu ab urd. Th e psychic message is in Sir
Arthut"s identical handwriting and bears his identical signature, both
recognised by Lady Doyle, who says, " There is no doubt whatever aboul
it being my husband's own wl"iting on the plate."
The plate was loaded from a ne\\· box just pu1·cha!>cd, and Op!'ned by
me immediately before loading and duly signed, the slide can-ied by me to
the camera and back to th<; darkroom , where l de1·eioped it in the p1·cscnce
of Hope and my daughter. H e was ne1·er allowed lo touch u1· put his hand!>
o,·er the plat-e until Jixed. It does not show paste and scisso1·s l'ffect such
a~ Barlow describes. All Barlow's absurd theories fail to explain away this
expei-ience. Again he makes the al legation th.at some of Hope's psychographs
which he has seen, contain errors in spelling similar to Hope's, and lhal all
the " copper-plate " psychographs _arc faked by Hope. All the psychographs
which I haYe clo not contain errors of spelling, and comparison or Hope's
own handwriting in numerous letters show total dissimilarity to the copper-
plate psychographs. If Barlow's psychographs do show these errors of
spellin g this does not pro,·e fraud on H ope's part. Let him remember what
lw says in " £,·idential and Scientific Aspects '' :-" Occasionally in these
p:,ychographs the mentality of the m edium or sitter will get in the way,
with very curious results. Throughout all the e phenomena, however, there
is e,·ery indication that othe1· influences are at work. These influences claim
to be discarnale souls."
\Ve now retun1 to the Yitai pui11L or Recognition. This is the r-eal L
esl
or genu ineness of 1
-Iope's medium ship and Lhe reality of psychic photography.
Bado"· saw this long ago, and lw s_
ays in " £,·iclcntial and Scienlifi.:
A,,pecls " :- " One such casl· would be sufficiL·nl lo establish the rea lity ur·
psychic phut.ography. This has occurred 011 scores ur occasions," and guc~
nn l" s;1y thal i[ objectors saw Lhc c1·icll·11ces or lhis 1
·1.:cugnitio11 whid1 lla\"f·
bet•11 sent lo him, " th<.: must ha rde11cd sceptic would be com·inced of the
reality of psychic photography by this evidence alone." Now h has the
hardihood to a llege that the percentage or certainly recognised " extras "
is only small, " perhaps one in a thou ·and. " This statement is o utterly
false and unlruc as lo be farc ical, allll is in Oat contradiction lo his formcr
I
•
•
,
9
statement and to the testimony of many hundreds or siL1 c1·8. havP
personally seen several recognitions obtained in one aft.e·rnoou some ol
people who lived and died abroad-under conditions maki11g a ll fraud, decep-
tion or mistake impossible. I ha,·e seen events foreshadowed on the photo
plates which duly came to pass. It is no exaggeration to say that many
hundreds of such recognised " extras "- photos of the departed dead--have
been obtained through William H ope's psychic powers, the sitters coming
from every quarter of the globe.
vVe now turn to Barlow's charge that substitutio11 or a plate is proved
by the appearance of "the double margin" or " double rebate " seen on a
few of .Hope's negatives. H e alleges that this is proof pos1t1vc th at Hope
substi tuted plates. This is anothe1· falsehood, and thi s chaq:(P is not proven
by him or his colleague.
Now, with refei-ence to the instances o[ this double margin, let me first
rema1·k that they are fevJ in number. and in any case do not touch the
hund·reds of cases of recognised extrcis obtained on plates w hich do not
show any tra.ce of double margin. This double mai·gin in some cases is
seen all round the plate when one imagl' or tlw rebate has been displaced
both vertically and horizontally with reference to the othe1· image of the
rebate. Thi gives a narrow double line all round, rhe lines . of the two
images intei-locking. Jn the second class of case~ the doubling occi.irs only
at the top a nd bottom of the plate, the lin es down each sidt• being singl r' .
H ere the displacement has only been vertical.
I have just exam ined 22 negatives bearing rerngniscd ex tras taken in
my vicarage by Willi am Hope, not one or which ~ h ows n11y trace of this
double margin.
In his "Eviden tial and Scientific Aspects," speaking of thi s doubk
margin, which has sometimes been cal led " the psychic transparency," he
bears this testimony :-" These particular markin gs ca n be seen ove1· Lhe
nega tive obtained by Mr. Harry Pi-ice. I am c01wincC'd that the effect
obtain ed on that occasion bas a genuine psychic result. The possibility of
this is freely admitted by Mr. Price."
That the effects on thesC' occasional " double margin " negatives are
gen uine psychic results and not the result of any fraud on Hope's pa1
·t.
1 am certain, from my own experience, and th is f will no,,· proce· d to show.
Jn the first place, I havP two of the long ,·eil nega ti,·es, which Barlow
a lleges a ll show double margins, one showin g a recogni sed rxti·a of whom it
was i111possible for Hope to have any knowledge \\"hatsoe,·cr, in which the
,·eil extends in a definite 11a-r·row strea111 , from the mass or ectoplasmic lig ht
around the face of the extra situa ted above my hE'acl. clo"·n to a point exactly
o\·er my heart and there stops clearly and defin itely, as though it \\·ere issuing
from my heai·t. It would be impossible at a l"ew minutrs ' notice to make and
arrange a faked transparency or a prepared plate, 011 Lwu occasiuns at Jong
in tervals, so that the end of the thin veil stream should issm' t'xacLiy from my
heart. On one occasion there was a group of five sitters mov ing abom up to
the last moment, which makes matte1·s in finitely mori;> dil"
lir ult for the faker
and more impossible of accomplishment.
Secondly, I have a set of three negati\·es lnkc11 immediately unc a fter
the other, showing the same recogn ised extra on each plate. On the first
plate the face is much larger than on the other t\\"o, and lookin g to the
right, and a long thin band of ectoplasm comes do\\"n to my heart. On the
second plate the face is much smnlle1· and look s tu thC' left. On the third
plate the extra is in a diffei·ent position and again looking in a different
direction-this time it is joined by the spirit form of his fianceeJ., both
]0
recognised. Now, the first platr shows thr double mm·gin :it the nds (top
:'U1d bottom), and 1101 ::tt lhc sitlcs. but the ~r\011d , t::tkP11 n few seconds
afterwards as quickly as the slidf' ruuld lie rewrwd, and LIH' third taken a
few minutes after that, shows not a t1·acc of double margi11 , but does show
the same m a n joined by his fiancce, both as they were 70 y~ors before, a nd
of whom Hope could by no possibility h ave any kn owledge " ·hatsoevei-. If
a prepared plnte a nd double m a rgin was needed for th e first pictu1·e of the
m an , h ow is it that one was not used for the second, a nd for the third
picture when he was joined by hi s fi a nc(·e, w ho, according to B;oirl ow '~
theory sh ould have been honou1·ed by a n extra fin e specially prnpared double
margined substituted plate. These three negatives blow all Barlow's silly
substitution theories sky-high, a nd s how that genuin e psychic picttu-es ca11
be got on a double margin negative. Now these accuse1
·s of \Villiam Hope
a llege that he m ade no attempt to rt· fute thei1· :iccusatio11s. The cha1·ge was
not publicly mRde against him until his body lay in the g ra\'e, but when at
my Vicarage in October, fou r months before his d ath , he bitterly and
indign antly denied these charges, but as Louching the " double ma1·gin " he
could only vehemently deny the accusation that it was the resul t of fraud
on his part. He could not explC1in it, for the very good reason that he did
not him self know how it was producC'd, 01
· what caused it. When th is base
ch arge of fraud was m ade against an honest and wonderful man, as this
phenom enon of the " double margin " was the most important item in the
charge, I determined to il1\·cstigate it. l found it to be a very pretty
problem, but one which negati\'es tClken at my ,·icarage by Mi-. Hope,
combined w ith much careful experimentation, have at last enabled m e to
solve in a manner w hich proves beyond a sh:1dow of doubt that they :u-e
true psychic effects and no/. the resul L of fraud .
In the first place, as the 1·esult of a careful magnification mid examination
of ,-ery m any of Hope's nPgati,·es, I find that in the majori ty of cases tlw
psychic extra 01· imag<' obtained, \\'hen tlwr<' is also a s itter, is in front of
the sittPY, a nd in mm1y cases is thcrdorL· .rn pe;rim posed upon !he image of
tli e sitte·r. This [act at oncf' in these cases disposes of the previously prepared
plate a nd the alleged substitution of the SC\me.
Proceeding, it is well known thM psychic extras can at times bc obtained
without the aid o[ a lens or came1
·a, by holding the slide in the hands, or
pressed to the forehead. l have t\\·o s urh negati\'eS, one obtained by being
held against my "-ife's forehead by Hope. The oth er held between her
ha nds, backed by my hands, m,· daughter'~, and finally Fl ape's hRnds outside.
In t h e first cas<' I loaded and signed th0 plate alo11e in the darkroom
and carried it into my dining room l\'herC', in brnad dayl ight Clnd undC'r our
critical gaze, H ope Rpplied tlw slid<' lo nw wife's forehracl 1'01· about ha lf a
minute. Thrn he. hRndC'cl the ~ li d e tn m<•. nncl l took it and de,·pJoped it,
H ore not Icing prL·~cnt du1·i11g load ing or de,·cloping. This pl~tl<' h:is :1
psychograph on it: :ind s hnws :1 siug/,. im:1g1· ol' the rebaLP.
Agai11, CJll SpptP111ber 3rd, 1931, I and my w if'e loaded the slide, slw
sign ing llw plall'. H ope did not r•11tc1
· 1
·hp d:1rk rnom, or carr v tlw slick.
In my dining ri1om \\'(• held th•· slide· bf·t\\'ecn my \\·ifr·'s hands; bncked by
my hands, my dnughLC'r's, :incl !lnallv I lope\ hand ~ nut·sidP the lot. On
de\'eJoping this platr• fll)'S<"Jf in prt'SPllC:l· uf ! i11pc• :1nd my daughter, l lupi·
not being alluw<:d tu tuuc/1 tlu· j1/a/1· ur slide, lilt' \\'Orcls, " Prl'$S 0 11 , we lu\·1•
you, " in the bold large \\Titing tJf ''"'.Spi ri t C'ummun ic:unr, S- - . appea1
·ed
::icross the pl:1tt'. 1
-li s actual 1\riti11g !lupc hod 11c11cr sre11. Thi ~ negatiw·
sho\\'s th•· clP::u- siu.~·/1' 1·rb!ltf'.
. _
•
\ nother, olitained 011 .\ugust 3rd, 1930,· pla t<· loaded hy myself and signed,
H ope not Rllowed to touch it, either in loadin g 01· de\'cloping, bears the
f
11
words, " My Song," in the writing of our Spirit Communicator, S--,
which Hope had nevei- seen and of whom he had never heard. On this
occasion we all sat round the table with the plate placed in the centre. After
a little \While all saw a zig-zag flash of fire descend from the ceiling and
s ti·ike the slide. On developing the plate, which was done by me, t he words
a ppeared across it. The 1·emarkable and evidential thing about this, which
makes aJlY theory of fraud on Hope's part untenable, is the fact that our
Spirit Communicato1·, S--, had been dictating a song in Italian to my wife
a nd daughter for several weeks previous, a ve1·se each week. This fact was
entirely private, and it was impossibl.e that Hope should have any lmow ledge
of it. In addition to this, H ope had never seen S--'s actual writing.
T his negative bears a clear sing le edge, like the other two.
The slide in each case was not placed in the camera, nor was the plate
exposed at a ll. These three cases are similar to the many on record \Vhich
have been obtained by holding the slide between the bands, or upon the
cent1·e plates of sealed unopened packets held in the hands.
Sir A1·thur .Conan Doyle relates a ve1·y striking instance of this k ind
-0£ result obtained on a pla te held between the hands and through H ope's
mediumship, which showed a brooch belonging to his sister, with her portrait
in the centre, or which H ope could have no possible knowledge.
It is thus clearly established, both by my own experience and that of
other observers that extras and psychic effects can be obtained on virg in
plates which have never been normally exposed. l have also shown that the
double m argin effect may, and does, m anifest itself entirely independently
of the possibility of any fraud 01· deception on Hope's pai·t.- \,\/hat, therefore,
is the explanation of this phenomenon ? In order to carry this investiga tion
further I obtained a quar ter plate Lancastei- lnstan tograph camera exactly
:;imilar in size _
and construction to the ~-plate Lancaster lnstantograph used
by W illiam Hope for the last 27 years, and l commenced a series of experi-
ments with a vie>
v to solving the mystery. I found that these small quarter-
plate slides when loaded with glass plates of a suitable thickness (plates _and
divisional cards vai·y in thickness) on some occasions the slides gripped the
plates just enough to prevent them moving about inside the slide as the
result of ordinary can-ying from dark room to camera, but on the slide being
placed vertically in the camera and given a slight jerk or shock, such as is
caused by closing the shutte1· of the slide with a jerk, the carefully marked
plate would in some cases drop vertically neai·ly 1/16 inch, in other cases
not only drop vertically, but start aside ho1·izontally to nearly the same extent.
This fact, which I have proved and tested many times by actual experi-
men t, at once gave the clue to the myste1·y. W hat happens is this :- The
exposure being made on the sitters impresses the image of the sitters and
-one image of the rebate upon the plate. Now sometimes the image of the
.extra is imp1·essed after the shutter has been closed, thus giving another and
second image of the reb_ate. (That this can happen and an imao-e be im-
pr~ss~d in ~ closed slide is pr~ved by the cases. cited) When this h~ppens to
co111c1de with those comparatively rare cases 111 which the plates have been
gripped slightly in the slide and so held up, the closing of the shutter with a
jerk l:as c~used the ~late to drop vertic.ally, _
or to start aside horizontally in
the slide. The result is that the 1mpress1on of the extra causes another imao-e
of the reb~te ei~her a~ the ends if the m.ovement has been vertical only, or ~t
ends and sides 1f vertica l _and horizontal, and thus a double margin is formed.
In the great majority of cases, however, no trace of double mar o-in is
to be seen , the image of the rebate being single, cleat·, and distinct all ~ound
the plate, the images of sitter and extra being formed in 'immediate
succession.
12
In these cases (the vast majority) the plate has simply lain normally in
the slide after being inserted in the camera and has not moved when the
images of either extra or sitter were imprinted. The imprinting of the extra
would seem in. the majority of cases to be made towards j:l1e end of the
exposure (or in double margin cases, before the slide is w ithdrawn from the
camera), as is it frequently superimposed on that of the sitter. It will there-
fore be seen that the phenomena are due to natural and spiritual processes
and are not the product of fraud. The evidence of results obtained beyond
the possibility of Hope's knowledge are abundantly sufficient to triumphantly
clear Hope from anv such charge. On many occasions we have been told in
the p1·h·acy of our home circle by our spirit Communicator. S- - and others,
that when Hope next came to us or if T would go to meet him at a certain
place, he \YOuld come upon the plate. The information has always ca1·efully
been withheld from Hope, but S-- has never once failed to make his
appearance on the plate, and often in a different pose to previous occasions.
On a nother occasion, another gen tleman , B--, whom we never fonew in
his mortal life. m anifested at the same time as S--, and said he wished to
come. I asked him not to come. He m ade no reply to this.
No word of this was conveyed to Hope, but on sitting with him
ten days afterwards a woman appeared with S-- on the plate whom B--
informed us was his first wife, giving also the cause of her death and the
street in which her survi,·ing sister resided. W e had ne\'er heard of such a
person, but on investigating in the South of E ngland, found the sister. who
confirmed all the details given, recognised the extra of the woman, confit·med
it by a gathering of he1· fami ly, and afterwards sent mf' the proof in a large
photo of her sister, taken abroad, differing slightly in pose, but identical with
the extra shown on our plate ! ! On this occasion I loaded the slide myself
from a new and previously unopened box of plates purchased only half :'In
hour before. I signed the plate, carried the slide to and from the camera,
and developed and fixed the plate myself, H ope merely making the exp9sure
in broad daylight and never being allowed to touch the plate, or put his
hands over it in the darkroom. In this and many other instances
Hope could, by no conceivable means, have any knowledge 01·
information which would enable him to produce the result fraudu-
lently and they, together with the many hundreds of recognised
extras obtained through his mediumship, triumphantly vindicate his
powers to all reasonable and honest-minded men. I knew H ope
intimately for 15 years, during the whole of which time I found him to be
an upright, God-fearing, honourable and transparently honest man , and J
count it an honour to have known him and to have received him into my
house. He had God-given powers which rank him as the equivalent of one
of the g.-eat prophets of old time, nay. caused him to exceed them , in his
powers of demonstrating the Spirit World, human survival, and " the life
of the world to come."
The more his work is examined the more it will be treasured and its
surpassing value realised.
Hope's reputation stands firmly established and the base calumnies of his
detractors will have no more effect on his good name than the splashings
of filthy water have upon a granite rock.
NOTE.-'.l'he image or the extra imprinted within the closed sliue is [ormed by psyclilo
light shining, or operating, in the spaco between the closed slrntter and the plat~; and no,t
by the said light passing through the closed shutter.
