{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__thurston___the_church_and_spiritualism.pdf","mytitle":"The Church And Spiritualism","mylang":"de"}
THE CHURCH AND
SPIRITUALISM
b y
HERBERT THURSTON, S.J.
T H E B R U C E PU BLISH IN G C O M P A N Y
M IL W A U K E E
Imprimi potest:
H E N R Y K E A N E , S.J.
Praep. Prov. Angl.
Nihil obstat:
H. B. RIES,
Censor librorum
Imprimatur:
-p SA M U EL A. STR ITC H ,
Archiepiscopus Milwaukiensis
January 3, 1933
CO PYRIGH T, I 9 3 3
H ERBERT TH URSTO N, S .J.
PRIN TED IN TH E UN ITED STATES OF AM ERICA
M
A, 1
8
1
3
3
3
© C I A 6 1 S
PREFACE BY T H E G EN ER A L EDITO R
Spiritualism has for a long time held a challenging posi­
tion in the public attention. By different men it is variously
viewed according to their chance impressions and probably,
too, their favorite prepossessions.
To some it is purely a matter of curiosity or perhaps of
bewilderment. To others it is first and foremost an object of
scientific research. Some see in it a convincing argument for
the survival of the human spirit after death, while others
believe it to be the merest mummery, a skilfully commercial­
ized though easily transparent trickery. A small inner circle
loudly proclaim it to all the world as a new religion, a peren­
nial revelation, for all time destined to enlighten and reform
society. And finally there still remains the number of its
own devoted clientele, the men and women to whom it
implies neither more nor less than an eager hope and an
absorbing pursuit to hold communion with their own
departed.
For excellent reasons, as the author clearly shows, the
Church has placed her prohibition against attendance of
her faithful at spiritualistic seances. Yet Catholic authors
differ widely in the emphasis respectively laid by them on
the various causes hitherto assigned to spiritualistic pheno­
mena. Doctrinally and in principle they are fully agreed.
While the practical conduct of Catholics is thus wisely
guided by the Church, the vital questions raised by Spiritual­
ism continue none the less to call for the most minutely care­
ful, prudent, and scientific investigation. Much may remain
to be discovered that we have hitherto hardly surmised.
A book, therefore, on this important subject by one who
speaks from a long acquaintance with spiritualistic literature
V
VI PREFACE BY TH E GEN ERAL EDITOR
should be as widely welcomed as it is imperatively needed.
Father Thurston’s interest in psychic phenomena, as he
himself informs us, dates back some sixty years. As a staff
member of the London Month he has concerned himself
especially with psychic and mystical phenomena, and has had
the advantage of coming into contact with many who have
played a leading part in this field of research. His mental at­
titude in all these undertakings has invariably been one of
impartial objectivity. Nothing, except truth and fact, has ever
been permitted to influence his final judgments. Such are the
characteristics which everyone familiar with the work of
Father Thurston will gladly recognize in him.
As for the present Preface to his book, it seems to me that
the best service I can render the reader will be to give him,
however briefly, what I may call the historic background
for the subject treated in this volume.
To peer beyond the veil of death and hold communion
with the departed has perhaps at all times been the longing
of certain souls. The questions that Spiritualism raises in our
own day are such as naturally tantalize the human mind
when left to its own surmises. Deprived of the safe guidance
of the Church, man, in the face of death, finds himself
standing baffled and bewildered on the bourne of another
world.
That the human soul does not perish with the body has
been the belief of all the ages. In the earliest graves where
Mousterian man, millenniums of years ago, deposited with
sacred reverence the remains of his beloved dead, he piously
laid away with them the most precious gifts — weapons and
food for their use, paint and ornaments to adorn them in
the spirit land.
Debased with error as his religion had become, man still
firmly held to the fundamental facts of the existence of God
PREFACE BY TH E GEN ERAL EDITOR vii
and of a future life. Nothing has ever been able to obliterate
these primeval traditions and convictions. The Church, in
her turn, has definitely taught the existence of an omni­
present, invisible Creator, “not far from every one of us,”
as St. Paul told the Athenians, “For in Him we live and
move and are.” 1 From the Sacred Scripture, as clearly inter­
preted by the Church, we still further learn of other beings,
equally invisible to our corporeal eyes, angels of light and
spirits of darkness, ever present in our midst. Missioned by
God for our aid or ruthlessly bent on our destruction, they
ever interweave with our daily lives.
We are certain no less of the survival after death of the
soul of man. But here precisely we approach the point most
intimately touched upon by Spiritualism. “ Is there any evi­
dence,” we must pertinently ask, “ to support the spiritualist
contention of a free communication, through specially
endowed mediums, between these disincarnate souls and
men now living upon earth?”
In answering this question let us say that one thing we
know with certainty. It is the fact that at its departure from
this life the soul of every man and woman, accountable here
upon earth, is judged by God according to its just deserts.
In that same moment it is assigned at once to its own definite
state in a future existence. This can only be, according to
Christian doctrine, either one of temporary purgation to fit
it for the Beatific Vision, or else one of everlasting punish­
ment, or of instant and eternal reward. In none of these cases
can we assume that its return to earth will be lightly per­
mitted. With certainty we can say that it will not take place
at the mere summons of a spiritualistic medium, but only
at the disposition of the Divine Will.
'Acts xvii. 27, 28.
PREFACE BY TH E GEN ERAL EDITOR
viii
If in the Old Testament we read of the soul of Samuel
apparently answering the summons of the woman at Endor
with “a divining spirit,” the mysterious medium appealed
to by Saul, we can readily understand the reason. If the
saintly spirit of the last of the great Judges in Israel appeared
indeed, it was not through any occult power of the chosen
medium, as the Fathers teach, but only by the power of
God, that in His Providence He might smite with condign
chastisement the unfaithful King and foretell his tragic end.
“And forthwith Saul fell all along on the ground, for he
was frightened with the words of Samuel.” 2
Saul well knew that in consulting her he was violating
the express commandment of God. The divine legislation
forbidding all such attempted communication had been
definitely laid down to the children of Israel before ever they
set foot on the promised land and wrested it from the
nations which before had practised precisely these “ abomina­
tions” :
“When thou art come into the land which the Lord thy
God shall give thee,” we read in Deuteronomy, “beware lest
thou have a mind to imitate the abominations of those
nations. Neither let there be found among you anyone that
shall expiate his son or daughter, making them pass through
fire . . . nor any one that consulteth pythonic spirits, or
fortune tellers, or that seeketh the truth from the dead.” 3
It is obvious, therefore, how God instructed His people in
regard to all these practises, then freely in vogue under the
ancient paganism.
In our own day the purported communication with the
spirits of the departed, through the intervention of highly
sensitive mediums, has naturally assumed its own peculiar
3I Kings xxviii. 20.
'xviii. 9 - 1 1.
PREFACE BY TH E GEN ERAL EDITOR IX
characteristics. Yet accepting Spiritualism at its own eval­
uation, it definitely professes to do precisely what was for­
bidden in the Old Testament: “Neither let there be found
among you any one . . . that seeketh the truth from the
dead.”
Necromancy, as this practise had been called in more
plain-spoken days, has been sufficiently familiar throughout
the centuries, but something, at least, of abhorrence seems
always to have attached to it. The inspired Scriptures speak
of it as an “abomination.” Under the Old Laws it could not
be permitted to have its place among a people “holy to the
Lord.” Much less, therefore, can it be condoned today among
those whom St. Peter calls: “a chosen generation, a kingly
priesthood, a holy nation, a purchased people.”4
Modern Spiritualism, while claiming to exercise the same
power of communication with the dead, has contrived, how­
ever, to give to it a new setting. It has cast about it an air
of social respectability, swathed it in an atmosphere of allur­
ing mystery, played on the responsiveness of its visitors with
all the appurtenances of dim lights, soft music, swaying
curtains, and whatever else might attune them to the desired
psychic mood.
So much for its popular presentation. But we must not
deny that modern Spiritualism has also, and that not seldom,
attracted the educated, the cultured, and people of wealth or
prestige. It has not hesitated even, and that in numerous
instances, to submit to all the exacting demands of scientific
investigation. In a word, it has cast aside on occasion its often
deceptive trappings and dared to stand the test of closest
scrutiny — with varying results.
The questions raised, therefore, are not so simple as many
might have us believe. Are we dealing with a clever decep-
4I Pet. ii. 9.
X PREFACE BY TH E G EN ERAL EDITOR
tion? Has the Angel of Darkness once more transformed
himself into an angel of light? Are there factors to be here
taken into account of which we may as yet understand but
little ? Or are there even — and it is mentioned as the merest
possibility by the author — invisible and immaterial pres­
ences of whom, perhaps, we have no knowledge whatsoever ?
Such are questions touched upon, in the course of this
volume, with equal learning, skill, and prudence. The
reader, whoever he may be, will follow it, we are certain,
with keenest interest and no slight measure of intellectual
enlightenment concerning not merely Spiritualism, but gen­
eral psychic phenomena which we may not ignore.
Joseph H usslein, S.J., Ph.D.,
General Editor, Science and Culture Series
St. Louis University,
October 23, 1932.
AU TH O R’S PREFACE
There are three main contentions embodied in this book.
The first is that genuine and inexplicable phenomena, even
of the physical order, do occur in the presence of certain ex­
ceptionally constituted persons called “mediums” ; secondly,
that for the mass of mankind, and notably for Catholics,
spiritualistic practices, quite apart from the Church’s
prohibition, are dangerous and altogether undesirable; and
thirdly, that people have learned nothing from their at­
tempted intercourse with the spirits of the departed — an
almost inevitable result when the fact is borne in mind that
the identity of the supposed communicator can never be
establishedwith certainty.
My contact with these subjects goes a very long way back.
About the year 1865, when I was a boy of eight or nine, my
father, as a medical man, became interested in hypnotism, or
as it was then more commonly called, “ mesmerism.” He
chanced to make the acquaintance of Mr. J. H. Powell, at
that date editor of The Spiritual Times, a journal, as its cover
announced, “devoted to the facts, philosophy, and practical
uses of modern Spiritualism,” and for some time that gentle­
man was a constant visitor in our house. It happened, too,
that a lad in my father’s employ, attending one of Powell’s
public demonstrations of mesmerism proved to be an ex­
ceptionally good subject for such hypnotic experiments. He
fell completely under Powell’s control, and the latter, if ever
he caught sight of the youth across the street or at many
yards distance, was able to reduce him to a state of absolute
immobility. He could not stir, or raise his hand, or even
close his mouth, if he happened to be yawning, until the
mesmerist chose to release him. One of my earliest memories
XI
Xll AUTHOR’S PREFACE
is that of an experiment performed in our house by Powell,
when, calling to the lad just referred to, he bade him lie
down upon his back on three chairs, his head on one, his
heels on another, and his body supported by the third chair
in the middle. With a few passes, Powell threw the lad into
a deep hypnotic trance, and when “ Jim” lay in a state of
cataleptic rigidity, he removed the middle chair and stood
upon the boy’s thighs. Powell was a tall, big-boned man, and
Jim a rather weedy youth of seventeen or eighteen, but he
supported the weight as if he were an iron bar. I may confess
that the impression that there are mysterious forces in nature
of which we understand very little has remained with me
ever since, although on the other hand I seem to be per­
sonally quite devoid of sensibility to their subtle influence.
I have never had anything which I could seriously call a
psychic experience in my life, and I think that my natural
bent is distinctly in the direction of scepticism.
To turn to another point, I should like to say that though
I am aware that Catholic usage in the United States favours
the term “ Spiritism” and that the Catholic Encyclopedia,
with Dr. Liljencrants and several other writers, informs us
that this is the correct designation, I have deliberately,
throughout this book, adhered to the primitive terminology
“ Spiritualism” and “ Spiritualist.” This was the appellation
which had already established itself among the disciples of
the new cult at least as early as 1852, and it seems to me that
those who inaugurate a movement have the best title to de­
termine the name by which it is to be called. We meet the
term “ Spiritualism” in Ballou’s book published at Boston
in 1852, and the treatise of Edmonds and Dexter (1853),
which is itself called “Spiritualism,” quotes an automatic
script, dated June 20,1852, which purported to emanate from
Henry Clay. In this we read: “ Brother Edmonds, you will
AUTHOR’S PREFACE xui
do more good with ‘Spiritualism’ than ever I did with
politics. Go on. Henry Clay.”
But apart from this, the more serious objection remains
that “Spiritism” was afterwards introduced on the continent
of Europe to denote something entirely different; to wit, the
body of beliefs formulated by Allan Kardec (i.e., H. D.
Rivail) of which the central feature was the doctrine of re­
incarnation. This particular teaching was — and indeed is
still — repudiated by the majority of American and English
spiritualists. It would be easy to quote a dozen plain testi­
monies bearing on this matter from the early literature of
the subject. D. D. Home, the most famous of mediums, who
knew America as well as England and Europe, strongly ob­
jected to the term “ Spiritism” precisely on this ground. “ I
need not explain,” he says, in writing to a London news­
paper, The Spiritualist (October i, 1875), “that there is a
difference between Spiritists and Spiritualists. Of course the
former are reincarnationists.” But perhaps the most con­
vincing evidence which could be quoted is that of Madame
Blavatsky. In a letter to Professor Corson of March 20, 1875,
she complains that “ the French Spiritistes are reincarnation­
ists and zealous missionaries for the same.” Further she de­
scribes, little foreseeing her own later developments, how
she, a true spiritualist, had quarrelled with Prince Wittgen­
stein because he had become a spiritist, i.e., “a reincarnation-
ist,” a form of teaching upon which she proceeds to pour
ridicule. It is beyond question that there were in France two
separate journals, the one called the Revue Spirite and the
other the Revue Spiritualiste. The former taught reincarna­
tion; the latter did not. What is more, the distinction per­
sisted and is clearly recognized by the Congres Spirite et
Spiritualiste international held at Paris in 1900 (see the
Compte Rendu, p. 6 11). An article on the use of these terms
XIV AUTHOR’S PREFACE
appeared in the London Spiritual Magazine (February,
1869), the writer of which begins by saying: “ It is customary
with the opposition to disparage Spiritualism by calling it
Spiritism,” and after pointing out that the latter term was
identified with the Kardecian reincarnation doctrine, he
complains that “to confound Spiritualism with Spiritism is
either ignorance or wilful misrepresentation.”
I am inclined to think that the general acceptance of the
form “ Spiritism” among American Catholics is due to the
influence of Orestes A. Brownson. In two different articles
in the Catholic World he contended many years ago that the
name “ Spiritualism” applies to any doctrine opposed to
materialism, and that to avoid confusion it would be well
to set apart the word “ Spiritism” to describe the belief that
departed spirits hold communication with men. In defence
of the practice here followed, I would urge that usage
(1quern penes arbitrium est et ius et norma loquendi) is the
supreme and final standard of correct diction in such mat­
ters. The religious revolt of the sixteenth century has to be
called the “Reformation” though many of us hold that it
was in fact very much the contrary; and we make no diffi­
culty in conceding the term “Orthodox” to the Greek and
Russian schismatics, while fully aware that to this name in
its etymological meaning they have absolutely no claim. Not­
withstanding Brownson’s protest, Spiritualism is still the
term which prevails among those who employ mediums and
hold séances, and if it is stated of anyone that he is a spirit­
ualist, nobody now supposes that this only means that, like
every other believing Christian, he rejects materialism.
But I am glad to avail myself of this mention of Brown-
son’s name as an excuse for quoting a passage from his book
T he Spirit - Rapper. The warning which follows seems to me
eminently sensible and I can ask no better support for the
AUTHOR’S PREFACE xv
attitude-taken up in more than one chapter of the present
volume.
“In the case of the spiritists of our own times [writes Brownson],
much harm is done by telling them the spirit manifestations are all
humbuggery, imagination, fraud or trickery. These people know that
it is not so. They know they are not knaves, that they practise no
trickery and have no wish to deceive or be deceived. They are not
conscious of any dishonest intentions, and they have no reason to
think that they are less intelligent or less sharp sighted than those
who abuse them as impostors, or ridicule them as dupes. The worst
way in the world to convert a man from his errors is to begin by
abusing him and denying what he knows to be true. Except in the
teachings of God, or what is the same thing, the teachings of men
appointed by Him to teach, we never find unmixed truth, for to
err is human; and on the other hand, we never find pure unmixed
falsehood. . . . These Spiritists are deceived or deluded, I grant,
for they are the sport of a lying and deceiving spirit, but they are
not deceived or deluded as to the phenomena to which they can
testify, nor, as a general thing, do they wish to deceive others. Among
them there may be knaves and fools, there may be quacks and im­
postors, but I have no reason to suppose that the mass of them are
not as intelligent and as honest as the common run of men, as the
world goes. Their error is in the explication of the phenomena, not
in asserting the reality of the phenomena; and to begin by telling
them that no such phenomena have ever occurred, that the spirit
manifestations are all humbug, is, to say the least, a very unwise pro­
ceeding. . . . I have known many apparently sincere and pious per­
sons driven to apostacy by this scepticism with regard to the phenom­
ena they have themselves seen.”
So far as concerns the composition of the present book I
may note that much of its contents will be found in scattered
articles contributed during the past twenty years to The
Month, The Dublin Review, the Irish Quarterly Studies, the
London Tablet, etc., and that they are reproduced here with
the kind permission of the respective editors. But the whole
of the matter has been thoroughly revised, a great deal of it
XVI AUTHOR’S PREFACE
recast and developed, and chapters or sections added which
have not before appeared in print. By way of appendix I
have included an article by another pen which was published
some forty years ago in The Month, not long after I joined
the staff of that periodical. The author’s name was not given
— it is only signed with initials — but I am quite confident
that the then editor, Father Richard Clarke, S.J., would not
have inserted it unless he had had very sound reason to be
assured of his contributor’s good faith and reliability. His
own views of the harmful effects of Spiritualism were strong.
He had himself, a few months earlier, devoted some forty
pages in all to denouncing the evils of the cult, and he
would not have been likely to give currency to what might
seem to some readers a sort of apology for such practices
unless he had been satisfied that this was no fictitious story.
It is to be remembered in any case that the article was
printed before any explicit prohibition of automatic writing
or participation in séances had been issued from Rome.
Besides the books accessible in the library of the British
Museum, in the London Library, and in that of the Society
for Psychical Research, I have been able to avail myself of
sundry isolated papers which I owe to the kindness of Dr.
W. Franklin Prince of the Boston S.P.R., Mr. Harry Price,
Director of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research,
London, the late Sir William Barrett, and others. I should
like, in particular, to record my indebtedness to the late Pro­
fessor Henry Ford, of Princeton University, who some years
ago was good enough to send me a considerable number of
early books on Spiritualism, many of which have proved of
great service.
It is with much regret that I confess my inability to iden­
tify myself completely with the point of view of some of
my religious brethren who have recently written on Spir-
AUTHOR'S PREFACE xvn
itualism. I refer more particularly to the book Los Fraudes
Espiritistas y los Fenómenos Metapsiquicos of Father C. M.
de Heredia (1931) and to that of Father Fernando Palmes,
Metapsiquica y Espiritismo (1932). While I am thoroughly
at one with them in the belief that the attempt to communi­
cate with the dead is subversive of Christian principle and
full of dangers, and while on the other hand I also share
their conviction that the phenomena of Spiritualism must
not be too easily attributed to diabolical agencies, I do not
find myself forced to conclude that the alleged manifesta­
tions are due in nearly all cases to trickery, whether con­
scious or unconscious. My own view approximates much
more closely to that of Father Alois Gatterer, S.J., Professor
at the University of Innsbruck, whose admirably documented
essay Der wissenschaftliche Okkultismus und sein Ver­
hältnis zur Philosophie gives proof of a profound and ex­
perimental study of the problems involved. It is no doubt
unsatisfactory to have no definite explanation to propose, but
so far as my own study of Spiritualism both in its earlier and
later phases qualifies me to express an opinion, I am per­
suaded that we must wait for a solution until much more
evidence has accumulated than is available at present. Our
conceptions of the physical constitution of matter have un­
dergone a revolution, and who can say whether we have
yet reached finality. But while in physical problems we can
repeat our experiments at will with uniform results, in psy­
chic matters we seem to be dependent on a chance combina­
tion of conditions the very nature of which is veiled from us.
Indeed, for all we know, these may be determined by the
free choice of intelligent beings who take pleasure in mock­
ing our efforts to establish any permanent connection with
them. No wonder that progress is slow and uncertain. An
attitude of patient resignation to our limitations, perhaps for
xviii AUTHOR’S PREFACE
centuries to come, seems to be imposed whether we like it
or not.
I trust, however, that my conviction of the genuineness of
certain well-attested psychic phenomena will not convey the
impression that I am blind to the enormous amount of fraud
associated with Spiritualism, both now and in the past. It
may not be out of place to refer to a striking piece of testi­
mony on this point published fifty years ago in a source quite
above suspicion. The Rev. George Sexton, converted almost
against his will from rationalism to Christian belief owing
to the spiritualistic phenomena he had witnessed, had edited
for some time The Spiritual Magazine which had been ap­
pearing monthly in London from 1861 to 1877. In this latter
year he had to announce that the journal could not continue
publication, and gave as an explanation that his position
had been rendered impossible both by the anti-Christian bias
of the younger generation of spiritualists, and by the wide
prevalence of gross imposture among accredited mediums.
He himself by no means renounced his belief in the cause,
but he complained that some of the oldest and most energetic
workers had been alienated by the way in which things
were developing.
“ Mr. William Howitt [he states], facile princeps among spiritu­
alistic writers, wrote me, some time since, that could he have foreseen
to what Spiritualism was coming, he would never have allowed his
name to be associated with it. And this opinion of his is shared by
many others whose names I need not here introduce. Spiritualism
has not simply become anti-Christian, but, if possible, it has fallen
to a still lower depth. It harbours within its ranks mediums who
cheat and impose upon the credulous and unwary, as well as leading
public men who defend them for so doing on the ground that they
are under spirit control when they play tricks — a tacit sort of admis­
sion that the kind of spirits thus communicating lie and deceive as
much as the mediums they use. I have pointed this out again and
AUTHOR’S PREFACE xix
again in the pages of this Magazine, and done what I could to remedy
the evil, but I fear without much success.”
After referring to certain statements made in a previous
issue, Dr. Sexton goes on:
“ Since that time matters have grown considerably worse. One
medium after another has been detected cheating, until the outside
public have come to believe the whole thing an imposition, and even
conscientious spiritualists became puzzled to know which phenomena
to accept as genuine and which to reject as feats of legerdemain. And
as I have never hesitated to denounce trickery and to threaten to ex­
pose it whenever and wherever I may have detected it, I have, as a
matter of course, been very considerably vilified and persecuted.
. . . Spiritualism is a great and mighty truth [such was, no doubt,
Dr. Sexton’s sincere belief] and it came, I am convinced, in the
Providence of God to dispel the scepticism and materialism of this
unbelieving age. In the past it has done good service in this respect.
But if now it serves but to replace one form of scepticism by another
equally bad, or even worse, and if it harbours in its ranks cheats who
deceive and lie in connection with one of the most sacred of all sub­
jects, its end may easily be foreseen. Already it is dragged into the
mire to such an extent that many of its very warmest supporters in
times gone by are expressing themselves — as scores of letters that I
have received will testify — as thoroughly disgusted with the whole
thing. The greatest care and the labour of another Hercules will be
needed now to purify this modern Augean Stable.” 1
Such, in the opinion of a leading advocate of the cause,
was the condition of Spiritualism in England twenty-nine
years after this “ new revelation” had been given to the world,
and there is good reason to believe that in America things
were even worse. Whether the position has notably improved
during the half century which has elapsed since the above
comments were written seems to me more than doubtful.
There is one aspect of the subject which is but slightly
touched upon in the pages which follow. I refer to the
'The Spiritual Magazine, Voi. XVII (18 77), pp. 97-99.
XX AUTHOR’S PREFACE
pretentious claims of spiritualistic teaching, and the disap­
pointment consequent upon its failure to substantiate these
claims. Perhaps I may be allowed to refer to a little shilling
book of mine, Modern Spiritualism (London: Sheed and
Ward, 1928) in which this point of view is more directly
dealt with.
Herbert T hurston, S.J.
London, 31 Farm Street W.
17 June, 1932
CO N TEN TS
PAGE
Preface b y the General Ed it o r ................................ v
A uthor’s Pr e f a c e ...................................................... ix
CHAPTER
I. T he Church’s Directive Principles . . . . i
II. T he Founders of Modern Spiritualism . . 19
III. Catholicism and the Early Spiritualists . 45
IV. T he Conversion of Home, T he Medium . . 61
V. “Danger; Keep Off the Ic e ” ............................... 83
VI. W hat Comes of It ............................................ 107
VII. T he Bible and Christian T radition . . . . 133
VIII. T elekinetic Ph en o m en a................................... 143
IX. T he A ccordion Playing of D. D. Home . . 167
X. Materializations and “Katie K ing” . . . 188
XI. T he T ruth of T e l e p a t h y ...............................224
XII. Clair vo yan ce.....................................................244
XIII. “T he Gate of Remembrance” .......................... 270
XIV. T he Script of Oscar W i l d e ...............................289
XV. Some Modern Dev e lo p m en t s.......................... 309
XVI. T he Case of Doyle versus Houdini . . . . 331
XVII. T he “Fruitage” of Modern Spiritualism . . 348
Appendix: A Convert T hrough Spiritualism . . . 368
XXI
Chapter I
T H E CH U RCH ’S D IRECTIV E PRIN CIPLES
W hether Spiritualism can be said to be everywhere making
converts is not perhaps so certain as its votaries pretend. But
it is unquestionably more talked about, and more written
about, than it was before the War, and as a natural result
there has grown up of late years a considerable body of
Catholic literature, produced with the laudable purpose of
counteracting the spiritualistic propaganda now so actively
carried on. While much that has been published by way of
protest against the new cult must command the assent of all
sincere Christians, there are aspects of the question which
have provoked a marked difference of opinion not only
among the general public but within the Church itself. If
I may be pardoned for expressing a personal view, formed
after many years of interest in the subject, it seems to me
highly important that we should be on our guard against
those extremists who would commit us to theological posi­
tions from which, later on, it may be difficult to retire with
dignity. The biblical commentators of the time of Galileo,
having no inkling of the truths which astronomical science,
then in its infancy, was about to demonstrate, insisted that
the earth was at rest and that the sun was continually in mo­
tion. How, they urged, was it otherwise possible to justify the
statement of Holy Scripture that the sun and moon stood
still at the bidding of Josue ? This exegesis had consequences
which, as we all know, have given encouragement to count­
less assailants of papal authority and a certain amount of
trouble to our modern professors of apologetic. I cannot
help fancying that with regard to such subjects as morbid
2 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
psychology, hypnotism, thought transference, and man’s psy­
chic faculties we are even now hardly better equipped than
were the theologians of Galileo’s day in the matter of astron­
omy. It is possible that the next century or two may witness
the recognition of many psychic truths which are at present
hidden from us or barely suspected. Consequently, in the
meanwhile, it seems advisable to dogmatize as little as possible
until we have quite explicit guidance. Hypnotism, for ex­
ample, less than a century ago, was denounced by not a few
moral theologians as pure devilry, but while it still presents
many problems, it is recognized by this time as a natural
faculty which under proper control may even have its legiti­
mate uses.
That the Church has acted with absolute wisdom in pro­
hibiting spiritualistic practices to all her faithful subjects
is a conviction which I have long held, and which wider
study and experience have only served every day to deepen.
In this respect I find myself in thorough accord with the
writers criticised hereafter. But when they go further and
set out to explain the why and the wherefore of the Church’s
action, basing their contention to a large extent upon the
principles — or what are alleged to be the principles — of
mediaeval psychology and eschatology, I must confess to en­
tertaining a certain misgiving. Are we not a little in danger
of jumping to rash conclusions? Has the study of experi­
mental and morbid psychology no further revelations in
store ? Can we speak quite confidently regarding the limita­
tions or the range of the activities of angels, demons, and
discarnate human souls, notably the unbaptised, who, after
all, form numerically the vast majority of the human race?
Is it even certain that there are no other intelligent beings
at any time in God’s universe besides these three categories
of angels, demons, and human souls? I have no thought of
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES 3
affirming as a fact the possibility envisaged in this last ques­
tion; I only ask, can we be quite sure?
It seems that in the past, opinion has been left a good
deal of latitude. Simply as an illustration of the very wide
range of speculation which has found sanction in publica­
tions of unquestioned orthodoxy and which has gone un­
reproved for more than half a century, I cannot resist the
temptation to quote a passage or two from the “revelations”
recorded in the Life of Sister Anne Catherine Emmerich
by her Redemptorist biographer, Father Schmoger. After re­
lating a certain vision of angels and devils which she had
had, Anne Catherine went on:
“There are, also, souls neither in heaven, purgatory, nor hell, but
wandering the earth in trouble and anguish, aiming at something
they are bound to perform. They haunt deserted places, ruins, tombs,
and the scenes of their past misdeeds. They are spectres. . . . I have
often understood, in my childhood and later, that three whole choirs
of angelic spirits, higher than the archangels, fell, but were not cast
into hell; some, experiencing a sort of repentance, escaped for a time.
They are the planetary spirits that come upon earth to tempt man.
At the last day they will be judged and condemned. I have always
seen that the devils can never leave hell. I have seen, too, that many
of the damned go not directly to hell, but suffer in lonely places on
earth.” 1
She is also reported to have said:
“Great order reigns among the planetary spirits, who are fallen
spirits but not devils. They are very, very different from devils. They
go to and fro between the earth and the nine spheres. In one of these
spheres they are sad and melancholy; in another, impetuous and
violent; in a third, light and giddy; in a fourth, stingy, parsimonious,
miserly, etc. They exert an influence over the whole earth, over every
'Schmoger, Life of Anne Catherine Emmerich (Eng. Trans.), II, p. 206. It is
noteworthy that Father Papebroch, the famous Bollandist, seems to favor a similar
view that some of the fallen angels were not straightway cast into hell but still
haunt this earth as “ powers of the air.” Sec Acta Sanctorum, June, Vol. IV, orig­
inal edition, p. 385.
TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
4
man from his birth, and they form certain orders and associates. . . .
Some of these spirits are an occasion of good, in as much as man
himself directs their influence to good.” 2
There is much more to the same effect. What is especially
noteworthy is that Father Schmoger was Provincial of the
Redemptorists in Bavaria at the very time when he was pre­
paring this biography, that it was dedicated to Cardinal von
Reisach, an active member of the Congregations of the Holy
Office and of the Index, that it appeared with the cordial
imprimatur of the Bishop of Limburg,3 that Pope Pius IX
is stated to have taken a personal interest in the preparation
of an Italian translation, and that translations appeared also
in France (1872) and in America (1885) with fresh episco­
pal encouragement.
Supposing that there were any justification in fact for the
above strange disclosures, taken down, as her amanuensis
Clement Brentano alleged, from the lips of Sister Emmerich,
in September, 1820, they would leave room for abundant
speculation as to the possible causes of spiritualistic phe­
nomena. There is, in my judgment, no reason whatever for
regarding these so-called revelations as of supernatural ori­
gin; but if learned theologians can pass them for the press
without any note of censure, the fact seems to imply that we
possess very little positive knowledge regarding the spiritual
influences which, under certain ill-understood conditions,
'ibid., p. 207.
*The second volume, in which the above rather startling utterances occur,
appeared with a separate imprimatur in the following terms: “ As the second
volume of the work entitled Life of Anne Catherine Emmerich, by Father
Schmoger, like the first, contains nothing contrary to the teachings of the Cath­
olic Church, either in morals or dogma, but much which, if read in the spirit of
piety, may contribute greatly to the edification of the faithful, we willingly
grant it, after careful perusal, the approbation solicited by the author. Peter
Joseph, Bishop of Limburg.”
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES 5
may possibly be able to interfere in the everyday concerns
of mankind.
Let me note in passing that Father W. Hiimpfner,
O.E.S.A. (see his Clemens Brentanos Glaubwürdigkeit in
seinen Emmerick^Aujzeichnungen) would contend, upon
what seems to me inadequate evidence, that the above utter­
ances were the invention of Brentano and did not come from
Sister Emmerich herself. But my point for the moment is
not that these were true revelations or that she was respon­
sible for them, but that for fifty years they were accepted as
hers without protest by all sorts of eminent theologians, who
believed her to have a supernatural knowledge of many
mysteries hidden from mankind at large. It was only when
these and similar statements, coming before the Congrega­
tion of Rites in the process of her beatification, threatened
to block further progress that Father Hiimpfner, the new
postulator of her cause, turning completely round upon
Sister Emmerich’s former biographers, such as Father
Schmöger and Father Wegener, urged that Brentano’s ac­
count of her visions was utterly untrustworthy. Father
Wegener, O.E.S.A., the first postulator of her cause, had
previously published a treatise in a precisely contrary sense.
I would urge, then, that we can hardly be too cautious in
pronouncing upon the nature of spiritualistic phenomena,
and that the problem cannot be solved by merely invoking,
as many seem disposed to do, the authority of such great
names as those of St. Augustine, St. Gregory, St. Chrysos­
tom, and St. Thomas Aquinas. In this respect the little
volume of Père Mainage, O.P., La Religion Spirite, sets an
excellent example of moderation of tone. In three brief prop­
ositions, which the distinguished author describes as the “ di­
rective principles of Catholic teaching,” he sums up all that
i
6 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
it is quite safe to affirm regarding the Church’s guidance in
this matter. His three propositions are these:
“ i. The Church has not pronounced upon the essential nature of
spiritualistic phenomena.
“ 2. The Church forbids the general body of the faithful to take
any part in spiritualistic practices.
“3. In the manifestations which occur the Church suspects that
diabolic agencies may per accidens intervene.” *
It were much to be desired that Catholic writers on the
subject would emphasize these points, which are matters
of certainty, and would, on the other hand, make it clear
that the further considerations so often urged in anti-spirit-
ualistic literature carry no more weight than attaches to the
private opinion of those who have studied the movement
with more or less of attention. It does not follow because
St. Augustine, or even the Angelic Doctor, says this or that,
that the Church’s authority is in any way involved. Strained
arguments and overpositive statements are in the long run
nearly always prejudicial to the cause of truth, for exaggera­
tion in one direction is apt to be followed by a reaction and
exaggeration in the opposite sense. The insistence upon what
has been called “ the wholesale devil theory” in spiritualistic
phenomena, as expounded, for example, by that prolific
writer and lecturer on Spiritualism, the late Mr. J. Godfrey
Raupert, has only led to the more ready acceptance of the
nothing-but-trickery theory with which some prominent
American authorities, Baron Liljencrants, S.T.D., Father de
Heredia, S.J., and Dr. J. }. Walsh, are especially identified. Of
the two extremes, it is the latter, in spite of its appeal to com­
mon sense, which seems to me the more misleading and con­
sequently the more likely to prove dangerous to the cause
we all seek to serve. The convinced spiritualist will, no doubt,
'La Religion Spirite, p. 176.
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES 7
be indignant if you describe his controls and communica­
tors as devils, but he recognizes that there is at any rate a
common basis for argument. On the other hand, if you
assure him that no real phenomena take place and that he
is simply the victim of imposture, the impression produced
will be that the critic is not only wrong in theory but has no
personal knowledge or experience of the facts. Even such
writers as Père Mainage, Father Blackmore, and Père Roure
seem to me to dwell too much on the fraudulent side of
Spiritualism — the temptation to enliven their pages with
piquant anecdotes of discomfited mediums is naturally
strong — and there is a tendency to direct attention to sen­
sational manifestations alone, ignoring the very real diffi­
culty presented by the simplest of phenomena. After all, if
once the hypothesis of trickery be excluded, a series of raps,
giving intelligent answers to spoken questions, constitutes,
to my mind, just as insoluble a problem as a full-length
materialisation or the floating of the medium’s body in the
air. Tables do not rap of themselves, and I, for one, find that
Père Mainage’s theory of kinetic action at a distance (of
which more anon) raises even more serious difficulties than
those it claims to remove.
Despite the wide prevalence of fraud, which is, of course,
immensely fostered by the conditions under which séances
are commonly held, the fact that physical phenomena do
take place can hardly be denied by any serious student of
the evidence, unless he takes up an attitude of scepticism,
which would undermine the validity of all human testimony
in favour of the miraculous. In certain subsequent chapters
of the present volume, I hope to show the strength of the
case which may be made out, first for the levitation of heavy
dining-room tables in private houses, without contact and
under good lighting conditions,5 and secondly, for the ac-
8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
cordion playing of the medium D. D. Home, when the in­
strument was held upside down, not only in his hands, but
in the hands of others who were present, without anyone
touching the keys. In both cases the mass of evidence is very
great, the standing of the numerous witnesses was unexcep­
tionable, and the manifestations were continued over a peri­
od of many years without the slightest indication which
would point to trickery or collusion.
At the same time it must be admitted that conviction in
these matters belongs to the category of things which are
not transferable. It comes most powerfully from personal
contact with the facts, or at any rate with those who have
been witnesses of the facts. For this reason it is not now my
object to try to bring over to my opinion those who may
think otherwise, but I am seeking to explain why I find it
impossible to accept the view which at present seems to be
gaining ground in many quarters that “ Spiritualism is
Fake.” Much of it may be fake, but by no means all. It
would not be easy to say how strongly I endorse the follow­
ing utterance of the well-known Dominican, Père Mainage.
My own experience here in London has been, so far as I can
judge, precisely parallel to his in Paris.
“Is it possible [he asks], without falling into an absurd extreme
of hypercriticism, to refuse credence to the confidences, made by word
of mouth, of people whose mental balance, good faith, and high
level of intelligence are beyond all question? To myself, as priest and
religious, it has happened — if I may for once be pardoned the in­
troduction of my own modest testimony — to come into contact
“The occurrence of such phenomena in the private houses of people beyond
suspicion of collusion seems to me a point of very great importance. Able con­
jurers like Maskelyne or Houdini or Father de Heredia can imitate many of the
most startling manifestations of Spiritualism, but these things are done on a
stage, under conditions which facilitate the use of apparatus and the introduc­
tion of confederates. A heavy dining-room table on a turkey carpet cannot be
moved along the floor by the sleight of hand of a single performer.
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES 9
with such witnesses. And I admit, very simply and without waiting
for the final word of science, I admit that I believe in the objectivity
of spiritistic phenomena. There are tables which turn and which talk.
Mediumistic script is not the figment of a crazy imagination. Appari­
tions are not all of them the result of unreal hallucinations, and the
partial materialisations obtained by Dr. Geley are not a pure
chimera.” 6
It is not the most marvellous phenomena or the names of
famous scientists which produce the deepest impression, but
for the individual a greater evidential weight attaches to the
much less startling experiences of his own intimate ac­
quaintances. The manifestations which caused such an im­
mense sensation when the wave of Spiritualism first swept
over the United States in 1850-1852, were for the most part
of a very simple character. If the raps then heard were
merely due to some silly trick of toe-cracking, or “ subluxa­
tion of the bones,” as my friend, Dr. }. J. Walsh, prefers to
call it, the whole thing would soon have been convincingly
exposed, and the movement would have come to an end.
Dr. Walsh is apparently acquainted with one very capable
expert in toe-cracking,7 but it does not seem to be a very
common accomplishment; and if we are to account for the
craze of the early fifties, hundreds, if not thousands, of such
performers must have been busily employed in all the great
American cities. Moreover, no amount of toe-cracking can
explain the movement of tables, with the many other at­
tendant phenomena, and — perhaps most serious difficulty
of all — any very gifted practitioner in the toe-cracking busi­
ness would soon have found that he could make just as good
an income by exposing it as by continuing the imposture.
Have the advocates of the nothing-but-trickery theory
“Mainage, op. cit., p. 87.
’This was “ Professor Merrigan, the anatomist of Fordham University Medical
School,” see Spiritualism a Faf^e, p. 39.
10 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
taken the pains to read the contemporary reports of the early
participators in the movement? I hardly think so, for they
rarely quote them at first hand. Starting myself with a strong
sceptical bias, this early literature of Spiritualism has pro­
duced upon me the same impression which it undoubtedly
produced upon the most thoughtful and unprejudiced pub­
licists of that day, men like Horace Greeley, Orestes A.
Brownson, W. Lloyd Garrison, the anti-slavery leader, and
J. F. Whitney, the editor of the New York Pathfinder. All
these were serious-minded observers, who lived in the centre
of the disturbance. None of them finally adopted Spiritual­
ism as a religion, but they all bore testimony to the genuine­
ness of the manifestations. Let it be sufficient here to quote
a few lines written by W. Lloyd Garrison in 1852:
“ We have read [he says] nearly everything that has appeared on
all sides of the question, and endeavoured to hold the scales impar­
tially. . . . We have heard the rappings, seen the tables moved and
overturned as by an invisible power . . . we are unable here to state
in what light we regard the phenomena beyond expressing our con­
viction that no satisfactory solution has yet been given by those who
attribute them to imposture or delusion.”8
Father Blackmore, Père Roure, and others, while holding
that the overwhelming majority of the phenomena claimed
by spiritualists are due to fraud, self-deception, or simple
telepathy, admit nevertheless that there is a residuum which
cannot be so explained. These they pronounce to be of ne­
cessity diabolic in origin, because God would not permit lost
souls or souls in purgatory to cooperate in the nefarious pro­
cedure of spiritualists and mediums. They appeal, moreover,
to the teaching of St. Thomas, who lays down that such souls
by their natural knowledge are not even cognisant of what
passes on earth. The Angelic Doctor says, for example :
’Quoted from The Liberator, of May 7, 1852, by W. P. Garrison, in W. Lloyd
Garrison, the Story of his Life, Vol. Ill, p. 75. There are many similar utterances
in The Liberator which I have myself verified.
P
I
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES u
“ The separated soul has knowledge of singulars by being in a way
determined to them either by some vestige of previous knowledge or
affection, or by the Divine order. Now the souls departed are in a
state of separation from the living, both by Divine order and by their
mode of existence, whilst they are joined to the world of incorporeal
spiritual substances; and hence they are ignorant of what goes on
amongst us. Whereof St. Gregory gives the reason thus: “ The dead
do not know how the living act, the life of the spirit is far from the
life of the flesh, and so, as corporeal things differ from incorporeal in
genus, so they are distinct in knowledge” (Moralia, X II). Augustine
seems to say the same (De Cura Mort., X III), when he asserts that
‘the souls of the dead have no concern in the affairs of the living.’ ” 9
But surely, in spite of the veneration we all pay to the
authority of St. Thomas, this is rather a slender basis on
which to found a final and absolute conclusion. I prefer to ab­
stain from argument upon such transcendental matters,which
are beyond my competence, but it is certain that this opinion
of the Angelic Doctor has not of recent years won universal
acceptance even in the most orthodox circles. It will be suffi­
cient to quote a passage from a book, La Psychologie du
Purgatoire, published in 1901, with due imprimaturs, by the
Abbé Chollet, D. D., professor of Theology at Lille. Speak­
ing of the intellectual activities of those detained in the place
of expiation, he says:
“ The eye of the soul has a still wider range. It penetrates to the
surface of this world of ours. In anguish as in glory, in Purgatory as
in Heaven, the soul possesses the same nature; its knowledge of the
earth is the same; and if the occurrences of this life are perceptible to
the elect in Heaven, they are equally perceptible to the elect in Purga­
tory. Those, then, whose loss we deplore have not really left us; as im­
material beings they are unaffected by locality or distance, they are
near us; clear-sighted as they are, there are no opaque barriers, there
is no dimness of vision. They know us, they follow our movements,
and in the delicate consideration of a love which grows continually
’ St. Thomas, Summa Theol., Part I, q. 89, art. 8, and cf. Part I, q. 5 1, art. 2.
Quoted from the official translation published by the English Dominicans.
/
12 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
purer, in the concentration of a gaze which becomes ever more in­
tent, they enfold us in their affectionate solicitude.” 10
This comfortable doctrine may not be very certain, but it
is to all appearance as well founded as that which it opposes.
Even if we allow it only a certain measure of probability,
the backbone of an argument which Father Blackmore, to
take one example, develops through fifty pages11 is seriously
shaken. Moreover, the whole line of appeal to what would
be congruous or incongruous in the divine regimen of the
universe is very unconvincing. “To suppose,” writes Father
Blackmore, “ that blessed souls in the friendship of God,
whether in heaven or in the state of purgation, should be­
come the tools or abettors of mediums who seek the gain
of lucre in the gratification of the sinful curiosity of mortals,
is an impious thought and most repugnant to Christian
minds.” This, it seems to me, is to beg the question. One
might almost equally well argue that it is repugnant to the
goodness of God to maintain in existence the scoundrel who
only uses the wit, the health, and the resources which his
Creator has bestowed upon him, in plotting the moral ruin
of the young and defenceless, or to allow the devil to trans­
form himself into an angel of light by prompting the ascetic
to practise excessive austerities. Still less can this reasoning
be safely applied to the souls in limbo, of whose conditions
of existence we know absolutely nothing. And, lastly, when
we are told that the lost cannot possibly interfere because
“reprobate souls have no egress from their prison,” one feels
inclined to ask where that prison is situated and what the
doors are made of. It is very probable that Father Blackmore
is right in maintaining that neither the souls in hell nor
’“Chollet, La Psychologic du Purgatoire, p. 47; other authors might easily be
quoted in the same sense.
’’Spiritism, Facts and Frauds, pp. 375-427.
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES i3
those in purgatory have any share in producing spiritualistic
phenomena, but can any really sound and conclusive argu­
ment be adduced in this matter? Is it not better to confess
our ignorance than to build up a whole edifice of specula­
tion, too commonly with a certain affectation of dogmatic
authority, about matters which the Almighty has not
thought fit to reveal?
Taking a general view of the recent attitude of Catholics
towards Spiritualism, it may be affirmed without fear of con­
tradiction that there is a distinct tendency at present to seek
explanations which evade the necessity of postulating diabolic
intervention. The fraudulent aspects of the cult are every­
where very much stressed, while nearly all the writers re­
ferred to seem prepared to admit that hysteria, telepathy,
and psychological hyperaesthesias developed in the hypnotic
trance may have much to say in what are commonly reputed
the phenomena of Spiritualism. Probably this tendency is
due in large measure to the fact that the majority of those
who adopt it as a religion show no greater signs of being
subject to Satanic influences than the followers of Christian
Science, Theosophy, New Thought, and the other weird
cults with which we are now familiar, and also to the fact
that it is not easy to draw a hard and fast line distinguishing
spiritistic manifestations from other phenomena which are
recognized as perfectly innocent. The evidence for the oc­
currence of what are commonly called apparitions at the
point of death is overwhelming.12 Some of these have a reli­
gious character, as when St. Peter of Alcantara, at the mo­
ment of his decease, showed himself to St. Theresa in an­
other part of Spain, or as when warning seems to have been
'’Apart from the huge collection of cases recorded in Gurney, Phantasms of
the Living, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick registers 200 other examples in the Proceedings
of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XXXIII (19 22), and mentions 54 more
to which references are given.
i4 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
given in view of spiritual help, or in expectation of prayers
and Masses subsequently to be offered for the repose of the
departed soul.13 But the vast majority of the cases recorded
have no religious character of any kind. No one will now
maintain that religious apparitions are caused by angels,
who, as St. Thomas holds11 assume bodies “of compressed
air, shaped and colored, as we may see it in the clouds,” but
that the non-religious apparitions are all the work of devils.
Some explanation has to be found which will fit both types.
Père Mainage meets the difficulty by assuming the opera­
tion of what he calls “complex telepathy.” An impulse is
generated through concentration of mind upon an idea by
some agent at a distance, and in virtue of this impulse not
only is the idea communicated to the percipient (simple
telepathy), but it is sometimes accompanied by a vivid im­
pression, auditive, visual, or tactile, which the percipient re­
ceives at the same moment (complex telepathy). Moreover,
Père Mainage is prepared to admit a still further develop­
ment which corresponds with what is called by F. W. Myers
and others telekinesis. The eminent Dominican believes it to
be conceivable that there may be an actual transference of
matter from one place to another, and that this effect, though
rare, may possibly not transcend man’s natural powers. He
tells the well-known story of a mate at sea who sees a man
writing on a slate in the captain’s cabin. It is not the captain
or any of the crew. The captain is fetched, the man has dis­
appeared, but the slate remains with the message he has
written there: “ Steer to the northwest.” The direction is
” Cf. the Brompton Oratory case, when one of the Fathers, believing himself
to have been awakened in the middle of the night by another Father, whose
voice he clearly heard, and in whose room was the telephone, went to the
patient, who was in urgent need of the last sacraments, but found afterwards
that there had been no telephone call and that no one had come to his room.
uSumma, Pt. I, q. 5 1, art. 2, ad 3.
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES i5
obeyed, and the discovery is made of a vessel, in danger of
foundering after collision with an iceberg, on board of which
the mate recognises the man whom he saw writing on the
slate.15 The man in the sinking ship has projected, so to
speak, not only a visual image, but a certain kinetic energy.
Père Mainage considers that we have a parallel to this in a
telephone or a radio installation. The impulse transmitted
may be so transmuted by an adequate receiver as to leave a
physical record of itself in a permanent form. In this way
he is prepared to find a natural explanation of the manifesta­
tions in many haunted houses, of most Poltergeist phenom­
ena (where there is always a child or young person who is
the centre and real agent of the disturbance), of the telekin­
etic phenomena of such mediums as Eusapia Palladino, and
even of the materialisations of Marthe Béraud, alias Eva C. I
can only suggest that the acceptance of such a theory would
seem to require a revision of the whole conception of the mi­
raculous. Only a very slight extension of the same line of ar­
gument would be required to provide a non-supernatural in­
terpretation of those cures of organic disorders which are
allowed to rank in the Bureau des Constatations at Lourdes
or are accepted as a guarantee of the divine approval in the
canonization of saints. Still it is only fair to add that Père
Mainage does not dogmatize. He leaves his readers quite
free to adopt his speculations or to reject them, and, as al­
ready noticed, the point upon which he wisely lays most
stress is the narrow range of the “directive principles” to
which the Church stands committed in her official utterances.
If the question should be further asked why modern
critics, even among the clergy, seem so anxious to minimize
the influence of Satan in the phenomena of Spiritualism,
I think we should have to answer that not only do perfectly
“ Mainage, op. cit., pp. 125-154 .
i6 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
innocent manifestations, such as apparitions and appeals for
prayers, shade imperceptibly into those which are justly re­
garded with suspicion, but also that there are quite a num­
ber of cases on record where the guidance received through
automatic writing, and even through recognised mediums,
has proved beneficent and salutary. A very remarkable
example is the story of Mme. Mink Jullien as she herself
has recounted it in the little book not long since translated
into English.10 The lady and her husband, who held an
appointment in the Far East, were both of them agnostics.
The husband died, and the wife, in her utter misery, taking
up automatic writing, began, as she believed, to receive a
series of communications from the dead man. These after a
while took the form of urging her to seek peace in the bosom
of the Catholic Church. She complied, and, as Père Mainage,
who contributes a preface, attests, she has proved herself for
some years a most fervent and exemplary convert. The case
is not so uncommon as might be supposed. I have myself
known two excellent Catholics, one of them a nun, who
have had a similar experience, and some other examples will
be found, treated in more detail, later on in this volume.
No doubt Satan is very subtle and poses sometimes as an
angel of light, but these facts and other weighty considera­
tions of the same kind, seem to point to the conclusion that
the influences encountered in the practice of Spiritualism
are not all of them evil. I am myself inclined to believe that
there are really outside intelligences which communicate
(though such communications are invariably colored and
distorted by the subconscious beliefs of the medium or autom-
atist), and that these intelligences are often mocking or
freakish, often untruthful, sometimes brutal, licentious, and
“ The Ways of God; the Story of a Conversion, by Madame H. Mink Jullien
(London: 1925).
TH E CHURCH’S PRINCIPLES i7
malevolent, but not infrequently sincere and kindly. It is
easy to believe that Satan and his myrmidons are apt to take
a direct part in such intercourse, but there seems nothing to
exclude the possibility that the discarnate spirits of the un­
baptised,'or it may be, other intelligent beings whose exist­
ence has not been otherwise made known to us, also inter­
vene. All this, however, is mere conjecture. What we know
for certain is that the attempt to communicate with the un­
seen through spiritualistic practices is extremely dangerous
and that the Church in all ages has very wisely forbidden it.
And here, before we pass to another chapter, it may not
be out of place to quote the precise terms of the two decisions
of the Holy Office which more directly deal with the matter
now under discussion. The first decree has reference to the
practice of automatic writing and is dated March 30, 1898.
Question. “ Titius, while excluding from his purpose any compact
with the spirit of evil, is accustomed to evoke the souls of the dead.
His method is this: Being alone in his room, without any kind of
external ceremony, he prays to the leader of the heavenly hosts to
grant him the opportunity of conversing with the spirit of some
definite person. He waits for a little time and then he feels his hand
moved, and by this he learns the presence of the spirit. Then he ex­
plains what he wants to know and his hand writes the answers to
the questions proposed. All these answers are in accord with the Faith
and with the Church’s teaching regarding a future life. For the most
part such replies relate to the state of the soul of some dead person,
the need that it has of prayers, and complaints of the negligence of
its relatives. In the circumstances explained it is asked whether this
practice of Titius is permissible.”
To this the answer was returned: Uti exponitur non licere
(in the circumstances explained it is not permissible), and
the decision was ratified by His Holiness Pope Leo XIII.17
Some twenty years later, in a full assembly of the Congre-
17See the Analecta Ecclesiastica, Voi. VI, p. 187.
i8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
gation of the Holy Office, the following dubium was pro­
pounded :
Question. “ Is it lawful by means of a medium, or without a me­
dium, whether hypnotism be employed or not, to take part in any
sort of spiritistic communications or manifestations, even such as
present an appearance of sincerity and piety, either by questioning
the souls or spirits, or by listening to the answers received, or merely
by looking on, even with a silent or explicit protest that one has no
wish to have anything to do with evil spirits.
“ The most Eminent and Reverend Fathers decided that in every
one of these suppositions the answer must be in the negative.”
This decree was ratified on April 26, 1917, by His Holi­
ness Pope Benedict X V .18
It is not very likely that the members of the Congregation
of the Holy Office had made any profound researches into
the history of Spiritualism. They probably based their deci­
sion upon theological considerations alone. But if they had
troubled themselves to investigate the origins and early de­
velopments of the movement, they would have found much
to confirm their attitude of distrust. As a source of guidance
the first communicating spirits had brought no blessing up­
on their votaries but only dire calamity. Let us turn, there­
fore, to this strangely sinister portent of so much that was
to follow. This is an aspect of the case which must not be
left out of account in any statement of the Catholic position.
uActa Apostolica Scdis, Voi. IX, p. 268.
C h a p t e r II
T H E FO UNDERS OF M ODERN SPIRITU A LISM 1
T h e r e can be no doubt that, like other newfangled creeds
which have survived for half a century or more and have at­
tracted a considerable following, Spiritualism counts among
its associates many well-meaning people whose lives are free
from reproach. I have personally come into contact with
many such, just as I have known some estimable Christian
Scientists and perfectly sincere Theosophists. Ever since a
large part of the world drifted from its religious moorings
under stress of the Reformation, an ever-increasing number
of earnest men and women, striving to find an anchorage
for their aspirations after God and a future life, have at­
tached themselves to almost any system which offered some
half truth lending itself readily to experimental trial. Chris­
tian Science makes its main appeal to the healing of disease;
Theosophy to the doctrine of Karma which professes to ex­
plain the mystery of human suffering; Spiritualism bases its
claim upon certain psychic phenomena which, as I venture
to hold, are real in some cases, though often fraudulent, and
which down to our own times have never been adequately
investigated. People who are groping for any religious hold­
fast take no interest, as a rule, in the past history of these
movements. They only want a prescription which will as­
suage some sort of dull ache in their souls; while often enough
in the mere effort to comply with certain outward observ­
ances or to imbibe a teaching which is rather beyond their
JLest I should seem to have borrowed other people’s materials without ac­
knowledgment, it may be noted that the substance of this chapter was printed
in The Month for February, 1920.
19
20 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
powers of apprehension they find a measure of relief which
contents them. There are very few Christian Scientists who
are acquainted with the real facts of the life of Mrs. Eddy
as they are set out irrefutably in the biographies by Georgine
Milmine or E. F. Dakin. There are hardly any Theosophists
who can be persuaded to look into the history of the The-
osophical Society, an organization built up by Madame
Blavatsky out of the debris of her own career as a spiritualist
and out of Col. Olcott’s abortive “Miracle Club.” In like man­
ner, most of the adherents of the movement with which we
are here concerned find a sufficient guarantee of respectabil­
ity in the support of such representatives as Sir Oliver Lodge
and the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and do not care to
trouble themselves about its origin. These two protagonists
may be men of the highest repute — just as were Judge Ed­
monds, Professor R. Hare, and Mr. Robert Dale Owen in
the middle of the nineteenth century — but the advent of
the “New Revelation” cannot be dated from the afternoon
in September, 1915, when Lady Lodge went to see Mrs.
Osborne Leonard in the hopes of getting into touch with
her dead son Raymond. Spiritualism already had a long and
rather grim history behind it. Mrs. Leonard is, no doubt, a
medium whose honesty is above suspicion,2 but there have
been hundreds of practitioners before her, from Margaretta
and Katie Fox down to Eusapia Palladino, whose records
are by no means so satisfactory. We cannot pass judgment
upon the system merely from the communications alleged to
have been made through approved mediums during the past
twenty years. It is to the tendency of the cult as a whole that
’See the very interesting paper by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge in
Part 78, of the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, p. 343. The
detective agency used found nothing suggestive of trickery on the part of Mrs.
Leonard.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 21
appeal must primarily be made, and least of all can we afford
to neglect the sad lesson taught by the career of its actual
founders. For this reason I propose, in the present chapter, to
give an account of some features in their history — a history
which has attracted too little attention. Those enthusiasts who
see something providential and divine in the movement, may
surely be called upon to offer an explanation of the fact that
the powers which guided it were so singularly unfortunate
in their selection of the instruments through which this
heavenly message was first made known to the world.
On March 31, 1920, a widely advertised meeting was held
in the Queen’s Hall, London, to commemorate the anniver­
sary of the birth of Modern Spiritualism. Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle, an old schoolfellow of mine, as a sequel to a short
controversial correspondence I had had with him just then,
was kind enough to send me a ticket. He was himself the
principal speaker, and I heard him tell a crowded audience
that they were there that evening “to celebrate the seventy-
second anniversary of what spiritualists considered to be the
greatest event which had occurred in the world for two thou­
sand years.” He did not hesitate to proclaim that the move­
ment began with the manifestations at Hydesville in Wayne
County, New York, in which the two Fox sisters played a
principal part. Margaretta Fox was then (March, 1848) 14
or 15 years old, and her sister Katie 12.3 Inexplicable noises
and rappings, it is said, had been heard for some time in the
farmhouse occupied by the family, and one night Margaretta
Fox, snapping her fingers a certain number of times, chal­
lenged the powers which produced these sounds to reply by
“There is some discrepancy in different books regarding the ages of the chil­
dren. I follow the statement of their mother, Mrs. Fox, as cited by H. Spicer,
Sights and Sounds (London: 1853), pp. 57-58. With this, Mr. Podmore’s account
agrees, and also that of Sir A. C. Doyle.
22 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
making the same number of raps. This was done. Then
their mother, Mrs. Fox, who was present, asked the spirit
to give by raps, first of all the number of her children (only
the two youngest girls were actually living in the house),
and afterwards their respective ages. To all these questions
correct answers were returned. After some further experi­
ments of the same sort on different occasions in which the
neighbours participated, it occurred to someone to try to as­
certain the name of the rapping spirit; this he did by calling
out the letters of the alphabet in turn and requesting that a
rap should be given at the proper letter. In this way the name
“ Charles B. Rosna” was spelled out and a basis for further
communications was established.4 It is quite unnecessary to
describe in detail the developments of this new system of
spiritual telegraphy. Great excitement was caused in the
neighbourhood, and when the family a few months later
moved to Rochester, the rappings followed them there. Gos­
sip and the newspapers spread the report of these occurrences
far and wide. Other curious persons soon began to try to put
themselves in communication with the spirits, notably Leah,
a much older sister of the Fox children, who was married
to a man named Fish. It was she, we are told, who first dis­
covered that there was money in the business, but though
numbers of people strove to develop mediumistic powers,
the two younger Fox sisters remained for a long time by far
^ h e spirit who communicated and was responsible for the knockings purported
to be that of a peddler who had been murdered by some previous occupant of
the house and had been buried in the cellar. See Sir A. C. Doyle's article in
Psychic Science, Vol. I (1922), pp. 212-237, entitled “ The Mystery of the Three
Fox Sisters.” I confess that I am not satisfied with the evidence for the discovery
of the remains of the murdered man. Some traces were said to have been found
at the time in 1848, and an almost complete skeleton in 1904. The point is
irrelevant to the present discussion. What is certain is that when the Fox chil­
dren, almost immediately afterwards, removed to Rochester, their repose con­
tinued to be disturbed by manifestations of a most alarming and turbulent char­
acter. See the long account given in their elder sister’s book, The Missing Link
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 23
the most successful of the practitioners in this line, and very
soon all sorts of other phenomena manifested themselves in
their presence in addition to the rappings. Writing in 1854,
by which time Spiritualism as a cult had become familiar
in every part of the United States, and was rapidly spreading
over Europe, Mr. Capron remarks:
“ During the six years that have elapsed since the commencement
of the manifestations at Hydesville, there have been few more sin­
gular, and no more convincing proofs of the agency of spirits than
were given to the family of Mr. Fox. Almost every variety of the
phenomena that have startled the world since that time was known
to them long before the public were made aware of the existence of
such strange occurrences. They have had all the variety of sounds,
speaking in an audible voice, moving of furniture, touching and
writing by the spirits. Blocks of wood were thrown into the windows
when they were open, with important directions written upon them.
Information was given to the family which was of essential benefit,
by writing on the floor of a room where it was known that no living
visible person had been.” 5
The rapidity with which the craze spread almost passes
belief. Judge Edmonds, a man of unimpeachable integrity,
who had occupied the highest judicial position in the United
States, became an early convert. He himself had spiritual
visions, in which he saw spirit forms as clearly as the objects
he beheld with his bodily eyes; endless communications were
made to him in automatic script which purported to em­
anate from Francis Bacon, Swedenborg, Benjamin Franklin,
and other celebrities of the past; his daughter developed
mediumistic powers, and in her trances is said to have spo­
ken in half a dozen different languages which she had never
learned. Now, Judge Edmonds, after travelling in every part
of the States to lecture to his fellow spiritualists, seriously
computed that already in 1854 the followers of the move-
“Capron, Modern Spiritualism, Its Facts and Fanaticisms (18 55), p. 55.
24 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
ment in America numbered as many as 3,000,000. Two years
earlier, Mr. H. Spicer, an Englishman, after a visit to the
States, had brought back word that there were 30,000 me­
diums there, asserting in particular that there were 300
“ magnetic circles,” i.e., reunions of spiritualists, in the one
city of Philadelphia. While we cannot fail to regard these
estimates as greatly exaggerated,0 they bear witness beyond
doubt to a development which was felt to be quite phenom­
enal. So far as I have been able to discover, the fact that this
prodigious excitement was subsequent to, and set in motion
by, the experiences of the Fox sisters at Hydesville, is ques­
tioned by no one, though they themselves were gravely sus­
pected of fraud by the more sceptical.
Upon the findings of the committee of doctors in Buffalo,
who inquired into the rapping phenomena of the Fox
family as early as February, 1851,1do not propose to dwell.
They came to the very definite conclusion that the girls pro­
duced the noises themselves by cracking their knee joints,
but they did not exclude the possibility of other articulations,
for example, those of the toes or the ankles, being used in
the same way. The report may be read in Podmore,7 and as
a carefully reasoned argument it is certainly damaging to
the credit of the parties suspected. A few weeks later a cer­
tain Mrs. Culver, a connection of the Fox family, volunteered
a statement, published in the New Yor\ Herald, in which
she declared that Katie Fox had accepted her proferred as­
sistance and shown her how to produce the raps by cracking
her toes. Mrs. Culver averred that she had acquired some
“These figures were challenged by other spiritualists but Judge Edmonds de­
fended them warmly. In 1866 he held that there were 5,000,000 believers in the
United States, i.e., one sixth of the total population. See The Spiritual Magazine,
1867, p. 328 and cf., p. 159.
''Modern Spiritualism, I, p. 184. See also Mrs. Henry Sidgwick in the Proceed­
ings of the S.P.R., Vol. IV, p. 47.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 25
dexterity in the business, but was too old to rival the per­
formances of those who had learned it in early youth. A
considerable discussion followed in the newspapers, the spir­
itualists replying with vigour, but it is at any rate clear that
an attitude of credulity was by no means universally prev­
alent. More than a year before the investigation of the
Buffalo doctors (i.e., in February, 1850), an English traveller
who visited the Fox girls at Rochester, wrote to Mr. Epes
Sargent:
“ My opinion of the rappings is that they are human, very human,
sinfully human, made to get money by. If really there is a ghost in
the matter, then quite certainly he is very fickle, something of a liar,
very clumsy, very trifling, and altogether wanting in good taste. It
would indeed be very painful to me, exceedingly, if I thought that
any man on this earth, on dying, had ever turned into such a paltry,
contemptible ghost. . . . My experience will be useful to me in regard
to superstition as a disease of the human mind. I have learned some­
thing from the errand I have been on. But to me the knockings them­
selves are not nearly so wonderful as the echoes they make in the
city of New York.” 8
The curious thing is that the writer of this letter (a Mr.
W. M., only initials are given), became at a later date a con­
vinced believer in Spiritualism. Be this as it may, it is cer­
tain that the movement was not decisively checked or re­
tarded by the criticism of which the Fox sisters were the
object. Though, as we shall see later, Margaretta (afterwards
Mrs. Kane), gave no seances from about 1856 to 1867, her
sister Katie (Mrs. Jencken) was always engrossed in her
mediumship, and it may be said roughly that for thirty
years or more the two were looked upon as among the most
highly gifted of the mediumistic fraternity. But in October,
1888, when the sisters were already something more than
middle-aged, an astounding event happened. For several
'Epes Sargent, Planchette, or the Despair of Science (Boston: 1869), p. 34.
2Ô TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
weeks rumours had been rife that an exposure of the frauds
of Spiritualism was imminent. Mrs. Margaretta Fox Kane,
arriving in New York from Europe, manifested to an in­
terviewer her intention of showing up the whole business.
She had had, it would seem, a bitter quarrel with her elder
sister, Mrs. Leah Underhill (formerly Fish), who not very
long before had published a book, The Missing Lin\ in
Modern Spiritualism (New York, 1885). This purported to
tell the history of those early manifestations at Hydesville
and Rochester in which the three sisters had been concerned,
but I do not know whether this was the cause of the quarrel.
In any case, the interview with Mrs. Kane, reported in the
New Yorf{ Herald for September 24, 1888, included the
following details:
“ Since you now despise Spiritualism, how was it you were engaged
in it so long?” I asked.
“ Another sister of mine,” and she coupled the name with an in­
jurious adjective, “ made me take up with it. She’s my damnable
enemy.9 I hate her. My God! I’d poison her! No I wouldn’t, but I’ll
lash her with my tongue. She was 23 years old the day I was born.
I was an aunt seven years before I was born. Ha! H a!”
As the language itself shows, Mrs. Kane was in a very
excited state, and declared tragically that she would have
thrown herself overboard on the journey, if she had not
been prevented by the captain and the doctor. Then she
resumed :
“Yes, I am going to expose Spiritualism from its very foundations.
I have had the idea in my head for many a year, but I have never
come to a determination before. . . . I loath the thing I have been.
As I used to say to those who wanted me to give a séance: ‘You are
driving me to hell.’ Then the next day I would drown my remorse
"It is only fair to note that Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten in The Unseen Uni­
verse (September, 1892, p. 302), while writing sympathetically about the sisters
Margaretta and Katie, describes Mrs. Leah Underhill as “ one of the most generous
and noble of women.” Mrs. Britten had known them all intimately.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 27
in wine. I was too honest to remain a medium. That’s why I gave
up my exhibitions.
“ When Spiritualism first began, Kate and I were little children,
and this old woman, my other sister, made us her tools. Mother was
a silly woman. She was a fanatic. I call her that because she was
honest. She believed in these things. Spiritualism started from just
nothing. . . . Our sister used us in her exhibitions and we made
money for her.
“ Dr. Kane found me when I was leading this life.” The woman’s
voice trembled just here and she nearly broke down. “ I was only 13
when he took me out of it and placed me at school. I was educated
in Philadelphia. When I was 16 years old, he returned from the
Arctic and we were married.”
The interview ended by a demonstration of how the rap-
pings could be produced — so at least the reporter believed
— by cracking the toes. On October 9, the youngest sister,
Katie (Mrs. Jencken), also a widow, arrived from Europe.
She likewise accorded an interview to the representative of
the New Yor/{ Herald and expressed her intention of tak­
ing part in the exposure projected by Mrs. Kane:
“ I regard Spiritualism [she said] as one of the greatest curses
that the world has ever known. . . . The worst of them all (the Spir­
itualists) is my eldest sister Leah, the wife of Daniel Underhill. I
think she was the one who caused my arrest last spring and the
bringing of the preposterous charge that I was cruel to my children
and neglectful of them. I don’t know why it is, she has always been
jealous of Maggie and me; I suppose because we could do things in
Spiritualism that she couldn’t.”
On October 21, a great meeting took place at New York
in the large hall known as the Academy of Music. A certain
Dr. Richmond, skillful in sleight of hand, imitated success­
fully the slate-writing and thought-reading phenomena of
the seance room. Then Mrs. Margaretta Fox Kane stood up
and, in her sister’s presence, read a short speech, the most
striking utterances of which run as follows:
“ That I have been chiefly instrumental in perpetrating the fraud
28 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
of Spiritualism upon a too-confiding public, most of you doubtless
know.
“The greatest sorrow in my life has been that this is true, and
though it has come late in my day, I am now prepared to tell the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God! . . .
“ I am here tonight as one of the founders of Spiritualism to de­
nounce it as an absolute falsehood from beginning to end, as the
flimsiest of superstitions, the most wicked blasphemy known to the
world.” 10
I have verified these facts by looking up the account given
of the meeting in the New Yor/{ Herald and the New Yor^
Daily Tribune for the next day, October 22. The New Yor\
Herald begins its article as follows:
“ By throwing life and enthusiasm into her big toe Mrs. Margaret
Fox Kane produced loud spirit-rapping in the Academy of Music
last night and dealt a death-blow to Spiritualism, that huge and
world-wide fraud which she and her sister Katie founded in 1848.
Both sisters were present and both denounced Spiritualism as a mon­
strous imposition and a cheat.
“ The great building was crowded and the wildest excitement pre­
vailed at times. Hundreds of spiritualists had come to see the orig­
inators of their faith destroy it at one stroke. They were greatly
agitated at times and hissed fiercely. Take it all in all, it was a most
remarkable and dramatic spectacle.”
A practical demonstration of the rappings followed Mrs.
Kane’s speech. The same reporter thus describes the scene:
“There was a dead silence. Everybody in the great audience knew
that they were looking upon the woman who is principally respon­
sible for Spiritualism, its foundress, high-priestess, and demonstrator.
She stood upon a little pine table with nothing on her feet but stock­
ings. As she remained motionless, loud distinct rappings were heard,
now in the flies, now behind the scenes, now in the gallery.”
The reporter of the New Yor^ Daily Tribune does not
appear to have been quite so favourably impressed by Mrs.
Kane’s share in the performance. He describes her as “ highly
excited” and says that she “ delivered her written address in
10R. B. Davenport, The Deathblow to Spiritualism (New York: 1888), p. 76.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 29
a fragmentary and mirth-provoking style.” Of the rapping
demonstration he tells us: “she had slipped off a shoe to
facilitate this scientific investigation and, putting her stock­
inged foot on the board, the audience heard a series of raps,
‘rat-tat-tat-tat-tat,’ increasing in sound from faint to loud
and apparently traveling up the wall and along the roof of
the Academy.”
The Herald report is less critical, and it continues:
“ Upon these rappings Spiritualism sprang into life, and here was
the same toe rapping it out of existence. Mrs. Kane became excited.
She clapped her hands, danced about and cried:
“ ‘It’s all a fraud! Spiritualism is a fraud from beginning to end!
It’s all a trick. There’s no truth in it!’
“ A whirlwind of applause followed.”
Rather more than a year later, at the house of Henry J.
Newton, a prominent spiritualist in New York, Mrs. Mar-
garetta Fox Kane, in the presence of a reporter and wit­
nesses, made a formal recantation of her previous confession:
“ Would to God,” she said, in a voice which trembled with intense
excitement, “ that I could undo the injustice I did the cause of Spir­
itualism when, under the strong psychological influence of persons
inimical to it, I gave expression to utterances that had no foundation
in fact.”
At a further stage in the interview we have the following
dialogue:
“ Was there any truth in the charges you made against Spiritual­
ism?”
“ Those charges were false in every particular. I have no hesitation
in saying that.”
“ Won’t you name any of those who were instrumental in causing
you to make such sweeping charges against the methods of ‘your
people’ ?”
“ I do not wish to just now. But I will mention that persons high
in the Catholic Church did their best to have me enter a convent.” 11
"Probably some such institution for inebriates as St. Veronica’s Retreat, then
existing at Chiswick.
l l
3
0 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
“ Was the offer made to you by anyone in this country?”
“ No; in London. I had a letter from Cardinal Manning advising
me to abandon this ‘wicked work of the devil.’ ” 12
It is worthy of notice that Mrs. Jencken, in a letter to
Light, had already in some sort repudiated her share in the
“exposure” at the Academy of Music. She died of drink in
June, 1892, and Mrs. Kane, the last survivor of the Fox sisters,
followed her, in March, 1893. Her end was pitiable and
tragic. Witness the following;
“ The tenement house of No. 456 West 57th Street, New York, is
deserted now, except one room, from cellar to roof. The room is oc­
cupied by a woman nearly 60 years of age, an object of charity, a
mental and physical wreck, whose appetite is only for intoxicating
liquors. The face, though marked by age and dissipation, shows un­
mistakably that the woman was once beautiful.
“This wreck of womankind has been a guest in palaces and courts.
The powers of mind, now almost imbecile, were the wonder and
study of scientific men in America, Europe, and Australia. Her name
was eulogized, sung, and ridiculed in a dozen languages. The lips
that utter little else now than profanity once promulgated the doc­
trine of a new religion which still numbers its tens of thousands of
enthusiastic believers.” 13
Postponing, for the moment, further comment on this in­
finitely sad history, the question naturally suggests itself:
Which are we to believe of the two apparently contradictory
statements recorded above P Is trust to be placed in the con­
fession of fraud, or in the retraction of that confession a
twelvemonth afterwards? Though it may seem a paradox-
’T h is account, with facsimile of signatures of Mrs. Kane and witnesses, ap-
pears in The Medium and Daybreak., December 27, 1889, copied from The
Celestial City, a New York spiritualist journal. Cf. Light, December 20, 1889,
p. 614.
11Washington Daily Star, March 7, 1893, quoted in The Medium and Day-
break, April 7, 1893, p. 212.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 31
ical conclusion, my own inclination is to answer: “In both.”
There is, no doubt, reason to believe that Mrs. Kane told
the truth when she averred that the whole of Spiritualism,
as she knew it, was contaminated by imposture. But she also
told the truth when she admitted that she had lied in ascrib­
ing to trickery all the phenomena that occurred. Spiritualism
was not all fraud. Genuine manifestations often took place
under favourable conditions, but they could not always be
evoked at will, and when the spirits were recalcitrant, re­
course was had to fraud to supply what was needed.
That there may have been some element of trickery in the
séances of the Fox sisters seems to be altogether probable.
The fact that Mrs. Kane, when over 50 years of age, should
still possess the power of producing a storm of raps, ap­
parently by cracking her toe joints, would point to long
practise, and however much we may discount the confession
of a confirmed inebriate, influenced by vindictive motives,
the report of the Buffalo doctors, the story told by Mrs.
Culver, and the findings of the later Seybert Commission,
point in the same direction. But there is more than this. The
one redeeming feature in the career of Margaretta Fox a
pathetic incident in itself, is the story of her relations with
Dr. Elisha Kane, the Arctic explorer. By the testimony of
all who knew him, Kane was a fine character, clean-living,
enthusiastic, courageous to a fault, honourable, and tender­
hearted. He first saw Margaretta when he was one day led
by curiosity to attend one of the séances given by the Fox
sisters, and her beauty and childlike simplicity seem to have
made a strong appeal to him. He sought her acquaintance,
and for a while succeeded in withdrawing her from her con­
taminating surroundings and paid for her education in Phila­
delphia. His own family, who belonged to a rather exclusive
New York set, were much opposed to this attachment, but
32 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
eventually a secret marriage took place. Very shortly after­
wards, in 1857, Kane fell ill, was sent to Havana for a cure,
and died there without seeing his wife again. In due course
a rather elaborate biography of Dr. Kane was published,
which, while celebrating his achievements as a man and an
explorer, completely ignored the whole of his relations with
Margaretta Fox. In self-defence she, deeply hurt, sanctioned
the issue of a volume entitled The Love-Life of Dr. Kane,
which was compiled almost entirely from the letters he had
addressed to her. At this time she had become a Catholic,
and had given up Spiritualism. Hence, no attempt was made
to disguise the earnestness with which he had constantly
pleaded with her to have nothing more to do with the
séances. Passages such as the following occur repeatedly:
“Oh, Maggie, are you never tired of this weary, weary sameness
of continual deceit? Are you doomed thus to spend your days,
doomed never to rise to better things?”
Or again:
“ Don’t rap for Mrs. Pierce (Mrs. Pierce was the wife of the then
President of the United States). Remember your promise to me. . . .
Begin again, dearest Maggie, and keep your word. No rapping for
Mrs. Pierce, or ever more for anyone. I, dear Meg, am your best,
your truest, your only friend.”
Or once more:
“ Do avoid spirits. I cannot bear to think of you as engaged in a
course of wickedness and deception. Maggie you have no friend but
me whose interest in you is disconnected from this cursed rapping.
Pardon my saying so; but is it not deceit even to listen when others
are deceived?” 14
The references to the subject, always in the same tone, con­
tained in Dr. Kane’s letters, are far too numerous to quote.
He even touched upon it in the verses he occasionally wrote
to his beloved over the half-playful signature of “Preacher.”
Here is one brief extract:
uThe Love-Life of Dr. Kane (New York: 1866), pp. 105, 114 , 201.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 33
Then the maiden sat and wept,
Her hand upon her brow;
So long this secret have I kept,
I can’t foreswear it now.
It festers in my bosom,
It cankers in my heart,
Thrice cursed is the slave fast chained
To a deceitful art.15
Taking the whole body of letters and documents printed
in The Love-Life of Dr. Kane, it seems to me impossible
that he would have written as frankly as he did except on
the supposition that his fiancée had confessed to him the
deceptions involved in the life she was leading. At what
date the habits of intemperance, which in the end so fatally
overshadowed the closing years of both sisters, first began
to manifest themselves I am unable to say. It is only fair to
point out that their father was apparently a victim to the
same deplorable weakness, but the surroundings of the
séance room must surely have had the worst effect on char­
acter, and it was no doubt because Dr. Kane saw Margaret-
ta’s need of some clear rule of life and strong religious in­
fluence that he, though a Protestant himself, encouraged her
to join the Catholic Church. The fact is chronicled by the
work just quoted, in a passage which betrays, quaintly
enough, the writer’s unfamiliarity with the ceremony of
baptism :
“ In August, 1858, she became a member of the Roman Catholic
Church. Dr. Kane had often advised her to join this Church, and
many times had accompanied her to Vespers at St. Anne’s in Eighth
Street, New York. The ceremony of her baptism at St. Peter’s Church
in Barclay Street, New York, was new in this country, and was at­
tended by a large assemblage. The lady was attired in white and was
accompanied by her sponsors, her father and mother, and her young­
est sister. The priest made the sign of the cross upon the candidate’s
'sLove-Ltfe of Dr. Kane, p. 40.
t
34 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
forehead, ears, eyes, nose and mouth, breast and shoulders, repeating
appropriate words in Latin. She was anointed with the holy oils and
introduced into the Church by receiving the stole, a long white veil
reaching to the ground, and a burning light, emblematic of the faith.
The occasion was the Feast of the Assumption, and the church and
altar were decorated, the statue of the Virgin being covered with
flowers.” 10
In one of the New York papers which mentioned this
ceremony the following description is given of the new
convert:
“ She is a very interesting and lovely young lady and is very young.
She has large dark Madonna eyes, a sweet expressive mouth, a petite
and delicately moulded form, and a regal carriage of the head with
an aristocratic air quite uncommon.”
Mrs. Kane’s break with Spiritualism seems, with occa­
sional lapses, to have lasted for nearly ten years, but then,
alas! she completely succumbed either to the solicitations ad­
dressed to her, or to the pinch of what was at least relative
poverty. In the London Spiritual Magazine for July, 1867, we
find it recorded that Margaretta Fox, who “embraced the
Roman Catholic faith, and from religious motives, as it was
thought, renounced Spiritualism,” had again been associated
with these manifestations. As the same journal states, “after
her medium powers have been held in abeyance for so many
years, she has at last been pressed by the spirits into their
service at the very town of Rochester where she was first
developed, and is now once again before the world as Mrs.
Margaretta Fox Kane, with undiminished powers, as a spirit-
medium.” From this date, although in the service of Mr.
Henry Seybert, the spiritualist, she was provided with an
ample salary, she seems to have sunk steadily downward un­
til the climax was reached which has already been described.
Some of her fellow spiritualists drew harsh lessons from her
”Ibidp. 284.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 35
sad history. For example, Mr. James Burns, the editor of
The Medium, wrote as follows after her death was an­
nounced:
“ Mrs. Kane, it has been made to appear, had intercourse with the
Romanists, who prevailed on her to state that her mediumship was
false and that Spiritualism had been her ruin. . . .
“ Here we have a wonderful twofold spiritual spectacle; we have
a woman giving spiritual manifestations to others, while within her­
self she is spiritually lost and misdirected. All moral sense, and con­
trol of mind and desire were gone. . . .
“ But when the medium makes a trade of it and puffs the thing
up as a commodity for sale, then farewell to all that might elevate
or instruct in the subject. . . . Under such circumstances, and with
drunkenness, sensuality and moral abasement of all kinds added, is
it any wonder that this kind of thing has covered the cause with
scandals and left a heap of festering corpses along the course of these
45 years?” 17
Mr. James Burns, as editor and publisher, was a pillar of
English Spiritualism, and the strength of this language
would suggest that the past record of the movement, better
known to him than to most others, did not seem a matter
for unmixed satisfaction.
I have said that, while fully admitting the part played by
trickery in the exhibitions of the Fox sisters, I also believe
in the authenticity of a good deal of the rapping phenomena.
In arriving at this conclusion no argument impresses me
more than the marvellously rapid spread of the movement.
Of the many hundreds, not to say thousands, of mediums
who within three or four years were developed in the United
States, it is inconceivable that all were rapping with their
toes or adopting some similar fraudulent device. If that were
all the mystery, there would at least have been a fair propor­
tion of them, who having found out that they could perform
the silly trick, would have grown bored, and would, as I
1TJames Burns, in The Medium and Daybreak,London, April 28, 1893, p. 258.
36 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
have remarked before, have found it easier to earn money
by exposing the procedure than by seeking out dupes who
believed in it. A craze like this requires some foundation in
fact, some real mystery, to set people speculating and to
keep them interested. Anyone who can believe that the
whole movement, involving, to say the very least, tens of
thousands of people, some of them men of high intellectual
eminence, was based on nothing better than a mere chil­
dren’s prank, seems to me to show a lack of practical judg­
ment and common sense. Supposing, as Faraday claimed to
have proved, that table-turning may be accounted for by un­
conscious muscular action, it is easy to understand that many
who practised such experiments must have believed in good
faith that the tables were turned by the spirits. The me­
diums, or those who thought they were mediums, may
themselves have been deluded. But with rappings which
were due to trickery, such self-deception was impossible.
People who rapped with their toes or their knee joints must
have known that they did it. No circle which assembled
could have obtained any raps at all except in the presence
of some fraudulent persons who had acquired by long prac­
tice the rather difficult art of producing them. Under these
conditions I cannot account for the fascination of the craze,
its rapid extension and relative permanence.
Moreover, apart from more general considerations, one
has the evidence of the facts. Persons known to me, sitting
as novices to experiment out of mere curiousity, without a
medium, have obtained raps at their very first trial. In Dr.
W. Crawford’s seances with Miss Kathleen Goligher, an
unpaid medium, which were said to be conducted under
strict test conditions, knocks of every description were heard,
and served as means of communication. Sir William Barrett,
F.R.S., who assisted at some of these sittings, describes how,
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 37
when a loud knock was given and a request was made for
something still louder, “there came a tremendous bang
which shook the room and resembled the blow of a sledge
hammer on an anvil.” 18 This could hardly have been due
to the cracking of Miss Goligher’s joints, then a girl of
seventeen. The late Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., in his presiden­
tial address, at which I was myself present in 1919, told the
Society for Psychical Research how Mrs. Jencken (Katie
Fox), when staying in his own house in 1874, though re­
maining motionless and in a good light, produced from the
door “ loud thumps such as one would hardly like to make
with one’s knee.” 19 The amount of first-rate scientific evi­
dence for phenomena of this kind seems to me quite over­
whelming, and if these things can happen now, there is no
intrinsic reason why the Fox girls should not, at least occa­
sionally, have been similarly favoured in the early days at
Hydesville and Rochester.
But however the case may be regarding the reality of the
rappings from which modern Spiritualism sprang into be­
ing, the moral degradation of Margaretta and Katie Fox
stands revealed for all time. If the confession of 1888 is
worthy of credit, the whole edifice of Spiritualism has been
reared upon systematic imposture. If, on the other hand, we
are rather to trust their subsequent retraction, they have
thereby convicted themselves of the basest ingratitude to
their spiritualist benefactors and of a blasphemously solemn
appeal to God to witness to a lie.
“ Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XX, p. 335, 1919.
Mr. Whately Smith, who was present on other occasions, similarly speaks of
“ sledge-hammer blows which shook the whole floor.” Ibid., p. 314. Here and
elsewhere I quote Sir William Barrett because I knew him well, and, like all
others who were acquainted with him, am convinced of his absolute sincerity,
as well as of his alertness and accuracy as an observer.
” I b i d p. 280.
38 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
At the same time I should be sorry to speak unsympathet­
ically of the sad career of these two so-called Founders of
Spiritualism. Few priests can fail to have met cases in which
a most generous and attractive character has been pitiably
transformed by the subtle virus of alcoholism, and it is often
very hard to decide how far the poor victims are responsible
for what they do. It was not only Dr. Elisha Kane who paid
tribute to the charm of the Fox sisters. Mr. Horace Greeley,
the well-known editor of the New York, Tribune and a
statesman of rare breadth of view, remained their cordial
friend for several years and tried his best to rescue them
from their surroundings. What is more surprising, Orestes
A. Brownson, in his curious causerie, half novel, half dis­
sertation, entitled The Spirit Rapper (1854), speaks of the
two girls in the most appreciative terms.
“ I owe it [he declares] to them and to the public to say, that they
were simple-minded honest girls, utterly incapable of inventing any­
thing like those knockings, or of playing any trick upon the public.
The knockings were and are as much a mystery for them as for
others, and they honestly believe that through them actual commu­
nication is held with the spirits of the departed. They are in good
faith, as they some time since evinced by their wish to become mem­
bers of the Catholic Church, which certainly they would not have
wished, in this country at least, if they looked upon themselves as
impostors, and had only worldly and selfish ends in view. They are
no doubt deceived, not as to the facts, as to the phenomena of spirit
rappings, but as to the explanation they give or attempt to give of
them. They have not always been treated, I fear, with due tender­
ness, and sufficient pains have not been taken to enlighten them as
to the real nature of these phenomena.” 20
This statement, first printed in the autumn of 1854, that
both sisters had leanings towards Catholicism is in many
ways remarkable. It certainly must have been founded on
xThe Work.s of Orestes A. Brownson, collected and arranged by H. F. Brown-
son. Vol. IX, p. 81.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 39
some definite piece of information, for at that date the two
Fox girls were quite public characters in American life, and
a highly respected and representative Catholic, such as
Brownson was, could not afford to print a mere surmise
without imminent risk of finding himself ignominiously
confuted by one of their many admirers. As stated above,
Margaretta Fox Kane did not actually join the Catholic
Church until August, 1858, four years after the appearance
of the work just quoted; while Katie Fox, so far as I am
aware, never became Catholic at all. Margaretta seems to
have persevered in some sort of profession of Catholicism
for about ten years, but even at that time she cannot have
been entirely faithful in her renunciation of spiritualistic
practices, for R. Dale Owen, in his book The Debatable
Land, mentions that on October 25, i860, she took part with
her sister Kate in a séance at which he was present — a sit­
ting which was marked by a blow of quite terrific violence
striking, as it seemed, the centre of the table. “ By the sound,”
he declares, “ it was such a stroke, apparently delivered by a
strong man with a heavy bludgeon, as would have killed
anyone.” Phenomena of this kind seem to have been char­
acteristic of the mediumship of Margaretta Fox. In a foot­
note, Mr. Owen observes that this was “ the only time, I be­
lieve, at which she joined our circle. Having become a Cath­
olic, she had scruples about sitting.” 21
There was undoubtedly something exceptional in the
knocks produced under the mediumship of Mrs. Fox Kane,
and her sister seems to have possessed the same power of
originating violent percussive noises apparently at will. Was
this due to the action of subservient spirits, who obeyed their
behests, or was it, as has been suggested, a faculty inherent
in themselves of projecting etheric or teleplasmic rods, in-
” R. Dale Owen, The Debatable Land (London, 18 7 1), pp. 275—
276.
4
0 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
visible to normal sight but in some degree under the me­
dium’s control ? Apparently the knockings were, as Brown-
son says, “as much a mystery for them as they were for
others.” They did not know how they produced them, and
this may possibly account for the submissiveness with which
Margaretta bore with her fïancé’s reproaches of deception.
She let people think that the spirits were knocking, where­
as she was at least vaguely conscious that the force came
from something inside herself. I agree with Sir A. C. Doyle
that the matter is shrouded in mystery. At the same time it
is very difficult to resist the evidence that raps, thuds, or
crashes did occur, and occurred not merely in the darkness,
but in full light, at times when every movement of the me­
dium could be observed. Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., who
was not then a spiritualist, but who believed in what he and
Sergeant Cox called “psychic force,” wrote very emphatically
upon the subject. After stating that sounds or raps are no­
ticed with almost every medium, each having a special pecu­
liarity, he goes on:
“ But for power and certainty I have met with no one who at all
approached Miss Kate Fox. For several months I enjoyed almost
unlimited opportunity of testing the various phenomena occurring
in the presence of this lady, and I especially examined the phenom­
ena of these sounds. With mediums generally, it is necessary to sit
for a formal séance before anything is heard; but in the case of Miss
Fox it seems only necessary for her to place her hand on any sub­
stance for loud thuds to be heard in it, like a triple pulsation, some­
times loud enough to be heard several rooms off. In this manner I
have heard them in a living tree— on a sheet of glass— on a stretched
iron wire — on a stretched membrane — a tambourine — on the roof
of a cab — and on the floor of a theater. Moreover actual contact is
not necessary. I have heard these sounds proceeding from the floor,
walls, etc., when the medium’s hands and feet were held — when she
was standing on a chair — when she was suspended in a swing from
the ceiling — when she was inclosed in a wire cage — and when she
had fallen fainting on a sofa. . . . With a full knowledge of the
numerous theories which have been started, chiefly in America, to
V
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 41
explain these sounds, I have tested them in every way I could devise,
until there has been no escape from the conviction that they were
true objective occurrences, not produced by trickery or mechanical
means.22
It must be remembered that Sir William Crookes, the dis­
coverer of thallium, and the inventor of the radiometer, was
a very eminent scientific man, who in 1874 was at the height
of his powers. Unlike Sir A. C. Doyle in our own day, or
Judge Edmonds in a past generation, he was then wedded
to no quasi-religious theory. He himself states explicitly —
That certain physical phenomena, such as the movement of ma­
terial substances, and the production of sounds resembling electric
charges, occur under circumstances in which they cannot be explained
by any physical law at present known, is a fact of which I am
as certain as I am of the most elementary fact in chemistry. My
whole scientific education has been one long lesson in exactness of
observation, and I wish it to be distinctly understood that this firm
conviction is the result of most careful investigation. But I cannot,
at present, hazard even the most vague hypothesis as to the cause
of the phenomena. Hitherto I have seen nothing to convince me of
the truth of the “spiritual” theory.23
Those, however, who believe that the knockings of the
Fox sisters were caused by spirits, e.g., by the ghost of the
murdered peddler, have a very serious difficulty to face. In
her own private apartment, as described by a New Yor\
Herald reporter, and again before a crowded audience at
the Academy of Music, Mrs. Kane produced raps at will, in
order to prove that the spirits had nothing to do with the
matter and that she caused the sounds herself. The spiritu­
alists, therefore, are forced to admit that the spirits in this
“ Crookes, Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism (1874), p. 87. Ob­
viously some, at least, of the phenomena must have been observed in daylight.
“ Crookes, op. cit., pp. 3-4. 1 may note that even Father de Heredia, S.J.,
does not dispute the fact that the production of raps, though at present unex­
plained, may be due to purely natural causes. See his book Los Fraudes Espiritistas
y los Fenómenos Metapsiquicos (19 3 1), pp. 255-265.
42 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
case bore testimony to their own non-existence, and also that
Mrs. Kane, even when half intoxicated, had an assured con­
viction that they would not fail her. Thus we find ourselves
confronted by a very curious problem. Perhaps another cen­
tury or two of psychic research may provide a solution, but,
for the present, Sir William Crookes’ attitude of reserve
seems still to impose itself.
In his article entitled “The Mystery of the Three Fox
Sisters” (1922) and in his History of Spiritualism (1926),
Sir A. C. Doyle did his best to palliate the stigma which the
career of Margaretta and Kate had fastened upon the cause.
But he could not dispute the fact that the scene at the Aca­
demy of Music took place as described above. He also ad­
mitted that Kate, as well as Mrs. Kane, in a printed inter­
view, declared that what happened at Hydesville “was all
humbuggery, every bit of it.” Moreover, he avowed that
when Mrs. Kane was bent on demonstrating that Spiritual­
ism was nothing but trickery she produced a storm of raps
at will, not only in the public hall where they were audible
to a large assembly and seemed to come from the walls and
roof of the building, but also privately when she was inter­
viewed by a reporter of the New Yor^ Herald. Sir Arthur
was probably right when he remarked:
“ She really knew no more of the nature of these forces than those
around her did. The editor [i.e., of The Love-Life of Dr. Kane]
says: ‘She always averred that she never fully believed the rappings
to be the work of spirits, but imagined mere occult laws of nature
were concerned.’ This was her attitude later in life, for on her pro­
fessional card she printed that people must judge the nature of the
powers for themselves.”24
And again:
“ When a man like Dr. Kane assured Margaretta that it was very
wrong, he was only saying what was dinned into his ears from every
quarter, including half the pulpits of New York. Probably she had
M
History of Spiritualism, I, p. 92.
FOUNDERS OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM 43
an uneasy feeling that it was wrong, without in the least knowing
why, and this may account for the fact that she does not seem to
remonstrate with him for his suspicions.” 25
Doyle’s theory, as already hinted, was that Maggie’s raps
were caused by the protrusion from some part of her person
of a long rod of ectoplasm, a substance invisible to the eye
under normal conditions, but which is capable of conduct­
ing energy in such a fashion as to make sounds and strike
blows at a distance. He appealed to Dr. Crawford’s experi­
ments with the Goligher circle, in which good evidence was
obtained of the existence of some such mysterious substance.
Further, he considered that “ it is entirely possible that Mar-
garetta had some control over the expulsion of ectoplasm
which caused the sound.” In the Goligher seances, however,
we were given to understand that it was the “operators,”
spirits who required to be treated with every courtesy, who
were the executants of all the phenomena. The medium
was an absolutely passive instrument. But Margaretta Fox
Kane was evidently sure of her own powers. When she
wanted to rap, the raps came, even though she used the gift
to demonstrate that the phenomena were all fraudulent.
Those, then, who adhere to the belief that it is the spirits
who produce the raps are forced, as stated previously, to
admit that the spirits in this case bore testimony to their
own non-existence, and also that Margaretta had an assured
conviction that they would not fail her. On the other hand,
if we suppose that she was able at will to extrude ectoplasmic
rods as far as the roof of the hall and thus produce the raps
unaided, the whole spiritualistic element disappears. She
may have had this power from childhood, and it may be
some precisely similar power which is responsible for the
Poltergeist phenomena, which are almost invariably asso-
K
Ibid„ I, p. go.
44 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
dated with a child or young person under twenty. From
the narrative of Leah (Mrs. Underhill) in her book, The
Missing U n\, Doyle was led to conclude that “the entities
with which the Fox circle were at first in contact were not
of the highest order.”
This is, of course, but a very imperfect sketch of the
career of the Fox sisters. One might have said much about
the well-attested manifestations witnessed at their seances
in early days, and one might have dwelt upon the ample
provision made for them by patrons like Horace H. Day,
Henry Seybert, and Charles F. Livermore.26 If only they
had been able to exercise self-control, they would never have
been in any danger of poverty. But while we make the fullest
possible allowance for the pitiable effects of heredity in the
matter of intemperance, the impression left upon us is in­
tensely sad and even sinister. It surely needs a curious ob­
liquity of vision to see anything divine in a revelation
ushered into the world under such auspices.
"See for example The Spiritual Magazine, 18 7 1, pp. 525-526, and Emma
Hardinge Britten’s Autobiography, p. 39.
C h a p t e r III
CATHO LICISM AN D T H E E A R LY SPIRITU ALISTS
In a b o o k which is almost certainly the first considerable
work on Spiritualism produced by a British author — I refer
to Henry Spicer’s Sights and Sounds/ may be found many
interesting sidelights upon the beginnings of that perplexing
movement which has since occasioned so much controversy.
Visiting the United States in a spirit of complete scepticism,
Mr. Spicer eventually became a believer in the philosophy,
or at any rate in the phenomena, of the new cult, and, in
spite of many trivialities and digressions, his pages preserve
a more impartial picture of the conditions under which the
craze developed than can easily be met with elsewhere. I
do not here propose, however, to discuss the work in ques­
tion, but a casual utterance which is recorded therein and
which purports to emanate from the spirits in the beyond,
seems worthy of the attention of those who approach the
subject from the Catholic standpoint. Speaking of the non­
sectarian character of Spiritualism in these very early days,
Mr. Spicer declares that “persons of all Churches and creeds
have lent themselves to the movement,” and he goes on to
state that “one of the most remarkable media in answer to
a question ‘Which religion is the true one?’ answered —
‘None are perfect, but the Roman Catholic Church is nearest
to the truth.’ ”2
Who the particular medium was through whom this an-
’The full title is Sights and Sounds; the Mystery of the Day, Comprising an
entire History of the American "Spirit" Manifestations, by Henry Spicer, Esq.
(London: Thomas Bosworth, 1853), 486 pp.
*Sights and Sounds, p. 444. Media, still italicized in these early books as a
new locution, was often used at first by spiritistic writers for the plural of medium.
45
46 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
swer was obtained is unfortunately not stated, but there can
be no doubt about the fact that — owing possibly to such
well-known Catholic tenets as the belief in miracles, in
purgatory, and in the revelations made to holy people —
there was a distinct Romeward trend in many of the more
religiously minded enquirers whose curiosity was awakened
by the phenomena of the early spiritualists. Margaretta Fox,
the cofoundress of modern Spiritualism, and D. D. Home,
the most famous of all mediums, were both received into the
Church, but both, it is sad to note, subsequently fell away.
Of Margaretta an account has just been given; Home’s short­
lived conversion will form the subject of a subsequent
chapter.
That there have been other prominent spiritualists who
with more or less of sincerity and constancy have coquetted
with Catholicism will be known to those who have studied
the literature of the movement. A conspicuous example was
Florence Marryat (Mrs. Lean), the author of There is no
Death and other spiritualistic works. The Dictionary of
National Biography states that “although a Roman Cath­
olic, she received permission from her director, Father Dal-
gairns of the Brompton Oratory, to pursue researches of the
kind in the cause of science.” This was, of course, long be­
fore the promulgation of certain recent decrees, but one feels
very doubtful whether Father Dalgairns can ever have sanc­
tioned such “researches” as those which are described in
some of Florence Marryat’s spiritualistic books.
Even Mr. Stainton Moses, whom Sir A. C. Doyle regard­
ed as one of the great seers of Spiritualism, seems at one time
to have fallen under the spell of Catholic influences. “ Im-
perator,” the control who declared himself to be no less a
personage than the prophet Malachy, when explaining to
the famous medium how his religious development had
\
THE EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 47
been the special care of the highest order of spirits, informed
him that:
“ It was during this phase of your religious belief that we directed
your study to the records of that body of Christian believers who
falsely arrogate to themselves the title of the Church of God and
call themselves Catholic and Universal. You read their books, you
knew their creed, you learned from them much that was real and
true; and if you learned naught else, at least you unlearned that
chilling heartless bigotry which would identify Catholic belief with
universal damnation, and would make Rome synonymous with hell.
Another ray dawned on your soul when you learned to believe that
a Catholic might be saved, and that God might even look with favour
on the ignorant prayer to the Virgin which came warm from the
heart of the fanatical peasant who had no knowledge but his faith.
But indeed you learned more. You learned of angel ministry, of
saintly intercession, of the power of prayer.” 3
These tributes to Catholic teaching, however qualified, are
perhaps the more remarkable because there can be no ques­
tion that the Church from the very beginning adopted the
most uncompromising attitude towards the spiritualistic
movement. As Mr. Spicer remarks, the testimony that Ca­
tholicism “comes nearest to the truth” has been received by
the Roman Communion “ in a most ungracious spirit, inas­
much as her teachers have, with much anxiety, warned their
hearers against yielding any sort of credence to the new
manifestations.”4 Possibly the very earliest pronouncement
of a more public and serious character which in the name
of the Church and ecclesiastical authority put Catholics on
their guard against the prefitensions of the spirit-rapping
craze was an article in the Boston Pilot. I have not seen the
original newspaper in which it appeared, but the article is
copied entire in Adin Ballou’s book, Spirit Manifestations,
the first edition of which was published in Boston in 1852.
*Trethewy, The Controls of Stainton Moses (19 23), p. 13.
4Sights and Sounds, p. 445.
48 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Ballou himself was a Universalist minister who had founded
a curious and austere socialistic community at Hopeton. He
was an earnest believer in the new cult born of the phenom­
ena of the Fox sisters. The Pilot article is only quoted by him
to illustrate the prejudice and narrow-mindedness of Cath­
olics, who, like the Methodists, the Episcopalians, and most
other denominations, had refused to find anything religious­
ly inspiring in the manifestations from the other world. In
spite of Mr. Ballou’s indignant protests there is much forcible
common sense and an undercurrent of humour in the “edi­
torial” in question.
The writer (one is tempted to guess that it may have been
Orestes A. Brownson) begins by a summary of what he de­
scribes as “the pretensions of the rappo-maniacs,” how the
souls of the departed, progressing through a series of spheres
or worlds, each of which is more perfect than the last, have
been for ages “trying to communicate with people in this
world, to tell them how happy they are, how watchful they
are over us, and to give us, generally, the news from the
other side.” But men for the most part have been indifferent,
except for some few saints and miracle workers, our Lord
among them, “who, they say, was an extraordinary mes­
merist and of a wonderfully susceptible organization.” Now
at last, we are told, the barriers between the two worlds are
giving way. Men have become more spiritualized and the
spirits have begun to communicate freely with mortals. The
time is at hand when conversation between spirits and mor­
tals will be as common as conversation among living men.
Already raps are being discarded as too clumsy a means of
communication. All that is now necessary is to provide pen­
cil and paper and wait until some spirit guides your hand.
“Whole books,” says this critic (already in 1852!), “have
been written in this way; recently one was written by the
TH E EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 49
now happy ghost of Tom Paine, who is at present travelling
in the sixth heaven and expects soon to reach the seventh.”5
It is even promised that before many years these communi­
cations and physical manifestations will become so common
as to excite no remark. The following passage, as coming
from a Boston Catholic, who lived in the heart of what he
describes, deserves to be given in full:
“ Our readers, at least most of them, will hardly believe that this
delusion has so spread over New England, and towns in other states
of New England origin, that scarcely a village can be found which
is not infested with it. In most small towns several families are
possessed, the medium between the erratic ghosts and the crazy fools
being, in some cases, a weak and half-witted woman, but in most
instances a little girl, whom her parents and friends have prostituted
to this wicked trade. Most of the mediums, who are sometimes, but
not always, put into a mesmeric sleep before starting in search of
the ghosts, become stark staring mad, and so do many of the be­
lievers. Not a week passes that does not see some one of them com­
mit suicide or go to the madhouse. All of the mediums give un­
equivocal signs of some abnormal unnatural disturbance of their
bodily and mental functions. Some of them discover indications of
what looks like genuine possession by a devil. The evil is unques­
tionably spreading, and it will, in a few years, exhibit shocking
results.”
Although we must, no doubt, allow for some exaggera­
tion in a newspaper article of this kind, the writer’s state­
ments regarding the prevalence of the craze are entirely
borne out by such native spiritualists as Ballou, Capron, and
Judge Edmonds, as well as by English visitors like Mr.
Spicer. Even as regards the spread of lunacy and suicide, the
accusation could not be wholly denied. Ballou, in answer
to the objection that these manifestations cause insanity, re­
plies only: “They do, when grossly abused; not otherwise.
®This work was produced through the mediumship of the Rev. Charles Ham­
mond. There is a copy of it in the British Museum library.
50 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
So does love between the sexes; so does gold-seeking and
property-getting; so does religion.”1
’ But to discuss the evi­
dence on this point would take us too far afield. We are con­
cerned here primarily with the Catholic attitude as mani­
fested in this issue of the Boston Pilot of June, 1852. So far
as Catholics themselves were concerned, the writer declares
that few had been led astray by this new “rappomania.”
There had been attempts made to inveigle Irish servants in
Protestant households into taking part in such practices.
“ Scarce any,” we are told, “have fallen into this unfortunate
mistake; and those who have, led either through excessive
complaisance or curiosity, soon pitched the whole affair to
the black spirit that started it.”7 For the most part, “ the
Irish girls behave nobly, they laugh at the ignorance and
superstition of their silly employers.” We need not follow
the writer in his historical review of the subject nor in his ex­
cellent comments on the case of the girl “having a pythonical
spirit,” recorded in the sixteenth chapter of the Acts of the
Apostles. In connection with this last incident he notes that
“ something similar has happened in circles where the medium was
busily at work talking with the real or supposed ghosts, the acciden­
tal entrance of a baptised person — a Catholic — made the spirit
dumb. This has occurred several times within our knowledge.”
Returning from his review of the past to contemporary
manifestations, the writer unhesitatingly assigns a large share
in the business to trickery. “ It is certain,” he declares, “that
8
'Spirit Manifestations (Boston: 1852), p. 89.
7An attack made upon Margaretta Fox in November, 1850, when staying at
West Troy in the house of a Mr. Bouton, was said at the time to have been the
work of Irish roughs. But Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten admits that “ it was
found that Catholics and Irish do not make up the bulk of the rude and jibing
mobs that surrounded Mr. Bouton’s house, fired the shots, and threw stones at
the windows, uttering meanwhile threats and imprecations against the ‘unholy
witch-woman within.’ “ History of Modern American Spiritualism, 4th ed. (New
York: 1870), p. 88.
TH E EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 5i
in some cases the raps or noises, supposed to have been made
by uneasy ghosts, were made by machinery, or by the toes,
knee joints or hands of the mediums.” The fools who sit
around a table with their hands spread upon it are easily
duped.
“ Yet [he goes on], making due allowances, it is a question whether
something more serious than mere jugglery be not at the bottom of
this rappomania. We have thought, read, seen, and heard somewhat
about it, and our opinion is that the affair is not pure undiluted im­
posture. Amidst the mass of trash, certain traces of an Intelligence
that is not human are tolerably clear. . . . That a communication can
be established between spirits and mortals is certain, of course. The
Holy Scriptures testify that such communications were common. . . .
The possibility, therefore, that these manifestations are, to a certain
extent, real and made by invisible beings is hardly questionable.”
Arguing from the fact, which no Catholic will dispute,
that spirits, good and bad, are effectually present to the hu­
man soul, the writer concludes that diabolic influences may
be presumed to be actively at work in encouraging these
manifestations. The powers of evil have an interest in pro­
moting them, for nothing is so fatal to soul and body as this
rappomania.
“It is quite easy, therefore, to see that Catholics cannot counte­
nance it at all. As might be expected they do not. Grant that it is
wholly a humbug, they are not accustomed to tolerate humbugs. . . .
But there is a possibility that, with all the humbug, there may be a
devilish agency at work in the matter; and, in this view of the case,
no Catholic can have in it part or lot. Hence we counsel our readers
to avoid it, to spurn it, without forgetting to laugh at it. As far as
possible, shun the houses and the company of the humbugged un­
fortunates, the knaves or the demoniacs who practise it. If circum­
stances compel you to live with them, a hearty prayer and a plentiful
supply of holy water will meet the necessities of the case.”8
sSee Ballou, Spirit Manifestations, 1st edition (Boston, 1852), pp. 14 1-15 3 ,
where he reproduces the article in full. I am indebted to the great kindness of the
late Mr. Henry Ford, for some time a professor at Princeton University, for send­
ing me this among many other precious volumes bearing on the early history of
Spiritualism.
a h
52 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
As already suggested, it is possible that this article was
written, or at least inspired, by Orestes A. Brownson, the
famous American convert from Unitarianism. His home
was then at Chelsea, a suburb of Boston. He seems to have
been on good terms with the Pilot, and the views expressed
are in close accord with those which may be found more
fully elaborated in that strange book of his (which, in spite
of its fictional setting, is neither romance, nor history, nor
dissertation) The Spirit-Rapper, published in 1854, two years
later.
But of all the examples of the Romeward tendency of early
Spiritualism the most curious that I have met is the conver­
sion, in 1857, of Dr. T. L. Nichols and his wife, Mary S.
Gove Nichols, which took place at Cincinnati. Both of them,
owing to their connection with socialistic and other move­
ments, seem to have been well known in America, and, when
they settled subsequently in England, they again achieved
a certain reputation by publications on hygiene, economics,
spirit manifestations, etc., for the most part of a rather ex­
travagant type. It was Dr. Nichols who first instructed the
British public on How to Live on Sixpence a Day, and who
published an account of the Davenport Brothers, which was
appealed to by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle as establishing con­
clusively the reality of the Davenport phenomena. What
concerns us now, however, is a tiny pamphlet of eight pages
containing an explanation of the Nichols’s conversion to
Catholicism and an apology for the same.9 The main state­
ment is preceded by an “ Introductory Letter” to the Arch­
bishop of Cincinnati (Dr. J. B. Purcell), in which the writers,
I t bears the title: Letter from Dr. T. L. Nichols and Mrs. Mary S. Gove
Nichols, to their friends and coworkers, giving an account of their conversion
to the Holy Catholic Church, and it was printed at The Democratic Expositor
office, Springfield, Ohio. 1 am indebted to the Very Rev. Canon Norris, of Brent­
wood, for a copy of this rare and most curious tract.
TH E EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 53
after mentioning that they have been “ the centre of a large
society of Reformers, who have acted with us, more or less,
in the propagation of our opinions and in our efforts to pre­
pare for a new Social Order,” proceed to inform his Lord-
ship that —
“ The intelligence of our conversion will be received with incre­
dulity by some, with astonishment and indignation by others, by
many doubtless with ridicule and contempt. The Socialists, Spirit­
ualists, and Reformers with whom we have been connected will re­
gret or blame our defection and desertion; or say, as one has already
said in the bitterness of her heart, ‘Have the Nicholses, too, sold the
Blessed Lord for thirty pieces of silver?’ ”
In the body of the pamphlet the writers beg their former
fellow workers to believe that they have in no way lost their
practical interest in the projects of social reform because
they have come, “through Infinite Mercy, to accept the
Grace of God through the Order of His Church as the
Divinely appointed means of removing these evils.” But the
main feature of the apologia is a narrative of facts, beginning
thus:
“ In the autumn of 1854 Mrs. Nichols became what is called a
subjected medium for spiritual manifestations and communications.
. . . We have had abundant proof that there are good and bad spirits,
as there are good and bad men, and we judge both by similar rules.
In the beginning of the manifestations Mrs. Nichols was told: If you
open your mind indiscriminately, bad and worthless communications
will be made to you. From this warning . . . we were effectually put
on our guard against indiscriminate communications; so much so,
that we have not been willing to visit mediums, or to receive com­
munications as verities except from three mediums, nor have we al­
ways given these full reliance. . . . Those who say that we have ac­
cepted the dogmas, morality, and discipline of the Catholic Church
because they have been communicated to us by spirits, in a mere
blind credensiveness [sic], without faith or understanding, do not
know what they say. . . . We have accepted the dogmas of the
Church, as explained by what purported to be the spirits of two
54 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
eminent Catholic saints; but so clear and beautiful was their ex­
planation of the soul and meaning of these dogmas, that we could
as well have turned voluntarily from Heaven to Hell, as to refuse
to believe these Heavenly Doctrines.”
The writers go on to say that in the winter of 1856 a spirit
appeared to Mrs. Nichols, “ while in circle,” who declared
himself to be a Jesuit and announced that the aims of his
Society were no other than the same moral reform striven
for by high-minded social workers. He urged her, conse­
quently, to enquire into the history and doctrines of the So­
ciety. As Mrs. Nichols was always obedient to the counsels
of her “guardian spirit” who had promised to protect her
from all harm, and as the Jesuit communicator had not been
formally recommended by this guardian spirit, she paid no
attention to the advice so given. Her husband, however,
knowing nothing of the Jesuits or of Catholicity, had the
curiosity to procure a Protestant history of the Society. But
stranger things followed:
“ Six months after the circumstances related above, a venerable shade
appeared in circle to Mrs. Nichols, wearing a dress resembling that
worn by the Order, which she had not then seen, and having also
a rope girdle about his waist, the knotted ends of which were stained
with blood. He rebuked her earnestly for not having examined
Jesuitism, and exclaimed: ‘Justice! Justice to the Society of Jesus!’
He said his name was Gonzales and we heard afterwards that he
was one of the early Jesuit Fathers — a missionary and a martyr.10
So earnest was the demand of this spirit that we should examine the
doctrine and records of this Society, that Mrs. Nichols wrote to the
Archbishop of Cincinnati stating the circumstances and asking what
books we should procure, and was by him referred to the Rector of
St. Xavier’s College.
'"There were many Jesuits of this name, but the priest here intended seems to
be Father Roque Gonzalez de Santa Cruz, a native of Asuncion (Paraguay), who
was martyred by the Indians of that province, November 15, 1628. His skull was
smashed to pieces by blows of a wooden club. See Astrain, Historia de ¡a Com­
pañía de Jestis en la Asistencia de España, Vol. V, pp. 5 13-5 14 .
TH E EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 55
“ Near the same time, the shade of the venerable Founder of the
Society, St. Ignatius de Loyola, appeared to Mrs. Nichols and gave
her what he called ‘a method of reduction’ [sic]. It was directions
for an order of life, that we believe to be divinely inspired, and to
which we hope, by the grace of God, communicated through His
Church, to live in a holy obedience.”
Although husband and wife still remained wholly igno­
rant of Catholic doctrine, another guide manifested in the
same way and declared that he was St. Francis Xavier.
Through this last spirit a complete course of instruction was
communicated to the enquirers upon which they expatiate
in considerable detail and with great enthusiasm. The teach­
ing began with the Sacrament of Baptism and culminated
in the Immaculate Conception. The final outcome is thus
narrated:
“ When these sacred mysteries had been explained and illustrated
to us, with such clearness of demonstration or such power of grace
that we were constrained to believe, we had not yet read any books
of Catholic Doctrine. . . . We were then directed (by the spirit) to
procure the authorized books of Catholic doctrine. We did so, and
became satisfied of the identity of the doctrines taught us and those
held by the Roman Catholic Church. We also wrote to a Catholic
layman and afterwards to a Jesuit priest, sending them accounts of
our experience. Both assured us that every item, thus communicated
to us, was of Catholic faith.
“ We were now directed by our spiritual father, whom we believe
to be no other than the blessed St. Francis Xavier, to seek the grace
of baptism, and the oral instruction of the Church. This we did by
going to Cincinnati, and on the 29th of March receiving the Sacra­
ment of Baptism at the hands of Father Oakley, Rector of St. Xavier’s
College.”
Then, after referring to the marvels recorded in the Life
of St. Francis Xavier and in those of other saints, the writers
add in reference to the spiritualistic movement:
“ May it not be that the Almighty has permitted similar manifesta­
tions, out of the Church, to awaken people to the great fact of a spir-
56 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
itual existence, and then to be the means, as in our case, of bringing
them into the fold of His Church, which is truly spiritual, and full
of divine and miraculous manifestations?”
This is a strange story, and one can hardly help suspecting
that it is based upon some extraordinary faculty of self-de­
lusion. Still, Dr. and Mrs. Nichols can have had no con­
ceivable pecuniary or other motive for conscious deception.
Whether both remained faithful and practical Catholics un­
til their death I am not altogether able to say, but I have
before me some letters of theirs written twenty years later
when they were resident in England. In one of these Dr.
Nichols states that he came to London in 1861 with letters
of introduction to Cardinal Wiseman, Bishop Grant, etc.,
and that since then Dr., afterwards Cardinal, Manning had
twice said Mass in the house occupied by himself and his
wife at Malvern. At the same time, it is clear from Dr.
Nichols’ letter (which was addressed to the late Canon Gil­
bert of Moorfields), that the Doctor thought it no harm to
assist at spiritualistic manifestations. He says for instance:
“ I have very carefully observed the so-called materialisations
which sometimes occur in the presence of Mr. Eglinton (the
medium) and though I was suspicious of fraud I became
entirely satisfied of his good faith.” Similarly, his wife, writ­
ing at the same date (1877), refers to the priest under whose
direction she has remained continuously for twelve years,
and speaks in every way as a devout Catholic, though she
also alludes to the séances with Eglinton at which she has
assisted and to the exercise of her own clairvoyant powers.
Of course, it must be remembered that at this date participa­
tion in séances and mediumistic practices had not been for­
bidden in the same explicit terms as those used in the decrees
of the Holy Office which have been reproduced in Chapter I.
In a curious book published by T. L. Nichols, in 1887,
with the title Nichols’ Health Manual; being also a Memo-
TH E EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 57
rial of the Life and Wor^ of Mrs. Mary S. Gove Nichols, he
tells again briefly the story of their conversion. Certain addi­
tional facts may here be learned. He remarks, for example:
“ I have no reason to believe that Mrs. Nichols, a Puritan, Quaker,
Swedenborgian, Fourierist, had ever read either the Nicene or the
Athanasian Creed. Her father was a Freethinker — her mother an
Universalist. She did not know the number or the names of the
seven Sacraments. We had no Catholic books — no Catholic ac­
quaintances; yet she gave, day by day, speaking in a kind of trance,
so full and clear a statement of Roman Catholic theology, that when
we sent a synopsis of it to the only Catholic we happened to know
personally, then living at Richmond, to ask if it were true, he sent it
to a Jesuit Father in Virginia, who wrote: ‘I offer no opinion as to
the mode in which this has been received, but I can assure you it is,
in every item, of Catholic faith.’ ”
Dr. Nichols goes on to state that his wife remained a de­
voted member of the Catholic Church until her death in
1884, and on the last page of the book we are presented with
an engraving of her tombstone in Kensal Green Cemetery,
London. It is a simple stone cross with the single word
JESUS engraved in large letters in the centre, and at the
foot the words “Pray for the Soul of Mary S. Gove Nichols”
with dates. The author further declares that when he and
his wife first came to London and presented themselves to
Cardinal Wiseman, narrating the strange story of their con­
version, “he received us very kindly and said he had known
several similar cases.” Dr. Nichols adds, “ I give the facts and
do not attempt any explanation.” 11
One final remark must be added in this place. Among the
friends whom the Nicholses made in England were William
and Mary Howitt, both of them writers of some distinction.
The husband died in 1879, the wife in 1888, and both are
separately commemorated in the Dictionary of National
''Nichols’ Health Manual, p. 97. See also the reference to Mrs. Nichols’ con­
version in the Appendix to this volume.
58 THE CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Biography (Vol. X X V III). They were ardent spiritualists,
and the husband, in 1863, brought out a History of the Su­
pernatural which is still of value for the curious facts he has
gathered up from out-of-the-way sources. Of the Howitts,
The Times, in an obituary notice, remarked: “Their friends
used jokingly to call them ‘William and Mary,’ and to main­
tain that they had been crowned together like their royal
prototypes. Nothing that either of them wrote will live, but
they were so industrious, so disinterested, so amiable, so de­
voted to the work of spreading good and innocent literature,
that their names ought not to disappear unmourned.” After
her husband’s death Mrs. Howitt became a Catholic, and
she died most piously at Rome in 1888. William Howitt
was a frequent contributor to the spiritualistic journals and
in 1875 he wrote a rather violent article in the Spiritual
Magazine attacking Catholic devotion to our Blessed Lady.
To this Dr. Nichols replied with an “Expostulation,” in
which, after expressing his “great respect for Mr. William
Howitt and his warm personal regard for all the members
of the family,” he concludes his letter with the following
protest:
“ Not only are all Catholics ‘spiritualists’ [this is true, in the sense
that they believe in a world of spirits which may on occasion com­
municate with mankind as we see, for example, in the case of St.
Jeanne d’Arc] and therefore entided to fair and decent treatment in
a spiritualist magazine, but many spiritualists, in England and Amer­
ica, have become Roman Catholics. Some remarkable mediums are
among the number — one of the Fox girls, for example, and the
daughter of the late Judge Edmonds. I am personally acquainted with
many such. With what feelings do you imagine that they will read
Mr. Howitt’s eighteen pages in your January number?” 12
That Judge Edmonds’s daughter became a Catholic does
not seem to have been generally known, but Dr. Nichols is
'*Thc Spiritual Magazine, 1875, pp. 143-4.
TH E EARLY SPIRITUALISTS 59
not likely to have been misinformed on such a point. Cer­
tain it is in any case that the late Earl of Dunraven, in his
book Past-times and Pastimes (1922), speaks of her in terms
of the most cordial regard. Making reference to a visit which
he paid to the United States in 1869, Lord Dunraven says:
“ I had a few letters of introduction; among them one given to
me, I have no doubt, by my friend D. D. Home, the famous medium,
to Judge Edmonds; and it was to him we paid our first visit. Judge
Edmonds was a most charming man, a most interesting and lovable
personality — a typical American of those days. He was a New
Englander, I think; at any rate, he represented the best characteristics
of that type. That he had commanding intellect and acquired learn­
ing, his position as Judge of the Supreme Court abundantly proves.
That in moral courage he excelled is shown by his declaration of
faith in Spiritualism. It takes some courage even now for a man
eminent in any phase of life requiring keen powers of observation
and a calm dispassionate judicial mind, to avow his belief in that
theory and to assert the reality of the phenomena attributed to it;
but it must have been a trial indeed to a man in the highest legal
position in the land to assert his belief, sixty or seventy years ago,
in a system universally condemned as founded on the most barefaced
trickery and deception, and accepted only by credulous fools. Whether
Judge Edmonds was right or wrong does not matter; he was a very
courageous man. Quaint, full of human kindness, brilliantly intel­
ligent, he was a most delightful host and companion. He was a dear
old gentleman; and his daughter Laura Edmonds, afterwards Mrs.
Gilmour, was a feminine replica of him — they were a picture, and
tlie setting of it was worthy of them. . . . Mrs. Gilmour corresponded
with me at intervals till her death at Glen Falls three years ago — a
charitable, kindly and noble woman.”
As we learn from her father, Laura Edmonds, before 1854,
had developed mediumistic powers which were altogether
remarkable. Falling into trance she at times held converse
with those who addressed her in different Indian dialects and
in modern Greek — languages of which she was quite ig­
norant— making intelligent replies to the questions which
6o TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
were put to her. As to her practice of Catholicism after her
reception and her perseverance in the faith, I unfortunately
know nothing. But, in any case, it seems clear that the beliefs
adopted by the father at the cost of so much self-sacrifice
did not permanently satisfy the needs which the daughter
felt of inspired religious guidance.
C h a p t e r IV
T H E CONVERSION OF HOME, T H E MEDIUM
T h a t the medium, Daniel Dunglas Home, was received in­
to the Catholic Church at Rome, and was admitted to an
audience with Pius IX, is a fact well known to all who have
given any attention to the career of that famous psychic. To
do him justice, Home deals with the subject very fully in
the first series of recollections which he published under the
title of Incidents in My Life. Whether the writer’s candour
be real or only apparent, it is not perhaps easy to determine,
but he evidently wished to produce the impression of meet­
ing his critics fairly and in the open. At the time when
Home came to Rome he was twenty-three years of age,
having been born in Scotland in 1833, though nearly all his
life since early childhood had been spent in the United
States. The medium’s spirit-rapping experiences began in
1850, and in the following year he had already acquired a
considerable reputation, sometimes holding circles as often
as six times a day.1 In 1855 he crossed the Atlantic, and after
spending a few months in England, he came to Florence in
the autumn. There, in the month of December, an attempt
was made to assassinate him, but only a very slight dagger
wound was inflicted. The motive of the outrage was never
discovered, and some scoffers even have doubted the reality
of the occurrence, despite the very circumstantial account of
the affair which Home supplies in his Incidents. To his
biographer, however, who emphasizes “the shock caused to
his sensitive temperament” both by the outrage and the
*Mrs. Home, D. D. Home, His Life and Mission, p. n .
6l
62 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
extreme severity of the winter, the state of the medium’s
health seemed mainly responsible for the fact that shortly
afterwards he lost, or at any rate declared that he had lost,
his special psychic gift. On the evening of February io, 1856,
as Home himself records, “the spirits told me that my power
would leave me for a year.” At this time he had been on the
point of undertaking a journey to Naples in company with
Count Branicki and his family who were all Catholics. The
psychic wrote to explain that, as he was no longer able to
promise any manifestations, he felt he ought to decline their
invitation to join them. He was informed, however, that he
need feel no scruples, as he was wanted for his own sake and
not for any exhibition of his powers. The party spent three
weeks in Naples, and in spite of the suspension of his
mediumship, phenomena took place in Home’s presence,
though he explains them by saying that his being there
seemed to develop the power in others. It is stated that one
of the Royal Princes, who joined in a seance which was held
in the house of the American Minister at the Court of
Naples, was himself a medium, and manifestations occurred
by which Mr. R. Dale Owen, the Minister in question, was
converted to Spiritualism. Then, on a change of scene, new
influences were encountered, and Home’s religious views
underwent a change, which his second wife, in her Memoir,
introduces as follows:
“ From Naples, the Branicki family and their guest went to Rome,
where the Catholic influences that surrounded him exerted themselves
constantly and effectively to turn his thoughts towards seeking refuge
in the Church. They were aided by the cruel experiences he had
recently suffered. The falsehood of friends to whom he was much
attached had wounded him keenly, the occurrences that closed his
stay in Florence had profoundly saddened him; and while these
clouds darkened the natural sunshine of his spirit, a veil had been
suddenly dropped between him and the world beyond, and all
THE CONVERSION OF HOME 63
counsel and comfort from it was withdrawn. In this gloomy moment,
Catholic advisers suggested to him that the peace of mind he longed
for might perhaps be found in the Church of Rome, and he sought
and read with intense eagerness works relating to her doctrines.”2
Home’s own account, written in 1863, states that, when all
natural and spiritual consolations were withdrawn, “life
seemed to me a blank,” accordingly he was led to read
Romish books, and then,
“ Finding them expressive of so many facts which I had found
coincident in my own experience, I thought that all contending and
contradictory beliefs would be forever set at rest, could I but be re­
ceived as a member of that body. My experiences of life and its falsity
had already left so indelible a mark on my soul, from my recent
experiences of it at Florence, that I wished to shun everything which
pertained to this world, and I determined to enter a monastery.”
We really have no record of experiences at Florence, save
the attempt upon his life, which seem adequately to explain
so profound a depression. It is impossible not to conjecture
that either some love disappointment had occurred or that
his sudden propinquity to the next world had thoroughly
frightened him. Be this as it may, the account goes on:
“ After two or three weeks of serious deliberations on the part of
the authorities, it was decided that I should be received as a member
of the Church and I was confirmed. The Princess O(rsini) was my
godmother, and the Count B(ranicki) my godfather on the occasion.
I was most kindly received by the Pope, who questioned me much
regarding my past life. He pointed to a crucifix which stood near
to us, and said: ‘My child, it is upon what is on that table that we
place our faith.’ He also gave me a large silver medal which it has
since been my misfortune to lose.”
From the Memoir written by Mrs. Home we learn that
“an English prelate, Msgr. Talbot, accompanied Home to
the Vatican,” and it appears that the same Msgr. Talbot, a
personage with whom readers of Purcell’s Life of Cardinal
Manning are made very familiar, had been instrumental in
iHome's Life and Mission, pp. 67, 68.
64 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
arranging for his confirmation. A letter of his to Home, giv­
ing him directions regarding this, was preserved among the
papers found after the medium’s death, as was also a special
Papal blessing which, Mrs. Home declares, “guaranteed to
him and his relatives an entry into Paradise.” The fact that
the writer belonged to the Orthodox Russian Church may
explain the quaintness of this impression regarding the pur­
port of a Papal blessing, as also the following remark con­
nected with the reception: “There was nothing said of de­
moniacal possession. Possibly in welcoming her new son,
the Church had hopes that she might one day canonise him
as a worker of miracles.” 3 On the other hand, I know of no
evidence to suggest that Home’s conversion was regarded in
Rome as an important conquest. He was received, and bap­
tised conditionally, by Father John Etheridge, an English
Jesuit then resident in Rome. Brother Arthur Everard, S.J.,
who died only in 1922, was present on the occasion, and I
learned from him that the little ceremony took place quietly.
I can find no mention of the reception in The Tablet or in
the Civiltà Cattolica or in the Giornale di Roma, in all of
which the more striking occurrences of this kind were com­
monly recorded. No doubt Home’s aristocratic friends, like
the Branickis, will easily have procured him an introduction
to the Hon. and Very Rev. Msgr. George Talbot, who even
then, as we learn from the Catholic Directory, was a
Cameriere Segreto of His Holiness and resident at the Vat­
ican. It is also possible that at this very early date in his
career, when the young medium had hardly been six months
on the Continent, and had never remained long in one place,
his fame as a psychic had awakened no echo in Papal Rome.
In that case it may quite conceivably have happened that no
special warning was addressed to him regarding spiritualistic
‘Mrs. Home, op. cit., p. 68.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 65
practices, the more so that his avowed intention of entering
a religious order would have disarmed suspicion. This pur­
pose was apparently quite serious at first, even from Mrs.
Home’s account of it. She writes:
“ Whom the king smiles on, courtiers smile on; and the gracious
bearing of the Pope was imitated by all the hierarchy of Rome
from cardinals downwards. The path that led the young convert up
to the monastery gates was strewn with roses, and amidst the ap­
plause and encouragement of all around him, he might have finally
seen those gates close upon him, but that — but that the nearer he
drew to the monastic life the less that life allured him and the
stronger became his misgivings. . . . Convinced that to shut himself
up in a convent cell would be a fatal error, he drew back and refused
to enter. This determination was no sooner arrived at than he quitted
Italy; and in company with the Branicki family came to Paris in
June, 1856.” 4
It all sounds very much like:
The Devil fell ill, the Devil a monk would be;
The Devil got well, the devil a monk was he.
At the same time I find it hard, indeed practically impos­
sible, to believe that Home, living for six weeks among the
type of Catholics to whom a budding vocation must have
introduced him, can have failed to carry away a clear under­
standing of the attitude of moral theology towards the prac­
tices of the seance room. Although his power had left him,
or perhaps more correctly, the prickings of conscience de­
terred him from exercising it, there was plenty of talk in
Rome at that date about “Magnetismus,” and under this
term was included not only hypnotism, or mesmerism, but
the whole body of related phenomena. It was in the month
of August of that very year, 1856, that the Congregation of
the Holy Office published a notable encyclical on this mat­
ter, and although Home left Rome in the preceding June,
such decrees are not issued before much discussion has taken
'Mrs. Home, op. cit., p. 69.
66 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
place and considerable interest has been awakened in the
subject in ecclesiastical circles beforehand. In this encyclical
the practices of those are denounced who “boast that they
have discovered certain principles of augury and divination,”
and the phenomena which passed under the name of “clair­
voyance” and “ somnambulism”5 were definitely condemned
as “superstitious,” while special reference is made to those
who profess “to call up the souls of the dead, to obtain re­
plies, and to discern things unknown and distant” (animus
mortuorum evocare, responsa accipere, ignota et longinqua
detegere). The conclusion is drawn that, “ whatever the
process followed,” this use of physical means to procure a
non-natural effect involves a deception which is altogether
unlawful and heretical, and is an offence against sound
principles of morality.6 Without being able to pronounce
too positively, I get the impression from Home’s manner of
speaking in his book, Incidents, that he was by no means un­
acquainted with the standpoint of Catholic moralists, and
that he was rather ingenious in so wording his references to
his psychic phenomena as apparently to justify them from
theological censure. For example, speaking of the Papal
audience granted to him, he remarks:
“ It has since been frequently said of me that at this interview with
the Pope, I had promised him that I would not have any more
manifestations; but it is hardly necessary, after what I have narrated,
to say that I could not have made any such promise, nor did he
ask any such promise to be made.” 7
Of course, Home could not promise that he would not
have any more manifestations, any more than a man could
promise that he would never see a ghost or hear the wail of
‘It is worth while to note that Dr. Haddock’s experiences with his psychic
“ Emma" were published in 1851 under the title Somnolism and Psycheism [S;V],
“The more significant passages of this encyclical are printed in Denzinger-
Bannwart, Enchiridion, nn. 1653-1654.
1
1ncidents, p. 95.
■i
f
i
1
*
f
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 67
a banshee; but Home could very well promise, and the Pope
might very sensibly have exacted a promise, that he would
never hold any more séances or deliberately provoke man­
ifestations. The very fact of his choosing to contradict an
allegation which no sane critic could put forward, points to
the fact that the medium very probably did give a demanded
pledge of the kind I have suggested. Home’s little econo­
mies in the matter of phraseology may sometimes be dis­
cerned by a comparison of his own statements with those
made, generally from manuscript materials, in the biography
which was afterwards compiled by his second wife. The
following passage, which may be quoted at length, will sup­
ply an illustration:
“In June, 1856, I went to Paris, and as I had been advised to do
by the Pope, I sought the counsel of Père de Ravignan, one of the
most learned and excellent men of the day. During the winter I
again fell ill . . . and for some time I was confined to my bed. The
time was fast drawing nigh when the year would expire, during
which my power was to be suspended. The Père de Ravignan always
assured me that as I was now a member of the Catholic Church it
would not return to me. For myself I had no opinion on the subject,
as I was quite without data except his assurance on the point.” 8
Now it seems that Père de Ravignan’s assurance was not
an absolute prophecy but a conditional one, which Mrs.
Home, no doubt from a letter, gives more correctly as fol­
lows: “ Have no fear, my child;9as long as you go on as you
are now doing, observing carefully all the precepts of our
Holy Church, your powers will not be allowed to return.”10It
is quite certain, as we shall see, that Home did not carry out
’Incidents, p. 95.
’ Home preserved several short letters from Père de Ravignan (ibid., p. 73).
They usually begin "Mon bien cher enfant." It will be remembered that at this
date the medium was only twenty-three. Three of these letters are printed in the
Second Series of Incidents in my Life, pp. 55, 56.
'°D. D. Home, His Life and Mission, p. 70.
1
L i lu
J
68 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
the condition I have italicized. Be this as it may, his account
of the renewal of the manifestations runs as follows:
“ On the night of the ioth of February, 1857, as the clock struck
twelve, I was in bed, to which I had been confined, when there came
some loud rappings in my room, a hand was placed gendy on my
brow, and a voice said, ‘Be of good cheer, Daniel, you will soon be
well.’ But a few minutes had elapsed before I sank into a quiet sleep,
and I awakened in the morning feeling more refreshed than I had
done for a long time. I wrote to the Père de Ravignan, telling him
what had occurred, and the same afternoon he came to see me. Dur­
ing the conversation loud rappings were heard on the ceiling and
on the floor, and as he was about to give me his benediction before
leaving, loud raps came on the bedstead. He left me without ex­
pressing any opinion whatever on the subject of the phenomena.” 11
It will be noticed that Home adopts the attitude of being
merely the subject of these manifestations. If we could trust
the fidelity of his account, they came to him unsought, and
since he alone had the experience, it is impossible to con­
tradict him. The same pose is maintained in the paragraph
which immediately follows, though his widow, as we shall
see, gives him away in the biography she compiled in 1888:
“The following day (Feb. n th ) I had sufficiently recovered to
take a drive, and on Friday the 13th, I was presented to their Majes­
ties at the Tuileries, where manifestations of an extraordinary nature
occurred. The following morning I called on the Père de Ravignan
to inform him of this. He expressed great dissatisfaction at my being
the subject of such visitations, and said that he would not give me
absolution unless I should at once return to my room, shut myself
up there, and not listen to any rappings or pay the slightest attention
to whatever phenomena might occur in my presence. I wished to
reason with him and to explain that I could not prevent myself from
hearing and seeing, for that God having blessed me with the two
faculties, it was not in my power to ignore them. As for shutting
myself up, I did not think, from my having before tried the experi­
ment, that it was consistent with my nervous temperament, and that
11Incidents, pp. 95, 96.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 69
the strain on my nervous system would be too great if I were thus
isolated. He would not listen to me, and told me I had no right to
reason. ‘Do as I bid you, otherwise bear the consequences.’ I left him
in great distress of mind. I wished not to be disobedient, and yet I
felt that God is greater than man, and that He having bestowed the
power of reason on me, I could not see why I should be thus deprived
of it.” 12
Anyone reading this version of the story will be led to
infer that Home, even according to the standards accepted
by Catholic theology, had done nothing blameworthy. The
manifestations had presented themselves unsolicited. The
medium had been perfectly frank with his confessor, and it
was not in his power to prevent the noises and other phe­
nomena from happening. No man was bound in conscience
to take such extraordinary precautions against a recurrence
of the phenomena as the shutting himself up in his room.
But every intelligent reader who has any acquaintance with
Père de Ravignan’s character will be satisfied that the great
preacher can have said nothing so foolish. Home had not
been merely the passive victim of this visitation of spiritual
influences. It is his widow, a quarter of a century afterwards,
who makes the matter quite plain. She informs us that the
news of the return of Home’s powers spread to the Court.
So preternaturally rapid was the diffusion of this intelligence
that two days afterwards, in spite of the medium’s invalid
condition:
“ An Imperial invitation to the Tuileries followed and he was pre­
sented to the Emperor and Empress. This was on the 13th of Feb­
ruary, and certain personages of the Court were selected to be present
at a séance held the same evening.” 13
So it was not merely that during his visit to the Tuileries
“ manifestations of an extraordinary nature occurred,” but
” Incidents in My Life, p. 96.
’’Mrs. Home, op. ctt., p. 70.
7° TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
that Home went back the same evening to hold a séance in
the presence of a company of invited guests. If he is thus
convicted of improving upon the facts to suit his purpose in
one particular, he is clearly capable of doctoring his account
in other directions. I accordingly suggest that the whole story
of the spirits’ warning that his power was to be suspended
for just a year, was nothing more than a convenient fiction.
So far as I can discover, it lacks all independent confirma­
tion. It depends upon the medium’s word alone, and there
is no evidence that it was ever heard of until Home had
grown tired of the restraints of Catholicism and wanted once
more to figure before admiring eyes as the most wonderful
magician of his time. I believe that if the real facts of the
case could come to light, it would be found that Home had
got a hint that Napoleon III was anxious to witness the phe­
nomena which had attracted so much attention in America,
England, and Italy. So flattering a prospect would have been
seductive to any young man, and there was certainly a strong
blend of snobbery in Home’s composition. He accordingly
invented the tale that the suspension of the phenomena was
not due to any religious scruple of his own, but to the action
of the spirits. By great good fortune the spirits had so ar­
ranged things that the fallow year expired and his health
was miraculously restored just in time for him to go to the
Tuileries and to be presented to the Emperor and Empress,
and thereupon a séance duly followed.14
One extremely suspicious feature in Home’s story of the
year’s suspension is a certain incident which occurred in
Paris and which he assigns in his book to the summer of the
year 1857, under the chapter heading: “ 1857-8 — France,
,4The curious thing is that an exactly similar and equally sudden recovery of
powers which Home declared to be in abeyance took place when he was invited
to attend a reception by the Czar in the Imperial Palace at St. Petersburg.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 7i
Italy and Russia — Marriage.” The account had best be given
in his own words:
“ In an hotel situated on the Boulevard des Italiens, I was intro­
duced to a family, consisting of Mr. H ------ , his wife, and their two
sons, both of whom were at that time in the English army, and
had just returned from the Crimean campaign. The father, a cool-
headed, truthful-minded man, was a countryman of mine, and our
conversation soon turned upon the wonders of second sight and
ghost seeing. Presently, whilst we were talking together, we were
startled at hearing loud sounds coming from a distant part of the
room and slowly approaching us. I at once suggested to them that
some spirit desired to communicate with us. The unseen one assented
to this by making the sounds for the alphabet,15 and the name
Grégoire was spelt out, with the additional information that he
had passed from earth, giving the time of his departure. This the
two young officers at once and strongly contradicted, for they recog­
nized in the name a very intimate friend, an officer in the French
army in the Crimea, whom they had only just left there suffering
under a slight wound, but so slight that it gave no apprehension of
an unfavourable kind. He, however, now gave them other proofs of
his identity, and during the whole of the remaining hours of the
afternoon and evening he continued to make his presence manifest.
Several times things were brought from parts of the room distant
from us and there were frequent raps and his friends felt touches.
Sounds resembling the firing of musketry were heard.” 16
The rest of the story, with the verification of the death of
“Grégoire,” is of no particular interest in the present con­
nection. The point which concerns us here is that the in­
cident did not, and could not have been taken place in the
summer of 1857, when the Crimean War had long been
over, but in the summer of 1856, when the troops were re­
turning. This fact was pointed out by a reviewer of the book
,5In this process of communicating by raps, five raps was the convention usually
adopted to indicate that the spirits wanted the alphabet to be called in order that
they might spell out a message.
1#Incidents, p. 123.
72 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
in The Spectator, and Home himself, writing to the same
journal, admitted that the date must be 1856.” It follows,
of course, from this that the incident occurred during the
supposed suspension of Home’s mediumistic faculties and
not very long after his reception into the Church. Moreover,
it cannot for a moment be maintained that Home on this
occasion was merely a passive instrument who could not
help what had happened. The alphabet was called — ob­
viously a long and cumbrous process of communication —
and the name was spelled out with other messages, while
the manifestations continued the whole afternoon and eve­
ning. None the less, Home declares in the preceding chapter
that until the power returned, as predicted, on February 10,
1857, he “had followed out Père de Ravignan’s injunctions
most conscientiously.” 18 It is evident that there is a serious
contradiction here even if we confine ourselves to the me­
dium’s own narrative, and it is not less plain that the trans­
position of the “Grégoire” incident from 1856 to 1857 was
somehow a very convenient lapse of memory in the interest
of Mr. Home’s credit for consistency. But what throws a
still more significant light upon the possible motives for this
little inversion of chronological order, is the statement made
about the convert medium in de Ponlevoy’s Life of Father
de Ravignan. Home himself has the courage to quote the
whole passage in his Incidents,19 but I prefer to use the pub­
lished English translation.
“ We cannot conclude this chapter [says Père de Ponlevoy] with­
out making some mention of that well-known American medium
” The Spectator, April 4, 1863, p. 1838.
” Incidents, p. 99.
” It must be remembered that Home’s book appeared simultaneously in French
and English and that the popularity of de Ponlevoy’s Vie du R. P. Xavier de
Ravignan was so great among all classes of French readers that its allegations
could not be passed over in silence.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 73
who possessed the unfortunate talent of turning other things besides
tables, and of calling up the dead for the amusement of the living.
Much has been said, even in the newspapers, about his close and
pious intimacy with Father de Ravignan; and it seems that an at­
tempt has been made to use an honoured name as a passport to in­
troduce into France and establish there these precious discoveries of
the New World.
“ The facts simply stated are as follows: It is quite true that after
the young man had been converted in Rome, he was there furnished
with an introduction to Father de Ravignan, but at this time he had
given up his magic together with his Protestantism, and he was wel­
comed with the interest which is due from a priest to every soul,
ransomed with the blood of Jesus Christ, and especially, perhaps, to
a soul which is converted and brought back to the bosom of the
Church. On his arrival in Paris he was again absolutely forbidden
to return in any way to his old practices. Father de Ravignan, agree­
ably to the principles of the faith which condemns all superstition,
prohibited under the severest penalties he could inflict, all participa­
tion in or presence at these dangerous and sometimes guilty proceed­
ings. Once the unhappy medium, beset by I know not what man or
devil, was unfaithful to his promise: he was received with a severity
which prostrated him. I chanced at the time to come into the room
and I saw him rolling on the ground and writhing like a worm at
the feet of the priest, so righteously indignant. The Father was
touched by this frenzy of repentance, raised him up and pardoned
him, but, before dismissing him, exacted a written promise con­
firmed by an oath. But a notorious relapse soon took place, and the
servant of God breaking off all relations with this slave of the spirits
sent him word never again to appear in his presence.” 20
The “notorious relapse” was evidently the seance given by
Home before the Emperor at the Tuileries, the fame of
which spread even to America. The other backsliding, which
under Pere’s de Ravignan’s severe rebuke elicited such a
“frenzy of repentance,” may well have been this very “Gre-
*A . de Ponlevoy, S.J., IJfe of Father de Ravignan. Eng. trans., pp. 545—
546.
(French edit., II. pp. 298-299.) I have corrected one or two phrases in the
English version.
74 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
goire” episode which has just been recounted. Home was
forced to make some reply to the uncompromising indict­
ment of Father de Ponlevoy. After quoting the passage he
comments as follows:
“ If the rest of the book is not more truthful than this statement it
is certainly not worth reading. The good Father de Ravignan well
knew that I was not an American, and that this power had begun
with me before I ever saw America, for I had told him all my history.
He also knew that I never invoked the spirits.21 No good name is,
or ever will be, required to introduce, or accredit a God-given truth,
and I know far too well the power of facts to think that they re­
quired the passport of even Father de Ravignan’s name. His biogra­
pher must have had a limited education too, both religious and histori­
cal, to write of these things as being the ‘fine discoveries of the New
World,’ for they are readily to be traced in every country of which
any record is preserved to us.22 It is perfectly untrue that I ever ab­
jured any magical or other processes, for I never knew anything of
such, and therefore I could not abjure them.” 23
Home then declares that he told Father de Ravignan that
the spirits would return to him on February io, 1857, but
that the Father assured him there was no fear of that as long
as he went to the sacraments. “ I followed his inductions most
conscientiously, but on the very day promised they came as
I have described.” Finally the medium asserts:
“ I never yet violated any promise to my knowledge, and as to the
biographer coming in and finding me rolling on the ground and
crawling like a worm, it is an entire falsehood. But had it even
been true, it would not have been the place of a priest to make such
a thing public. If I took an oath, and wrote it down as alleged,
''This seems to me a very quibbling reply. To form a circle and to sit await­
ing manifestations, to do this in a darkened room in order to observe “ spirit
lights” (Incidents, pp. 25, 33, 36, 38, 49, 66, 72, etc.) is surely a manner of in­
voking spirits.
“ And yet the spiritualists, both of England and America, every year celebrate
the 31st of March as the anniversary of the foundation of modern Spiritualism,
which took place in 1848 at Hydesville, New York.
” Incidents, p. 98.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 75
that writing will have been kept. Let it be forthcoming to save the
character of this Father A. de Ponlevoy, that he may prove the truth
of the statement he makes. In the meantime, I say that it is without
even any foundation of truth. The last time I saw the good Father
de Ravignan, I would only reason with him, for as I then said to
him, no man had a right to forbid that which God gave. I left him
without confessing even, so that I had not been on my knees at all,
much less crawling like a worm.”
No impartial person who will make acquaintance with
Père de Gabriac’s Life of de Ponlevoy, a man who became
at a later date Provincial and Master of Novices, and who
for his austerity, charity, and holiness was universally re­
vered, can for a moment believe that his description of the
scene between Home and Père de Ravignan was an un­
scrupulous fabrication. It seems equally impossible to sup­
pose that it was a case of mistaken identity, or that Home
had fallen into a trance state and did not know what he was
doing. There is practically no choice but to conclude that
one of the two was telling a deliberate untruth, and can we
hesitate to decide on which side the perjury lay ? Home had
every motive of interest impelling him to contradict a story
in which he played so ignominious a part. He was also by
nature an intensely sensitive man. On the other hand, Père
de Ponlevoy had no adequate motive for inventing such a
tale. He almost certainly would not have touched on the
matter at all, except for the fact that Home more suo was
magnifying his acquaintance with the great preacher and
had managed to convey that this intimacy was equivalent to
an approval of his mediumship. It may be noted that at a later
date (January, 1864), after the first series of Home’s Inci­
dents in My Life had been published in English and French,
the medium was banished from the States of the Church on
account of his spiritualistic practices. Thereupon he en­
deavoured, though without success, to induce the British
76 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Government to make his expulsion an occasion for diplo­
matic intervention. But the story (recounted at wearisome
length in the second series of Incidents) is too long to tell
here. It will be sufficient for my present purpose to have
shown that there was certainly a strain of insincerity in
Home’s character, and that his air of frankness and geniality
was, at least to some extent, a calculated pose. It does not
seem to me that this invalidates the evidence for his astound­
ing phenomena, but it should probably render us cautious in
accepting any statement for which we have no better author­
ity than the medium’s own word.
There will be occasion in future chapters to make frequent
reference to the manifestations produced by Home. Sir A.
C. Doyle has described him as “the most remarkable man
since the Apostles,” and as one who was “ in some aspects
more than a man.” He tells us further that he was “of so
sweet a nature and so charitable a disposition that the union
of all qualities would seem almost to justify those who, to
Home’s great embarrassment, were prepared to place him
upon a pedestal above humanity.”24 It must be admitted,
however, that the judgment expressed by others, in their
estimate of Home’s character was not so favourable. Mr.
Frank Podmore, who was a resolute sceptic, but who had
not apparently come into personal contact with the medium,
states in his book Modern Spiritualism:
“ There can be no doubt that he [Home] produced on most per­
sons the impression of a highly emotional, joyous, childlike nature,
full of generous impulses, and lavish of affection to all comers. That
he possessed in full measure the defects of his temperament there
can be as little doubt; affections so lightly given were wont to be as
lightly recalled: vanity seems to have been the permanent element in
his character; he basked in admiration; for the rest he showed
“ Doyle, The Vital Message, p. 55.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 77
throughout a disposition to take life easily, and to look out for ‘soft
jobs.’ In short, as Mr. Andrew Lang has described him, ‘a Harold
Skimpole, with the gift of divination.’ The malignant side of his
character showed but rarely, and then chiefly in his attitude towards
rival mediums. But it flashed out when his vanity was wounded;
and after his second marriage he treated many of his old friends with
indifference and some with marked ingratitude!” 25
Mr. Stainton Moses, who did know Home personally and
who was himself a medium of considerable power, tells us
that Home “accepted the theory of the return in rare in­
stances of the departed, but believes with me that most of the
manifestations proceed from a low order of spirits who hover
near the earth plane” ; adding further “he is a thoroughly
good, honest, weak and very vain man, with little intellect
and no ability to argue or defend his faith.”20Home, was cer­
tainly not devoid of ability in certain directions. He gave reci­
tations and readings which were remarkable for dramatic
power, he played the piano with feeling, and, though a man
of little or no education, he seems to have acquired a fair
conversational knowledge of French and Russian. The very
fact that, in spite of his humble origin, he managed to get
himself accepted in high aristocratic circles, not only in Eng­
land, but also in France, Italy, and Russia, seems to prove
that he possessed a certain adaptability. The two Russian
ladies whom he successively married both belonged to dis­
tinguished families who were received at Court, and there
is good reason to believe that both wives were devoted to
him. Still, even Sir A. C. Doyle seems to have discovered at
a later time that Home, in his private capacity, was not
quite the ideal character he had previously depicted. The
“ Podmore, Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II, p. 228.
“ Stainton Moses as reported in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research, Vol. IX, p. 293.
78 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
frank statement made in the following passage is creditable
to the writer’s honesty of purpose.
“ Whilst upon this subject [writes Doyle] I may say that when in
Australia I had some interesting letters from a solicitor named Rymer.
All students of Spiritualism will remember that when Daniel Home
first came to England in 1855 he received great kindness from the
Rymer family, who then lived at Ealing. Old Rymer treated him
entirely as one of the family. This Bendigo Rymer was the grandson
of Home’s benefactor and he had no love for the great medium be­
cause he considered that he had acted with ingratitude towards his
people. The actual letters of his father, which he permitted me to
read, bore out this statement, and I put it on record because I have
said much in praise of Home and the balance should be held true.
These letters, dating from about ’57, show that one of the sons of
old Rymer was sent to travel upon the Continent to study art and
that Home was his companion. They were as close as brothers, but
when they reached Florence and Home became a personage in so­
ciety there, he drifted away from Rymer, whose letters are those of
a splendid young man. Home’s health was already indifferent, and
while he was laid up in his hotel, he seems to have been fairly kid­
napped by a strong-minded society lady of title, an Englishwoman
living apart from her husband. For weeks he lived at her villa,
though the state of his health would suggest that it was rather as
patient than lover. What was more culpable was that he answered
the letters of his comrade very rudely and showed no sense of grati­
tude for all the family had done for him. I have read the actual
letters and confess that I was chilled and disappointed. Home was
an artist, as well as a medium, the most unstable combination pos­
sible; full of emotions, flying quickly to extremes, capable of hero­
isms and self-denials, but also of vanities and ill-humour. On this
occasion the latter side of his character was too apparent.” 27
In spite of these unamiable traits, it still remains true that
Home as a medium was never detected in fraud. I believe
I have read all that has been written on the subject, but the
various stories told to Home’s discredit, of his having shuffled
r A. C. Doyle, The Wanderings of a Spiritualist, pp. 17 1—
172.
THE CONVERSION OF HOME 79
off his slipper and used his bare foot, for example, to touch
those assisting at a séance, seem to me quite unconvincing
and inadequately attested. The rationalists who were up in
arms at the very idea of preternatural phenomena were just
as ready to circulate stories to discredit Home as they were
to fabricate calumnies against the Church. One statement
must be here referred to, because it has been more than
once quoted of late, and because it seems to rest upon an
authority whom all Catholics regard with deep respect.
“ Cardinal Mercier,” we are told, “in his book La Psychologie
(II, §239 note), mentions that Home, shortly before his
death, confessed to a friend (Dr. Philip Davis) that he had
disgracefully deceived the public as to the nature of his ac­
tions. ‘Ce ri était qu’un habile charlatan/ adds the Cardi­
nal.”28Now Dr. Philip Davis in the book referred to, affirms
a dozen times over that Home’s phenomena were produced
without any kind of trickery. In the preface, and elsewhere,
Dr. Davis declares that he had been present when in a good
light a large dining-room table rose off the ground without
anyone touching it, and he describes other manifestations
which he had himself witnessed. If, on the other hand, he
says that Home, just before his death, reproached himself
with deceiving people, the deception, as Davis clearly ex­
plains, consisted in this, that the medium had pretended
that the phenomena were produced by spirits, whereas he
did not know how they were produced, and doubted the
existence of any such spirits. The Cardinal’s statement,
which occurs only in a casual footnote, was probably made
upon some secondhand report of what Davis had written.
wLa Fin du Monde des Esprits; sec pp. 287-289. There seems to be some ques­
tion as to the identity of the writer of this book. It has been alleged that the
name “ Dr. Philip Davis’* was merely a pseudonym adopted by a writer who had
no connection with the medical profession.
8o TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
No one who examines the book La Fin du Monde des
Esprits could for a moment suppose that the writer meant
to charge Home with trickery. The whole work is written
in a directly contrary sense.
Finally, not the least surprising of the anomalies in the
career of Daniel D. Home is the religious attitude of his
first wife, nee Alexandrina de Kroll, who was a goddaughter
of the Czar Nicholas of Russia. In an appendix to Home’s
book Incidents in My Life (first series) is an account written
by Mary Howitt (who eventually herself became a Catholic)
of Mrs. Home’s last days on earth. She died of consumption,
at her sister’s residence, Chateau Laroche, Dordogne, France,
on July 3, 1862, being then only 22 years old. When “ Sadia”
learned from her doctors that she was doomed, she, from
the first, showed perfect resignation, and Mrs. Howitt says
of her:
“ The sting was already taken from death, nor through the whole
after-trials and sufferings of her physical frame did she lose her
equanimity or firm confidence in the future. This calmness indeed,
became the most striking feature of her long and painful illness. It
was so profound and marked as to be almost phenomenal, and was
noticed as such by the eminent physicians who attended her in Lon­
don and subsequently in France, as well as by the Bishop of Peri-
gueux,29 who frequently visited her during the latter part of her
earthly life. The last Sacraments were administered to her by the
Bishop, who wept like a child and who remarked that ‘although
he had been present at many a death-bed for heaven, he had never
seen one equal to hers.’ ”
After dwelling upon her singularly joyous spirit, as one
who with the simplicity of a little child accepted the divine
love as a natural gift, the writer continues:
“ This must have been Monseigneur Charles T. Baudry, who himself died in
March, 1863, nine months later. He had previously been a much-esteemed pro­
fessor of theology at Saint-Sulpice.
TH E CONVERSION OF HOME 81
“ She loved the Saviour and rejoiced in Him, responding to His
unspeakable goodness with the whole allegiance of her soul, but
Gethsamene and the bloody hill of the Crucifixion were not present
to her mind; the agony and woe had no place in her experience.
She was, it must be remembered, the embodiment of her own
Greek church; of that church in which she was educated, the most
ancient faith of which has ever recognised the Saviour less as the
Crucified than the Arisen, the triumphant over suffering, sin, and
death, as the Victor not the Victim, as the Lord who said to His
chosen ones: ‘Rejoice that your names are written in heaven.’ ”
There is much in these expressions which is surprising,
though we must, of course, remember that Mary Howitt
was not at this time a Catholic, and would probably, if
questioned, have called herself a Christian Spiritualist. We
are further told that during her illness “ Mrs. Home com­
menced to see and converse with the denizens of the spir­
itual world,” notably her mother and father, and the mother
of her husband.
“Frequently also, during the first three months and last two months
of her illness, not only she, but all those about her, heard delicious
strains of spirit music, sounding like a perfect harmony of vocal
sounds. During the last month, also, the words were most distinctly
heard, and were recognized as the chants for the dying used in the
Russian church.”
None the less the funeral service is stated to have been
performed by the vicar-general of the diocese, and the serv­
ants and peasantry seem to have paid her remarkable tributes
of respect and affection. One would be disposed to think
that Mrs. Howitt had misconceived the whole situation, or
had perhaps accepted unquestioningly the husband’s highly
imaginative version of these last scenes. But the third Earl
of Dunraven, who was a practising Catholic, and knew
Home well at a later date, quotes without suspicion the state-
82 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
ment that the Bishop of Périgueux administered the last
Sacraments to Home’s first wife.
That the first Mrs. Home shared her husband’s beliefs as
to his intercourse with spirits in the beyond can hardly be
doubted, and we have evidence that she was frequently pres­
ent at his séances. On the other hand, he states quite posi­
tively in his Incidents in My Life (first series) that they
“ were married first in the private chapel of the country
house of my brother-in-law according to the rites of the
Greek Church, and afterwards, at the church of St. Cath­
erine according to the rites of the Romish Church.” The
whole situation is very puzzling and I have no adequate
explanation of it. My only purpose is to state without preju­
dice the facts so far as they are known to me. The vicar-
general of Perigueux, who is said to have presided at the
burial of Mrs. Home, was Msgr. Félix de Las Cases, who
in 1867 was consecrated Bishop of Constantine and Hippo
in Algeria, by Msgr. (afterwards Cardinal) Lavigerie.
C h a p t e r V
“D A N G ER; K EEP OFF T H E ICE”
In a n “explanatory addendum” inserted in the tenth edition
of Raymond, Sir Oliver Lodge, replying to certain criticisms,
remarks:
“ One difficulty which good people feel about allowing themselves
to take comfort from the evidence (i.e., the evidence for survival,
obtained through mediums) is the attitude of the Church to it and
the fear that we are encroaching on dangerous and forbidden ground.
I have no wish to shirk the ecclesiastical point of view: it is indeed
important, for the Church has great influence. But I must claim
that Science can pay no attention to ecclesiastical notice-boards: we
must examine wherever we can, and I do not agree that any region
of inquiry can legitimately be barred out by authority.
“Occasionally the accusation is made that the phenomena we en­
counter are the work of devils; and we are challenged to say how
we know that they are not of evil character. To that the only answer
is the ancient one — ‘by their fruits.’ I will not elaborate it. St. Paul
gave a long list of the fruits of the spirit.” 1
Sir Oliver clearly means to imply that the fruits of Spir­
itualism are in substance identical with the fruits of the
Spirit — charity, joy, peace, etc., as enumerated by St. Paul.
Perhaps we may go with him so far as to agree that these
virtues are naturally fostered by a belief in immortality and
all which that involves. But Spiritualism, after all, is not the
only creed which teaches that man was created for higher
ends than his individual well-being in the world in which
he finds himself. On the other hand, if the Church has
banned Spiritualism, she has not banned psychic research,
1Raymond, p. XI.
83
84 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
neither has she, despite a widespread impression to the con­
trary, pronounced all the phenomena of mediumship and
the various forms of automatism to be necessarily diabolic
in origin. The “ecclesiastical notice-boards” complained of
do not, then, bear the legend, “Trespassers will be prosecuted,”
but they are, on the other hand, very necessary warnings.
What we are meant to read upon them is “ Danger; keep
off the ice.” Such signals are set up to restrain the public
from crowding in their thousands upon a surface imper­
fectly frozen or which has become rotten and treacherous.
Though the skillful and wary skater may be able to dart
along in comparative safety, the neophyte cannot do so, still
less a troop of neophytes, and we should have a poor opinion
of the man who makes a grievance of such a prohibition and
exhorts his fellow-citizens not to submit to tyrannous inter­
ference. Undoubtedly the Church regards Spiritualism with
profound distrust, and it is precisely in its evil fruits, or at
best its barren and deceptive promises, that she finds the
justification of her attitude. It is the purpose of the present
chapter to try to set out concisely some of the chief grounds
for this condemnation, but before going further I should
like to make one quotation from a distinguished foreign
scientist, to show that, in declaring that Catholics under
suitable conditions are not debarred from psychical re­
search, I am only stating what is well known even to anti­
clericals on the Continent. Dr. Joseph Maxwell, of Bordeaux,
in his important work, Les Phénomènes Psychiques, writes
as follows:
“The intolerance of certain savants is equalled by that of certain
dogmas. To take an example. Catholicism considers psychical phe­
nomena as the work of the devil. Is it worth while at this hour to
discuss so obsolete a theory? I think not. However, superior ecclesias­
tical authorities, with the tact and sentiment of opportunism which
they often show, permit many Catholics to undertake the experi-
"DANGER, KEEP OFF" 85
mental study of psychical facts. I cannot blame them for recommend­
ing prudent abstention to the mass of the faithful; spiritism appears
to me an adversary with which they will have to reckon very seri­
ously some day.” 2
In confirmation of this, one may appeal to the excellent
essay which appeared not very long since in the series Philo­
sophie und Grenzwissenschaften published at Innsbruck.
Dr. Alois Gatterer, a Jesuit Father and professor of that
city, obtained permission to attend sittings with the mediums
Rudi Schneider and Frau Marie Silbert, and he availed him­
self of these personal experiences to compile a sober and
admirably documented volume which is called Der wissen­
schaftliche Okkultismus und sein Verhältnis zur Philo­
sophie.3 Both from his own observations in the séance room
and from his study of much printed evidence, Father Gat­
terer has persuaded himself that beyond all reasonable doubt
certain phenomena, both of telekinesis (movement of ob­
jects without contact) and materialisation, do take place in
the presence of some of the best mediums. But for the mo­
ment the conclusions he arrived at are not to the point.
We are here concerned with the Church’s warnings, and
the dangers I propose to discuss, the fruits, in other words,
of attempted communication with the spirits of the dead,
may be ranged under the following five headings. It will
be convenient perhaps to give them in this summary form
before proceeding to consider them more in detail. Experi­
ence shows, then, so Catholics contend:
i. That in these attempts to communicate influences are
encountered which are directly evil and malignant.
*J. Maxwell: Metaphysical Phenomena (Eng. Trans.), p. 396. This translation is
introduced by prefatory notes both from Professor Richet and from Sir Oliver
Lodge.
“Felizian Rauch (Innsbruck, 1927).
86 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
2. That the communications themselves are unreliable.
3. That systems of religious belief are assumed or ex­
pounded by the spirits, which, while often mutually con­
tradictory, are nearly always subversive of Catholic teaching.
4. That such pretended communications after eighty years
have added nothing to our knowledge and have brought no
benefit to mankind.
5. That the menace to health and to mental and moral
sanity is not inconsiderable.
I
Let me deal first with the question of directly malignant
influences. So far as I am aware, none of the more representa­
tive spiritualists, from the days of Judge Edmonds to the
present time, question the reality of these unpleasant com­
municators. The Spirit Tcachings of Mr. W. Stainton Moses,
the eighth edition of which was brought out in 1918 by the
London Spiritualist Alliance, may be looked upon as a clas­
sic in this matter. Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
and a number of other leaders in psychical research, have
always regarded this medium as a witness above suspicion.
Sir William Barrett has written of him: “ I knew Mr. Moses
personally for many years and, like other of his friends, I
believe he was wholly incapable of deceit.”4 Well, it would
hardly be possible to speak more strongly or more copiously
about “the foes of God and man, enemies of goodness, min­
isters of evil,”5 than does Mr. Moses echoing his spirit guides.
He does not call these evil beings devils, because in his view
they are the souls of men once on earth that have been “ low
in taste and impure in habit,” souls which are “not changed
‘Barrett, On the Threshold of the Unseen, p. 73. Sir William, as I can attest,
spoke quite as strongly in favour of his friend in private conversation.
sSpirit Teachings (8th ed.), p. 13.
“DANGER, KEEP OFF" 87
save in the accident of being freed from the body,” but “they
have banded themselves together, under the leadership of
intelligence still more evil, to malign us {i.e., the highly de­
veloped and beneficent spirits) and to hamper our work.”6
This is a fundamental point in Mr. Moses’ Spirit Teachings.
It is dwelt on with emphasis in his first chapter, and solemn
warnings against the danger of intercourse with these be­
ings recur constantly throughout the book. The medium
was evidently at one time so much impressed that he almost
came to believe that “the result of Spiritualism is not for
good.” But the control, “ Imperator,” replies: “You err,
friend. Blame man’s insensate folly, which will choose the
low and grovelling rather than the pure and elevated” (p.
99). But still more explicitly “ Imperator” declares at a later
stage:
“ It is the old battle between what you call the good and the evil.
. . . Into the ranks of that opposing army gravitate spirits of all de­
grees of malignity, wickedness, cunning and deceit: those who are
actively spurred on by the hatred of light which an unenlightened
spirit has. . . . The poor wreck whose lusts have survived the death
of that body in which and for which alone he lived, have survived
the means of direct bodily gratification, finds his resource in seizing
on an impressionable medium, and goading him on to sin, so that
he may get such poor enjoyment as alone remains to him.” 7
But are not the majority of potential mediums, or sensi­
tives, apt to be “impressionable,” and consequently are they
not particularly exposed to this form of danger ? In another
work of Mr. Moses, also reprinted not long since by the
London Spiritualist Alliance, in a section headed “The Gates
being ajar a Motley Crowd rushes in,” we read how, “un­
fortunately for us,” the spirits that are “least progressive,
least developed, least spiritual, and most material and earthly
’Ibid., p. 13.
1Spirit Teachings, p. 243.
in
88 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
hover round the confines,” and are the most eager to seek
communication with living men.8 He tells us also that
“in proportion to the undeveloped character of the spirit
will be its power over gross matter, its cunning and in some
cases its malignity.”9 The picture he draws of the fate of
many mediums — he seems to imply that this is almost the
more common experience — is not an attractive one.
“ Too often what happens is this. A number of persons assemble,
most of them densely ignorant of any condition to be observed;
some animated by mere curiosity, a few by the dumb desire to see
what can be had through the only source open to them as evidence
of a future life; all, in nine cases out of ten, unfit, for one or more
of many causes, for the solemn work they have undertaken. . . . The
burden is more than he [the medium] can bear; and if he be a
model of integrity, a very storehouse of psychic power, he becomes
distressed and broken down. His nerves are shattered; he is open
to the assaults of all the malicious, tricksy spirits that his vocation
brings him in contact with, and as a consequence he is in grievous
peril . . . of moral, or mental, or physical deterioration. Then comes
the necessary sequel: temptation, obsession, fraud, buffoonery, and
all that we so lament as associated with phenomenal spiritualism.” 10
Now, of course, we are perfectly free to believe either (i)
that Stainton Moses (as Mr. F. Podmore and Dr. Tuckett
not obscurely hint) was a fraudulent person himself; or (2)
that he was honestly deluded by the figments of his own
subconsciousness; or (3) that he actually received messages
from the other world which warranted these statements.
But it is the men who hold this third view, men like Sir
Oliver Lodge and Sir A. Conan Doyle, who reproach the
Church with her narrow intolerance in condemning inter­
course with the dead. Consequently, against such objectors
she is free to reply: “On your own showing the medium is
8Spirit Identity, p. 16.
8
Spirit Teachings, p. 230.
'"Spirit Identity, p. 21.
"DANGER, KEEP OFF” 89
beset with spirits who are malignant, depraved, cunning,
and untruthful. You admit that it is perilous to put oneself
in communication with such influences. The evil is certain;
the good problematical. Surely, then, it is the part of wisdom
to abstain.”
Neither must it be supposed that Stainton Moses stood
alone in his recognition of the power and malice of these
evil influences. Judge Edmonds, in the very early days of
the movement, held much the same views, and we have
from him a most curious account of an incident which may
well serve as an illustration of this aspect of mediumistic ex­
perience. Edmonds was an American whose eminence as a
jurist was spoken of with sincere respect by Lord Brougham.
His integrity of conduct and the honesty of his spiritualistic
convictions, for which he made great sacrifices, have never
been questioned. He tells us how one day, holding a sitting
with his intimate friend, Dr. Dexter, who acted as his me­
dium, Dexter was suddenly controlled, i.e., possessed, by a
spirit which purported to be that of a man whom Edmonds
had lately sentenced to death for a brutal murder. He de­
scribes how Dr. Dexter’s hand, in the trance state, wrote
with violent contortions sentences of angry abuse. But this
was not all. “ Several times,” Edmonds goes on, “the pencil,
paper and books were thrown at my head with great violence.
Dr. Dexter’s fist was doubled, and thrust out towards me as
if he wanted to strike me, and once or twice he looked at
me with concentrated feelings of hate and defiance.” 11 The
fact that Judge Edmonds claims to have tamed this brutal
spirit by forbearance and a fearless demeanour does not alter
the alarming character of such an experience. Neither, it
"Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism (New York: 18 53-18 55), Vol. II, pp.
5 11-5 12 .
88 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
hover round the confines,” and are the most eager to seek
communication with living men.8 He tells us also that
“ in proportion to the undeveloped character of the spirit
will be its power over gross matter, its cunning and in some
cases its malignity.”9 The picture he draws of the fate of
many mediums — he seems to imply that this is almost the
more common experience — is not an attractive one.
“ Too often what happens is this. A number of persons assemble,
most of them densely ignorant of any condition to be observed;
some animated by mere curiosity, a few by the dumb desire to see
what can be had through the only source open to them as evidence
of a future life; all, in nine cases out of ten, unfit, for one or more
of many causes, for the solemn work they have undertaken. . . . The
burden is more than he [the medium] can bear; and if he be a
model of integrity, a very storehouse of psychic power, he becomes
distressed and broken down. His nerves are shattered; he is open
to the assaults of all the malicious, tricksy spirits that his vocation
brings him in contact with, and as a consequence he is in grievous
peril . . . of moral, or mental, or physical deterioration. Then comes
the necessary sequel: temptation, obsession, fraud, buffoonery, and
all that we so lament as associated with phenomenal spiritualism.” 10
Now, of course, we are perfectly free to believe either (i)
that Stainton Moses (as Mr. F. Podmore and Dr. Tuckett
not obscurely hint) was a fraudulent person himself; or (2)
that he was honestly deluded by the figments of his own
subconsciousness; or (3) that he actually received messages
from the other world which warranted these statements.
But it is the men who hold this third view, men like Sir
Oliver Lodge and Sir A. Conan Doyle, who reproach the
Church with her narrow intolerance in condemning inter­
course with the dead. Consequently, against such objectors
she is free to reply: “On your own showing the medium is
*Spirit Identity, p. 16.
‘Spirit Teachings, p. 230.
10Spirit Identity, p. 21.
“DANGER, KEEP OFF” 89
beset with spirits who are malignant, depraved, cunning,
and untruthful. You admit that it is perilous to put oneself
in communication with such influences. The evil is certain;
the good problematical. Surely, then, it is the part of wisdom
to abstain.”
Neither must it be supposed that Stainton Moses stood
alone in his recognition of the power and malice of these
evil influences. Judge Edmonds, in the very early days of
the movement, held much the same views, and we have
from him a most curious account of an incident which may
well serve as an illustration of this aspect of mediumistic ex­
perience. Edmonds was an American whose eminence as a
jurist was spoken of with sincere respect by Lord Brougham.
His integrity of conduct and the honesty of his spiritualistic
convictions, for which he made great sacrifices, have never
been questioned. He tells us how one day, holding a sitting
with his intimate friend, Dr. Dexter, who acted as his me­
dium, Dexter was suddenly controlled, i.e., possessed, by a
spirit which purported to be that of a man whom Edmonds
had lately sentenced to death for a brutal murder. He de­
scribes how Dr. Dexter’s hand, in the trance state, wrote
with violent contortions sentences of angry abuse. But this
was not all. “ Several times,” Edmonds goes on, “ the pencil,
paper and books were thrown at my head with great violence.
Dr. Dexter’s fist was doubled, and thrust out towards me as
if he wanted to strike me, and once or twice he looked at
me with concentrated feelings of hate and defiance.” 11 The
fact that Judge Edmonds claims to have tamed this brutal
spirit by forbearance and a fearless demeanour does not alter
the alarming character of such an experience. Neither, it
"Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism (New York: 18 53-18 55), Vol. II, pp.
5 11-5 12 .
9
0 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
would seem, are these manifestations of malignity on the
part of the spirits altogether things of the past.
There was a little book published on this subject in 1919,
which seems to me of very high value both from the clear
presentation of the results of attempted communication with
the spirit world and from the frank admission of difficulties
and dangers. Under the title, Voices from the Void, Mrs.
Travers Smith, who is the eldest daughter of the late Pro­
fessor Edward Dowden and niece of John Dowden, Bishop
of Edinburgh, has printed her impressions of a long series
of personal experiments in automatism. From the outset one
is led to recognise the sobriety of judgment with which the
writer approaches these problems and the care which she
takes to avoid exaggeration. I may confess that I myself am
the more impressed with her trustworthiness because in its
general character her account exactly agrees with much that
I have read in unbiased sources elsewhere, and agrees also
with the experiences of private friends of my own of whose
integrity I have every reason to be assured and who can have
had no possible motive for wishing to mislead me. Mrs. Trav­
ers Smith is evidently in full accord with her friend, Sir Wil­
liam Barrett, who often took part in her experiments, and be­
lieves with him that “ spiritism reveals the existence of some
mysterious power which may be of a more or less malignant
character,” and that “ it is necessary to be on our guard
against the invasion of our will by a lower order of intel­
ligence and morality.”12 On the other hand, it is perhaps
worth noticing that when Sir William, in another passage,
speaks of the regrettable experience of certain friends of his
own, he cannot be thinking of Mrs. Travers Smith.
“ It not infrequently happens [he writes], as some friends of mine
found, that after some interesting and veridical messages and answers
’’Sir W. Barrett, The Threshold of the Unseen (19 17 ), p. 250.
"DANGER, KEEP OFF" 9
i
to questions had been given, mischievous and deceptive communica­
tions took place, interspersed with profane and occasionally obscene
language. How far the sitters’ subliminal self is responsible for this
it is difficult to say; they were naturally disquieted and alarmed, as
the ideas and words were wholly foreign to their thoughts, and they
threw up the whole matter in disgust.” 13
Seeing that Mrs. Travers Smith has never given up her
practice of automatism, she cannot be one of the persons
here referred to, but she also bears testimony to the inter­
vention of similar undesirable influences. After furnishing
an account, too long to quote, of the spirit of a suicide who
persistently attempted to communicate, and affected Mrs.
Smith herself with such an abnormal depression that she
adds, “ I have never experienced such sensations before or
since,” 14 the narrative goes on:
“This was, I presume, a clear case of attempted obsession, first of
Mr. X, then of me; it seemed quite clear that some external entity
of a most dangerous kind was present at these sittings; it illustrates
one of the greatest dangers connected with psychic work.
“ I cannot urge too much upon my readers that the greatest caution
should be used in the choice of sitters, and also that unpleasant com­
municators should be dismissed; the dangers of obsession are hardly
realized by those who have not had some experience of them.” 15
This is a matter to which the writer more than once
recurs. For example, she warns her readers:
“ Never encourage communicators who profess to have led evil and
criminal lives. The fact that they will tell you these things generally
means that they will eventually attempt obsession.” 16
One other passage in this account may be given by way
of illustration:
“ Almost immediately Mr. X fell again into trance conditions and
"Op. dt., p. 322.
“ Travers Smith, Voices from the Void, with an Introduction by Sir William
Barrett (19 19 ), p. 100.
"‘Ibid., p. 101.
"Ibid.
TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
92
appeared gready distressed, complaining of some very depressing in­
fluence, and we broke off the sitting as before. Later in the evening
the Rev. S. H. (Mr. Savill Hicks, a Unitarian minister of Dublin)
hypnotised Mr. X, put a pencil into his hand, and asked him to do
some automatic writing. He wrote very violently the same message
again and again: ‘Send this terrible thing away; it’s coming again.’
We thought it best to put an end to the sitting.”
It is quite plain that the writer, after her six or seven
years’ experience with the ouija board, in which, be it noted,
she never attempted to induce physical manifestations of any
kind beyond the mere writing of messages, was nevertheless
convinced of the reality of the danger which intercourse with
possibly malicious spirits was likely to create.
One might fill a volume if any attempt were made to
gather up such warnings and to recount the experiences
which led to them. As previously stated, this type of trouble
began as soon as the Fox children were transferred to
Rochester immediately after the first episodes at Hydesville.
Whether the presence of a certain Calvin Brown, who was
the centre of these disturbances, contributed to the result,
there is no way of determining, but violent racketings went
on. Leah, the eldest sister, declared that the feeling of the
family was “ strongly adverse to all this strange and uncanny
thing.”
“ We regarded it [she continues] as a great misfortune, as an afflic­
tion which had fallen upon us; how, whence or why, we knew not.
The influence of the surrounding opinion of neighbours and the
country round about, reacted upon us in conformation [sic] of our
own natural and educational impressions, that the whole thing was
of evil origin, unnatural, perplexing and tormenting; while its un­
popularity tended to cast a painful shadow upon us. We resisted it,
struggled against it, and constantly and earnestly prayed for deliver­
ance from it, even while a strange fascination attached to these mar­
vellous manifestations thus forced upon us against our will by in-
B
“DANGER, KEEP O FF’ 93
visible agencies and agents whom we could neither resist, control nor
understand.” 17
Nearly all self-respecting mediums give advice similar to
that just quoted from Mrs. Travers Smith; for example:
“ Never for one moment attempt spirit communication with a pur­
pose of levity or idle curiosity. Your results will be leaden or sodden,
you will draw to yourself earth-bound and still evil spirits, no further
advanced than when they went over, mischievous messages will fol­
low, and oft-times actual mental damage to yourselves!” 18
“ But you must ‘beware of strangers’ [writes another]. There
are scalawags ready to jump into all conversations, and mix things
up if they are permitted to do so.” 18
In a still more recent book on the subject, the author, who,
in spite of his advocacy of spiritistic communications, gives
proof of a certain sobriety and breadth of judgment, speaks
as follows. He is arguing against Mr. Belloc’s implication
that all communications which may possibly come from the
beyond are necessarily from evil spirits:
“ I do not for a moment deny that it is possible for dabblers in the
mysteries of communication between the two worlds to come into
contact with ‘evil spirits.’ I will even go so far as to say it is more
than probable this is precisely what will happen to those who allow
themselves to embark upon this quest actuated by no higher motives
than idle curiosity, or an unhealthy desire for sensationalism; but
having made this admission there still remains something further to
be said. In the first place it is a demonstrable fact — as serious and
reverent investigators will know — that the ‘evil spirits’ so contacted
do not belong to a special non-human creation brought into being as
evil things ab initio; they are neither more nor less than discarnate
humans who have lived, in various ways, bad and unclean lives on
earth, and have, as the result of this, remained after death in the
lower regions of the spirit world in a condition that is generally
termed ‘earth-bound.’ Having no longer the physical bodies which
''The Missing Link., P- 55-
“ Mabel V. Robertson, The Other Side of God’s Door (London: 1920), Preface.
"Thy Son Liveth (Boston: 19 18 ), p. 22.
94 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
in earth life provided them with the means of gratifying low tastes
and desires, and having still desires that are incapable of direct gratifi­
cation, they haunt the earth sphere, lying in wait, as it were, for the
opportunity of obsessing weak and vicious persons still in the flesh,
and so attaining their end vicariously. No person should attempt to
invite communication with the ‘spirit world’ until he has learned
. . . something of the nature of the research he is starting upon!”20
Like Mrs. Travers Smith, Mr. Purchas speaks from a per­
sonal experience continued through many years, and as the
administrator of important commercial interests in South
Africa, we cannot think of him merely as a neurotic vision­
ary scared by his own ghosts. I will add only one final and
still more recent testimony to the nerve-racking shocks
which may be sustained by those who expose themselves in­
cautiously to the invasion of malevolent spirits.
The name of Mrs. Osborne Leonard who figures so con­
spicuously in Sir Oliver Lodge’s Raymond as well as in the
widely circulated books of Mr. Dennis Bradley, has already
been mentioned above. According to the testimony of all
who have had relations with her — and I personally know
many such — her gifts as a medium are not only exceptional,
but she is an absolutely sincere and trustworthy person who
has never been detected in any kind of trickery. She is not
a medium for physical phenomena. Like the famous Amer­
ican, Mrs. Piper, who so profoundly impressed the psychol­
ogist, Professor William James, Mrs. Leonard is simply the
channel of communications which purport to emanate from
spirits in the beyond. These messages on many occasions
have proved to be strangely veridical, imparting information
which was not at the time known to anyone present and
*T . A. R. Purchas, The Spiritual Adventures of a Business Man (London:
1929), pp. 218—
219. Mr. Robert Blatchford, whose conversion from aggressive
rationalism to a belief in a future life made some sensation a few years ago,
attributes that conversion to Mr. Purchas and contributes a preface to the book.
Mr. Blatchford was at one time editor of The Clarion, a journal which was con­
spicuous for its hostile attitude towards the Christian revelation.
“DANGER, KEEP OFF‘ 95
which could not normally have been acquired by the me­
dium herself. Nevertheless subsequent investigation often
proved the statements made to be correct. Mrs. Leonard has
recently published an autobiography with a foreword by
Sir Oliver Lodge, and in this she recounts certain experi­
ences of hers connected with the early days before she be­
came a professional medium. One of these is very striking
as an illustration of the dangers to which the rash investi­
gator may unwittingly expose himself. With two girl friends
named Florence and Nellie, Mrs. Leonard, who already
knew that she was a sensitive, embarked upon an impromptu
seance with the definite object of obtaining materialisation
phenomena. Though the blinds were pulled down, some
light filtered in and the room was not perfectly dark. Neg­
lecting superfluous details, I quote Mrs. Leonard’s own ac­
count of what followed.
“ Suddenly I became aware of something standing between Nellie
and myself. I did not see or hear anything at this point, but the air
near me seemed filled by something unpleasant — something that
pressed against me! I looked for a cause but could see nothing, only
felt the invisible but tangible Something. ‘Don’t become imagina­
tive,’ I said to myself.
“ I then happened to glance in Nellie’s direction again. On her
right shoulder, the one nearest to me, I saw a small black patch. As
I looked it lengthened gradually. It grew larger and then took on a
curved shape which extended from her right shoulder across the
upper part of her chest. Just then the light through the blind became
a little stronger, and the line across Nellie grew plainer. I then saw
that it was not a shadow or mark — but an arm! Not an arm like
yours or mine, but a much longer, thinner arm of a darkish colour,
and it was covered with hairs!
“I wondered if I should tell Nellie what I could see. As I hesitated
I saw the arm moving upwards towards her neck. Becoming excited
myself, I was yet anxious not to startle Nellie, so made an effort to
speak quietly and naturally to her.
“I got no further than ‘Nellie, there’s an’ when she jumped up
with a piercing shriek, knocked over the chair, pushed us both to
96 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
one side, and rushed blindly for the door, which she shook violently,
forgetting in her terror that it was locked.
“ Florence had the presence of mind to find the switch and turn
on the electric light. Nellie was in a pitiable condition, white as a
sheet, and trembling from head to foot.
“ She told us that she had been aware of the same pressure that I
had felt, and knew that something was laid on her shoulder and
chest but had waited to see what would happen. Then suddenly
she felt the weight transferred to her throat, and it gave her such a
feeling of intense fear that she could bear it no longer.” 21
It will be remembered that this story is not told by an
assailant of Spiritualism but by a highly respected believer
who makes her living by what in old days would have been
called divination. It may be that the whole incident was
nothing more than a fit of nerves transmitted from one to
another of this little group of highly sensitive experimenters.
But in any case one seems justified in concluding that a pro­
cedure which leads to such episodes cannot be regarded as
either morally or physically healthy.
II
Upon the question of the untrustworthiness of communi­
cations which purport to emanate from the spirit world
there is even more to say. The most convinced believers fully
admit the difficulty — indeed the utter impossibility — of
determining how much is verdical in the messages received,
whether they come through automatic writing, or through
voice mediums, or by means of raps, or other prearranged
signals. As regards the process, it is assumed that normally
we have at least four intelligences concerned. First, there is
the spirit communicating; second, there is the “control,” 22
’’Mrs. Osborne Leonard, My Life in Two Worlds (19 3 1), p. 35.
“ Many psychic researchers prefer to regard this “ control” as a secondary per­
sonality of the medium.
"DANGER, KEEP OFF" 97
or intermediary spirit, which, owing to its privileged and
quasi-permanent relation with the medium, is able to im­
press her sensitized perceptions; third, we have the medium
herself, who materializes the message by voice or writing;
fourth, we have the sitter, or sitters, taking part in the séance,
who ask questions and also listen to, read, or record the
messages. Now from this complexity there must result grave
danger of what Sir Oliver Lodge conveniently calls “sophis­
tication,” i.e., the colouring, distorting, or interpolating of
the messages. Assuming for argument’s sake that there is a
genuine communication which some spirit on the other side
desires to transmit, it is liable to be modified, not to say per­
verted, in the course of transmission both by the preposses­
sions or mannerisms of the control, and by ideas latent in
the subconsciousness of the medium or the sitters. As I have
written elsewhere, “the plain fact remains, familiar to all
students of the subject, that when we are in possession of
what purports to be a message, we are never quite sure how
much of it is due to the communicator, how much to the
control, or how much to the subconsciousness of the me­
dium or of those present in the room.”
What is even more serious, those who seek to hold inter­
course with the dead through such channels are apparently
at the mercy of troops of freakish or impersonating spirits
who deliberately set out to mislead. “Silly spirits who wanted
to have a game” is a phrase used of one such episode by the
supposed Raymond23 communicating from the other side.
Whole chapters of Mr. Stainton Moses’ writings are devoted
to the difficulty of unmasking these “personating spirits,” as
he calls them, a constant embarrassment to which he other­
wise refers as “a class of spirits who from mischievous de-
23Raymond, p. 194.
98 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
sign or from pure sportive fun . . . frequent circles, counter­
feit manifestations, assume names and give erroneous and
misleading information.” 24 Does not Sir A. Conan Doyle
himself admit the “foolish nature of many of these messages
and the absolute falsehood of some,” and that, in spite of the
reality of inspiration, “the lapses were notable” ?20 It seems
almost impossible in such experiments to get away from an
atmosphere of downright deception. Mrs. Piper is generally
regarded as one of the most reliable mediums of whom we
have record, yet there is every reason to believe that the ac­
count which “ Phinuit,” the control under whose influence
some of her most striking early successes were achieved, gave
of his own history was a pure fiction. At a later date some
of the best results obtained by Mrs. Travers Smith, notably
the messages from Sir Hugh Lane after the Lusitania trag­
edy, were due to her control, “ Peter Rooney.” Now the ac­
count she gives of Peter Rooney runs as follows:
“ At the second or third sitting of the circle referred to, Peter
Rooney made his appearance. He stated that he was an American
Irishman; that he had had a most undesirable career and spent much
of his life in gaol; that ten days before he communicated with us he
had thrown himself under a tram-car in Boston and had been killed.
Sir William Barrett, having made careful enquiries, both from the
Governor of the State Prison at Boston, Mass., and from the Chief of
the Police in that city, found Peter Rooney’s tale an entire fabrica­
tion. A certain Peter Rooney had fallen from a tram-car in August,
1910, had suffered from a scalp wound, but was alive in 1914, so far
as could be ascertained.
“ On being upbraided by us for assuming a name and identity not
his own, Peter admitted that he had no desire that we should know
who he was, and that he had adopted this name as it was as good as
any other.” 26
*Spirit Teachings, p. 243.
“ Doyle, The New Revelation, p. 26.
x Voices from the Void, pp. 1 1 - 1 2 .
“DANGER, KEEP O FF’ 99
And yet it is through channels such as these that spirit­
ualists bid us seek the solution of the most profound mys­
teries of man’s existence and destiny. “Feda,” the control of
the medium, Mrs. Leonard, is described as “a little Indian
girl, talking (through Mrs. Leonard’s organs of speech, of
course) in the silly way they do.” 27 And we constantly read
how Feda (in the person of the medium, a middle-aged
woman, in the trance state) “jumps about and fidgets with
her hands, just as a child would when pleased,” or “jerked
about her chair, and squeaked or chuckled, after her man­
ner when indicating pleasure.” As for results, Mrs. Travers
Smith summarising her own experience as an automatist,
writes:
“ In the course of sittings extending over six or seven years many
influences have spoken through our small circle. Of these some were
obviously frauds, and impersonations were frequent. These disap­
pointments are most dispiriting to the novice in psychic experiments.
It must always be borne in mind that in order to attain to any firm
ground from which one may review one’s work and venture to form
a judgment as to whether we are or are not in touch with the spirit
world, a mass of evidence must be accumulated. This, of course,
demands great patience and perseverance, and the experimenter must
judge for himself whether the achieved results justify the expenditure
of time and labour.” 28
For an example of a case of direct deception, it will be in­
teresting to recall an experience to which Professor Flour­
noy, of Geneva, has given prominence. Madame Dupond
was a middle-aged lady, a Swiss Protestant. During a vaca­
tion ramble she met at a table d’hote a young Catholic in
whom she became interested. This lad, “Rudolph,” had
v Raymond, pp. 120, 182, 192. In Mrs. Osborne Leonard's book, My Life in
Two Worlds, we read (p. 29) “ Feda was an ancestress of mine. She had married
my great-great grandfather. My mother had often told me about an Indian girl
who married this ancestor.”
“ Travers Smith, Voices from the Void, p. 10.
100 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
fallen under the influence of a priest whom M. Flournoy
calls Don Bruno, but who seems clearly to have been the
renowned and saintly Don Bosco, now beatified. Rudolph
was on the point of joining Don Bosco’s Order; Mme.
Dupond tried to dissuade him, and he on his side apparently
kept up a correspondence with her in the hope of winning
her over to the Catholic Faith. At this stage she seems to
have taken up Spiritualism and began to practise automatic
writing. One day her hand wrote down a communication to
the following effect:
“ I am Rudolph; I died at n o’clock this morning (April 23d,
1881). You must believe what I tell you. I am happy. . . . I died at
X., far from Don Bruno ( ? Bosco). Your father brought me to you.
I did not know we could communicate thus. I am very happy. . . .
A little before my death I sent for the Professor of Oratory.29 I gave
him your letters, begging him to return them to you; he will do so.
After Communion I said good-bye to my colleagues. . . . The passage
of death resembled that of sleep. I awakened near God, near my
family and friends; it was beautiful, wonderful; I was happy and
free. . . . I am attached to you. Do not fear that I love you less be­
cause I am no longer on earth. . . . Adieu, I go to pray for you. I
am no longer Catholic, I am Christian.”
After this first announcement, communications from Ru­
dolph in the same automatic script followed daily for almost
a week, but on the 30th of April a letter came by post from
Rudolph himself, proving that, far from being dead, he was
in perfectly sound health and in the same religious disposi­
tions as before. Madame Dupond admits that during this
short time the thought of Rudolph had become a perfect
obsession with her, to such an extent that she found herself
constantly tracing the letter “ R” in the air with her fore-
” This is a ridiculous blunder of the translator. The French original reads,
le directeur de l’Oratoire. The greater houses of the Salesian Fathers are called
“ Oratories."
B
"DANGER, KEEP O FF’ i o i
finger. When disillusionment came she gave up her auto­
matic writing in disgust.30 This authentic experience was
harmless enough in its results, but it might easily have been
otherwise. Professor Flournoy subjects the details to a minute
analysis and appeals to it as confirming his theory that au­
tomatic writing is only the expression of the subliminal self,
“the submerged complex of emotional feelings and desires.”
It may be so, but personally I am much more inclined to
attribute the communication to what he calls a farçeur de V
au delà, or what Mr. Moses styles a personating spirit.
To say the truth, similar examples of direct deception have
been very numerous at all stages of the history of Spiritual­
ism, and they certainly cannot always be analyzed as the
expression of subconscious desires. Thus Capron, writing in
1855, quotes the case of Judge Hascall, an American spir­
itualist and member of Congress, who
“ had some very singular experiences, while in Washington, in regard
to information being given him to the effect of some member of his
family being sick or dead and the most solemn assurances given of
its truth; when, on writing home, he ascertained that all was well
and that the pretended information was totally false. On the other
hand, occurrences taking place at a distance, of which he had no
knowledge, were told with the greatest accuracy and truth.” 31
Further, I cannot help thinking that much of the respect
now accorded to the data and conclusions of psychical re­
search is due to the fact that its most conspicuous advocates,
men like the late F. W. Myers, Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir W.
Barrett, Sir A. Conan Doyle, Mr. J. Arthur Hill, and the
rest, have all along had the advantage of working with the
very best class of mediums, or at least of consulting the re-
” Flournoy: Esprits et Mediums (Paris: 19 11) , p. 270 seq. The English edition,
which I have quoted above, does not reproduce the whole of Flournoy’s volume.
'’Capron, Modern Spiritualism (Boston: 1855), p. 336.
102 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
liable and critical materials presented in the Proceedings of
the Society for Psychical Research. From their writings one
obtains no idea of how Spiritualism works out for the
masses, under the influence of second- or third-rate mediums,
intent only upon exploiting the folly of mankind for their
own advantage. Here is a letter which, at the time of another
great spiritualistic boom in this country, that which marked
the early seventies, was allowed to appear in The Medium,
the leading spiritualistic journal of that period. It is headed,
“ Is there any remedy for Lying Spirits ?”
“Dear Sir: Can any of your readers advise me what to do under
the following circumstances? I will state my case very briefly. Un­
fortunately the uniformity of my experience enables me to do this
very easily. I have been an earnest enquirer into spiritualism for the
past five months, and during that time I have had more than a
hundred sittings in my own house. We have had hundreds of mes­
sages and answers to questions. So far, good; this seems to me proof
of an exterior intelligence in communication with the sitters. But this
is my difficulty: all these communications have been of a lying char­
acter. For instance, I have been anxious to obtain tests of the identity
of the spirits communicating. In seeking these, the spirits have given
me what purported to be their names, with minute particulars of
their earth life, their surviving friends, etc. In every case the infor­
mation so given has proved to be utterly false. So of every other kind
of information; it has invariably been totally untrue. And this the
spirit or spirits unblushingly acknowledge after the deception has
been found out. The only explanation I can get is that they ‘like to
catch fools,’ or some such messages, accompanied by language of the
most profane character. Nor do any expedients I may adopt produce
any more satisfactory results. The falsehoods are sworn to in the
name of God, the Bible, and everything that is sacred.” 32
The first impression given by such a letter as this is that
it must have been a practical joke. But it certainly was not;
other correspondents backed it up, and some, while disagree-
nThe Medium and Daybreak. (May 2, 1874), p. 301.
"D AN GER, KEEP OFF” 103
ing, commended the candour of the editor in facing diffi­
culties.
Troubles of this sort were in no way new. The Rev. Adin
Ballou, in what must be accounted the earliest reasoned
treatise on Spiritualism which was ever printed — he himself
was a convinced believer — admits the occurrence of many
utterly deceptive messages. He tells us that “it seems rea­
sonable to suppose that the lower spheres or circles of the
spirit world are filled with gross and crudely developed
human spirits — with almost countless multitudes of souls
whose ignorance, or moral deficiency still remains such as to
predispose them to sympathize with congenial spirits in the
flesh and to repeat, when opportunity will allow, their old
follies, deceits and mischievous exploits.” 33
In quite recent times the uncertainties of communication
are admirably illustrated by a series of sittings which Mr. S.
G. Soal had with the medium Mrs. Blanche Cooper. The
account is printed at full length in the Proceedings of the
(English) Society for Psychical Research (Vol. XX XV ,
1925, pp. 471-594). In twenty-three sittings, spaced out over
several months, four notable personalities purported to com­
municate. The first was Mr. Soal’s brother, Frank, who had
been killed in the War. Speaking generally, it may be said
that a number of correct statements were made, most of
them about intimate matters which could not possibly have
been known to the medium, and some of them concerning
things which were not in the consciousness of Mr. S. G.
Soal himself, although upon investigation they proved to be
accurate. The second communicator was an entirely fictitious
person and nothing could be verified concerning him. In
the third case a boy named James Miles, who had been
"A . Ballou, Spirit Manifestations (Boston: 1852), p. 68; and see the whole
of Chapters VII and VIII.
104 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
drowned at Bath, professed to give some information about
what happened to him, but there were many inaccuracies.
The evidence, in any case, was considered unsatisfactory,
for it was possible for the medium to have read some ac­
count of the accident in the newspapers. The most remark­
able episode in the series was however, that connected with
a Mr. Gordon Davis, who had been a school-fellow of “the
sitter” Mr. Soal. I venture to borrow this gentleman’s sum­
mary of these extraordinary communications. It was, he
notes:
“ a case in which a person believed by the sitter to be dead, com­
municates spontaneously through the direct voice. He reproduces more
or less accurately the tone of his voice, its accent and his characteristic
mannerisms of speech. He describes incidents of his boyhood known
to the sitter and speaks of one or two matters unknown to the sitter.
Most interesting of all, he gives an accurate description of the en­
vironment and interior arrangements of a house which he did not
occupy until a year later. Going back into the past, he is able to
reproduce accurately the place of his last meeting with the sitter and
the substance of the conversation. Further, he is dramatised as if he
were a deceased personality desiring to send messages of comfort to
his wife and child. In the end we discover that he is still living. By
means of a diary kept by him we can learn accurately just what he
was doing at the time of the first two sittings.” 34
Obviously these messages, though full of much accurate
detail, did not emanate in any way from the spirit of Mr.
Gordon Davis. At the time they were being uttered through
the medium’s organs of speech, Mr. Davis was busily oc­
cupied with quite other matters. He was not thinking of
Mr. Soal, and had no knowledge of the arrangements of the
house which he was only to occupy many months later. If
the communications had their origin in the spirit world,
they must have come from some freakish impersonator. I
was present when Mr. Soal read to the Society an abstract of
" Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XXXV (19 25), p. 479.
B ■
“DANGER, KEEP OFF" 105
his paper (afterwards printed in fuller form), and the com­
ments made by subsequent speakers in a critical audience
showed they believed it to be reliable and evidential.
I have quoted previously from Mrs. Travers Smith’s book
Voices from the Void, and I am tempted to make two fur­
ther brief extracts. She is a lady who is in touch with all that
is best and most reliable in psychical research, and she be­
lieves in the objective reality of the spirits purporting to com­
municate from the other world. As an Agnostic or a Uni­
tarian, she is hampered by no conscientious difficulties, and
yet her practical advice to readers takes the following form:
“If I may venture to advise persons who long to speak once more
with those whom they have loved who have vanished in darkness, I
should say it is wise and sane not to make the attempt. The chances
against genuine communication are ten to one; the disappointments
and doubts connected with the experiment are great. Personally I
would not make any attempt to speak to the beloved dead through
automatic writing on the ouija board. The evidence they offer of
their identity is too ephemeral and unsatisfactory; and as I would
not undertake these experiments for myself, I would not willingly
help others to risk them. . . . I fear the observations I have just made
may be very distasteful to many who approach the subject from the
spiritualist point of view. I cannot offer these people any apology
for my attitude.”
Again at the very outset of the volume she gives this warn­
ing:
“ Those who are willing to devote some of their time to the study
of what is commonly called ‘Spiritualism,’ should bear in mind that
results are slow, uncertain and cannot be forced. Indeed one asks
oneself whether time is well spent, seeking for the few grains of gold
one finds in the huge dust-heaps of disappointment and dullness.”35
One can only express one’s entire sympathy with this atti­
tude of mind. If Mrs. Travers Smith had been an unsuccess­
ful experimenter her advice would be open to suspicion as
“ See also Mrs. Travers Smith’s contribution to Huntley Carter’s volume Spir­
itualism; its present-day Meaning (1920), pp. 17 1- 17 3 .
io6 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
dictated by pique or disappointment; but in view of the
quite remarkable results she obtained on several different
occasions, her warning must command the respect of all.
It will be understood, I trust, that I do not in the least
dispute the existence of many veridical communications,
some of a most startling and inexplicable kind. But even
with the best mediums lapses of all sorts are frequent. The
most experienced psychic researchers admit that we can be
sure of nothing until confirmatory evidence is available
from an independent source. On the other hand, much of
the information imparted is what the writer just quoted
calls “ a Hades of disappointments and even absurdities.”
C h a p t e r VI
W H AT COMES OF IT
I t d o e s not seem easy to ascertain precisely when and under
what conditions Spiritualism first took shape as a recognised
form of belief, whether we call it a religion, a philosophy, a
revelation, or merely a theory. The point is of no particular
importance, and it is sufficient to say that in 1852, if not in
1851, two or three years after the mysterious rappings at
Hydesville, which brought fame to the Fox sisters, “ Spirit­
ualism” and “ Spiritualists” were already freely discussed un­
der these names in the newspaper press of the United States.
The only matter which I wish to emphasize is the fact that
from the outset the spirits were prolific in magniloquent
promises regarding the new era which was dawning upon
the world. The bulky work of Edmonds and Dexter, of
which the first part appeared in 1853, supplies a number of
examples. Here are a few concise specimens of the language
used in the automatic script taken down by Judge Edmonds
and his partner in the course of 1852:
“The human mind thus prepared for its advent, this new dispensa­
tion [i.e., Spiritualism] comes to supply the want to the countless
thousands who are now slumbering in indifference or toiling in in­
fidelity. . . . There is joy in heaven at the opening of this new inter­
course with man. The spirits there never tire, never rest. Be ye like
them. Go on. Heaven shall crown your efforts. . . . Doctor [Dexter],
there is one thing certain. Our work, your work, is of more importance
than you can at present realize. Spirits of higher position than any
with whom you have had intercourse are to teach you through me and
also personally to influence your hand. . . . The day is dawning when
107
io8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
the truth will gird up its loins and travel with speed through the
world. You are its avant-guards. You are its companions.” 1
But others among the pioneers of the new movement were
honoured with similar messages. Dr. Robert Hare, a really
distinguished man of science, who was professor of chemis­
try in the University of Pennsylvania, received a communi­
cation which purported to have been signed by a number of
eminent men in the spirit world, including George Wash­
ington, J. Q. Adams, Dr. Chalmers, etc., and which con­
tained such sentences as the following:
“Could you see the great glory which is to be the issue of your
labours in the new unfoldings of spiritual science, you would not de­
spair of your mission nor weary in your devotion to it. . . . Go on in
your searchings, our good friend; the end is not yet with you. Brilliant
minds with brilliant thoughts are burning to give utterance to earth
through you. You are a selected instrument of our choosing, and we
are watching and guiding you in the path and to the goal you seek.”2
Those familiar with modern spiritualistic literature will
be aware that the same type of message, addressed to the
author of Raymond and other kindred enthusiasts, is still
very prevalent. Through spirit intercourse, we are assured,
the world is going to be fashioned anew; mourning for our
dear ones and the fear of death itself will soon be banished
forever. No doubt this is a very consoling prospect, but if we
may judge of the future by the past it does not seem that we
have much reason to put confidence in prophecies of this
kind, from whatever source they come. Still the anticipations
so confidently expressed some eighty years ago that the new
revelation was about to inaugurate a golden age lends a cer­
tain interest to the inquiry outlined in the three headings
left over from the last chapter. They deal mainly with Spir-
’Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism, I, pp. 48, 63, 67; II, p. 278.
’Robert Hare, Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations (New
York: 1856), Preface, p. 12.
WHAT COMES OF IT 109
itualism in its practical results, and it is this aspect of the
subject, tested by the experience of three quarters of a cen­
tury, which claims our attention at present.
In the summary statement of the grounds for condemn­
ing Spiritualism previously set before the reader, the third
heading runs as follows :
“That systems of religious belief are assumed or expound­
ed by the spirits, which, while often mutually contradictory,
are nearly always subversive of Catholic teaching.”
That this contention is fully justified, will hardly be dis­
puted by anyone who possesses even a superficial acquaint­
ance with the literature of the subject. At first, both in the
United States and in England, a certain religious conserva­
tism, as well as the vagueness of the prevailing theology,
prevented the antagonism between the new movement and
Christian teaching from proclaiming itself too obtrusively,
at any rate for many years. There was a general trend among
leading spiritualists towards Swedenborgian views; but the
majority were attracted only by the physical phenomena
and by the supposed communications from their departed
friends. Of a formulated system of spirit teaching regarding
the relations between this world and the next we find com­
paratively little, and that little was by no means enthusiastic­
ally received or widely disseminated. In France, and on the
continent generally, it was otherwise. It would hardly be
too much to say that as early as 1857 the movement there
was captured by a single individual, who provided it with
a textbook, or rather a series of textbooks, and a press organ,
La Revue Spirite, which secured a practical monopoly in the
field of such discussions. This individual, Léon H. D. Rivail,
better known by his pseudonym of Allan Kardec, dying in
1869 and buried in the cemetery of Père-Lachaise, is de­
scribed, not without reason, on his tombstone as Fondateur
no TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
de la Philosophic Spirite. All that need concern us here is
the fact that this philosophy, which he expounded in nearly
a dozen different books3 and which he professed to derive
from the communications made to him by all sorts of illus­
trious spirits in the other world, is at every turn in acute
conflict with the teaching of the Catholic Church. We are
asked to believe that Jesus Christ was a man in whose body
one of the highest spirits became incarnate, that the Trinity
and the other mysteries of the Christian creeds are mere
fictions, that there is no such thing as everlasting punish­
ment, and so on. Allan Kardec seems seriously to have per­
suaded himself that he was entrusted with a great mission
by the powers which ruled on high. He believed that the
revelation of which he was the mouthpiece was comparable
with, and the fulfilment of, those of Moses and Jesus Christ.4
Religion as it actually existed in the world was corrupt and
it had to be swept away. Hence, we find him recording spirit
utterances couched in such terms as these:
“ Spiritism is called upon to play an immense part in human affairs.
This it is which will reform our legislation, at present so often in
conflict with the laws of God. This it is which will restore the religion
of Christ now degraded by the priests into a commercial speculation
and a vile form of traffic. It will set up the real religion, natural reli­
gion, that which springs from the heart and goes straight to God,
without being intercepted by the skirts of a cassock or the steps of an
altar.” 5
But that which was and is most characteristic of Kardecian
*The first and best known of these was Le Livre des Esprits, of which the 52nd
edition was published in 19 12. Other popular works widely circulated and
translated, were Le Livre des Mediums and L'Evangile selon le Spiritisme. Sec
the admirable account of Kardec and his system given by Lucien Roure, S.J., in
Le Merveilleux Spirite, Paris, 1917.
‘For all this the reader may be referred to Roure, Le Merveilleux Spirite, pp.
1 1- 18 , 290-336, who gives references.
5L. H. D. Rivait, Œuvres Posthumes (19 12 ), p. 343. This spirit communica­
tion appears to have been received April 15, 1860.
WHAT COMES OF IT h i
spiritism — the form of spiritism, I repeat, which has been
adopted almost universally in Latin countries on the Con­
tinent — is its affirmation of the doctrine of reincarnation.
This belief, explicitly taught by the spirits to Kardec, was,
at any rate at first, just as explicitly rejected on spirit au­
thority by the majority of spiritualists in England and Amer­
ica. The contradiction is absolutely fatal to belief in the
trustworthiness of spirit guidance, and it has not passed un­
remarked by rationalist critics, even those who are them­
selves fully convinced of the reality of both the physical and
psychic phenomena of mediumship. It would not be easy
to put the case more clearly and forcibly than has been done
by Professor Charles Richet, the distinguished physiologist
of Paris.
“ Unfortunately for spiritism,” he writes, “ an objection which seems
to me irrefutable, can be made to the spirits’ teaching. In all parts of
Europe the spirits vouch for reincarnation. Often they indicate the
moment they are going to reappear in a human body; and they relate
still more readily the past avatars of their followers. On the con­
trary, in England the spirits assure us that there is no reincarnation.
The contradiction is formal, positive and irreconcilable. Those who
are inclined to doubt the correctness of what I affirm have only to
glance through and compare the writings of English and French
spiritists; for example those of Allan Kardec, Denys, Delanne and
those of Stainton Moses. How are we to form an opinion worthy of
acceptance? Which speak the truth? European spirits or Anglo-
Saxon spirits? Probably spiritistic messages do not emanate from
very well-informed witnesses. Such is the conclusion arrived at by
Aksakoff, one of the cleverest and most enlightened of spiritists. He
himself acknowledges that one is never certain of the communicating
identity at a spiritistic sitting.”8
That the divergence among spiritualists upon the reincar-
*C. Richet (Professor of Physiology in the Faculty of Medicine, Paris), in his
Preface to Maxwell’s Metapsychical Phenomena (Eng. Trans.), pp. 7-8. Prof.
Richet also says: “ I am neither spiritist, nor theosophist, nor occultist. I do not
believe in occult sciences, nor in the supernatural, nor in miracles," p. 13.
112 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
nation question is not overstated will be clear to anyone who
studies the periodical literature of spiritualism during the
year 1875, when Miss Blackwell published a translation of
Kardec’s Spirits’ BooI{J Curiously enough one of the argu­
ments used by the English school to discredit the reincarna­
tion doctrine was the allegation (so far as I know, quite
unfounded) that Allan Kardec before he took up these views
“belonged to the College of Jesuits,” that he had acted un­
der their instigation, and that “ they were delighted at the
schism he had brought about among spiritualists by a doc­
trine which had been selected because of its absurdity.”8
While language of this kind may serve to illustrate the men­
tality of many anti-Kardecists, it would clearly be waste of
time to discuss such rubbish seriously.
But although the spiritualist attitude in England and
America was not at the beginning openly hostile to the
creeds, it is impossible to make even a slight study of their
literature during the first twenty-five years without perceiv­
ing that even in Anglo-Saxon countries the tide was setting
strongly in a direction hostile to all Christian revelation. The
case of Mr. Stainton Moses who renounced his orders in the
Church of England and taught a vague theism which ex­
cluded belief in the Incarnation, etc., was typical of many
others. The opposition between spirit teaching and the dog­
mas of Christianity manifested itself almost from the begin­
ning. Judge Edmonds, though his sympathies were appar-
7See, for example, The Medium, August 13 and August 27, 1875, pp. 522
and 552.
‘The Spiritualist Newspaper, June 18, 1875, p. 289, and The Spiritual Magazine,
June, 1875, p. 262. It seems, however, to have been true, and it was certainly
not very creditable to the founder of continental “ Spiritisme,” that he was draw­
ing a salary as a member of the staff of the Catholic Vnivers, while, under the
assumed name of Allan Kardec, he was writing articles subversive of all Catholic
teaching.
WHAT COMES OF IT 1 1
3
ently Swedenborgian, did not attempt to conceal his dis­
belief in the Divinity of Jesus Christ.
“ The spirits,” he writes, “ who were engaged in this work told me
at an early day that they were determined now to avoid the error
which they had fallen into 1800 years ago, and would not now, as
in those days, concentrate all their powers in one person, so as by
their marvellous character to induce an uninstructed age to worship
man instead of God.” 9
Another representative spiritualist of high character,
Robert Dale Owen, writing in the Atlantic Monthly for De­
cember, 1874, stated that Spiritualism disavows all such dog­
mas as the following:
“ That all men and women are originally depraved, therefore ob­
jects of God’s anger, and that they can be justified before Him only
by the blood of one of the persons of the Godhead, to wit, Jesus
Christ, who was made to bear, and doomed to suffer for, the sins of
the human race. . . . That God permits a personal devil to roam the
earth, seeking whom he may deceive and bring to ruin body and
soul.” 10
Without discussing details of terminology, the general
purpose of this repudiation is plain enough. No doubt there
was a party of “Christian Spiritualists,” who from time to
time protested against such expressions of opinion as those
just quoted, but the more prominent and active adherents of
the movement belonged to the “progressive” section, and the
Christianity even of the right wing was of an extremely
vague and hesitating kind.11 So far as I am able to ascertain,
the attitude of almost all the English-speaking spiritualists
who have concerned themselves with the deeper issues of
this new revelation was and remains irreconcilably anti-
Catholic, if not anti-Christian. It would be easy to multiply
‘Edmonds, Letters and Tracts on Spiritualism (1874), p. 344.
,0T he Atlantic Monthly, December, 1874, p. 729.
"Those who care to pursue the subject will find much interesting material in
Medium, October, 1875, and in the Spiritual Magazine, November, 1875.
TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
114
illustrations, but I will content myself with a few sentences
culled from an address delivered before the Dialectical So­
ciety in 1873 by a then well-known spiritualist, Mr. T. H.
Noyes. He was replying to a paper entitled “ Spiritualism,
the new Superstition,” and even in those mid-Victorian days
he claimed that both the spirits and the mass of his fellow-
believers supported him in such sentiments as the following:
“ I know that we have spirit friends who are permitted to disabuse
our minds of many fallacies which a corrupt priestcraft has taught
us to reverence under the guise of religion. . . . Spiritualism claims
to be a new revelation, iconoclastic of all superstition, and bids fair
to extinguish the fungoid growths that have obscured the pristine
lights of all former revelations, and claims to supplement and illu­
mine them by its own electric rays. . . . It abolishes forever the
deified devil of the Hebrews, the bloodthirsty god of vengeance,
dealing in damnation and hell-fire, the creator of human fuel for
eternal flames. . . . It abolishes the supernatural and extends the
realm of nature and the reign of law to the invisible world. . . . It
abolishes at one fell swoop the theology of the schoolmen, and the
dogmas of the schools, and the mischievous absurdities of such for­
mularies as the Athanasian Creed. It dethrones the blind idol of
theological faith, and sweeps away the marvellous delusion of the
orthodox, that belief in fictions is essential to salvation. . . . What
wonder then that it is denounced by Bibliolaters and the devotees of
the devil, scouted by priests and scoffed at by men of science, all as in­
terested in the preservation of their private preserves and ancient
monopolies as were the initiated of the sacred mysteries of old.” 12
Let me only add under this head that if the Church claims
the right to inhibit the circulation of heretical or morally
dangerous literature among her faithful adherents, she has
every reason to include the great bulk of alleged spirit utter­
ances under the same condemnation. The very fact that
they profess to emanate from intelligences whose range of
"The Spiritualist Newspaper, December 12, 1873, p. 459. So far as I can dis­
cover; none of the readers of the journal protested against this language.
WHAT COMES OF IT 115
vision has been enlarged by their emancipation from the
trammels of bodily existence must tend to give these mes­
sages a mischievous importance in the eyes of simple folk
who are incapable of seriously investigating the problems
involved.
If the unorthodoxy of spirit communications is a matter
which touches hardly any but Catholics, their mutual con­
tradictions over so fundamental a point as reincarnation is
evidently of much wider import. When one set of spirits
declare that the soul of man released from its tenement of
clay returns to earth over and over again to occupy new
bodies, and other spirits of equal authority maintain the
exact contrary, it is plain that such disclosures are utterly
worthless as a source of guidance in those things which it
most concerns us to be sure about. The disagreement on this
point between Anglo-Saxon and Continental spirits13 seems
to be just as far from a settlement today as it was at Allan
Kardec’s death, sixty years ago. Surely in this fact alone we
have warrant for saying that the new revelation, which
promised so much to the generation of Edmonds and Hare
and Owen, has been barren of practical results. If the spirits
cannot tell us whether the disembodied soul returns to earth
again — or rather, what is far worse, tell us with assurance
contradictory things — what information can they give
which a level-headed man can trust as even a betting prob­
ability about any question of fact whatever. In the early days
anticipation ran high regarding the flood of light which
spirit intercourse was destined to shed on the problems of
physical science. Not a score of years had passed before the
same type of spiritualists were ready to admit that this hope
“ Those who are interested in the matter may read with advantage the dis­
cussion in the Spiritualist Newspaper in the latter part of 1875, pp. 74, 103, 117 ,
143, 3I4> «c.
n 6 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
was nugatory. In a leading article in The Spiritualist News­
paper for November i, 1873, this avowal is already made in
the clearest terms. I hope I may be pardoned a rather long
quotation. The writer begins by saying:
“The power of clairvoyance to see scenes hundreds of miles away
and the faculty conferred upon trance mediums of revealing truths
(Preincarnation) relating to the life hereafter, naturally raise hopes
of the noblest description in the breast of novices in Spiritualism.
Here, think they, is a key, which, when properly applied, will give
to man a true and unquestionable religion; here is a power where­
with we shall be enabled to establish communication with residents
in other planets. . . . With prolonged experience these natural an­
ticipations are damped. . . . The novice soon becomes aware that a
proportion of clairvoyant revelations are unreliable, and that trance
revelations are coloured more or less, quite unconsciously, by the
mind of the medium, or at least by the organs of expression of that
mind.”
Referring to certain trance utterances on scientific matters
which had emanated from two well-known mediums, Mrs.
Tappan and Mr. Morse, the writer declares that:
“ As in the case of revelations about physical things given through
all the trance mediums we have ever met as yet, truth and error,
reliability and unreliability, were intimately blended. . . . A long time
ago, Mr. Morse, while in the trance state, was questioned about the
sun, and gave plenty of information opposed to facts which physical
science proves to be true. It appears to be an illegitimate thing to
question departed spirits about material problems which we ought
to solve for ourselves; it would be a bad thing if spirits returned to
earth to relieve men from the trouble of using their own brains, or
to teach inquirers how to make money. . . . At all events the Koons
family in America, and nearly all persons who have trusted to spirit
guidance in commercial matters have been brought to commercial
ruin. . . .
“ It would be a hardship to the honestly industrious if media could
outstrip them in the revealing of truth by simply going to sleep and
permitting other intelligent beings to use their material organism.
WHAT COMES OF IT 117
This may be one reason why neither trance nor clairvoyance has yet
made one single addition to human knowledge of physics of any
practical value.” 14
This was written more than half a century ago, at a time
when quite a number of books were being published em­
bodying spirit communications, and professing to throw
light on the dark places of history, science, and literature.
For example, Professor Denton, the geologist, published
three volumes dealing with the palaeontology of our own
earth and illustrating the conditions of life upon the other
planets. His materials were mainly supplied by spirit com­
munications obtained through mediums, but even in the
opinion of his fellow spiritualists the book was not convinc­
ing. The same journal from which I have just quoted took
occasion to affirm once more: “ So far as our experience of
trance mediumship is concerned, its statements relating to
physical science have been altogether unreliable and mis­
chievously deceiving, nor has any new discovery in physics
ever been given to the world from this source.”15
The astronomer M. Flammarion, who was all his life
wedded to French Spiritisme and who delivered a funeral
oration at the burial of Allan Kardec, tells us that in his
early days he used to obtain a quantity of automatic script,
dealing with mathematical and astronomical questions,
which purported to emanate from the spirit of Galileo. For
a time he was a good deal impressed by these communica­
tions and looked to them to obtain light upon the problems
in which he was interested, but before long he satisfied him­
self that the whole was illusory.
"The Spiritualist Newspaper, November 1, 1873, pp. 37 1-373.
"Ibid., July, 1875, p. 3. One definite example of an alleged veridical com­
munication of scientific importance which is frequently appealed to, will be dis­
cussed in a separate chapter. It is connected with the discovery of the Edgar
Chapel at Glastonbury.
1
i i 8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
“There can be no doubt,” he writes, “ that these thoughts were en­
tirely the product of my own intelligence and that the illustrious
Florentine had nothing to do with them. It has been the same with
all communications of the astronomical class; they have not led
science forward a single step; nor has any obscure, mysterious or
misleading point in history been cleared up by the spirits.”
It would be easy to accumulate specimens of the contra­
dictions and futilities which swarm in what are alleged to
be spirit utterances concerning life in the other planets. A
single example will suffice.
“ On Jupiter,” wrote Prof. Denton, conducted thither by his guides,
“ the people do not look much different from people here. They have
large beards; there is more hair on their faces than on their heads.
. . . The men are larger if anything than they are here. They have
very broad shoulders. . . . All the people I have yet seen are very
beautiful not only in the outlines of the form but in the expression
of the countenance. . . . The woman of Jupiter are taller and more
slender than the average Anglo-Saxon, yet beautifully rounded; blue
eyes predominate. . . . The robes worn by the ladies are each com­
posed of one piece; except the sleeves, and fastened by a girdle. They
are easy flowing and free from anything elaborate.” 16
Compare with this the equally authoritative account of
Andrew Jackson Davis.
“ The inhabitants of Jupiter do not walk erect, but assume an in­
clined position, frequently using their hands and arms in walking,
the lower extremities being rather shorter than the arms according
to our standard of proportion. And by a modest desire to be seen
only in an inclined position, they have formed this habit, which has
become an established custom among them.” 17
In 1873 a great boom in all the spiritualist press of Eng­
land and America announced that Dickens’ unfinished novel
The Mystery of Edwin Drood was being completed by the
novelist himself from the spirit world through an American
medium. Madame Blavatsky — this was before her Theos-
’“Denton, The Soul of Things or Psychometric Researches and Discoveries,
Vol. Ill (18 73), pp. 281-289.
” A. J. Davis, The Principles of Nature (New York, 4th ed.), p. 189.
WHAT COMES OF IT 1 19
ophist days — was greatly impressed and set about translat­
ing the whole into Russian. The book, however, has never
found a single champion among Dickens experts, and the
highest authority on the subject has described it as self-con­
demned by its futility, illiteracy, and its American manner­
isms.18
Just about the same time Signor Damiani, a vehement re-
incarnationist, writing in defence of this doctrine to the
Spiritual Magazine, put forward the following strange
argument:
“ Over and over again have we been told with great assurance that
reincarnation is only taught by low, ignorant, or mischievous spirits.
I have before me a volume containing 24,130 lines, printed at Parma,
and dictated there by the spirit of Ariosto to a medium who has
never written a verse in his life. It is a description of the scenery and
life in the spheres and in style and language so grand and sublime
as would of itself give renown to the literature of any idiom. . . .
Medium Del Giudice, of this town, has just completed under spirit
dictation a most voluminous Encyclopaedia, embodying such advanced
views in all the branches of human learning as to make his spirit
guides forbid its publication in the benighted times we live in. . . .
Can these be tricks of low, ignorant, or mischievous spirits? For it is
through these same spirits, one and all, that we are taught reincarna­
tion as an integral part of the spirit philosophy.10
The argument of Signor Damiani, a man otherwise of
some note and of undoubted ability, is a little unfortunate,
for Ariosto’s spirit poem has been accepted by no Italian
critic worthy of the name.20 But it is everywhere the same
story, the spirits who profess to communicate through me­
diums or automatic writing never by any chance impart in­
formation which can be of use to mankind at large. If there
“ J. Cuming Walters, The Complete Mystery of Edwin Drood (19 12 ), p. 217.
” The Spiritual Magazine, December, 1875, p. 567.
’“My friend, Dr. Edmund Gardner, Professor of Italian in the University of
London, and author of Ariosto and the Court Poets of Ferrara, whom I consulted,
had never even heard of this supposed masterpiece.
120 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
were any real foundation for the belief that the beings in the
other world, possessing an almost boundless range of knowl­
edge and the kindliest good will, have the power to com­
municate with living mortals, what endless services they
might render in solving the problems of past history, in di­
recting the researches of scientists, in preventing the mis­
carriage of justice. But in point of fact we get nothing but
endless deceptions and futilities. As Mr. H. D. Jencken (who
was the husband of Katie Fox, the earliest medium of mod­
ern Spiritualism) declared after many years experience, “the
vast majority of the messages given through strong physical
mediumship are objectless lies.” Moreover the editor of The
Spiritualist, in quoting this, adds of his own accord:21 “We
are sorry to say that other persons intimately acquainted with
the facts of strong physical mediumship have, as a general
rule, had similar experience.”
And against all the evil consequences of these disappoint­
ments and deceptions, against this atmosphere of doubt and
imposture and puerilities, we have nothing to set except the
fact that some few sceptics have had their belief in a future
life strengthened by what seemed to them satisfactory proof
of the existence of a world of spirits, and that some few
mourners have been consoled in their sorrow by the convic­
tion that they were once more in communication with the
dear ones they had lost. It may be doubted whether the
consolation thus resulting is commonly of a very permanent
nature. Experience shows, I fear, that in too many cases
while the craving for fresh assurance grows ever stronger,
the evidence supplied by the mediumistic séance grows more
and more faint. Doubts begin to awaken, and the resulting
anguish of mind is bitter indeed.
When we come to discuss the results of Spiritualism in its
” TAe Spiritualist, December 3 1, 1875, p. 314.
WHAT COMES OF IT 121
effects upon health and character, we find ourselves upon
rather more difficult ground. In the presence of any con­
crete example of mental, moral, or physical decay it can al­
ways be argued, with more or less of plausibility, that the
end would have been the same if the spiritualist in question
had been a Catholic or a Buddhist, a student of abstract
philosophy or a labourer in the fields. None the less, all but
the crudest type of determinists will admit that environment
and self-discipline have everything to do with the develop­
ment of those tendencies to good and evil, implanted, though
in varying measure, in every son of man. We are all in some
sense both potential villains and potential saints; and the
same principle holds in the physical order. What I am con­
tending for is that, so far as we can appeal to the experience
of the past eighty years, the atmosphere of Spiritualism has
proved thoroughly unhealthy. It develops morbid tendencies
and checks the invigorating reaction of common sense.
There is, I think, no evidence to show that those who have
identified themselves with it have become better men or
better citizens; while there is, on the other hand, a good
deal which suggests that the belief in spiritual intercourse
has often made them cranks or faddists, even when the de­
terioration has stopped short of complete mental decay.
Statistics are lacking which would allow us to assert that
Spiritualism is filling our lunatic asylums. Most of the wild
statements which have sometimes been made are no doubt
silly exaggerations, and can only do harm, but no thought­
ful person will make light of the warning written during
the War by the Medical Superintendent of the most impor­
tant institution of the kind in Scotland, the Morningside
Asylum at Edinburgh:
“ I find it necessary,” wrote Dr. G. M. Robertson, in his Annual
Report for 1916, “ at this time, as the result of several cases that have
122 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
come under my care, to utter a note of warning to those who are
seeking consolation in their sorrows by practical experiments in the
domain of spiritualism. I do not profess to pass any judgment on
spiritualism itself, although I have been interested in it for thirty
years. I recognise that it is a difficult subject worthy of patient and
unbiassed enquiry by competent investigators. I do not, however,
consider that those who are unversed in normal, and particularly in
morbid psychology, are qualified investigators, and, least of all, that
those who are wishing and longing for and unconsciously expecting
certain manifestations from friends they have lost, make reliable
observers.”
The writer’s moderation of tone will not fail to attract at­
tention. Then, after characterising the gift of mediums “as
being, if not morbid, at least closely related to the morbid,”
he goes on:
“ I desire to warn those who may possibly inherit a latent tendency
to nervous disorders to have nothing to do with practical enquiries
of a spiritualistic nature, lest they should awaken this dormant pro­
clivity to hallucination within their brains. I have known such a
person who had lost her son, following the procedure in vogue at
present, under advice, first hearing of him through mediums, then
getting into touch with him herself and receiving messages from
him, some as impressions and others as audible words, then increas­
ing her circle of spiritual acquaintances and living more for her
spiritual world than for this, to the neglect of her husband and house­
hold, till finally God conversed with her in a low musical voice at
all times, and confided His plans for the future to her. I would ask
spiritualists where in this case does Spiritualism end and mental dis­
order begin? Do they overlap? Do they coexist? Or is there such a
state as disordered mental function at all? Or is it that Spiritualism
was wholly absent from the case?” 22
Almost every physician and priest in populous centres will
have come across similar examples, as I have done myself,
”1 quote this at second hand from Dr. Charles Mercier, Spiritualism and Sir
Oliver Lodge (Preface, pp. vii and viii). Dr. G. M. Robertson’s original report
is inaccessible to me, though I have read a summary of it in the British Medical
journal, which also quotes part of the above passage.
WHAT COMES OF IT 123
though happily the mischief does not always go so far as to
involve the complete overthrow of reason.23 Dr. Robertson’s
warning merits the more confidence because he is evidently
alive to the danger of overstatement. He proceeds to point
out that for those who are in the early stages of mental de­
rangement Spiritualism has a great fascination, but that
though it may retard their recovery it cannot, of course, be
regarded in this case as the direct cause of insanity.
It hardly needs saying that the mediums themselves are
more exposed to danger physically and morally than any
other persons. The sad history of the two youngest Fox chil­
dren, who are rightly described as the Founders of modern
Spiritualism, has been told in a previous chapter. Even apart
from the Free Love scandals which reached a climax in 1873-
1875, an unwholesome atmosphere has marked every stage
of the movement from the very commencement. As early
as the year 1852, a reader, apparently a personage of some
standing, addressed a letter to the editor of the Spiritual
Telegraph declaring that he was at a loss “to reconcile the
well-known character of some of the mediums with the in­
telligence of the spirits who are alleged to communicate
through such questionable channels.” In two leading articles
(June 12 and 19), the editor replied to this criticism, not by
denying the facts, but by making light of them. Very often,
he urged, a man of high attainments is forced to employ un­
suitable means in the accomplishment of his designs. When
we engage a courier to be the bearer of important dispatches
“we are accustomed to regard his fleetness rather than his
high-toned morality, and it would be a most fastidious piety
which stops to enquire into the morals of the post-boy, be-
"D r. Marcel Viollet, in his little book, Spiritism and Insanity (Eng. Trans.
London: 1910 ), fully bears out Dr. Robertson’s statement, and he quotes in his
footnotes some remarkable cases. See, e.g., pp. 54 seq., and pp. 75 seq.
124 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
fore it will read a message from a long-absent friend.” After
which he remarks: “That some of them [the mediums] are
of doubtful authority and questionable morals, we deem it
no heresy to believe. But it was always so.” And he there­
upon refers to Balaam and other characters in the Old
Testament.
It would not be easy to exaggerate the lamentations con­
stantly appearing in all journals devoted to Spiritualism over
the depravity and lack of principle so frequently exhibited
by the mediumistic fraternity. Here is a frank admission
taken from a leading article in The Spiritualist newspaper
in 1875:
“ The celebrated Neapolitan medium, Sapia Padalino [sic],2* took
to bad courses under the rule of evil spirits, nor up to the latest ac­
counts from Signor Damiani which were published in this journal
were her best friends able to save her. Two American mediums of
great power, who visited England some years ago, and who could get
marvellous manifestations when they were held hand and foot, forged
two cheques for a large amount before they left this country, and at
times seemed scarcely to have any consciousness whether they were
telling the truth or the reverse. . . . Among the lower order of phys­
ical mediums also are some who have made desperate attempts to
ruin each other by the deliberate invention and circulation of the
most atrocious scandals about each other; indeed if all that is known
upon these subjects could be brought together and printed in one
volume a depth of depravity would be revealed which is simply
appalling.” 25
Now this, be it remembered, is not the verdict of a hostile
critic, but it represents the sober judgment of an apologist
in a responsible position, writing for his fellow believers.
Neither is there any lack of confirmatory evidence. No man
“ This is, of course, the famous Eusapia Palladino, whose name in the early
stages of her career seems to have been differently spelled. She was then (1875)
about twenty years old.
KThe Spiritualist, June 25, 1875, p. 302.
WHAT COMES OF IT 125
probably ever possessed a wider personal acquaintance with
Spiritualism in every part of the world than A. Aksakoff,
an investigator whose financial and social position placed
him beyond the suspicion of any sort of interested motive.
His great work, Animism and Spiritism, is often described
as a classic for all students of the subject, and he never
wavered in his belief in the reality of some, at least, of the
phenomena he spent his life in studying.
But Aksakoff’s opinion of the trustworthiness of mediums
and their controls seems steadily to have declined as years
passed by. As Count Solovovo tells us in an obituary notice
of Aksakoff in the }ournal of the Society for Psychical Re­
search: “In answer to a question from me as to the part
played by the ‘spirits’ in this admixture of possible fraud and
supposed truth — Aksakoff rather vehemently expressed, as
to the moral standard of the ‘spirits,’ ideas which I was as­
tonished to hear from him.”26 Mrs. Sidgwick, the widow of
Professor Henry Sidgwick, both of them among the pillars
of psychical research in Great Britain, sums up the matter
in these words: “Almost every medium who has been prom­
inently before the public has at some time or other been
detected in fraud, or what cannot be distinguished from
fraud except on some violently improbable hypothesis.”27
But from another well-known writer on Spiritualism who
has had an equally wide experience and who is also an
avowed believer in the phenomena, I must quote rather
more at length. Mr. Hereward Carrington, an American,
speaks not only of the frauds and low moral standard of
mediums but also of its harmful effects on family life. He
M
Journal S.P.R., XI, p. 48 (1903); and cf. Aksakoff’s article on “ Reincarna­
tion” in The Spiritualist, August 13, 1875, P- 74-
"Mrs. H. Sidgwick, in the Encyclopaedia Britannica article, “ Spiritualism,” Vol.
XXV, p. 707. Seventh edition (Cambridge, 19 11) .
126 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tells us, for example, how he received a letter from a lady
who had let herself go under the seduction of automatic
communications, and who concluded by saying that “the
communications grew to be of such a nature that it seemed
that some power was trying to destroy my home life, so I
stopped experimenting with it.” Whereupon Mr. Carring­
ton comments:
“ In the case before us this tendency is clearly shown, and the odd
mixture of lies and apparently supernormal information which so
often occurs is also well illustrated. It is because of the supernormal
knowledge displayed that many persons are led to believe all that
the automatic writing tells them. The evil consequences are well
brought out by the remark that the writing seemed to be ‘trying to
destroy her home life’ — I have known many cases of like nature —
and it shows us how careful we must be in experimenting in this
manner.” 28
What follows is still more to our purpose, for it proves that
Mr. Carrington recognizes, as do Mr. Stainton Moses and
Mrs. Travers Smith, that at times a distinctly malignant in­
fluence makes itself perceptible in these automatic commu­
nications. If the script, he argues, does nothing more than
reproduce the fabric woven by the subconsciousness of the
experimenter it is not easy to explain
“ why the entity thus cultivated is so frequently evil and malicious,
and why in the finest characters, in the purest young girls, it uses the
vilest language and counsels the patient’s own destruction. Many sui­
cides have resulted in consequence of the instruction given by
planchette. That I know.” 29
Mr. Carrington is not the only authority who vouches for
this suicidal suggestion which occasionally manifests itself
in automatic communication. I myself have known one case
and I have heard of two or three others. One cannot help
*H . Carrington, Problems of Psychic Research, p. 334.
™lbid., p- 336.
WHAT COMES OF IT 127
feeling a certain apprehension that the seductive picture of
the experience of “passing over” set forth in the much ad­
vertised script of the Rev. G. Vale Owen, as also in Raymond,
Claude’s book and other similar revelations, will have for its
practical result, not so much an increase of peace and com­
fort in the hearts of desolate survivors as a considerable aug­
mentation in the statistics of suicide. The sufferings caused
by bereavement are great, but the sufferings which result
from poverty, illness, disappointment, anxiety, old age, and
remorse are even greater, and for persons of average selfish­
ness come much nearer home. If a man were really per­
suaded that by taking an overdose of laudanum he would
wake up, restored to youth and vigour, in a world like this
but free from all troubles, the temptation to put an end to
this present existence would to many be irresistible. Shake­
speare, as usual, knew all about it when he said that
“ The dread of something after death,
The undiscovered country from whose bourn
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Than fly to others that we know not of.”
I am not at all sure that the certainty of a painless death
and of a happy awakening in a land of brightness and peace
would be a boon to mankind at large and a help to the
better discharge of our social duties. But to return to the
book last spoken of, Mr. Carrington is evidently puzzled by
the problems presented by automatic writing. He is reluc­
tant to confess belief in anything in the nature of a personal
devil, but in using the ouija board with his wife, he admits
that he had had strange experiences, and finds it hard to
suggest an explanation.
“ Then again,” he writes, “ there is the theory that the board is
moved by some influence — a sort of devil theory in fact. It would
hardly be necessary to do more than mention this theory here were
i
128 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
it not for the fact that, in our own records, there is so much evidence
of evil influences and minds at work that something of the sort is
certainly suggested. Of course I do not . . . think that an actual devil,
with cloven hoofs and a tail, is behind the board moving it; but the
answers to certain questions certainly seemed to suggest that an in­
telligence was operative — an intelligence of a low, cunning, mali­
cious, lying, and altogether detestable character. . . . It is quite cer­
tain that the intelligence doing the writing was as different as pos­
sible from that of any of the circle. . . . On several occasions it called
Mrs. Carrington and others names which they had never even heard
of until they saw them spelled out on paper, and which are of such
a nature that I cannot give them here.” 30
Of cases of obsession which all who have much practical
acquaintance with Spiritualism undoubtedly regard as not
an imaginary but a real danger, I do not propose to say
much.
That such occurrences are not uncommon almost any vol­
ume of an old Spiritualist magazine31 will suffice to prove.
Representative exponents of the theory of communication,
such, for example, as Mr. Stainton Moses, recur to the sub­
ject again and again, and sober modern experimenters like
Mrs. Travers Smith are sufficiently convinced of the un­
pleasant consequences of such an experience as to urge ex­
treme caution. A voluminous work published in the seven­
ties by Mrs. Maria M. King, an enthusiastic believer, fully
admits the fact of obsession, while contending that the phe­
nomena are produced by spirits who, meaning well, un­
wittingly interpose their influence where it does mischief.
Disregarding her explanation, it is interesting to find this
lady saying;
“ Obsessions by this grade of spirits are common among the lower
class of investigators, who hold circles for amusement and to gratify
"Carrington, Problems, p. 375.
"See, for example, Light, for 1896.
WHAT COMES OF IT 129
idle curiosity. Examples are not wanting where obsessions, in such
circles, have ended disastrously for sensitives, who have acted the
part of mediums under an influence they were unable to resist, which
was of combined magnetic force, of spirits and sitters, that formed a
battery so strong and so distracting as to craze the poor victim.
“ . . . Strong men have been smitten with a species of madness that
has developed into insanity and culminated, in some instances, in
self-destruction by starvation or other means. The instances of this
character that have occurred and are occurring among both sexes in
consequence of the misapplication of the law of development are
more numerous than is generally supposed by the advocates of the
harmful practice so much in vogue, although exaggerated greatly by
some statisticians.” 32
As an illustration of the kind of case which is of frequent
occurrence, I take one from India. In 1880 an English med­
ical man wrote to the Theosophist concerning a patient of
his “who was being made a medium against his wish.” He
had attended a few spiritualistic séances for the purpose of
witnessing materialisation, and ever since he had been more
or less subject to a series of persecutions by the controlling
spirit, so that in spite of every effort of his to throw off the
influence “he has been made to suffer most shamefully and
painfully . . . the bodily functions overruled, even being
caused to bite his tongue and cheeks most severely whilst
eating.” The correspondent adds that “the most painful fea­
tures are not such as I can write to you,” but we learn from
further editorial comments that the unfortunate man had
become “ the bond-slave of some evil powers which force him
to say and do painful and even disgusting things despite his
resistance.”33
This, no doubt, was an extreme case, and it may have been
a form of insanity, but there is every reason to believe that
"K ing, Principles of Nature, Vol. Ill, p. 42.
" The Theosophist, May, 1880, p. 207.
130 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
contact with spirit influences nearly always expose the rash
experimenter to some danger of being dominated by un­
known forces which may monopolize his energies and ab­
sorb him to the point of neglecting all other duties and in­
terests. As far back as 1852, the Rev. C. Hammond, who
seems to have been the earliest automatist to publish his
script, says of himself: “ Since I have become a writing me­
dium, I have found no leisure to read any book. In fact, my
taste for reading the productions of human wisdom is all
absorbed in the divine.” 34 This seems to me an extremely
unhealthy state of things, and the same condition of mind
often results from the efforts of grief-stricken mothers and
widows to communicate by writing or voice mediums with
the spirits of those they have lost. I learn from a book pub­
lished a few years since, that Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.S.,
though an ardent spiritualist, was deeply impressed by the
dangers of this sort of spirit intercourse. He used to tell of
a man who, “having practised automatic writing, became
absolutely incapable of writing the simplest note without
his hand being used by other agencies.” The writer, Miss
Jane T. Stoddart, tells us that Wallace “had a strong belief
in the existence and activity of malignant low-grade spirits,
who seek to gain control over men.”35 We need not attempt
to determine more precisely what kind of spirits they are,
but the whole difficulty lies there.
Something further ought perhaps to be said upon the
question of Spiritualism and insanity. There has been much
foolish exaggeration on both sides of the controversy. Many
years ago, Dr. Forbes Winslow declared that there were ten
thousand lunatics in our asylums who had been brought
“ C. Hammond, The Pilgrimage of Thomas Paine (New York: 1852), Preface,
p. ix.
,5Stoddart, The Case Against Spiritualism (19 19 ), p. 93,
WHAT COMES OF IT 131
there through their practise of Spiritualism. This statement,
I understand, he afterwards retracted, but it continues to be
quoted even by neuropath specialists like Dr. Schofield,
who ought to know better. On the other hand, reference
is still often made to an equally ancient pronouncement con­
tained in the pamphlet of an American writer, Dr. Eugene
Crowell. Sir A. C. Doyle, for example, in a newspaper con­
troversy in which I happened to take part some years back,
alleged that “Dr. Crowell examined the asylums of New
England where Spiritualism is very common and found,
out of 16,000 lunatics, four spiritualists and, I regret to say,
222 clergymen!” To this I replied:
“ Here is the passage in Dr. Cromwell’s pamphlet upon which Sir
Arthur’s statement is based. ‘In 42 of the published reports of insti­
tutions for the insane which have come to hand, there are tables
showing the previous occupations of the patients admitted or treated
within one or more years and from them I find that out of a total
of 32,313 male patients, 215 are set down as clergymen, while in the
same reports the total number of male and female spiritualists is only
45. Insane clergymen are here in the proportion of one to every 150
inmates, while the proportion of insane spiritualists is only one in
every 7 1 1.’34
“ It will be noticed that Sir Arthur’s figures are a little inaccurate.
The spiritualists numbered, not 4, but 45, and even the clergymen
were, not 222, but 215. But, what is much more important, I note
that as the 215 were persons whose occupation was entered as that
of clergyman, the 45 were presumably persons whose ‘occupation’
was that of spiritualist. Few persons except mediums are spiritualists
by ‘occupation.’ If a spiritualist doctor or a spiritualist shoemaker
had been an inmate of one of these asylums there is no reason to
think that he would have been entered as anything else but doctor
or shoemaker. His spiritualism would not necessarily have been
mentioned at all. Statistics of this kind may be made to prove any­
thing, and it should be noted that the Dr. Crowell concerned was
‘Crowell, Spiritualism and Insanity, p. 7.
132 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
not a medical superintendent compiling an official report, but an
ardent spiritualist writing a controversial pamphlet.”
Sir Arthur admitted that his quotation, made hastily from
memory, was inaccurate, and, in his final contribution to
the correspondence, wrote: “ I willingly acknowledge the
moderation of Father Thurston’s letter. The fact is that when
the strong wine of religious emotion comes to a neurotic, it
matters little what sect he or she may belong to, and we may
all live in glass houses in this respect.” 37
r See The Southport Visitor, from January 22 to March 2, 1920.
C h a p t e r VII
T H E BIBLE AN D CH RISTIAN TRAD ITIO N
It h a r d l y needs saying that Holy Scripture throughout its
whole content is quite uncompromising in the language it
employs concerning those who practise divination and traf­
fic in the occult. There is no reason to develop the theme at
any length, but the respect for Holy Writ and for tradition
which the Church always inculcates will not allow us to
leave this aspect of the subject altogether unnoticed.
Magic, in some shape or form, is found among all primi­
tive peoples, and it certainly existed among the Hebrews.
Admitting that it was foreign to their own monotheistic in­
heritance, they none the less learned something about it from
the native races of Syria, Babylonia, Egypt, and Arabia with
whom they were brought into contact. To find a satisfactory
definition of witchcraft or of magic is by no means easy,
and Biblical scholars are often perplexed by the difficulty of
choosing the proper equivalent for the terms which are used
in the Hebrew text. But the practises of the séance room
would undoubtedly have been accounted by the Jews as a
form of divination or necromancy. Against all such com­
merce with the occult the prohibitions of the Law were
very strong. “Go not aside after wizards, neither ask any­
thing of soothsayers” we read in Leviticus (xix. 31), and in
the next chapter (xx. 6.) we are told regarding the soul that
disobeys this ordinance : “ I will set My face against that soul
and destroy it out of the midst of its people.” In the Anglican
Revised Version, which more nearly represents the conclu­
sions of modern critical study, we find: “Turn ye not unto
1
3
3
134 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
them that have familiar spirits, nor unto wizards,” and a
recent non-Catholic commentary explains the matter thus:
“ In both cases the idea is of a spirit residing in and mani­
fested through a medium (enchanter).” Also it declares re­
garding one of the two words, as used in the Hebrew: “ this
means a spirit (not necessarily the ghost of a dead man)
specially attached to a particular medium and speaking
through him or her.” 1 If this interpretation, representative
of up-to-date Biblical scholarship, may be accepted, we have
an exact anticipation of the conditions which prevail in mod­
ern seances. The medium, nearly always has a specified
“control,” or in other words “a familiar spirit” — this phrase
has been current in English since at least the middle of the
sixteenth century — who speaks through her lips, often in
an entirely different voice, or else writes by her hand. So
prominent in these cases was the intruding voice that the
Septuagint translators, here and in Isaiah (viii. 19 and xix.
8), employ a Greek word which is the equivalent of “ven­
triloquists.” Similar warnings to those just quoted from
Leviticus are renewed in Deuteronomy (xviii. 10-12), where
we read: “Neither let there be [found among you] any
wizard nor charmer, nor anyone that consulteth pythonic
spirits, or fortune tellers, or that seeketh the truth from the
dead; for the Lord abhorreth all these things and for these
abominations He will destroy them at thy coming.” With
this (the Douay) rendering, the Anglican Revised Version is
in substantial agreement, though it speaks of “necromancers”
instead of “those that seek the truth from the dead,” a word
which from its Greek etymology conveys exactly the same
idea.
How the dead were evoked with the object of obtaining
a knowledge of things hidden or things to come, is described
‘ Bishop C. Gore, A New Commentary on Holy Scripture, 1928, p. 117 .
BIBLE AND CHRISTIAN TRADITION 135
for us in the account given in the First Book of Kings2 of
King Saul’s visit to the witch of Endor. Saul, when the
Philistine armies advanced against him after Samuel’s death,
found himself in desperate straits. Consequently in his great
fear, to quote the Douay version:
“ He consulted the Lord, and He answered him not; neither by
dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets. And Saul said to his servants:
Seek me a woman that hath a divining spirit (in A. V . and R. V.
a familiar spirit) and I will go to her and enquire by her. And his
servants said to him: There is a woman that hath a divining spirit
at Endor. Then he disguised himself: and put on other clothes, and
he went, and twomen with him, and they came to the woman by
night and he said to her: Divine to me by thy divining spirit, and
bring me up him whom I shall tell thee. And the woman said to
him: Behold thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he
hath rooted out the magicians and soothsayers from the land: why
then dost thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to be put to
death? And Saul swore to her by the Lord, saying: As the Lord
liveth there shall no evil happen to thee for this thing. And the
woman said to him: Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said
bring me up Samuel. And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried
out with a loud voice and said to Saul: Why hast thou deceived me?
for thou art Saul. And the king said to her: Fear not, what hast thou
seen? And the woman said to him: I saw gods ascending out of the
earth. And he said to her: What form is he of? And she said: an
old man cometh up, and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul un­
derstood that it was Samuel, and he bowed himself with his face to
the ground and adored. And Samuel said to Saul: Why hast thou
disturbed my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said: I
am in great distress: for the Philistines fight against me, and God
is departed from me and would not hear me, neither by the hand
of prophets nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou
mayest show me what I shall do. And Samuel said: Why asketh thou
me, seeing the Lord has departed from thee, and is gone over to thy
rival? for the Lord will do to thee as He spoke by me, and He will
rend thy kingdom out of thy hand and will give it to thy neighbour
’This in the Protestant Bibles is called the First Book of Samuel, xxviii.
x36 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
David. Because thou didst not obey the voice of the Lord, neither
didst thou execute the wrath of His indignation upon Amalec: there­
fore hath the Lord done to thee what thou sufferest this day. And
the Lord also will deliver Israel with thee into the hands of the
Philistines, and tomorrow thou and thy sons shall be with me, and
the Lord will deliver the army of Israel into the hands of the
Philistines.”
I have quoted this account at length because the agree­
ment with modern mediumistic procedure seems to me very
remarkable. Saul does not see the spirit which has been
evoked, but the woman does, and the spirit speaks to him
through her. She does not recognise Saul at first when in
her normal state, but the moment the spirit comes upon her
and she is entranced, she knows him at once. Some modern
commentators have been so disturbed by this recognition
that they have wanted to modify the text. They urge that in
the passage “when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out
with a loud voice and said to Saul,” the word Samuel by
some copyist’s blunder has been substituted for Saul. What
must have happened, they contend, is that the woman rec­
ognized Saul at once when she looked at him steadily. This,
however, is quite an arbitrary conjecture and there is no
textual authority for it. Most of those who have consulted
mediums at any time will readily admit that this Biblical
account conforms quite strikingly with everyday experi­
ence. The medium only becomes clairvoyant when she is
controlled by her familiar spirit.
There has, of course, been much lively controversy among
commentators, both ancient and modern, as to the nature
of the apparition. Some think that it was nothing but a
trick — a typical case of simulation and ventriloquism on
the part of the woman. Something of a difficulty is caused,
however, by a passage (xlvi. 23) in the Book of Ecclesiasticus,
where the sacred writer refers to this incident and seems
BIBLE AND CHRISTIAN TRADITION 137
plainly to assume that Samuel did himself “ lift up his voice
in prophecy and show King Saul the end of his life.” There
are therefore others who believe that Almighty God allowed
the spirit of Samuel to return to earth for the sake of the
warning thus given to Saul himself and to all the people of
Israel. But even from the time of the early Christian Fathers,
there was yet a third opinion to the effect, that a spirit was
really evoked, though it was not the spirit of Samuel, but a
demon who impersonated him. It would be tedious to de­
bate these various theories, with regard to which no gen­
erally accepted conclusion has yet been reached. I would
only urge that the case stands on all fours with the number­
less incidents which are alleged to happen all round us at
the present day, when, for example, “ Margery” (Mrs. Cran-
don) claims to be in constant communication with her
brother Walter, or when Sir Oliver Lodge believes that he
holds, or at any rate has held, long colloquies with Ray­
mond, his son who was killed in the War. Let us note fur­
ther that there is a very striking incident recorded in the
Acts of the Apostles (xvi), in connection with the visit of
Paul and Silas to Macedonia. We are told of “a certain girl
having a pythonical spirit who brought to her masters much
gain by divining.” She cried after the Apostles saying:
“These men are the servants of the most high God who
preach unto you the way of salvation.” It is remarkable that
there was nothing untrue or disparaging in what the girl
said. On the contrary, such testimony might have seemed
likely to help the preachers in their mission. Nevertheless
when this announcement was repeated, St. Paul, growing
indignant, “turned and said to the spirit ‘I command thee in
the name of Jesus Christ to go out from her.’ And he went
out the same hour.” The girl, in consequence, lost her me-
diumistic powers, and her masters could no longer make
138 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
use of her for their mercenary purposes. Thereupon they
laid an information against St. Paul and his companion, and
we are told how “ the people ran together against them, and
the magistrates, rending off their clothes, commanded them
to be beaten with rods. And when they had laid many
stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the
gaoler to guard them diligently.” There is no occasion to re­
call the story of their miraculous release and the conversion
of the gaoler which followed. The point is that some alien
spirit, not in this case a lying spirit, had spoken through the
lips of the girl, and that St. Paul held that this invasion of
the consciousness and this exercise of preternatural powers
for gain were something in themselves evil and not to be
tolerated even when they worked harmlessly.
Throughout the early Christian centuries the writings of
the Fathers are full of warnings against the many forms of
occultism which, as the pagan historians themselves disclose,
became increasingly prevalent in every part of the decaying
Roman empire. In one of the earliest Christian synods
of which we have detailed record, that of Ancyra, held in
a .d . 314, the following canon was passed:
“ Those who foretell the future and follow pagan customs, or ad­
mit into their houses people (magicians) in order to discover mag­
ical remedies, or to perform expiations, must be sentenced to a five
years’ penance — to three years of substratio (/.<r., they were admitted
to be present at the liturgy, not standing upright, as the rest of the
faithful, but always prostrate) and to two years of praying attend­
ance without communicating.”
The magical and necromantic practises against which the
early Fathers thundered were manifold in their variety.
Some of them were mere superstitions — the use of spells,
amulets, ligaturce (charms tied on), etc. — but the most prev­
alent abuse of all was the belief in mathematici (i.e., astrol­
ogers) who in those days when astronomy and astrology
BIBLE AND CHRISTIAN TRADITION 139
were very imperfectly distinguished, achieved a qualified
recognition with certain Christian teachers who regarded
the calculations of the mathematici as a sort of science. But
there was also an unhealthy craze for “enquiring after hid­
den things and things to come,” as well as for attempts to
communicate with the dead, the two forms of dabbling in
the occult which are mainly instrumental at the present day
in bringing men to consult spiritualistic mediums. Even un­
der the pagan emperors there was much legislation of a
drastic kind prohibiting the publication of oracles and au­
guries and enacting severe penalties against transgressors.
These laws were revived and made more stringent by Con­
stantine and not a few of his successors, but the fashion
spread in spite of all these repressive measures, and the ser­
mons of such sacred orators as Origen, St. Basil, St. John
Chrysostom, St. Methodius, St. Augustine, etc., show clearly
that there were many negligent Christians who succumbed to
the temptation of trying to peer into the future. The Chris­
tian apologist Minucius Felix, who probably wrote in the
second century after Christ, makes it plain, in the 26th
chapter of his treatise Octavius, how insidiously a depend­
ence on auguries and omens had wormed its way into the
life of pagan Rome. Speaking mainly of the oracles he shows
what he thought of the intelligences which thus manifested:
“ The ‘spirits’ (spiritus) are untruthful and elusive. The powers
which belong to them as heavenly beings have been depraved by the
greed and filth of the earth. These same spirits have lost their gift
of simplicity of substance, and laden as they are with all kinds of
iniquity, they do not, while they themselves are ruined, cease to
work the ruin of others. Corrupt in themselves, they instill the same
corruption, and having turned against God, they employ base su­
perstitions to keep men at a distance from Him. These spirits are
demons. This the poets proclaim, and the philosophers make it the
theme of their discussions. Of this, too, Socrates in particular was
140 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
aware, when according to the nod and decision of his familiar demon,
he either left things alone or sought them for his own concerns. The
magicians again not only know these demons, but whatever marvels
they trump up, they perform by their aid. It is by their suggestion
and participation that they produce their juggleries, making things
seem to be which do not exist, or hiding from human gaze the things
which really are.”
Although the word demon did not at this period neces­
sarily mean a fallen angel and myrmidon of Satan, still it
was undoubtedly the general opinion of the Fathers of the
Church that the phenomena, the prophetic omens and the
other marvels which led men to have recourse to magicians,
were all brought about by diabolical aid. Tertullian in chap­
ter 57 of his De Anima discourses at some length upon the
evocation of the dead. He speaks in such terms as to make
it clear that many people in his time believed that the dead
could be called back to earth by the sorcerer’s art and could
show themselves in material forms to the curious eyes of the
living. It is all an illusion, he declares; the dead cannot
really come back; and he appeals to the parable of Dives
and Lazarus in which “ the great gulf fixed” between this
world and the next forbids any soul to return that has once
passed over. There are only a very few, he adds, whom the
power of God has recalled to their bodies as a testimony to
His supreme dominion over life and death. The spectres
that necromancers conjure up are no more than phantoms,
an hallucination of the senses effected solely by the power
of the spirit of evil.
To anyone at all familiar with the Christian literature of
the early centuries it soon becomes plain that the great teach­
ers of that age looked upon magic in its numberless ramifi­
cations as almost the deadliest enemy with which the Church
had to contend. It was undoubtedly a far more potent in­
fluence throughout the Roman Empire than any lingering
BIBLE AND CHRISTIAN TRADITION 141
attachment to the polytheism of pre-Augustan days; and
allying itself, as it did, with Gnosticism, Manicheism, and
certain other heretical sects, it became in a sense a foe within
the camp tending constantly to undermine the loyalty of the
less observant and by its own marvels, whether diabolical,
natural, or simulated, to obscure and depreciate the miracles
of the Gospels and the supernatural element in the Church’s
life. It would take us too far to attempt to draw out the anal­
ogies to modern Spiritualism which come to the surface in
such documents as the apocryphal Clementine “ Homilies”
and “Recognitions.” The “Philosophumena” of Hippolytus
make it abundantly clear that the marvels at which the un­
critical gaped were then, as now, in great measure, tricks
carried out by more or less clever sleight of hand and auda­
cious imposture. On the other hand, St. Augustine, while
denouncing throughout all his vast literary output, the in­
tervention of diabolical agencies in all the works of the
mathematici, genethliaci, Manicheans, and others, shows
now and again a rather surprising readiness to accept cer­
tain phenomena as the result of some natural psychic power
or condition. But the majority of Christian teachers lacked
the practical experience which St. Augustine’s early intimacy
with the Manicheans and pagan philosophers had given him.
They knew nothing, of course, of hypnotism or telepathy,
and on the other hand they had inherited an almost exag­
gerated belief in the power of the devil and much credulity
regarding the range of diabolic interferences even in the
physical occurrences of man’s everyday existence. It is thus
that we find Pope Sylvester II, one of the most learned and
irreproachable of early mediaeval pontiffs, accused of the
practice of sorcery. The only foundation for such a charge
was that he had taken interest in mechanical devices and was
keen to acquire knowledge of such elementary physical
142 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
science as had filtered through from the East, mainly
through Moslem or Jewish channels. Even a good pious
monk like William of Malmesbury, writing a couple of
centuries later, was ready to tell all the world that Pope Syl­
vester had made a pact with the devil and had in conse­
quence perished most miserably. This belief in time became
part of the popular tradition and was echoed by nearly all
the later mediaeval chroniclers. There can be no doubt that
the conviction that Satan was everywhere active and was
continually plotting not only against man’s spiritual good
but also against his temporal well-being, was productive of
a great deal of foolish credulity. Although the Church for
many centuries showed great moderation in her dealings
with those accused of sorcery, still an atmosphere of suspi­
cion developed in the course of time. The more people
spoke and thought about witchcraft and the marvels which
black magic was capable of producing, the more the reputed
witches multiplied. In the end a fanatical mania of persecu­
tion set in among Catholics and Protestants alike which by
an appeal to such texts as that of Exodus xxii. 18, “thou
shalt not suffer a witch to live” justified every severity. The
reaction which followed in the course of the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries is probably in large measure responsible
for the unwillingness of so many at the present day to believe
that genuine phenomena are ever produced by spiritualistic
agencies.
C h a p t e r V ili
T ELEK IN ET IC PHENOM ENA
A l t h o u g h the physical manifestations of Spiritualism may
seem to be trivial, purposeless, and often a mere bait to un­
healthy curiosity, still they provide the readiest demonstra­
tion of the existence of intelligent agencies outside the world
of sense. They are, therefore, of value as a weapon against
crude materialism, and for this reason, even apart from the
question of fact, I should be disposed to deprecate the grow­
ing disposition to regard all such alleged happenings as
fraudulent and illusory. It seems worth while to study the
contentions advanced in a work by the Rev. Baron Johan
Liljencrants, which some years ago was presented and accep­
ted for the degree of doctor of theology in the Catholic Uni­
versity at Washington.1 To regard this book, however,
merely in the light of the ordinary scholastic thesis with
which we are familiar in foreign universities, would be al­
together to underestimate its importance. Issued by a well-
known Catholic firm in a substantial cloth binding, and in­
troduced by a variety of eulogistic appreciations, including
a letter from the then Cardinal Archbishop of Baltimore
and a “Foreword” by Mr. Maurice Francis Egan, late United
States Minister in Denmark, this imposing volume of 300
1Spiritism and Religion: “ Can you talk to the Dead?" including a study of
the most remarkable cases of spirit control; by Baron Johan Liljencrants, A.M.,
S.T.D. (Devin-Adair Co.). From the book itself we learn that Baron Liljencrants
was born and educated in Sweden. He served in the Royal Svea Guards, but
came to America in 1910, at the age of 25, and was there received into the
Catholic Church. After that he made his theological studies and was ordained
to the priesthood in 1915.
143
I
144 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
pages must claim respectful consideration. The learned
author informs us in his preface that for the results of
his enquiry he is indebted in large measure “ to the mem­
bers of the Faculty of Sacred Theology in the Catholic
University of America, under whose generous guidance
this work has been presented.” He specially names four of
these professors, and one of the four thus singled out, the
Rev. John A. Ryan, D.D., Professor successively of Moral
Theology and of Sociology, states in a note, printed on a
fly-leaf, that this present volume, i.e., Spiritism and Religion,
“is beyond doubt the best book on the subject in the Eng­
lish language.” And after other remarks in the same strain
he concludes by saying: “ It is scientific without being dry,
and its conclusions will not easily be overthrown.”
What were the conclusions which were thus so cordially
endorsed by the Washington professors? As the matter is
of some importance I wish to be careful not to misrepresent
the author, and we must allow him, as far as possible, to
speak for himself. But seeing that his conclusions are not
clearly formulated until near the end of the volume, the
reader must derive his first impression of the general trend
of the essay from Mr. M. F. Egan’s “Foreword,” where we
read such things as these: “ It seems strange to those around
us that the Fox sisters, Katie King and that colossal impos­
tor, celebrated by Browning, Daniel Dunglas Home, should
ever have been taken seriously, but they were, and by in­
telligent persons too, in my memory.” To describe Home
as “a colossal impostor” is an easy way out of many difficul­
ties, but it takes a good deal for granted. Dr. Liljencrants
himself does not go quite so far, and admits, with Podmore,
that “ Home has the unique distinction among professional
physical mediums never to have been exposed as an im-
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA i4
5
postor.”2 All the same, he does clearly insinuate that Home
was guilty of fraudulent practices, and in particular that the
evidence for his alleged levitations is very faulty. More must
be said about Home later on, but for the moment we are
concerned with the author’s own conclusions. Let me gladly
admit that Dr. Liljencrants does not shirk the responsibility
attending a bold enunciation of his views. Already, on page
178, he tells us: “Our brief survey so far has shown, we think,
the absence of positive evidence for genuine physical phe­
nomena.” This he reiterates on page 194, in the statement
that, according to his interpretation of the facts, “the phys­
ical phenomena could not be proved not to have been me­
chanically produced by the medium. Deliberate fraud was
found in great abundance, and no doubt would have to be
suspected in most cases of physical mediumship.” But natu­
rally it is in the last section of his work that we meet with
his final and most explicit utterances. He leads off with the
remark that “a study of the best authenticated phenomena
on record has failed to show evidence for other than natural
causes, and, consequently, we have arrived at the conclusion
that Spiritism cannot be shown to contain a preternatural
element.” This thought is more fully developed in the fol­
lowing passage, which it seems desirable to quote at length:
“ Our study of the phenomena of Spiritism has led us to the con­
clusion that they do not exceed the powers of nature and that, where
deliberate fraud is absent, they can be referred to psychological causes.
Modern manuals of Moral Theology do not support our view, but
it is to be noted that Theologians have referred the phenomena to
diabolic agencies only where a natural causation would be inadequate
for the explanation. Of course this standpoint must be admitted, but
at the same time it must be admitted that Psychical Research has
failed to show the inadequacy of a natural causation in the vast
1Op. cit., pp. 25 and 134.
146 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
quantity of phenomena which has fallen under its investigation. We
believe that the devil not only can, but actually does, interfere in the
order of things, as has been shown, for instance, in cases of diabolic
possession; but no case should be accepted as diabolical in the absence
of sufficient evidence. It is possible, then, that spiritistic phenomena
have been preternaturally caused, but, on the other hand, over thirty
years of careful investigation on two continents have failed to produce
evidence for such contingency.” 3
It is not at all my intention to discuss what may be regard­
ed as the theological aspect of these questions, and even less
to take for granted that all manifestations of the psycho­
physical order which transcend the powers of natural causa­
tion must necessarily be diabolic in origin. But one may be
excused, perhaps, for pointing out, in passing, that the atti­
tude of Dr. Liljencrants does not seem to agree very well
with the long section accorded to this subject in the decrees
of the Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1866. This was ap­
parently the first conciliar pronouncement on Spiritualism
issued in any part of the world, and the bishops there as­
sembled, while fully recognizing that a large proportion of
the manifestations were due to trickery, none the less declare
that “it can hardly be doubted that some, at least, of these
phenomena must be attributed to diabolic agency, since it
is scarcely possible to find any other adequate explanation.”
It is plain, in any case, that Dr. Liljencrants considers that
the criticisms of Mr. Podmore and other like sceptics have
seriously shaken the testimony of Sir William Crookes, Lord
Crawford, Sir Oliver Lodge, Professor Zollner, Professor
Richet, and the whole tribe of believers. He draws the in­
ference that no one in the circumstances need admit that
such phenomena as materialisation, levitation, elongation of
the human body, spirit photography, and the rest are ever
genuine. It may be that the author did not mean to say more
’ Op. cit., p. 273.
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA i4
7
than this, and did not intend to commit himself personally
to the opinion that these things do not happen. One can only
regret, if this be the case, that he has not succeeded in de­
fining his position more clearly. Ninety-nine readers out of
a hundred will certainly carry away the impression that in
the judgment of Dr. Liljencrants, upheld and endorsed by
the Theological Faculty of the Catholic University of Amer­
ica, the most remarkable of the alleged physical phenomena
of mediumship are nothing better than impostures or myths.
This, I venture to urge, is not a helpful attitude of mind
towards these manifestations, especially at the present junc­
ture of affairs; first, because, as I hold, these things do hap­
pen, and the evidence attesting them is becoming every day
more overwhelming; but, secondly, because the systematic
pulling to pieces and discounting of human testimony re­
garding plain issues of fact which this process involves, seems
to me in principle subversive of all belief in the historical
record of the Gospels and, indirectly, of all belief in Chris­
tian revelation.
In setting out to justify this criticism of Dr. Liljencrants’
volume I am tempted, at the outset, to regret that he has so
generally limited his comments to certain famous and much-
discussed examples, giving us, to a large extent, a mere echo
of Podmore, whose defect it was to fasten upon the details
of one well-known incident, ignoring all the confirmatory
phenomena in other quarters. Again it may be questioned
if the performances, however wonderful, of such a medium
as Eusapia Palladino, who, by the testimony of her best
friends, took to wrong courses before she was eighteen, and
who, in the matter of fraudulent phenomena, remained ut­
terly unscrupulous all her life long, ought, under any cir­
cumstances, to be given the chief place in the investigation
with which we are concerned. In the presence of Eusapia
148 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
we know that we arc in an atmosphere of trickery; she will
use every concession made to her to deceive us if she can.
She is just as much an illusionist as the professional conjurer.
As far back as 1873 the spiritualists of Naples did their best
to reclaim her, but, as one of their number wrote, the low
class of “spirits” under whose influence she had fallen ren­
dered all efforts fruitless. “We have done all in our power,”
he continues, “to remedy this evil which deprives us of one
of the best physical mediums in existence.” 4 Much greater
evidential value, as it seems to me, ought by comparison to
attach to those simpler phenomena by which upright and
able men, like Judge Edmonds, Professor Hare, or R. Dale
Owen, in the very infancy of the movement, were won over
to a belief which brought them nothing but obloquy. They
were fully aware that the phenomena were attributed to toe
cracking and other forms of fraud. Further, Judge Edmonds,
Governor Tallmadge, and several other converts of that
period, were used to weighing evidence. The first named
had occupied with credit the highest judicial position in the
United States, which he only resigned on account of the
outcry against him when his spiritualistic convictions be­
came generally known. He lived for twenty years after­
wards, and suffered much for the cause he had made his
own. Every work of reference I have consulted agrees with
the dictum of the Encyclopedia Americana, that Edmonds’
“ moral character was above reproach, and his reputation as
a learned and able lawyer remained unimpaired to the last.”
Now, in the work on Spiritualism written in 1854, in collab­
oration with his friend Dr. Dexter, Judge Edmonds speaks
as follows:
“ On April 23, 1851, I was one of a party of nine who sat round
a centre table, on which a lamp was burning, and another lamp was
‘See Signor Damiani’s letter in The Spiritualist, March 15, 1873, p. 14 0 -1.
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA 149
burning on the mantelpiece. And then, in plain sight of us all, that
table was lifted at least a foot from the floor, and shaken backwards
as easily as I could shake a goblet in my hand. Some of the party
tried to stop it by the exercise of their strength, but in vain; so we all
drew bac\ from the table and by the light of those two burning lamps
we saw the heavy mahogany table suspended in the air.” 5
Again, among many similar experiences, Judge Edmonds
declares:
“ I have known a mahogany chair thrown on its side and moved
swiftly back and forth on the floor, no one touching it, through a
room where there were at least a dozen people sitting, yet no one
was touched, and it was repeatedly stopped, within a few inches of
me, when it was coming with a violence which if not arrested must
have broken my legs.”6
There were plenty of other witnesses who testified to this
class of phenomena. The Hon. N. D. Tallmadge, ex-Gover-
nor of Wisconsin, published a letter he had written on April
12, 1853, describing seances with the Fox sisters which had
taken place at Washington in the preceding February. In
one of these, after certain communications had been rapped
out:
“ The table suddenly moved from the position it occupied some
three or four feet, rested a few moments, then moved back to its
original position. Then it again moved as far the other way, and
returned to the place it started from. One side of the table was then
raised and stood for a few moments at an angle of thirty-five degrees
and then again rested on the floor as usual. The table was a large,
heavy, round table, at which ten or a dozen persons might be seated
at dinner. During all these movements no person touched the table,
nor was any one near it.”7
Further manifestations followed, in one of which a smaller
“Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism, Vol. I, p. 24.
*Appeal to the Public on Spiritualism (New York: 1858), p. 8 (written in
1853).
7E. W. Capron, Modern Spiritualism, its Facts and Fanaticisms (Boston: 1855),
p. 349; sec also Prof. R. Hare, Experimental Investigation (New York: 1858,
5th ed.), pp. 307-312.
148 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
we know that we are in an atmosphere of trickery; she will
use every concession made to her to deceive us if she can.
She is just as much an illusionist as the professional conjurer.
As far back as 1873 the spiritualists of Naples did their best
to reclaim her, but, as one of their number wrote, the low
class of “spirits” under whose influence she had fallen ren­
dered all efforts fruitless. “We have done all in our power,”
he continues, “to remedy this evil which deprives us of one
of the best physical mediums in existence.” 4 Much greater
evidential value, as it seems to me, ought by comparison to
attach to those simpler phenomena by which upright and
able men, like Judge Edmonds, Professor Hare, or R. Dale
Owen, in the very infancy of the movement, were won over
to a belief which brought them nothing but obloquy. They
were fully aware that the phenomena were attributed to toe
cracking and other forms of fraud. Further, Judge Edmonds,
Governor Tallmadge, and several other converts of that
period, were used to weighing evidence. The first named
had occupied with credit the highest judicial position in the
United States, which he only resigned on account of the
outcry against him when his spiritualistic convictions be­
came generally known. He lived for twenty years after­
wards, and suffered much for the cause he had made his
own. Every work of reference I have consulted agrees with
the dictum of the Encyclopedia Americana, that Edmonds’
“ moral character was above reproach, and his reputation as
a learned and able lawyer remained unimpaired to the last.”
Now, in the work on Spiritualism written in 1854, in collab­
oration with his friend Dr. Dexter, Judge Edmonds speaks
as follows:
“ On April 23, 1851, I was one of a party of nine who sat round
a centre table, on which a lamp was burning, and another lamp was
‘See Signor Dainiani’s letter in The Spiritualist, March 15, 1873, p. 14 0 -1.
TELEKIN ETIC PHENOMENA 149
burning on the mantelpiece. And then, in plain sight of us all, that
table was lifted at least a foot from the floor, and shaken backwards
as easily as I could shake a goblet in my hand. Some of the party
tried to stop it by the exercise of their strength, but in vain; so we all
drew bac\ from the table and by the light of those two burning lamps
we saw the heavy mahogany table suspended in the air.”5
Again, among many similar experiences, Judge Edmonds
declares:
“ I have known a mahogany chair thrown on its side and moved
swiftly back and forth on the floor, no one touching it, through a
room where there were at least a dozen people sitting, yet no one
was touched, and it was repeatedly stopped, within a few inches of
me, when it was coming with a violence which if not arrested must
have broken my legs.” 0
There were plenty of other witnesses who testified to this
class of phenomena. The Hon. N. D. Tallmadge, ex-Gover-
nor of Wisconsin, published a letter he had written on April
12, 1853, describing seances with the Fox sisters which had
taken place at Washington in the preceding February. In
one of these, after certain communications had been rapped
out:
“ The table suddenly moved from the position it occupied some
three or four feet, rested a few moments, then moved back to its
original position. Then it again moved as far the other way, and
returned to the place it started from. One side of the table was then
raised and stood for a few moments at an angle of thirty-five degrees
and then again rested on the floor as usual. The table was a large,
heavy, round table, at which ten or a dozen persons might be seated
at dinner. During all these movements no person touched the table,
nor was any one near it.” 7
Further manifestations followed, in one of which a smaller
'Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism, Vol. I, p. 24.
'Appeal to the Public on Spiritualism (New York: 1858), p. 8 (written in
1853).
’E. W. Capron, Modern Spiritualism, its Facts and Fanaticisms (Boston: 1855),
p. 349; see also Prof. R. Hare, Experimental Investigation (New York: 1858,
5th ed.), pp. 307-312.
I 5° TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
table, with Tallmadge sitting upon it, was raised in the air.
It would be easy to multiply similar testimonies made by
people of standing who had nothing to gain and everything
to lose by this championship of an unpopular cause, but I
prefer to draw attention to a letter written to Mr. Henry
Spicer by an American gentleman in Baltimore, whose ac­
quaintance he had made when visiting the States the year
before. At the time of the visit this “ Mr. G.” had “paid no
more attention to the rappings than such as one might con­
sider due to an ingenious hoax,” but personal experience in
the interval had somewhat modified his views. He testifies
to the extraordinary multiplication of mediums, and then
remarks:
“ This really curious subject . . . is cutting a wide swathe through
the established common-sense experiences of our people, and leaving
behind it insanities and hallucinations of a most distressing character,
not infrequently productive of results of far too grave a nature to be
referred to a cause so shallow as mere charlatanism, or trickery of
designing persons.”
This, I confess, strikes me as the remark of an eminently
sensible observer. Mr. G. goes on to say that his own experi­
ence was limited to three sittings with the medium Miss Ada
Hoyt at a house in East Boston. Upon the rappings and an­
swers to questions, he comments:
“ I am satisfied that they are phenomena; that they are not produced
or controlled by any agency on the hither side of nature. I am more
inclined to call them subnatural than supernatural, but certainly they
lie out of the jurisdiction of an established code of physical laws. . . .
The table was lifted from the floor and moved aside, while four of
us (Dr. C., the two Messrs. O. and myself) were grasping it firmly
and pressing it direcdy downwards. We held communications with
the unseen intelligences, but I am sorry to say their contributions to
our desire for knowledge were of no substantial value. Indeed, with
a few slightly indicated exceptions, the set we had fallen in with
seemed to have litde respectability to commend them. They were, in
TELEKIN ETIC PHENOM ENA 151
truth, a shabby crew. They would lie, and the truth was not in them.
They would seldom have the decency to confess their ignorance of
any subject on which they were questioned, but answered generally
very promptly. Occasionally we detected one passing himself off for
another person whose name he had assumed.”
The author of the book (H. Spicer) did not apparently
feel justified in printing the name of his correspondent with­
out express permission. But the “Dr. C.” mentioned in the
letter, also happened to send an account of these sittings, and
in his case Spicer had no scruple in informing his readers
that Dr. Coale, of Boston, was the person referred to. This
second witness declares like the first:
“ The movement of the table was, however, very remarkable. Three
of my friends present, all able-bodied men and of good weight, tried
to hold the table down, while I also did my utmost to keep it firm.
It was, however, raised from the ground, and swayed to and fro,
the medium remaining perfectly passive and laughing at our in­
effectual efforts to resist the movement.”8
Taken in conjunction with a profusion of other similar
firsthand experiences, this evidence seems to me excellent.
There was no exclusion of light. In seances conducted in
pitchy darkness, with entranced mediums groaning, or stir­
ring uneasily, nerves are often in an acute state of tension,
and an ideal atmosphere is created for hallucinations of
every kind. But there was nothing of the sort here. More­
over, Judge Edmonds and ex-Governor Tallmadge were
men who had legal training and experience. They must have
known the value of evidence. Edmonds does not tell us the
names of the mediums responsible for the many wonderful
phenomena he witnessed, but D. D. Home was almost cer­
tainly one of them. Whether the Judge was ever present at
'See Spicer, Sights and Sounds (London: 1853), pp. 36 3-371. The seances
described must have taken place in 1852. The whole account is well worth
reading, and the evidential character of certain fragments of information which
were given can hardly be questioned.
152 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
the seances which Home, then a young man under twenty,
gave in the house of Mr. Rufus Elmer, of Springfield
(Mass.), I have not been able to learn, but a statement,
signed by Mr. Elmer and ten others, attested that on Feb­
ruary 28, 1852 —
“ The table, around which we were seated, was moved by an in­
visible and unknown agency with such irresistible force that no one
in the circle could hold it. Tw o men — standing on opposite sides
and grasping it at the same time, and in such a manner as to have
the greatest possible advantage — could not by the utmost exercise
of their powers, restrain its motion. In spite of their exertions the
table was moved from one to three feet. . . . Five men, whose united
weight was 855 pounds, stood on a table (without casters) and the
table, while the men were so situated, was repeatedly moved a dis­
tance of from four to eight inches. . . . The manifestations occurred
in a room thoroughly illuminated!”9
One more early manifestation, in which Home again fig­
ured, will not, I trust, exhaust the reader’s patience. It oc­
curred on April 15, 1852, at Mr. Elmer’s house, and among
those present was included the Professor of Electricity and
Chemistry at Harvard, Mr. David A. Wells, who had pre­
viously been quite sceptical regarding spiritualistic phenom­
ena. A statement of what occurred was afterwards drafted,
in which among other things we read:
“ While no visible power was employed to raise the table, or other­
wise move it from its position, it was seen to rise clear of the floor,
and to float in the atmosphere for several seconds, as if sustained by
some denser medium than air. Mr. Wells seated himself on the table,
which was rocked to and fro with great violence, and at length it
poised itself on two legs and remained in this position for some thirty
seconds, when no other person was in contact with the table. . . .
During these occurrences the room was well lighted, the lamp was
’One of the eyewitnesses, Mr. S. B. Brittan, who appended his signature to
this statement — it was printed shortly afterwards in the She\inah, 1852, p. 291
— quotes it in full in his Discussion with Dr. B. W. Richmond (New York:
1853). PP- 233-235-
TELEKIN ETIC PHENOM ENA 1
5
3
frequently placed on and under the table, and every possible oppor­
tunity was afforded us for the closest inspection, and we submit this
one emphatic declaration: We know that we were not imposed upon
or deceived.”10
This statement, signed by Professor Wells and the other
witnesses, was printed and made public. It will be noted that
the phenomena occurred, not on a stage, or with a table
provided by Mr. Home, but in a private house where the
spectators had every facility for examination. Moreover, the
two seances last spoken of were appealed to by Mr. S. B.
Brittan a year later in a printed discussion concerning Spir­
itualism and its phenomena. His opponent, the well-known
American divine, Dr. B. W. Richmond, replying in due
course to each of the contributions of Mr. Brittan, made no
attempt to challenge the evidence of these statements. He
does not directly dispute the facts but he refers vaguely to
“the movement of ponderable bodies by will power,” quot­
ing Simon Magus and the absurd beliefs of the witch hunt­
ers, and then falls back on the phenomena of pith balls
moved by electricity. It is incredible that any controversialist
could adopt such a line of defence if he had seen any rea­
sonable ground for impugning the credibility of the wit­
nesses who were cited.
Now the critic is, of course, free to declare that these ac­
counts are mendacious and written in bad faith, but short
of some such violent hypothesis it is difficult to find any
ground for rejecting them as statements of historical fact.
Suggestion and expectant attention do not make people in
well-lighted rooms see tables rise in the air in spite of efforts
to hold them down. We cannot suppose that a man of the
intellectual standing and practical experience of Judge Ed­
monds would, in three or four years, have deluded himself
I0See S. B. Brittan, A Discussion . . . of Spiritualism, with Dr. B. W. Rich­
mond (New York: 1853), p. 247.
i5
4 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
as to what really happened in his presence, the more so that
these manifestations exercised a determining influence upon
the whole of his after life. If the possibility of malobserva-
tion or lapse of memory be pleaded as sufficient ground for
rejecting such testimony, how can we quarrel with the ra­
tionalist who refuses to accept the evidence for the miracles
of the Gospel. The witnesses in Judea were simple-minded
and uncultured, but we believe their testimony because they
recorded, even at some distance of time, the facts which their
own eyes had beheld. If Judge Edmonds’ experience had been
an isolated one, more difficulty might be felt, but we have
literally scores of able men who aver that they have wit­
nessed exactly similar phenomena. Like him, they came to
the investigation incredulous, and went away convinced.
The trouble is that it is impossible to give any idea of the
amount or the cogency of the evidence which is available.
A large number of representative spiritualists, e.g., Professor
Robert Hare of the University of Pennsylvania,11 Mr. Crom­
well Varley, F.R.S., Signor Damiani, and Mr. W. H. Har­
rison, afterwards editor of The Spiritualist, to name only a
few, began by being absolute sceptics regarding the phenom­
ena.12 Professor Hare seems to have been finally convinced,
after a long series of scientific experiments, by observing the
movement of heavy tables under circumstances which pre­
cluded any possibility of natural causation. The fact that
both he and Judge Edmonds were afterwards led to attach
serious import to the fantastic communications from the
spirit world obtained by automatic writing does not seem
to me to invalidate in any way testimony regarding the phys-
” See especially Hare, Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations,
pp. 13 1 seq.; pp. 38 -4 1, and 46.
1JFor Mr. Varley and Signor Damiani see the Dialectical Society’s Report on
Spiritualism, pp. 157 and 195. Mr. Harrison recounts his experiences in The
Spiritualists, March 5, 1875.
TELEKIN ETIC PHENOMENA 1
5
5
ical manifestations which they witnessed. When they affirmed
that in a good light they saw heavy tables shift their posi­
tion, tilt right over, and even hang suspended in the air
without contact, it is impossible to believe either that their
eyes deceived them or that they were lying. A young child
would be competent to decide whether these things did or
did not happen. Probably the most remarkable record of such
phenomena ever published is that contained in the once scarce
volume, Experiences in Spiritualism with Dr. D. D. Home,
which was privately printed in 1869 by the then Lord Adare
and his father, the (third) Earl of Dunraven.13 Lord Adare,
afterwards fourth Earl of Dunraven, not long before his
death wrote to the newspapers to bear witness that in more
than half a century his opinion of the facts had undergone
no change. Over seventy séances, held between 1867 and
1869, are described in his book, and the names are given of
some fifty people who were present on different occasions.
A copy of the report was sent to each “with a request that if it
coincided with their own recollection of what took place they
would kindly allow their names to be appended as testify­
ing to its accuracy.” We are told that every answer was in
the affirmative as to the correctness of the accounts. The
names given include those of scientists like Dunraven him­
self, the Earl of Crawford, and Dr. Gully (the father of
Viscount Selby, Speaker of the House of Commons), law­
yers, soldiers, literary men, and a number of ladies well known
in London society. The descriptions seem to have been written
down within a day or two after the séances, and they are for
the most part carefully dated. Although, unfortunately,
definite information regarding the lighting of the room is
not always given, still, in many of the accounts, there is men-
” lt has now been reprinted by the English Society for Psychical Research in
Vol. XXXV of their Proceedings.
156 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tion of lamps, candles, or a bright fire. What lends addi­
tional interest and reliability to the volume is the fact that
Lord Dunraven, père, a convert to Catholicism, although
fully satisfied as to the reality of the phenomena, by no means
proclaims himself a spiritualist. He asserts that “admitting
even that the spirits are those of departed human beings, the
difficulty of identification renders the whole subject at this
present stage rather unsatisfactory,” and he adds, “I cannot
conceal my own state of doubt as to the source from which
the phenomena of Spiritualism proceed, and my decided
impression of the danger which in some respects seems pos­
sibly to accompany its pursuit or adoption.” 14
I am not proposing to discuss the more out-of-the-way
manifestations, but confining ourselves for the present to
the movement and levitation of furniture, of which more
than a score of examples are recorded in Lord Adare’s vol­
ume, it seems impossible to believe that, in the endless va­
riety of conditions described, the spectators were always im­
posed upon. For example, in the very first séance at which
Adare assisted, held at Malvern in the house of a Mrs.
Thayer, there was a large lamp on the piano and two lighted
wax candles, with pencil and paper, on the table, which was
a heavy one. The table was repeatedly tilted up at an angle
of 45 degrees. The surface was smooth, polished mahogany,
yet the candles, paper and pencil did not move. Then, Lord
Adare continues:
“ The table was moved up against my chest and, as I pushed back
my chair, it followed me up until the back of my chair was against
the window and I could go no further; the table was then pushed
close up against me. . . . Then a chair that was standing against the
wall, at a distance of perhaps five yards, came suddenly and quickly
“ Preface, pp. xvi and xx.
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA 1
5
7
out from the wall and placed itself beside me at the table. The effect
was startling.” 15
Surely no one will suggest that Lord Adare, writing this
account for his father’s perusal the next day, fabricated these
incidents, or had dreamt them, or had been deceived by
some mechanical apparatus attached to the chair which his
eyes were unable to detect. Or who again will suggest de­
lusion as explaining the following incident after a seance at
7 Buckingham Gate? We went into the next room, writes
Lord Adare, and —
“ We were at supper, eating, drinking, and chatting very merrily
[assuredly not in the dark], not talking of, or, I believe thinking
about, Spiritualism, when there came a knock at the door. Charlie
(Capt. Wynne) turned his head and said, “ Come in.” The door did
not open; but the next moment there came knocks upon the table and
a chair glided out from the wall to the table (no one touching it),
and placed itself in the most natural manner between Emmy (Mrs.
Wynne) and Home.” 16
Similarly, on another occasion, when Lord Adare was
sitting writing (and, therefore, presumably in a good light)
alone in a room with Home, “a chair moved very slowly up
to the table, no one touching it, a distance of eight feet eleven
inches.” ” No one will pretend that the writer of these ac­
counts was a credulous and unpractical visionary. Already,
in 1867, he had acted as War Correspondent to the Daily
Telegraph in Abyssinia, and shortly afterwards he dis­
charged the same functions for the same journal during the
Franco-Prussian War and the siege of Paris. A few years
later he published his well-known book, The Great Divide,
and, subsequently, on two occasions, he became Under-
J5Adare, Experiences, p. 2.
16Ibid., p. 93.
''Ibid., p. 148.
158 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Secretary of State for the Colonies. Either the incidents did
happen as described, or Lord Adare was lying, and this latter
alternative is inconceivable.
One feels bound to apologize for the dull monotony of
this type of manifestation. The mere lifting and movement
of furniture is not half so exciting as the appearance of spirit
lights and dim spirit forms, the floating about of musical
boxes, bells, and tambourines, the pluckings and touchings
of materialized hands, the rappings and sledge-hammer
blows which diversified the séances of Eusapia Palladino,
carried on, when she could have her way, in almost pitchy
darkness. But when one has the word of honourable men
like Judge Edmonds or Lord Adare, testifying to what
their eyes beheld under circumstances in which there was no
obscurity of vision, no staging or opportunity for the intro­
duction of mechanical artifices, it seems to me to be a mere
perversity of obstinate scepticism to doubt that these things
really happened. For phenomena of this nature you do not
want the observers to be expert scientists, although there is
no lack of expert scientists, from Sir William Crookes, Sir
William Huggins, and Alfred Russel Wallace, down to Sir
Oliver Lodge, Sir William Barrett, and Professors Lombroso
and Richet who have observed precisely the same movements
under various combinations of circumstances. But every so­
ber-minded man of fair intelligence knows, if he proclaims
that he saw a table suspended in the air or moving of itself,
that he is making a serious demand upon the credulity of
his hearers. If he is an honest man, he will not affirm it un­
less he is convinced that the circumstances precluded all pos­
sibility of a natural explanation, and it is not always the man
who is most profuse in details and in reasons to justify his
conviction that is the most trustworthy witness to the fact
itself. To determine the reality of the physical phenomena
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA i5
9
of Spiritism in general we do not really need to go beyond
the movement and levitation of material objects. I am not,
of course, suggesting that because we have established the
fact of levitation, such other phenomena as materialization,
or apports through closed doors, or spirit lights, must follow
of themselves, but we have at least shown that some of these
physical manifestations lie outside the range of natural causa­
tion, and the proved existence of one form of “miracle” paves
the way for the more ready acceptance of others.
In this matter of the movement and levitation of furniture
excellent evidence is provided in the Report on Spiritualism,
issued by the Dialectical Society in 1871. The first sub-com­
mittee in particular, possibly on account of the greater har­
mony of its members, obtained very good results. No paid
mediums were employed, but the sub-committee included
more than one medium among its own body. These, we are
told, were “persons of good social position and of unim­
peachable integrity, having no pecuniary object to serve and
nothing to gain by deception.” All the meetings took place
in the private houses of members of the committee, and ex­
cept when expressly stated were conducted in good gas light.
Further, we are told that:
“ Of the members of your sub-committee about four-fifths entered
upon the investigation wholly sceptical as to the reality of the alleged
phenomena, firmly believing them to be the result either of imposture
or of delusion, or of involuntary muscular action. It was only by
irresistible evidence, under conditions that precluded the possibility
of either of these solutions, and after trial and test many times re­
peated, that the most sceptical of your sub-committee were slowly
and reluctantly convinced that the phenomena exhibited in the
course of their protracted inquiry were veritable facts.” 18
After forty meetings, distributed over more than a year,
the members reported:
“ Report on Spiritualism (Longmans, 18 7 1), p. 9.
i6o TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
“ That under certain bodily or mental conditions of one or more
of the persons present, a force is exhibited sufficient to set in motion
heavy substances, without the employment of any muscular force,
without contact or material connection of any kind between such
substances and the body of any person present.”
They also declared that this force on occasion produced
knockings and vibrations and that it was frequently directed
by intelligence. Further, they appended, by way of illustra­
tion, an account of one particularly successful sitting in the
following terms:
“ After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a
dining table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had
occurred, the chairs were turned with their backj to the table, at
about nine inches from it. All present then knelt upon their chairs,
placing their arms upon the backs of the chairs. In this position
the feet were, of course, turned away from the table, and by no
possibility could be placed under it or touch the floor. The hands
were extended over the table at about four inches from the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table could not take
place without detection.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times; at
first about five inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the op­
posite side, then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about
a foot from the table. In this position, the table again moved four
times, over spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the
chairs were removed twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before.
Each person folded his hands behind his back, his body being about
eighteen inches from the table, and having the back of the chair
between himself and the table. In this position the table again moved
four times, in like manner as before. In the course of this conclusive
experiment, and in less than half an hour, the table moved, without
contact or possibility of contact with any person present, twelve times,
the movements being in different directions, and some according to
the request of different persons present.
“ The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and
taken to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was
conducted throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA 161
“ Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty sim­
ilar motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses
of different members of your committee, and with the application of
the most careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
An even more striking experience of the same kind is
recorded by Mr. E. W. Cox, serjeant-at-law, the founder of
the Law Times and the author of several important legal
works. The dining table used was an unusually heavy one,
twelve feet long; eleven persons were present who were
standing quite clear of the table, in a well-lighted room,
forming a circle around it. Under these circumstances the
table, by a series of lurches, turned almost completely round,
“ that is to say, the end that was at the bottom of the room
at the beginning of the experiment was at the head of it at
its close.” But the most startling incident was the finale:
“ The table,” writes Serjeant Cox, “ had been turned to within about
two feet of a complete reversal of its first position and was standing
out of square with the room. The party had broken up and were
gathered about in groups. Suddenly the table was swung violently
over the two feet of distance between its then position and its proper
place, and set exactly square with the room, literally knocking down
a lady who was standing in the way, in the act of putting on her
shawl for departure. At that time nobody was touching the table, nor
even within reach of it, except the young lady who was knocked
down by it.” 19
If these manifestations seem to be of a commonplace or­
der and of relatively ancient date, they are chosen partly
because innumerable other examples of similar phenomena
are available, attested by witnesses not quite so well known
as Judge Edmonds or Lord Adare, partly because an interval
of time is perhaps desirable to allow facts to be seen in their
right perspective. The experience of later investigators of
physical phenomena, far from invalidating, has immensely
” E. W. Cox, Spiritualism Answered by Science (18 7 1), pp. 6, 7, and 25; and
cf. Report of Dialectical Society, p. 103.
162 TH E CHURCH AN D SPIRITUALISM
strengthened the argument deducible from our older records.
I can find nothing in Dr. Liljencrants’ dissertation which
offers any sort of plausible explanation of the movement of
heavy tables and chairs, without contact, seen by witnesses
of unquestionable integrity in a good light. No doubt a critic
who approaches the subject from the standpoint of the late
Mr. Podmore, will always be able to pick holes in each sep­
arate piece of evidence. But a Christian believer who accepts
the scheme of apologetic adopted by Catholic theologians
almost without exception, is constrained to defend the evi­
dence for the miracles of the New Testament as established
by the Gospels and Acts, considered simply as historic docu­
ments. Any sound belief in the inspiration of Scripture must
depend upon our assurance of the divine personality and
mission of Jesus Christ, and in order to establish these we
must be able to treat the New Testament narrative as a
trustworthy record. The line of argument followed by Dr.
Liljencrants, in close imitation of Mr. Podmore, would, it
seems to me, cut the ground from under the acceptance of
normal human testimony for any miraculous event.
It may very naturally be objected that the examples I have
appealed to here are all half a century old or even older. To
this one may in the first place reply that the Gospel miracles,
upon the reality of which every system of Catholic apologetic
is based, are not merely fifty but nearly forty times fifty
years old. Furthermore the tendency of recent psychic re­
search has been to experiment with mediums who rarely
produce phenomena except in very inadequate light. There
seems to be a fashion in these things, and of late the main
effort has been directed towards obtaining new forms of
manifestations, ectoplasmic materializations, apports, finger
prints, paraffin moulds, etc. For all these, darkness seems to
be required, and to my thinking, however rigorous the con-
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA 163
trol maintained, such experiments are never entirely satis­
factory. The movement of heavy tables, or other furniture,
without contact and in a good light, when recorded by in­
telligent observers, is much more convincing. One still hears
of these things happening in private circles but the better
known mediums at the present day apparently no longer
“sit for” such phenomena. Still it is very interesting to read
in Father C. M. de Heredia’s lately published Spanish book,
Los Fraudes Espiritistas y los Fenómenos Metapsiquicos
(1931), how in five séances he has had with the medium
“ S” the “movements produced in a large dining table with
six legs were truly extraordinary” (p. 263). Only the me­
dium was in contact with the table. Father de Heredia and
two friends of his were the only people present, but were
there merely as spectators. The room was one which the
medium had never visited before and it was fully lighted.
It is noteworthy that the Father does not in any way suggest
that trickery was responsible for the extraordinary move­
ments he observed. On the contrary, he, though himself an
expert conjurer and a leader in the campaign against fraud­
ulent phenomena, declares that the conditions were such as
to exclude the possibility of imposture and that the me­
diums were people above suspicion (personas de entera con­
fianza, p. 260). With the smaller tables used to obtain raps,
violent movements are still of very common occurrence and
are frequently mentioned by the observers. Many instances
of this kind might be quoted from Sir Oliver Lodge’s book
Raymond and in the course of a fuller discussion in Chapter
XIV of that work the author speaking from the experience
of his own family circle, remarks:
“ A light table (used for communications) under these conditions,
seems no longer inert, it behaves as if animated. For the time it is
animated — somewhat perhaps as a violin or piano is animated by
164 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a skilled musician and schooled to his will — and the dramatic ac­
tion thus attained is very remarkable. It can exhibit hesitation, it
can exhibit certainty; it can seek for information, it can convey it; it
can apparently ponder before giving a reply; it can welcome a new­
comer; it can indicate joy or sorrow, fun or gravity; it can keep time
with a song as if joining in the chorus; and most notable of all it
can exhibit affection in an unmistakable manner.”
However fanciful this sounds, I am bound to say that the
personal experience of many trustworthy people well known
to me entirely bears out the impression conveyed. Moreover,
similar observations are met with repeatedly in the published
literature of the subject. Taking, for example, the latest work
of the kind which has come into my hands — We are Here,
by Judge Ludvig Dahl (1931) — we are told how the in­
visible spirit of his son, so the Judge believes, communicated
through a light table.
“ He displayed the most exuberant joy, whirled the table from
under the hands of those sitting around it, and into my lap, as I was
sitting merely as a passive spectator of this scene. We all felt deeply
moved” (p. 27).
Let me note also that while recently we have heard much
less of the movement of big dining-room tables such as those
described in the experiences of Judge Edmonds, still a type
of manifestation involving the use of great physical force is
known to occur with certain mediums. Miss Kathleen Go-
ligher was one of these. Suspicion, it must be confessed, had
been cast upon her phenomena, especially the materialisation
phenomena, by the report of E. Fournier d’Albe in 1922, but
it is very difficult to reject the testimony of such observers
as Mr. W. Whately Smith and Sir William Barrett who sat
with her during the years 1915 and 1916. This is printed in
the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research (Vol.
X X X , 1919, pp. 306-337), and is concerned only with the
knockings and the physical movements of the table. The
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA 165
former witness declares that though he exerted a pressure
of fully 100 lbs. weight, he could not prevent the table from
moving. “At one time the table was made so heavy that I
could not lift it; at another, when I had for a moment re­
laxed my grip, it levitated within six inches of me.” Sir
William Barrett says: “Then the table began to rise from the
floor until it reached a height of some twelve or eighteen
inches and remained thus suspended and quite level.” He
and a friend, Dr. W., were allowed to go beneath the clasped
hands of the sitters into the circle and try to force the table
down. “This both of us found it impossible to do. . . . I then
sat on the table when it was about a foot from the floor, and
it swayed me about, finally tipping me off.” But the whole
description ought to be read in order to obtain an adequate
idea of the strength of the evidence. It must not be forgotten
that both Sir William Barrett and Mr. Whately Smith were
experienced observers, fully alive to the possibilities of me-
diumistic trickery. To this I would add that Sir William
Barrett, who was at one time president of the (English) So­
ciety for Psychical Research records in the Proceedings (Vol.
IV, pp. 25-44) some other remarkable examples of the phys­
ical movement of tables observed by himself. In one of these
there was no contact with the table of any kind, and in per­
haps the most notable case the medium was a little child of
ten, in whose presence raps and partial levitation of the
table occurred in full daylight.
Father de Heredia seems to entertain the idea that raps
and even the violent movements of tables are produced by a
purely natural force (una fuerza de origen puramente na­
tural) which is exercised and controlled by the subconscious­
ness of the medium. This hypothesis apparently approxi­
mates closely to the “psychic force” postulated by Sir
William Crookes and Serjeant Cox, but it is open to many
166 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
difficulties. The force, as the examples quoted above would
show, is frequently exerted without any physical contact
with the object moved, moreover it is found associated with
an intelligence and knowledge which cannot easily be ex­
plained by anything in the medium’s past history. But per­
haps no better evidence can be found of the reality of the
force exerted at a distance and at the same time of the im­
possibility of regarding it merely as a blind explosion of
energy, such as we see in the thunderclap, than the accordion
phenomena which were so peculiarly associated with the
mediumship of D. D. Home. They may naturally claim a
chapter to themselves.
C h a p t e r IX
T H E ACCORDION PLA Y IN G OF D. D. HOME
T h e name of Father C. M. de Heredia has already been
mentioned, and many of my readers will probably be famil­
iar with his book, Spiritism and Common Sense, which,
published in 1922, went through two editions in six months
and has been translated into German, Dutch, and Portuguese.
It is to be noted that this distinguished Jesuit Father does not
reject all physical phenomena indiscriminately as fraudulent.
On the contrary, in his later work, Los Fraudes Espiritistas
(1931), he expressly declares (p. 238) that he is inclined to
believe that the levitation of such inanimate objects as tables
and stools does take place. But the general impression left
by his lectures and writings would undoubtedly lead the
unobservant to conclude that his point of view does not
notably differ from that of Dr. Liljencrants, who, as we have
just seen, looks upon D. D. Home as no more than an ex­
ceptionally clever impostor. It would be a great simplifica­
tion of many problems if one were able to say that all the
varied manifestations of Spiritualism were merely tricks. But
the strength of the evidence seems to me, as previously ex­
plained, altogether inconsistent with such an easy solution.
The “common sense” which is appealed to on the title page
of Father de Heredia’s book, must compel reasonable men
to recognise the validity of human testimony when that
testimony remains uniform under very varied conditions,
and when the possibility of mal-observation owing to defec­
tive light, etc., is excluded by the circumstances of the case.
Moreover, I repeat that from the logical point of view, Chris-
167
168 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tians who accept the miracles and other historical incidents
recounted in the Gospels, are in an exceptional position.
They cannot consistently throw overboard the reiterated
statements of modern witnesses of credit who relate what
their eyes have seen and their ears heard, in circumstances
which apparently exclude the possibility of deception. Our
whole system of apologetic is based upon the belief that the
evangelists spoke truly when, for example, they recorded
that our Lord walked upon the waters or appeared suddenly
to His disciples in a chamber with closed doors.
To discuss the entire range of Home’s spiritistic phenom­
ena would need much space and is manifestly impossible
here. I propose, then, to confine my present remarks to a
simple type of manifestation, not because it seems to me the
most conclusive, but partly because it is lightly dismissed
both by Father De Heredia and Dr. Liljencrants, and partly
because it is particularly well attested by a great variety of
witnesses. Father de Heredia refers to this particular matter
three times, but the principal passage runs thus:
“ Father Ugarte de Ercilla makes much of Sir William Crookes’
famous experiment with medium Home1 in which an accordion
held by the medium was played, supposedly, by the spirits. The ac­
cordion is held in one hand by the keyless end and the other end
allowed to hang untouched toward the floor, so that manipulation
by the medium is impossible. A wire netting is placed around the
suspended accordion so that no hand can reach the other end to
move the instrument to admit the air necessary for making the
sound, or to press the keys to play the notes. Yet, after a few minutes,
a tune is heard. This demonstration produces an extraordinary effect
on the sitters. It can be done in full light. Usually the accordion is
suspended under a table which is a haunt for spirits, or is, at least,
’This observation refers to a book entitled El Espirirismo Moderno, p. 1 68, and
to a series of articles contributed by Father Ugarte de Ercilla to the periodical
Razdn y Ee in 1922.
ACCORDION PLAYIN G OF HOME 169
so considered. This is generally held as one of the best spiritistic
phenomena.
“ I offer the same demonstration in my lectures. After a few minutes
of expectation, I give a signal to a friend behind the partition, who
plays a tune on another accordion. As he is invisible and as the
source of the sound is not discoverable, especially when attention is
riveted on the simple instrument, the effect is as convincing as the
humbug is simple.” 2
Dr. Liljencrants, following Podmore, suggests a quite dif­
ferent explanation. He writes:
“ The experiment with the accordion was considered by Sir William
Crookes and his assistants as a crucial test. It is evident that Home
could not have played the accordion under the circumstances. On
the other hand, the alleged phenomenon is so extraordinary that we
cannot accept its genuineness unless all possibilities of prestidigitation
or other forms of trickery can be eliminated. This, we think, cannot
be done. . . .
“The music consisted of a few sounds, several notes in succession
and a simple air. What could have been easier for Home than to
produce this quantity of music by a music box carried concealed on
his person? The most natural conclusion is, then, that the accordion
did not play at all, and that the experimenters simply took for granted
that the sounds from the concealed music box issued from the ac­
cordion. There is nothing in Sir William’s account to suggest that he
ascertained the exact source of the music.” 3
Dr. Liljencrants proceeds to discuss the matter further in
some detail, but apparently with no fuller knowledge of the
facts than might be obtained from Sir William Crookes’
brief summary printed in his article and from Podmore’s
Newer Spiritualism. He entirely adopts the latter’s sugges­
tion that “no other apparatus was required for the trick
2De Heredia, Spiritism, pp. 67-68; cf. pp. 63 and 138.
^Liljencrants, Spiritism and Religion, pp. 136 -137 . He pursues the subject, pp.
*38-39* But surely it is not easy to believe that a musical box can be made to
sound like an accordion.
TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
170
than a small musical box, a loop of black silk, and a hook
with a sharp end.” 4
Reading the account given by Fathers de Heredia and
Liljencrants, one would be led to suppose that the accordion
phenomena had only been produced in the seances with Sir
W. Crookes in 1871. In point of fact they were constantly
exhibited by Home during a period of nearly twenty years,
and they have been described in detail by a variety of wit­
nesses far too numerous to specify here. The earliest account
I have met with belongs seemingly to March 17, 1855, be­
fore Home had ever come to England. Mr. Rufus Elmer
states :
“ An accordéon [sic] held under the table in one of Mr. Home’s
hands, the other being on the table, with the keys downward was
played in strong tones, three parts being maintained, and any tune
performed that was called for — even foreign music. The instru­
ment was played upon while held in the same manner by each per­
son present — all hands except the one which held the accordéon
being upon the table in sight. These manifestations were all made in
a room well lighted by gas.”
I quote this, not for its evidential value — all that I know
of Mr. Rufus Elmer, in whose house these manifestations
took place, is that he was a gentleman of some social stand­
ing at Springfield, Massachusetts — but for its early date.
The account is printed in Professor R. Hare’s book, Experi­
mental Investigation.* But assuming the truth of the state­
ment that the accordion played in a private house, not only
when held upside down by the medium, but also when
*Podmore, The Newer Spiritualism, pp. 50-57.
*Experimental Investigation of the Spirit Manifestations. I quote from the
fourth edition of Professor Hare’s book printed at New York in 1856, p. 84. What
we do know of Mr. Rufus Elmer is that scientists from Harvard, like Professor
David Wells, and men of letters, like William Cullen Bryant, attended séances
at this house.
ACCORDION PLAYIN G OF HOME lyi
similarly held by each person present, it would be difficult
to suppose that either a musical box and a black silk thread
or a confederate provided with another accordion in the
next room could adequately account for the music heard.
For a second witness let us take Mr. R. Bell, the lifelong
friend of Thackeray, and himself a man of letters who has
earned a place in the Dictionary of National Biography. Mr.
Bell contributed to the Cornhill Magazine (August, i860)
an article on Home, under the title “ Stranger than Fiction.”
Thackeray, in printing it, guaranteed “the good faith and
honourable character” of the writer. The description of the
accordion playing is far too long to quote in full. Mr. Bell
grows eloquent regarding the beauty of the music: “We
listened with suspended breath. The air was wild, and full
of strange transitions; with a wail of the most pathetic sweet­
ness running through it.” Then he goes on:
“That an instrument should be played without hands is a proposi­
tion which nobody can be expected to accept. . . . The story will be
discarded as a delusion or a fraud. . . . But we need not speculate
upon what might be done by skilful contrivances, since the question
is removed out of the region of conjecture by the fact that upon
holding up the instrument myself in one hand, in the open room,
with the full light upon it, similar strains were emitted, the regular
action of the accordion going on without any visible agency. And I
should add that, during the loud and vehement passages, it became
so difficult to hold, in consequence of the extraordinary power with
which it was played from below, that I was obliged to grasp the top
with both hands. This experience was not a solitary one. I witnessed
the same result on different occasions when the instrument was held
by others.”6
When a newspaper controversy arose, occasioned by this
article, Dr. Gully (of whom more anon), who had also been
present, fully corroborated Mr. Bell’s account. The séance
*Cornhill Magazine, August, i860, pp. 221-222.
172 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
had taken place in the house of a cabinet minister, Mr. Mil­
ner Gibson.
But let me turn now from Mayfair to a country house in
Hampshire. This is what Captain Chawner declares to have
occurred in his home at Newton Vallence in May, 1864:
“ An accordion was played in the most ravishing manner in Mr.
Home’s hand under the table, but we had full opportunity of look­
ing under the table while it so played. He held it in one hand, keys
downward, the other hand being on the table. I asked for the “Last
Rose of Summer,” and in that position, with no human or visible
touch of the keys, it entranced us with its sweet notes, which appeared
to grow fainter and fainter, and at last died away in the distance,
ending with a mournful echo that seemed out of the room. I re­
quested that the instrument might be played upon whilst in my
hand. I held it upside down with one hand. With no visible agent
near, it was first gently shaken, then pulled, and a few chords struck.
Afterwards the pulls and jerks were so forcible that it was with diffi­
culty I could hold it. Another note or two was sounded and then it
remained quiet. I was sitting three feet off Mr. Home when this
occurred, between my wife and sister. Mr. Home had both his
hands on the table. The accordion I had borrowed a few hours pre­
viously in our post town, and Mr. Home never saw it until that
evening. My wife then took it, but though distinctly feeling some­
thing pulling, no sounds were elicited.” 7
Captain E. H. Chawner, of whom an obituary notice may
be found in The Times of December 23, 1916, was a Justice
of the Peace, and a well-known county magnate. In the letter
just quoted, which is dated May 24, 1864, he declares:
“ Collusion is out of the question; delusion I equally repu­
diate. Every facility was offered us for examination. We
looked under the table and some of us even sat under it. I
am as convinced as I am of my own individuality that Mr.
’Spiritual Magazine, August, 1864, p. 378.
ACCORDION PLAYING OF HOME m
Home could not have caused by any human agency the phe­
nomena we witnessed.”8
Mr. Frank Podmore, in his final discussion of the accor­
dion phenomena, makes two very astonishing statements.
“ I know,” he says, “of no instance in which it is recorded as
playing in a good light” ; and he adds, “I am not aware of
any good evidence that the keys were ever seen to move,
and any conjurer, in a light of his own choosing, could make
the instrument contract and expand while he held it by a
loop of strong thread.”9 For a man whose life was spent in
the minute scrutiny of evidence this is a surprising misrep­
resentation. Take, for example, such testimony as the follow­
ing. Writing of Dr. Carpenter’s article in the Quarterly Re­
view for October, 1871, on “ Spiritualism,” G. S. Thompson,
M.D., of Clifton, Bristol, remarks:
“ He [Dr. Carpenter] seems to express a desire that the experiment
be tried in open daylight, and above instead of under a table, and in
the presence of trustworthy witnesses. I think I can satisfy him on
all these points. . . . At a séance in my own house, the accordion,
while suspended by the lower end from one of Mr. Home’s hands
(while the other hand rested on the table), by which he held it at
least two feet above the table, did play, and the whole party consist­
ing of seven persons, heard it, and, moreover, saw the keys and the
bellows move simultaneously. . . . I may also add that the room was
fully lighted, every part of it being distinctly visible.
“ I should also like to state that Mr. Home did not see the accor­
dion till it was given him after we were seated at the table, and that
during the time the accordion was playing, I passed my hand all
round it, in order that I should be perfectly satisfied that nothing
was attached to the keys.” 10
‘Ibid. Cf. Capt. Chawner’s report of another séance with Home, printed in the
Spiritual Magazine, January, 1865, p. 47.
’Podmore, The Newer Spiritualism, pp. 50-51.
10Spiritual Magazine, January, 1872, p. 42. Dr. Thompson gives his full address.
*74 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
But let us take a more scientific witness. Sir William
Crookes, F.R.S., speaking of a seance held at the house of
Miss Douglas, 81 South Audley Street, London, W., on May
9, 1871, records in his contemporary notes:
“ I took particular note that Mr. Home’s feet had boots on and
were both quiet, at some distance from the instrument, and that al­
though the keyed end was rising and falling vigorously and the
keys moving as the music required, no hand, strings, wires or any­
thing else could be seen touching that end.”
He goes on to remark that the room was lit by four can­
dles, one on the table, two on the mantlepiece, one on a side
table, and that there was a wood fire in the grate, though
this was rather dull. The accordion was then given to others,
Home’s two hands remaining on the table, and while they
held it, it played for a time.11 Similarly Crookes’ notes of
another sitting at the same house record that “we then heard
and saw the keys clicked and depressed one after another,
fairly and deliberately, as if to show that the power doing it
had full control over the instrument.” 12 On this occasion
three spirit lamps were used to examine the phenomenon at
close quarters.
I have already made reference to Dr. }. M. Gully, M.D., a
physician living at Malvern, who maintained close relations
with Home for many years. Dr. Gully, of whom an account
is given in the Dictionary of National Biography, was the
father of the well-known Speaker of the House of Commons,
who, before his death, was created Viscount Selby. In a series
of articles contributed to T he Spiritualist in 1873, Dr. Gully
describes at great length the wonderful music played by the
accordion on different occasions when Home was staying
with him at Malvern. These enthusiastic appreciations must
11Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. VI, p. 102.
,sI b i d p. 119 .
ACCORDION PLAYING OF HOME i7
5
be omitted here, but the following precise statement deserves
to be quoted:
“ Frequently the accordion was played whilst lying on the floor or
on the sofa, not near to any of us; and once I recall how it was
played whilst in the air over our heads, but very soon it fell, in con­
sequence of our movements to observe, and the consequent disturb­
ance of the conditions. I have myself held the instrument close to a
bright lamp, Home only standing by the side, but not touching it,
and marked the bellows’ movements and those of the keys while the
spirits were executing the chords.” 13
Dr. Gully was 65 when he wrote this and he lived for an­
other ten years. In view of the other independent evidence
of precisely the same kind, it is difficult to believe that in so
writing he was either hallucinated or insincere. One strik­
ing piece of testimony by Mr. Serjeant Cox is in effect identi­
cal with Dr. Gully’s. Home had been spending the day at
Mr. Cox’s house. After supper, on leaving the dining room,
Serjeant Cox tells us:
“ As Mr. Home and myself were entering the drawing-room lighted
with gas, a very heavy chair that was standing by the fire, thirteen
feet from us, was flung from its place through the whole length of
the room and fell at our feet. No other person was in the room, and
we were crossing the threshold of the door. Mr. Home seated him­
self at the piano and commenced to play and sing. As I was sitting
by his side listening, it occurred to me to try if the accordion would
play in my own hand as in his. I took from the box in which it had
been sent, an instrument I had that day purchased at the Soho Bazaar,
and re-seated myself, holding it by the end opposite to the keys, and
suspended thus between myself and Mr. Home as he continued to
play the piano. Presently I felt the accordion lifted up and down,
and then some notes were sounded, and then it joined, though but
imperfecdy, in the tune he was playing. This was in the light, and,
therefore I am sure it was not, indeed could not be, touched by him,
for he was playing the piano with both hands. I then requested him
to hold the accordion with his left hand (I was sitting on his left),
"The Spiritualist, March I, 1873, p. 125.
176 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
and play an air on the piano with his right hand. He did so, and im­
mediately the accordion held by him with the keys under, played
beautifully in accompaniment to the piano, for at least a quarter of
an hour, three or four tunes. The accordion was then passed to my
hand, and while I held it by the end opposite to the keys, played a
tune perfectly. The force of the upward pressure of the bellows was
so great that it required all the strength of my arm to resist it.” 14
Naturally, here again, everything depends upon the cred­
ibility of our witness. Who was he ? The Dictionary of Na­
tional Biography will tell us that he was a successful barris­
ter, as his legal distinction of Serjeant-at-Law implies. He
wrote many books on jurisprudence, he founded and edited
the Law Times (as well as several other newspapers), and
down to the time of his death, in 1879, he retained the im­
portant official posts of Recorder of Portsmouth and Chair­
man of Middlesex Sessions. As he was a wealthy man, he
could have had no conceivable interest of a pecuniary kind
in lending his support to Mr. Home. Serjeant Cox was
keenly interested in psychology. He founded and was pres­
ident of the Psychological Society and was a member of the
Dialectical Society. He never became a spiritualist, but, like
Sir William Crookes and some others, he ascribed the phe­
nomena he witnessed to what he called “psychic force.” All
things considered, one would be inclined to say that no
better testimony could be offered with regard to any strange
happenings than that of this keen and successful lawyer, who
was also a shrewd man of business.
An apology is undoubtedly due to the reader for this dull
reiteration of statements identical in purport. I can only as­
sure him that the number of the witnesses to Home’s accor­
dion phenomena who are crowded out for lack of space, is
"What am l? A Popular Introduction to Mental Philosophy and Psychology,
by Edw. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, Vol. II, pp. 388-89 (London: Longmans,
1874).
ACCORDION PLAYING OF HOME 177
considerably greater than that of those for whom I have
found room.15 But I must still beg indulgence for two more
citations. The first of these is from TheTimes of December
26, 1872. After the issue of the Report of the Dialectical So­
ciety on Spiritualism, in 1871, The Times, then at the zenith
of its prestige, felt constrained to take some notice of the
subject. A commissioner was appointed by the editor to in­
vestigate the alleged phenomena. He attended some seances
and drew up a statement. But the article was kept back for
more than a year, and was eventually published in a much
edited form, so as not to jar too rudely upon the prejudices
of unsympathetic readers.10 Still, the commissioner was al­
lowed to say that he was utterly at a loss to explain the man­
ifestations he had witnessed. The most important séance took
place in a private house, at first in good light. Mr. Home
and Miss Kate Fox acted as mediums. “On the table,” says
the commissioner, “was an accordion which we took to
pieces and tried and found to be in every respect an ordinary
instrument.” I pass over all the other interesting manifesta-
lsFor those who may pursue the subject, I set down, without by any means
exhausting the list of first-hand testimonies to Home’s accordion phenomena, more
than a dozen more references: ( i) Robert Owen in Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph,
June, 1855, Vol. I, p. 30; (2) Garth Wilkinson, M.D., in the Morning Advertiser,
October 12, 1855; (3) T. D. Barlee in Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, 1856, III,
p. 20; (4) “ A Plain Man” in Sunday Times, February 17, 1861; (5) J. Enmore
Jones in Spiritual Magazine, February, 1861, p. 69; (6) James Hutchinson,
Spiritual Magazine, February, 1861, p. 90; (7) E. T. P. in Journal of the Society
)or Psychical Research, July, 1889, Vol. IV, p. 130; (8) General Boldero, Ibid.,
Vol. IV, pp. 12 4 -12 5; (9) Lord Dunraven (pere), Experiences with D. D. Home,
p. i n ; (10) Professor von Boutlerow, in Mrs. Home’s The Gift of D. D. Home,
p. 345; ( 11 ) F. N. Brodrick in Spiritual Magazine, 1871, pp. 383-84; (12 ) P. P.
Alexander, Spiritualism, a Narrative with a Discussion, 18 7 1; (13 ) Dr. Philip
Davis, La Fin du Monde des Esprits (Paris, 1892), pp. xiii-xiv. Several more
testimonies will be found in the Dialectical Society’s Report on Spiritualism, and
in Home’s Life by his widow.
’"See, regarding this, The Spiritualist for January 1, and January 15, 1873.
I
178 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tions and confine my extracts to what concerns the accor­
dion. While the light was still good:
“ Mr. Home holding the accordion under the table in his right
hand and by the end farthest from the keys, it played a distinct tune,
Mr. Home’s left hand being on the table and his feet so raised as to
be visible. All other hands were on the table.”
After the dark séance began:
“ Presently, Mr. Home’s and Miss Fox’s hands and feet being in
strict custody, we felt the accordion pressing against our knees. We
put our hand under the table, when the instrument appeared to be
moving round till its wooden base was placed between our fingers.
In that position we held it with its keys downwards; it seemed to
be pushed up towards our hand and played a few bars.”
Finally, the commissioner reports in general:
“ Mr. Home seemed to wish to conceal nothing, and gave us every
opportunity consistent with the above conditions for satisfying our
scepticism. Yet we need hardly say that we were unable to satisfy it.
At his request we got under the table with a lamp a great many
times, insisted always on seeing his hands and feet, or on having
them, as well as those of Miss Fox, held firmly. As to the hand with
which Mr. Home held the accordion under the table, all we know
is that on one of our sub-mahogany expeditions with the spirit lamp,
we saw the hand quite still, and we saw the accordion moving up
and down and playing music. . . . We tried our best to detect im­
posture, but could find no trace of it. W e searched Mr. Home and
found nothing upon him but his clothes.” 17
The last occasions known to me in which the accordion
phenomena were exhibited with Home in England occurred
in April and May, 1873. The sittings took place in Miss
Douglas’s house, 81 South Audley Street. Mr. Stainton
Moses, Sir William Crookes and his wife, and Mr. Serjeant
Cox were present. The first named, in some contemporary
” TA<r Times, December 26, 1872, in an article of three and a half columns.
The commissioner who wrote the article was Mr. Broome, afterwards, Sir F.
Napier Broome, Governor of Western Australia and later of Trinidad.
ACCORDION PLAYING OF HOME 179
notes published later by the Society for Psychical Research,
records how:
“ He [Home] took the accordion up in his right hand and held
it under the table. Soon it played. . . . Finally it played ‘Home, sweet
Home,’ very sweetly. At one time Mr. Home’s hand was with­
drawn from under the table, and he allowed it to go where it was
impelled, still holding the accordion. It drew steadily towards the
reading lamp and in full light we saw it playing, expanding and
contracting steadily. Mr. Home held it by the bottom, the keys
being downward. After this it was replaced under the table, still
in Mr. Home’s hand, and Serjeant Cox was told to look under the
table. There he saw the hand — a full-sized man’s hand, apparently
— playing the accordion. About that he is absolutely certain. It was
light enough to be quite visible.” 18
At a similar meeting held on May 7, 1873, “the accordion
(held as before) played a strange weird melody unlike any­
thing earthly I ever heard.” 19
A still later séance at Florence is described in The Medium
and Daybreak (August 7, 1874), where we have first of all
a letter from Cavalière Sebastiano Fenzi, dated Florence,
July 27, 1874, and, as an enclosure, a letter from Mrs. B.
Webster. Cavalière Fenzi pledges himself to its truthfulness
and he himself assisted at the first séance mentioned, which
took place in his own house. Mrs. Webster names the wit­
nesses present, seven in number, all people known in Floren­
tine society and one of them a senator. The phenomena in­
cluded the apparition of many materialized hands which
were felt and grasped, a candle all the while burning on the
table. Two features, however, are of special interest. In the
first case “ the table was tilted up at a very sharp angle, a
pencil laid on the cloth never stirring, nor an accordion and
18Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. IX, p. 307. The hand here spoken of was a
spirit hand, with no arm attached.
''‘Ibid., p. 310.
i8o TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a glass candlestick that stood on the table making the least
movement, which at such an inclination would have been
impossible in ordinary conditions.” Further “the whole table
rose horizontally from the floor to the height of several
inches.” Later on, Mr. Home, we are told,
“ took the accordion in his hand, or rather the harmonicon,20 this
being the only substitute that Mr. Fenzi had been able to procure in
the city. It was a most unwieldy instrument, too heavy almost to hold
in a single hand, and nearly unmanageable, the bellows being so
long that the keys, which were downwards, nearly touched the floor,
Mr. Home holding it by the bellows end upwards, his other hand
resting on the table. Presently the bellows, unwieldy as it was, began
to move, and a few long-drawn notes were sounded. Count Finoc-
chietti was then requested to look under the table and endeavour to
see the spirit hand playing. A t first he only saw the keys playing
apparently untouched, but at last he vaguely distinguished a hand
on the keys. Others looked but failed to see the hand. When it came
to my turn to crouch under the table, after a while I distinctly de­
scried three fingers that looked as if they were transparent and made
of gray gauze pressing down the keys.”
A second seance took place in Home’s apartments in the
Pension Anglaise. Here again there was a company of seven,
including the “Director-General” of the Tuscan prisons, as
well as two prominent Florentine ladies — the Countess
Passerini and the Countess Parrigai. Apart from other phe­
nomena of materialized hands, and moving chairs and tables,
we are told that:
“ The accordion, a more moderate-sized one, brought by one of the
visitors, was held by Mr. Home bottom upwards under the table,
his other hand, like everyone else’s, on the table. The influence be­
ing so strong, I was permitted to crouch under the table, and with
a candle throwing its full light on the instrument, I distinctly saw
a very large masculine hand, looking like very robust flesh and blood
this time (and, by the way, as unlike Mr. Home’s hand, whose
” 111 the newspaper the word is printed “ harmonium,” but it seems more prob-
able that the writer must have written “ harmonicon.”
ACCORDION PLAYING OF HOME 181
fingers are thin, tapering and wan, as anything could possibly be)
playing on, and pressing down the keys. Nota bene that the keyboard
nearly touching the ground, it would have been necessary for any
human hand to so touch the keys, that the person to whom it be­
longed should have been lying or crouching on the floor, or that
the hand should have come through the floor itself.”
Finally, Mrs. Webster gives some account of a third
seance at which she was not present, but the details of which
she heard from those who were. She tells us among other
things that:
“ Count Corbelli, at whose house it took place, having asked for
his wife’s favourite air, the accordion played throughout one of the
airs of ‘Marta’ which was precisely the one asked for. It would
have been as impossible for Mr. Home to have guessed what air this
gentleman’s wife preferred, as to play it with one hand.”
No doubt the writer means to play it with the one hand
which held the accordion.
Finally it would be unreasonable to omit any mention of
the test experiment carried out by Sir William Crookes, the
more so that this seems to have been the only account of
which Mr. Podmore and Dr. Liljencrants thought it worth
while to take notice. Crookes tells us that the room was
lighted by gas, that the accordion used was a new one which
Home had neither handled nor seen before the experiments
began, and that the wire cage, provided to exclude the pos­
sibility of contact from outside, just fitted under the table
at which Home sat. Dr. Huggins, afterwards Sir William
Huggins, F.R.S., was also present with two of Crookes’ as­
sistants. Held by Home with the keys downwards in the
manner so often described, the accordion inside the cage
began to expand and contract and to play several notes in
succession. The hand by which it was held was quite still,
and Home’s other hand lay flat on the surface of the table.
Then a simple air was played. “ But the sequel was still more
1
TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
182
striking, for Mr. Home then removed his hand altogether
from the accordion, taking it (i.e., his hand) quite out of
the cage and placed it in the hand of the person next to him.
The instrument then continued to play, no person touching
it and no hand being near it.” Later on, as Crookes tells us,
“ I and two of the others present saw the accordion distinctly float­
ing about inside the cage with no visible support. This was repeated
a second time after a short interval. Mr. Home presently reinserted
his hand in the cage and again took hold of the accordion. It then
commenced to play, at first, chords and runs, and afterwards a well-
known sweet and plaintive melody, which it executed perfecdy in a
very beautiful manner. Whilst this tune was being played, I grasped
Mr. Home’s arm, below the elbow, and gently slid my hand down
it until I touched the top of the accordion. He was not moving a
muscle. His other hand was on the table visible to all, and his feet
were under the feet of those next to him.”
Here then is a selection of the evidence, extending over
nineteen years. It will be noticed that every sitting which I
have cited took place in a private house, a fact which seems
to me fatal to Father de Heredia’s theory of a confederate
with another accordion, even if we could believe that an ob­
server under the table could be mistaken as to the source of
the sound which he judged to proceed from an instrument
only a foot or two away from his ear. As for the musical-
box suggestion, the nature of the music described in many
of these experiences is utterly inconsistent with the theory
of a mechanical origin, while the silk-thread hypothesis is
preposterous in the case of an apparatus which passed into
other hands round the table and was often visible in a strong
light.
Then, as to the good faith of the witnesses, it is impossible
to suggest any serious doubt. Out of more than fifty inde­
pendent testimonies to this phenomenon which I have read
and for which I am prepared to supply accurate references,
ACCORDION PLAYIN G OF HOME 183
the majority come from well-known men who could have
no interested motive for misrepresenting the facts. Apart
from Count Tolstoy and the distinguished Russian scientist
Butlerov, nearly a score of these witnesses find a place in the
Dictionary of National Biography, and its supplements.
They are, to be precise: Robert Owen, Robert Bell, Dawson
Rogers, Sir William Crookes, Sir William Huggins, Dr.
Garth Wilkinson, Dr. Gully, Robert Chambers, W. Stainton
Moses, S. C. Hall, two Lords Dunraven, Serjeant Cox, Sir
F. N. Broome and the 26th Earl of Crawford. Others, like
Mr. James Hutchinson, for many years chairman of the
Stock Exchange, and Dr. Lockhart Robertson, editor of the
Journal of Mental Science, were not so widely known, but
were deeply respected within their own circle of acquaint­
ances. It is as impossible to believe that these men were
speaking untruthfully as it is to suppose that they were in
each separate case hallucinated. If Home’s manifestations
had taken place in his own rooms, and with his own accor­
dion, and in such darkness as that demanded by the Daven­
port brothers, we should very reasonably suspect some im­
posture, but it seems certain that he always offered every
facility for thorough investigation.
Could anyone suggest a plausible theory as to how the ac­
cordion trick is worked by mechanical means, I should be
only too glad to accept a natural explanation of the marvel,
but meanwhile, one’s trust in the validity of human testi­
mony when founded on the simultaneous evidence of three
senses — sight, hearing, and touch (I refer to the tugging
of the accordion when held) — constrains me to the belief
that in Home’s presence the instrument did play without
any normal human agency. Whether the influence at work
was psychic, or spiritistic, or ectoplasmic, or diabolic, is a
problem which I can make no attempt to solve.
184 t h e c h u r c h a n d s p ir it u a l is m
I must add at the end of this chapter that I feel I have not
half done justice to the strength of the evidence for the phe­
nomena here discussed. To appreciate its full force one must
read for oneself the testimony of witness after witness to
the fact that in a well-lighted room the accordion moved
of its own accord from place to place, that it played, even
when lying at some distance when no one was near it, and
that the beauty and variety of the music performed were
something much beyond what anyone could expect from so
unpromising an instrument. When Mr. Podmore speaks of
“ some simple air” and suggests that it was produced by a
musical box, he can never have read, or at any rate must
have failed to remember, the description given by more than
a score of independent witnesses. No doubt the accordion
often played familiar tunes like “ Home, sweet Home” and
the “ Last Rose of Summer,” but we also hear repeatedly of
a quite different style of music. From the one book which
records Lord Adare’s experiences we obtain such refer­
ences as these: “The accordion then played something like
a voluntary on the organ. The peculiarity being that the last
few notes were drawn out so fine as to be scarcely audible
— the last note dying away so gradually that I could not
tell when it ceased” (p. 55). “The accordion was now played
with great power, like a sort of jubilant hymn. It was pulled
with such force that Mr. Home was obliged to hold it with
both hands” (p. 268). “The harmony could be heard dying
away and then swelling again. The accordion was drawn
out from under the table, Home still holding it, lifted over
his head, and brought round to Miss D. R. It was lifted up
and presented towards her; the same was done to me, and
it was rested on my left shoulder, and while there, close to
my ear it breathed out the softest sounds” (p. 67). “ I ex­
pressed a wish that it might be played without being held
ACCORDION PLAYIN G OF HOME 185
by Mr. Home, upon which he withdrew his hand, placing
it on the table; the instrument was just touching the under
edge of the table, where it remained, as it were suspended.
It began playing very gently. He clapped his hands several
times to show he was not touching it. Later ‘Oft in the stilly
night’ was softly played” (p. 193). “A sort of prelude was
played with tremolo effect. We then had the following mes­
sage, the letters being chiefly indicated by notes on the in­
strument: ‘There is spiritual discord, we pray for harmony.’
The word ‘discord’ was given by a horrid discord being
played; while ‘Harmony’ was expressed by beautiful soft
chords” (p. 267). Mr. Home must have had a wonderful
musical box in his pocket if it would do all these things. On
each of these different occasions a variety of people were
present, and it is to be remembered that when the account
was printed and submitted to each of them, they all testified
to its correctness. The references here indicated are to the
edition of the Dunraven book printed in the Proceedings of
the S.P.R., Vol. XXXV.
Again, when Dr. Gully wrote to confirm the account giv­
en by Robert Bell in the Cornhill Magazine article (i860),
he said:
“ Then the accordion music. I distinctly saw the instrument moving
and heard it playing, when held only at one end, again and again.
I held it myself for a short time, and had good reason to know that
it was vehemently pulled at the other end, and not by Mr. Home’s
toes, as has been wisely surmised, unless that gentleman has legs
three yards long, with toes at the end of them quite as marvelous as
any legion of spirits. For, be it stated, that such music as we heard
was no ordinary strain, it was grand at times, at others pathetic, at
others distant and long drawn, to a degree which no one can imagine
who has not heard it. I have heard Blagrove repeatedly, but it is no
libel upon that master of the instrument to say that he never did
produce such exquisite distant and echo notes as those which de-
•M
.
186 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
lighted our ears. The instrument played, too, at distant parts of the
room, many yards away from Mr. Home and all of us.”
This letter is reprinted in the Spiritual Magazine, Vol. II,
(1861), p. 90.
What perhaps is even more curious, there were definite
occasions when the accordion played very ill and seemed
to be in the hands of some bungling performer. There is one
example of this in the Dunraven book (p. 67), and another
perhaps even more striking in a Dutch account of a seance
with Home at the Hague (Berigt van Manifestatien, 1858,
p. 12 — the anonymous author only styles himself Oogetuige
— “ Eyewitness” ). When the “ harmonica” began to sound,
someone called out that this was surely the performance of
a beginner, whereupon a chorus of spirit raps heartily en­
dorsed the remark. But those present saw the keys moving,
no one touching them, and we are told that there was good
light from lamps in the room. At Edinburgh in 1871, Mr.
P. P. Alexander records that a clumsy rendering of “Auld
Lang Syne” was quickly followed by a perfect repetition of
the piece on the same instrument.
As a rule, however, the tributes paid to the manner of
playing of the accordion were most enthusiastic, and in many
cases the music seems to have been of the nature of an im­
provisation. More than one auditor professes to have been
spellbound by a realistic musical imitation of the tramp of
feet, ending after a pathetic interlude in strains of triumph.
It is described by some, seemingly on the ground of refer­
ences made to it by Home himself, as “the March to
Calvary.”
What lends a certain importance to all this is the fact that
extreme sceptics, who reject all psychical phenomena, are
content to refer to the accordion experiences as a matter too
foolish to call for notice, or else, like Dr. Liljencrants, appeal
s j n
ACCORDION PLAYIN G OF HOME 187
to Mr. Podmore’s discussion of the subject as if the whole
question were settled by the suggestion of a crooked pin, a
black silk thread, and a small musical box in Home’s pocket.
I can only invite the reader to examine for himself what is
said on the subject by Professor Alfred Lehmann in the third
German edition of his Aberglaube und Zauberei (1925), or
by Graf Karl von Klinckowström in Der Physikalische Me­
diumismus, popularly known as the Dreimänner Buch.
These critics brush the whole matter aside with a mere ref­
erence to Podmore and without a pretence of argument.
i
if
1 i
C h a p t e r X
M A T ERIA LIZA TIO N S A N D “ K A T IE K IN G ”
F r o m whatever point of view we regard it, the materializa­
tion of a solid human form must be accounted the most in­
explicable of all spiritualistic phenomenon. A mere phantom,
which amounts to no more than an illusion of the sense of
sight even if it be perceived by many persons simultaneously,
is not so overwhelming. But the appearance of a clothed
figure which cannot only be seen, but felt and clasped and
weighed, which converses in a natural human voice, and
returns intelligent answers to questions, seems to strain a
sober man’s capacity for belief almost to breaking point. It
is, in fact, a kind of creation. And did not our Lord Himself
make appeal to the test of solidity: “ See My hands and feet
that it is I Myself; handle and see; for a spirit hath not
flesh and bones as you see Me to have” (Luke xxiv. 39).
Although we do not hear much of materializations in the
early years of the spiritualistic movement — there is little,
for example, to be found in the works of Capron, Spicer,
Hare, and Judge Edmonds — still this type of phenomenon
seems to have been occasionally presented even from the
beginning. Adin Ballou in his book Spirit Manifestations
(Boston: 1852, p. 8) devotes a special section in his enumera­
tion to “apparitions in some instances of a spirit hand and
arm; in others of the whole human form; and in others of
several deceased persons conversing together, causing dis­
tinct touches to be felt by the mortal living; grasping and
shaking their hands and giving many other sensible demon-
188
“K A TIE K IN G ’S" M ATERIALIZATIONS 189
strations of their existence.” In the accounts preserved of
Home’s early seances in London (1855) there are many ref­
erences to spirit hands and arms clearly seen and also felt,
some of them being the tiny hands of children which from
their size could not possibly have been the flesh and blood
hands of the medium or of any confederate. For full form
manifestations the earliest to attract any considerable amount
of attention were probably those produced under the me-
diumship of Miss Kate Fox in her sittings with Mr. C. F.
Livermore, a New York banker of recognized integrity. Mr.
Livermore was not, as one might suspect, a septuagenarian
in his dotage, but a practical business man under forty, who
had become interested in the subject owing to the death of
his dearly loved wife Estelle. The sittings, which began in
1861, and were continued for four or five years, were rec­
orded in Mr. Livermore’s diary. In one of the early manifes­
tations we learn that, the figure of his wife appearing,
“ I asked her to kiss me if she could; and to my great astonishment
and delight, an arm was placed around my neck, and a real palpable
kiss was imprinted on my lips, through something like fine muslin.
A head was laid upon mine, the hair falling luxuriantly down my
face. The kiss was frequently repeated, and was audible in every
part of the room. . . . The figure at the close stood before the mirror
and was reflected therein.”
At a later stage in this series of sittings the spirit of Dr.
Benjamin Franklin also materialized, “broad-shouldered,
heavy and dressed in black,” and on October 4, 1861, Mr.
Livermore records how among many other manifestations,
“the spirits of my wife and Dr. Franklin came to me in form
at the same time — he slapping me heavily upon the back,
while she gently patted me upon the head and shoulder.”
This simultaneous appearance seems to exclude all possibility
of personation on the part of the medium. On another oc­
casion his wife came “with the arm bare from the shoulder
190 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
with the exception of the gossamer. I found it,” he goes on,
“ as large and as real in weight as a living arm. At first it
felt cold, then grew gradually warmer.” On January 30,
1862, he records that the figure of his wife “kissed me, rested
its arm, while fully visible, upon my head and shoulders,
repeating the same to the medium.” Were these, one is
tempted to ask, real experiences, or were they only the maun-
derings of a man beside himself with grief who had fallen
under the hypnotic spell of an artful little hussy, such as
many will suspect Miss Kate Fox to have been? It is only
fair to say that there was some corroboration, notably that
of Dr. John F. Gray, who, though himself a spiritualist,
seems to have been a respected physician in good practice.
Dr. Gray attests that he was present at some of these manifes­
tations, and so also was a Mr. Groute, who was Livermore’s
brother-in-law.1
Mr. Livermore does not seem to have gone back upon his
conviction of the genuineness of the materialization he had
witnessed, for some years later, on July 26, 1871, we find him
writing in the following terms to the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, who prints the letter in his book, The Debatable
Land:
“ My Esteemed Friend:
“ I cannot refuse your request for particulars of some of these ex-
’I have taken this account of Mr. C. Livermore’s experiences mainly from the
book of Mr. Epes Sargent, Planchette, or the Despair of Science (Boston: 1869),
pp. 55- 79- But Mr. Epes Sargent's summary is borne out in all respects by the
contemporary descriptions of Mr. B. Coleman, an Englishman of good social
position, who wrote from New York after holding many conversations with Mr.
Livermore and Dr. Gray and after receiving many letters from the former, from
which he quotes at length (see The Spiritual Magazine for 1861, pp. 385-400,
and 481-498). Moreover, another full account of the same phenomena is given
by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly the diplomatic representative of the
United States at the court of the King of Naples, in his Debatable Land, pp. 385-
401. Some interesting comments, on the Livermore manifestations will be found
in M. J. Williamson’s book, Modern Diabolism (18 73), PP- 384—
399.
J
“K A TIE KIN G’S" M ATERIALIZATIONS 191
periences which I have read to you from my Journal of 1861-1866.
In giving them, I desire, by way of averting misconception, to make
a few explanations.
“ I commenced these investigations an out-and-out sceptic. They
were undertaken solely with a view to satisfy my own mind, and
with no thought or desire for publicity. After a thorough and care­
ful scrutiny, I found, to my surprise, that the phenomena were real.
After ten years of experience, with ample opportunities for observa­
tion (often with scientific men), I arrive at these conclusions:
“ First, that there exists, in presence of certain sensitives of high
nervous organization, a mysterious force, capable of moving ponder­
able bodies, and which exhibits intelligence: For example, a pencil
vithout contact with human hand, or any visible agency, apparendy
of its own volition, writes intelligendy and answers questions
pertinently.
“ Second, that temporary formations, material in structure and cog­
nizable by the senses, are produced by the same influence, are an­
imated by the same mysterious force, and pass off as incomprehen­
sibly as they came. For example, hands which grasp with living
power; flowers which emit perfume and can be handled; human
forms and parts of forms; recognizable faces; representations of cloth­
ing, and the like.
“Third, that this force, and the resulting phenomena, are developed
in a greater or less degree, according to the physical and mental con­
ditions of the sensitive, and, in a measure, by atmospherical conditions.
“ Fourth, that the intelligence which governs this force is (under
pure conditions) independent of, and external to, the minds of the
sensitive and investigator. For example, questions unknown to either,
sometimes in language unknown to either, are duly answered.
“ The origin of these phenomena is an open question.
“ You may rely on these records as being free from exaggeration in
each and every particular. Very sincerely your friend,
C. F. Livermore.”
This certainly reads like the letter of a sane and sober-
minded investigator; but we know little of Mr. Livermore,
and we must pass on to the experiences of a famous man of
science which, extraordinary as they may seem, are corrob­
orated by a quite remarkable number of other responsible
observers.
192 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
In the paper which the late Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.,
read before the Society for Psychical Research in 1920, as a
tribute to the memory of his friend Sir William Crookes, he
made special reference to the materializations of the soi-
disant, “ Katie King,” which Crookes had investigated in
1874, and vouched for as authentic. The attitude of the writer
himself was an extremely cautious one :
“ One hesitates,” says Sir William Barrett, “ to express any opinion
on these apparently incredible phenomena. They are unique in the
records of psychical research. No such startling demonstration, under
stringent conditions, of what seemed to be a perfectly natural human
form, yet able to appear and disappear, had ever been observed be­
fore. . . . Crookes, we must remember, was one of the most exact
and accomplished investigators the world has known. He was not
suffering during his spiritualistic experiments from any mental fail­
ure, for he was concurrendy conducting other scientific work of great
value, work that has never been impugned. The hallucination theory
Lord Rayleigh and Count Solovovo have discredited.” 2
Still one carries away the impression that the writer is not
satisfied, and I afterwards learned from Sir William Barrett
himself that such was in fact the case. On the other hand,
M. Charles Richet, the famous Professor of Physiology in the
Faculty of Medicine at Paris, despite his pronounced ma­
terialism, has made it clear in his Traité de Métapsychique
that he regards Crookes’s experiences as decisive and that he
accepts his statement of the facts without reserve.3 To writers
of the temper of Messrs. Edward Clodd, Joseph McCabe, I.
L. Tuckett, etc., the whole story, of course, stands self-con­
demned as the very climax of absurdity, calling for no seri­
ous refutation.
But before we can go further, we need to have Sir William
Crookes’s allegations before us. His own account of the phe­
nomena is somewhat too lengthy to reproduce in full, but I
'Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. XXXI, pp. 26-27.
'Richet, Métapsychique (19 22), 630-633; and cf. pp. 588, 595 and 565.
“KA TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 193
may quote Mr. Frank Podmore’s summary, feeling that in
this way no injustice will be done to the contentions of the
sceptical argument. Mr. Podmore is not likely to put the
case too strongly against himself.
Neglecting, then, all preliminary history, we learn that on
December 9, 1873, at one of the séances given by Miss Florrie
Cook, who could not exactly be regarded as a paid medium,4
a figure which came outside the cabinet within which the
medium was believed to lie entranced was seized by one of
the spectators. The form, purporting to be that of one “Katie
King,” struggled in his grasp, and, with the assistance of
other spiritualists present, regained the cabinet. The assailant
affirmed his conviction that the figure was that of the me­
dium herself masquerading as “Katie King,” but there was
no conclusive proof of this, and a controversy followed
which was carried on with considerable acrimony in the
Times and in most of the spiritualistic journals of the period.
Thereupon, as Mr. Podmore proceeds to relate:
“ Mr. Crookes, as one who had tested and satisfied himself of the
genuineness of the materializations exhibited in Miss Cook’s presence,
felt bound to intervene. In his first letter the only proof offered, be­
yond the assertion of his own conviction, of the independent existence
of the spirit form was that on one occasion, in the house of Mr. Lux-
moore, when “ Katie” was standing before him in the room, Mr.
Crookes had distinctly heard, from behind the curtain, the sobbing
and moaning habitually made by Miss Cook during such séances.3
“The evidence, no doubt, left something to be desired, and in two
“As may be ascertained from a letter to the Times for April n , 1874, a Mr.
Charles Blackburn, a Manchester gentleman of some wealth, had “ made a little
arrangement of compensation" with Miss Cook’s family which secured her serv­
ices for certain seances and relieved her of the need of taking fees from strangers.
“This sobbing and moaning of the medium in the cabinet while “ Katie” was
manifesting in the light, is attested by others, notably by Mr. C. Varley, F.R.S.
See The Spiritualist, March 20, 1874, p. 135. On this occasion, a rigorous elec­
trical test was applied, proving, so it was alleged, that the medium never moved
from her place in the dark. — H. T.
i94 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
later letters Mr. Crookes essayed to supply the deficiency. At a seance
at his own house on March 12th, 1874, ‘Katie,’ robed in white, came
to the opening of the curtain and summoned him to the assistance of
her medium. Mr. Crookes followed ‘immediately’6 and found Miss
Cook, clad in her ordinary black velvet dress, lying across the sofa.
But ‘Katie’ had vanished and he did not actually see the two forms
together. Nor did he apparently ever succeed in seeing the faces of
‘Katie’ and Miss Cook simultaneously in his own house. Later, how­
ever, he claims to have seen their forms together, in a good light.
Miss Cook gave a series of sittings in May of this year (1874) at Mr.
Crookes’s house for the purpose of allowing ‘Katie’ to be photo­
graphed. The sittings took place by electric light, and five cameras
were at work simultaneously. Miss Cook would lie down on the
floor behind a curtain with her face muffled in a shawl and ‘Katie,’
when ready, would appear in the full light in front of the curtain.
Mr. Crookes adds: I frequently drew the curtain on one side when
Katie was standing near, and it was a common thing for the seven
or eight of us to see Miss Cook and Katie at the same time under
the full blaze of the electric light.7 We did not on these occasions ac­
tually see the face of the medium, because of the shawl, but we saw
her hands and feet; we saw her move uneasily under the influence of
the intense light, and we heard her moan occasionally. I have one
photograph of the two together, but Katie is seated in front of Miss
Cook’s head.”8
Mr. Podmore goes on to object that even here full proof
is wanting. “Apparently,” he says, “all that Mr. Crookes and
his fellow observers actually saw, besides the figure of ‘Katie,’
was a bundle of clothes on the floor, with a shawl at one
*Mr. Crookes states positively: “ Not more than three seconds elapsed between
my seeing the white-robed Katie standing before me and my raising Miss Cook
on to the sofa from the position into which she had fallen.” Seeing that Katie
wore a white dress and was barefoot and that Miss Cook was dressed in black
velvet with boots, this transformation seems to exceed the capacity of any quick-
change artist, and the audacity of the appeal for help was in any case astounding,
if the manifestations were fraudulent. — H. T.
’This is confirmed by Mr. Dawson Rogers, who was present. See Katie King,
Histoire de ses Apparitions, par " Un Adepte," p. 92. H. T.
“Podmore, Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II, p. 152. The letters of Crookes here
cited will be found in the Spiritualist for 1874, I, pp. 7 1, 157 -158 , 270—
271.
“K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 195
end, a pair of boots at the other, and something like hands
attached to it.” Mr. Podmore’s tone is such as to suggest that
Mr. Crookes was not alive to the possibility that the figure
of the medium lying on the floor might have been a dummy.
The insinuation, if it was so intended, was quite unwar­
ranted. Not only has the critic ignored the statement, which
he himself quotes that “we saw her [the medium] move
uneasily under the influence of the intense light,” but he
has also overlooked a letter of Mr. Crookes addressed at the
time to Mr. H. Cholmondeley Pennell. Nearly two months
before the publication of the description just quoted of the
photographing of “Katie” in Mr. Crookes’s laboratory, Mr.
Pennell communicated to The Spiritualist (April 10, 1874,
p. 179) a letter he had just received from Mr. Crookes to
the following effect:
“ At the time of the occurrence [obviously the second seance de­
scribed in his letter to the Spiritualist, printed on April 3] I felt its
importance too much to neglect any test which I thought would be
likely to add to its completeness. As I held one of Miss Cook’s hands
all the time and knelt by her, held the light close to her face, and
watched her breathing,8 I have abundant reason to know that I was
not deceived by a lay figure or by a bundle of clothes. As regards
the identity of Katie, I have the same positive conviction. Height,
figure, features, complexion, dress and pleasant smile of recognition,
were all the same as I have seen there dozens of times; and as I have
repeatedly stood for many minutes within a few inches of her face,
in a good light, Katie’s appearance is to me as familiar as is that of
Miss Cook herself.”
Now the point upon which I desire to insist is this, that
even were we to suppose that Mr. Crookes was exaggerating
his own alertness on the occasion referred to, the suggestion
had evidently been made by Mr. Pennell or someone else
that he had mistaken a bundle of clothes for the body of the
medium. This possibility had therefore been pressed upon
“Italics mine.
196 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Crookes’s notice at least as early as April 10. But the photo­
graphing of “ Katie” in the laboratory took place in May,10
and it is, to my thinking, inconceivable, after the dummy
suggestion had been thus publicly ventilated, that either Mr.
Crookes and his assistants could have neglected to take pre­
cautions against so obvious a trick, or that Miss Cook herself
could have had the audacity to persist in the imposture de­
spite the imminent danger of detection.11 In any case, Mr.
Podmore’s statement that Crookes and his fellow observers
made no claim to have seen more than the form of the me­
dium is in contradiction with the facts. At Hackney, Mr.
Crookes asserts that he watched the medium’s breathing; in
his own house he declares that the figure “moved uneasily”
in the glare of the electric light.
In the face of his own most explicit statements it certainly
cannot be maintained that Mr. Crookes reached his conclu­
sions hastily. Writing to Mr. Serjeant Cox on April 14, 1874,
he declared that he had had “between thirty and forty
séances with Miss Cook before I felt justified in coming to
a positive opinion.” 12 Without disputing a considerable re­
semblance of feature between Katie King and her medium
he also lays stress upon certain very positive differences. For
example, he writes:
“ Katie’s height varies; in my house I have seen her six inches taller
than Miss Cook. Last night (at Hackney), with bare feet and not
‘tiptoeing,’ she was four and a half inches taller than Miss Cook.
Katie’s neck was bare last night; the skin was perfectly smooth both
to touch and sight, while on Miss Cook’s neck is a large blister, which
’°Mr. Crookes explicitly says that the photographs were taken “ in the week
before Katie took her departure,” when “ she gave séances at my house almost
nightly.” The date of “ Katie’s” last appearance was May 2 1, 1874.
'’The medium (a girl of seventeen) would have been less than human if she
had abstained from reading the many communications devoted to herself in
The Spiritualist, which a rival editor had nicknamed in derision “ Miss Florence
Cook's Journal.”
“K A TIE K IN G ’S" M ATERIALIZATIO NS 197
under similar circumstances is distinctly visible and rough to the
touch. Katie’s ears are unpierced, while Miss Cook habitually wears
earrings. Katie’s complexion is very fair, while that of Miss Cook is
very dark. Katie’s fingers are much longer than Miss Cook’s and her
face is also larger. In manners and ways of expression there are also
many decided differences.” 13
This letter was written on the 30th of March. Almost two
months later, when Mr. Crookes had many times over seen
Katie by the electric light in the course of his photographic
experiments, he remarks:
“ I have the utmost certainty that Miss Cook and Katie are two
separate individuals so far as their bodies are concerned. Several little
marks on Miss Cook’s face are absent on Katie’s. Miss Cook’s hair
is so dark a brown as almost to appear black, Katie’s . . . is a rich
golden auburn. One evening I timed Katie’s pulse. It beat steadily
at 75, whilst Miss Cook’s pulse, a little time after, was going at its
usual rate of 90.” 14
Mr. Crookes is speaking here of the observations made in
his own laboratory, where, with five cameras at work simul­
taneously, he obtained altogether forty-four negatives of
Katie, “some inferior, some indifferent and some excellent.”
He also remarks:
“ One of the most interesting of the pictures is one in which I am
standing by the side of Katie; she has her bare feet upon a particular
part of the floor. Afterwards I dressed Miss Cook like Katie, placed
her and myself in exactly the same position, and we were photo­
graphed by the same cameras, placed exactly as in the other experi­
ment, and illuminated by the same light. When these two pictures
are placed over each other, the two photographs of myself coincide
exactly as regards stature, etc., but Katie is half a head taller than
Miss Cook and looks a big woman in comparison with her. In the
breadth of her face, in many of the pictures, she differs essentially in
size from her medium, and the photographs show several other
points of difference.” 15
"The Spiritualist, April 3, 1874, pp. 157-158 .
uIbid., June 5, 1874, p. 271.
198 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
In the critical examination which Mr. Podmore has made
of such phenomena as those of Home and Miss Cook, it is
unfortunate that he is apt to lay great stress upon occasional
flaws in the main evidence, while ignoring almost com­
pletely the mass of subsidiary testimony which corroborates
the facts in dispute. Sir William Crookes was undoubtedly
the principal witness in the Katie King manifestations, but
he was by no means the only one. The newspaper called
The Spiritualist, for 1873 and 1874, contains many independ­
ent accounts of Miss Cook’s seances contributed by those
who were present. The writers, no doubt, were believers in
the phenomena, but many of them were well-known men
in good position, and there is no reason to doubt their sin­
cerity. The facts which they attest are such as it required no
scientific skill to observe. Any child could have observed
them. Practically speaking, all the witnesses admit and lay
stress upon the great resemblance between Miss Cook and
Katie King, although those who attended many seances also
state that this resemblance varied in degree. It was some­
times much more noticeable that at others. On the other
hand, there is hardly less unanimous testimony to the fact
that Katie King was altogether a bigger woman than the
medium. She was taller, her figure was fuller, her hands
and feet were conspicuously larger and her face was broader.
Nearly all the descriptions to which I refer were printed
some time before Sir William Crookes had his unrivalled
opportunity of comparing the two. As he tells us himself:
“ During the last six months Miss Cook has been a frequent visitor
at my house, remaining sometimes a week at a time. She brings noth­
ing with her but a little hand-bag, not locked. During the day she is
constandy in the presence of Mrs. Crookes, myself or some other
member of my family, and, not sleeping by herself, there is absolutely
no opportunity for any preparation even of a less elaborate character
than would be required for enacting Katie King.” 18
"The Spiritualist, June 5, 1874, p. 270.
" K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIO NS 199
On the other hand, in the photographic experiments, he
and his assistants repeatedly studied Katie’s features “in the
full blaze of the electric light.” When, therefore, Sir William
asserts that “Katie is half a head taller than Miss Cook and
looks a big woman in comparison with her,” it is surely a
very important corroboration to find that many months
earlier other observers, who had good opportunities for com­
paring the two, expressed themselves with equal conviction
in precisely the same sense. Take, for instance, Mr. G. R.
Tapp, who contributes two long letters, one on March 1,
1873, the other on February 6, 1874.” Even if his evidence
be discounted as that of a spiritualist and a friend of the
Cook family, he certainly could not have known what Mr.
Crookes was going to write a year and a half later. Yet his
testimony on both occasions is in complete accord with the
subsequent observations of the famous scientist. Mr. Tapp
declares, in March, 1873, that Katie “seemed to be about five
feet six inches in height or rather more,” whereas the me­
dium was about five feet. He adds: “Her shoulders and waist
were broad and solid looking, in fact ‘Katie’ was rather
stout.”18 In his letter of February, 1874, he repeats the state­
ment that Miss Cook, who “is petite in figure,” was much
shorter and more slightly built than Katie. He notes that
Katie’s hair is “ light brown,” whereas the medium’s is “very
dark brown, almost black.” Another observer who, like Mr.
Tapp, had been present at an immense number of seances
with Miss Cook, many of them being held in his own house,
was Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, the head of a county family and
an active magistrate for Devon. He writes, in March, 1873,
"Printed in The Spiritualist for these respective dates.
iaThere can have been no padding, for it was expressly ascertained on this and
several other occasions that “ Katie’* wore only a single white garment without
a corset or any underclothing.
1 ■
200 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
that “ Katie appeared to me to be quite two, if not three,
inches taller than Miss Cook; her feet and hands were bare
and much larger than Miss Cook’s,” 19 and he mentions in­
cidentally that “Miss Cook’s figure happens to be very
small.” Similarly, W. Oxley in The Spiritualist (November
14, 1873) declares that Katie was three or four inches taller,
her hands bigger, and her hair much lighter. Again, Mr. B.
Coleman, who attended a seance at Mr. Luxmoore’s house
on November 18, 1873, writing in defense of the theory that
the spirit form is the “ double” of the medium, declares that
Katie “ presented the exact features of Miss Cook.” He says,
too, that “her conversation and her knowledge of persons are
the same, and some of the expressions which I heard her
utter were, in emphasis and words, exactly those of Miss
Cook.” 20 None the less, he admits that “her height, as I ob­
served by the measurement on that evening, is a couple of
inches taller,” 21 moreover, he notes that her voice, though
like the medium’s, “ is much lower in tone.” It would be
easy to multiply such testimonies, and I may mention that
after a very careful examination of a long series of letters I
have come across nothing which conflicts with Mr. Crookes’s
statements of much later date. One document of special in­
terest is a description by Dr. George Sexton printed in the
Medium and Daybreak?2 and referring to a seance which
took place at Mr. Luxmoore’s on November 25, 1873.
"The Spiritualist, March 15, 1873, p. 133. He adds “ she stamped her foot on
the ground to show she was not on tiptoe.”
” lt is commonly asserted by spiritualists, even by those who do not accept the
theory of "doubles,” that the materialized form in most cases reproduces the
features of the medium. Assuming that materialization is possible at all, this is
not unnatural. A child usually resembles one or both of its parents.
nThe Spiritual Magazine, December, 1877, p. 557.
“ For December 12, 1873, p. 587. The importance of this particular letter lies
in the fact that it appeared in the Medium, which at this date was very hostile to
The Spiritualist and distinctly adverse to Miss Cook.
“K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIO NS 201
Dr. Sexton, who was a convert from materialism, reports
that: “Katie showed her feet, which were perfectly naked,
and stamped them on the floor to prove that she was not
standing on tiptoe, this latter fact being a very important
one, seeing that she was at least four inches taller than Miss
Cook. Her figure and complexion were also totally unlike
those of the medium.” Similarly, Dr. Gully protests against
the supposition that Katie (who was “three inches taller,”
had “very much larger hands” and showed light hair while
the medium’s was black) could be identical with Miss Cook.23
It is to be noted also that, at Mr. Luxmoore’s house, Miss
Cook in March, 1874, was controlled by an electrical test
which, in the opinion of two such experts as Sir William
Crookes, F.R.S., and Cromwell Varley, F.R.S., rendered it
impossible for the medium to leave her seat in the cabinet
without the fact being immediately betrayed. “Katie,” none
the less, showed herself, and wrote a note in sight of the
observers. In particular Mr. Varley says:
“ Towards the close of the seance the room was darkened and Katie
allowed me to approach her. She then let me grasp her hand; it was
a long one, very cold and clammy. A minute or two afterwards, Katie
told me to go into the dark chamber to detrance Miss Cook. I found
her in a deep trance, huddled together in her easy chair, her head
lying upon her left shoulder, her right hand hanging down. Her hand
was small, warm and dry; and not long, cold and clammy, like
Katie’s.”
nThe Spiritualist, February 20, 1874, p. 95. With regard to the length of the
hands, see also Mr. C. F. Varley, F. R. S., in The Spiritualist, March 20, 1874, p.
134; and concerning the figure generally, cf. Prince Wittgenstein in The Spiritu­
alist, February 13, 1874, p. 83. Prince Wittgenstein, who was one of the aide-
de-camps of the Emperor of Russia, in a longer letter addressed to the Revue
Spirite, grows enthusiastic about Katie's chestnut hair (cheveux châtains) visible
through her veil. He also says: “ One might mistake her seen from a distance for
Miss Cook . . . but Miss Cook, though pretty, is much smaller, and her hands
are not as large as Katie’s.” Katie King, Histoire de ses Apparitions (Paris: 1879),
pp. 51-52 . This was written before any of Mr. Crookes’s letters had appeared in
print.
202 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Mr. Varley and Mr. Crookes also record that while Katie
during the seance was moving her wrists about and opening
and closing her fingers, “ we all distinctly heard Miss Cook
moaning like a person in a troubled dream.”24 In any case
it is difficult to see how in two or three minutes — and the
time-chart seems to show that no greater interval was possi­
ble — a hand that was cold and clammy could be converted
into one that was warm and dry; to say nothing of the al­
leged difference in size.
From all that has been said, two conclusions, I think, may
be drawn without further discussion, first, that the “Katie
King,” who showed her bare arms and feet, walked about,
conversed, sang, stamped her foot, was handled, embraced,
had her pulse felt, and was successfully photographed, on
two occasions in 1873, and some half dozen times by Mr.
Crookes in 1874, was not a mere subjective hallucination of
the mind. She had for the time a real independent existence.
Secondly, that she was certainly not an automaton or any
sort of lay figure. There remain, then, only four possibilities:
first, that Katie was simply the medium herself masquerad­
ing; second, that she was an accomplice; third, that her part
was enacted sometimes by the medium and on other occa­
sions by an accomplice; fourth, that she was, as she pur­
ported to be, a materialized spirit form. I must confess that
of these alternatives it is the last supposition which seems to
me to be the least in conflict with the evidence available.
1. The hypothesis that the whole series of Katie King’s
appearances was a clever piece of masquerade carried out by
Miss Florence Cook, herself, is beset, in my judgment, by
insuperable difficulties. I lay no stress upon the respectability
of the Cook family or upon the youth and seeming inno­
cence of the medium — she is said at the time to have been
uThe Spiritual Magazine, April, 1874, pp. 16 1-16 5 .
“K A TIE K IN G ’S" M ATERIALIZATIO NS 203
only seventeen — in these cases it often happens that malitia
supplet cetatem. But the definite points of difference in
height, complexion, hair, figure, hands, and other details,
observed in strong light by Mr. Crookes, and corroborated
by other witnesses (no one contradicting) who preceded
him in time, cannot be waived aside. It is not as if we were
dependent upon a brief glimpse obtained in a single sitting.
In his first seances with Miss Cook, Sir William himself tells
us that he was unfavourably impressed and inclined to sus­
pect imposture; he only reached conviction after thirty or
forty such experiments.25 Moreover, it is impossible to ignore
the strong evidence afforded by his photographs, though they
have unfortunately never been published. Mr. J. H. Simp­
son, who had prints of twenty-two of them, declares that
they prove that Miss Cook was several inches shorter than
Katie, that her hair was both darker and shorter, her com­
plexion darker and her hands smaller — all this being in
exact agreement with what the early observers recorded.20
Then we have the tests and control which were employed.
In very many of the sittings the medium was secured with
tapes, drawn tight around the waist and round her wrists,
these tapes being both sewn and sealed and the slack end
being secured outside the cabinet. Although any considera­
ble movement under the conditions given would seem to
be impossible, and the seals and tapes were almost invariably
found intact, I do not wish to build too much upon the
security thus afforded against juggler’s tricks. But the search­
ing, which nearly always took place when at Mr. Luxmoore’s
house, was a different matter. The ladies who searched her
” T he Spiritualist, June 19, 1874; but this letter itself was written on April 14.
He had many seances after this.
M
J. H.' Simpson, T wenty-two Photographs of the Katie King Series, a pamphlet
published in 1905. In one pair of these two were successively photographed
against a fixed measuring tape.
204 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
declared that when she came into the cabinet she had noth­
ing white about her. The cabinet was also examined, and
there was nothing white there. Still Katie came forth and
chatted freely for half an hour or an hour together in a good
light, clad to her feet in a full white robe with a head veil
and girdle. This was not gossamer or thin muslin, otherwise
her whole form would have been visible through it and
would have shown in the photographs. The visitors were
sometimes allowed to handle the material. One declared it
to be “ like fine white canvas or bunting,”27 another described
it as “ strong white calico.” 28 Garments of this kind cannot
be packed in a quill, or in the bones of a corset, or in the
hollow heel of a boot.
But perhaps the greatest difficulty of all in the way of
supposing that Miss Cook herself masqueraded as Katie is
the completeness and suddenness of the disappearance of the
latter. To appreciate the strength of this argument one ought
to read patiently through the whole series of descriptions —
to reproduce them, of course, is impossible here. In order to
disappear, Katie would have had to get rid of every trace
of her white garments, to put on her stockings and elastic-
side boots, to attire herself in her former dress, to rearrange
her hair — I say nothing about changing its colour — to re­
place the earrings in her ears, and to adjust the tapes round
her wrists and round her waist without injuring the seals.2
9
The tapes and seals, it is true, were not used in Crookes’s
27T he Spiritualist, 1873, p. 119 .
“ Ibid., p. 453.
“ With regard to the instantaneousness of Katie’s disappearance the evidence of
Mr. B. Coleman (Spir. Mag., 1873, p. 555), of Dr. Sexton (Medium, December
12, 1873), of Mr. W. Oxley (Spiritualist, November 14, 1873), Prince Wittgen­
stein (Spiritualist, February 13, 1874), and Dr. Gully (Spiritualist, February 20,
1874), is most important. The last named says that the interval between the
disappearance of Katie and the finding of Miss Cook in her daily dress is “ less
than one minute, as I have frequently certified by counting.”
“K A TIE K IN G ’S’’ M ATERIALIZATIO NS 205
laboratory. But even without this complication I find it im­
possible to reconcile any hypothesis involving the identity of
the medium and Katie with that scientist’s plain statements;
for example, with the following:
“ For some time past Katie has given me permission to do what I
liked — to touch her, and to enter and to leave the cabinet almost
whenever I pleased. I have frequently [I italicize the word] followed
her into the cabinet, and have sometimes seen her and her medium
together, but most generally I have found nobody but the entranced
medium lying on the floor, Katie and her white robes having in­
stantaneously disappeared.” 30
I have already called attention in a note to the fact that
once, when the medium had slipped off the sofa on which
she had been lying, Katie came out in her white dress to
summon Mr. Crookes. He declares that not more than three
seconds elapsed before he entered his library which served
as a dark cabinet, found the medium in a dangerous posi­
tion, and lifted her entranced and velvet-clad body on to the
sofa again. What is more, he states that the white-robed
Katie did not precede him into the library, but “stepped
aside to allow me to pass.” A little later Katie came out again
and invited him to bring his phosphorus lamp to look at
the medium. Whereupon — “ I closely followed her into the
library, and by the light of my lamp saw Miss Cook lying
on the sofa just as I had left her. I looked round for Katie,
but she had disappeared.” Can anyone conceivably maintain
that the figure lying on the sofa which Mr. Crookes had
lifted there a few minutes before was nothing but a dummy ?
2. We seem, then, forced to the second hypothesis, that
Katie King was not Miss Cook but a confederate who re­
sembled her in feature. A year or two later, in the United
States, during a long series of seances held under the me-
diumship of Mr. and Mrs. Holmes at the instance of Mr. R.
KThe Spiritualist, June 5, 1874, p. 270.
206 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Dale Owen, this kind of imposture undoubtedly did take
place. A sliding panel had been constructed in the side of
the cabinet, and when each séance began, a living girl crept
through the panel into the dark chamber. She personated
“ Katie King” successfully for several months until finally
the trick was discovered. But the fundamental difference
between the two cases was this, that the Holmes’s séances
took place on their own premises, whereas, in the instance
of Miss Cook, many of the best and most successful sittings
were held in Mr. Luxmoore’s house or in Mr. Crookes’s
laboratory. By what conceivable arrangement could a con­
federate penetrate into either establishment just at the mo­
ment she was wanted, evading the careful search made of
the room used as a cabinet? Moreover, even if she had suc­
ceeded in getting in, there remained the still more difficult
problem of getting out again when the lights were turned
up in the cabinet and Mr. Luxmoore or Mr. Crookes came
to look after the medium as she recovered from her trance.
Furthermore, the coincidence that the accomplice closely re­
sembled the medium in feature would be an extraordinary
one, and, finally, it appears to me certain that if Katie King
and Florence Cook had really been two distinct individuals,
Mr. Crookes would readily have been allowed to gratify his
desire of seeing the faces of both together in a good light.31
In the Holmes’s séances the two mediums sat in full view
outside the cabinet, and all present could look upon the sup­
posed spirit form of Katie without ever losing sight of the
mediums. It must also be remembered that the séances at
Mr. Luxmoore’s, and still more at Mr. Crookes’s were very
exclusive. No one was admitted who was not personally
known to the household.
"This he never succeeded in doing in his own house, and only once at
Hackney, using, not gas light, but a phosphorus lamp. Graf von Klinckowstroem
follows Podmore in maintaining that at Hackney Miss Cook had a confederate
who personated “ Katie.”
“K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 207
3. It is plain from Mr. Podmore’s insistence upon the re­
semblance between “Katie” and Miss Cook32 (he had seen
Mr. Crookes’s photographs) that he believed the two to be
one and the same person as long as seances were held in the
laboratory. But it is equally clear that in regard to other
seances held at Miss Cook’s own home in Hackney, notably
on March 29 and on the farewell appearance of May 21, Mr.
Podmore was convinced that the two forms were distinct,
and that either Katie or the medium was personated by a
confederate. I cannot see that this hypothesis helps us much,
except that it gives the sceptic an opportunity of confusing
the issues when pressed on any particular detail. All the
differences which Mr. Crookes noted in his own laboratory
between Katie and Miss Cook still stand good. On March
29 and May 21, at Hackney, if it was the confederate who
personated Katie, then we have to suppose that for some two
hours an entirely new Katie walked about in good gas light
and conversed freely, without Mr. Crookes ever suspecting
that it was quite a different Katie from the one he had seen
and talked to and photographed and scrutinized closely,
more than a score of times, either in his own laboratory or
at Mr. Luxmoore’s. On the other hand, if it was Miss Cook
who again enacted Katie, while the confederate remained
apparently entranced in the cabinet, then we are faced with
a still more serious difficulty, for on both occasions Mr.
Crookes, being in the cabinet with the two together, re­
mained there until lights were brought and the medium re­
covered consciousness.33 This means that, while he actually
” Modern Spiritualism, II, p. 154.
M
See the letters in The Spiritualist, quoted above, or Crookes’s book, Researches
in Spiritualism, pp. 10 4 -112 . The physical obstacles in the way of a sudden dis­
appearance are emphasized in Mr. C. Blackburn’s letter in The Spiritualist, May
8, 1874, p. 225. He describes the cabinet at Hackney.
2 o8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
stood within a yard or two of them, Miss Cook must have
divested herself of her white “ Katie” dress, have put on an­
other dress with boots and stockings, etc., and have lain
down in the place of the confederate, who meanwhile left
the room by some secret means of egress. On May 21, the
medium came out of her trance before Katie vanished, and
Mr. Crookes records:
“For several minutes the two were conversing with each other, till
at last Miss Cook’s tears prevented her speaking. Following Katie’s
instructions, I then came forward to support Miss Cook, who was fall­
ing on the floor, sobbing hysterically. I looked around, but the white-
robed Katie had gone. As soon as Miss Cook was sufficiently calmed,
a light was procured and I led her out of the cabinet.”
I quote this also to show that even in the darkness of the
cabinet there was sufficient light for Mr. Crookes normally
to be able to trace the whereabouts of the white dress. At
any rate, he expected to be able to trace it.
4. There remains, therefore, nothing but what we ma
call the materialization hypothesis, and, as already stated,
this seems to me, on the whole, to present the fewest diffi­
culties. I should have liked to give some detailed account of
the gradual development of Miss Cook’s materialization
phenomena at an earlier period; but it must suffice to quote
a statement made by Dr. Gully, who had known her from
the first.
“ That the power grows with use was curiously illustrated by the
fact that, for some time, only a face was producible, with, occasionally,
arms and hands; with no hair, and sometimes with no back to the
skull at all — merely a mask, with movements, however, of eyes and
mouth. Gradually the whole form appeared — after, perhaps, some
five months of seances — once or twice a week. This, again, became
more and more rapidly formed, and changed, in hair, dress and color
of face, as we desired.” 34
“ Letter of J. M. Gully, M.D., dated July 20, 1874, printed in E. Sargent,
Proof Palpable of Immortality, Boston, 1875, P- 54- Cf. The Spiritual Magazine
November, 1872, p. 516, and The Spiritualist, May 1, 1874, pp. 205-208.
“K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 209
Let me add there were also sundry incidents recorded of
Miss Cook which directly favour the materialization hypo­
thesis. I have not enlarged upon them, partly for brevity’s
sake, partly because they are isolated phenomena which seem
to need further corroborative testimony before they can be
accepted with any confidence. But Mr. G. Tapp declared
that once when, by accident, he violently clutched Katie’s
arm, “her wrist crumpled in my grasp like a piece of paper,
or thin cardboard, my fingers meeting through it.” Similarly,
when Katie was photographed by Mr. Harrison in 1873,
Katie soon after the magnesium flash “requested us to look
at her, when she appeared to have lost all her body. She
seemed to be resting on nothing but her neck.” (See The Spir­
itualist, May 15, 1873, p. 203.) On the same occasion “a mas­
culine right arm, bare to the shoulder,” was thrust out of the
cabinet when Katie was in full view. Again several witnesses
declare that, shortly before her final disappearance, Katie
cut many pieces out of her white robe and distributed them
as souvenirs. Then, before the eyes of all, “she gave it one
flap, and it was instantly as perfect as at first.”35
On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that there
were some suspicious happenings in Miss Cook’s early career,
and that in 1880, when she had become Mrs. Corner, an ex­
posure of fraudulent practises took place from which her
reputation never recovered. Moreover, at an earlier date, i.e.,
in 1873 and 1874, she was rather compromisingly associated
with two very unsatisfactory mediums, Mrs. Bassett and Miss
Showers.36 Still, as has been previously said, this is no con-
,5TA? Spiritualist, May 29, 1874, pp. 258-259. Cf. Mr. Coleman’s important
article, ibid., p. 235.
*See The Spiritualist for April 1, 1873, p. 152, and May 15, 1874, p. 230.
The exposure of Mrs. Bassett is recorded in The Medium for April 11 and April
18, 1873, pp. 174 and 182; that of Miss Showers in The Medium for May 8 and
22, 1874, pp. 294 and 326.
210 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
elusive proof that other phenomena were not genuine. Sir
William Crookes, in particular, never varied in his belief of
the reality of the phenomena he had observed. As late as
1916 he authorized the editor of Light to make it known
that he “adhered to his published statements and had noth­
ing to retract.”
One further piece of evidence regarding Miss Florrie Cook
after her marriage is too remarkable to be passed over in
silence. It is a letter published in The Spiritualist for June
25, 1875, in the following form. The materialized figure
then produced under Mrs. Corner’s mediumship was called
“ Leila.”
Materialization of Spirits in the House of Mr. Crookes
Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook) has favored us with the follow­
ing interesting letter for publication.
20 Mornington Road, London, N.W.
June 20, 1875.
My dear Florrie — Great interest having been expressed as to the
“ Leila” materializations which have taken place through your me­
diumship at our house and elsewhere, I will with pleasure put down
on paper some of the phenomena which have occurred under my own
observation.
As the manifestations professed to be given for Mr. Crookes’s in­
formation, most of the séances have necessarily been held here, but
“Leila” has also appeared at three other houses. For the same reason
my husband was at first almost constandy in the cabinet, and latterly
he was allowed to go in and out as he liked; but it was by no means
necessary for him to be present.
On several occasions we have all seen you and Leila at the same
time. Once Leila and my husband were standing in the room with
us talking, when you suddenly rushed out of the cabinet, pushed past
them and fell insensible on the floor. Leila scolded Mr. Crookes for
allowing you to leave the cabinet and disappeared. On another occa­
sion you walked out in a trance, staggered about the room we were
sitting in and then went back into the cabinet; as you entered the
cabinet you held the curtain on one side and let us see Leila standing
a few feet from us in her usual white robe. Several similar occurrences
have taken place at other times.
"K A TIE KING'S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 2 11
I may add that on almost every occasion I have heard you cough,
sigh, move about, or speak in the cabinet whilst Leila has been out­
side talking to us.
On two occasions Leila, whose feet were always bare, took one of
your shoes off, and asked me to put it on her foot. I knelt down by
her side, and tried my utmost to squeeze her foot into it, but found
it impossible to do so, her foot being so much larger than yours. Leila
has appeared at our house between twenty and thirty times, and tests
of your separate identities were given almost every night. On some
occasions visitors were present but we have had the best seances when
you have been stopping with us as one of our family and no stranger
whatever was present. Believe me, affectionately Yours
Ellen Crookes
Mrs. E. C. Corner
6 Bruce Villas, Eleanor Road, Hackney.
There cannot be a doubt that this letter was written by the
wife of the distinguished Fellow of the Royal Society who
was knighted twenty-two years later, in 1897. The address
from which Mrs. Crookes writes, 20 Mornington Road, is the
house at which the majority of the Katie King materializa­
tions took place in 1873-74. Although the letter was not sent
to the editor of The Spiritualist by Mrs. Crookes herself, the
subsequent issues of that journal contain no repudiation of
its contents or protests against its publication. Neither is it
easy to suppose that Mr. Crookes was unaware of what his
wife had written. We may perhaps wonder that he left it
to her to send the letter instead of bearing testimony to
“ Leila’s” satisfactory test himself; but an explanation is prob­
ably to be found in the fact that the opposition and obloquy
he had encountered had by degrees discouraged him from
wasting more of his valuable time upon such investigations.
We know at any rate, that he wrote to D. D. Home in the
November of 1875: “I am so disgusted with the whole thing
that were it not for the regard we bear to you, I would cut
the whole ‘Spiritual’ connection; and never read, speak, or
think of the subject again.” He had not, however, lost faith
i
212 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
in the phenomena, for writing once more to Home nine
years later, he stated “my belief is the same as ever, but op­
portunities are wanting.”37
With regard to the incidents just recounted, it is plain
that if “ Leila” scolded Mr. Crookes while Florrie had fallen
fainting on the floor outside the cabinet, it cannot on that
occasion have been true that Florrie was masquerading as
Leila. Yet all this happened in the Crookes’s own house,
where surely it would have been impossible for any con­
federate to enact the part even once, let alone a score of
times. I must confess that after reading very carefully the
criticisms of Mr. Frank Podmore (both in his Modern Spir­
itualism and in his Studies in Psychical Research), of Pro­
fessor A. Lehmann (Aberglaube und Zauberei, 3rd. ed.,
1925), of Graf von Klinckowstroem (in Der Physikalische
Mediumismus, 1925), and last but by no means least, of Mr.
Serjeant Cox in T he Spiritualist38 and T he Medium™ I still
regard the theory of imposture on the part of Miss Florence
Cook as the less probable explanation. That the whole busi­
ness is mysterious and inexplicable to us with our present
imperfect knowledge may be readily admitted. There seems,
for example, every reason to believe that the intelligence
which manifested itself in the very banal conversation of
“ Katie King” was none other than the intelligence of the
medium herself.
Speaking of the materializations of another medium, Miss
Showers, who was on some occasions associated with Florrie
Cook, Mr. Serjeant Cox writes:
When Mr. Crookes tried with Miss Showers the ingenious electri­
cal test invented by himself and Mr. Varley, it proved “ Florence”
’"Life and Mission of Home (Ed Doyle), p. 218.
“ May 15, 1874, pp. 229-233; and June 5, pp. 272-274.
” May 8, 1874, pp. 294-5; May 22, pp. 326-7; May 29, p. 342; July io, pp.
435-6.
“KA TIE KING'S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 213
(the materialized figure) to be beyond doubt Miss Showers herself,
precisely as by the accidental inspection of Mrs. Edwards she was seen
to be by all the party at my house. When Mr. Crookes tried her by
asking “Florence” to dip her fingers in some water which had the
(to her) unanticipated effect of staining the fingers, the stain was
found upon the fingers of Miss Showers!40
Even were the fact of the staining of Miss Showers’ fin­
gers absolutely beyond dispute, I do not know that I should
consider the incident quite conclusive. Col. E. A. de Rochas’
Extériorisation de la Sensibilité supplies much matter for re­
flexion in this and similar cases. But while Mr. Crookes him­
self made no comment in The Medium, Sir Charles Isham
wrote a fortnight later: “I hear from Mrs. Showers that Mr.
Crookes told Miss Showers he could not detect any stains on
that lady; neither could Mrs. Showers.”41 As for the electrical
experiment, Mr. Crookes denied in a letter to The Spiritualist
(June 19, 1874) that he had committed himself to any ex­
plicit statement and declared that he had not had sufficient
sittings with Miss Showers to come to a definite conclusion.
What Crookes does state in the course of this communica­
tion seems to me worthy of very special consideration.
Quoting from an earlier letter written to Serjeant Cox he
says:
“ I have had two experimental séances with Miss Showers, and have
obtained certain results, but not enough to enable me to form a defi­
nite opinion. I must have more evidence. I have only had four seances
altogether with her and that is quite an insufficient number. I had
between thirty and forty séances with Miss Cook before I felt justified
in coming to a positive opinion. I notice that with every new medium
one or two séances only leave suspicion on the mind. It was so in the
case of Home, Williams, Hearne, Miss Fox, Miss Cook, and Miss
Showers. In all instances where a great number of séances have been
available, this suspicion has been replaced by belief; so it is not fair
4
0
Medium, July io, 1874, p. 435.
"Ibid., July 31, 1874, p. 483.
214 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
to attach too much importance to the unfavourable impression given
by the first few séances with Miss Showers.”
I have mentioned the name of Miss Showers (a medium
summarily dismissed as fraudulent by Mr. Podmore) be­
cause in some of her materializations a peculiar test of gen­
uineness is alleged to have been given. Perhaps the most
serious difficulty which all must feel in reading Sir William
Crookes’s account of his experiences with “ Katie King” arises
from the very perfection of the manifestations themselves.
On no occasion is there any record that the Katie, who pre­
sented herself thirty or forty times over before the eyes of
Sir William in a good light, was in any way maimed or
physically defective. She never appeared minus her lower
limbs (as her reputed father, John King, is reported to have
appeared at the séances of Mr. Charles Williams) nor with
features imperfectly modelled. None the less, she seems to
have alleged, as a reason for her always showing herself with
bare feet, that she thus economized the material (ecto­
plasm?) which would otherwise have been used up in pro­
viding her with boots and stockings.42 Curiously enough, no
suggestion was ever made — at any rate none is mentioned
— by Sir William Crookes or any of the other observers that
the most conclusive proof which Katie could give of her
spirit origin would have been an imperfect materialization.
If she had occasionally appeared without an eye, with a half-
formed ear, with only one arm, or even preferably with
three, nothing could have demonstrated more satisfactorily
that she was not Miss Cook or identical with any mundane
impersonator of “Katie.” There is, however, some evidence
that in Miss Showers’ mediumship, the materialized form
was not always physically perfect. Mr. Charles Blackburn,
a wealthy spiritualist from Manchester, gives an account of
“ The Spiritualist, March i, 1873, p. 119 .
"K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIO NS 215
a séance at which he was present in the medium’s home at
Teignmouth. This location was so far unsatisfactory inas­
much as it suggests the possibility of confederacy or appara­
tus, but the nature of the phenomena seems to negative any
use of trickery. One of the earrings which the medium wore
was removed and a thread was passed through the hole and
both ends were secured outside the cabinet in a place visible
to all. After Miss Showers had lain down inside the cabinet
and had fallen into a trance, a solid form, “Lenore,” came
out and was examined by those present. Mr. Blackburn
writes :
“ We all felt her ears, she had no boring whatever through her ears,
and the lobes were very thin and far smaller than Miss Shower’s.
She had only one large toe to each foot; the other four toes were os­
sifications, and not toes at all. We all examined her very small feet
with our hands and eyes; nor were we in the slightest mistaken. She
told us her feet would have been perfected had there been more power.
When this figure retired, we all went into the cabinet with faint light
and awoke Miss Showers. She had the thread through her ear just
as when she first lay down on the couch. We cut the thread close to
her ear and traced it direct to the nail, without a knot or piercing in
it. Miss Shower’s feet, I need hardly say, are perfect, and were ex­
amined.” 43
Miss Showers, the daughter of a General Showers, was not
a professional medium; and certainly Mr. Charles Black­
burn, whose name often figures among the psychic investi­
gators of the period, could have no discreditable motive for
giving false testimony. Curiously enough the other personal­
ity, “Florence Maples,” who was also said to materialize
under Miss Shower’s mediumship, showed herself not in­
frequently with some similar physical defects. Mr. Stainton
Moses, himself a medium, but a tutor at University College,
London, and a man universally respected, gives an account of
“ T he Spiritualist, August 2 1, 1874, pp. 87-88.
216 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a séance with Miss Showers at Mrs. Gregory’s house in Green
Street, Grosvenor Square. The description of “Florence’s”
materialized form is too long to quote entire, but one or two
points may be noticed. Mr. Moses speaks of “a cold clammy
claw, rather than hand, which was stiffly jerked from the
side.” At first it was “ unlike human flesh” but “it gradually
acquired vital heat.” Then he continues:
“ Although the hands and arms are naturally formed and the body
correctly shaped, the face never assumed a natural look, and during a
part at least of the evening I believe that feet were wanting. I passed
my foot under the figure which seemed to be off the floor and found
no obstacle. I believe that no feet were there. The face presented
throughout the evening a completely abnormal appearance. The com­
plexion was pasty and like bad wax-work; the lips compressed so as
to give an appearance of pain, and the glassy eyes, with their per­
petual stare, gave the face a most unnatural look. I tried all in my
power to make the eyes blink, but in vain. The whites were unnatur­
ally large, and no eyelids were perceptible. The face was inhuman
throughout the night, though at other times I have seen it look nat­
ural and pretty.”44
The account here given by Stainton Moses supplies rather
an interesting illustration of the danger of drawing infer­
ences from what is not explicitly stated. Almost inevitably
one would conclude from the long description, of which I
have quoted only a paragraph, that this figure, unlike
“ Katie,” did not converse. He tells us that during the whole
evening the form was in immediate contiguity to him. “ I
could touch it,” he says, “at will.” It sat down in a most
peculiar way. “ It simply doubled up, as if someone had
touched a spring which caused it to bend.” Not one word
does the narrator record, as having been spoken by the fig­
ure. But it was certainly not an automaton, for Stainton
Moses goes on to say:
“ I felt the breath from the mouth, and I saw the chest rise and fall
"T he Spiritualist, April 3, 1874, pp. 16 2-163.
KA TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIO NS 217
as breath was drawn. Moreover, as the figure stood touching me, by
my side, I could feel the beating of the heart. There was apparently
a fully organized body.”
Fourteen people were present, including, I believe, Lord
Rayleigh, F.R.S. Not all are named, but among those who
are was the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., who contributed
to the Daily Telegraph certain well-known articles on “Or­
thodox” and “ Unorthodox London.” His career is sketched
in one of the Supplements to the Dictionary of National Bi­
ography. Another of the guests, Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, has
also written some account of the seance. He agrees with the
former narrator regarding the peculiar glazed appearance of
the eyes and also in saying that the figure was some inches
taller than the medium, while resembling her in feature.
But Mr. Noyes tells us how “in answer to Col. Steuart’s en­
quiries,” the materialized figure told them that her parents’
names were Joseph and Margaret Maples of Blackburn
Street, Inverness, and that consumption had carried her off
six years ago, also that “she wished a message to be sent to
her parents relating to her deathbed scene.”45 She must, in
fact, have talked a good deal.
Mr. Stainton Moses states: “ I do not propose to offer any
theory to account for the facts I have recorded. I have none;
and I must see much before I care to frame one.” Though
more than half a century has passed since these words were
written, the same attitude of reserve seems still to impose
itself. The problem is only complicated by the unsatisfactory
phenomena of Marthe Beraud (Eva C.) and others in more
recent times. No sober critic can remain indifferent to the
consideration which has been forcibly urged by Graf von
Klinckowstroem in the Dreimännerbitch, and by others, that
"The Spiritualist, March 27, 1874, p. 15 1; and cf. Col. Steuart's account in
The Medium, April 3, 1874, pp. 2 14 -2 15.
2 l 8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
whereas in the seventies mediums abounded who were al­
leged to produce full-form materializations that spoke and
could be handled, such phenomena are at present practically
unheard of.46 On the other hand, it may be contended with
some plausibility that the tests now imposed of rigorous
searching, medical examination, reclothing, etc., create an
atmosphere of suspicion which inhibits the development of
that form of mediumship. In a passage quoted above, Sir
William Crookes wrote: “ I notice that with every new me­
dium one or two seances only leave suspicion on the mind.”4
7
May not the explanation very probably be that the mediums
who produce such astounding phenomena are exceptionally
sensitive. Even with Home, a sudden cry, a change of place,
or some small excitement, was sufficient to bring the mani­
festation to an abrupt conclusion. In the Proceedings of the
S.P.R. (Vol. IX, p. 310) Mrs. Crookes records how in the
middle of a materialization she gave a frightened scream.
“ The figure immediately seemed to sink into the floor,” and
Mr. Serjeant Cox turned upon her with the words, “Mrs.
Crookes, you have spoilt the finest manifestation we have
ever had.” Several similar examples could be quoted. If,
then, the most remarkable phenomena seem always to be
associated with occasions when all present are friendly and
convinced and no control at all is exercised, there is at least
the possibility of a legitimate explanation. It may be, of
course, that at such times the unscrupulous impostor can
fake his results unimpeded, but it may also be that in these
conditions the medium’s mind being absolutely tranquil, the
spiritual influences which ex hypothesi control him have the
fullest play. Automatists are agreed in declaring that they
get the best results in their automatic script when they are
“ Gulat-Wellenburg, Der physikalische Mediumismus, pp. 94-5 and 147.
"T he Spiritualist, June 19, 1874, p. 296.
"K A TIE K IN G ’S” M ATERIALIZATIONS 219
quietly engaged in conversation about some entirely differ­
ent matter or at any rate are not attending to the script.
I cannot resist the temptation to insert here an experience
of Sir William Barrett, first because I greatly sympathize
with his point of view, when for instance he writes: “All
psychical researchers need to bear in mind that every sensi­
tive or medium is a suggestible subject; if you go expecting
fraud you may possibly create the very fraud you suspect. If
you make preparations beforehand to lay a trap for the me­
dium, it is probable that both medium and experimenter will
fall into the trap.” But, secondly, the manifestations observed
and recorded by such an experienced investigator with a me­
dium of no great repute like Husk are in themselves of great
interest. Sir William tells us:
“ The only case of materialization witnessed by me, which seemed
to be inexplicable by fraud, occurred with the medium, Husk, many
years ago. It may be worth while describing this experiment as it has
never been published.
“ Mr. William de Morgan had kindly lent Myers and myself his
studio in Cheyne Row, an almost bare room, furnished with a small
deal table about three feet by five feet and a few chairs. After dinner
Myers brough Husk to Cheyne Row in a hansom cab and we im­
mediately sat round the table. There were six present including the
medium. William de Morgan and his sister (being sceptics), were
placed in control of the medium, whose feet were tied to the legs of
the table, and his hands were grasped by the sitter on each side. Mrs.
de Morgan (their mother) sat facing Myers, and I sat at the other
end of the table and had control of the light. After the wrists of all
present had been loosely joined together by silk thread, I blew out the
candle and phenomena very soon occurred. The medium went into
a trance; lights, very like fireflies, were seen darting about above our
heads, movement by some objects in the room was heard and a deep
guttural voice spoke to us calling himself ‘John King.’ In reply to our
request he said he would try to show himself. A violent convulsion
of the medium occurred, and suddenly right in front of me appeared
a clothed human figure from the waist upwards — the lower part of
220 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
the body might have been concealed by the table. The face was il­
luminated by a bluish light which seemed to issue from an object held
in the hand of the materialized figure. The face was undoubtedly a
living one for I saw its eyes open and close and its lips move. I asked
who it was and the guttural voice said ‘John King-’ It was a dark-
bearded and rather unpleasant face, quite unlike that of the medium.
I exclaimed ‘Do you all see this figure? I am going to light the candle,’
and immediately risked doing so. The figure vanished the moment
the match was struck, and the medium was found in deep trance,
lying back in his chair and groaning; when the medium had recovered
he was sent home in a cab. On comparing notes each sitter described
the face according to the different aspects it presented from his or
her position at the table. W e found upon experimenting that it was
impossible to reproduce the figure by leaning on the table, nor could
the medium have put on a mask as his hands were held the whole
time and the tying of his legs and wrists was found intact. De Morgan
asked Myers and myself to come the next morning and see if we could
in any way imitate what we had seen. Though de Morgan remained
somewhat sceptical, Myers and I both agreed that it was extremely
difficult to explain the phenomena by trickery on the part of the
medium, who, moreover, was found deeply entranced a few seconds
later.” 48
All those who took part in this experiment were people of
marked intellectual distinction. Sir William Barrett, F.R.S.,
had first been Professor Tyndall’s assistant, and then became
Professor of Physics for thirty-seven years at the Royal Col­
lege of Science, Dublin. F. W. H. Myers had won more
prizes at the University than almost any other man of his
generation. His published poems are as remarkable as his
great psychological work on “ Human Personality,” unfor­
tunately never completed. William de Morgan, the son of
Professor Augustus de Morgan, was a famous artist, potter,
and inventor before he became known in his declining years
as a novelist of the very first rank. His mother was the au-
4
8
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XXXIV (1924), pp.
287-88
“K A TIE KIN G’S’’ M ATERIALIZATIONS 221
thor of a much-esteemed work From Matter to Spirit and
his wife’s artistic gifts were recognised as being on a level
with his own. Professor Barrett and F. W. H. Myers had a
wide practical experience in psychic research and were well
acquainted with the tricks of fraudulent mediums. I should
find it hard to believe that they were imposed upon by a
clever piece of imposture.
Let us confess that the whole subject is infinitely puzzling.
Having Mr. Feilding’s report of the Naples sittings with
Eusapia Palladino before our eyes, not to speak of numerous
other seances held by Eusapia with her Italian fellow coun­
trymen, it is difficult to maintain that a medium who notori­
ously cheats is incapable of producing genuine phenomena.
For this reason the fact that “Dr.” Monck, for example, was
detected in flagrant and seemingly premeditated imposture,
does not conclusively prove that all the materializations as­
cribed to him were equally fakes. The number of exposures
which were recorded at that period make it hard to believe
that any materializing medium was honest or trustworthy;
but, on the other hand, the psychological mystery presented
by the testimony of such a man as Dr. A. Russel Wallace, who
shares with Darwin the repute of having given birth to
our modern evolution theories, is not less embarrassing.
Wallace, in his book of reminiscences entitled My Life,
claims on four separate occasions to have witnessed material­
izations in a form which admitted of no dispute.4
9 One of
these experiences he described in some detail before judge
and jury when giving evidence on oath in the Colley v.
Mas\elyne case (April, 1907). He stated that in full daylight
on a bright sunny afternoon he saw a whitish cloud come out
of Monck’s side which was gradually built up into a draped
wMy Life, II, pp. 330-331.
222 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
female form standing clearly before his eyes, the two being
five feet apart. Dr. Monck clapped his hands and the ma­
terialized figure also clapped hers, though more faintly.
Then the figure drew near Monck again and was slowly
reabsorbed into his body, as it had come out. Neither was
this story devoid of indirect corroboration. The incident oc­
curred at what were then the offices of a London spiritualist
organization in Bloomsbury, for which Dr. Hensleigh
Wedgwood, the learned author of the Etymological Dic­
tionary made himself responsible. Now Russel Wallace as­
sures us on Wedgwood’s authority that in the course of a
long investigation with Monck on these premises “ they had
had far more wonderful results than that just described.”
Anyone who may read the account given of Wedgwood in
the Dictionary of National Biography will learn that he
was throughout his life conscientious in an extraordinary
degree. He resigned a post worth ¿800 a year because it in­
volved the taking of an oath, and he regarded the taking of
oaths as unlawful. But further, Archdeacon Colley, who was
mainly instrumental in the exposure of Eglinton, another
materializing medium, avers that with Monck he had an
experience even more convincing than Dr. Wallace’s, though
it occurred not in the daytime, but in good lamplight. The
Archdeacon and a friend who was with him (the name is
given) were permitted to touch the materialized female
form which had come, as before, out of Monck’s side as a
kind of vapour and had gradually solidified. Dr. Monck,
still entranced, allowed the form to walk a few steps, sup­
ported on either side by the two observers. “Meanwhile,”
says the Archdeacon, “ holding the hand of the spirit arm
that rested on mine, I felt the wrist, palm, fingers and fin­
ger nails; yielding to pressure, having natural weight and
substance and all things pertaining to humanity, but it was
“K A TIE K IN G ’S" M ATERIALIZATIONS 223
damp and stone cold.” The letter containing this statement
was printed in The Medium and Daybreak^ for October 5,
r877 (pp. 625-6), and it purports to have been written on
September 25, 1877, the very night of the occurrence. If this
was an illusion it was an illusion of the most stupendous
kind. Colley was a comparatively young man at the time and
he was not then archdeacon — this title, in fact, was derived
from South Africa — but his friends proclaim that he was
incapable of deceit in such a matter.
Without pretending to reach any positive conclusion re­
garding the problem of alleged full-form materializations,
I leave these statements for the consideration of the reader.
They belong, it seems to me, to a quite different category
to the evidence which attests the accordion phenomena of
D. D. Home. But they serve, at any rate, to illustrate the
uncertainty which besets even the best and most scientific
investigations of the subject. Much curiosity is aroused, end­
less time is wasted, but in the end we are left no wiser than
before.
C h a p t e r XI
T H E T R U TH OF T ELEPA T H Y
I t i s pleasant to pass from the atmosphere of controversy to
a subject regarding which, among Catholics at least, there
exists pretty general agreement. Dr. Liljencrants and Father
de Heredia, while combating strenuously the genuineness
of the more striking physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
make no difficulty in accepting the possibility of the trans­
mission of thought from mind to mind independently of the
recognized channels of sense. Telepathy is a truth which
experimental psychology may now be said to have dem­
onstrated upon reliable evidence. For pure materialists the
recognition of any such faculty has been a very bitter pill.
They have contested every inch of the ground and among
the extreme representatives of the school one can discern as
yet no sign of surrender. But, speaking generally, the tone
even of resolute sceptics has grown less defiant. No such
violent outburst has occurred of late as was caused a few
years ago by the publication of Sir Oliver Lodge’s profession
of faith in his book entitled Raymond. The incident, as a
revelation of one aspect of the scientific temper, was really
curious.
There is a widespread impression that the unamiable
moral disorder which passes by the name of odium theo-
logicum, is a microbe peculiarly characteristic of the clerical
profession. This, it may safely be affirmed, is not the case.
Both the rationalist and the agnostic, though they claim to
speak on behalf of “ Science,” and hold the very name of
dogma in abhorrence, are apt to be just as rabid in defence
224
THE TRUTH OF TELEPATH Y 225
of their negations as the most intolerant of theologians. Wit­
ness the tone of the various critics who in letters to the Press,
in magazine articles, and in more or less bulky volumes fell
tooth and nail upon the author of the book above referred
to and tore him metaphorically limb from limb. No doubt,
controversy is not now conducted with the same grossness
of language which lent pungency to the writings of Dr.
Martin Luther and his contemporaries. Dr. Mercier and Mr.
Clodd did not go quite so far as to describe our psychical
researchers in set terms as swine, liars, blockheads, and devils
incarnate, but they allowed themselves a very considerable
liberty of expression, and, behind all the restraint which
decorum imposed, the fact that they had badly lost their
tempers becomes patent to the most unobservant reader. Is
it unconscious telepathy perchance which led both Dr.
Mercier and Mr. Clodd independently to fancy themselves
in the role of Old Bailey counsel browbeating a shifty
criminal? Surely it must be a long time since Science has
found her cause championed by advocates so deplorably lack­
ing in dignity and good taste. Take the following imaginary
cross-examination, for example, as a specimen of Dr. Mer-
cier’s polemic:
“ I ask you, Sir Oliver Lodge, as a scientific man whether it is pos­
sible to alter the nature of a thing by altering its name? How do you
say? Aye or No? If you mean a ghost, why do you not call it a ghost?
If you mean supernatural and a miracle, why do you not say super­
natural and a miracle? If it is because you are ashamed to use the
familiar words, why are you ashamed to use them? If that is not the
reason, what is the reason? No, Sir, it is of no avail to answer me as
you answered Dr. Tuckett. It will not serve you to call me unfair, to
say . . . that you wish I was better informed, and so on, and so
forth; you will be pleased to answer my questions or to admit that
you cannot answer them. You are silent? You may go down, Sir.” 1
’C. H. Mercier, Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge, p. 119 .
226 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Even more extraordinary perhaps is such a passage as the
following:
“ Such an exhibition of credulity has not been seen since Moses Prim­
rose returned from the market in proud possession of a gross of spec­
tacles with silver rims and shagreen cases. Really when I read his
naive and innocent account of his own simplicity, I wonder if Lady
Lodge ever allows him to go out in the street without a nurse to see
that he does not bring home a gross of sentry boxes, or chimney pots,
or left-hand gloves, or something equally profitable.”2
If Dr. Mercier thinks that he excels in the bluster of cross-
examination, Mr. Clodd apparently ambitions the tragic role
of Cicero against Catiline and perorates upon this note:
“ You, Sir Oliver, knowing as you must have known, the taint which
permeates the early history of Spiritualism, its inception in fraud,
etc., . . . have proved yourself on your own admission, incompetent.
. . . What is more serious your maleficent influence gives impetus
to the recrudescence of superstition which is so deplorable a feature
of these days. . . . The sellers of thousands of mascots — credulity in
which as life-preservers and luck-bringers is genuine — the palmists
and all other professors of the cult, have in you their unacknowledged
patron. Thus you, who have achieved high rank as a physicist, descend
to the plane of the savage animist, surrendering the substance for the
shadow. Surely the mysteries which in your physical researches meet
you at every turn, baffling your skill to penetrate, should make you
pause ere you accept these specious solutions of the momentous prob­
lems which lie on the threshold of the Unknown Hereafter.” 3
Dr. Henry Armstrong, F.R.S., an emeritus professor of
chemistry, who contributes a postscript to Mr. Clodd’s book,
describes Raymond as “obscurantism run riot,” and regrets
that “the fair name of Science should be sullied by the
publication of this ‘nauseating drivel’ as Mr. Clodd properly
terms it.”4 It would be easy to quote a score of similar illus­
trations of the tone adopted by a certain group of rationalists,
2Op. cit., p. 85.
‘ Clodd, The Question: If a man die shall he lit/e again? p. 298.
'Ibid., p. 302.
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATHY IT]
but I forbear. If only one could be sure that all this s<eva
indignatio was prompted by horror of the evils of Spir­
itualism, and that Sir Oliver’s lack of reverence for the “Un­
known Hereafter” was the real gravamen, one might feel
that there was much excuse for the violence displayed. Many
deplorable results have undoubtedly followed from the
promiscuous reading of Raymond by persons wholly unable
to sort and appraise its data, or even to grasp the author’s
own point of view. But I am convinced that the secret of the
frantic denunciations which Sir Oliver Lodge’s attitude
provoked among prominent rationalists was not the pretext
which they themselves put forward. They were up in arms
because they saw clearly enough that the recognition thus
accorded to psychical research was a menace to materialistic
science, the science which finds the final test of truth in the
scalpel, the balance, and the microscope alone. All that lies
beyond and outside is to them the land of miracle, and when
Sir Oliver has the audacity to maintain that demonstrated
truth may exist there, they hold him to be a traitor to the
sacred cause of Science and consequently a person to whom
no quarter should be given, This, if I mistake not, is the real
significance of the violence shown in the controversies which
centred round the publication of Raymond. In any case it is
extremely instructive to note on what lines the battle was
fought. The primary question at issue was not so much the
possibility of communication with the departed, or even
survival after death, but simply the fact of telepathy. The
denial of this forms the first line of defence in which the
Diehards of the Haeckelian tradition, the Ray Lankesters,
the Crichton Brownes, the Donkins, the Clodds, the Arm­
strongs, the Merciers, the Tucketts, et id genus omne, have
resolutely entrenched themselves and are prepared to hold
228 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
out to the last gasp. It has infuriated them that of recent
years the current of educated opinion has steadily set in
favour of telepathy. This is a shrewd blow to the materialistic
concept of the universe, but the movement is undeniable.
In illustration of the change that has come about, let me
quote a casual utterance of Dr. J. H. Skrine which appeared
about the same time in the Hibbert Journal. Even if the state­
ment be thought exaggerated, I am convinced that thirty
years ago it would never have found admittance in such
a milieu.
“ This present age,” wrote Dr. Skrine, “ has brought us such a fresh
discovery. The intercourse between one human consciousness and an­
other by some manner of communication which is not conveyed by
any known action of the senses, such as language or physical signal­
ling, has become an ascertained law of nature. It may be possible to
find men of respected judgment who will not yet admit this, for 1
have myself encountered such denial. But so did eminent intellectuals
in the days of Galileo deny that the earth was round.”5
It is the complaint of Sir Oliver Lodge that what he calls
orthodox Science is so hidebound in its prejudice against the
supranormal that even the discussion of telepathy is banned
in scientific journals. “The beginning of the proof is telep­
athy,” he wrote to the Times in November, 1914, “but the
whole subject is taboo.”6 Sir H. B. Donkin replied that “all
the evidence produced in support of telepathy is valueless,
not only to scientists but also to men of ordinary common
sense.” 7 Similarly, Sir Ray Lankester described telepathy as
“ simply a boldly invented word for a supposed phenomenon
which has never been demonstrated,” 8 and Mr. Clodd spoke
*The Hibbert Journal, October, 19 17 , p. 133.
*The Times, November 28, 1914.
'Ibid., December 1, 19 14 ; and see also the controversy in Bedrock., 1912
and 19 13.
‘ Quoted by Clodd, op. cit., p. 169.
THE TRUTH OF TELEPATHY 229
in the same context of “invoking the unknown to explain
the non-existent,” the non-existent being telepathy.9
The Church, so far as I am aware, has never delivered any
pronouncement, either directly or indirectly, upon the ques­
tion now before us. The philosophy of Aristotle and the
schoolmen, upon which she has set her seal, has not, of
course, felt the need of any such argument to establish the
possibility of the existence of “consciousness apart from the
brain.” 10 The separate existence and the spirituality of the
soul can be demonstrated, we hold, on quite other grounds.
Still just as Catholic psychology, although always with a
certain prudent distrust of morbid and abnormal mental
conditions, has accepted hypnotism as a phenomenon of
psychic experience which does not necessarily suppose the
intervention of any diabolic or evil influence; so it would
seem that when adequate proof is forthcoming, she will see
no intrinsic impossibility in the alleged discovery that mind
can act upon mind independently of the organs of sense.
Pere Lucien Roure, S.J., in his volume Le Merveilleux
Spirite11 seems clearly to incline to an acceptance of the
reality of certain telepathic phenomena, though on the other
hand, no one could be more convinced than he of the frau­
dulent character of the vast bulk of the spiritistic manifesta­
tions obtained through the intervention of the ordinary paid
mediums.
Probably no extrinsic testimony to the truth of telepathy
will have higher weight with the discerning reader than the
attitude of the late Mr. Frank Podmore, who devoted the
greater part of his life to these researches and who was
'Ibid., p. 168.
'“This phrase, borrowed from Sir Oliver Lodge, is used by Sir Ray Lankester
in the title of one of his articles in Bedrock., January, 19 13, p. 488.
uLe Merveilleux Spirite (19 17 ), pp. 283 and 288.
230 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
applauded even by such rationalists as Mr. Clodd and Dr.
Tuckett as one of the keenest and most sceptical of critics.12
Now, Mr. Podmore, in 1894, published a bulky work under
the title Apparitions and Thought Transference — an exam­
ination of the evidence for Telepathy, in the forefront of
which he announces that “ the thesis which the following
pages are designed to illustrate and support is briefly: that
communication is possible between mind and mind other­
wise than through the known channels of the senses” (the
italics are Mr. Podmore’s). Towards the close of his life a new
edition was called for, in the preface to which he writes:
“ In the first instance I felt considerable reluctance to approach the
task of preparing a new edition of the present work. The compara­
tive lack of recent evidence of the strongest kind, and an increasing
scepticism as to the value of human testimony fostered by prolonged
study of the history of Spiritualism, produced distrust of my own
earlier judgment; and I feared lest, when I came to weigh the evidence
again, I might find myself compelled either to withdraw the book or
to reissue it as an old brief, prefaced with an apology from counsel
for having in the interval gone over to the other side.
“I am glad to be able to say that my fears were exaggerated, and that
I find little to revise in my original estimate of the strength and weak­
ness of the evidence.” 18
Now such a pronouncement, however much enforced by
the intensely sceptical spirit of the writer and by his long-
continued study of the evidence, could not count for much
if anything like a consensus of opinion among modern
psychologists were ranged on the other side. But this is far
from being the case. Men like the late Professor William
James, of Harvard, the Italians Morselli and Lombroso, Pro­
fessors Flournoy and Pierre Janet, of Paris, Dr. Richet, and
’’See, for example, Tuckett, The Evidence for the Supernatural, pp. 33,
307, 359-
” F. Podmore, Apparitions and Thought Transference — an examination of the
evidence for Telepathy (19 15 ), Preface.
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATHY 231
many more that might be quoted, are all in agreement as
to the fact of telepathy, however much they may vary in
their explanations. Some years ago it was my privilege to
be present when Professor Henri Bergson delivered his in­
augural address as President of the Society for Psychical
Research. His theme was Telepathy, and I propose later on
to quote one or two brief passages from his discourse, but
for the moment I am only concerned with the fact that his
conviction of the reality of thought transference indepen­
dently of the senses was expressed unhesitatingly. Moreover,
Mr. Arthur J. Balfour, formerly Prime Minister and later
created Earl Balfour, who acted as chairman, showed in
his concluding remarks that he was in full agreement with
the general drift of what had been said. Now, it would be
ridiculous to treat such men as Mr. Balfour and Professor
Bergson as if they were likely to be carried off their feet
by the first speculative novelty which presented itself. If they
admitted the fact of telepathy, it was because they had stu­
died the evidence and had been convinced by it. Neither
can any sane critic, familiar with the note of bluster and
intolerance almost always perceptible in the rationalistic pro­
nouncements of Sir Ray Lankester, Mr. Clodd, and Dr.
Mercier, feel any doubt as to which side was the more likely
to study the data patiently, and to weigh with an un­
prejudiced mind the conclusions to be deduced from them.
It is unnecessary to attempt to give any detailed indica­
tion of the very varied types of phenomena which point
with more or less preciseness to the reality of thought trans­
ference by means other than the ordinary channels of sense.
The strength of the case for telepathy by no means rests upon
such experiments as those which Sir Oliver Lodge carried
out at Liverpool in 1883 or at Portschach am See in 1892,
experiments which Dr. Mercier in particular fastened upon
232 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
and sought to overwhelm with ridicule. Still less is any
reliable conclusion to be drawn from the feats of public
entertainers like the Zancigs. In all such cases we have no
satisfactory guarantee against collusion and the use of some
ingenious code of signalling. But it is important to notice
not only that we have many instances of thought trans­
ference where, regard being had to the well-known character
of the parties concerned, the use of conscious deception is un­
thinkable,14 but also that there are a great number of quite
different lines of argument arising out of apparitions at the
point of death, hypnotic phenomena — especially hypnotiza-
tion at a distance — cases of so-called multiplex personality,
automatic writing, crystal visions, dreams, etc., which all
seem to point in the same direction.15 By way of illustration
I will content myself for the present with appealing to some
very remarkable results obtained personally by Dr. Gilbert
Murray, since 1908 Regius Professor of Greek at Oxford, in
co-operation with his daughter, Mrs. Arnold Toynbee. These
results were made public by him in his presidential address
to the Society for Psychical Research, }uly, 1915, and have
since been printed with evidential records in the 29th volume
of the Proceedings of the Society, while further experiments
are recorded in Vol. X X X IV of the same collection. The
account of the procedure given by Professor Murray him­
self in his humorous and convincing speech runs thus:
“The method followed is this: I go out of the room and of course
out of earshot. Someone in the room, generally my eldest daughter
(Mrs. Toynbee), thinks of a scene or an accident or anything she likes,
“ I refer especially to the experiments carried on between Miss Miles and Miss
Ramsden recorded in Vol. XXI of the Proceedings of S.P.R., as well as to others
more recent. Sec, c.g., Vol. XXVII of the same collection.
I5A fuller discussion of the evidence will be found in Podmore’s Apparitions and
Thought Transference, 2nd ed. (19 15 ), and in N. W. Thomas’s volume of
Thought Transference (1905).
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATHY 233
and says it aloud. It is written down and I am called. I come in, usual­
ly take my daughter’s hand, and then if I have luck, describe in detail
what she has thought of. The least disturbance of our customary meth­
od, change of time or place, presence of strangers, controversy and es­
pecially noise, is apt to make things go wrong. I become myself some­
what over-sensitive and irritable, though not, I believe, to a notice­
able degree.” 16
Here is a remarkable example of one such successful
experiment:
“ A rather instructive case, and one in which I do think I was rath­
er clever, referred to a scene in a book I had not read. I give it more
at length:
"Subject set. A scene in a story by Strindberg. A man and woman
in a lighthouse, the man lying fallen on the floor, and the woman
bending over him, looking at him and hoping he is dead.
"M y guess. A horrid atmosphere, full of hatred and discomfort. A
book not real life. A book I have not read. Not Russian, not Italian
but foreign. I cannot get it. . . . There is a round tower, a man and
woman in a round tower; but it is not Maeterlinck. Not like him. I
should guess it was Strindberg. The woman is bending over the man
and hating him, hoping he is dead.” 17
No doubt this represents the high-water mark, but the
number of really remarkable successes seems to have been
considerable. Four or five people were often present, but, as
Professor Murray notes, strange surroundings, noise, or a
contentious atmosphere notably interfered with the results
obtained. When, as far back as 1883, Sir James Crichton
Browne was invited by Mr. F. W. Myers to attend an exhibi­
tion of thought-reading, the performance broke down, and
Mr. Myers, it seems, declared with some vexation, “ It must
be allowed that this demonstration has been a total failure,
and I attribute that to the offensive incredulity of Dr. Crich­
ton Browne.” Dr. Mercier, who tells the story, loudly com­
mends Dr. Crichton Browne for imposing his own tests,
’’Prof. Gilbert Murray in S.P.R. Proceedings, XXIX, 58.
” S.P.R. Proceedings, XXIX, 60.
234 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
and records with gusto what he considers to have been the
sceptic’s very effective retort: “ I hope,” said Sir James, “I
shall always show offensive incredulity when I find myself
in the presence of patent imposture.” 18 It would seem, how­
ever, that Professor Gilbert Murray would have been likely
to fail egregiously under precisely similar circumstances,
and unless “patent imposture” be also laid at the door of
Professor Murray, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Mrs. Arnold Toynbee,
Lord Balfour with his sister Mrs. Sidgwick, not to speak of
other ladies and gentlemen associated in the experiments,
the breakdown of the thought-reader — and I should be
inclined to say the same even a fortiori of mediums — under
tense and agitating conditions is nothing to be surprised
at. That Professor Murray should occasionally fail is thus
only to be expected; the wonder is that he should ever
succeed. Everything points to the fact that the concentration
of mind entailed by such experiments must always be some­
thing of an effort. Professor Murray says: “ I find the whole
business rather unpleasant. It does not make me ill or exhaust
me in any noticeable way, but I rather dislike it and would
sooner do something else.” No apology will be needed for
giving one or two further illustrations to show that the
example already quoted, though striking, was not unique.
Professor Murray says:
“ Another Strindberg case, also from a book I had not read, raises
a rather interesting point. The subject set was an old, cross, poor, dis­
appointed schoolmaster eating crabs for lunch at a restaurant, and in­
sisting on having female crabs. I got the atmosphere, the man, the
lunch in the restaurant on crabs, and thought I had finished, when
my daughter said, ‘What kind of crabs?’ I felt rather impatient and
said: ‘Oh, Lord, I don’t know: Female crabs.’ That is, the response to
the question came automatically with no preparation, while I thought
I could not give it. I may add that I had never before heard of there
“ Merrier, op. cit., p. 7.
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATHY 235
being any inequality between the sexes among crabs regarded as
food.” 19
Can such astonishing response of percipient to agent be
explained in any other way than by telepathy? The hypo­
thesis of collusion in a man so eminent as Prof. Murray,
conspicuous among his contemporaries for his outspoken­
ness and independence of judgment, must be excluded at
once. Of course in most of these experiments there seems
to have been physical contact between himself and his
daughter, and it is just conceivable that, as suggested in
certain analogous cases by Mr. N. W. Thomas, if the hand
of an automatist can write at the dictation of the subliminal
self without the writer being conscious of the fact, Mrs.
Toynbee’s hand may without her knowledge have been
animated by slight muscular movements which her father
equally without reflex consciousness had learned to interpret
as words and ideas. Still this seems a very extreme supposi­
tion and there were apparently cases, though less generally
successful, in which there was no contact. Again, the possi­
bility of hyperesthesia, i.e., an abnormally developed but un­
conscious sense of hearing has been thought of as a solution.
What favours this theory is the fact that all the experiments
in which the subject was not decided upon and spoken
orally, but merely written down and shown in silence to
the sitters, turned out to be failures. But as against this, Prof.
Murray’s description often included details which though
true and present to the agent’s mind had never been spoken
aloud. Here is an extract or two from the contemporary
record:
“ May 18, 1913 (Mrs. Toynbee, agent). Subejct: ‘Belgian Baron
getting out of train at Savanarilla with us, and walking across the
sandy track, and seeing the new train come in.’
” Proceedings, XXIX, 61.
236 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
"Prof. Murray, response. ‘Man getting out of a train and looking
for something. I don’t know whether he is looking for another train
to come in. I think it is a dry, hot sort of place. I get him with a faint
impression of waxed moustaches — a sort of foreign person, but I
can’t get more.’
“ The ‘Belgian Baron,’ never seen by Mr. Murray, had a waxed
moustache, ‘not mentioned’ by Mrs. Toynbee, as is noted in the con­
temporary report.”20
One or two examples of later date may be added to these,
for instance this, which occurred on December 26, 1921.
“ Miss Agnes Murray (agent): ‘I think of John Bright going to
speak in Birmingham on free trade — so frightened he fell off his
chair.’
“ Professor Murray. ‘This is somebody all of a tremble — It’s some­
body with a sort of stage fright, who is going to make a big speech
— I think he falls down — Does he fall off his chair? Oh, I’m merely
guessing — but I should think it’s John Bright — oh, well — the rest
I can guess. I suppose he was making a speech on free trade at Bir­
mingham.’ ”
Here is another experiment, not completely successful,
which was tried on December 6, 1924.
Subject (chosen by Lord Balfour):21 “I’m thinking of Robert Wal­
pole talking Latin to George I.”
Professor Murray (speaking as he enters the room). “ Something
eighteenth century” (here Lord Balfour nodded assent), “ I don’t
think I shall quite get it exactly. Doctor Johnson meeting George III
in the King’s Library; but I’m sure he’s talking Latin to him — which
he didn’t do. I don’t think I shall get it. Wait. I’ve nearly got it.
Eighteenth century. Somebody talking Latin to a king.”
One might go on quoting such examples indefinitely, but
two further specimens will suffice. They occurred in 1916.
Subject (Mrs. Arnold Toynbee, agent): “ I think of a scene in ‘The
Birth of a Nation,’ where a girl is running away from a negro, jump­
ing over a rock.”
XS.P.R. Proceedings, XXIX, p. 81.
11This is the statesman and former Prime Minister. Lord Balfour was a member
of the S.P.R. from the beginning.
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATH Y 237
Prof. Murray. “ This is a thing you have never done before. It is a
cinema. The girl running away from somebody and jumping over a
rock. Oh, it’s America. It’s a negro chasing a white girl. It must be
‘The Birth of a Nation.’ ”
Again:
Subject (Miss Agnes Murray, agent): “ Mr. Gladstone visiting
Lloyd George at 10 Downing Street, and trying to point out to him
the indiscretion of his Paris speech.”
Prof. Murray. “ It is a dignified person severely reproving somebody
— giving them an awful dressing down. I should think it was Mr.
Gladstone: it’s something political. Can’t think whom Mr. Gladstone
would be likely to rebuke. Oh, he’s rebuking Lloyd George.”
In a careful study of the complete record of these experi­
ments Mrs. H. Sidgwick arrived at the estimate that about
36 per cent of Professor Murray’s attempts were successful,
about 40 per cent complete failures and the remaining 24
per cent partial successes. It must, however, be obvious from
these figures, that the successes enormously exceed any
results which could be accounted for by mere coincidence.
It is very natural that such a delicate faculty as Prof. Murray
possesses may easily be hampered by conditions of health,
weather, fatigue, etc., which cannot always be rightly under­
stood. But that the faculty exists is proved to demonstration.
Shortly after the English Society for Psychical Research
was founded in 1882 a good deal of experimental work was
done with a view to determine the possibilities of thought
transference between two people at a distance. The most
usual method of experiment was for the agent, having some
rudely drawn outline before him, or a playing card, or some
concrete object, to endeavour to transmit a mental picture
of this to his friend who was warned to be ready to receive
the impression at a specified hour. Although not entirely
satisfactory the successes and partial successes obtained in this
way have all along seemed to exceed the estimate arrived at
by a calculation of the probabilities of mere chance
A
l
238 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
coincidence. Among the most conclusive and interesting of
these trials ought to be mentioned those recorded by Mr.
Upton Sinclair in his book entitled Menial Radio (1930).
The percipient in this case was his wife, the agents being
himself and other family friends. It would not be possible
without the aid of a long series of illustrations to do justice
to the results obtained, in which the partial successes are
often not less convincing than the cases in which the object
drawn is accurately reproduced. As an example of the kind
of evidence presented I may take the case to which the
author refers at the outset of his volume. He tells us that his
brother-in-law at eleven-thirty in the morning of July 13,
1928, sat gazing at an object he had drawn, concentrating
his entire attention upon it for a period of fifteen to twenty
minutes, according to previous agreement. The drawing was
simply a table fork, and a facsimile of the sketch, dated and
signed, is furnished in the volume. Then Mr. Sinclair
continues:
“ At the same agreed hour, eleven-thirty in the morning of July 13,
1928, my wife was lying on the couch in her study, in our home in
Long Beach, forty miles away by the road. She was in semi-darkness,
with her eyes closed; employing a system of mental concentration
which she had been practising off and on for several years, and men­
tally suggesting to her sub-conscious mind to bring her whatever was
in the mind of her brother-in-law. Having become satisfied that the
image which came to her mind was the correct one — because it per­
sisted and came back again and again — she sat up and took pencil
and paper and wrote the date and six words as follows: ‘July r3>
1928. See a table fork. Nothing else.’ ”
This also is produced in facsimile. That the experiences
registered in Mr. Sinclair’s volume are serious and of very
considerable value may be inferred from the fact that Dr.
William McDougall, Professor of Psychology and a former
President of the Society for Psychical Research, has contrib­
uted an introduction to it. The author tells us that of the
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATHY 239
290 drawings experimented with, the total of successes was
65, which is roughly 23 per cent. The total of partial suc­
cesses was 155, which is 53 per cent. The total of failures
was 70, which is 24 per cent. No one who examines the ex­
tremely varied and often rather complicated subjects drawn,
can fail to admit that mere guess or coincidence must count
for practically nothing in such an investigation. Dr. Walter
Franklin Prince in “ Bulletin xvi” of the Boston Society for
Psychical Research has since made a careful study of the
Sinclair data and endorses Professor McDougall’s favourable
verdict.22
Similar experiments with encouraging results have been
undertaken over vastly longer distances. In the transactions
of the International Congress for Psychical Research held
at Athens in 1930, Dr. K. Konstantinides read a report
concerning the attempts made by a group in Athens to
impress telepathically other groups in Paris, Warsaw, and
Vienna. That some notable successes were obtained is shown
by the pictures reproduced, but the data supplied are not
sufficient to enable one to form a judgment as to their rela­
tive frequency.23
To come back, then, to the more general question of the
possibility of thought transference independently of sense
perceptions, there is nothing to urge against the existence of
some rudimentary telepathic faculty except the fact that it
has not hitherto been recognised as one of man’s natural
endowments. But this lack of recognition is for many reasons
explicable, just as the non-recognition, or at best the im­
perfect recognition, for long ages of the force of electricity
is quite explicable. If telepathy is, so to speak, found in a
”1 may take this opportunity of thanking Dr. Walter F. Prince for sending me
a copy of his brilliant and most painstaking essay.
" T clepatische Experimcnte zwischen Athen, Paris, Warschau und Wien,
pp. 251-259.
24o TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
free state in nature, it is found only in a very low intensity,
save in extremely exceptional cases. Still, if Mr. Andrew
Lang is to be believed, there is some considerable recognition
of it among savage races, while in more cultured circles the
opinion is very prevalent that many people, by concentrat­
ing their thought upon a person at a distance, can induce
him to look round, and vice versa that others, when they
are being looked at intently by any Peeping Tom in ambush,
have an assured knowledge of the fact, this being especially
the case when some sexual element enters into the problem.
I remember in particular being told this by a man of very
sober judgment who had lived much in equatorial Africa,
where in the case of the natives of both sexes clothing was
dispensed with. The woman, he declared, who met the
regard of all honest men unabashed, always knew what
manner of evil glances were being directed at her, however
stealthily this might be done.
Probably examples of telepathy are of much more frequent
occurrence than is commonly supposed, especially in the case
of individuals who under certain conditions of which we
as yet understand nothing are peculiarly sensitive to this
influence. Let me quote one slight illustration of the kind
which depend entirely for their evidential value upon a
knowledge of the character of the witness concerned.
Some twenty years ago I accidentally made the acquaint­
ance of a young lady whom I may call “ Nellie Rogers.” She
was in need of some little help and counsel and I introduced
her to a friend of mine, Miss X., who for a week or ten
days showed her much kindness. Her difficulties being ar­
ranged, Nellie Rogers left England for ten years or more,
living for part of the time in the Far East. I had almost
forgotten her existence when one fine day she turned up in
London and came to call on me. An hour or two later I
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATH Y 241
chanced to meet Miss X., as happened almost daily, and in
course of conversation I remarked: “Who do you think
came to see me today?” never expecting any reply. To my
intense surprise she answered instantly “Nellie Rogers.” For
a moment I was quite taken aback, but then I said: “Oh, you
must have seen her or heard about her somewhere.” “No,”
she replied, “ I don’t suppose that she has been once in my
thoughts in the last half-dozen years, but when you spoke,
the name ‘Nellie Rogers’ suddenly popped into my head.”
I can only say that of my friend’s sincerity I am absolutely
assured. No doubt this might easily be accounted a mere
coincidence, and one would reckon it such, were it not that
I have had many other proofs at different times of Miss X.’s
curious intuitions.
Or to take another entirely different illustration, some of
my readers may possibly recall the name of a London priest
to whose confessional some few years since many people
repaired because, as they declared, he always knew what
they had to say before they said it. I myself have met more
than one of his casual penitents who were deeply impressed
by his inexplicable knowledge of secrets which they believed
to be hidden from all the world. No doubt this power was
considered by many to be evidence of extraordinary holiness,
but, good and earnest priest as he was, the gift appeared to
many of his most intimate friends to be of a natural rather
than supernatural origin.
And here it seems wor^i while to call attention to the
remarkable statement made by Professor Henri Bergson in
his “ Presidential Address” of 1913, in which he declared
among other things that he had the same kind of certainty
regarding the fact of telepathy which he had of the destruc­
tion of the Spanish Armada.
“ The more we become accustomed,” he said, “to this idea of a
242 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
consciousness which overflows the organism, the more natural and
probable we find the hypothesis that the soul survives the body. Were,
indeed, the mental moulded exactly on the cerebral, were there noth­
ing more in human consciousness than what could be read in a human
brain, we might have to admit that consciousness must share the fate
of the body and die with it. But if the facts, studied without any pre­
possessions, lead us on the contrary to regard the mental life as much
more vast than the cerebral life, survival becomes so probable that the
burden of proof comes to lie on him who denies it rather than on him
who affirms it; for, as I have said elsewhere, ‘the one and only reason
we can have for believing in an extinction of consciousness after death
is that we see the body become disorganized; and this reason has no
longer any value, if the independence, however partial, of conscious­
ness in regard to the body is also a fact of experience.’ ”24
It is the more or less clear-sighted recognition of the valid­
ity of this kind of argument which supplies an explanation
of the hostile attitude of “ Science,” i.e., of rationalism, to­
wards the phenomena of telepathy. As M. Bergson says
again; it is the function of science to measure, and its
tendency is to ignore all those aspects of life which are
not capable of being measured. On the other hand, “it is of
the essence of mental things that they do not lend them­
selves to measurement.” Telepathy runs counter to the
favourite scientific hypothesis that there is a strict parallel­
ism between the cerebral and the mental, and consequently
science will have none of it. To develop the point further
is here unnecessary, but it would be, I venture to urge, a fatal
mistake, if the spiritualistic extravagances of some prominent
psychical researchers led us to ignore the much more solid
fact of telepathy, and blinded us to the excellent arguments
against current materialism which may be deduced from its
recognition.
No doubt it might be urged with some show of reason that
“ Bergson, “ Presidential Address,” authorized English translation, in Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. XXVII, p. 17 1.
TH E TRUTH OF TELEPATH Y 243
telepathy has nothing to do with Spiritualism and that any
discussion of the subject is out of place in this book. Still it
will be admitted that the action of mind on mind in this
world is likely to be closely akin to that action of discarnate
spirits from beyond the veil which is the main postulate of
Spiritualism. Moreover, telepathy is constantly invoked to
explain, at least in part, the communications alleged to be
received by entranced mediums and other psychics. But what
I am most anxious to impress upon my readers is the fact
that the time is not yet ripe for conclusions in this obscure
subject. We have to collect data before we can pronounce.
Hence it seems desirable to lay stress upon the general rec­
ognition in our day of a natural faculty, the very idea of
which, less than a century ago, would have been scouted by
psychologists, as a delusion, if not an absurdity.
Chapter X II
C L A IR V O Y A N C E
It is not easy to draw a hard-and-fast line between telepathy
and clairvoyance; but in the form er it is convenient to rec­
ognize a m ore or less conscious effort on the part of both
agent and percipient, w hereas in the latter the effort is uni­
lateral or m ay be altogether absent. T h e clairvoyant sees
things w ithout necessarily m eaning to see them . T h e veils
o f sense are to a large extent w ithdraw n . H is gaze penetrates
beneath the surface o f m aterial objects, travels even to local­
ities far rem ote, in w hich he seems to enjoy the fu ll freedom
o f bodily vision, and is at the sam e tim e sensitive to the pres­
ence o f spiritual agencies, reading also the feelings and
thoughts o f the fello w beings w h om he encounters in these
m ental flights. It is not, o f course, every believer in telepathy
w h o is prepared to believe in clairvoyance, but, as I have just
rem arked, the one facu lty shades into the other, and if a
m an is sensitive to the m ental radiations o f those w h o are
not im m ediately and locally present, there is no very obvious
reason w h y w e should lim it his pow ers to the discernm ent
o f w h at other people m ay intend to com m unicate or to the
bare perception o f the ou tw ard physical envelope w h ich or­
d in arily affects our senses.
In the section o f the Rituale Romanum w h ich is entitled
Dc Exorcizandis Obsessis a Deemonto, the priest is cautioned
against a too ready disposition to believe that those w h o be­
have extravagan tly or stran gely are necessarily possessed by
the devil. H e is bidden to acquain t h im self w ith the criteria
w h ich d istin gu ish cases o f true possession fro m those o f an
CLAIRVOYANCE 2
4
5
“atrabilious” temperament or of disease, and among the
most sure tests of the former condition it is laid down that
the action of the evil spirit may safely be assumed when the
suspected energumen speaks or understands languages he
has never learned or “betrays a knowledge of distant and
hidden things.” It thus seems to be intimated that a knowl­
edge of distant and hidden things lies beyond man’s natural
powers. We are left to understand that if any reputed seer
is able without the aid of mechanical contrivances to tell
what is going on a hundred miles away, he must either have
had a supernatural revelation from God or must be in some
sense acting under diabolic influence. Although it is not easy
to find this proposition explicitly laid down anywhere in
precise terms, the impression resulting from a perusal of the
relevant passages in Pope Benedict X IV ’s great work on
Beatification and Canonization is that the writer judges of
all abnormal knowledge in accordance with this canon. To
know and disclose events happening at a distance, as St. Pius
V is said to have been aware of the naval victory over the
Turks at Lepanto at the very hour when it took place, is ac­
counted a form of prophecy and is treated in reputed servants
of God as a miraculous confirmation of their sanctity. I can­
not find in any of the early Catholic writers on mysticism or
on psychology a recognition that there may be such a thing
as natural clairvoyance, even acting rarely and intermittently.
On the other hand, there seems to me to be a distinct tendency
among more recent authorities of the strictest orthodoxy to
recognise that our understanding of these matters can by no
means be accounted adequate and still less final. Perhaps a
passage from Cardinal Mercier’s Manual of Modern Scho­
lastic Philosophy will serve as well as a dozen similar utter­
ances, which might be quoted from other sources, to illus­
trate this change of attitude.
246 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
“ A similar explanation [i.e., of cerebral action capable of some sort
of transmission from the brain of the operator] may possibly account
for telepathy, which etymologically means sensation at a distance. Of
this phenomenon examples are by no means rare. A typical instance
is the case of a young man who went bathing and was drowned; his
sister, who was several miles away, was at the same moment overcome
with emotion and saw the whole tragedy enacted in a small pool
close to where she was sitting. It would be difficult to ascribe all cases
of telepathy to deceit or to hallucination, and yet its explanation is
baffling. It has this much in common with mental suggestion, that
the communication between agent and patient takes place without the
aid of the sense-organs, and that the agent puts forth a good deal of
energy whilst the patient is in a state of excessive nervous excitability.
The distance, however, which is sometimes very considerable between
the two people, as well as the very diverse forms the phenomena may
assume, do not allow us to identify telepathy with simple mental sug­
gestion. It may be that certain natural factors in the events have not
yet been disclosed. It may even be that all or part of the effect is due
to some preternatural agencies. The solution of the problem remains
for the future.” 1
Cardinal Mercier seems here himself to recognize that the
difficulty is complicated by “the very diverse forms which
the phenomena may assume,” and certainly among the rec­
orded instances of the knowledge of things occurring at a
distance there are many in which it would be hard to sup­
pose the operation of any agent brain employed in the work
of transmission. Taking for granted the authenticity of the
Lepanto example or that of St. Theresa’s vision of the mar­
tyrdom of Blessed Ignatius Azevedo and Companions, one
cannot easily admit the possibility of any cerebral influence
emanating from the participators in these scenes should a
purely psychic explanation be attempted. Even more difficult
of explanation on these lines is the famous case of Sweden­
borg, thus recounted in a letter of the philosopher Kant.
1Manual of Modern Scholastic Philosophy (Eng. trans., with special letter from
Cardinal Mercier to the translators, dated June 10, 19 16 ), Vol. I, p. 290.
CLAIRVOYANCE 247
“ But the following occurrence appears to me to have the greatest
weight of proof and to set the assertion respecting Swedenborg’s ex­
traordinary gift beyond all possibility of doubt. In the year 1756 when
Swedenborg, towards the end of September on Saturday at 4 p.m., ar­
rived at Gothenburg from England, Mr. W . Castel invited him to his
house, together with a party of fifteen persons. About 6 o’clock Swe­
denborg went out, and after a short interval returned to the company,
quite pale and alarmed'. He said that a dangerous fire had just broken
out in Stockholm, at the Sudermalm (Gothenburg is about 50 miles2
from Stockholm), and that it was spreading very fast. He was restless
and went out often. He said that the house of one of his friends,
whom he named, was already in ashes, and that his own was in
danger. At 8 o’clock, after he had been out again, he joyfully ex­
claimed: ‘Thank God! the fire is extinguished, the third door from
my house.’ The news occasioned great commotion through the whole
city and particularly among the company in which he was. It was an­
nounced to the Governor, who questioned him concerning the dis­
aster. Swedenborg described the fire precisely. . . . On the Monday
evening a messenger arrived in Gothenburg who had been despatched
during the time of the fire. In the letters brought by him the fire was
described precisely in the manner stated by Swedenborg. On the Tues­
day morning the royal courier arrived at the Governor’s with intel­
ligence of the fire, the loss it had occasioned, and of the houses it had
damaged and ruined, not in the least differing from that which Swe­
denborg had given immediately it had ceased; for the fire was ex­
tinguished at 8 o’clock.
“ What can be brought forward against the authenticity of this oc­
currence? My friend who wrote this to me, has not only examined the
circumstances of this extraordinary case at Stockholm, but also, about
two months ago, at Gothenburg where he is acquainted with the most
respectable houses, and where he could obtain the most authentic and
complete information, as the greater part of the inhabitants, who are
still alive, were witnesses to the memorable occurrence.” 8
*Kant means German miles. An inspection of the map shows that Gothenburg,
on the south-west coast of Sweden, is 300 English miles distant, as the crow flies,
from Stockholm, which is on the east coast.
*J. F. Tafcl, Documents concerning Swedenborg. Trans, by I. H. Smithson,
Manchester, 1841, letter to Mme. de Knoblock, afterwards Klingsporn.
248 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Some difficulty has been raised regarding the value of this
testimony owing to the disputed date of the letter in which
it occurs, and owing also to the tone adopted towards Swed­
enborg in Kant’s Traume eines Geistersehers. The matter can­
not be discussed here, but it seems to me that F. Sewall has
been successful in demonstrating that sceptical as Kant was
regarding supernormal occurrences, it is the letter which
more correctly represents his attitude to the incident related.
Does there, then, exist such a thing as natural — by which
word I do not mean normal, but natural as opposed to dia­
bolic or supernatural — clairvoyance ? I am strongly inclined
to think so, though it must be confessed that we know abso­
lutely nothing of the conditions which call it into play. For
years, as I have noted above, there was persistent tendency
among certain Catholic theologians to regard all the phe­
nomena of hypnotism as diabolical in origin. The book
L ’lpnotismo tomato di moda, of Padre Pio Franco, S.J., may
be taken as representative of the more extreme conclusions of
this school. It was answered very effectively, as I hold, by var­
ious other students of the subject, notably by Père M. T. Co-
connier, O.P., in his Hypnotisme Franc, and at the present
time the lawfulness, under due safeguards, of experimenting
in hypnotic phenomena and of employing hypnotism reme-
dially in the treatment of certain neuroses is not disputed in
any of the more recent textbooks of moral theology. As Père
Coconnier points out, a considerable part of the prejudice
which had been aroused against the use of hypnotism was
due to its association in the early books (produced in the
days when the subject was new and was then usually spoken
of as mesmerism or animal magnetism) with the phenom­
ena of “clairvoyance,” which often, so it was claimed, in­
cluded cases of prevision of the future and very marvellous
descriptions of diseased internal organs, or of events taking
CLAIRVOYANCE 249
place at a distance. There seems a general tendency at the
present time to treat this clairvoyant faculty which was once
supposed to be developed in the mesmeric trance as apocry­
phal.4 Père Coconnier himself, writing as long ago as 1897,
adopts this attitude, and it may be admitted that the more
scientific treatises on hypnotism, the work for the most part
of men whose tendencies are strongly rationalistic and op­
posed even to that modicum of recognition of the super­
sensible which is involved in psychic research, say practically
nothing of the possibility of abnormal knowledge in their
hypnotized subjects. In this, as in all such investigations de­
pending upon human testimony which cannot now be sub­
jected to cross-examination, and which is undoubtedly liable
to many errors arising from mal-observation, lapse of mem­
ory, preconvictions, etc., it is necessary to step very warily, but
I must confess that I should find it hard to reject altogether
the statements made by serious observers of some scientific
standing, unless one is also prepared to throw overboard the
testimony of precisely the same character made in regard of
Catholic miracles by witnesses whose evidence is relied upon
in the canonization processes of the Catholic Church. Ixt me
give a few examples, the first of which I take from the
Letters to a Candid Inquirer on Animal Magnetism, by
William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., who was then (1851) Pro­
fessor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh.
“ At the house of Dr. Schmitz, Rector of the High School here, I
saw a little boy, of about nine years of age, put into the magnetic
sleep by a young man of seventeen. As the boy was said to be clair­
voyant, I requested him through his magnetizer, whom alone he
heard, to visit, mentally, my house, which was nearly a mile off, and
perfectly unknown to him. He said he would, and soon, when asked,
'Dr. Albert Moll, for example, in the 5th edition (1924) of his standard work
Der Hypnotismus pronounces against the existence of any sort of clairvoyance;
see pp. 660-68.
250 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
began to describe the back drawing-room, in which he saw a side­
board with glasses, and on the side-board a singular apparatus, which
he described. In fact this room, though I had not told him so, is used
as a dining-room, and has a side-board, on which stood at that mo­
ment glasses, and an apparatus for preparing soda-water, which I had
brought from Germany, and which was then quite new in Edin­
burgh. I then requested him, after he had mentioned some other de­
tails, to look at the front room, in which he described two small por­
traits, most of the furniture, mirrors, ornamental glasses, and the po­
sition of the pianoforte, which is very unusual. Being asked whom he
saw in the room, he replied, only a lady, whose dress he described,
and a boy. This I ascertained to be correct at that time. As it was
just possible that this might have been done by thought-reading, al­
though I could detect no trace of any sympathy with me, I then re­
quested Dr. Schmitz to go into another room, and there to do what­
ever he pleased, while we should try whether the boy could see what
he did. Dr. S. took with him his son, and when the sleeper was asked
to look into the other room, he began to laugh, and said that Theo­
dore (Dr. S.’s son) was a funny boy, and was gesticulating in a par­
ticular way with his arms, while Dr. S. stood looking on. He said
that Theodore had left the room, and after a while that he had re­
turned; then that Theodore was jumping about; and being asked
about Dr. S., declined more than once to say, not liking to tell, as he
said, but at last told us that he also was jumping about. Lastly, he
said Dr. S. was beating his son, not with a stick, though he saw a
stick in the room, but with a roll of paper. All this did not occupy
more than seven or eight minutes, and when Dr. S. returned, I at
once gave him the above account of his proceedings, which he, much
astonished, declared to be correct in every particular.”5
I must confess that all this coming upon the authority of
a University Professor of Science as a personal experience
makes upon me a very favourable impression, so far as re­
gards the accuracy of the statements therein contained. One
certainly cannot suspect the narrator of any deliberate mis­
representation, and the detail of the boy not liking to tell
when he saw Dr. Schmitz behaving ridiculously strikes one
“Gregory, Letters on Animal Magnetism, pp. 423—
424.
CLAIRVOYANCE 251
as true to life. On the other hand, it would seem a very
violent hypothesis to suppose that this young child, by allow­
ing himself to be hypnotized, had put himself in the power
of the devil and had really only become the mouthpiece of
the evil one.
Again we may notice that, by naming Dr. Schmitz, Pro­
fessor Gregory supplies an indirect, but by no means unim­
portant, guarantee of his own credibility. As we may learn
from the Dictionary of National Biography, Dr. Leonhard
Schmitz, who became Rector of the Edinburgh High School
in 1845, was a very distinguished scholar. In 1859 the Prince
of Wales, afterwards Edward VII, “came to Edinburgh to
receive instruction from him as a private student,” and the
Duke of Edinburgh, another son of Queen Victoria, was his
pupil in 1862-63, while many people will be able to recall
the fact that at a still later date he was for two periods clas­
sical examiner in the University of London.6 The same no­
tice in the D.N.B. refers to the boy Carl Theodore, here
spoken of, who was his eldest son. It is tolerably plain that
the description of such a scene, which took place in Dr.
Schmitz’s own house, could hardly have been printed with
full names without that gentleman’s sanction.
In a single chapter like the present it is not easy to give
an idea of the cumulative force of the evidence which may
be adduced to prove the existence of a faculty of clairvoyance
in the hypnotic trance. Unless details are supplied, a bald
statement of what is claimed for the clairvoyant’s powers is
quite unconvincing, and details cannot be furnished without
a considerable expenditure of space. I must, therefore, be
content with a relatively small selection of illustrations, while
’Those who, like myself, presented themselves for examination before the
University of London in the period 1874—
1878 will remember that Dr. Leonhard
Schmitz often presided in the examination room, then at Burlington Gardens.
252 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
begging the reader to believe that many more could be fur­
nished which are not less impressive than those here cited.
Let me, then, take from the same book of Professor Gregory
an extract from a letter written to him by the Rev. A. Gil-
mour, whom he describes as “a highly respected clergyman,
residing at Greenock, and well known to be a very able and
accomplished gentleman.” Mr. Gilmour was interested in
mesmerism and had been experimenting with one of his
servants, V.R., a girl of eighteen, who proved to be a remark­
ably susceptible subject. Here are one or two of the experi­
ences he records:
“ On March 8, 1844, one of our most intelligent physicians, his
sister, two ladies, and one of our magistrates, dined with me and we
had a mesmeric seance. We requested her (V .R .) to visit (clairvoy-
antly) the house of Mrs. P., one of the ladies present. This house was
in Greenock, distant from my cottage about a mile and a quarter.
She saw her servant in the kitchen, but said that another woman was
with her. On being pressed to look earnestly at the woman, she said
it was C — M — . This Mrs. P. declared to be true. We then asked
her if any person was in Mrs. P.’s parlour, when she said that Miss
Laing was there, a young lady from Edinburgh who was boarding
with Mrs. P. at the time; that she was sitting on the sofa; that she
was crying, and that a letter was in her hand. On the party breaking
up, I walked into Greenock with the ladies and gentlemen, in order
to see if she was right about Miss L. It was true. Miss L. had received
a letter by that evening’s post from her father in Edinburgh, stating
that her mother was not expected to live, and requesting her to come
home by the first train in the morning.” 7
It may readily be confessed that evidence of this sort is far
from conclusive. Mr. Gilmour may quite possibly have been
one of that class of people who, having strong preconvictions,
find in everything that happens a confirmation of their pet
theories and seem utterly incapable of allowing for, or even
taking note of, any facts which tell the other way. I am
’Gregory, op. at., p. 454.
CLAIRVOYANCE 2
5
3
bound to say that I see no indication of this mentality in Mr.
Gilmour’s letter. On the contrary he mentions some details
regarding the sympathetic relation between himself and his
clairvoyant which are remarkably in accord with facts ob­
served elsewhere at a much later date. For example, he writes
of this clairvoyant, V.R.: “ She is able to tell what I taste,
such as soda, salt, sugar, milk, water, etc., though not in the
same room with me. When my foot is pricked, or my hair
pulled, or any part of my person pinched, she feels it and
describes it unerringly.”8 All this is in close accord with the
observations which Col. de Rochas recorded many years
afterwards in his book, L ’Extériorisation de la Sensibilité,
and many analogous features seem to be discernible in the
rapport which has existed between certain mystics and their
directors, or between Anne Catherine Emmerich and her
amanuensis, Clement Brentano. But the point I wish to stress
is that this evidence is, on the face of it, just as reliable as
that adduced for the strange knowledge and behaviour of
energumens when confronted with the exorcisms of the
Church. There is a comparatively recent case reported from
the Vicariate of Natal in South Africa, where two native
girls were exorcised in 1907. The account, furnished by Bish­
op Delalle himself, attracted a good deal of attention and was
many times reprinted as a palmary example by itself of the
phenomena of diabolical possession which could not be gain­
said.9 Now while I have not the least thought of seeking to
discredit the narrative of facts there presented, it seems rea­
sonable to point out that for the independent critic there was
'Gregory, Letters, p. 453. Sir William Barrett in Proceedings S.P.R., describes
a precisely similar case which he personally observed and repeatedly tested. See
Vol. I, pp. 240-244 and Vol. XXXIV, p. 282.
'See, for example, Father G. H. Joyce, S.J., The Question 0/ Miracles, pp. 12 5 -
29; H. V. O’Neill in the Irish Eccles, Record, April, 1922, pp. 377-38 1; Catholic
Medical Guardian, October, 1926, pp. 148-150.
254 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
on the face of things nothing which rendered the Bishop’s
statement more evidential than that of Mr. Gilmour. We
have in each case the account given by the principal actor in
the scene, but no confirmatory testimony was then adduced.
We knew nothing in either instance regarding the possible
bias, credulity or prepossessions of the relator.
But let me turn to another remarkable clairvoyant, the
servant girl Emma, of whom Dr. J. W. Haddock has written
so copiously in his Somnolism and Psycheism \sic\, pub­
lished, like Professor Gregory’s book, in 1851. Emma was ab­
solutely illiterate, being unable to read or write, and so far
as the printed details would indicate, she seems to have been
a rather religiously minded girl, with no evil or degenerate
instincts. Though the following extract is long, it will be well
to quote Dr. Haddock’s words without abridgment, as they
afford the best authorized account available of her extraor­
dinary mental journeys.
“ Emma,” he writes, “ has frequently been directed to find persons
in distant parts of the globe, and, whenever it could be done, the hand­
writing, or something else belonging to these individuals, was given
her to form the medium of connection. The reason of my using the
handwriting for this purpose is as follows. On the 4th of August,
1848, a gentleman of Bolton brought a letter written by a lady, the
wife of a physician in Gloucestershire. This lady had heard of other
clairvoyants describing the diseases of distant people, by using their
handwriting as a means of connection; and she was desirous of as­
certaining whether Emma could see and describe her state. Emma
put the letter over her head as she used to do with the pictures,10 and
’“In the hypnotic trance Emma saw nothing with her eyes. The lids were shut,
and if they are forcibly raised the pupil of the eye was found turned right up­
wards, so that only the whites showed. To exclude, however, all possibility of
deception, she was sometimes, in addition, most effectively blindfolded. In this
condition pictures were given her, which she never put before her face, but held
over the top of her head, and in the same position described what they represented.
Sir William Barrett's Irish subject similarly put the cards or object she was asked
to describe to the side of her head behind her ear. Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. I,
pp. 242-3.
CLAIRVOYANCE 2
5
5
carefully felt it with her right fingers, and then said ‘it was a lady’s
up-and-down strokes’ — her phrase at that period for writing. She
described the lady, as to her personal appearance, accurately; even to
a small blemish occasioned by an accident; the internal organs of the
body; an affection of the spine under which she was labouring; the
situation and appearance of the place where she was residing, and
many more particulars. The accuracy of her descriptions was admitted
by the doctor, and subsequently I had an opportunity personally to
verify some of her statements. The envelope was directed by the doc­
tor; and him she had described correctly, both as to his personal
character, general pursuits and literary tendencies. This was an en­
tirely new experiment, and finding the result so unexpected and strik­
ing, it led to many more, some of which were more remarkable. Once
some ladies from Manchester gave her the handwriting of a clergy­
man at Archangel in Russia. She described the individual correctly,
as to his personal appearance and little peculiarities, and her remarks
as to the climate and season were correct. The writing was taken from
her, and the writing of another gentleman in Australia was given her;
she was soon mentally there, described the climate and season, and
expressed her surprise at finding the seasons reversed, when compared
with England, having no knowledge of the effect of latitude and longi­
tude in altering season and time. She appeared to have got to a
great sheep farm, and her remarks were very homely but very graphic.
Nothing was said to her of the localities or employments of the writers.
At another time a letter written by a gentleman at Cairo was put into
her hand. She soon said it was written by a gentleman (which she had
no means of knowing by her normal knowledge), and she described
him, as to the condition of his health and the place where he was re­
siding, together with the climate, and appearance of the people there,
even to the peculiar veil worn by the Egyptian ladies, at which she
expressed great surprise. The correctness of her statement as to the
gentleman’s health, that is of a severe illness under which he had been
labouring, was ascertained from a subsequent letter, and further par­
ticulars on the gentleman’s arrival in England.” 11
It was not only Dr. Haddock and Professor Gregory who
were interested in Emma’s phenomena. A distinguished sci-
“ Haddock, Somnolism and Psychctsm, pp. 13 0 -13 1.
256 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
entist and Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Sir
Walter Calverley Trevelyan,12 seems also to have taken part
in the experiments made to test her gift of clairvoyance.
From the secretary of the Royal Geographical Society he
obtained three specimens of handwriting from persons un­
known to him (Sir Walter), and without their names, and
these were submitted to Emma with the following results:
“ 1. She soon discovered No. 1, and described his person, as well as
the city in which he was and the surrounding country. When asked
the hour there, she looked, but she could not tell. It appeared on sub­
sequent inquiry that No. 1 was in Rome, and that E.’s description of
him, as well as of the city, etc., was exact. As she generally finds the
hour by looking at some clock or watch, it would appear that she had
been puzzled by the clocks of Rome which have 24 hours instead of
12.
“ 2. In the case of No. 2, E. soon discovered where he was, and
gave the hour there; but it is remarkable that she could not see the
person himself. She described the country, and spoke of crops of large
yellow corn then standing (late in October). The longitude, calculated
from the hour she gave, corresponded to that of a part of Tuscany;
and on inquiry it was found that No. 2 resided in Florence, but was
in the habit of travelling about the country. The corn appears to have
been the second crop of maize, which was then standing in Tuscany.
“ 3. In the case of No. 3, E. found and described him, and said he
was in a street which she described in a large city; the time she gave
differed from that of Bolton by 2*4 or 3 minutes only, and indicated
the longitude of London. On inquiry it appeared, that when the
writing was sent, No. 3, whose person was accurately described,
was supposed to be at a much greater distance than the other,
but that before E. saw his handwriting, he had unexpectedly returned
and was then in London.
“ In these experiments, which were communicated to me by Sir W.
Trevelyan, thought-reading was out of the question, for Sir W . T.
did not even know the names of the persons, and if he had known
12A notice of Sir Walter C. Trevelyan will be found in the Dictionary of
National Biography.
CLAIRVOYANCE 2
5
7
all about them, he was not at Bolton but in Edinburgh. Dr. Haddock
had no knowledge whatever of the persons whose writing was sent.” 13
One curious feature which attended many of these mental
excursions was the extraordinary state of physical exhaustion
which was observed in Emma when she came back from
them. Those who are familiar with the phenomena recorded
by the biographers of Anne Catherine Emmerick will re­
member that analogous symptoms of distress and fatigue were
often manifested by her when she, as she believed, had been
employed upon some corporal or spiritual work of mercy in
far-off lands during her ecstasies. “At this time,” writes Dr.
Haddock, “whenever Emma was sent on these distant ex­
cursions, she exhibited great signs of fatigue and excitement,
panting for breath, and suffering from violent action of the
heart. When asked why she panted so, she would say: ‘I’ve
gone so fast,’ and, ‘It is such a way.’ ” Much more might be
added on this topic, but I must content myself with one final
example of Emma’s strange powers of clairvoyance, which
seems from the mention of letters written at the time to de­
pend upon better evidence than a vague personal memory.
“ Sir Walter Trevelyan, having received a letter from a lady in Lon­
don, in which the loss of a gold watch, supposed to have been stolen,
was mentioned, sent the letter to Dr. Haddock to see whether E.
could trace the watch. She very soon saw the lady, and described her
accurately. She also described intimately the house and furniture and
said she saw the ‘marks’ of the watch (the phrase she employs for
the traces left by persons or things, probably luminous to her) on a
certain table. It had, she said, a gold dial-plate, gold figures, and a gold
chain with square links; in the letter it was simply called a gold
watch, without any description. She said it had been taken by a young
woman, not an habitual thief, who felt alarmed at what she had done,
but still thought her mistress would not suspect her. She added that
she would be able to point out the writing of the thief. On this oc­
casion, as is almost always the case with E., she spoke to the person
“ Gregory, op. cit., pp. 407-408.
258 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
seen, as if conversing with her, and was very angry with her. Sir W.
Trevelyan sent this information, and requested the writing of all the
servants in the house to be sent. In answer, the lady stated, that E.’s
description exactly applied to one of her two maids, but that her sus­
picions rested on the other. She also sent several pieces of writing, in­
cluding that of both maids. E. instantly selected that of the girl she
had described, became very angry, and said: ‘You are thinking of
pretending to find the watch, and restoring it, but you took it; you
know you did.’ Before Sir W . Trevelyan’s letter containing this in­
formation had reached the lady, he received another letter, in which
he was informed, that the girl indicated as the thief by E. had brought
back the watch saying she had found it. In this case Sir W . T . was at
a great distance from Bolton, and even had he been present, he knew
nothing of the house or the persons concerned, except the lady, so that
even had he been in Bolton, and beside the clairvoyant, thought­
reading was out of the question. I have seen, in the possession of Sir
Walter, all the letters which passed, and I consider the case as demon­
strating the existence of sympathetic clairvoyance at a great distance.”14
Although the striking cases just cited are remote in date,
it must not be supposed that the clairvoyant faculty exhibited
by Dr. Gregory’s boy subject or by Dr. Haddock’s Emma is
without modern parallel. Not very long before his death,
the well-known psychic investigator Dr. Gustave Geley of
Paris, published a substantial volume entitled L ’Ectoplasmie
et la Clairvoyance,15 a great part of which is devoted to an
account of experiments carried out with a Mr. Stephan Osso-
wiecki. It is perhaps worth while to note that although more
than half a dozen years have elapsed since the book was pub­
lished, I have heard of no accusation of fraud being made in
connexion either with the author of the book or with the
sensitive who figures so prominently in his pages. The pho­
tographic reproductions with which the volume is illustrated
add considerably to its interest and help to carry conviction
’ ’Gregory, op. cit., pp. 405-406.
I!It has been translated into English by Mr. Stanley de Brath, under the title
of Clairvoyance and Materialization (1927).
CLAIRVOYANCE 259
of the genuineness of the incidents recorded, but they are
happily in no way necessary to an understanding of what
took place.
We are told that Stephan Ossowiecki, born of Polish par­
ents in 1877, entered a great Russian technical school at what
was then St. Petersburg, in 1894. It is said that even at that age
his clairvoyant faculty was remarkable, and that he could
see “auras.” Not understanding this latter experience, he con­
sulted an eminent oculist who pronounced that he was in
imminent danger of losing his sight and prescribed drastic
remedies. Some little time after this, however, he came across
an old Jew who had a great reputation as a seer. This man
reassured him as to the condition of his eyes, and explained
that the mistake had arisen from the fact that his psychic
gifts were altogether out of the common. The acquaintance
is alleged to have led to a vision by the Jew, in which he fore­
told Ossowiecki that he saw him spending months in
prison, condemned to death but saved at the last moment.
He added that after a struggle with poverty he would secure
a good position, would marry a woman whose first name
would be Anna, and that between his forty-fifth and forty-
eighth year his name would become famous throughout
Europe. So, certainly, it happened. He was imprisoned at
Moscow in 1918 under the Bolshevik régime because he had
had relations with certain officers of the French military mis­
sion who were suspected of anti-Soviet propaganda. He was
confined for six months in a filthy dungeon, having only
one salt fish and a glass of water for his daily food. Much
of his time was spent compulsorily in digging graves for his
fellow prisoners who were shot. Eventually his own turn
came, and with a number of others he was led out to the
place of execution before a firing party. At the last moment
the intervention of a high official who had been a fellow stu-
260 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
dent with him in the engineering school saved his life, but
he remained for some time after his imprisonment physically
a wreck. Since then, it seems, he has regained vigorous
health, has married a lady named Anna, is a prosperous busi­
ness man, and his name, through his feats of clairvoyance, is
now known far and wide.
It may possibly be remembered that in discussing above
the feats of Dr. Haddock’s Emma, mention was made of the
recovery of a lost watch which a servant had been suspected
of stealing, and which Emma upon contact with the letter
announcing the loss had been able to describe and to trace.
As a first illustration of Mr. Ossowiecki’s powers I take a
somewhat similar incident of the loss of a piece of jewellery.
The story is told in a letter from the lady — she is the wife
of a judge of the supreme court in Poland — who had lost
the brooch in question, and her account bears the date July
22, 1922.
“ I lost my brooch on Monday morning, June 6. In the afternoon of
the same day I visited the wife of General Krieger, Mr. Ossowiecki’s
mother, with my brother, M. de Bondy, engineer, who was a witness
of what occurred.
“ Mr. Ossowiecki came in, my brother introduced me to his friend,
and I said I was delighted to make acquaintance with one so gifted.
. . . He told us many interesting things. . . . Then in a moment of
silence I said to him: ‘I have lost my brooch today. Could you tell
me anything about it?’ . . . ‘The brooch, Madame, is at your house
in a box; it is a metal brooch, round, with a stone in the middle. You
wore it three days ago and you value it.’ ‘No,’ I said, ‘not that one.’
(He had given a good description of a brooch kept in the same box
with the one I had lost.) Then he said: ‘I am sorry not to have
guessed aright. . . . I am rather tired but will try to concentrate. I
should like to have some material thing that the brooch has been con­
nected with.’ . . . ‘Sir, the brooch was fastened here, on this dress.’
He placed his fingers on the spot indicated, and after a few seconds
said: ‘Yes, I see it well. It is oval, or gold, very light, an antique
which is dear to you as a family souvenir; I could draw it, so clearly
CLAIRVOYANCE 261
do I see it. It has “ears,” as it were, and is in two parts, interpenetrat­
ing, like fingers clasped together.’ . . . ‘What you say sir, is most
extraordinary. It could not be better described.’ . . . He went on:
‘You lost it a long way from here’ (this was actually about two and
a half miles). ‘Yes, in Mokotowska Street, at Koszykowa corner.’
‘Yes,’ I said, ‘I went there today.’ ‘Then,’ he said, ‘a poorly-
dressed man with a black moustache stoops down and picks it up. It
will be very difficult to get it back. Try an advertisement in the
papers.’ ”
The astounding conclusion may be told in fewer words
than are used by the writer of the letter. It appears that the
very next day Mr. Ossowiecki met in the street a man whom
he recognized as the one he had mentally seen picking up
the brooch. He went up to him and said to him gently: “Sir,
yesterday you found a brooch at the corner of Mokotowska
and Koszykowa Streets.” “Yes,” replied the man, who
turned pale when his questioner gave details of the incident;
but he eventually surrendered the trinket and declared that
he had intended to advertise its finding.
From an evidential point of view, no doubt, this story
leaves much to be desired, but there is no possible reason to
suspect the accuracy of the facts, in view of the many other
examples given of Ossowiecki’s extraordinary perceptions
under the strictest test of conditions. Perhaps no incident is
more likely to bring conviction to English readers than the
experiment for which Mr. Dingwall, who attended the In­
ternational Congress held at Warsaw in 1923 as the repre­
sentative of the (British) Society for Psychical Research, was
personally responsible. His own narrative of this feat of clair­
voyance has been more than once printed. It is given by Dr.
Geley, but it is also to be found in the Official Report of the
Congress as well as in The Journal of the Society for Psy­
chical Research. Mr. Dingwall explains that before leaving
England he wrote in French upon the upper part of a single
262 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
sheet of notepaper the words: “The vineyards of the Rhine,
of the Moselle and of Burgundy yield excellent wine” ; lower
down he drew a bottle very roughly, with an oblong as a
sort of frame surrounding it, and the date in another corner.
The paper was then folded so that the bottle with the date
were on one side and the French writing on the other. The
sheet thus folded was then enclosed in an opaque red-paper
envelope fitting tightly; the red envelope in turn was put
inside a dull black one, and this again into a brown one and
the flap of the last of these three was gummed down and
sealed. For additional precaution, in order to make it im­
possible for anyone to open the envelope hurriedly and re­
place all the contents as they were before without detection,
a tiny hole was pierced through the packet with a fine needle
in four places. Of the contents of the packet Mr. Dingwall
said not a word to anyone. He took it to Warsaw and there
gave it into the hands of Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, him­
self refraining from being present at the experiment for fear
that Mr. Ossowiecki’s attempt to visualize the contents might
be helped by some unconscious betrayal on his part of the
knowledge concerning them which he (Dingwall) alone
possessed. The same evening the packet and two other sealed
letters were given to Ossowiecki. The account of the latter’s
successful divination is somewhat complicated by details
which concern only the two other letters, but it was the
Dingwall packet which the psychic held tightly in his hands
under the eyes of all in full light. He spoke by snatches. I
copy only what concerns Mr. Dingwall’s test.
“ The letter I am holding has several envelopes. . . . It is a letter
and yet it is not a letter. . . . I see something greenish in cardboard
(en carton). . . . The letter that I am holding has been prepared for
me . . . I cannot understand . . . I see . . . something red . . .
colours . . . a lady on one side. . . . (Long pause.) I do not know
why I see a little bottle. . . . There is a drawing made by a man who
is not an artist . . . something red with this bottle. . . . There is
A \k
CLAIRVOYANCE 263
without any doubt a second red envelope. . . . There is a square
drawn at the corner of the paper. The bottle is very badly drawn. I see
it! I see it! (Upon a slip of paper he sketches a bottle, encloses it by
drawing an oblong round it, and afterwards writes 19 — 23 at the op­
posite side low down.) . . . There is something else; something white
and in the middle . . . I see, before the year, there is a date or the
name of a town. . . . It is rather a feminine than a masculine hand.”
Baron von Schrenck then enquired what language it was
written in. “ In French,” Mr. Ossowiecki replied, and he
added:
“ The bottle is a little inclined to one side. It has no cork. It is made
up of several fine lines. There is first a brown envelope outside, then
a greenish envelope, and then a red envelope. Inside a piece of white
paper folded in two with the drawing inside. It is written on a single
sheet.”
It would require facsimiles of the paper originally prepared
by Mr. Dingwall and of Ossowiecki’s visualized reproduc­
tion, to give an adequate idea of the remarkable success of
this experiment.16 There are, of course, many imperfections
in Ossowiecki’s description. He made no attempt to read the
words written in French. He speaks of the second envelope
as “greenish,” whereas Dingwall calls it “dull black.” He has
not reproduced the date quite correctly. None the less the
copy of the bottle, the oblong drawn round it, and the rela­
tive position of both to that of the date written below, are
marvellously good and utterly put out of court any attempt to
explain the sketch as a mere lucky guess. The packet was
returned to Mr. Dingwall still unopened, and the verifica­
tion only took place next morning at a meeting of the Con­
gress. On that occasion the English investigator explained to
the company the precautions he had taken, and in his ac­
count subsequently printed for the S.P.R. he adds:
'"The report of the Warsaw International Congress of 1923, published under
the title L ’État actuel des Recherches Psychiques (Paris: 1924), prints these
facsimiles (needleholes included) in the exact size of the originals; pp. 202-203.
264 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
"The envelope appeared to be wholly intact and no evidence what­
ever was discernable that the packet had been opened. I have no
doubt that the test was valid and that the knowledge of the contents
had been ascertained by Mr. Ossowiecki through channels not gen­
erally recognized. The opening of the packet created a sensation. Mr.
Ossowiecki received an ovation and fell on the necks of the observers
with tears in his eyes. . . . The supernormal character of the incident
seems to me quite clear and decisive.” 17
It is noteworthy that in Mr. Ossowiecki’s attempts to de­
scribe the contents of sealed envelopes, etc., he constantly
furnishes details regarding the character of the writer or the
circumstances under which they were written. Here is a case
in point, which I reproduce in Dr. Geley’s own words:
“ I gave the medium (i.e., Mr. O.) the closed letter left with me by
Prof. Richet.18 His words, taken down verbatim, were as follows,
spoken quickly and without hesitation: ‘It speaks of a lady named
Berger. A man aged about 50 has written this letter, which is an
answer to one by Prof. Richet. The letter does not come from Paris,
but from somewhere near the sea, and deals with divers matters. It
is an invitation. There is something about a Mrs. Berger. This lady
is 33 and married. I cannot read it. It is written very quickly, with­
out order and is disjointed. The man who wrote it is musical.’ In
this monologue there is only one error — ‘a place near the sea’ (the
letter came from Berlin) — all the rest is accurate. It was an invita­
tion to confer [sic] in the name of several societies of divers titles. It
said: ‘You will be the honoured guest of Mme. Berger’; it was written
‘in all haste’; it was badly written and somewhat incoherent. The
age and characteristics of Mr. and Mrs. Berger are correct.”
Among other letters similarly experimented with at War­
saw was one which Dr. Geley had asked his wife to address
to him for this purpose from their home in Paris. He had
no idea what she would write, and had not opened the en­
velope. In point of fact, Mme. Geley had put nothing inside
” Journal of the S.P.R., May, 1924, p. 263.
18The letter was enclosed in another envelope and showed nothing of the
address, etc.
CLAIRVOYANCE 265
the envelope but a complimentary epistle to the psychic him­
self, who was apparently unknown to her, beginning: “Mon­
sieur Ossowiecki — Sir, I congratulate you on your marvel­
lous gifts, etc.” Taking the letter into his hands, the Polish
clairvoyant spoke of it as follows:
“ A lady aged . . . (here Mme. Geley’s exact age) has written this
letter. It is addressed to me. It is a kindly message. Her ideas of ad­
miration and good wishes. . . . One of her daughters was by her
side when writing. This was written on the second story. The lady
looks tired. She wrote in a little room where the chairs are uphol­
stered in dark leather. The letter was written on August 22. This lady
admires me and will be happy to make my acquaintance and hopes
to see me soon. The letter was written between 4 and 5 p.m.”
The epistle itself, of course, contained no details as to the
circumstances under which it was written. On the descrip­
tion Dr. Geley comments that it was all quite correct, “ex­
cept that the leather-covered chairs are in the next room, in
which Mme. Geley had passed the greater part of the day.
All the rest is quite accurate as to place, time, and date. Mme.
Geley was very tired that afternoon.”
In connexion with another closed letter which was sub­
mitted to Mr. Ossowiecki, the psychic remarked that the
sender had written it about six or seven in the evening while
sitting at a table with a woman beside him. On being asked
to describe the man and the woman whom he saw, Osso­
wiecki said:
“ It is on the second floor. He is clean-shaven except for a small
moustache. He is a man of 38 to 40, slender, very acute. He is not
bald, has a parting in his hair. She is stout but not tall; not blonde.
She suggested this test (according to subsequent enquiries this is not
correct). They have two children, a son and a daughter. I say this
is all true, but only one child is born; the lady appears stout because
she is close on her confinement. Mr. Ossowiecki exclaimed quickly:
‘It is a boy, I am certain; you can write so to them.’ Three days
later Mme. Sudre’s son was born. She received my letter posted on
Sept. 26 (19 21), the day after her delivery.”
266 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Perhaps the most curious of all the experiments made with
this Polish psychic was one in which the document to be
deciphered was enclosed in a leaden tube more than an inch
thick. The communication was written by a lady who left
Warsaw the same day and told no one what she had writ­
ten. The paper was rolled up, slipped into the tube and the
orifice was at once soldered down. In this state it was given
to Ossowiecki who, after declaring it was written by a
woman, announced vaguely that “it concerns Nature, in re­
lation with man and sentiment,” but he was evidently dis­
satisfied, and, refusing to allow the tube to be cut open, said
he would try again. Two days later he made a second at­
tempt, this time more successfully. In the presence of a small
company of well-known people:
“ With much difficulty at first and then more easily, Mr. Osso­
wiecki said ‘Creation . . . great creation . . . Nature.’ (A long
silence.) And then ‘This has to do with a powerful man. . . . There
is a popular feeling that he is one of the great men of the century.
. . . I cannot understand. I see two things: there is something writ­
ten, by a woman, and there is a drawing. The drawing represents a
man with heavy moustaches and heavy eyebrows, no nose. . . . He
is in uniform. . . . It is like Pildzuski. The writing is in French —
Cet homme il na peur de rien, neither in politics, nor any other kind
of ideas, comme un chevalier.’ ”
Dr. Geley then goes on to describe how the tube was sawn
open and they took out a paper which when unfolded re­
vealed a sort of shadow portrait of Marshal Pildzuski with
military cap and uniform, heavy moustache and eyebrows,
but no nose indicated, while underneath was written the
phrase Le chevalier sans peur et sans reproche. It would seem
probable, though of this we have no evidence, that when the
clairvoyant emphasized the ideas of “creation, Nature,” he
was in some vague way groping for the sentiment under the
influence of which the lady had written, identifying her hero
CLAIRVOYANCE 267
Pildzuski with the resurrection of Poland. But while this is
uncertain, there can be no question as to the accuracy of the
material description. A photographic reproduction of the
document is given in Dr. Geley’s volume.
In spite of the full detail with which Dr. Geley records
these and other experiments made to investigate the nature
of the clairvoyant faculty, it is extraordinarily difficult, not
to say impossible to frame any sort of coherent theory as to
the process by which this strange form of knowledge is ar­
rived at. Prof. Richet favours the hypothesis of tactile hy­
peresthesia, and it is undoubtedly true that Mr. Ossowiecki
presses the objects given him strongly with his hands, even
so far as to crumple up in some cases the letter he is asked
to read. It may be remembered that Dr. Haddock’s Emma
fingered the pictures or letters given her and usually placed
them in contact with the top of her head. As Mr. Ossowiecki
is an educated man it is interesting to have his own account
of his impressions. He believes that there may be something
in the nature of hyperesthesia in the process, but he is con­
vinced that this alone is not sufficient to account for the
lucidity which subsequently develops. He tells us that in
these experiments he stops all reasoning and concentrates
upon the perception of spiritual sensation, having an “un­
shakable faith in the spiritual unity of all humanity.” He
considers that he passes into a special state in which he “sees
and hears, outside time and space.” But what follows is more
definite.
“ Whether I am reading a sealed letter, or finding a lost object or
psychometrizing, the sensations are nearly the same. I seem to lose
some energy; my temperature becomes febrile and the heart-beats
unequal. I am confirmed in this supposition because as soon as I
cease from reasoning, something like electricity flows through my
extremities for a few seconds. This lasts a moment only, and then
lucidity takes possession of me, pictures arise, usually of the past.
268 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
I see the man who wrote the letter, and I know what he wrote. I see
the object at the moment of its loss, with the details of the event; or
again I perceive or feel the history of the thing I am holding in my
hands. The vision is misty and needs great tension. Considerable ef­
fort is required to perceive some details and conditions of the scenes
presented.
“ The lucid state sometimes arises in a few minutes, and sometimes
it takes hours of waiting. This depends largely on the surroundings.
Scepticism, incredulity, or even attention too much concentrated on
my person, paralyses quick success in reading or sensation.” 19
There is much in this which reminds one of Prof. Gilbert
Murray’s account of his own difficulties when telepathic ex­
periments were in progress. “The least disturbance of our
customary method,” he declares, “ change of time or place,
presence of strangers, controversy, and especially noise, is apt
to make things go wrong. I become myself somewhat over­
sensitive and irritable, though not, I believe, to a noticeable
degree.” Of course, we must recognise that in Prof. Murray’s
case there was a distinct effort on the part of those present to
concentrate upon a particular incident or scene and to impress
him with the same idea; whereas Mr. Ossowiecki’s divina­
tions were nearly always concerned with matters of which
the whole company were completely ignorant. Yet even so
there seems to be a striking resemblance in the manner of
approach to a successful intuition. The percipient first gets
the locality or atmosphere and then is able to fill in the per­
sonages concerned and other details. But the whole process
is supremely mysterious, and I cannot feel that the theories
of Dr. Eugène Osty in his Lucidité et Intuition and La Con­
naissance Supranormale, or those again of Dr. Oesterreich
or Dr. Baerwald help us forward in the least degree. For
the present, and probably for a century or more to come, the
only thing possible in this and several other fields of research
I8Gelev, Clairvoyance and Materialisation, pp. 67-68.
CLAIRVOYANCE 269
is to keep an open mind as to possibilities previously un­
dreamed of, and to collect evidence, leaving to future gen­
erations the task of classifying the results and formulating
laws from what has been observed.
Chapter XIII
“T H E G A T E OF REM EM BRA N CE”
It has already been pointed out that the alleged communica­
tions from beyond the grave, which come to us through
mediumistic channels, are strangely contradictory. No doubt,
they may seem in some individual cases to be useful in
affording comfort to bereaved survivors who are led to
suppose that they are still in touch with those whom they
have lost and that these dear ones are happy in a better world
than this. But even here the evidence for the identity of the
communicators — which is, of course, the vital point — can
never, as I hope to show in the next chapter, be adequate or
convincing. On the other hand, so far as mankind at large
is concerned, the information imparted through automatic
writing or entranced mediums has in no single instance
been shown to serve any purpose of genuine utility. Port­
folios by the hundred have been filled with automatic script;
a vast amount of this has been printed in extenso, not a little
in facsimile. And yet we seem to have obtained nothing
but a portentous mass of figments and futilities which are
of no possible profit to anyone. The output is in truth “such
stuff as dreams are made on.” It tells us nothing which adds
to the sum of human knowledge, or, if it professes to impart
information, the incoherences or inconsistencies with other
records, are so manifest as to forfeit all confidence. Even such
convinced champions of the cause as Sir Oliver Lodge
obviously feel the force of this objection and their best
energies are concentrated on the task of framing some fairly
270
“THE GATE OF REMEMBRANCE’’ 271
acceptable answer. For the most part they have to fall back
upon the plea that the movement is as yet only in its be­
ginnings and that better results will come as fuller experi­
ence is gained. Certainly he would be a courageous advocate
who ventured to appeal to the “Imperator” records of Mrs.
Piper, as valuable adjuncts to our historical sources for the
study of the Old Testament.1 So again the theological pro­
nouncements of Mr. Stainton Moses which both Sir Oliver
and Sir A. C. Doyle highly commend, are at almost every
point in flat contradiction with the equally respectable and
authoritative disclosures of Judge Edmonds and other early
automatists.
The diversity of teaching upon the question of reincarna­
tion, that is to say whether the individual soul has one earthly
existence or many existences, has already been touched upon.
One could hardly imagine a point more fundamental or of
deeper interest to mankind, and yet the illustrious dead who
imparted the Doctrine Spirite to Allan Kardec give one an­
swer, and the controls of D. D. Home and Stainton Moses
an answer in a directly opposite sense.
But apart from what may be called eschatological teach­
ing, we should at any rate expect that the spirits of the dead,
if they really communicate, would be able to tell us much
about the past history of the world as it was when they
lived in it. To go no further than the domain of archaeology
and philology, there must be a thousand matters about which
we are legitimately curious and as to which the dead could
give us information which is still verifiable; but down to the
present moment there has not been a single well-attested
example of a problem which has been solved by this means
in all the eighty years during which our mediums profess to
’See The Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XXVIII» pp.
480 seq.
272 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
have been in communication with the spirits of the departed.
It was, therefore, with considerable interest that in the
year 19x8 I turned to examine the contents of a book which
the publishers on its outer wrapper described as “a record
of remarkable archaeological discoveries directed by means
of a method of automatic writing scientifically applied.” The
work itself, to quote its full title was called “ The Gate of
Remembrance— The Story of a Psychological Experiment
which resulted in the discovery of the Edgar Chapel at
Glastonbury ’’ by Frederick Bligh Bond, F.R.I.B.A., Director
of Excavations at Glastonbury Abbey.2 From an advertise­
ment on the cover one learned that besides his archaeological
work Mr. Bond was the writer of A Preliminary Investiga­
tion of the Cabala contained in the Coptic Gnostic Boo\s
and of a similar Gematria in the Greeks of the New Testa­
ment, which afforded an indication that the author’s inter­
ests must for some time have centred in occultism; but that,
of course, did not render him in any way less competent as
an architect or an antiquary. The story of the discovery, in
brief, is this. Some few years ago the site of Glastonbury
Abbey, with the ruins still found there, passed out of private
hands “into the custody of a body of trustees, acting on
behalf of the National Church.” In these circumstances it
was deemed possible and desirable to make excavations on
a scale which Sir W. H. St. John Hope in an earlier explo­
ration (1904) had not ventured to attempt. For more than
twelve months before May, 1908, when the new investigation
began, Mr. F. B. Bond in view of his anticipated appoint­
ment as director of excavations, together with his friend J.
A.,3who, when the volume first appeared, was only indicated
!B. H. Blackwell, Broad St., Oxford, 1918. I quote throughout from his first
edition.
’It has now been disclosed that “ J. A.” or “ John Alleyne” was a Mr. J. Allen
Bartlett, who at one period of his varied career was working in Mr. Bond’s
own office.
“THE GATE OF REM EM BRANCE 273
by his initials, had saturated themselves with the literature
of the subject. As it happened, }. A. was an automatist and
Mr. Bond was keenly interested in psychical research. It was
accordingly agreed between them that they should make
some experiments, to ascertain how far automatic writing
might help them in their proposed Glastonbury explorations.
The account given of the inception of these experiments runs
as follows:
“ It was on the 7th of November, 1907 that F.B.B. and J.A. had
their first sitting for the purpose of furthering the Glastonbury re­
search. This took place at 4.30 p.m. in F.B.B.’s office. J.A. held a
pencil, F.B.B. provided foolscap paper, which he steadied with his
left hand, while placing his right lightly on the back of J.A.’s, so
that his fingers lay evenly across its surface. F.B.B. started by asking
the question, as though addressed to some other person:
“ ‘Can you tell us anything about Glastonbury?’ J.A.’s fingers began
to move, and one or two lines of small irregular writing were traced
on the paper. He did not see what was written, nor did F.B.B. de­
cipher it until complete. The agreed method was to remain passive,
avoid concentration of mind on the subject of the writing, and to
talk casually of other and indifferent matters, and this was done.”
J. A., in a signed statement, independently confirms this
account of the procedure followed. He states positively —
and indeed this seems to be the common experience in cases
of automatism — that though the writings were produced
by his hand he had no knowledge of their nature or purport.
He adds also that his normal attention was diverted to other
matters and that promiscuous conversation at these times was
the rule.
As for the script itself, after a few vague generalities the
first result of moment was the drawing by J. A.’s uncon­
scious hand, of several rough outlines. One of these which
was clearly intended for a plan of the Abbey Church en­
closed the signature “Gulielmus Monachus.” But it exhibited
one very striking feature. At the east end, beyond the choir
274 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
and high altar, it showed a chapel of large size, almost as
long as the choir itself. Of this chapel no trace existed above
ground and the excavations of 1904 had revealed nothing.
Professor Willis and one or two earlier historians of the
Abbey had conjectured that there was a central chapel here
with others on each side but they had imagined nothing on
a scale comparable at all to that now unexpectedly suggested.
During the ensuing sittings in the winter of 1907-1908,
further details were given in the script, partly in ungram­
matical Latin, partly in English — the communicators pur­
porting to be for the most part monks of the ancient Abbey.
The information was given that the chapel was the capella
Beati Edgari, that it had been built by Abbot Beere (c. 1509)
and extended by the last abbot, the martyr, Richard Whit­
ing. The dimensions were more or less clearly indicated, it
was stated to have been built in four bays, and the vaulting
and glazing were described with some minuteness. In May,
1908, the excavations began, and when these were persevered
with, foundations were disclosed at the east end of the choir
corresponding in all respects to the indications of the script.
This is the sum and substance of Mr. Bond’s volume, though
he has supplemented this particular piece of research with
some other psychic communications of interest, connected
with Glastonbury, which were obtained through the same
channel. These last are concerned mainly with the Loreto
chapel, built by Abbot Beere somewhere about the year 1520,
and with the personal history and character of a certain
monk Johannes. Johannes, we may note incidentally, though
one of the most copious of the supposed communicators, is
described as still in Purgatory, “ My punishment is past,”
the monk Gulielmus informs us, “but Johannes is yet in
pain.”
As may be inferred from what has already been said, not
A k
" THE GATE OF REM EM BRANCE 275
a few of the communications written down by the hand of
J. A., profess to emanate from some member of the
Glastonbury community. Sometimes they are signed with
a name, sometimes the authorship is suggested by the script
itself. Thus we have, for example, what purports to be the
Abbot Beere’s own account of the marvellous escape from
death which led him while travelling in Italy to bind him­
self by vow to build a chapel to Our Lady of Loreto on his
return. Perhaps this incident will serve as well as any other
to give an idea of the language in which most of the com­
munications are made.
“ Question: What was your vow?”
“ Answer: Know ye not that wee were borne downe by rude men
in foreign parts, and the mule which bore me fell, for I was a grete
and heavy man. And being like to fall down a steepe place or be
trampled by ye mule, I called on Our Lady and shee heard me, soe
that my cloke catching on a thorne I was prevented, and then said I:
‘Lo when I return I will build a chapel to Our Lady of the Loreto,’
and soe instant was I in my vowe that the brethren were grieved, for
it was arranged in Chapitre that wee shold build a Chapel to our
Edgare before I went in ye shyppe. Therefore builded I hym first, for
it was a public vowe, but mine owne vowe I fulfilled afterer, and soe
all was well — Yt is given.”
Despite the very personal and sometimes characteristic
form in which these and other communications are made,
F. B. B. and J. A. do not ascribe the authorship to particular
disembodied spirits. We are expressly told that neither of the
experimenters, to use their own words and italics:
“ favoured the ordinary spiritualistic hypothesis which would see in
these phenomena the action of discarnate intelligence from the out­
side upon the physical or nervous organization of the sitters. They
would regard such a view as something like a reversal or turning in­
side out of the truth. But that the embodied consciousness of every in­
dividual is but a part, and a fragmentary part, of a transcendent
whole, and that within the mind of each there is a door through
which Reality may enter as Idea — Idea presupposing a greater, even
276 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a cosmic Memory, conscious or unconscious, active or latent, and em­
bracing not only all individual experience and revivifying forgotten
pages of life, but also Idea involving yet wider fields, transcending
the ordinary limits of time, space and personality — this would be a
better description of the mental attitude of the two friends.” 1
It seems right to quote this out of justice to Mr. Bond and
his fellow researcher, though the theory, to my thinking,
is at best very nebulous and obscure, involving, so far as I
can understand it, an entirely pantheistic conception of the
Universe. The main point, however, which calls for discus­
sion here is not the problem of automatism in general, but
the very plain and practical issue which is raised by the
Glastonbury experiments. Is it a fact that the script written
down automatically by J. A. in 1907 contained information
of a complex character regarding the Abbey church, which
could not then have been known to either of the sitters and
which was subsequently verified by the excavations of 1908
and the following years ?
Let us do Mr. Bond the justice to suppose that in answer­
ing this question in the affirmative he has done his best to
state the facts clearly and honestly. It must be confessed that
on close scrutiny his conclusions seem to me quite unconvinc­
ing, but that he has made out some prima facie case is
beyond dispute, and the summary statement, given in tabular
form on pages 70-78, of the points on which he lays most
stress, is clear and fairly helpful. One would like to re­
produce the whole document as it stands, but considerations
of space render that impossible. It may suffice here to say
that, according to the claim made, the script clearly indicated
the following features:
1. The existence of a large rectangular chapel at the east
end of the Abbey Church.
*The Gate of Remembrance, pp. 19-20; cf. p. 82.
“ THE GATE OF REMEMBRANCE” 277
2. That there was an entrance door at the extreme east
of this chapel some five paces behind the altar.
3. That by this new construction the old church was ex­
tended eastwards for a distance of thirty yards (virga).
4. That the windows were filled with glass of azure blue
(vitrea azurea).
5. That the chapel was vaulted in the new style of tracery.
6. That the chapel terminated eastwards in a polygonal
apse (added to the Edgar chapel after Beere’s death by
Abbot Whiting).
7. That there had been an older polygonal chapel at the
east end of the church, the foundations of which may still be
traced.
8. That there was a stairway with a small crypt under it,
which led from the east end of the church up to the Edgar
chapel, and that the stairway was divided down the middle
by a stone handrail.
9. That the Edgar chapel as planned and constructed by
Abbot Beere was 72 feet in length, built in four bays, also
that the inside width was 27 feet and the outside 34 feet.
These are the main points which have been extracted from
the data of the script (I omit a few minor and more obscure
details) and it is contended that with regard to all these
features the automatic writing of J. A. has been proved veri­
dical by the excavations subsequently carried out. Further­
more, the reader is given to understand that practically no
materials were in existence before May, 1908, which would
naturally point to any such conclusions; whence we are
left to infer that the information is in some strange way
automatically derived from an intelligence outside of this
world, whether we do or do not attach credence to the
profession made in the script that the communicators are
the spirits of the old monks of Glastonbury.
Now it is here that I feel bound to tax Mr. Bligh Bond
278 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
with giving, unintentionally no doubt, a distinctly wrong
impression. It is true he does not suppress any fact. He
mentions (p. 12), though without giving it the emphasis
which such a circumstance seems to claim, that in the six­
teenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, the length of
the old Glastonbury church was set down by the best author­
ities either at 594 feet or at 580 feet. Furthermore, he supplies
a plan to scale (p. 148) from which anyone who takes the
trouble can easily calculate that without the newly discovered
Edgar chapel at the east end the total length of the church
would only be 5x5 feet or rather less.5 But the ordinary reader
does not take the trouble to make such calculations and I am
satisfied that in at least nine cases out of ten those who
peruse this book will go away with the impression that until
}. A. and F. B. B. in 1907 made their experiments in auto­
matic writing and asked questions about the Abbey church
there was absolutely nothing to suggest the existence of a
large chapel at the east end. Mr. Bond gives the fullest prom­
inence to the fact that Sir W. H. St. John Hope’s excavations
in 1904 negatived the supposition of any eastern extension,
he reproduces Willis’s plan, which suggests a twenty-foot
chapel in that position, he mentions Phelps’s conjecture of a
small semicircular apse, but he practically ignores the vital
point that anyone who accepted the measurements of the
church set down in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
(when clear traces and traditions existed which have now
disappeared) must inevitably conclude that seventy or eighty
feet of the total assigned length remained unaccounted for.
But there is more than this. It is admitted that Mr. Bond and
J. A., in the course of 1907, diligently read up the literature
of the subject. Browne Willis, Hearne, Phelps, and Warner
“This may also be gathered from a footnote on page 68, but only very vaguely
and indirectly.
“ THE GATE OF REMEMBRANCE’’ 279
are expressly mentioned among the works which they
studied. Now Browne Willis and Hearne both inform us,
I quote the words of the latter:
“ To be short the length of the church with St. Joseph’s chapel ex­
tended itself 200 paces or 580 feet, which was a greater length, we are
told by Mr. Willis, than any cathedral in England excepting (old)
St. Paul’s.”6
Again both Warner (1826) and Phelps (1836) print a
document in the possession of the Bishop of Bath and Wells
which was drawn up only some fifty years after Henry VIII
seized Glastonbury Abbey. In this we find it explicitly stated
that “ the greate church in ye abbey was in length 594, as
followith:
The chapter house in length
Quier in length
The bodie of ye church in length
Joseph’s chapel in length
h r p * in t n
594
That these measurements are fairly accurate may be
learned from an inspection of Mr. Bond’s own plan, drawn
to scale. He divides it into squares of 74 feet, 74 feet being
the interior width of the nave and choir. The sixteenth-
century document calls the width 75 feet. Surely this is near
enough. Seeing the order in which these items are given,
who can possibly doubt that in the sixteenth century when
these measurements were recorded, there existed at the east
end, beyond the choir and continuous with the church, a
building some 90 feet long here called the “chapter house.”
Even then the building was probably demolished and it is
easily conceivable that the author of the record may have
'Hearne, History and Antiquities of Glastonbury, p. 57. Without the Edgar
chapel this would be quite untrue, as Winchester Cathedral is 548 feet long.
280 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
misunderstood its real character. But such a building must
have existed, and it can have been no other than what we
now know to be the Edgar Chapel, built by Abbot Beere,
as Leland expressly tells us, at the east end of the church.
But as if this were not enough, Warner drives the conclusion
home in the clearest terms. He was undoubtedly quite mis­
taken in suggesting that this 90 feet eastern chapel can have
dated from the time of Abbot Adam, but he at least saw
plainly that the “chapter house” must have been a chapel.
His words are:
“ We may reasonably suppose that he (Abbot Adam de Sodbury,
c. 1330) might add to these evidences of his respect for the holy
Patroness of the abbey, by building and dedicating to her that noble
chapel of go feet in length, which previously to the desecration of
the sacred pile terminated to the east the great church of Glaston
Abbey."1
These words occur in a book expressly named by Mr.
Bond as one which he and J. A. had carefully studied. By
a process of conscious or subconscious inference, they or one
of them rightly draws the conclusion that this building was
not a Lady chapel erected by Abbot Adam, but the Edgar
chapel of Abbot Beere. Then, on November 7, 1907, they sit
down to their experiment in automatism and profess to be
tremendously surprised when in answer to the formal
request, “ Can you tell us anything about Glastonbury?” T
.
A.’s hand draws a rough outline of the abbey church with
a large chapel stretching out from the eastern end of the
choir. Upon application for “ a more careful” drawing, a
second sketch was produced, by no means corresponding
with the conditions afterwards revealed by the excavations,
but quite in accord with the ideas then likely to exist in Mr.
Bond’s subconscious mind, for the oblong Edgar chapel, is
’ R. Warner, History of the Abbey of Glason (1826), p. lxxxvii.
“ THE GATE OF REM EM BRANCE 281
shown with two others on the north side almost on a level
with it, much as in Willis’s conjectural plan, save that the
Edgar chapel is made much larger. To this was added some
rude Latin script not easily decipherable, in which among
other things we read:
et capella extensit 30 virgas ad orientem et (viginti?) in latitudine et
fenestrae (cum) lapide horizontali quod vocatur transóme et vitrea
azurea, et fecit altarium ornatum cum auro et argento et . . . et
tumba ante altarium gloriosa aedificavit ad memoriam Sancti Ed­
gar . . .
“and the chapel extended 30 yards (i.e., 90 feet) to the east and (?2o)
in width, and there were windows with a horizontal stone which is
called a transóme in windows of azure blue, and he made an altar
adorned with gold and silver and . . . and he built a glorious tomb
before the altar to the memory of St. Edgar.”
Here we find exactly reproduced the (somewhat inac­
curate) estimate of 90 feet, standing in Warner and Phelps.
Moreover the mention of Edgar’s tomb and altar recalls the
extract, printed by Phelps on the very same page, from “An
Inventory of the Chambers, Offices, etc., (at Glastonbury)
taken about the time of the Reformation.”
“ in the new chapel a very ffaire toomb of King Edgar, copper gilt.
The altar being set with images all gilt.”8
So far, therefore, as regards the simple fact of the discovery
of the Edgar chapel, I can see no reason for invoking the
action of any supermundane intelligence. Mr. Bond and J.
A., being duly impressed with the fact that the present ruins
of the Abbey Church are some 80 or 90 feet short of the
length assigned to the building in the sixteenth century,
drew the inference, consciously or subconsciously, just as
Warner had drawn it before them, that there must formerly
have been at the east end a big chapel of which no trace now
*The whole is printed in Phelps, History of Somersetshire (1836) I, p. 549;
cf. also Collinson and Dugdale.
282 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
remains above ground. Small wonder that in their automatic
script this impression reveals itself, and is further decorated,
through what for want of a better word one may call “the
dream faculty,” with the more or less fantastic embellish­
ments usual in such cases. Their inference is perfectly sound,
indeed obvious. They dig and the foundations are discovered
as anticipated. What is more, the foundations brought to light
fit in fairly well with the imaginative details given in the
script. If there had been acute divergence the public would
never have heard a word about the matter. As, however, they
can be made to harmonize, a great claim is put forward for
those automatic communications as messages from another
world.
I should like to undertake a minute discussion of the
whole list of alleged correspondences between the script and
the results of excavation, which Mr. Bond sets down under
so many heads, but there is no room for that here. My gen­
eral answer must be, that beyond the central fact of the dis­
covery of the foundations of a chapel some 80 or 90 feet in
length, and of proportionate width, hardly any of the details
set down rest upon reliable evidence. The script says there
was a door at the east end, and Mr. Bond accordingly
professes to have found traces of a door, but the only
evidence for it is a gap in the foundations near the extremity
of the apse. Such a conclusion is highly uncertain. It would
be ridiculous to suppose that at every point in a ruined build­
ing where foundations cannot be traced there was formerly
a means of egress, and on the other hand, Mr. Bond’s own
plans of the western portion of the same abbey church show
that in the earlier work the footings were continued under
the entrance archway, the west cloister door, etc.9 Similarly,
®See the coloured plate in Somersetshire Archceologieal Soc. Proceedings for
“ THE GATE OF REMEMBRANCE’’ 283
there is no adequate evidence to show that the Edgar chapel
was adorned with windows of azure blue. Mr. Bond states
that this is “proved by the discovery of numerous fragments
of blue glass in the trenches” (p. 72). But first of all the azure
glass discovered in the trenches was thirteenth-century
glass in the foundations of a sixteenth-century chapel, so that
Mr. Bond has to assume that “this glass was probably refitted
from the windows of the earlier work altered or removed
by successive abbots,” a very gratuitous supposition. Again,
the account he gives of this glass in the Proceedings (1909,
p. 109) hardly accords with the statement just quoted. In
1909, speaking of one particular point at the extremity of the
apse, he says that “a few small remains of encaustic tile and
glass were gleaned from the mass — but nothing consider­
able. Some of the glass was of a different nature to that
which had previously been encountered being much thicker
and of a beautiful azure-blue colour.” Now when this was
written, Mr. Bond had already carefully explored all the
foundations and trenches of the Edgar chapel. Hence, we
are compelled to infer that a very small proportion of this
blue glass was found in comparison with the remnants of
ordinary glass. Moreover, he himself suggests that this partic­
ular spot at the extremity of the apse had been dug up and
rifled about 1813 in the time of the antiquary Kerrich. This
alone would account for the disappearance of the founda­
tions at that spot without any theory of an eastern doorway.10
And once again Mr. Bond, writing in 1917, agrees very ill
with what he said in 1909 in the matter of the polygonal
apse. In 1909 he declared that before the eastern extremity
of the chapel had been excavated, he conjecturally sketched
a polygonal apse rather than a round one because “the former
shape was more consonant with the sixteenth-century prac-
l°Proceeditigs of the Somerset Archeological Society (1909), p. 109.
284 t h e ch u r c h a n d spiritualism
tice in building.” 11 But in 19 17, w hen he wants to impress
his readers w ith the supernorm al quality of the automatic
script, he assures them that there was no data existing “ from
which the probability of a polygonal ending could be in­
ferred.” 12 These tw o statements, I submit, cannot possibly
hang together. Further, there is another piece of evidence
to be considered w hich bears upon the question of the apse.
From a late eighteenth-century m ap recently found among
the papers of Col. W . Lon g, it appears that some tradition
or sketch existed at that time w hich showed the Edgar
chapel, expressly recognised it as such, gave approximately
its correct length (87 feet) and indicated roughly its polyg­
onal apse. T h is plan seems to have been drafted in con­
nexion w ith some sale of property and it is certainly later
than 17 5 1.13 It is true that M r. Bond and J. A . declare that
they knew nothing of the plan in question until 1910, long
after the automatic script had been written down, but can
they be quite sure that no other sim ilar sketch had ever come
to the know ledge of one or other of them and been photo­
graphed upon the subconscious m em ory, though normally
all recollection of the circumstance had perished? T o be
brief, I can see nothing in all these details of the script which
M r. Bond claim s to be veridical, e.g., the four bays, the
approxim ately correct w idth, the fan vaulting, the polygonal
apse, etc., but a series of fairly lucky conjectures which any
expert in architectural history m ight easily m ake, given the
prim ary fact that a chapel some 90 feet in length had been
constructed by Abbots Beere and W hiting in that particular
situation.
It w ill be understood that I in no w ay im pugn the good
11Proceedings of the Somersetshire Archeological Soc. (1909), p. 105.
l,Gate of Remembrance, p. 72.
'I t is reproduced in the Proceedings of the Somersetshire Archeological Soc.
(19 16 ), pp. 113 - 15 .
“ THE GATE OF REMEM BRANCE 285
faith of either of the sitters, but I may admit that two circum­
stances impel me to scrutinize very closely the logical basis
of the claims they have put forward. The first is the fact
that Mr. Bligh Bond stands confessed as a believer in all
sorts of cabalistic imaginings connected with the numerical
equivalents of Greek and Aramaic words. He holds that pro­
found mysteries underlie the fact that the letters of St. Peter’s
name, Cephas (K
v
<
f>
a^, i.e., * = 20, v = S, <
t
>= 500, a = 1,
a — 200), give us the number 729 — 9 X 9 X 9, the perfect
cube — and by treating a number of other prominent New
Testament words in the same way, inserting an article here,
changing a spelling there, or modifying an inflexion some­
where else, he shows that one can arrive at the most wonder­
ful parallelisms and correspondences. I must confess that
after a serious attempt to make acquaintance with his book,
the whole system appears to me just as crazy and perverse
as anything I have ever read in the supposed Bacon-Shake-
speare ciphers, or in the attempts to date the coming of
Armageddon and Antichrist. Yet Mr. Bond can discourse
to would-be disciples as follows:
“ The discovery in the Gematria of the Greek Scriptures of in­
dubitable traces of a coherent and consistent teaching in harmony
with the exoteric expression of the Christian dogma and forming a
definite circle between the theology of the Sacred Books and that
wonderful scheme of imagery and symbolism of an architectural or
geometrical nature with which the Gnostic Books abound, and which
is so evident in Scriptures, gives point to that outstanding fact in the
story of the life of Jesus that He was trained as a Carpenter or
Builder (Tekton) and suggests that behind this natural and outward
fact there lies a mystery, viz., that He in His Divine Personality was
the builder of the /Tons (Heb. i. 2), and that the knowledge which
He gave His Church was the knowledge of those principles by which
the worlds were made.” (Heb. xi. 3.)14
“ Bond and Lea, A Preliminary Investigation of the Cabala, pp. 3, 4. As might
be expected, there are obvious traces of this “ gematria” nonsense in the script;
see, e.g., The Gate of Remembrance, p. 147.
286 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Secondly, I must confess that the pseudo-archaic English
in which most of the script is written puts me quite out of
sympathy with the supposed communicators and their liv­
ing intermediaries. It is English which no generation of men
dwelling in these islands ever spoke, but it is the sort of
English that I can imagine a very careless and ill-trained
student of our early literature using in his dreams, if he be­
lieved he was called upon to address Henry VIII or Thomas
Cromwell in the language current at that period. We have
impossible forms like I ybuilded and numberless past parti­
ciples with the y prefix like ybuttressed or yvaulted quite out
of date in Tudor England. Then over and over again we
find talk about “fanne-tracery” and “ fannes” ; yet the New
English Dictionary gives no example of this architectural
use of the words older than the first part of the nineteenth
century. Certainly in all the documents cited by Sir W. St.
John Hope in connexion with the vaulting of St. George’s
chapel in his great work on Windsor Castle the term does
not occur. But most noticeable of all, the language of the
monks about the domestic concerns of the community and
particularly about their paternosters is quite impossible. For
example: “ I didde paternosters for that which wasne my
sinne,” or “Ye pulpitte was silent — not homilies, but the
brethren did list to songs of prowess and pleasure instead of
paternosters.” Medieval monks did not “ listen to” pater­
nosters. In fine, whatever the intelligence may be which
professes to communicate, it can hardly expect to gain
credence for revelations couched in language which is itself
an obvious sham.
If I have reprinted this criticism, which appeared orig­
inally in The Month (London, March, 1918), it is because
Mr. Bligh Bond’s book has had a great vogue among those
who would persuade us that valuable information concern-
THE GATE OF REMEMBRANCE” 287
ing history may be communicated by the spirits through
automatic writing. The Gate of Remembrance has gone
through several editions and has been acclaimed as a surpris­
ing revelation of facts inaccessible to ordinary methods of
research. I submit, on the other hand, that there is not one
verifiable item contained in the volume which was not
ascertainable from the written and published materials
already within reach, especially when conjoined with the
fragments of wrought masonry belonging to the old minster
which the authors had carefully studied. Enthusiasts have
fallen in love with the character, as revealed in the script,
of that “child of nature” Brother Johannes. Such people,
however, can hardly be familiar with the best achievements
of modern automatism. Johannes, with his fantastic forms of
speech, is simply a dream personality, not so artistic and
by no means so convincing a creation as, for example, the
Hope Trueblood of Patience Worth™
It would only weary the reader to devote more space to the
shallow pretensions of the Bligh Bond script. It has been
backed up by other still more extravagant scripts under the
same editorship which deal with St. Joseph of Arimathea
and other Glastonbury fictions. My criticism of The Gate of
Remembrance which is reproduced above, was written only
a few weeks after the book was sent for review. But after
a protracted investigation, the Rev. H. J. Wilkins, D.D., an
expert antiquary, possessing the necessary local knowledge,
published a much more thorough refutation of Mr. Bond’s
assumption of preternatural guidance. It is entitled False
Psychical Claims in “ The Gate of Remembrance” concerning
Glastonbury Abbey. It was brought out by Arrowsmiths of
‘“Sec on Patience Worth the important volume of Dr. W. Franklin Prince
The Case of Patience Worth — A Critical Study of Certain Unusual Phenomena
(2nd ed.) published by the Boston Society for Psychical Research.
288 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Bristol in 1922, and a second and enlarged edition appeared
in 1923. From this latter I borrow one significant passage
which with the author’s own italics is printed under the
heading “ Conclusion.”
"In my opinion there is absolutely nothing supermundane in the
whole of the script, and no room for ‘cosmic memory’ (whatever
may be the definition of that vague postulate), or for discarnate
monks or other discarnate entities. There is no message from 'within
the veil.’ All that is true in the script could be gathered from his­
torical data or reasonably conjectured by intelligent observation of
existing facts and conditions and reproduced in automatic script by
the subconscious mind.”
It will be known to some of my readers that a schism
took place a few years since in the American Society for
Psychical Research. The more critical members of that body
broke away and formed the Boston Society for Psychical
Research. Mr. Bligh Bond, who has apparently made a sacri­
fice of his career as architect in England, now acts as
“editor” to the New York organisation and conducts their
periodical, which appears under the name of Psychic
Research.
Chapter XIV
TH E SCRIPT OF OSCAR W ILDE
W hen Fénelon, before he became Archbishop of Cambrai,
wrote his Dialogues des Morts for the instruction of his royal
pupil, he assuredly had no suspicion that in the course of a
century or two the shades of the nether world would need
no one to interpret their thoughts for them, but would claim
to be able to communicate direct with the friends who were
still living on earth. Rightly or wrongly, however, this is the
claim which has been advanced by spiritualists for now
something more than eighty years. The earliest printed
script which is extant dates from the close of 1851 : but for
my own part I believe that, though not recognised as such,
automatic writing is older than the time of Fénelon himself.
There is, for example, much to suggest that the collection of
revelations known as the Mistica Ciudad de Dios, by the
Spanish Abbess, Maria Coronel de Agreda, were produced
in this way.
This question, however, is beside our present purpose. I
will only mention that since 1852 there have been literally
hundreds of books published which purport to embody com­
munications received from spirits in the other world either
through automatic writing, planchette, or the ouija board.
Such publications have multiplied enormously, of course, in
recent years; but from the very first they formed a type of
literature which is in an extraordinary degree tedious and
futile. Between the Scylla of dreary platitude and the
Charybdis of flippant puerilities no way seems to have been
289
290 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
left open to the unfortunate spirit which desires to com­
municate from the au delà. Some rather striking messages
have been received through living-voice mediums, for the
most part not long after the death of those who purported
to speak; but when great names in the literary world have
attempted to rival their earth achievements the results have
been deplorable. Mr. Stainton Moses, who is regarded by
many spiritualists (Sir A. Conan Doyle among the rest) as
an inspired teacher, many years ago protested against “the
prevalence of illiterate Shakespeares and twaddling Sweden­
borgs,” declaring that the use of such names afforded strong
presumptive evidence that “ the intelligent operator at the
other end of the line is not in all cases the person he pretends
to be.” 1 I have spoken in an earlier chapter of the complete
oblivion into which the mediumistic writings have fallen
which purported to come from the spirits of Ariosto and
Charles Dickens. Years ago Horace Greeley, who was very
intimately connected with the early developments of the
spiritualist movement in the United States, laid it down as
an axiom of experience and as a serious argument against
the authenticity of such communications, that “ those who
claim through the mediums to be Shakespeare, Milton,
Byron, etc., and try to prove it by writing poetry, invariably
come to grief. I cannot recall a line of ‘spiritual’ poetry that
is not weak, if not execrable” ; and he goes on to anticipate
that “Martin Farquhar Tupper, appalling as the prospect is,
will be dribbling worse rhymes upon us after death than
even he perpetrated while on earth.”2
And now, after so many years of frustrated expectation,
there comes at last some script which has a distinct literary
1Spirit Identity, p. 41. It is a curious fact that the control who was Stainton
Moses's special, guide and who purported to communicate many hundred pages
of script, claimed to be no less a person than the Prophet Malachy.
’Greeley, Recollections of a Busy Life, p. 240.
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 291
quality and which appears to be not unworthy of the brilliant
writer from whom it purports to emanate.3 A gentleman
who was at first known only as Mr. V. had for some time
wished to develop the power of automatic writing. He was
advised to seek the help of Mrs. Travers Smith who had had
a large experience in this branch of psychic research. At first
Mr. V. made little progress, but when Mrs. Travers Smith
laid her hand on his while he held the pencil, the pencil
began to write intelligent messages. But I will leave Mrs.
Travers Smith herself tell the story of what happened on the
afternoon of June 8, 1923:
“ As we sat down to write, Mr. V. said that he would like to keep
his eyes closed, if that made no difference. I was pleased at the sug­
gestion, as on several occasions I had found that this desire to work
blindfold or with closed eyes had produced remarkable results. Almost
immediately the pencil began to tap on the paper, then to move quite
vigorously. The writing came in detached words as in normal hand­
writing. . . . A few sentences were written by the same communi­
cator who had spoken on the last occasion. The message referred to
his daughter Lily. When her name was written I was sensible of a
change, a sudden interruption; the pace became quicker, the pencil
wrote: ‘No, the lily is mine, not his’; and I asked ‘Who is speaking?’
‘Oscar Wilde’ was written immediately. As this message continued
I looked at Mr. V., his eyes were closed and he seemed quite un­
conscious of what he was doing. I took my hand off his for a few
moments; the writing ceased at once, the pencil tapping on the paper
impatiently. I put my hand on again, and the message continued. It
was written so rapidly that it was entirely impossible for me to follow
it, and the hand of Mr. V. was so firmly controlled that I found it
very difficult to move it, from the end of one line to the beginning
of the next.4
’“ Patience Worth’s" communications were earlier in date than the Oscar Wilde
script, and I have no thought of denying their literary distinction, but they did
not purport to emanate from a personality already famous as a writer of rec­
ognized merit. We know nothing of Patience Worth.
*Psychic Science (the Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic
Science), Vol. II, p. 205.
292 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
What the hand wrote was this:
Lily, my little Lily — No, the lily was mine — a crystal thread — a
silver reed that made music in the morning. Pity Oscar Wilde —
one who in the world was a thing of life. Bound to Ixion’s wheel of
thought, I must complete for ever the circle of my experience. Long
ago I wrote that there was twilight in my cell and twilight in my
heart; but this is the last twilight of the soul. In eternal twilight I
move, but I know that in the world there is day and night, seedtime
and harvest, and red sunset must follow apple-green dawn. Every
year spring throws her green veil over the world and anon the red
autumn glory comes to mock the yellow moon.5
There are a good many more flashes of vivid description
in the same manner, which is characteristically Wilde’s. We
are told how: “ Soon the chestnuts will light their white
candles and the foxgloves flaunt their dappled dropping
bells.” The communicator insists that few now “can hear
the flute voice of beauty calling on the hills, or mark where
her white feet brush the dew from the cowslips in the morn­
ing” ; while he boasts at the same time that “there was not
a blood stripe on a tulip, or a curve on a shell, or a tone on
the sea but had for me its meaning and its mystery and its
appeal to the imagination.”
As Mrs. Travers Smith pointed out, the words “twilight in
my cell and twilight in my heart” are an actual quotation
from De Profundis, and in the same work we read: “There
is not a single colour hidden away in the chalice of a flower
or the curve of a shell to which, by some subtle sympathy
with the soul of things, my nature does not answer.”
I think it will be admitted by those who are familiar with
Wilde’s descriptive prose, apt at times to be rather flam­
boyant and overornate, that this is, to say the least, a remark­
ably good parody. Moreover, the startling impression thus
made was reinforced by another surprising circumstance —
“See The Occult Review, August, 1923, p. 79.
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 293
the handwriting though rapid and intense, closely resembled
Wilde’s. There are several facsimiles of the script given in
the articles which appeared in Psychic Science, and by the
kindness of Mrs. Travers Smith I was allowed to inspect at
her house several specimens of the script itself. On the other
hand, the British Museum possesses the original manuscripts
of some of Wilde’s plays and poems.6 I have also consulted
these and there can be no possible question as to the close
resemblance between the two, or indeed of the fact that the
script aims at reproducing Wilde’s handwriting. He had a
curious trick of substituting a Greek a for the ordinary small
English a. This feature appears and is almost exaggerated in
the script. Even more striking perhaps is the general character
of the hand and the way in which letters belonging to the
same word are separated from one another.
But let us turn to another specimen of the communications
received, this being obtained on June 18,1923, in the presence
of Mr. Dingwall, at that time research officer of the Society
for Psychical Research, a gentleman well known to me:
“ Being dead is the most boring experience in life. That is if one
excepts being married or dining with a schoolmaster. Do you doubt
my identity? I am not surprised, since sometimes I doubt it myself. I
might retaliate by doubting yours. I have always admired the Society
for Psychical Research. They are the most magnificent doubters in the
world. They are never happy until they have explained away their
species, and one suspects a genuine ghost would make them ex­
quisitely uncomfortable. I have sometimes thought of founding an
academy of celestial doubters . . . which might be a sort of Society
for Psychical Research among the living. No one under sixty would
be admitted, and we should call ourselves the Society of Superan­
nuated Shades. Our first object might well be to insist on investigat­
ing at once into the reality of (say) Mr. Dingwall. Mr. Dingwall —
is he romance or reality? Is he fact or fiction? If it should be decided
that he is fact, then of course we should strenuously doubt it. For-
'MSS. Additional 37942 to 37948.
294 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tunately there are no facts over here. On earth we could hardly es­
cape them. Their dead carcasses were strewn everywhere on the rose
path of life. One could not pick up a newspaper without learning
something useful. In it were some sordid statistics of crime or dis­
gusting details relating to the consumption of pork that met the eyes,
or we were told with a precision that was perfectly appalling and total­
ly unnecessary . . . what time the moon had decided to be jealous
and eclipse the sun.” 7
Those who have read Oscar Wilde’s most amusing story
called the Canterville Ghost can hardly fail to be reminded
of the attitude of mind in which the writer approaches the
subject. He looks upon the situation mainly from the point
of view of the ghost, whose feelings are outraged by the
American family who have bought his ancestral mansion.
He is dreadfully upset when his carefully prepared and
many times rehearsed effects fail to come off. He clanks his
chains in the corridor at i a.m. and the American, Mr. Otis,
comes out to present him with a small bottle of “Tammany’s
Champion Lubricator,” remarking politely: “My dear Sir, I
really must insist upon your oiling those chains with this
excellent preparation” ; and above all he is frightened out of
his wits when he encounters in a dark corner the bogey, con­
structed by the children out of a night light, a hollow turnip,
a sheet, and a broomstick, which proves upon further inspec­
tion to bear the label, “Ye onlie true and original Otis spook.”
There are many brilliant flashes in the Wilde script which
are quite in the tone of cynical paradox which runs through
such an essay as “The Decay of Lying.” Take, for instance,
the following, which was obtained by Mr. V. when working
with another medium, a Mrs. L., who, I understand, is not
identical with the famous Mrs. Osborn Leonard:
“ Mrs. L., much excited, remarks to ‘Mr. V .’ : ‘You know I am not
guiding your hand! I am perfecdy honest.’ The hand wrote im­
mediately:
'Occult Review, August, 1923, p. 81.
TH E SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 295
“ ‘Honesty, madam, may be the best policy for the grocer, but it is
the very worst for a woman with a past.’
“ Mrs. L.: ‘Oscar Wilde! How dare you! What can you know of
my life?’
“ ‘Pray don’t be angry. . . . Charming women always have a past,
and plain women never have a future.’
“ Mrs. L.: ‘Thanks for the compliment, but I assure you I have been
very moderate in my follies, very moderate indeed.’ ”
“ . . . ‘Ah! moderation! We do in moderation the things we don’t
like, and in excess . . . the things other people don’t like us to do.
That is all.’ ”
On the other hand, there is a great deal in the Wilde script
which is of more serious nature, though it largely takes the
form of extravagant self-pity and of lamentations over his
present helpless condition. He declares that: “like Achilles
in Homer, I would sooner be the poorest ploughman on
earth than lord of all the astral realms.”8 “When we come
to you,” he tells his automatists, “it is as poor stowaways, un­
invited guests, who must perforce wait in the back room
while the rightful owner makes merry in the lighted halls.”
Or again: “We strum out our mean music on borrowed,
broken lyres.”9His language at times suggests a condition of
things like that of the “unclean spirit that is gone out of man
and which walketh through places without water seeking
rest” (Luke xi. 24). It almost loses its own individuality in
passing from one shelter to another. “We become a sort of
mental snowball, rolling through eternity and ever gather­
ing fresh accretions from the brains through which we travel.
Our minds become coloured as moorland streams are by the
beds of peat or porcelain clay over which they pass.”
Certain it is that the messages of the supposed Oscar Wilde
are perceptibly influenced by the range of knowledge and
8Occult Review, November, 1932, p. 275.
*Ibiâ., p. 271.
296 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
interests of the mediums concerned. With Mr. V. who is a
mathematical and scientific lecturer, we get many allusions
to astronomical and botanical names and facts. When Mrs.
Travers Smith received communications from Wilde un­
assisted, through the ouija board, all these disappeared and
we were in a more directly literary atmosphere. When Mrs.
Travers Smith’s daughter, who is an artist, intervened, we
get a tirade against Whistler. When another medium, Miss
MacGregor, collaborated with Mr. V., we note a strong
theosophical colouring and such strange psychology as the
following: “The soul is no indivisible unity, no solitary
shadow seated in its house of sin. It is a thing highly com­
plex, built up layer upon layer, shell within shell, even as
the little brown bulb of the hyacinth that thrusts out green
shoots from the darkness.” Everyone who has any acquaint­
ance with Madame Blavatsky’s “Isis Unveiled” will remem­
ber how frequently she comes back to this notion of shells.
A large infusion of extremely vivid imagery seems to be
common to all the scripts independently of the particular
mediums employed. Here is a passage which would not be
out of place in a mission sermon descriptive of the worm
of conscience as it prays upon the imagination of the lost:
A stage is set, and to the hollow music of the drums of doom,
masked puppets, in horrible mimicry, play before us the drama of
our lives. Missed Opportunities press their mocking faces close to us.
Half forgotten long-dead things crawl from their graves and gibber
at us — slow-creeping things, trailing dreadful slimy shrouds. Desire
stoops over her ashes and with scorched hands seeks to fan up the old
flame. Death and Old Time look on and mock her with blackened
grinning skulls. When she sees them she creeps wearily away. Re­
morse, a gaunt vulture, red-eyed and leprous winged, watches from
the air.10
Some part of the script has an evidential character, notably
10Occult Review, November, p. 272.
TH E SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 297
a communication, the original of which I have seen, and
which, if I mistake not, came through Mrs. Travers Smith’s
daughter working with Mr. V.11 The supposed Oscar was
asked to recall early memories, and the hand wrote down
among other things:
“ McCree, Cree, no, that’s not the name. Glencree, where we stayed
with Willie and Iso, and there was a good old man who used to look
after our lessons a priest, Father Prid, Prideau.”
It seems certain that no one present knew anything of
Oscar’s sister Isola, who died as a child, and there was
nothing whatever to suggest any connexion between the
Wilde family and Glencree; but strangely enough, as Mr.
V.’s brother has since pointed out, the priest referred to,
Father L. C. Prideaux Fox, O.M.I., contributed an article
to Donahoe’s Magazine for May, 1905, in which he men­
tions that Lady Wilde and her children used to stay at
Glencree, that she asked Father Prideaux Fox to instruct
the three children (whose names, however, are not given)
and that he baptised all three of them.12 It is also interesting,
though certainly not evidential, to find the communicator
replying in answer to a question about his mother in the
world of shades: “Yes, I have seen her. She has not really
improved in the process of dying. She is less comely now
than when ‘Speranza’ used to lead the Intelligentsia in
Dublin in those days when we had still the relics of civil­
ization among us.” At the same time, when, on another
occasion, a disparaging remark was made about Lady Wilde
as “a half crazy old woman who thought she could write
” It is a curious fact that when Mrs. Travers Smith’s daughter replaced her
mother in laying her hand on that of Mr. V., the writing which resulted was
the same in character, but enormously magnified.
’’See Psychic Science, Vol. II, January, p. 322. This seems to be a mistake. An
Irish friend took the trouble to examine the registers of the neighbouring
churches but could find no trace of these baptisms.
298 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
poetry” the hand at once scrawled: “Please do not insult my
mother; I loved and honoured her.”
But the reader will probably ask, may not the whole thing
be a fake, a practical joke? Would it not have been easy
for Mr. V. to write or to procure some clever parodies of
Oscar Wilde’s dithyrambs and inverted aphorisms, to learn
them by heart, to study and carefully practise his hand­
writing, and then, after a pretence of unsuccessful experi­
ments in automatism, to invoke the assistance of Mrs.
Travers Smith, and at the psychological moment to pour
them out at lightning speed for the mystification of the
credulous? One point that might seem to favour this con­
clusion is the fact that though Mr. V. has given to those
who have met him the impression of being quite unliterary,
he really possesses a remarkable capacity for just that sort
of pictorial description which is conspicuous in the script.
His brother prints a letter of his, written from camp during
the War, which might quite well have emanated from Oscar
Wilde himself, and which actually contains a half sentence
almost identical with one reproduced above (p. ----- ), I
italicise the phrase in question:
“ Here is no ruddy autumn glory to moc\ the yellow moon, but
great empty spaces and windy skies filled at sunset with slate and
smouldering crimson.” 13
Seeing that we did not at first even know Mr. V.’s name,
one felt bound to face the hypothesis that he might be play­
ing a trick, and that when he professed ignorance of Wilde’s
life and writings, he was not quite sincere. If a clever man
MP sych ic S cien ce, January, 1924, p. 315. Mr. V.’s brother further states that
Mr. V., took every prize in literature at school and on leaving school hesitated
whether to read for honours in English or in Mathematics (p. 313). It is now
no secret that Mr. V., was the pseudonym chosen by Mr. S. G. Soal, M.A. and
B.Sc., who as a Science Master in a public institution thought it more prudent
to conceal his identity. A very remarkable paper of his appears in Proceedings
S .P .R ., Vol. XXXV, pp. 471-594-
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 299
set himself to the task, it would have been very easy to get
up beforehand a few details and such names as Glencree,
Prideaux, and that of Oscar’s little sister.
However, I must confess that such an elaborate mystifica­
tion seems to me on the whole, improbable; first, because in
view of the amount of script obtained through Mr. V. and
the rapidity with which it came, the effort of memory would
have been a very astounding feat; secondly, because when
questions were asked it would have been difficult to foresee
them and provide Wildian answers beforehand; but thirdly,
and more particularly, because Mrs. Travers Smith, un­
assisted, obtained script through the ouija board which
equally purported to come from Oscar Wilde and which
was said to be not inferior in quality.14 Of Mrs. Travers
Smith’s honesty I can entertain no doubt. She makes no exag­
gerated claims for the script, and I have heard Sir William
Barrett and others who knew her intimately speak of her
with much respect.
The script, then, seems to be authentic in the sense that
it was produced without any conscious deception on the part
of the mediums concerned. Whether it has for its author the
disembodied spirit of Oscar Wilde is quite a different ques­
tion. Space fails me to discuss the problem as fully as might
be desirable, but one or two considerations may be outlined
which strongly point to a negative answer.
And to begin with, the burden of proof in all such cases
must rest entirely with the claimant. It has hitherto been
,4I have not seen a sufficient number of specimens to form any judgment my­
self as to its literary value. Much of this ouija script came at a prodigious rate —
3,000 words in an hour. Many of the supposed Oscar Wilde criticisms upon
contemporaries, notably upon Mr. George Moore and, what is more surprising,
upon Mr. G. K. Chesterton, were of such a character that wholesale expurgation
was necessary as legal opinion pronounced them libellous. Besides these causeries,
the same communicator produced a play, but, if I am not mistaken, no theatrical
manager has ventured to put it on the stage.
TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
300
the belief of educated mankind diat the dead return no
more, at any rate that they do not come back to pay off old
scores by libelling those against whom they may cherish a
grudge. A rather terrible prospect would open out if a
different economy prevailed. Also one cannot help feeling
that there must be many millions on the other side who
would have a good deal to say about the things they dis­
approve of in this world, if by any possibility they could
make their voice heard and get people to listen to them.
Assuming, then, that we are justified in refusing to rec­
ognize the identity of the communicator, unless his claim is
convincingly made out, it is to be noted that the special
interest of the Wilde case lies in this, that the evidence is
public and can be tested by everyone for himself. If I am
told that there is good evidence for the identity of the
American known as “George Pelham” or the English lady
“ Blanche Abercrombie,” who communicated years ago
through Mrs. Piper and Mr. Stainton Moses, respectively,13
this may be true, but I have to take other people’s word for
it. I know nothing about either of them personally; I do not
even know their real names. But when it is a question of
Oscar Wilde, I can read the script and consult his works
and his life, and also I can study his handwriting and com­
pare it with that produced by Mr. V. If this resemblance
settled the matter, I should have no choice but to say that
the script probably did come from Oscar Wilde. But does
it settle the matter?
For those who accept ordinary Catholic teaching I am
inclined to urge that no amount of evidence can bring
conviction of the identity of any purporting communicator.
In the penny Catechism which I learned in my childhood
“ Both these cases are quite fully stated in Sir Oliver Lodge’s The Survival of
Man and in F. W. Myers’ Human Personality.
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 301
the question is asked: “How can we show that the angels
and saints know what passes on earth?” In answer to which,
reference is made to the text in St. Luke: “There shall be
joy before the angels of God on one sinner doing penance.”
Obviously there would be no purpose in praying to angels
or saints if they did not know that we were praying or did
not know what it is we ask. Many — I think most — devout
Catholics believe that this knowledge is shared by the souls
in purgatory; indeed, for all we know, it may be the common
and necessary attribute of all disembodied spirits, including
the souls of the lost, that they possess a telepathic and clair­
voyant knowledge of distant occurrences — of everything, in
fact, to which their attention is turned. What I am anxious
to insist on is that while the belief that disembodied spirits
know what passes on earth is perfectly familiar to Cath­
olics, it impresses the non-Catholic public as a new discovery
or a rash hypothesis. If a man seals up a ring, a coin, and a
letter in a packet and dies without ever revealing the secret
of the contents to any living person, such people are apt to
assume that when through a medium or by any other means
a correct description of the objects in the packet is given
before it is opened, such information must necessarily come
from the spirit of the dead man himself.10 On the other
hand, any normally instructed Catholic child would find no
difficulty in believing that myriads of intelligences in the
other world may know what the packet contains and what
is written in the letter, just as well as the person who affixed
the seals. While I do not say that this can be proved to the
satisfaction of the sceptic, I do emphatically say that it is
impossible to prove the contrary.
Now, once admit that all that we do or say can be known
’“This case is definitely propounded in Mr. E. F. Benson’s sketch entitled
Up a n d Down (19 19 ).
302 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
to intelligences not trammelled by the conditions of existence
in the flesh, then it seems to me necessarily to follow that no
quite conclusive proof of identity can ever be given by a dis­
embodied spirit. Every fact that it recalls concerning its own
previous existence may be equally matter of knowledge to
other intelligences, some, it may be, good and friendly, some
malicious, some freakish. There can be no secret in those
worlds beyond the grave regarding anything which has
happened in the soul’s past life. The possession by some
purporting communicator of what may seem knowledge of
a most private and exclusive kind belonging to him alone
is no guarantee at all that he is really the person he pretends
to be. If during his earth life he hid away an important paper
in a secret drawer and never disclosed the fact to anyone,
there may be numberless spirits in the other world, both
good and evil, who either observed the occurrence when it
happened, or have been able to learn of it since from the
minds of those who did. If they, for any motive, think well
to personate the deceased, there is no limit to the amount
of correct information they may give concerning his past —
supposing always that they choose to “get up” the case as
a lawyer gets up his brief.
Again, the imitation of the handwriting tells us nothing,
startling as the fact must appear at first blush. It is not the
dead man’s fingers that hold the pen, nor his muscles which
are working according to the habit which they have acquired
through years of sitting at the desk. The whole process is,
of necessity, a simulation, whatever may be the agency that
is responsible for it. The same is true with regard to the
voice, accent, and phraseology of the dead which are repro­
duced in the hearing of a bereaved father or wife. The vocal
chords cannot be the vocal chords of him they have lost.
These, alas, are being resolved into dust in the bosom of
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 303
mother earth. The sounds they hear have their origin in the
throat of the medium, or if you like, they come from an
ectoplasmic reproduction of the organs of the dead located
near the medium or in some mechanical trumpet standing
hard by. In any case what is heard is not the voice of the
dead but a simulation of that voice. Supposing the facts to
be as believers state, they only go to prove that certain
denizens of the next world possess a, to us, inexplicable
power of mimicry. And why should that power of mimicry
not extend to the reproduction of style and thought, as well
as to the physical accidents of voice or handwriting ?
If we could assume with certainty that it was impossible
for disembodied spirits to possess any other knowledge of the
earth plane than that which they carry with them, and if
again it could be shown that there never had been any indica­
tions given by such communicators of a wish to deceive, we
might be pardoned for accepting their claims more readily.
But it is just in these two vital points that the case breaks
down. Accepting the data presented in such volumes as those
of the late Lady Glenconner (afterwards Lady Grey of
Falloden), and Mr. Drayton Thomas on Book Tests, we have
conclusive evidence that those on the other side follow all
that is going on here among the friends whom they have
quitted. For example, two at least of the books to which
Lady Glenconner’s son “ Bim” purported to give references
were published after his death. War Poems, by X., referred
to as the second book on the shelf in a room in the Glen­
conner’s house at Queen Anne’s Gate, was certainly not there
in “ Bim’s” lifetime, because he was killed in September,
1916, and the book War Poems was only published in the
October of that year. Another volume, Ardours and Endur­
ances, was not printed until 1917, a whole year after his
death; and yet “ Bim” is supposed to have described the exact
304 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
position it had been given in a bookshelf at Glen. Moreover,
he wished his family to be told that “he takes an interest
in all they do, that he knows all about their movements,
that he can be with them in all they are doing.” But if “Bim”
himself could obtain all this information, there is no assign­
able reason why we should not suppose that other dis­
embodied spirits were equally privileged. Neither is it easy
to see why such knowledge should not be communicated
from one spirit to another and be used for purposes of
deception.
Again, there might be serious objection to admitting the
possibility of personation from the other side if no evidence
were forthcoming that such attempts had ever been made.
But, on the contrary, the most accredited exponents of Spir­
itualism everywhere assure us that there are whole troops
of spirits whose one desire appears to be to deceive and
impose upon those who are willing to hold intercourse with
them. As we have already seen, the classical exponent of
Spiritualism as a religious movement, Mr. Stainton Moses,
repeats almost ad nauseam the most emphatic warnings
against the danger of impersonation. The evidence of this
propensity in the spirits who purport to communicate is over­
whelming, but the point cannot be further developed here.
Meanwhile, there are other considerations which would
tend to put us on our guard against personating spirits
whether the means they employ to establish their identity
be similarity of handwriting, imitation of style and manner­
isms, or, in the case of direct speech, the pitch and intonation
of the voice in which the sitters are addressed. To take this
last point first, we have in the case of the poltergeist of
Macon a striking example of deliberate and successful mim­
icry on the part of the spirit which purported to com-
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 3«5
municate.17 In a mocking mood, the spook, we are told,
began to counterfeit the voice of the mother of Michael
Repay, a boy who was present; and so perfect was the
imitation that the lad at once said, laughing, to his father:
“Father, truly he speaks just like my mother.” Moreover in
a number of similarly well-attested poltergeist disturbances,
sounds are heard which reproduce such noises as the draw­
ing of corks, the sawing of wood, the smashing of crockery,
the crowing of cocks, the squealing of pigs, the rattling of
chains, the barking of a dog, or the crunching of wheels on
the gravel. In many instances it was quite impossible that
anything of the sort could physically have occurred in the
neighbourhood. But the agency which produced such sounds
may reasonably be believed to have been equally capable of
imitating the intonation of any particular human voice.
The author of a recently published work, who seems, in a
sober way, to have taken a great deal of interest in psychic
manifestations, gives an account of a seance held with a non­
professional medium, an Austrian lady of title. One or two
of those present expressed a strong desire to witness a mate­
rialisation, but the control replied:
“ You are still very foolish. You know that I am a spirit and there­
fore I have no body of my own. Of course I could assume a form if
you insist on seeing something. How would you like me to appear?
As a child, or as an old man, or as a dog?” 18
The request was not persisted in, but taking the statement
for what it is worth, it goes to show that what people see and
hear on such occasions are simulacra contrived for the occa-
"I have told the story in some detail in the Irish quarterly, Studies for June,
1928. This imitation of voices is not confined to poltergeister. Many such mani­
festations occurred with the Goligher circle in 19 15 -16 . See W. J. Crawford,
T h e R eality o f P sychic Phenom ena (19 16 ), pp. 28-32.
’’Nora Purtscher-Wydenbruck, A n Austrian B a ck grou n d (1932), p. 127.
306 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
sion, not realities. As an incidental illustration of the un­
healthy aspects of these practices, I may also note a circum­
stance which is recorded of the same control. We are told
that the baroness who acted as medium was sternly forbid­
den by the control “ever to use the mediumistic power again
and was warned that she would lose her reason if she did.”
Another, but different point of interest is the deterioration
which seems to me to be often perceptible in those few au­
tomatic scripts which at first view give evidence of literary
merit. No doubt those who report these things are prone to
put the big strawberries at the top of the basket. There are
certainly indications that the later communications from
Oscar Wilde were not on a level with the brilliant utterances
recorded above. It is as if the communicator had grown
weary or bored. One gets the impression that the effort of
maintaining the impersonation had proved too exhausting.
Even with Patience Worth, anyone who perseveres in read­
ing right through the novel Hope Trueblood will find that
towards the end the threads all seem to grow confused and
tangled. The individual sentences are grammatical, but we
wonder what has become of the story as a story. The con­
clusion of the tale is almost incoherent.
Again the handwriting test of identity on closer scrutiny
does not satisfy. The script handwriting in its general effect
looks very like Oscar Wilde’s, and many of his peculiarities
have been reproduced, but there are consistent, even if min­
ute points of difference. The script has the appearance of be­
ing the work of a clever penman who was imitating a style
of writing of which he had only a fairly accurate mental
picture.
Strange things are possible in this matter of handwriting.
Father Fernando M. Palmés, S.J., Professor of Psychology at
Barcelona, in his recent book Metapsiquica y Espiritismo
THE SCRIPT OF OSCAR WILDE 307
(1932) describes an experiment conducted in his presence at
a reformatory school in Spain. One of the inmates, a boy of
about nine years of age, was called up by the Medical Super­
intendent and hypnotised. Another medical man, Dr. P.,
who had come as a visitor, was asked to write down his name
and surnames (apellidos) — it will be remembered that a
Spaniard generally has two or three — and the paper was
then given to the boy (who probably, says Fr. Palmés, did
not know how to read and write) with an order to look at
it steadily and then at once to make an exact copy. The boy
paying no heed to his surroundings, concentrated his gaze
upon the signature and then, taking the same stylographic
pen which Dr. P. had used, without looking again at the
writing or even at the piece of paper on which he made the
copy, but keeping his head down and his gaze averted,
dashed off unhesitatingly and with decision the name and
the surnames in question. The resemblance of this reproduc­
tion to the original was, we are told, surprisingly exact.19
One gathers from this and other similar experiences that in
a condition of trance or somnambulance, faculties often de­
velop for which normal psychology can find no explanation.
But it was certainly not the spirit of Dr. P., who was there
standing by his side, which controlled the boy’s hand to pro­
duce a facsimile of his signature.
In connexion with Oscar Wilde it may be interesting to
note in passing a statement made by the late Mrs. Bellamy
Storer, the widow of a former American Ambassador of that
name. In a letter I received from her some time before her
death, she writes:
“ About 15 or 16 years ago, when we had a house at Versailles,
Father Benson [she refers, of course, to Msgr. Hugh Benson, the
convert son of a former Archbishop of Canterbury and himself well
“ Palme’s, Metapsiquica y Espiritismo (1932), pp. 384-5.
3o8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
known as a preacher and novelist] paid us a visit, and his.friend
Père Clérissac (the famous Dominican) came several times to see
him. I happened to speak of Oscar Wilde. There had been a news­
paper hint that he was not really dead but had retired to a monastery
to hide himself from the world. The Père Clérissac, to our great
surprise, said: ‘Madame, I can assure you that Oscar Wilde is dead
— for it was I who heard his last confession on his deathbed. He
died a Catholic, a repentant sinner.’ Père Clérissac himself died in
1914, only about two or three weeks after his friend Father Benson.”
I can only give this upon Mrs. Bellamy Storer’s authority;
I have had no opportunity of verifying it.
To return, however, from this digression; there are un­
doubtedly mysteries in the whole field of automatic writing
which our psychology has not yet fathomed. That the sub­
conscious mind of the medium or mediums is responsible
for a great deal, both as to the form and matter of what is
written, cannot, I think, be questioned. At the same time no
theory of cryptæsthesia or extended telepathy seems to me
adequate to explain all the data. I cannot persuade myself
that any theory is admissible which does not postulate the
interference of some outside intelligence, of a spirit or spirits
in fact, influencing powerfully the mind of the medium.
From this undoubtedly it would follow that in exceptional
cases the phenomena of automatic writing establish the exist­
ence of something outside and beyond this material world.
But if we appeal to them as a proof of survival after death,
it seems to me that the case breaks down; for survival can
only be demonstrated by such means when the identity of
the communicator is established. We must turn for our proof
of a future life to other arguments, more metaphysical it may
be, but better founded in sound logic.
■r. i
C h a p t e r XV
SOME MODERN DEVELOPM ENTS
A l t h o u g h it is not the purpose of this book to furnish a sur­
vey of the whole field of psychic research, still a few words
should be said upon certain recent experiences which, in my
view, greatly strengthen the case of those who maintain the
reality of the physical phenomena. Foremost among these I
should be inclined to rank the “direct voice” manifestations
to which of late years so much prominence has been given.
It must not, of course, be supposed that these are a complete
novelty. Even as far back as 1852, Adin Ballou in his little
book Spirit Manifestations, when speaking of the knockings,
tickings, etc., produced by a spiritual agency with indications
of more or less intelligence, adds to the list “imitations of
many sounds known in the different vicissitudes of human
life, musical intonations, and, in rare instances, articulate
speech.” 1 Of course it is a common thing for an entranced
medium with his or her own vocal organs to give utterance
to words which purport to be those of the spirit controlling
— “the familiar spirit” — but Ballou must clearly mean that
the “articulate speech” was produced, like the rappings and
musical intonations, by no perceptible human agency.
Such “direct voice,” or “independent voice” mediums
often make use of a trumpet through which the communi­
cating spirit is believed to speak. As these seances are for the
most part conducted in absolute darkness, and without any
strict control of the medium’s person or hands, it is extremely
'Boston edition (1852), p. 7.
3 10 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
difficult to be sure that he is not himself speaking through
the trumpet, for the luminous stripes attached to the instru­
ment form a very inefficient means of locating it, and it is
almost impossible to know whether the medium is still sit­
ting where he is supposed to be sitting. He may, with the
dexterity acquired by long practise, be carrying the trumpet
round, touching the sitters or waving it in the air, while he
is believed to remain motionless and entranced in his own
seat. Still, the strength of the “direct voice” evidence, seems
to me to lie, not in the movements of the trumpet nor in the
whisperings heard through it when it is pointed at a partic­
ular individual among the sitters, but rather in the quality
of the voices, in the fact that more than one voice is some­
times alleged to be heard at the same moment, and in the
languages, unknown to the medium, which these voices
speak with perfect correctness.
Thanks to the two books of Mr. H. Dennis Bradley, To­
wards the Stars and The Wisdom of the Gods, which have
gone through several large editions and have been translated
into four or five European languages, the most widely
known direct-voice phenomena at the present day are those
of the medium George Valiantine. I am quite aware that in
1924 the committee appointed by the Scientific American
turned Valiantine down, on the ground of some extremely
suspicious incidents connected with his manifestations. More
recently, both at Berlin and at Genoa, he was accused,
though it would be too much to say that he was convicted,
of producing fraudulent phenomena. But near London in
1931 in the house of the same Mr. H. Dennis Bradley who
had so strongly championed his claim to unrivalled pre­
eminence in the matter of the direct voice, Valiantine was
detected beyond all question in an outrageous piece of im­
posture. Pretending to have obtained an ectoplasmic imprint
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 3
“
of one of the fingers of the late Lord Dewar, it was proved
by expert authority which could not be gainsaid, that the
medium had left upon the prepared paper an impression of
his own big toe. In spite of this highly unsatisfactory record,
I do not think that the evidence for the direct-voice phenom­
ena in Valiantine’s case is seriously affected. It is admitted
that Eusapia Palladino was guilty of shameless trickery
whenever the opportunity was given her, yet many of her
severest critics, though fully aware of this, have found it im­
possible to resist the evidence for the genuineness of her
manifestations on other occasions. So let us consider the
case of Valiantine a little more in detail.
George Valiantine, according to the testimony of all who
have had any relations with him, is an uneducated man who
knows no language but that which is common to all citizens
of the United States, and who in adult manhood was con­
ducting a small business as a razor-hone manufacturer in an
inconsiderable American town. He had no interest in litera­
ture and had never traveled until he came to England in
1924. He possessed, however, remarkable mediumistic gifts
and in particular it was discovered that at his seances per­
sonalities, purporting to belong to the world beyond, spoke,
either through trumpets or from space, in voices certainly
very different from the medium’s natural tones, and some­
times, it was maintained, recognisable as the voices of the
deceased relatives of those who were present. Whether this
was beyond the powers of a clever ventriloquist might be
doubted except for two circumstances. It is alleged that more
than one voice not infrequently spoke at the same time and
also that the voices continued to be heard at the very mo­
ment that Valiantine himself was conversing audibly with
his neighbours at the séance. This, I may readily admit,
would be difficult to establish quite satisfactorily by the evi-
312 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
dence of members of the circle. People, even though we may
assume them to be in perfect good faith, get worked up by
anything which impresses them. They are excited by a cer­
tain confusion of sounds and their subsequent memory is
far from exact. Still, a considerable number of those who
have assisted at Valiantine’s best seances affirm most positively
that the voices overlapped, and that this occurred under con­
ditions in which it is impossible to suppose the intervention
of any confederate. But what is much more satisfactory from
an evidential point of view is the fact that these voices, not
once, but many times, spoke in foreign languages, and in­
deed on certain occasions in fantastically strange languages.
Professor Neville Whymant, who is recognized as an expert
in Chinese, having published a book on Colloquial Chinese
(1922) and a Mongolian Grammar (1926) besides possessing
a considerable acquaintance with many other out-of-the-way
tongues, was invited, in October, 1926, to attend certain
séances with Valiantine in New York, of which he has re­
cently published an account.2 He declares on the first page
of this booklet:
“ I am not a spiritualist. I am not in any way connected with psy­
chic research societies. . . . My position is one of extreme simplicity;
having no theory to expound, no scheme to foster, my memory is un­
trammelled in its backward groping, and my vision is unimpaired by
any preconceived notions.”
Dr. Whymant’s impressions of the medium himself seem
also to be worth quoting. He says :
“ Before the sitting began, I had a talk with Valiantine, who struck
me as a typical example of the simpler kind of country American
citizen. His speech was far from polished, he seemed to lack imagina­
tion, his interests were of a very commonplace order, and he seemed
as much puzzled as proud of the queer happenings which appeared
1Psychic Adventures in New York. (London: Morley and Mitchell Kennerley,
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 313
to have their centre in him. . . . He was almost untravelled, and ex­
hibited no desire to see or know anything of countries other than
his own. Occasionally he made amusing (and obviously unrehearsed)
blunders in speech and misconception, and above all he seemed to be
always natural.”3
With regard to the séances Dr. Whymant’s statement is
quite positive. There was a voice speaking archaic Chinese
with which he carried on a long conversation, and this not
on one day only but on several days. Professing to be a lin­
guist with a wide knowledge of Eastern tongues, he testifies
to the fact that he heard also Persian, Sanskrit, Yiddish, Ger­
man, Portuguese, and modern Greek. He had been invited
to the sittings expressly that he might give some account of
the strange sounds which none of those who formed the
study circle could interpret. While declaring that he had no
knowledge of the terminology of Spiritualism and that he
was not interested in the discussions of the subject which
took place among those present, he adds:
“ What did worry me was my inability to find any satisfactory
normal explanation of the phenomena. Even if the medium had been
a first-class linguist, it was manifestly impossible for him to be speak­
ing in Chinese and American English at one and the same time, and
yet all the sitters had heard Valiantine carrying on a conversation
with his neighbour while other voices (two or three at one time) were
speaking foreign languages fluently.” 4
This is Dr. Whymant’s statement, and it is perhaps the
more persuasive because it does not include any laboured
protestations of the writer’s good faith. I am aware that his
pretensions as a linguist are not universally admitted, but I
cannot conceive that he is altogether a charlatan. The ex­
planation of the matter on normal lines would require us
to believe either that Dr. Whymant was lying or that the
'Op. cit„ p. 18.
*rhis overlapping of the voices is attested not only by Dr. Whymant but by
many other observers.
3 r4 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
hostess, Mrs. Cannon, a lady of assured standing in New
York society, was party to an elaborate series of mystifica­
tions which involved the admission into her drawing-room
of two or more accomplished confederates. People who speak
Basque and Sanskrit and Persian are not easily picked up in
the streets even of New York. Moreover, Dr. Whymant in­
troduces us to another voice from space which is of especial
interest because his description exactly accords with the ac­
counts given of the same personality who figures often in
séances held in Italy 4,000 miles away. He says:
“ Presently there sounded a very strong voice like that of an Italian
singer. ‘Cristo d’Angelo’ was roared at full lung force! The voice
in this instance seemed to soar up to the ceiling and hover there.
. . . Speaking at first in pure and clear Italian, the voice soon dropped
into a Sicilian dialect of which I knew nothing. Before leaving the
circle, however, Cristo d’Angelo was prevailed upon to sing a Sicilian
ballad.” 5
Now we have a detailed account of séances held at Venice
in May, 1929, in the house of Dr. Piero Bon — he is referred
to often also as Count Bon — with Valiantine for medium.
Dr. Bon tells us that he was himself brought up in Sicily and
is thoroughly acquainted with the dialect. His description"
tallies in every respect with that of Dr. Whymant. He de­
scribes how Cristo d’Angelo’s exceptionally powerful voice
seems to come from the ceiling, and how all the sitters in­
stinctively threw their heads back and looked upwards while
he was singing, whereas when another control, “Honey,”
sang a little English ditty in rather quavering tones, the voice
was apparently at the level of their knees and they all bent
downwards in their chairs in the effort to hear more dis­
tinctly. Here, also, d’Angelo sang both in Italian and in the
Sicilian dialect. There were other singers as well at those
*Psychic Adventures in New York. (London: Morley and Mitchell Kennerley,
1931), p. 21.
“Published in the Italian periodical Luce e Ombra, May, 1930, pp. 216-218.
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 3i5
Valiantine seances in Venice. “Pat O’Brien canto in irland-
ese,” which perhaps only means that he sang with a brogue,
but a voice which purported to be that of Sebastian Cabot
favoured them with a ballad in archaic Venetian.7It is to me
inconceivable that these details, attested by a number of peo­
ple in good social position, can be purely fictitious, and it is
not less incredible that a man of Valiantine’s upbringing
could have been able by any trick of ventriloquism to impose
upon native Italians in their own country which he had
never previously visited. That the voice which announced
itself as that of Sebastian Cabot was really that of the illus­
trious explorer no one need be asked to believe. Nothing is
more certain than that personation and deception, mingled
with much that is veridical, prevails in all these communica­
tions. Personally I see no reason to think that adequate proof
of identity ever has been given or ever can be given by the
agency at the other end of the wire. But that is not for the
moment the point. I am only contending here that certain of
the phenomena which have taken place under Valiantine’s
mediumship cannot be accounted for by any hypothesis of
trickery, and that we are consequently forced to admit that
there are intelligences outside this visible world which, oc­
casionally at least, intervene in human affairs and try to place
themselves in communication with the living.
The long conversations carried on with the direct voice of
Cristo d’Angelo, Bert Everett, etc. (stenographic notes in
some cases being taken at the time, and veridical information
imparted which was not always in the consciousness of any­
one present), must also be admitted to have great weight.
Moreover, though I cannot here go into detail, the fact that
precisely similar direct-voice phenomena have occurred with-
'The fuller narrative may be found in Luce e Ombra, for October and Novem­
ber, 1929.
3 i6 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
out Valiantine’s assistance at the Castle Millesimo and at
Genoa,8 the same controls sometimes presenting themselves
with the same recognisable voices and the same idiosyncra­
sies, must be accounted a striking confirmation of the man­
ifestations previously observed.
As mentioned above, Valiantine has been accused of trick­
ery in the séances he gave at Genoa in May, 1929. But the
facts adduced in Dr. Piero Bon’s contributions to Luce e Om-
bra under the title “ Contro l’ipotesi del trueco nelle sedute
con G. Valiantine”9are of great weight in all this matter. In
the course of the same discussion Dr. Bon points out that
when Valiantine gave his sittings at Genoa, he was sur­
rounded by an atmosphere of mistrust, and what was more
than mistrust, a distinct anticipation that he was going to be
detected in some sort of imposture. This had apparently
arisen out of a warning given by the control, Cristo d’Angelo,
at the Castle Millesimo, some months previously. The voice
had said that when Valiantine came to Italy10 a mystery
would be divulged, and then the same voice, seeming to
wish to recall the words, had exacted a promise from each
person present that no record should be made of this utter­
ance in the minutes of the séance, and that no one should
speak of it. The words of Cristo d’Angelo were, however,
remembered, and when Valiantine at a later date was known
to have arranged for a visit to Genoa, attempts were made
"Professor Bozzano (L u c e e O m b ra , 19 31, p. 418), speaking of Cristo d’Angelo,
very reasonably, as it seems to me, lays stress upon the power of this voice, upon
its inimitable Sicilian accent, and upon the length of the conversations which it
maintained. See also the book M o d ern P sych ic M ysteries (London: 1929) edited
by Mrs. Gwendolyn Kelley Hack. On all this matter see also Prof. Bozzano’s
recent book P o lyg lo t M ed iu m sh ip (London, 1932), an English translation of cer­
tain articles of his which are still running in L a R icerca Psichica, the periodical
now published in Milan.
"L u c e e O m b ra , May, June, and July, 1930.
’"It is curious that there was at the time no talk of Valiantine’s visiting Italy.
The invitation was given to him much later on by Dr. Piero Bon himself.
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 3
1
7
to ascertain what this disclosure was likely to be. Cristo
d’Angelo’s living voice was then in abeyance, but the Mar­
quis Centurione Scotto, in trance, announced, seemingly in
the person of that control, that Valiantine would be caught
speaking into the trumpet and pretending to produce the
voice of Dr. Barnett. However it may have happened, this
story got about, and the atmosphere of the circle at Genoa,
so Dr. Bon assures us, was an atmosphere of suspicion, in
which the thought of the majority of those present was con­
centrated upon the exposure of fraud expected to occur be­
fore the close. In these conditions the susceptible mind of
the medium, we are told, succumbed to this battery of sug­
gestion and the seance ended in his doing the very thing
which they anticipated he was going to do.11
Clearly this way of looking at things supplies a very con­
venient excuse for psychics detected in imposture. “ I did it,”
such a one will always be able to urge, “because your minds
were set upon it and the collective suggestion was so strong
that I could not resist.” The plea sounds ridiculous enough,
but I confess that I am not sure that it ought on that account
to be summarily rejected. The power of unspoken sugges­
tion, an influence hardly dreamed of by the neurologists of
an earlier age, is now every day coming to be more fully
recognized. Charcot’s once famous “stigmata” of hysteria
have been shown to be mainly due to the unconscious sug­
gestion of the physician himself.12 The cures of Christian Sci­
ence healers — and the occurrence of such cures can hardly be
denied — are almost certainly attributable to influences of
the same nature. That genuine psychics, especially when en-
"Thcre is no satisfactory evidence that Valiantine was actually detected in
trickery at Genoa. At best it can only be said that he behaved suspiciously.
“ See, for example, A. F. Hurst’s Croonian Lectures on The Psychology of the
Special Senses, pp. 2-3, corroborated by the abundant evidence recorded in the
rest of the volume.
3i8 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tranced, are exceptionally suggestible, is at least antecedently
probable, for they are in a hypnotic condition, and the
prompting to perform certain acts, or to give utterance to
certain words, while it seems to come most powerfully from
the discarnate agencies by whom they are habitually con­
trolled, is not necessarily confined to these. The mental radia­
tions of those with whom they are in contact in the séance
room may also affect these sensitives, and we know so little
about the operation of such forces that it is very hard to deny
the possibility that in certain conditions the terrene influences
may be dominant. Moreover, we have to consider the sup­
position entertained by many who are familiar with these
matters, that the suggestion to produce fraudulent phenom­
ena may come directly from mischievous or malicious agen­
cies on the other side with whom the medium has contracted
some relation. Stainton Moses was a psychic who had a large
experience in his own person of both mental and physical
phenomena, and no one, as I have previously noticed, could
speak more strongly than he does, in his Spirit Teachings and
other books, of the extreme difficulty of detecting impersona­
tors, and of pronouncing upon the integrity or lack of integ­
rity of the controls with whom he found himself in contact.
In the case of Valiantine, what stands out most clearly is
the fact that his genuine phenomena were so abundant and
his reputation so assured that he had absolutely no need to
produce manifestations fraudulently. The medium who de­
pends for his daily bread upon the clients he attracts cannot
afford to give them nothing at all in return for the fees they
pay him. He soon finds himself deserted and starving, if in
sitting after sitting he obtains no positive results. The tempta­
tion is great to retrieve the situation by trickery. Valiantine
was certainly not in this case. The imprint said to be made
by Lord Dewar, but which proved to be an impression of
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 319
Valiantine’s left big toe, was produced on February 23, 1931,
but only on the previous evening Mr. Bradley testifies to the
occurrence of living-voice phenomena of the most evidential
kind. For example, he says:
“ Of the ‘guide voices,’ Pat O’Brien spoke with us volubly in his
usual manner; ‘Black Foot’ in his deep tones from the centre of the
circle, spoke with us on two or three occasions; ‘Kokum’ in his power­
ful voice spoke independently from a region somewhere near the
ceiling; ‘Cristo d’Angelo’ spoke to us in Italian, and then upon re­
quest sang in that language in vibrant tones, the sound of his voice
coming from high up in the room, some twelve feet away from where
Valiantine was sitting. The unusual Chinese voice of another guide
— ‘Chang Wei’ — spoke a few words to us in pidgin-English, and
then sang a quaint song in his own language.”
There were also many others, including Mr. Bradley’s
father, and Mr. Bradley states:
“ The fluency of the voices, which spoke practically without a pause
for ninety minutes, was phenomenal. At one time three voices were
heard speaking together one across the other, two from high up in
the room, and one from the centre of the floor: ‘Kokum,’ ‘Bert Eve­
rett,’ and ‘Black Foot’ — all overlapping. ‘Kokum’ shouting his re­
marks in a tremendous tone, and the shrill voice of ‘Bert Everett’
making jocular remarks regarding the other two.”
Nevertheless, on the very next evening Valiantine had re­
course to the flagrant piece of trickery just referred to, and
has certainly forfeited forever the confidence of a good many
people who believed in him. Why did he do it ? One curious
point is that the little company assembled should have been
so suspicious as to lay traps for him, taking impressions of
the toes of all, and a few days later colouring the plasticine
with methylene green. Still more curious is the remark made
by Valiantine when Mr. Bradley and his friends, after ob­
taining convincing evidence by a careful study of the im­
prints, challenged him point blank to own up to the fraud.
The medium, we are told, “collapsed utterly and burst into
320 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a violent fit of sobbing.” He lost consciousness, and seemed
in danger of a stroke. It was an hour or more before he re­
covered sufficiently to be able, with the assistance of Mr.
Bradley’s arm, to go up to his room.
“ He thanked me,” writes that gentleman, “ for helping him,
speaking in heart-broken tones, almost like a child. He sat limply on
his bed, his eyes looking into space, and, not as if he was addressing
me, he said in broken tones: ‘W hy did they do this to me? Why did
they do this to me?’ These words were said in a manner difficult to
describe. Strange as it may seem, I do not believe that he meant by
‘they’ to refer to Mr. Jaquin or me or any of us.” 13
It certainly seems highly probable that those whom he
blamed as the cause of his disgrace were not the people who
had been present at the séance, but the spirit guides in whose
hands he had left himself and his reputation. The remark,
to my thinking, implies that he had been impelled by these
agencies to risk the imposture and that they had let him
down. I am strongly inclined to believe that in the repeated
cases of fraud and exposure occurring with those who have
genuine psychic powers — for example, with Eusapia Palla-
dino, Florence Cook, and many others — the impulse to
cheat does come from freakish or malicious spirits in whom
they ordinarily trust and that the mediums are only partially
responsible. Of course, they suffer, and deserve to suffer, in
consequence, and the fact that there is hardly a single phys­
ical medium who has not at some time been detected in trick­
ery is only an additional proof of the very undesirable char­
acter of the communications to which they devote their lives.
I should not have been led to give so much prominence to
the case of Valiantine, were it not for the indirect support it
receives from the experiences of other psychics, whose phe­
nomena with the direct voice, not so well advertised as his,
**The full account of all this will be found in Mr. Dennis Bradley’s book
— And After (19 3 1).
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 321
are less open to suspicion. Foremost among these, I must
count Mr. John C. Sloan of Glasgow. Here you have a man
who steadily refuses to receive a fee for his services as a me­
dium, who, in a humble position works hard for his living,
retains the sincere respect of his employers, is averse to all
publicity, and is religiously minded without ostentation. At
Sir William Barrett’s house some few years ago I met Mr.
J. Arthur Findlay, then Vice-President of the Glasgow So­
ciety for Psychical Research, and heard him speak with en­
thusiasm of Sloan, whom he knew intimately. Recently Mr.
Findlay has published a book,14 almost entirely based on the
phenomena observed in séances with Sloan and more par­
ticularly dealing with the direct voice. Referring to the first
occasion on which he had an opportunity of judging of this
medium’s powers, Mr. Findlay says:
“ As the séance went on, I wondered how it would be possible for
any man, even if he had accomplices, to carry on such an imposture
for over three hours. Thirty separate voices spoke that night, of dif­
ferent tone and accent, they gave their names, their correct earth ad­
dresses, and spoke to the right people, were recognised, and referred
to intimate family affairs. Never once was a mistake made, and the
darkness really increased the evidence in favour of the genuineness
of the whole proceedings, as, difficult as it would be to remember
everyone’s departed friends and relations and their family affairs in
the light, it would be doubly so in the dark, because fifteen people
were present, and the medium would have to remember exacdy
where each one was sitting. The voice on every occasion spoke in
front of the person who recognised the name, the earth address and
the details which were given. It was all very mystifying, and the fact
that sometimes two or three voices spoke at once did not make it
less so.” 15
Mr. Findlay goes on to explain that while he was debating
with himself whether all this could be due to an organized
“ O b the Edge of the Etheric, by J. Arthur Findlay. (London: 19 31), Rider.
uIbid„ p. 56.
322 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
system of accomplices, he was addressed by his father who
gave his full name and “referred to something that only he
and one other person ever knew on earth, and that other,
like my father, was some years dead.” Moreover, that other
person also spoke now and referred to the same matter. He
adds that he did not give his name when he entered the
room, knew no one there, and no one knew him or anything
about him. In the course of thirty-nine séances which Mr.
Findlay has since had with Sloan, and of which he has pre­
served careful notes, “eighty-three separate voices have spo­
ken to me or to personal friends I have brought with me.”
He adds that “at request, any part of the body would be
touched (by one of the trumpets) without a mistake, with­
out any fumbling, a clean gentle touch, an impossible feat for
any human being to do in pitch darkness, as I have proved
on various occasions.” He also remarks: “ I next decided to
take the first opportunity to sit beside the medium, and,
when a voice was speaking, to put my ear close to his mouth.
I held his hand from the beginning of the seance, and when
a voice spoke, I put my ear close to his mouth. I felt his
breath, my ear and his lips were just touching, but not a
sound was to be heard. This I have done, not once or twice,
but many times.” Moreover, he declares that the voices which
speak are “ of all degrees of strength and culture” and that
the subjects they discuss are often completely beyond the
medium’s range of education and interest. “He is no stu­
dent,” says Mr. Findlay, “his range of literature is very
limited. He told us once that he had seldom, if ever, read a
book in his life owing to poor eyesight. I have never seen a
book in his house, though I have been in every room of it,
and only once an evening paper. He has not the capacity to
carry on a séance, such as I have described, normally, for one-
half hour, even if he wished to do so.” 16 In view of the high
'’Ibid., p. 174.
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 323
character for independence and disinterestedness which is
given to Sloan by those who know him personally, it seems
difficult to suppose that his indifference to literature and his
homely speech are no more than a piece of calculated de­
ception. Moreover very few impartial critics, I fancy, would
feel justified in questioning the supernormal character of
the three communications which Mr. Findlay has recounted
as “A i” specimens of the veridical matter imparted through
Sloan’s mediumship. Unfortunately the details of these cases
are somewhat too complex to permit of their being recapit­
ulated here.17
Another medium remarkable for her direct-voice phenom­
ena is Mrs. Etta Wriedt. It is said that in her presence these
voices are heard even in good light, that on many occasions
more than one voice is audible at the same moment, and fur­
ther that the spirits communicating through her sometimes
speak in languages of which she herself has no knowledge.
Some years ago I was invited to meet at luncheon the late
Count Chedomille Mijatovich, a diplomatist who had lived
a good deal in England as the accredited representative of
what was then the Kingdom of Servia. Incidentally he was
also the author of the article “Servia” in the eleventh (1911)
edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. On the occasion spo­
ken of I heard from his own lips an account of a sitting he
had had with Mrs. Wriedt. A friend, who had unexpectedly
arrived from the Near East on a day (May 16, 1912) when
Mijatovich with great difficulty had secured a sitting with
the medium, begged to be allowed to accompany him. There,
among other strange happenings, a loud voice suddenly ad­
dressed his friend in the Croatian language and in that
tongue a lengthy conversation ensued, of which Mijatovich
declared that he heard and understood every word. Con-
” See On the Edge of the Etheric, pp. 92-98.
3
2
4 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
federacy of any sort was impossible, since no one else was
present except the medium and their two selves. At a sub­
sequent sitting with Mrs. Wriedt, the same diplomatist av­
erred that he held a conversation with his mother (deceased)
in their native Servian, while, later on, a lady friend who
went with him sang a duet in German with a male voice
which purported to be the voice of a fellow artist with whom
she had formerly practised music. Some account of Count
Mijatovich’s (and other) experiences with Mrs. Wriedt may
also be found in print in the volume which Admiral Usborne
Moore has published entitled The Voices. It is, of course,
possible to reject this testimony, which depends upon the
statement of the narrator alone, but I confess that I should
find it hard to believe that the very earnest and cultured
gentleman whom I met at luncheon was merely romancing.
There can be no occasion to discuss here the claims of other
mediums to obtain manifestations with the direct voice. I
know too little of the seances held with Mrs. Blake, Mrs.
Emily S. French, and Mrs. Blanche Cooper to venture to
criticise them; though it is beyond doubt that the lady last
named does not always succeed in satisfying her clients as to
the supernormal character of the powers she claims. The
“Walter” who manifests at “Margery’s” (Mrs. Crandon’s)
seances, has become very famous. If, on the one hand, many
critics are not satisfied that the voice is that of the lady’s de­
ceased brother, it must be said, on the other hand, that no
conclusive evidence of fraud has ever been produced.18 More-
18AIthough conclusive evidence of fraud in connection with the voice of Walter
has not been produced, it must be admitted that some extremely damaging facts
have lately come to light in relation to the thumb-prints of the same control.
They prove to be identical with those of a living man, “ Dr. Kirwin,” whose real
name has not been divulged, but whose former association with the Margery
séances is well known. See “ Bulletin XVIII” of the Boston Society for Psychical
Research. I am much indebted to the kindness of the editor, Dr. Walter Franklin
Prince, for the communication of this brochure with its admirable and convinc­
ing facsimiles.
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 3
2
5
over the impersonation, if it be an impersonation, appears
to be astonishingly consistent and true to life, while the
“voice-cut-out” machine invented by Dr. Richardson pur­
ports to provide a quite satisfactory guarantee that the voice
is not produced by Mrs. Crandon herself.
Analogous to the direct-voice phenomena and equally in­
explicable by natural causes are the specimens of automatic
script which certain psychics produce, either written cor­
rectly in languages with which they are wholly unacquainted
or copied from books chosen at random and held out of sight.
Some striking examples of the former class are recorded in
the volume entitled Psychic Experiences of a Musician
(1928) by Mr. Florizel von Reuter, the celebrated violinist.
The automatist in this case was the writer’s mother, Madame
Grace von Reuter. Although mother and son are polyglot-
tic, speaking several languages with more or less facility,
they received a number of messages in tongues of which
they knew nothing; e.g., Polish, Hungarian, Persian, and
Turkish. A curious feature of the case is the fact that pur­
porting communicators frequently spelled the words they
communicated in inverted order. To take an English ex­
ample, Mme. von Reuter, working blindfolded and in en­
tire ignorance of the letters coming in succession from her
fingers, evolved the following message, in answer to the ques­
tion “Who are you?” addressed to a communicator who
said he was a Scot.
d e y a l p s e p i p t a t h c e n n u d n e h w y h t t a e r g e m
a d d n a r g s a w n r i a b
Each word separately is written backwards and thus the
first six letters received spell simply “played,” while the
whole message reads:
“ played pipes at Dunnecht [sic] when thy great-granddame was
bairn.”
Mr. von Reuter, as he explains, was on one side of his
326 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
family of Scottish descent. Many messages in German, Span­
ish, Italian, etc., though written at lightning speed, came in
a form similarly inverted, a fact which of itself presents a
considerable problem for those who would explain such
communications as simply the product of the automatist’s
subconscious mind. Dr. Walter Franklin Prince, whose crit­
ical attitude in respect of the “Margery” case and in rela­
tion with other mediums, is well known, seems to have re­
garded the von Reuter experiences as of serious interest. In­
deed Dr. Prince, if correctly reported, declared that the
Turkish messages “fulfilled all the most exacting scientific
demands.” 18
With regard to the reading of a specified page in a closed
book, this faculty has been claimed for W. Stainton Moses.
According to his analysis of the process, it was not his own
mind which was clairvoyant; but the spirit which controlled
him at the time read the page of the book while it still stood
in its place on the shelves, and then, through his hand, wrote
a transcript upon the paper before him. The fact that Mr.
Moses, without moving from his chair, did so copy passages
from two books quite unknown to him which stood on the
shelves of Dr. Speers’ library is accepted by F. W. H. Myers
and by Mr. Trethewy.19 A more recent and better attested
example is provided by Judge Dahl in his book, We are
Here, Psychic Experiences. In this case the medium so gifted
was his daughter Ingeborg, and the experiment took place
in the presence of six witnesses. Here again the medium did
not claim to be able to see or read the page herself, but the
spirit of her dead brother, as she alleged, standing before a
bookcase in the next room, dictated to her in some manner
” P sych ica l E x p erien ces o f a M u sician , p. 256; cf., however, pp. 89, 2 11,
242, 254.
“ See Myers' H u m a n P erson ality, II, p. 592, where the texts are reproduced;
and Trethewy, C o n trols o f Stainton M oses, pp. 55, 178, 191-9 2.
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 3
2
7
quite inaudible to those present the words which he read in
the book selected. An English visitor chose at random “the
seventh book from the left in the upper shelf, p. 316.” It
proved to be a copy of Wordsworth’s poems, and Ingeborg
seated at her desk in the next room, took down quite cor­
rectly, at the spirit’s supposed dictation, the lines standing
first on that page and occurring in the middle of a sentence:
“ But more exalted, with a brighter train:
And shall his bounty be dispersed in vain,
Showered equally,” etc.
Two other not less successful tests took place with books
similarly selected, one of which proved to be a work of
Georg Brandes in Danish, and the other a volume of the
Norwegian poet Bjornson. All this happened on August 15,
1928; the record was taken down by Judge Ludwig Dahl at
the time and facsimiles of the pages in question are given.
There was also another convincing experiment of the same
kind three days later in which a volume of Shelley’s poems
figured.20
Still more remarkable perhaps are the automatic script
phenomena occurring with the same Norwegian young lady
who, it need hardly be said, is not a professional medium
and who does not exercise her powers outside her own fam­
ily circle. Writing, however, in a state of trance, her pencil,
without any choice of her own, seems sometimes to be con­
trolled by agents of whose history she knows nothing. As an
illustration of what is wont to occur, her father records the
following incident:
“ On Dec. 19, 1926, my daughter’s right and left hands wrote
simultaneously two separate letters. The one that was written by her
left hand was from a deceased young physician, Carsten S------ , to
his father, who held a distinguished office in one of the southern
x We Are Here, Psychic Experiences, by Judge Ludwig Dahl (19 31), pp.
228-232.
328 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
towns of Norway. The father declared in a letter that the handwrit­
ing, which my daughter had never seen, could not have had a closer
resemblance to that of his son. My daughter had not even had an
idea of the young physician’s existence during his earth life. The
other letter written by her right hand was from Eva (a little cousin)
to her parents. Here there was no opportunity of identifying the hand­
writing, as Eva had died at the age of three. Her letter was elegandy
written in large round letters, widely differing from those of the phy­
sician. His writing was of the rapid, slanting type, with a flourish at
the signature. While her hands guided the two pencils, my daughter,
in trance, conversed smilingly with her two brothers. (Both of them
were dead, but she believed she saw them in their astral bodies pres­
ent in the room.)” 21
It may also be noticed that on other occasions Ingeborg
has written similar letters from dead persons whose hand­
writing she has never seen. Facsimiles are given in two of
these cases, and, as the reader can see for himself, the resem­
blance to the authentic script of the persons concerned is cer­
tainly striking. One of these letters addressed to a girl by her
deceased English aunt is written in English. Not only are
the handwriting and signature a close imitation, but the let­
ter is quite naturally phrased as an Englishwoman would
phrase it, though Ingeborg, as her father tells us, knew only
a modicum of English and had never written an English
letter in her life.
I do not propose to speak here of another comparatively
modern development of psychic research, the paraffin moulds
of materialised hands and feet, with which the medium
Franck Kluski is primarily identified. The phenomenon,
Sir Arthur Keith notwithstanding, is not easily explained
away, but it would be difficult, without an abundance of
photographic illustrations, to do justice to the real points at
issue. Dr. Geley’s book, which has been translated into Eng­
lish under the title Clairvoyance and Materialisation, offers
n Ib id ., p. 228.
SOME MODERN DEVELOPMENTS 329
probably the fullest statement of the subject which is gen­
erally accessible.
Spirit photography has been known for more than sixty
years, and it may readily be admitted that no form of mani­
festation offers such opportunities for trickery as the sensi­
tized plate upon which the sitter hopes to find a psychic ex­
tra. For many years, and especially after the exposure and
full confession of the notorious Buguet in Paris (1875),
hardly any investigator who approached the subject in an
impartial spirit of enquiry was willing to admit the possi­
bility of such impressions even as a serious hypothesis. But
latterly a change of feeling has certainly come about and
many students of metapsychics who are by no means uncrit­
ical in their general attitude to the supernatural — I might
mention the name of Mr. Hereward Carrington as a case in
point — confess that the evidence for psychic extras (though
not so commonly recognizable faces) cannot lightly be set
aside. The curious part of the matter is that the markings
which are found upon the plate seem to be primarily due to
the direct influence of the thought of the medium or of some
other person present upon the sensitized film. The camera
and other apparatus of photography are apparently unnec­
essary. A friend of mine who was a first-class amateur photog­
rapher and who spent years in making the subject of psy­
chic photography his special hobby — always in hope of ob­
taining some portrait of his deceased wife but unfortunately
without success — told me what seems a very significant
fact. He used during the later period of his researches a ster­
eoscopic camera, the best which money could procure. With
this he obtained in the presence of various mediums a great
variety of extras, sometimes unrecognizable faces, sometimes
clouds, lights, and strange markings. But these appeared in­
variably upon one only of the two pictures which resulted
33o TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
from each operation, a fact which seemed to prove that the
extra did not attach to the object photographed but was
caused by some sort of direct psychic action upon one of the
plates. Probably the best evidence upon the subject will be
found in the book of the Japanese psychic investigator Dr.
T. Fukurai, which in its English edition appears under the
rather barbarous title of Clairvoyance and Thoughtography.
In his pages one may read of experiments with several dif­
ferent mediums, scientifically conducted and attested, in
which the medium by concentrating upon a particular pic­
ture or Japanese character has imprinted the image of this
upon one or more of an unopened packet of photographic
plates. Astounding as the assertion may be, the evidence
seems altogether too strong to be resisted.
C h a p t e r XVI
T H E CASE OF DO YLE VERSUS HOUDINI
In t h e volume of essays by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle which
appeared only a week or two before his death, he affirmed
that “the greatest medium-baiter of modern times” was un­
doubtedly the conjuror Houdini.1 It is probable that this does
not overstate the case, and I should be inclined to go further
and to say that, in the United States at any rate, no one has
done more than Houdini to bring Spiritualism into disre­
pute. If one may venture to form an opinion at this distance
from the scene, the prevalence of deliberate imposture among
mediums is notably greater in America than in England.
Sir Arthur himself in the volume referred to confesses as
much, and while, of course, still maintaining the trustworth­
iness of such claimants to psychic powers, as the Davenport
brothers in the past, or Mrs. Crandon at the present day, his
defence of mediumistic honesty is no longer quite so confi­
dent as it was in his History of Spiritualism. Though noth­
ing but ignorance, as he contends, can suppose that there are
no real mediums, “at the same time the States, and in a les­
ser degree our own people, do need stern supervision.” “I ad-
1T h e E d g e o f the U n k n o w n , by Arthur Conan Doyle (John Murray), p. i.
The chapter which he entitles “ The Riddle of Houdini” occupies no less than
62 pages. I have unfortunately not been able to meet with the volume H o u d in i
a n d Conan D o yle, the Sto ry o f a Strange F rien dsh ip, by B. M. Ernst and Here-
ward Carrington (1932). But I may note that the review of it by Dr. W. Frank­
lin Prince in Bulletin XVII of the Boston S.P.R., contains an important rectifica­
tion of some statements made in the book concerning the Margery case.
331
332 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
mit,” he adds, “that I underrated the corruption in the
States.” 2
If this be so, Houdini in his rather noisy campaign, was
not merely tilting at windmills. The evidence of fraud in
many cases was overwhelming, and he was able to reen­
force his contention that all spiritualistic phenomena are
faked, by himself performing marvels even more inexplic­
able than any mediumistic feats capable of being brought to
the knowledge of the general public. We should probably
be right in concluding that Houdini’s denunciations were
largely responsible for the sceptical attitude of so many in­
telligent American Catholics at the present day. In their eyes
the marvels produced by D. D. Home, Stainton Moses, and
the Fox sisters were all tricks. This attitude, as I have pre­
viously urged, seems to me a mistaken one, and an unsound
foundation must inevitably weaken the force of any argu­
ment based upon it. If we want to get rid of Spiritualism
we shall not effect our purpose by pretending that the pheno­
mena are nothing but imposture. Nevertheless, it does not
follow that because the great “ medium-baiter” was convinced
of the fraudulent character of the spiritistic wonders he had
witnessed, he was therefore a deliberately untruthful person
whose word could not be trusted when he denied the inter­
vention of any psychic agency in the performance of his own
marvellous feats.
Seeing that Houdini died in 1926, the details of his aston­
ishing career are, no doubt, already growing dim in the
minds of many, even of his countrymen. It may be well, then,
to say that this master magician was born at Appleton, Wis­
consin, in 1874. His father was a Jewish rabbi named Weiss
'Ibid., p. 7. In his History of Spiritualism (I, p. 128) A.C.D. had written
when speaking of exposures, “ Some of these exposures at long intervals are true
indictments of some villain, but usually they are greater deceptions, conscious or
unconscious, of the public than the evils which they profess to attack.”
DOYLE VERSUS HOUDINI 333
who had emigrated from Hungary. There was a large fam­
ily who were in straitened circumstances, and Erich, the sev­
enth son, from quite early years earned a little by his excep­
tional aptitude for acrobatic feats and for every development
of the showman’s business. Locks, rope ties, mechanical de­
vice, and tricks of legerdemain were an unfailing source of
interest to him throughout his life. When he was twenty he
married rashly and tempestuously, a girl of seventeen, whom
he had hardly known for more than a week, and, strange to
say, the union proved a singularly happy one. She was, it
seems, a Catholic of German family, by name Beatrice (“ Bes­
sie” ) Rahner, and though their nuptials were at first a sort
of Gretna Green affair, a Catholic priest put matters right
soon afterwards when a proper dispensation had no doubt
been obtained. As a son and a husband, Erich was irreproach­
able. Struggling on and for the most part engaged in a var­
iety of small side-shows in which the young couple both took
part, they maintained a dire conflict with poverty for half a
dozen years. Houdini, as he elected to call himself, after the
great French conjuror, Robert Houdin, neither smoked nor
drank at any period of his life. At their little domestic cele­
brations he loved to regale his wife and friends with cham­
pagne, but he never touched it himself. He kept himself fit
for his performances, many of which demanded strength
and endurance of no ordinary kind, by constant physical
training. A large proportion of his earnings he regularly
transmitted to his mother, and the husband and wife were
content to go hungry as long as her needs were provided for.
The pair had their occasional tiffs, for they both had tem­
pers, but no reader of Mr. Kellock’s biography can enter­
tain a doubt of the depth of affection which united them.
Years afterwards, when Houdini, now unrivalled in his own
profession, was persuaded to take part in certain film dramas,
334 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
so constructed as to give scope for some of his most marvellous
displays, we are told how
“ the directors in charge of the film were greatly troubled by their
hero’s casualness in the love scenes. Houdini’s puritanical soul ap­
parently shrank from this part of the game, and his nervous reluctance
in such scenes aroused no little merriment among his associates. One
frantic director after trying vainly through a futile morning to per­
suade Houdini to embrace the heroine as if he were not submitting
to a painful duty, as a last resort entreated Mrs. Houdini to leave the
lot. ‘Whenever we get him to the point of kissing the girl,’ he said,
‘he spoils the shot by glancing anxiously at you.’ ” 3
But the famous conjuror was certainly not a hen-pecked
husband who lived in terror of his diminutive spouse. She
herself recounts an incident of their quite early days, which
proves very clearly that he knew how to assert himself when
he thought the occasion called for it.
“ He had forbidden me [she says] to go to a certain show which
bobbed up in a town where we were playing. I was just as determined
to go. He said the show was unfit for me, and if I disobeyed him he
would spank me and send me home. Naturally after that warning I
went to the show. He followed me, carried me out, spanked me
thoroughly, divided all our poor savings, led me firmly to the rail­
road station, bought my ticket to Bridgeport where my sister lived,
and put me on the train, placing our pet dog in my hands just before
the train pulled out.”
“ At the last minute, lifting his hat courteously, he said: ‘I always
keep my word; Good-by, Mrs. Houdini.’ My heart was breaking,
and I was on the edge of hysteria, but the memory of the spanking
rankled and enabled me to reply with a pretence of calm dignity:
‘Good-by, Mr. Houdini.’ ”
“ Bessie” goes on to relate how her husband, always con­
siderate, had wired so that she might be met at her destina­
tion. She was petted and fussed over, but she confesses that
she was intensely unhappy and ready even to beg forgive­
ness on her knees.
’ Kellock, Houdini, p. 270,
DOYLE VERSUS HOUDINI 335
“ Six hours later, at 2 a.m., the bell rang and I heard Houdini’s
voice. I flew to the door, and we fell into each other’s arms weeping.
‘See darling,’ said Houdini, ‘I told you I would send you away if
you disobeyed, but I didn’t say I wouldn’t fly after you and bring you
back.’ ”
As this story sufficiently hints, Houdini’s standard of pro­
priety was a high one. His biographer tells us that “he would
do anything sensational to draw crowds, but he had one
rigid taboo. He abhorred smut and would never tolerate it.”
So when certain friends in Paris took him to a place of enter­
tainment where a dance was performed which he considered
outrageous, he left the theatre in a fury and wrote in his
diary: “ the two women who did it ought to be publicly horse­
whipped.” Moreover, we are told that he was not only a rigid
monogamist himself, but that he exacted as much of his in­
timates. If they violated his code they stepped out of his
life. No one could possibly accuse him of being either timid
or diffident. His self-assertiveness, in fact, was one of the
points which unfriendly critics were most ready to dwell
upon to his disparagement, but when living among the film
artists at Hollywood, he admitted with a quaint mixture of
truth and irony: “I am afraid I am not much of a lady’s
man. I am so old-fashioned that I have been in love with the
same wife for twenty-five years.”
Houdini’s affection for his mother was even more conspic­
uously manifest to all who came in contact with him. Doyle
in the book above referred to, says that it seemed to be the
ruling passion of his life, and that after her death he ex­
pressed it on all sorts of public occasions “in a way which
was, I am sure, sincere, but is strange to our colder Western
blood.” When she was still living, the quaint fancy seized
him of purchasing a dress he had seen in a shop window
which had been made for Queen Victoria. He paid a con­
siderable sum for it, and had it sent out for his mother to
336 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
wear in the States. He wrote to her every day even when the
Atlantic was between them, and his interest in Spiritualism
seems to have developed only after she had passed away,
and to have been created by his intense desire to get into
communication with her once more. But he could never per­
suade himself that any of the messages which purported to
emanate from her were genuine, and the traces of fraud
which he repeatedly encountered in the course of this quest
so disgusted him that towards the close of his life his persis­
tent campaign against mediums became almost an obsession.
To this matter we shall have to return later on, but for the
moment we may note, as another curious trait in his deeply
affectionate nature, that when his mother was taken from
him in 1913, he adopted the practice of writing a letter every
day to his wife, even though they were hardly ever separated.
“These letters he would hide about the house,” we are told,
“ as parents hide Easter eggs for their children. For six
months after his death in 1926, Mrs. Houdini continued to
discover them at intervals.”
It is again a testimony to the substantial goodness of the
man that his assistants were devoted to him in spite of an
endless succession of stormy outbursts on his part when they
failed to do at the moment exactly what he wanted. Of the
three most closely associated with him one was with him
twenty years and the other two eighteen.
“ All three [says his biographer] adored Houdini. They carried him
to his grave. Several times a month he would have a violent quarrel
with one or other of them and give them the traditional two weeks’
notice to quit. None of them ever paid any attention to such incidents,
and Houdini would have forgotten by the next day all about the
angry dismissal.”
Much to his distress, he had no children of his own, but
his delight in children was one of his most characteristic
traits. Hardly a week went by without his giving a perform-
DOYLE VERSUS HOUDINI 337
ance at some hospital or orphan asylum. He was constantly
arranging to have a whole section of the auditorium given
over gratuitously to some poor-school for an afternoon or
evening, and he even invented an entertainment specially
adapted for the blind. In Edinburgh, when he realized the
number of little ones who came to the performance barefoot,
he made provision to have them fitted with shoes. No doubt
he was not indifferent to the fact that all this was good adver­
tisement, for the showman instinct was part of his nature,
but there can hardly have been any subtle purpose behind an
incident recorded of him in Glasgow where he kept his au­
dience waiting ten minutes while he stopped to mend the
broken crutch of a little crippled girl he had met in the
street. His fondness for animals and birds was not less mani­
fest and it was only equalled by his skill in teaching them
tricks. His fox terrier “ Bobby,” became quite expert in re­
leasing himself, in imitation of his master, from a pair of
tiny handcuffs specially made for him. So again, when an­
other pet dog “Charlie” fell ill during Houdini’s European
tour in 1909, his diary records the fact, and adds “ Bess cry­
ing. I don’t feel any too good” ; while on the following day
appears the entry: “Poor dear little Charlie dog died. He is
out of his misery. Has been our only pet and earned all our
love.”
If I have recorded these trivialities in some detail, it has not
been without an object. Sir A. C. Doyle, while himself doing
justice to Houdini’s many amiable and attractive qualities,
has, perhaps unintentionally, given the impression that he
met his death under the influence of some sort of spell or
curse. He was, according to A.C.D., possessed of quite extraor­
dinary psychic gifts, and these he prostituted to base uses,
making them not only the source of pecuniary gain, but ac­
tually employing them to discredit the very powers which
338 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
made him what he was. In reading this chapter one gets the
idea that the great magician was a sort of Dr. Faustus who
had sold his soul to the devil and that, in the world beyond,
a term had been fixed when the spirits of evil would infal­
libly claim their own. For example, we are told:
“ I suppose that at that time Houdini was, from an insurance
point of view, so far as bodily health goes, the best life of his age in
America! . . . Yet all over the land warnings of danger arose. He
alluded in public to the matter again and again. In my own home
circle I had the message some months before his death, ‘Houdini is
doomed, doomed, doomed!’ . . . But as the months passed and fresh
warnings came from independent sources, both I and, as I believe,
the Crandons, became seriously alarmed for his safety. He was on
one side of his character, so fine a fellow that even those who were
attacked in this monstrous way, were unwilling that real harm should
befall him. But he continued to rave [against mediums] and the
shadows continued to thicken.”
Sir Arthur goes on to recount how Mr. Fulton Oursler, a
friend of Houdini’s, wrote, after all was over, to say that the
famous wizard had sensed the on-coming of death without
understanding the significance of the warning. In particular
he had telephoned to Oursler in these terms: “I am marked
for death. They are predicting my death in spirit circles all
over the country.” Seeing that according to the same witness,
a medium, Mrs. Wood, had declared three years before that
“the waters are black for Houdini” and that disaster would
befall him while performing before an audience in a theatre,
there is nothing very convincing about this alleged prophecy,
and it was quite natural that the person so threatened, in talk­
ing to any intimate friend, should comment upon the ami­
able predictions by which the mediums were trying to scare
him from pursuing his anti-spiritualist campaign.
I must confess that the whole episode seems to me a reve­
lation of one of the most objectionable aspects of these sup­
posed communications with the other world. It reminds one
DOYLE VERSUS H 0 UD1N1 339
painfully of the belief in “Malicious Animal Magnetism”
which obsessed Mrs. Eddy. If Houdini was superstitious —
and there is evidence that there was something of this in his
character, for we are told that on any Friday which hap­
pened also to be the thirteenth day of the month, he would
never undertake his more dangerous feats — such prophecies
would be likely to depress him greatly in a bad spell of ill
health, and might consequently contribute not a little to their
own fulfilment. What is much more certain is that Houdini
was a man of extraordinary resolution. Incident after inci­
dent recorded by his biographer shows how he would go
through with things according to the prearranged pro­
gramme even when he was almost fainting from some acci­
dental physical injury. In such a career as his he esteemed it
his first duty to conquer fear, and no surer way could have
been found to make him foolhardy in neglecting such con­
cessions as advancing years demanded, than to hurl at his
head the predictions of the mediums that he would break
down in the performance of one of his more daring exploits.
If Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, as 1
do not doubt, was absolutely
sincere in his belief in the reality of the messages received
from the world of spirits, Houdini on his side was equally
convinced that the whole business was fraudulent, or at best
illusory. If he were to allow himself to be shaken by such
warnings as he received nothing remained for him but to
give up his career and retire into obscurity. Sir Arthur does
full justice to the intrepidity of the friend whose attitude to­
wards spirit communications was the very antipodes of his
own. He even appeals to the superhuman audacity of the
feats which Houdini performed as conclusive proof that they
could not have been accomplished by natural means.
“ He had [writes Doyle] the essential masculine quality of courage
to a supreme degree. Nobody has ever done, and nobody in all human
34° TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
probability will ever do, such reckless feats of daring. His whole life
was one long succession of them, and when I say that amongst them
was the leaping from one aeroplane to another, with handcuffed
hands at the height of three thousand feet, one can form an idea of
the extraordinary lengths that he would go.” 4
Mr. Kellock bears similar testimony:
“ Hundreds of thousands of persons in various cities have seen
Houdini, stripped and securely handcuffed by police experts, leap
from some bridge or boat into a stream or harbour, on some occasions
in weather so cold that a hole had to be cut in the ice before he could
jump, and have seen him emerge again within two minutes free and
smiling. Other hundreds of thousands have seen him incased in a
police strait-jacket, and thus securely trussed, suspended, head down­
wards, by a block and tackle, outside some public building, and have
watched him free himself within a few minutes.” 5
Sir Arthur maintains that in these and other equally dar­
ing exploits there was a certain psychic element. Houdini
informed him, it appears, that “a voice which was independ­
ent of his own reason or judgment, told him what to do and
how to do it.” So long as he obeyed the voice he was assured
of safety. One cannot but suspect that A.C.D. has put his
own interpretation upon words which were uttered without
any such implication in the speaker’s mind as his opponent
has attached to them. No one possessing a competent knowl­
edge of psychic research and its past history, can read Houdi-
ni’s volume A Magician Among the Spirits without discover­
ing that he talks and reasons very loosely. He makes confi­
dent assertions upon very slender premises, and Doyle is
quite right in saying that the book is full of errors of fact.6
'The Edge of the Unknown, p. 2.
“Kellock, Houdini; His Life Story (19 28), p. 1.
“As a striking illustration I may note that Houdini takes it for granted that
that resolute sceptic, the late Frank Podmore, was a spiritualist, and he assumes
that Podmore would be likely to say everything which could be said in defence
of the reality of any spiritistic phenomena. Apparently Houdini had no more
ground for this strange distortion of the truth than the fact that Podmore was
a member of the Society for Psychical Research. See A Magician Among the
Spirits, p. 4 1, note 3.
DOYLE VERSUS H 0 UD1N1 341
One can understand that the amount of patter and adver­
tisement which is essential part of the showman’s equip­
ment, is likely to dull his sense of the value of accurate state­
ment. Moreover, I strongly suspect that Houdini in talking
to his spiritualist acquaintances was always trying to draw
them out, and that he deliberately played up to their pre­
possessions just to see what they would say. Certain it is, in
any case, that the great magician, on all occasions, denied in
the most solemn terms that his feats were performed by any
but natural and physical means. This is testimony of a very
different kind from the casual conversational utterance to
which Sir Arthur appeals. When the wizard escaped from
packing cases nailed down and corded by expert workmen,
leaving apparently the cords and nails intact, without indica­
tion of how the escape was effected, and when on countless
occasions he freed himself in a few minutes from all the
handcuffs, fetters, and cells which the police of the greatest
cities of Europe and America could find to restrain him,
the spiritualists, utterly baffled, were forced to declare that
such marvels could only be accomplished by psychic power,
by the dematerialization, in fact, of his physical body. Several
years ago Doyle wrote to Houdini during one of his visits to
England:
“My dear chap, why go round the world seeking a demonstration
of the occult when you are giving one all the time? Mrs. Guppy
could dematerialize, and so could many folk in Holy Writ, and I do
honestly believe that you can also. My reason tells me that you have
this wonderful power, though I have no doubt that up to a certain
point your strength and skill avail you.”
Sir Arthur’s tone became more impatient as time went on.
He distinctly insinuated that Houdini could not obtain any
convincing communication from his mother because he dis­
avowed and misused his psychic powers. “Such a gift,” he
wrote, “is not given to one man in a hundred million merely
in order that he should amuse the multitude or amass a for-
342 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tune.”7 Further, the spiritualists, as we have seen, were insis­
tent in their predictions that he would come to a bad end.
But Houdini did not waver in his attitude and only pursued
more actively his campaign against American mediums.
“ I do claim [he said] to free myself from the restraint of fetters and
confinement, but positively state that I accomplish my purpose purely
by physical, and not psychical means. My methods are perfectly nat­
ural, resting on natural laws of physics. I do not dematerialize or
materialize anything. I simply control and manipulate material things
in a manner perfectly well understood by myself and thoroughly ac­
countable for and understandable (if not duplicable) by any person to
whom I may elect to divulge my secrets. But I hope to carry these
secrets to the grave as they are of no material benefit to mankind,
and if they should be used by dishonest persons they might become
a serious menace.” 8
The secrets, it seems, were never divulged, but there is not
the slightest reason for suggesting that there was anything
sinister or abnormal about the great magician’s death at the
early age of 52. He suffered an accidental strain in one of his
sensational escapes on October n , 1926, but, though in great
pain, he pluckily went on with the performance, and indeed
appeared again on the two subsequent days. Then he col­
lapsed, and had to go to a hospital. During his convalescence
he made light of the injury, as was his wont, and was visited
by some university students. He was supposed to be normally
as immune from injury when struck, as if he had been made
of india rubber, and one of these idiotic lads thought this oc­
casion, when he was lying in bed, a suitable opportunity for
testing his powers of endurance. He seems to have been al­
lowed to strike him three heavy blows in the abdomen, and
four days later Houdini, who for some weeks previously had
been overtired and run down, died of traumatic appendi­
citis. A pathetic, but surely quite natural, termination of the
T
See Kcllock, Houdini, pp. 14 and 308-9.
*Ibid., p. 15.
DOYLE VERSUS HOUDINI 343
career of a man of fifty, who, for thirty years, had been
straining his physical powers to their utmost limit, and who
had escaped, on more than one occasion, only by the skin
of his teeth after injuries sustained in his phenomenal feats.
How does Sir Arthur’s calm assertion that Houdini, in 1926,
“ was, from an insurance point of view, the best life of his
age in America” agree with the following facts condensed
from the printed Life ?
In 1911 Houdini had to undergo a minor operation for an
abscess that had developed on his body from his daily strug­
gles to escape from strait-jackets. A little later a first-class
specialist in Pittsburgh informed him that he had ruptured a
blood vessel in one of his kidneys. He insisted that he ought
to give up his strait-jacket escapes, etc., and told him that if
he went on as he was doing he would be dead within a year.
In spite of great pain he persisted in all his feats until the en­
gagement was concluded, but he said nothing to his mother
or his wife. Early in 1912 he tore a ligament in his side and
thereafter continued his performances in much pain and dis­
tress. The injured kidney did not heal for some years and
even then he always slept with a pillow under his side.9
What, again, are we to make of the following account of
one of the magician’s attempts to rival the burial feats of the
Indian fakirs ? I borrow it from Mr. Hereward Carrington’s
recent book and I may note that the writer, though not a
spiritualist, is a believer in the physical phenomena of cer­
tain mediums, including those of Mrs. Crandon.
“ Houdini remained submerged in a metal coffin for about an hour
and a half; but when he emerged he was deathly white, running with
perspiration and with a pulse of 142. I was present at this experi­
mental burial, as at many others, and know whereof I speak. It is my
opinion that Houdini appreciably shortened his life by this endurance
burial.” 10
‘ See Kellock, Houdini, pp. 229-3 j.
“ Carrington, The History of Psychic Science (1930), p. 187.
344 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
It is possible that Houdini did say to A.C.D., as the latter
reports, that in performing his feats “a voice told him what
to do,” and that he added, “ It all comes as easy as ¡stepping off
a log, but I have to wait for the voice.” I venture to comment,
in view of the description just quoted, and of others of sim­
ilar purport, that Houdini, if he did so speak was only let­
ting off a little showman’s gas. It was no bad advertisement
for him if Sir Arthur and his fellow spiritualists proclaimed
open-mouthed through two continents, that Houdini’s
achievements so transcended the known forces of nature that
they could only be explained by some traffic with the occult.
It would take too much space to discuss in any detail an
incident to which Sir Arthur gives prominence, and which
he adduces to prove that when an advertisement was hoped
for, Houdini was unscrupulous in the methods he adopted to
bring it off. A.C.D. charges the magician with having boast­
ed beforehand that he would expose the Crandons, and with
having employed in the séances which subsequently took
place some very discreditable devices to throw suspicion on
the medium. There is no reason to doubt that the charge is
made in perfect good faith, but Sir Arthur himself was cer­
tainly not present on any of these occasions and he supplies
no references by which it would be possible to test the accu­
racy of those informants from whom his report is derived.
Even from his own narrative it is plain that the accused did
not admit the facts alleged, and propounded a very different
version of what occurred.11
One feature which unmistakably differentiated Houdini’s
marvels from those of the séance room was the fact that he
stood committed to a definite programme which he never
” 1 have read much of the literature which has appeared on both sides in
connection with the Crandon controversy, including Houdini’s booklet, and
I must confess that I find it difficult to express a confident opinion as to the
rights of the story.
DOYLE VERSUS HOUDINI 345
failed to carry through. The best of mediums can never
guarantee the production of phenomena. In all reports of
seances we are liable to be told that the conditions are not
favourable, that there is not enough power, that the presence
of a particular person or of too many people is hampering
developments, that they must talk more, or sing more, that
they must sit upright and draw in their legs, that they must
preserve contact, that nothing can happen until the modicum
of red light has been further diminished, etc. And when all
the requirements have been complied with, it happens over
and over again that the sitting proves almost entirely nega­
tive of results. In Houdini’s experiments, he practically never
failed, though he sometimes reappeared, after a more stren­
uous escape from confinement, bruised and with his clothes
torn to shreds.
But, of course, the strongest argument of all was his own
unwavering denial that occult forces had anything to do with
the feats he performed. He frankly took an interest in Spiri­
tualism, first, because from childhood he had been interested
in tricks and every kind of legerdemain, and secondly, be­
cause he was intensely anxious, if that were possible, to get
into touch with the mother he had loved so tenderly. As his
biographer tells us:
“ He retained some curiosity about the possibility of posthumous
communication even when he had encountered nothing but disap­
pointment in his relations with mediums.
“ His carefully planned pacts with his friends show that. According
to his pact with his wife, in the event of his death she was thereafter
to attempt a tryst with him once a week. Each Sunday at a fixed hour,
she was to take her favourite photograph of him, sit with it before
her for half an hour, and concentrate on communication. If something
of him survived, and it were possible to bridge the gulf, he would
give a sign.”
Mr. Kellock, writing more than a year after Houdini’s
death, states that his wife had faithfully fulfilled the condi-
346 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
tions but without result. Houdini was not an observant Jew,
though he remained faithful to some of the customs of his
forefathers, but he respected genuine religion. He was not
avaricious, though he stood out for good terms, and being
vain of his position as “ the great Houdini” insisted on his
name heading the bill. His charity was not confided to cases
in which it had an advertising value, and he was often the
last refuge of the down-and-outer, especially in the case of
those who belonged to his own profession of showman. Ab­
stemious as he always proved himself and courageous in up­
holding high moral principles, I find it impossible to believe
that his whole life was an acted lie. And it must have been
that, if his wonderful performances had all been effected by
some unavowed magic of psychic origin or by any kind of
evil compact with the powers of darkness.
It has always been a favourite argument with those who
maintain that trickery of some kind is responsible for all the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, to appeal to the inex­
plicable feats performed by showmen who are avowedly
only conjurers. For this reason and in a spirit of fairness to
my opponents, I have included the present notice of Houd­
ini12 as perhaps the most wonderful of all modern magicians.
But the fact that we cannot tell how Houdini performed his
marvels does not, to my thinking, place them in the same
category with the accordion playing, the movement of heavy
furniture, the fire-handling, the levitations, etc., which oc­
curred in the presence of D. D. Home and other famous
mediums. I cannot here argue the matter at length, but I
should like to lay stress upon the fact that Home’s demon­
strations took place without apparatus, in the drawing-rooms
laIt appeared in The Month for August, 1930, and I wrote it virtually as i
review of Doyle's book, The Edge of the Unknown, which had just then been
published.
DOYLE VERSUS H 0 UD1NI 347
of houses in which he was a guest, that witnesses stood close
by his side in a reasonably good light, and that many of these
phenomena, notably those with the accordion, involved the
temporary transference to others of a share in his own pe­
culiar powers. Let me quote further what seems to me the
very sensible observations, made long ago towards the close
of his life and after many years of personal interest in Spir­
itualism, by Horace Greeley, the Anti-Slavery leader and the
founder of the New York Tribune. Speaking of mediums,
of whom he had had a large experience, he writes:
“ Most of them are persons of no special moral elevation; and I
know that more than one of them has endeavoured to simulate
‘raps’ when the genuine could not be evoked. Let us assume then
that the raps prove just nothing at all beyond the bare fact that
sounds have often been produced by some agency or impulse that
we do not fully understand, and that all the physical phenomena have
been or may be simulated or paralleled by such jugglers as Robert
Houdin, Blitz, the Fakir of Ava, etc. But the amazing sleight-of-hand
of these accomplished performers is the result of protracted laborious
training by predecessors nearly or quite as adroit and dexterous as
themselves; while the mediums are often children of tender years,
who had no such training, have no special dexterity, and some of
whom are known to be awkward and clumsy in their movements.
The jugglery hypothesis utterly fails to account for occurrences which
I have personally witnessed, to say nothing of others.”
And again:
“ The failures of the mediums were more convincing to my mind
than their successes. A juggler can do nearly as well at one time as
another; but I have known the most eminent mediums spent a long
evening in trying to evoke the spiritual phenomena, without a gleam
of success. I have known this to occur when they were particularly
anxious — and for obviously good reasons — to astound and convince
those who were present and expectant; yet not even the faintest rap
could they scare up. Had they been jugglers, they could not have
failed so utterly or so ignominiously.” 13
’’Horace Greeley, Recollections of a Busy Life (1869), pp. 238-239.
Chapter XV II
T H E “F R U IT A G E ” OF M O DERN SPIRITUALISM
T hose who have wrestled with the incoherences of Mrs.
Mary Baker Eddy’s preposterous work, Science and Health
with Key to the Scriptures, may remember that the closing
section, occupying a hundred pages, or just one seventh of
the whole book, is entitled “Fruitage.” In this chapter Mrs.
Eddy professes to give some account of what Christian
Science has achieved in the way of concrete results. Three ap­
propriate texts are prefixed to her summary, of which the
first is: “Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.” It
may not perhaps be out of place if I end the present rather
desultory volume, by an attempt to answer the question:
What is the “fruitage” of Spiritualism ? What has the “New
Revelation” done for mankind during the eighty years of
its recognized existence?
So far as the reading public in general is concerned, I
mean for the intelligent man in the street who takes no par­
ticular interest in the occult but who likes to acquaint him­
self with what is going on around him, any mention of
Spiritualism calls up two outstanding ideas. The one is that
of the frequent exposures of dishonest mediums who have
been caught out in manifest trickery. The other, is a remem­
brance of the publishing broadcast of many strange and
contradictory communications which purport to reveal the
conditions of life beyond the grave. Up to the present no
deeper impression has been made upon the world at large
than is summed up in the association of the cult with these
348
"FRUITAGE" OF SPIRITUALISM 349
two vague impressions. This slender result of the many mil­
lions of hours spent in attempted intercourse with the spirit
world is certainly in flat contradiction with the marvellous
promises which were again and again impressed upon the
first pioneers of the movement. Ballou was told in 1852 that
the whole earth was about to be transformed into a new
garden of Eden, and, as he has left on record, his son, com­
municating from beyond the grave, was insistent in his ap­
peal: “Father be patient; watch and wait. Another century
cannot commence before this great change will be wrought.”1
Upon the prevalence of imposture among the rank and
file of professional mediums who make money by the exer­
cise of their psychic gift, a good deal has already been in­
cidentally said in the course of this volume, and I cannot see
that any useful purpose would be served by accumulating
further examples. I will only notice that within the past few
months before the writing of this chapter a climax has been
reached in the exposure of a particularly flagrant example of
fraud tested by Mr. Harry Price in the National Laboratory
of Psychical Research, London. One Mrs. Victoria Helen
Duncan, a medium of Dundee, who had acquired a great
reputation in Scotland for her materialization phenomena,
was invited by certain English organisations, notably by the
London Spiritualist Alliance, to give a series of séances in the
metropolis. These apparently took place to the complete sat­
isfaction of all concerned, and hundreds, if not thousands,
of well-meaning adherents of the movement went away con­
vinced that in a good light they had witnessed with their
own eyes the extrusion from the medium of a vast web of
ectoplasm, which covered her from head to foot and out of
which spirit hands and spirit faces were built up as the au­
dience gazed spellbound. It was then arranged that Mrs.
'Ballou, Spirit Manifestations (Boston: 1852), p. 230.
350 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
Duncan should give five séances at the National Labora­
tory where a small group of people, including such expert
investigators as Professor William McDougall, F.R.S., for­
merly of Oxford, but now of Duke University, N. C.,2 Pro­
fessor Fliigel, and Professor Fraser Harris, assembled to sub­
ject the manifestations to rigid control.
To detail the incidents which occurred during the five
séances would be impossible here. At each of the first four an
immense sheet of “ ectoplasm,” proceeding exclusively from
the medium’s mouth, though attempts seem to have been
made to suggest that it also came from the nose and ears,
covered the whole front of her person, trailing on the ground
when she rose to her feet. Flashlight photographs were taken
at intervals and the very excellent apparatus used has allowed
these photographs to be almost indefinitely enlarged. When
studied in this way the substance revealed itself as beyond
all doubt a woven texture, in which the warp and weft could
be plainly distinguished, in which there were many notable
rents, in which the selvedge plainly showed at the edges,
and in which traces could be discerned of the creases caused
by the way in which it had been at some time folded. The
numerous reproductions in Mr. Price’s volume make the
matter perfectly plain to even a purblind reader. If this is
ectoplasm, then ectoplasm differs in no respect from the or­
dinary cheesecloth which can be bought very cheap at any
Woolworth establishment. Moreover, one of Mr. Price’s il­
lustrations shows that a piece of such cheesecloth, six feet
long, thirty inches wide, and weighing only an ounce and a
half, can be squeezed tightly into a roll which could, with­
out difficulty, be held in the mouth.
But the cheesecloth material was not the only feature
’ Besides being the author of many works on psychology, Professor McDougall
was at one time President of the English Society for Psychical Research.
“FRUITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 351
which suggested that the phenomena were susceptible of an
explanation which involved no preternormal agencies. A
hand which was seen in the third séance coming from the
medium’s mouth was in due course photographed. This,
when hanging down at the end of a strip of “ectoplasm”
and also in a crumpled-up condition, leaves an unmistakable
impression, even in the halftone reproductions, of being
nothing more than a rubber surgical glove. There is a gray­
ish shiny gloss upon it which marks it off clearly from the
white material and which is equally inconsistent with its
being a hand of flesh and blood. What is more, a small safety
pin came into view on this and another occasion, and though
it showed itself in the middle of the “ectoplasm,” it is diffi­
cult to suppose that it can have had an ectoplasmic origin.
Again, the girl’s face, which was conspicuous in the middle
of “ectoplasm” in the fourth seance, was, we are told, not a
solid face in three dimensions, but simply a picture in the
flat.
There can be no need to dwell upon other details which
are duly set out in Mr. Price’s book.3 Practically no doubt re­
mained in the minds of any of the group of investigators
that this garb of ectoplasm was produced by a sheet of cheese­
cloth or butter muslin, which Mrs. Duncan, a big woman
who measured 57 inches round the chest and weighed over
17 stone, swallowed and was able to regurgitate and reab­
sorb at will. If any hesitation could still have been felt re­
garding this conclusion, it would have been subsequently re­
moved by the evidence of Mrs. Duncan’s servant, Mary Mc-
Ginley, who in a statutory declaration made on February 22,
1932, before a Commissioner for Oaths, revealed many in-
'Bulletin of the National Laboratory of Psychic Research — Regurgitation and
the Duncan Mediumship, by Harry Price. With 44 illustrations (London:
Published at 13d. Roland Gardens, S.W. Price 5s. net).
352 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
teresting facts. She had been sent to purchase seven yards of
cheesecloth for her mistress, had washed it after use and had
noticed its particularly sour and musty smell, had found a
pair of india-rubber surgical gloves, thrown aside at the top
of a shelf and also a little picture of a girl attached to a piece
of muslin.4 No shadow of doubt could be felt that the whole
manifestation had been cunningly thought out and con­
trived with such skill that many audiences of simple people
had been successfully imposed upon.
As a further illustration of the frequency of such frauds
it may be noted that in the same year, 1931, three other noto­
rious cases attracted public attention. Charles Albert Beare,
“a certificated clairvoyant and trumpet medium” — which
means that he had been tested by a spiritualist organisation
and pronounced genuine — made public avowal of his trick­
ery. The detection of George Valiantine in an attempt to
produce fraudulent finger prints has already been noticed,
while in September of the same year, Craig Falconer and
George Falconer, two Glasgow men, after a legal prosecu­
tion and trial in South Africa, were convicted of producing
bogus manifestations which purported to be the work of
spirits. The prisoners were each sentenced to a fine of £ 150,
or in default to twelve months at hard labour, the judge re­
marking that the accused had preyed upon the feelings of
credulous persons and had committed their frauds under the
cloak of religion. “ Such frauds,” he added, “ made a mockery
of religion.”
Seeing that similar examples of detected imposture may
be cited from every period in the history of the movement,
one is led to ask whether the holding of dark seances does
not amount to a direct encouragement offered to unscrupu-
*This Statutory declaration has been separately printed by Mr. Price as a
supplement and is now issued as Appendix H.
"FRUITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 353
lous charlatans. Whatever successes may at times have been
achieved by genuine mediums, the whole atmosphere of
what I may for convenience call “platform Spiritualism” is
tainted with fraud.
And when we turn from platform Spiritualism and look
into the communications received through mediums in pri­
vate consultations or occupy ourselves with the reams and
reams of automatic script which has accumulated during
these eighty years, do we find things very much better? I
have not for my own part the least doubt that there are
honest mediums, and that they may be met with even among
the ranks of those who make a livelihood out of their gift.
Mrs. Piper in America, whose supernormal powers brought
conviction to such sceptically minded investigators as Dr.
Richard Hodgson and Professor William James, the psychol­
ogist, or again Mrs. Osborne Leonard in England, who has
been consulted by scores of honourable people whose scien­
tific standing is hardly less distinguished than that of Sir
Oliver Lodge, are both of them professional mediums. In
both cases subtle tests have been devised and detective agen­
cies employed to discover whether the strange knowledge
they evince, in their trance condition, of facts which they
could not have learned by reading or by common report,
had been acquired by some subtle back-stairs method. No
suspicious circumstance has been brought to light in either
case by these enquiries. On the contrary, the mystery has only
deepened, and I have heard of no one, however sceptically
inclined, who, having studied the evidence with care, doubts
the good faith of the two psychics just mentioned. Among
modern representatives of the science of divination, they
stand for the high-water mark not only in personal character,
but in the quality of their gift.
Nevertheless if anyone sets himself to peruse, just as they
354 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
were given, the communications which have come to us
through these exceptional channels, he will often find the
task inexpressibly tedious and unprofitable. There may be
grains of gold here and there, but the amount of pure rub­
bish is exasperating beyond description. Whether the “Im-
perator” who controlled Stainton Moses is to be identified
with the “ Imperator” who controlled Mrs. Piper can only be
matter of conjecture. In the former case Imperator expressly
claimed to be the prophet Malachias.
“ Know then [so Stainton Moses’ script records] that I was in-
carned upon your earth in those terrible days of desolation which suc­
ceeded the return of God’s people from the land of Persia under
Nehemiah. . . . In those days I lived and spake with human ut­
terance the prophetic message, even as now I convey through you a
fuller and clearer knowledge of the same God whom I then revealed.
When Nehemiah stood forth to guide the people and to bring them
back to God, I, Malachias, the Angel of Jehovah, the Messenger of
God as I was called, stood by his side and prophesied of God’s judg­
ments.” 5
The communication, which runs on to much greater
lengths, is signed “ Imperator S.D.” Mrs. Piper’s Imperator
is not less sententious or less sanctimonious, but never by any
chance does he impart information which would be of value
or give utterance to a thought which one would wish to re­
member. When questions are put to him he seems to resent
any imputation of ignorance, but on the other hand talks
against time without ever coming to the point. Here is an
extract from Imperator’s discourses on Melchisedek — com­
munications which were apparently expected to clear up the
forgotten history of the people of Israel:
“ W e must give thee light in brief. There is so much to relate to
thee, my friend, that the light would never last long enough for us to
give thee a full detailed account of the lives and workings of the me­
diums of God, never friend. Could we have taken up this light in its
°See Trethewy, The Controls of Stainton Moses, p. 25.
“FRUITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 355
earlier stages we could have given thee this information but it is too
far gone for this. So I would ask thee to hasten and get all the infor­
mation concerning them, viz., the messengers of God. There is not
time enough for details in full. So we must give thee all we can.”
To this, Hodgson, the sitter, replies:
“ I shall be glad if you will give the outline in as brief a form as
you think desirable.”6
Nevertheless he obtains no definite statement of any kind
— nothing that could not have been supplied by any well-
informed child in a Sunday school. A new control, “George
Pelham,” then appears and Hodgson makes mild complaint
of Imperator’s vagueness. Pelham assures the sitter that Im-
perator is “very high” and near the sight of God. The dia­
logue continues thus:
"Hodgson. I have asked him about the course of spirit teaching
from the beginning on Jewish lines.
“ Pelham. Well, he knows if anyone does.
"Hodgson. Exactly. He seems to know, but he does not convey it
to me in the straight way in which I would convey it to you in a
brief outline history. . . . It is very general as he gives it.”7
I may add that the communications purporting to ema­
nate from such well-known personage as George Eliot
through Mrs. Piper’s mediumship are equally feeble and un­
convincing.
Again, in the case of Mrs. Leonard, a great deal of the in­
formation which her control, “Feda,” communicates seems
to have little serious value. It was natural enough that many
passages in Sir Oliver Lodge’s book, Raymond recording the
supposed happenings on the other side of the veil should be
ridiculed and burlesqued. I do not believe that Sir Oliver
himself regarded them as in any sense veridical, though he
•Proceedings of S.P.R., xxviii, 481. Light, in spiritualist phraseology, is the
stored-up psychic force which renders such communications possible and which
like the electricity in an accumulator is liable to be rapidly exhausted.
'Ibid., p. 484.
356 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
considered it a duty to record such utterances conscientious­
ly, even when fully aware that the mention of cigars, whisky
and soda, etc., were bound to create a prejudice in the minds
of a great proportion of his readers. He speaks more than
once rather impatiently of “Feda talk,” and emphasizes the
truth that “ sophistication” is sure to occur in these messages
owing to their dependence upon so many mental factors, the
minds, that is, of the communicators, the control, the me­
dium, and the sitter. None the less the trivialities are there,
and cannot be explained away. No one could regard the rev­
elations made through Mrs. Leonard or her ordinary control
as a source of inspiration. Moreover, as Mrs. W. H. Salter
has observed in her discerning “ Report on Sittings with Mrs.
Leonard,” “ there can be little doubt that when Feda is at a
loss, when for one reason or another she is not able to get
any genuine impressions of a supernormal character, sooner
than remain silent, she resorts to what may be termed her
‘stock in trade’ and pads freely.” 8
But if this is the case with the very elect, with such highly
gifted psychics as Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Leonard, to whom all
the spiritualistic public pays honour, what are we to expect
of the crowds of lesser automatists whose supposed inter­
course with their departed friends somehow finds publishers
and floods the world with messages from the unseen. Few
who have not looked into the subject can form any idea of
the dimensions which this literature is assuming. In a little
bibliography which appeared in The Spiritual Magazine as
far back as 1867, I find the enumeration of some sixty-five
printed works “claiming to have been given by direct spir­
itual influence through human mediumship,” and this list
was certainly not exhaustive. It does not, for example, in­
clude any of the more general treatises, such as those of Bal­
lou, Edmonds, and Hare, which incorporate long spirit com-
"Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. XXXII, p. 8.
“FRU ITAGE" OF SPIRITUALISM 357
munications merely as a subordinate part of their contents.
None the less, some of these last are among the best attested
and most interesting we possess. Take, for example, the work
of the Rev. Adin Balou (1852), several times previously men­
tioned, which was one of the very earliest and perhaps quite
the sanest of the books written to expound the doctrine of
communication with the spirit world. Like Sir Oliver Lodge,
and like Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Mr. Ballou, a much re­
spected Universalist Minister in Massachusetts, had lost a be­
loved son, who died in the flower of his age (February 8,
1852). A lady, who was seemingly not a paid medium but a
friend of the family, a person, says Mr. Ballou, “who, I firm­
ly believe, is morally incapable of intending to deceive and
who declares she is unconscious of originating the ideas or
of any volition to express them in writing” was “impressed
to write these things out with her hand by an intelligence
distinct from and superior to her own.” After some prelim­
inary communications from the other side, questions were
asked and replies given. On February 19 of that year we have
such answers as the following:
Q. Do you seem to be at a considerable distance from the earth
and how does it appear to you?
A. At quite a distance; we see all the earths as well as the one you
inhabit. They do not look as stars or planets do to you. They are in­
deed worLds like yours and we see them as such.
Q. Have you anything analogous to sleep or refreshment in your
state ?
A. Our rest is change. Our food is spiritual. Knowledge is food.
Spirits more enlightened might explain more than I am now able to
do.
Q. Have you dwellings, etc.?
A. W e are in open space; our dwelling is immensity.
Q. Concerning appearances in the spirit world?
A. Things analogous to nature, but not to art, we have.
This is very definite, but it is in flat contradiction with the
account furnished from equally authentic sources to the Rev.
358 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
G. Vale Owen, honoured by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle as both
a seer and a saint. In Vale Owen’s script we find a great deal
of information about houses. For example:
“ Our home is beautifully appointed within and without. Within
are baths and a music-room and apparatus to aid in registering our
work. It is a very large place.
“ I call it a house, but it is really a series of houses, each allotted to a
certain class of work and progressive as a series. W e pass from one
to another as we learn all we can from any particular house. But it is
all so wonderful that people would neither understand nor believe;
so I will tell you of simpler things.”
Or again we are told regarding the first impressions of one
who has just passed over :
“ Also, he would see all around him dwellings and buildings of
various kinds, some of which I have described. But those buildings
would not be merely houses and workplaces and colleges to him.
From each structure he would read not its character so much as the
character of those who built it and those who inhabit it.
“ Permanent they are, but not of the same dull permanency as those
of earth. They can be developed and modified and adapted, in colour,
shape, and material, according as the need should require.”
No doubt, Sir Oliver Lodge’s son Raymond also speaks of
houses and streets, and some of the documents contained in
the Edmonds and Dexter volumes are exceedingly precise in
their details. Take this account of a lady’s house in the spirit
land:
“ It was in extent a suburban villa with the character of a cottage
ornée. It was of an oriental style of architecture, somewhat between
Saracenic and florid Gothic. I was shown the interior. . . . The ar­
rangement of the furniture was similar to that in first-class houses
here. . . . My sister showed me her dresses. . . . I was then shown
her husband’s wardrobe. I found that it did not differ in any essen­
tial particular from clothing worn by gentlemen here. I noticed one
vest that pleased me. It was of the form now worn here — a double
breaster. It was of velvet, beautifully figured, black and purple.”9
*Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism, Vol. II, pp. 541-42 (Tenth ed., 1855).
"FRUITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 359
This suburban villa in an oriental style “somewhat be­
tween Saracenic and florid Gothic” leaves us a little be­
wildered, but I must own my incompetence to offer any
opinions upon questions of taste in architecture, upholstery,
or costume. All the same, one cannot help wondering wheth­
er the fashions followed by the more aristocratic class of spir­
its in the “ Summerland” are borrowed from the prevailing
mode in Paris or are dictated by abstract aesthetic principles.
Not less definite was the account which Dr. Robert Hare,
Professor of Chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania,
received from the spirit of his equally distinguished father.
The script was obtained through an automatist, Mrs. Gour-
lay, but Dr. Hare, meticulous as regards the accuracy of such
a priceless document, did not have it printed till he himself
read it all to his father’s spirit presence and had it confirmed
by raps, paragraph by paragraph.
“ The spirit world [so Senator Hare averred] lies between sixty and
one hundred and twenty miles from the terrestrial surface, the whole
intermediate space, including that immediately over the earth, the
habitation of mortals, is divided into seven concentric regions called
spheres.
“ You will understand, then, that they are not shapeless chimeras,
or mere projections of the mind, but absolute entities, as much so in­
deed as the planets of the solar system or the globe on which you
now reside. They have latitudes and longitudes and atmospheres of
peculiarly vital air, whose soft and balmy undulating currents produce
a most pleasurable and invigorating effect. Their surfaces are diversi­
fied with an immense variety of the most picturesque landscapes,
with lofty mountain ranges, valleys, rivers, lakes, forests and the in­
ternal correspondence of all the higher phenomena of earth. The trees
and shrubbery, crowned with exquisitely beautiful foliage and flowers
of every colour and variety, send forth their graceful emanations.” 10
There are pages and pages of this kind of description, very
10Dr. Hare, Experimental Investigations, etc.. Fourth Edition (New York:
1856), p. 87.
360 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
much akin to the Rev. Vale Owen’s in the general effect of
tedious platitude, but differing in all the more precise de­
tails. Dr. Hare had the advantage of obtaining communica­
tions from his father, sister, and two of his children. This
spirit family do not seem to have worn waistcoats or “double
breasters” of velvet. They were clothed “in flowing vestments
of effulgent nature.” This “raiment being composed of phos­
phorescent principles,” was seen by clairvoyants on earth “in
different degrees of brightness from a dusky hue to the most
intensely brilliant light.”
Judge Edmonds, on the other hand, was not dependent
on automatic writing alone. He had visions, in which he vis­
ited the spiritual abode of his deceased wife and went out for
drives with her. He has printed a full account of the exper­
ience :
“ The carriage was light and tasty, with a high seat for the driver,
and one seat behind for two persons. It was painted yellow and on
its panels was my seal! The harness was light and airy, and the horses
were superb animals of the true Arabian breed, with long, sleek
bodies, clean limbs and a springing motion to every step. They were
well groomed, high spirited, and well broke, and of different colours,
being matched rather for quality than looks. . . . And now how can
I describe the scene through which we passed? It seemed almost an
earthly one, but more sublimated, more refined, more beautiful and
joyous and so free. . . . It was a beautiful landscape interspersed
with cottages and gardens, etc., etc.” 11
The automobile, we are led to infer, was at this date still
as undreamed of in the spiritualist heaven as it was on earth.
Have motor cars come in since, I wonder ? At the moment I
cannot recall any mention of them in such detailed descrip­
tion of life in the spheres as we find in Raymond, “ Claude’s
book,” or We are here. Also one cannot help asking who
’’Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism, II, p. 163. (Edition 1855.)
“FRUITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 361
lived in the “cottages” and who in the “stately mansions”
described further on, one of which was “castellated and spa­
cious, surrounded by a large park,” and so forth. However,
lest the idea of proprietorship should jar upon American
democratic feeling, we are told:
“ I observed that though some of the grounds were fenced by rows
of trees and bushes, there were always openings left for a free pas­
sage in all directions and through all parts.”
A further remark is suggestive of some of the details fur­
nished by the Rev. Vale Owen:
“ As I was returning [Judge Edmonds continues] I observed that
the houses on either side of me were enveloped in different coloured
lights — some red, some blue, some green, some orange, and the like,
which, while it added immensely to the beauties of the scene, served
to indicate the prevailing characteristics of the occupants.”12
Judge Edmonds undoubtedly believed that all these things
represented realities and that they were shown him in vision
for a definite purpose. In an earlier vision a newly arrived
inhabitant of heaven wanted to know why he (Edmonds)
was not staying on with them. Thereupon the spirits ex­
plained: “That I was a mortal yet, and could not remain;
that I came there to see that country that I might describe it
to my fellow mortals, and had been drawn there by the
strong affection of my wife and children.”13
On rare occasions we have something in the way of epi­
sode. For example, the following incident recounted by Ed­
monds:
“ My attention was attracted to a noise in the woods, and I saw a
stag, with large horns branching out, running towards me at full
speed, closely pursued by a large greyhound. It was an exciting scene
and I asked myself, do they hunt here? But I soon saw that it was
only sport between those animals. As they approached the bank of
’“Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritualism, II, p. 166 (Edition, 1855).
” I b i d p. 135-
362 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
the stream the stag stopped and turned round. The hound stopped
also and began to gambol round the stag, apparently enticing him to
chase in turn.”
For the most part, however, the script or the communica­
tions obtained by the early mediums present nothing but
countless pages of intolerably dreary platitude, and the same
may be said of much that has been published in quite recent
times, not certainly excepting the widely advertised relations
concerning a future life which have been vouchsafed to the
Rev. George Vale Owen. One is reminded of Mr. J. Arthur
Hill’s comments on the surprising fluency and incredible
length with which trance controls will hold forth at spirit­
ualist meetings. “The Secretary of the Spiritualists’ National
Union,” he says, “once backed the late J. W. Colville to ‘talk
till this time next week, without intervals for meals,’ yet
with a dullness and inanity which would drive any but a
very tolerant audience mad.” Enquirers who will take the
trouble to dip into almost any specimen of this type of litera­
ture from the days of Edmonds and Dexter to those of Mrs.
Maria King, Cora Tappan, and now of Mrs. Meurig Morris,
so recently famous in the Law Courts, will apprectiate how
little of exaggeration there is in Mr. H ill’s cynicism. But,
the most surprising feature about the attitude of convinced
spiritualists towards these revelations is their readiness to ig­
nore all contradictions involved. Hardly any writer of our
times had a wider acquaintance with the phenomena and the
literature of modern Spiritualism than the late Mr. J. H.
Hyslop, formerly Professor of Logic and Ethics in Colum­
bia University, afterwards secretary of the American Society
for Psychical Research. In one of his books Professor Hyslop
speaks as follows:
“ But there is one more important objection or difficulty with which
we have to deal: the contradiction in the messages descriptive of the
future life. Though they speak of it as though it were the same phys-
"FRU ITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 363
ical world as that known to the senses, hardly any two writers or
communicators represent it in the same way. One may tell us that
spirits wear clothes, and another may modify this statement by say­
ing that clothes are ‘creations of thought.’ One represents the dead
as living in houses, and others deny that they do so, while still others
mediate between these two extremes by making the houses products
of thought or merely imaginary. Some tell us that we could not un­
derstand any statement about the spiritual world. All these contra­
dictions imply either differences of opinion about the other life or the
distortion of messages by the sub-consciousness of the medium, or
perhaps both combined. In any case the statements are so different
and apparently so contradictory that we cannot unreservedly trust
any communication as correctly describing the nature of that life.”
It must be remembered that Professor Hyslop favoured
belief in the abstract possibility of communication, none the
less he wrote :
“ The contradictions are so numerous that it is hopeless to try to
accept a superficial interpretation of the phenomena. One set of com­
municators — it makes no difference whether they are real or merely
sub-conscious personalities — tells us that life in the spiritual world
duplicates the physical life exactly, including food, dress, trade, art,
‘cigar manufactories,’ ‘whisky sodas’ and the whole gamut of objects
and employments that we indulge in. Another set totally denies this,
and tells us that we cannot conceive what the world is like. Some tell
us that reincarnation is true; others deny it. Some teach orthodox
religious views, others the opposite. Some believe in God, and some
do not. Some claim to live in houses, and others do not. There is no
sort of unity in such claims except on the theory that the after life,
as Swedenborg maintained, is one of mental states. Everyone is free
to think as he desires, and, if he can create his own world, as is con­
stantly asserted in communications, that world will take as many forms
as there are variant minds to create it, just as the subjective existences
of living people differ.” 14
fifty years earlier, an assailant of Spiritualism, Dr. Wil­
liam Potter, had raised just the same objection based on his
study of the messages received from beyond the veil.
14J. H. Hyslop, Contact u/itk the Other World (1919), pp. 359 and 364-65.
364 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
“ Endless contradictions and absurdities are mixed up with the
most exalted truths and the most profound philosophies. We are
taught that God is a Person, that He is impersonal; that He is omnip­
otent, that He is governed by natural laws; that everything is God,
that there is no God, that we are gods; W e are taught that all are
immortal. . . . W e are taught that the spirit world is on earth, just
above the air, beyond the milky way. That it has but one sphere,
three spheres, six spheres, seven spheres, thirty-six spheres, an infinite
number of spheres. That it is a real tangible world; that it is all the
creation of the mind of the beholder, and appears different to differ­
ent spirits. That it is inhabited by animals, birds, etc.; that they do
not inhabit it. . . . That spirits converse by thought-reading, by oral
language. That their music is the harmony of the soul; that it is in­
strumental and vocal. That they live single; in groups of nine. That
they marry without having offspring; that they have offspring by
mortals; that they have offspring by each other. That their marriage
is temporary; that it is eternal. That spirits never live again in the
flesh; that they do return and enter infant bodies and live many lives
in the flesh.” 15
To this objection Mr. Epes Sargent in his book, Planchette,
professes to make reply; but his answer does not take the
form of denying that these contradictions exist. So feeble a
rejoinder from a champion of the cause, who is by no means
wanting in intelligence, can only serve to make the unan­
swerable character of the difficulty more patent.
And yet these acres of unverifiable and contradictory mes­
sages from the beyond, whether obtained through the voice
of the medium or by automatic writing, are all that is per­
manently left us as the result of 80 years of supposed com­
munication with the spirits of those who have “ passed over.”
The books which contain them multiply incredibly; they may
now literally be numbered by the hundred. This is pre­
eminently the fruitage of Spiritualism; for who can weigh
the amount of self-deception, and often of subsequent disil-
” Epes Sargent, Planchette, p. 291 (who quotes this from Dr. William Potter’s
pamphlet).
"FRU ITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 365
lusionment which is involved in the experiences of those
who profess to have been consoled by being brought once
more into contact with the dear friends they have lost ? Is any
one of them really satisfied ? I doubt it, however much they
may protest. What alone we are certain of and what may be
proved to demonstration by anyone who takes a little pains
over the enquiry, is, first, that the practise of Spiritualism
from the beginning until the present day has been honey­
combed with every species of trickery and fraud; and, sec­
ondly, that a vast literature has been called into existence of
supposed revelations concerning the life to come, the greater
part of which is patently nonsensical and self-contradictory,
while none of it can offer any reliable evidence of the iden­
tity of the purporting communicator.
Something has already been said about the danger of per­
sonation, but I make no apology for referring again in these
concluding pages to so vitally important an aspect of the
subject. The well-known spiritualist, Mr. Stainton Moses,
who is cited with approval alike by Sir Oliver Lodge and by
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, has reiterated almost ad nauseam
the most emphatic warnings against the danger we are
speaking of. In his essay entitled, “The Intelligent Operator
at the Other End of the Line,” this writer devotes much
space to discussing the question of communication and the
reasons for distrusting the identity of those who purport to
be sending messages so far, also, as regards the causes of this
deception, he asks the following questions in a way that
evidently betrays his own leaning to an affirmative answer:
“ Is it that there are in the world of spirit, as with us, those who
delight to strut in borrowed plumes, and to pass themselves off for
something great and good, being but sorry stuff after all? Can spirits,
being, as we know, able to obtain access to sources of human informa­
tion, get up their facts and give such travesty of them as they can
remember; reckoning, not without some show of reason, on the
366 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
credulity which will accept any plausible story, or on their power to
psychologise the investigator, or so to mix up fancy, frauds and fact
as to bewilder and perplex him?” 16
A great deal more to a similar effect might be added from
the same authority. He tells us that at one time he “came to
doubt the identity of all communicating spirits.” He repre­
sents his most trusted guide in the other world as repeatedly
warning him against the danger of personation, and on one
occasion after he had long, apparently, been in a state of per­
plexity, Mr. Moses finally gets this information from his
control: “We have ascertained that the spirit who falsely pre­
tended to be working with us is a personating spirit, whose
aim is to injure and retard our work.” 17 Further, the grounds
upon which Mr. Moses eventually reassured himself seem to
me, I must confess, very frail. He was persuaded, he tells us,
that “no systematic course of imposture, such as the argu­
ment contemplates, would have been permitted by the con­
trolling agency” ; meaning, apparently, would have been per­
mitted by the Almighty. At the same time he admits that he
is unable to impart his own confidence to others. For him­
self, after reminding us of Tennyson’s lines: “ How pure in
heart and sound in head,” etc., he so prepares himself, we
learn, that in his “hour’s communion with the dead,” he has
the sense of rectitude which banishes fear of illusion. It is his
own good conscience which:
“ predisposes us to believe that we are not the victims of an organised
system of cruel imposture, prolonged over a period of many years,
and trifling with the most sacred subjects as well as with the tenderest
feelings of the heart. The spirit that would so act, and yet maintain
an air of sincerity, and even sublimity in tone, must surely be the very
devil transformed into an angel of light.”
Well, that is, of course, what most Catholic teachers, from
1#Stainton Moses, Spirit Identity (Ed. 1902), pp. 4 1—
42.
” Spirit Teachings (Ed. 19 18 ), p. 230.
"FRU ITAGE” OF SPIRITUALISM 367
the Fathers of the early centuries downward, do precisely say
that it is. At the same time I do not, for my own part, see or
maintain that we are in all cases constrained to accept that
view. There are other intelligences in the great beyond, for
example the souls of the unbaptised, about whose activities
we know very little. Their freakish and deceptive commun­
ications might even be meant in a friendly spirit, and might
be intended to give stimulating, if fallacious, comfort to those
in sorrow. What we do clearly know is that the voice of
Scripture and of the Church in all ages has forbidden any
attempt to communicate with the dead through unauthor­
ised channels. We further know that the employment of
mediums is a procedure rife with endless possibilities of
fraud and self-deception, while the very atmosphere of the
séance room is repellent to the healthier instincts of sane and
industrious mankind. Those who neglect these warnings,
cannot complain if they fall victims to the guile of personat­
ing spirits more skilful and persistent in simulation than the
enquirer can hope to be in penetrating their disguise. In this
game of deception there may be some bunglers on the other
side who are easily found out, but why should we suppose
them all to be bunglers?
A ppendix
PR ELIM IN A R Y N O TE
The article here reprinted first saw the light a very long
time ago in the pages of The Month (August, 1893). ^ was
signed only with the initials A.E.W ., and for a number of
years I tried in vain to discover the writer’s name. No one
could give me any information, and when I sent the printed
text to the editor of this series, along with my own manu­
script, I had not yet been able to arrive at any solution. Cur­
iously enough, however, I happened shortly afterwards to
get into correspondence over some psychic puzzle with my
friend Father Benedict Zimmerman, O.D.C., the well-known
and very learned expert in Carmelite history and mysticism.
A casual remark of his disclosed the circumstance that he
had read the article in question when it first appeared, and
that he knew the writer well. She had, in fact, been a peni­
tent of his for some years before her death; he had visited
her almost daily during her last illness, and celebrated the
Requiem Mass at her funeral before she was carried to the
grave.
He has told me that she was a Mrs. Whitehead, the daugh­
ter of a clergyman named Lysons. An uncle of hers, Sir Dan­
iel Lysons, K.C.B., was a very distinguished British general
who won fame in the Crimean War and was for a long
period “ Constable” of the Tower of London. Mrs. White-
head, it appears, had many curious psychic experiences after,
as well as before, her conversion. Tribulations also came to
her in many forms, but she remained to the end a most sin-
368
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 369
cere and edifying Catholic, dying, as Father Benedict finds
noted in his diary, at 9 a.m., on May 7, 1902. He had visited
her the evening before, but she was then unconscious. Her
husband had been taken from her early in their married
life. Her son, an only child, went to sea, and it chanced that
she lost all trace of him. She was not then a Catholic, and
tried to get information as to his whereabouts through the
planchette or the “indicator.” The answer purported to come
from the boy himself, to the effect that he was very ill and
in an institution, evidently a hospital, but otherwise quite
happy, and was being visited by a very kind gentleman. Two
or three months later, Mrs. Whitehead received a letter from
an English or English-speaking Jesuit in some town on the
west coast of South America (Father Benedict, to whom, of
course, I am indebted for all this, does not remember the
town or country) to the effect that he had attended the sailor
boy at a hospital, that, at the lad’s own request, he had re­
ceived him into the Catholic Church, and that he had died
a very pious death.
It was after this, apparently, that a mysterious influence,
which the bereaved mother in some way connected in her
mind with St. Catherine of Siena, began to teach her Cath­
olic doctrine. Let me here emphasize Mrs. Whitehead’s own
statement in the article which follows. “I cannot of course,”
she wrote, “answer for the personal identity of my saintly
instructress; neither is it possible to decide how much was
actual and objective, and how much was subjective and im­
aginative in the communication.”
One thing seems plain, that in holding intercourse, as she
did, with what she believed to be a blessed spirit from the
other world, Mrs. Whitehead was in good faith; she was not
acting against her conscience. On the contrary, she was hon­
estly seeking guidance; and it is also to be remembered that
3 7 « TH E CHURCH AN D SPIRITUALISM
even for Catholics in those days, there was as yet no explicit
prohibition of automatic writing or the planchette. That
only came in 1898. As Père Mainage, O.P., points out (in the
volume he has edited, Les Voies de Dieu/ narrating the very
similar conversion through automatic writing of Madame
Mink Jullien), God has strange ways of revealing Himself
to those who seek Him in singleness of heart.
In accord with Père Mainage, it has been my own conten­
tion throughout the present volume that man possesses mys­
terious faculties which have only begun to be studied sys­
tematically in recent times, and with regard to which we as
yet understand very little. There is, for example, such a thing
as telepathy between the living. Certain exceptional individ­
uals, independently it seems of any religious purpose, are
liable to receive strange intimations of the death or grievous
peril of those at a distance. There are circumstances again in
which men can walk through fire unscathed. The instances
of second sight with prevision of the future cannot easily be
all ascribed either to exceptional sanctity or to the operation
of the Evil One, and many intelligent investigators are con­
vinced that water-finding by the divining rod has an objec­
tive basis and is not merely a figment of the imagination.
Finally, automatic writing and the seeing of visions in a
crystal appear to be faculties which come to some people
almost spontaneously but are withheld from the majority.
All these powers are as yet but little understood, but we must
recognise that the sphere of the unknown — of the occult, in
other words — is precisely that in which the spirits of dark­
ness most readily find opportunity for their evil activities.
For this reason the Church may very wisely forbid her chil­
dren to court danger by practises which may render them
'It has been translated into English as The Ways of God (London: Burns and
Oates).
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 371
easy victims to the wiles of their spiritual enemy. But is it,
asks Père Mainage, beyond the bounds of probability that
God should sometimes use these same ill-understood powers
for the benefit of a soul whom He wishes to save, while leav­
ing in their case no room for any sort of diabolical interven­
tion ? God is supremely merciful and we cannot be surprised
if He should adapt His action to those conditions which give
His grace the easiest means of approach to one who simply
and honestly seeks to be guided.
That St. Catherine of Siena had anything to do with the
instruction of Mrs. Whitehead can neither be affirmed nor
denied. The saint would certainly not have revealed herself
to one who sought her aid by disobeying the commands of
lawful authority. But this was a very different case. On the
other hand, no one will contest that the “voices” of St. Joan
of Arc were in truth of heavenly origin. But was it really St.
Margaret, as she believed, who among others spoke to her
and guided her? About that there is no certainty. St. Mar­
garet was venerated in the church of Domremy, but this St.
Margaret is, so hagiographers tell us, one of the most myth­
ical of saints. Let it suffice for us that God may convey His
intimations to the soul through channels which He knows
will safely bear His message, even though misinterpretation
may possibly follow as to the manner in which the message
has been delivered.
A CO N VERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM
An article from The Month for August, 1893.
The story of each “pilgrim’s progress,” from that special
“house upon the sand,” wherein he happened to be born, or
which he had constructed for himself, towards the House,
built by the Living God upon a rock, has its own individual
372 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
interest, not only as a human document, but even more, as
being a record of the dealings of God with that particular
soul.
Yet there has been a certain underlying similarity, beneath
wide differences of character and circumstance, in most ac­
counts of the conversions of educated English men and
women, since the time of the Oxford movement, arising
from the fact that such converts have been, for the most part,
earnest and devout Anglicans of one type or another. Among
such, with whatever divergencies and idiosyncrasies, a com­
mon if vague idea of the existence of a right road, could it
but be discovered, has been already present to their minds,
and, as many sought it simultaneously, they found cheer and
comfort by the way. But the brief history now to be related,
is that of one who groped on, alone beneath the stars,
through strange untrodden paths, out of the beaten track;
yet, who was wonderfully led into God’s Church; now,
many years ago.
For me, as for one of old, the fiat had gone forth: “ Behold
I take from thee the desire of thy eyes with a stroke” ; and I
was alone, and desolate. My short marriage had been perfect
in its love and sympathy, and life without my husband
seemed unendurable; but a little child was left me, and for
his sake I resisted the longing to turn my face to the wall
and die.
I had not ceased to believe in “ God, the Father Almighty,”
nor in “the life everlasting” ; but these two articles may be
said to have comprised my creed. Everything else had be­
come to me more or less shadowy and uncertain.
I had been brought up in the Church of England, but I
had never felt any loyalty or allegiance to her, or attraction
toward any section of Anglican opinion, and all assumption
of authority by either party roused in me indignation and re-
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 373
bellion. I felt it illogical, that religious submission should be
demanded by any Protestant institution, the fundamental
basis of Protestantism being the right of private judgment in
matters of faith. I had always been conscious of a sort of dis­
tant awe and reverence for the great Church of Rome,
though I knew nothing of her doctrines; moreover, her
poetry and art appealed to my love of the beautiful; but I
shrank from her claim to authority, having an intense dread
of dogmatism and domination, and regarding truth entirely
from a subjective point of view.
In miracles, visions, and apparitions, whether of angels, or
of the departed, I had sorrowfully ceased to believe; because
it appeared to me undoubted, that God being always the
same God, and His laws the same and changeless, that which
had happened could happen again, and in all probability
would do so; therefore, being accustomed to hear it asserted,
or taken for granted that since Apostolic times the super­
natural had ceased to influence this earth, I came to regard
Biblical statements of such occurrences as mythical embodi­
ments of some moral or spiritual lesson; and belief in their
actuality, as the superstition of simpler ages.
Nevertheless, I was in good faith, and was ready and anx­
ious to follow any gleam of light, at any cost, and, so light
was sent me, in what would seem an exceptional manner,
although I am by no means a solitary instance of conversion
to the Church through what is called “Spiritualism.”
The main difference between all that is included under
that comprehensive title, and the possibilities of communica­
tion between the living and the dead, believed in by Cath­
olics, consists, so far as I apprehend the question, chiefly in
this: that in what goes by the name of “Spiritualism,” a cer­
tain conscious initiative is taken on the human side, with
direct intent to induce manifestations from beings out of the
374 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
flesh, whereas, all intercourse between the seen and the un­
seen, in Catholic records, has been apparently, and certainly
so far as the consciousness of the recipient extended, com­
menced and carried out, solely and entirely, from the invis­
ible world, without his consent or desire. Upon the hypo­
thesis of the unconscious fulfilment of conditions, I will not
enter now. The character of such communications has nec­
essarily been much more elevated. I am referring here to
visits from and words spoken by souls in purgatory, for it
is hardly necessary to say that Divine revelations to the saints,
visions and apparitions of our Blessed Lady, or of Angels,
stand on a much more exalted footing, and it is not to such
that I venture to make allusion. It has always been recog­
nized by Catholic writers, that mysticism has its diabolic
side, its natural side, and its divine side, and that it is not
easy to distinguish at once between these; or to be quite
sure where one merges into, or is superseded by another. Im­
mense caution has consequently been recommended by the­
ologians, and has been practised by such Catholics as in dif­
ferent ages have been led through strange experiences. Even
with the safeguards of true doctrine, and true sacraments,
intercourse with the unseen has always been attended with
considerable danger, on account of the subtlety of evil spirits,
for, as St. Paul tells us, “ Satan transformed himself into an
angel of light.”
In the preternaturalism of the present day, outside the
Church, there are many shades and grades and degrees and
differences, included under the general name of “ Spiritual­
ism” ; but I think it scarcely possible to overstate, or to exag­
gerate, its many and fearful perils. Such only as have penetrat­
ed deeply into its arcana, can form any, even approximate,
idea of these. That gifted and clever, but unhappily deluded
man, Lawrence Oliphant, speaks most emphatically of the
risks incurred by those attending séances, and this quite apart
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 375
from other objections that might be urged by a Catholic as to
Scriptural or ecclesiastical prohibitions.
To return to my own history. Not very long after my hus­
band died, when I was hungering and thirsting for some
sign of his presence, for some evidence that he still lived and
loved me, I began to hear Spiritualism discussed, and I read
eagerly and listened earnestly, so as to obtain all the informa­
tion I could. I gathered from sincere and enlightened en­
quirers into the subject, that with all its deep and absorbing
interest, there was always much uncertainty. Mediums, they
said, were occasionally deceptive, but were more often them­
selves deceived; conditions not being as yet well understood,
they were not reliable, many factors combining to make up
what is called Spiritualism, among these thought reading,
the dual action of the brain, and the unconscious influence
of mind upon mind, whether in the circle or at a distance;
each and all causing additional complications; and finally,
the identity of the spirits communicating, was not to be easily
verified, owing partly to the imperfection of processes, and
partly to the audacity and falsehoods of evil spirits, who did
not hesitate to take any names, and to pass themselves off as
those with whom intercourse was desired. A frame of mind
as patient and as passive as might be possible was therefore
advised. I was given to understand that the need for a me­
dium arose from the fact that the spirits could only exert
their influence and action in and through a magnetic atmos­
phere, rarer and finer than the palpable one with which we
are surrounded, and in which we breathe and live; and that
mediums were simply persons possessing an unusually large
amount of this force, a subtle and etherialized form of elec­
tricity, the spirits being able to collect from such persons suf­
ficient power to aid them to come into contact with other
human beings not thus gifted.
I became most anxious to find some medium, but had no
376 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
idea how to accomplish it, when an unexpected way was
opened to me under very pleasant and desirable circumstanc­
es. A lady I knew told me she would like to introduce me to
an old friend of hers, who, together with her daughter, was
investigating Spiritualism in a very serious and religious
manner. Accordingly, the introduction was effected, and the
old lady kindly begged me to go and pay them a visit.
Mrs. R. (as I will call her) and her daughter Margaret had
been originally Unitarians, as was our mutual friend and in­
troducer, but at the time I made their acquaintance they
were Christian dissenters, the spirits having declared to them
the Divinity of our Lord.
I may here add, that Margaret eventually became a Cath­
olic under the same influences which helped me to become
one, although some time after my reception, and she has re­
mained a thoroughly good and faithful child of the Church
for now more than twelve years, having baptised her mother
on her deathbed, and instructed many in the Faith. I make
a point of mentioning this, because I have seen it stated, not
only that spiritualists seldom become Catholics (which is
probably true, though I think many would do so if they
could be brought under Catholic influences), but that in the
rare instances of apparent conversion, they have always gone
back. I can only say that this is distinctly contradicted by
facts within my own knowledge.
The séances held at Mrs. R.’s house were entirely private,
and were attended by no professional medium, but several of
the habitués possessed considerable magnetic force, which
had been developed and increased by these frequent meet­
ings. There was, in particular, a certain Mr. B., a member
of the congregation to which my friends belonged, who had
very extraordinary powers. He used to fall into a sort of
trance, appearing like one dead, pale and livid, and then
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 377
would suddenly start up, gazing straight before him into
space, with eyes that had in them no speculation, and would
begin to speak in voices quite other than and distinct from
his own, voices of men, of women, and of children, voices
refined and cultured, and voices coarse and rough, he being
all the time entirely unconscious of what was being spoken
through him. Occasionally a voice would be recognized by
friends of the departed individual from whom it professed
to emanate, but often the voices were those of strangers, com­
ing for the most part to implore prayers. I afterwards saw
this “trance mediumship,” as it is called, in several other in­
stances, especially in that of a German lady, now dead —
an interesting person, of sensitive temperament and religious
aspiration, who had come out of Calvinism through the
teachings of her disembodied friends, and who was gradually
learning Catholic doctrines. Her husband used to write down
what she said in her trances; much, often, to her own sur­
prise on reading what had been set down.
Mr. B. the mediumistic guest of Mrs. R. and her daughter,
could also sometimes see and describe spirits in the room,
and could see places and persons at a distance, in a crystal.
On the first evening that I joined their circle, he said to
me, “ I see a spirit standing near you, in the dress of a priest.
He says he is a priest. He belongs to your family. His name is
H----- . He has been a long time in the other world. He
wants you to pray for him. He takes a great interest in you.”
I, who yearned above all things for communication with my
husband, was, although interested, somewhat disappointed,
and exclaimed with some vexation, that I knew nothing of
any such person, and that there were no priests in my family.
“ He says there were once priests belonging to it,” Mr. B. re­
plied, “and he affirms that he belongs to your family.” Cur­
iously enough, it was not until afterwards, when I had been
378 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a Catholic perhaps about ten years, that I chanced upon some
family documents mentioning a collateral ancestor, of the
name given by Mr. B., who was the last abbot of a certain
Cistercian monastery in the reigns of Henry VII and Henry
VIII.2 A voice, certainly like that of my husband, spoke
words of comfort to me later on that evening, through Mr.
B.’s mediumship, which gave me consolation for the
moment, but I could have no possible certainty of identity.
Messages purporting to come from him were also written
during my visit, through the hands of another guest of my
hostess — one who was then, and still is, a good religious
person, but who has never come into the Church. Margaret
and I also received messages said to be from my husband,
and also from many spirits, spelt out on what was called an
“indicator,” upon which we used to place our hands. Some
of these messages were beautiful, explanatory, and helpful,
but occasionally deceptions were attempted. We were bidden
always to make the sign of the cross before entering into
these communications, and to request any spirit, wishing to
spell a message, to move the indicator in the form of a cross,
as they said that evil spirits were unable to make the holy
sign. We found this a great protection, but still I think we
were sometimes deluded, unless it might have been, that we
perhaps did not always accurately obtain a message as it was
intended.
I recollect particularly, that on one occasion, when a friend
of mine and I had our hands on the indicator, a spirit en­
deavoured to communicate with me which professed to be
that of my husband. This, for several reasons I doubted, and,
in accordance with the directions we had received, we both
"I may add, that I am the first Catholic in my family since the Reformation.
Supposing the communication to have been genuine, this might account for the
interest expressed.
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 379
made the sign of the cross in order to test the character of the
spirit. Yet it still persisted in the assertion. Still dubious of
the identity, and conscious of a distressing influence, I said:
“ I charge you to speak the truth in the name of the Blessed
Trinity.” Instantly the movement of the indicator ceased,
though our hands remained upon it. After some minutes it
began again to spell, though very slowly, and, as it were,
painfully: “ I am one of the unhappy beings whom you
would call a devil.” At that time I was not a Catholic and
did not know that for such there could be no redemption,
so I replied: “You will always be miserable if you try to de­
ceive.” “ I like to deceive people,” was the answer. “But,” I
said, “You will be always unhappy in so doing.” “Are you
yourself saved from misery?” asked the evil Spirit. “I hope I
am saved,” I rejoined, “from such misery as yours.” Then the
spirit spelt out, “ Ha! ha! ha!” and both my friend and I had
a gruesome impression as of the mocking laughter of a fiend.
In this instance, even the sign of the cross was insufficient
to compel the truth; but, adjuration in the name of the
Blessed Trinity prevailed, as it has in many similar cases. I
think St. Teresa says she found that some evil spirits were
wicked enough to resist the cross. If St. Teresa, who was a
great saint, was exposed to attempts of the devil to deceive
her, which were intermingled with the revelations she re­
ceived from Almighty God and the messengers of heaven,
how much more will this be the case with those who are not
saints and who are stumbling alone in the darkness of error,
even though they may be in good faith and honestly search­
ing after truth. I say nothing of those who hold these com­
munications with the unseen world, not from any good mo­
tive, but out of morbid curiosity and with a half-guilty con­
sciousness of the “influence” to which they are subject, be­
ing no heaven-sent messenger. They must expect to be made
380 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
the sport of the malicious spirits whose delight is to deceive,
and who will avail themselves of their superior powers and
knowledge to impart to them just that amount of informa­
tion that will earn their confidence, in order that they may
the more completely lead them astray respecting all that con­
cerns their highest interest and the welfare of their souls.
A ll the séances at Mrs. R.’s were begun by prayer and the
singing of hymns, by the special desire of the spirits present.
They invariably begged to be prayed for, as did nearly al­
ways all the spirits with whom I was brought into contact
during my investigations, in other places, and through other
mediums. This fact struck me very much, and was, indeed,
the first ray of light which flashed across my path. “ Is not
this the Roman Catholic doctrine of purgatory and of prayer
for the dead?” I asked of a spirit. “Yes, and it is true,” was
the reply. The spirits literally beset us with entreaties for
prayers. Some of them appeared very unhappy, greatly la­
menting the selfish and useless or sinful lives they had led
upon earth, and which they were now expiating. “Are you
in heaven?” we would sometimes enquire of one whose
words were more hopeful, and whose influence was sweet
and peaceful. “ Oh, no, not yet — but I soon shall be, if you
will pray,” was once the answer.
And so we prayed for the dead for the first time in our
lives! Gradually many other Catholic truths were taught to
Margaret and to me, spelt out by the indicator, but we were
so ignorant of the doctrines that we did not always under­
stand them, or recognize their full import at the time,
though we began to wonder whether, as the Church of
Rome was apparently considerably right, it might not be ac­
tually possible that she should be right in a good deal more.
And what if she should be altogether right, and be the one
true teacher!
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 381
I have heard that Mr. B. also became a Catholic eventually,
but as my friends, the R.’s, lost sight of him when he left
their neighbourhood, I am not sure of the fact.
Another old friend, at present a professed nun, who has
been a Catholic more than twenty years, often joined me in
my enquiries into Spiritualism at the period of which I am
writing, chiefly by putting her hand with mine on the indi­
cator to obtain the spelling of messages. Quite recently I paid
her a visit at her convent, and, as we were talking over the
“ Auld Lang Syne,” before the conversion of either of us, and
wondering at our dreads and difficulties in those now dim
and distant days, she recalled to my mind an incident that
had escaped my memory (though I now remember it per­
fectly), as to a communication we had received, in reply to a
question of hers as to whether the Church of England was
preferable to other forms of religion, as she believed it then
to be, meaning, of course, to Protestant sects, the Catholic
Church being entirely outside her region of thought. “All
these Churches fall short of the ideal,” was the reply; “the
Roman Catholic Church is the true religion.” Upon this, my
friend immediately exclaimed: “Now, I know that this is
not a reliable message!” Yet she says she never forgot this
testimony, and considers that it indirectly helped in her con­
version.
I never had much medium-power myself, except with the
indicator, which used to spell very rapidly under my hands;
and I had also what my friends called “an impressional
gift,” consisting in a strange, sudden, inward apprehension
of some Catholic dogma, quite new and unknown to me,
sometimes with, and sometimes without, words interiorly
spoken. I mention this because it is connected with a re­
markable incident which considerably aided my conversion.
On leaving the R.’s, I went to London on a visit, and saw
382 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
a great deal of Spiritualism, of all kinds, some of which was
decidedly undesirable, and dangerous even from the point
of view of a non-Catholic; but I was now determined to go
fully and thoroughly into the subject. I also met and became
intimately acquainted with some of the most enlightened
and intellectual leaders of the movement, who were in reality
rather mystics of the school of Böhmen, Jung, Stilling, Ober-
lin, and others, than ordinary spiritualists. By one of these
earnest and thoughtful persons, I was lent an old Italian
Life of St. Catherine of Siena, which took a great hold upon
me, so much so, that I began to invoke her, asking of her
instruction as well as intercession. And from this time I came
gradually to see more clearly, and to accept Catholic doctrine
in a way very wonderful, considering that I had never seen a
priest, or read any dogmatic Catholic book, or spoken to any
Catholic in the flesh.
One day I went to a séance with some friends, two of
whom were High Church clergymen, at the house of a well-
known medium. Answers to enquiries were spelt out by raps
on the table, floor, and, indeed, all over the room. Questions
having been asked on theological matters by the two clergy­
men, especially concerning the Real Presence, and some con­
fusion in the answers having arisen, I said, “May I tell you
what has been told to me?” As I repeated what had been
given me by “impression,” I was accompanied by a perfect
chorus of raps. “ Is she right?” asked one of the clergymen.
“ Yes, yes, yes,” from all parts of the room. “ How does she
know this ?” “ Because a very high spirit, called Catherine, is
teaching her.” “Who is this Catherine?” said one of my
friends to me. I replied, “ I have been reading the Life of
St. Catherine of Siena!’ “Yes, yes, yes,” came again from the
invisible chorus. The impressional message received by me
concerning transubstantiation was, as I afterwards found
CONVERT THROUGH SPIRITUALISM 383
when more fully instructed, entirely in accordance with
Catholic doctrine. I cannot, of course, answer for the per­
sonal identity of my saintly instructress, neither is it possible
to decide how much was actual and objective, and how
much subjective and imaginative, in the communication, nor
have I the least idea who constituted the consenting chorus.
I simply chronicle the circumstances.
From this time I began to go to Mass, and left off attend­
ing Anglican services, but I knew no Catholics, and had not
the remotest idea of how to put myself in communication
with a priest. I have often since heard priests say, that it is
quite easy for Protestants to go and see them, if they wish
for instruction; and so, literally speaking, it certainly is, but
I think they hardly realize the unseen barriers of hesitation,
uncertainty, and general difficulty which stand between an
ordinary Protestant and a Roman Catholic priest, whom pre­
judice and tradition have represented as a very awful per­
sonage. I was, however, received into the Church, about six
months after this episode, by a very experienced and remark­
able priest, now dead, to whom I was made known by an
American lady, herself a convert to Catholicism through the
teachings of the spirits, a friend of the person who lent me
the Life of St. Catherine. Her occult experiences far trans­
cend mine in interest, and she came into the Church in a
much more marvellous manner. She died a few years ago,
after receiving the sacraments, an undoubted instance of the
perseverance of a former spiritualist. I should like to relate
many of the wonderful things she told me about her conver­
sion, but space fails, so I will only say in passing that it would
seem to have been chiefly the work of Jesuit and Franciscan
martyrs, who appeared to her and taught her, she being ut­
terly ignorant not only of the Catholic religion, but of any
form of Christianity, though very desirous of truth at any
384 TH E CHURCH AND SPIRITUALISM
price, and from whatever quarter. Her husband, and some
friends, impressed by these extraordinary manifestations, fol­
lowed in her footsteps, and were also received in America
— I believe by a Jesuit Father.3
I have only been able, in this sketch, to furnish a few broad
outlines of strange facts, which to some may seem startling,
but which I hold to be less unusual than is ordinarily sup­
posed, for God is very good to souls who seek Him.
A.E.W.
’ As the reader can hardly fail to surmise, this American lady was undoubtedly
no other than Mrs. Mary S. Gove Nichols, the wife of Dr. T . L. Nichols, whose
story has been told in Chapter III. I have some reason to think that “ the
very experienced and remarkable priest,” to whom Mrs. Whitehead was in­
troduced and by whom she was received into the Church was Father John Dobree
Dalgairns, of the London Oratory, a conspicuous figure in the Oxford Movement.
Like Cardinal Manning and W. G. Ward, Father Dalgairns was an active mem­
ber of the Metaphysical Society in which these Catholics met and debated amic­
ably the profoundest questions of religion and philosophy with Huxley, Henry
Sidgwick, Frederic Harrison, Tennyson, Ruskin, Dr. Martineau, Tyndall, Shad-
worth Hodgson, R. H. Hutton and many others equally eminent in the world
of letters. See the account given by Mr. Wilfrid Ward in Chatper XII of his book
William George Ward and the Catholic Revival. On page 3 10 of that work, we may
read how Dr. James Martineau, the famous Unitarian divine, wrote in a private
letter: “ for myself I can say that if I had gained nothing from the Metaphysical
Society but the impression of Father Dalgairns’s personality, I should have been
forever grateful to it.” H. T.
S _ C I E N C E A N D C U L T U R E S E R I E S
" J O S E P H H U S S L E I N , S.J., Ph.D., G E N E R A L E D I T O R
Anthropology
C u l t u r a l A nthropology
By Albert Muntsch, S.J.
Apologetics
T h e C h u r ch and S p ir it u a lism
By Herbert Thurston, S.J.
T h e F orgotten G od
By the Most Rev. Francis C. Kelley, D.D., LL.D .
T h e Q u est io n and th e A nsw er
By Hilaire Belloc
’ A rt and Architecture
C h u r c h A rch itecture
Building for a living faith
By Frank Brannach
Biography
E r a sm u s
By Christopher Hollis
St . A l be r t t h e G reat
By Thomas M. Schwertner, O.P.
St . A n se lm
By Joseph Clayton, F.H.Hist.S.
Church History
T h e C h u r c h in t h e S o uth A m erican R epublics
By Edwin Ryan, D.D.
Education
T h e J e s u it s a n d E d u c a t io n
By W illiam J. M cGucken, S.J., Ph.D.
History
C h a p t e r s in F r o n t ie r H ist o r y
B y Gilbert Garraghan, S.J., Ph.D .
T h e O xfo rd M o v e m e n t
By Shane Leslie
Literature
A C h e e r f u l A sc e t ic
and other essays
By James J. Daly, S.J.
D a n t e ’s D r e a m of L if e
and other medieval studies
By Katherine Bregy
W h ist l e s of S ilv e r
By Helen Parry Eden
Psychology
E x p e r im e n t a l P syc h o lo g y
By Hubert Gruender, S.J., Ph.D .
Scripture
T h e G o spel G u id e
B y W illiam A . D ow d, S.J., L.S.Scr.
T h e M e m o ir s o f S t . P e t e r
By James A . Kleist, S.J., Ph.D.
Sociology
T h e G o spel in A ctio n
By Paul R. Martin
A S u r v e y of S o cio logy
By E. J. Ross
T h e C h r is t ia n S o c ia l M a n ife st o
By Joseph Husslein, S.J., Ph.D.
T h e U n e m p l o y m e n t P r o b l em
By Thurber M . Smith, S.J., L L .B ., Ph.D.
Other titles in preparation
