{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__rockwell___riches_manifest.pdf","mytitle":"Riches Manifest","mylang":"de"}
COPYRIGHT, I9J3
BY MAUDE ROCKWELL
Gin OF
AUTHOR
PRINTED IN U. t. A.
Table of Qontents
PAGE
God 7
The Wealth Consciousness 10
Conscious, Sub-conscious and Super-conscious Mind . 14
Necessity as a Creating Agent 19
Opportunity 24
Visualization 28
Acceleration 31
Non-Resistance 35
Positiveness 39
The Habit of Shifting Blame 43
Love 47
Tithing H
Judgment and Discrimination 57
8988 S J
JL-^esire made manifest through the knowledge of
God; this is the story of human life.
The desire for success creates a bright, powerful
aura that envelopes you with a wave of dominant
optimism and assurance, and a steady consciousness of
success and prosperity that cannot be broken through.
This desire will in time bring to you all things that you
have visualized, for the desire is the underlying quality
back of all human activity. Desire is an inward motive
that works outward, and so it is not hampered by the
outer.
Desire sets in motion the attractive forces. There is
no limit to your possibilities through this ardent fiery
desire which like an unquenchable hunger will be fed.
Wishing alone does nothing. There must be the
energy that makes one reach out for the thing desired.
We are told a story of a sage, who was asked by a stu
dent: "Sir, what must I do to become wise?" At
length the sage took him down to the river, and held
him under the water, in spite of his struggles. After
releasing him, the sage asked: "Son, when you were
under the water, what did you desire most?" Regain
ing his breath, the student replied: "Air, air, airI Sir,
I wanted only and thought only of air!" Then said
the sage: "To become wise, you must desire Wisdom
with as great intensity as you just now desired Air."
Yes, you must struggle to the exclusion of every
thing else for the desire of your heart to manifest.
7
RICHES MANIFEST
'
-:
"
*.': ; : *
There -is ;no desire without the possibility of its satis
faction' and attainment, providing you follow the law.
God, as Substance, is molded to your desire by this
concentration on an idea. For all there
is,
is
God.
Omnipotence: All Power, means that nothing can
alter God. Use this in producing your desire, by will
ing yourself to accomplish that to which you give
thought. God
is
as much concerned with you as
a
producing principle, or
a
personal individual, as He
was and
is
in Christ Jesus. He
is
just as much in sym
pathy with New York as He was with Jerusalem,
New or Old, for God
is
everywhere present and has
always been. Without beginning and without end.
As you take this thought for the production of
your prosperity through the vision or channel you
have named for yourself, everything that develops
points to the bringing forth of the desire, providing
you allow nothing else to cross the vision. Make any
thing opposite your desire an impossibility through
the perfect visioning of the God Mind. Connect up
God with what you have need of, in order to produce
your desire.
If
you need health, when you think of God, think
of health, and all the joy there
is
in perfect health and
its radiation, and keep on with this thought.
If
you
need prosperity, think of God as Power, unlimited,
boundless, and transferable at all times to the channel
you wish to produce through.
The moment you realize the power of the word
spoken, in and through your knowledge of God, and
what that word
is
symbolic of, you are at once in the
8
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* i
aura or vibration of the thing you want, and the con
centrated Mind Power draws this to you in material
form. It just can't help it!
You must remember that the world is ruled by
God through Law. Prayer sets in action the vibrations
in the ether, and these are caught up by the Spirit
the Mind of God. By the very intensity of the prayer
the thought formation is drawn towards you and you
receive the outer substance.
Now, in every atom God is the ruling power. And
you, as the individualized idea of God are the ruling
power for yourself, but not for the other fellow. This
is why Jesus stressed the answer: "What is that to
thee? Follow thou Me!" Turn your back on the idea
the other fellow may want you to use, and use the one
God gave you; it is the only one that belongs to you.
And turn your back also on the idea that you have to
force your idea on the other fellow; he has his own
God, or God-idea, to follow.
In this way you will find you make greater pro
gress and a bigger manifestation in everything for
you and yours; and an easier and more open channel
through which to express. Make your God Mind work
with you, not letting any other minds have power to
say "Yea" or "Nay" to the God Mind with which you
are bringing forth health or prosperity.
9
The Wealth Qonsciousness
How to Live in it
How to make it produce.
V Ye have read the story of the fig tree that was
withered by the Word of God because it was barren.
In the same way, a consciousness not productive
becomes barren, and in course of time withers and
dries up.
To acquire the wealth consciousness you must be
very sure to view all things through this Law of pro
ducing. A half -filled consciousness is like a half-baked
loaf of bread. Only part of it is usable, and in the
using of the perfect part you are forced to sacrifice
the good to do away with the half-baked.
The wealth consciousness never carries a thought
of "I have not," or "I cannot." Instead it carries: "/
have" "7 am." This continual carrying of construc
tive thinking makes the thought become, as it were,
second nature, and you find no time for the opposite.
The first idea that came to me in reading books
such as "Life and Teachings of The Masters of The
Far East" was the absolute certainty of everything
written being an accepted fact in the mind of the
writer, and every circumstance being a realization of
God's Law and not a "miracle" or an unusual instance.
It just was.
Notice the way an expressman carries a trunk.
Try and do it yourself. What makes it so easy for him?
Two things: the knowledge of how, and the fact that
10
PROSPERITY LESSONS
J 4
he is using his knowledge. What, then, makes for suc
cess in any individual? The knowledge that he is a
success, and that he is applying the principle he knows.
Wealth is Spirit, and Spirit is Wealth. This is the
God definition. It does not make any difference how
many added names there are in the family; the Eter
nal Name is Wealth. The little kittens in the basket
may be male or female, but they are kittens!
Wealth expresses through whatever idea you are
harboring in consciousness. I have a wealth conscious
ness: then I must be thinking of wealth in the words
and pictures that represent in the outer the vision 1
receive when I think or speak them while thinking
wealth. Thus I attract wealth in my surroundings,
my friends, my ideas.
Wealthy people, whether recognized as such or
not, will not take up residence with poverty-thought
people, no matter how much they may love them per
sonally. The poor, contracted thought hampers them
from the free expression of their own greater con
sciousness.
The greater the consciousness, the greater will you
become, and the more able to create in the outer. To
hold this creative consciousness there must be no
adulteration of the first perfect seed of greatness. No
substitute for the perfect article is accepted in the
Spirit consciousness or Mind consciousness wherein
God is actively at work. The gardener is never ready
to receive diseased plants in his perfect garden. Better
wait until the perfect can be brought forth. Haste
has brought forth many an inferior article. "I must
11
RICHES MANIFEST
* i
do something," says the anxious one, "I must have
some return on this or that." So they produce that
often-quoted "Half-baked Bread."
Write down what you consider the greatest thing
in the way of wealth. Many will say, the wealth of a
healthy body; some will only see wealth in money;
others again, riches of harmony or Love.
Let us take the thought of a wealthy consciousness
for perfect health. How shall you plant, or make
ready to plant the first seed for health; by making
null and void, by the power of the spoken word; the
old records of lack of ease.
Affirm: I make null and void, by the power of my
spoken word God speaking in and through me
every old record of disease and separation from God-
health.
Use this affirmation for the erasing of everything
that keeps you from expressing perfection to yourself ;
use it for health, harmony, success, or whatever you
are working to bring forth into the outer.
The wealth consciousness never sees a thing as it is
in the outer, but as it is in the spirit mind or perfect
Christ picture.
The great worker in the wealth consciousness is
like a service station. It is a never-failing energy that
improves with use. The more service is given, the
more the wealth consciousness increases and desires to
give forth. Suppression of service through fear of let
ting go, creates the proverbial poverty consciousness!
On the other hand, the continual desire to serve, freely
expressed, becomes in time a Christ condition of mind;
12
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i {
and the constant thinking of the desire attracts to you
the wealth with which to serve, whether in love, har
mony, health or money. Like creates like, and multi
plies and increases it. But, in order to get the second
and third crops, we must plant the first seed.
The Thought Consciousness is magnified by con
centration; by picturing the thing desired and nothing
else; by not seeing the opposite under any circum
stances.
There are three rules necessary to abide by in seek
ing the Wealth Consciousness.
First: Do not seek from the outer vision. Spirit
Mind governs, and not Man Mind. Spirit creates
through the thought placed in your mind. You do
not create; you are the user.
Second: Use the thought that the creative Spirit
gives you. Nothing happens by chance. Your own
laws are set in motion by your own thinking and us
ing. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he," in his
heart-mind.
Last, and most important believe in yourself. Your
belief starts the Spirit Power working for you. All is
within yourself. Remember the spider and his spin
ning; the endless thread that comes from Within out.
Never forget. Obstacles Without are from Obstacles
Within. You cannot have an overflow of water from
an empty bucket!
Clear the Within. "Make clean first the inside of
the platter!"
13
Qonscious
jSub-conscious &
Super-conscious ^hCind
JL am going to give you the definition that will most
clearly express to you the inner idea in relationship to
the practical working out of the principle.
The conscious mind: the mind that receives from
without.
The sub-conscious mind: the intuitive soul mind,
or memory mind, that works on suggestion of the
conscious mind, and draws all like things from the
memory part to support the outer production.
The super-conscious mind: the mind that involves
knowledge and insight or experience of a kind tran
scending the possibilities of human consciousness.
These definitions if thoroughly studied will pro
duce a talisman; a mode for the expressing, or press
ing out, of everything for your advancement into the
realization that all things are possible.
The conscious mind is the acting mind; and what
is active is also re-active. You speak your word. It
returns to you, in the same way as the echo comes
back from the valley between mountains.
There are two facts to be held in mind at all times.
One is that every sub-conscious action is the re-action of
or from the conscious mind, and this produces an ex
pression on the individual or thing set in vibration to it.
The other fact
is,
that the deeper the thought or
conviction of
a
thing
is,
through the conscious mind,
14
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i f
the deeper will be the print on the sub-conscious mind,
for that is rich in mentality.
The sub-conscious mind has been called "The
Great Within." There are more riches buried there
than could be unearthed through untold re-incarna
tions! The sooner, therefore, you get to work to
draw on these riches by implanting your desires or
ambitions on the conscious mind, the better off you
will be.
The poverty idea is an outward expression of
thoughts planted there by fear of ability to produce,
or by allowing limitation in vision and thought.
The first law for success is to learn to think con
structively, not only for and about yourself, but also
for and about others. So long as you know the power of
registration through conscious thinking, you are able to
call up what you want, and not what you do not want.
But you must stick to what you call for, and not
make provision to open other doors or channels. By
so doing, you give a counter order; and as the sub
conscious mind has all things needed to complete your
production from within itself, your production will
suffer according to your change of thought.
No matter what your present environment or cir
cumstances may be, you are able, in fact it is your
duty, to change it for the better by allowing your
sub -conscious to work on the changed plans, and by
the absolute letting go of all other ideas that held for
you before.
Don't bother with denials. Take the affirmative of
what you want. It wants you!
IS
RICHES MANIFEST
* *
Use all the depth of feeling possible, in a firm,
steady way. Don't shock your vibration by voicing
fear.
When things are going seemingly wrong, impress
upon the sub-conscious in the most vital manner of
which you are capable, the idea as you want it to come
forth.
Use mental joy and sunshine, and keep it going!
This will draw to you every force from the Soul or
Memory Mind that is needed, and soon you will see
the perfect produced, instead of the imperfect.
When you are about to do something that seems to
demand more power than you have before used, call
on this sub-conscious mind for greater, higher power.
Call for the best and better still! There is always more
than we know of. Wait a few moments, and then
start forth fearlessly.
This power will at once begin to work for you in
such a way that nothing can stop you from coming
into your own! Keep impressing and re-impressing
upon the sub-conscious this added power. The in
crease will continue until there is a wonder in your
heart at the super-abundance of power and strength
that you are expressing.
As a noted teacher says: "Begin to live in the Great
Within!" And see how the Great Within will begin to
pour its manifestation on the Without. Begin, and
desire, and desire, and desire! Every one develops ac
cording to his desire, for this is the key to the sub
conscious. The greater the desire, and the more you
impress the mind with that desire, the greater will be
16
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* i
your unfoldment in the outer. Call continually for
production, and call all the time I
Don't be afraid to name the time for your sub
conscious mind to produce. Don't be uncertain. God
rules the Universe through Divine Order, and the sub
conscious mind, being a part of this great Universe,
and a big part, is able to live up to principle.
Don't begin to slip in a substitute. There are no
such things in God's kingdom. Always let the mind
know how much power is needed, and what the power
is for. This is very essential.
Make the conscious hold the very highest concep
tion of the idea that is being impressed, and the clearer
the picture on the conscious mind, the greater and
surer the production. Remember, whatever the impres
sion calls for, the sub-conscious will supply. The super-
conscious mind has it waiting, and through the power
of the thinking it is brought into active vibration for
you. Don't let anything else cross the vision. This is
very necessary, in fact, indispensable for success.
The greatest work is done by the sub -conscious
mind when the conscious mind is off duty. The con
scious mind must clear all channels, and give the sub
conscious the thought that it wishes carried out. The
more perfect the detail given, and the more complete
the plan laid out for working, the easier and more
quickly the sub-conscious will produce.
Charge the sub-conscious mind, always in Love,
and in the knowledge that you are working for the
Father, not only to give you the very best material in
ideas and plans, but also to give you the very best ways
17
RICHES MANIFEST
> <
and means of expressing these ideas in the outer. This
mind will give you power and ability to create through
your work and in your work that magnetic some
thing that will make people seek you and appreciate
all you do.
Remember, the sub-conscious is unlimited! You,
therefore, if in the right vibration, can make yourself
a channel of unlimited expression, whether of wealth,
health, happiness, or whatever may be your ideal.
Direct the sub-conscious to express what may be
necessary in order to take the next step forward. Con
centrate all the forces of mind on that step, and do not
go beyond until you have made the vision plain and
perfect. Then, hold it! One step at a time, holding
the perfect, completed image in mind, and then tak
ing the next step as the former one is finished.
But have the perfect blue print before you to
direct from]
God is power.
Power lies in the mind.
Power is generated and called forth by concentra
tion and the realization of oneness.
18
T\(ecessity as a Qt'eating Jlgmt
Opening the TDoor
~ by Pushing
KJo many people never come into the greatness of
Life, nor do they realize what they are capable of
until necessity has pushed them forth.
So many make the plea: "I have never had to do
anything," or: "I have never had any training." This
state is brought about by laziness of mind. As long as
you feel you will not do this or that because there is
no particular motive to do so, or you are not forced to
tackle
it,
you will not go very far.
Remember the man with the ten talents; the truest
story that was ever written. These talents were given
out to several men. The one who was ambitious made
the most of what was given him, letting go of all fear
that
it
would be lost. The other wrapped his talent in
a
napkin; kept
it
out of sight. There was no thought
of praise or love or joy, or anything constructive, in
the hiding away of what had been given him. So the
vibrant quality within the gift died.
Necessity makes us very keen to call on the unex
plored parts of the mentality. Nine times out of ten,
inventions and other works of genius are brought
forth by sheer necessity. You hear one say: "I just
must put this over!" This declares the law through
his material vision, and he
is
driven to action by fear.
But there
is
no must in God's Kingdom. "/ am" or
19
RICHES MANIFEST
i i
"I will" would release the tenseness, and start the idea
towards you in a gentle manner.
When you have a need that must be met, it is be
cause you have not used that which was given you at
the right time, or else you have used it wrongly. Ap
plying the law of God at all times releases you from a
need for any certain thing, and keeps you in a state of
receptivity to make the contact. It is because you do
not keep yourself in a keen, vibrant state, that the
things you need do not become connected with you.
Therein necessity makes you look out, and look up!
Remember: it was the loss of the setting hen that
brought forth the idea of the incubator, and brought
unlimited wealth to the woman whose necessity drove
her to use her "unexplored mentality."
Back of every seeming loss or letting go is the
Divine Mind, with its gold mine of unopened ideas.
When you refuse to sit down and hold the empty cup,
you don't get filled with new ideas. But when you do
hold the empty cup to Divine Mind in the Silence,
you receive a new, fresh, vital knowledge from the
new-filled cup that replaces the seemingly empty one.
The contents have only been withdrawn by the power
of the all-present Divine Mind, in order that a better
and more perfect measure may be given to God's ideas.
As long as a door is open, and all things flowing
easily to you through
it,
you do not notice the door.
But when
it
shuts, you realize that
//
has been open.
So
it
is
with Divine Supply. As long as
it
comes, you
do not seek to trace the channel; but when the chan
nel closes, you get busy. This
is
because the necessity
20
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* i
arises for you to do something. The sooner you start,
the sooner shall you receive, and the less time is allowed
for the congealing of the God idea through inaction.
Why do you eat? You are taught that it is neces
sary to do so, in order to keep alive. How many stop
to think of cause and effect? Not many, unless it be
comes necessary to them. If you continually hold in
mind the necessity for activity in God's Kingdom, you
cannot be stopped when the need for instant decision
or action presents itself. This opens the door for neces
sity to stir the unknown depths, and unfold from
within what has always been waiting for you. The
greater the necessity in the outer, the more you will
strive to produce through this man-made Law of Sup
ply. When you fail to get the result from outer con
tacts that you expect, you turn to the within, and
then God opens the door to the Right Idea for you.
Not until the need has been made known, will the
Door of Divine Mind open!
We are told over and over again this truth: "Ask
and ye shall receive." If you will look over the situa
tion as it is today in all branches, you will find the
truth of the law: necessity is the mother of invention.
Mother means producer. "Mother," the word, may be
applied to all generative power, for through birth all
things become usable in the outer for man.
There is the birth of children, to replenish the
earth, and carry on the work of past incarnations.
There is also the birth of ideas, so that the work may
be carried on in a bigger way. A spirit of desire is
necessary, just as in human birth, before the birth of
21
RICHES MANIFEST
* *
any idea can take place. Mothering an idea gives it
power. This is true of either a good or a bad idea. For
instance, the man who dwells on revenge, does not at
first think of killing, but by his continual dwelling
on, or "mothering" the idea, the picture of revenge
touches the visioning faculty, and this becomes pro
ductive to help him attain his desire; the means to an
end. Man always gets what he wants deep in his heart,
even if he cannot see it manifest as he has pictured.
Within the wrappings is the original seed, and he nur
tures it by his thought.
There was once a woman who hated home and
housekeeping. She got what she wanted, release from
both, but not as she imagined she would. She was forced
to work for her living, and to live in one room, because
she had pushed from her by her constant affirming of
hatred her home and her husband.
Spite also works that way. Undertaking anything
for spite will make you do the thing of necessity before
you are through with it. All the five, or seven, physical
senses are keenly awaiting a chance to become active,
and it is up to the Indwelling Mind to make of them a
working force for Good. Thus, when necessity arises,
the need will be met by a force working in perfect har
mony and order, because it is in training, and therefore
open to receive the word of God for the new, neces
sary idea.
Alertness is a God Power: the power to see behind
and around a situation by putting every faculty to
work. Never get panicky when things are happening.
22
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i i
God does not work in a panic. Peace, poise will show
you the way out.
Remember the great Iroquois fire. One person saved
many thousand lives by alertness and poise. Be alert;
be poised. Practice these. Then you will be ready for
necessity when it comes, and necessity will be to you
what God meant it to be:
A great producer in all walks of life.
23
Opportunity
V*_>J od Himself is your Source of Supply.
Does God give occasionally? Or is His gift always
there for you to call upon? This is the question you
yourself must now decide in your own mind. Upon
your decision rests the entire fabric of your life, and
your output in this life.
All is Substance, you have been taught. All is One
with You. You make it in the different parts and
moulds that you want, by your thinking and accept
ing. If you want air, you open windows. If you are
wise, you open the windows before you feel the real
need of the air.
In the same way, if you are wise, you will start in
moulding your substance before the dire need and the
pinch of the so-called poverty hits you. Get ready for
what you want, not for what you will have to work to
get rid of.
If you let other outside interests interfere with the
Oneness of yourself and your desire, you must not ex
pect to receive as rapidly and as perfectly as if you
were looking and planning for the One and Only.
Don't try to cultivate two or three things at once.
Don't try to have the other fellow do your culti
vating or your garnering. You will find that you al
ways open the channel for the other fellow, and that
you yourself are left, as it were, in the discard.
I have seen more wonderful demonstrations go
wrong in the outer by one student sending another for
24
PROSPERITY LESSONS
> i
the bucket of water, than by any other mistake. Go
yourself! Ask yourself for what you want! You can
get it as well as the next one. What difference does it
make whether there is a personal friendship or not to
reckon with, or a so-called string on the gift?
Don't change your mind about a thing you are
working on, as this changes your vibration and your
consciousness with regard to it.
Remember: you have never failed. You have gone as
far as you really want to! Whenever you want to pick
up your idea, you will do so ; you will go forward and car
ry it on. You have not failed; you have only suspended
your production faculty by "laying down on the job."
Your mind is the use you make of the Mind of God.
Imelda Shanklin tells us, and you know God cannot
fail. So you use the Mind of God, and the fullest con
cept you can have of your own ability is just your God
Power speaking to you.
Opportunity knocks at every door, so we have
been told.
I will tell you more than that. Opportunity is an
electric switch, always waiting to be turned on. By you
only for yourself. Don't try to get the other fellow's
switch to work for you: it will only use your channel,
and flow out to the other fellow!
Look yourself in the face during the following days,
and see what you can do with opportunity when it
comes to you, and what you are naming this opportu
nity. How many of you can recognize the instant an
opportunity is yours? Are you only seeing through one
window, or are you looking in all directions?
25
RICHES MANIFEST
> *
Your brain is the register of your opportunity. You
were born with it. It was born with you. No one else
can use it for you. It is like the man using his hands to
work with, while, you stand in front of him. He'll
surely get stuck sometime.
Think, and then think some more! Don't be so sat
isfied with yourself that you feel you have all the
knowledge available on the particular idea you want to
develop. The opportunity is present for you to learn
more of every subject, no matter what, than you al
ready know. That is why you are here.
Stop wailing and whining what a poor success you
are, or what has jumped away from you! It was be
cause you never learned the rules governing the grasp
ing of opportunity. You took too much for granted.
Look you well to the details. Therein lies success!
The issue at stake can be met by anyone. The right-
thinking student will follow up the issue with the idea
of learning how to capture it and tie it up for himself.
Don't be loose in your understanding! Get ac
quainted with your own Soul, your Sub-conscious
Mind; that wonderful part of you that never becomes
poorer, but richer in substance as you use and draw
upon it.
Prosperity is a state of consciousness. Consciousness
is an acceptance of all things as opportunities for
greater prosperity, no matter through what channel or
in what way it may express. You must see the thing,
as you want the opportunity to produce it.
Cultivate all possible confidence in yourself! This
gives opportunity a chance to work. Confidence begets
26
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* *
opportunity; and opportunity begets confidence. Be
willing to try. Put forth the very best you are capable
of. That brain of yours will start into new activity,
and in this way you will have a wider vision of new
Opportunities, as well as more richly varied means to
acquire knowledge and power of all kinds.
27
^Visualisation
TT7
V VHERE there is no vision, the people perish."
These words are written in our Bible. Back of the
written words is more than we can conceive at first
sight, for without this Vision we have no power to
produce.
First the seed, then the bloom; but remember, the
seed carries the bloom within
it,
for within the seed
is
the power that brings forth the bloom.
Vision
is
always backed by the little seed of Faith,
which grows with use. So the vision grows with our
claiming and acknowledging its power.
If
I
want to produce,
I
know instantly that God
wants me to produce, and the two become one in vision.
The different stages of visualizing are imaging,
visioning, and visualization. Visualization
is
the idea
made concrete. Vision
is
the Universal idea. Imaging
is
the seed, or the man-made plan. Your imaginative
faculty
is
capable of producing greater or lesser things,
for
it
is
in the control of Mind that
it
rests. It
is
a
part
of God, indivisible, yet, reckoned through the material
man-made law,
it
can be limited in output by ourselves.
What are Dreams? All dreams are ideals of the
Great Universal Mind, and productive of race service.
Consider Columbus. His ideal was first visioned; then
it
was idealized into concrete form by his visualization.
His consciousness carried such
a
perfect, complete
visualization of this land beyond the horizon, that the
uncharted seas had no terrors for him. Wonders un
28
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i {
thought of follow the first visioning into fuller visual
ization. This is the way God manifests or expresses
through all.
The one that has brought forth has then greater
faith in his own powers, which are really God Powers,
whether he is conscious of this or not. The perfect
Visualization sees and senses the goal in every vision
and image, and allows no man-made law to say "Nay!"
or "Yea!"
You must never be afraid to speak forth into the
outer the picture you have visualized by daily applica
tion of the principle; nor should you seek to know the
outcome except so far as you have visioned it for your
working plan. Not even to this day is the finish of the
visioning and the visualization of Columbus. Yet he did
only what he conceived in his first mind -plan; others
following him are still carrying on in our Country.
Every successful bringing forth through this visu
alization is the Birth of a Child of God.
Mary visualized the Christ Child in her pure praise
and love of God Good. Man's visualization is the
"bringing forth" method of the Universal Plan for man
as God Manifest, whether in business, or the patenting
of an invention, or the moulding of a perfect work of
art, or as the Birth of God's Highest Ideal Man.
"And she brought forth a man child."
In preparation for this Birth, whatever form it
may take, hourly inner perfection is attained by devel
oping our vision inwardly, concentrating on idea, and
closing out all other ideas.
29
RICHES MANIFEST
i i
Realize that you are dealing with a powerful en
ergy that as yet has no form. Now, let your mind
dwell on the mental picture of that which you want,
thereby centralizing the creative action or force on
one center spiritually, and in the Spirit Substance
making your mental picture a definite mold that is
pushed out (by the creative energy that began the
action) into the outer.
Visualization is easy in vibration, and contains no
strenuous effort to defeat its purpose. Know that
there is no negative side to anything! This knowl
edge lets the perfect harmony flow in and through
every potent part of your picture.
Easy, instant, perfect! Keep your picture with
you intact through joy and happiness. A happy state
of mind unencumbered by any adverse thought is
necessary at all times. Know what you want to pro
duce, by all means, at all times. Visualize what you
want, and not how you want. Never make your
channel of visualization the only channel. Your busi
ness is to hold your picture; Nature and God Mind
will take care of the rest!
Be consciously one with the Universal Whole, and
this will prevent a half-way success.
The thought you dwell upon becomes the thing
you will possess. Thought is Creative Action. Take
this thought to dwell upon:
Everything I want, wants me.
It cannot be one with me unless I rest in and on
that vision of what I want.
30
^Acceleration Its Working
I
in the Universe
T has been proven by scientists that anything called
for by the right name will answer the call. This proves
the use to be made of the Spoken Word, and the vibra
tion that can be set in motion by this law. It coin
cides with the Word: "Ask," or call, "and it shall be
given you."
Acceleration: This mighty word has very little
use in this day and age; yet within it lies the outcome
of your Spoken Word. Speeding up thought, speed
ing up the vibration, speeding up the vision. Being so
enwrapped in it that the Law of Jhvh, which is in
stant power to bring forth your answer, becomes the
center of the thought, and all radiations come from
this central pivot, and as such must come forth in
dynamic force.
Power power power I What is Power? Jhvh
God. . How much of this power are you using to
accelerate your thought and action? Mayhap you
have never thought of this? When you begin to con
centrate on the idea, and reach into the hidden depths
of your Christ Mind, do you do this in a half-minded
or half -interested way? Or do you put forth all the
power you possibly can, and start an acceleration
through mind and body that reacts into the Universe,
and begins its working there?
Accelerate your speed; bring more force to bear
on your thinking mind. This is what is meant by
31
RICHES MANIFEST
* «
"keen, vital, alert!" Alertness means acceleration,
pushing on the motor. This is what makes the high-
powered salesman, but the average high-powered sales
man becomes a menace to himself and every one else,
because he steps on the accelerator in a material sense,
and rides over the rights and judgments of the buyer.
Power misused becomes a vicious thing. Have you
ever seen an engine running away, without a guiding
hand on the brakes or levers? In the same way, an
idea of God's let loose without guidance, and permitted
to run wild, accelerated as it were, seems to realize with
an uncanny knowledge that there is no hand at the
helm.
If guided rightly, this acceleration of speed will
become a dynamo that nothing on earth will be able
to stop, hinder or destroy. The thought currents with
which you surround yourself are attracting from the
Invisible Universe a like set of currents, which are
strengthened and accelerated by your intensity of
thought and vision.
As you vision the idea you are seeking to bring
forth, you set in motion in the ethers the picture of it;
and every like vibration or picture is taken into this
molding process and brought forth.
There is never separation in thought. It does not
divide. It is the seed; and no seed is divided before it
has produced and brought forth the perfect product
as was originally planned. There is no deviation from
this Law of God. We may cut or change by material
means; but it becomes like the pants of the boy that
so many had a hand in trying to rebuild.
32
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* -f
The brain is a receiving station. Thought is not
generated there; it is only received. Scientists will tell
you this, and all metaphysical books bear witness to
this truth. It stands to reason that if some of these
cells in the brain are "laying down on the job," your
receiving set is not perfect, and you do not get the full
return of that which you have tuned in for. The
transmutor, or thought, must be in perfect tune to be
able to send the message across. The most perfect state
of consciousness, and the most perfect vitality and en
ergy must have their place in this sending, or you will
be working, or as we call
it,
running on one cylinder.
Where can you get on one cylinder?
The generator and the receiver must be in perfect
harmony to get through
a
message on this line. Then
you need not bother about how many messages, or de
sires, are being broadcast! That would have no effect
on you. You would then be working in
a
perfect
Christ-Radio, and everything in
a
like vibration would
be attracted to you.
The short wave of perfect sending
is
wonderful as
a
starter. Continue to increase your wave length;
then you are increasing your vibration, and drawing
from greater distances in the Universal ether. As you
do this, you must accelerate the inner motion, or vis-
ioning, and also the outer.
Have you ever taken
a
bucket of water and swung
it
very fast? Nothing
is
spilled from it; but all things
are dashed from its path as
it
swings around in
a
circle.
The very momentum keeps the contents from scat
tering.
33
RICHES MANIFEST
* *
Acceleration intensifies and protects; carries all
before it. The moment you begin to let the energy
die down, just that moment you lose the attracting
power that is carrying you out of the ordinary mani
festations and demonstrations. You go back to the
"Also-rans!" Don't! You can stop it. It means
turning on the steam a little earlier in the day, and
sensing the need and the way to meet it a little more
vitally. Believe me, it is well worth the price.
The joy one gets from the perfect realization of
God as a working power in him, more than repays him
for the energy expended in stretching forth for the
thing. It is far more than the thing he attains.
So when you feel like "laying down," or letting go,
remember, that is the very time to put the new battery
in. Get busy; don't wait; for sooner or later the demand
will be made on you for speed, and then you will have
no reserve force to draw from, if you have not used
that which you had the opportunity to use.
In this every-day life, // is the fellow who works the
accelerator that gets past you! However, you must use
it right, not getting the idea that you are the only one
who has a right to a thing. Use it in the God conscious
ness of perfect thinking and perfect visioning; of doing
as you want to be done by.
Concentrate your efforts on your God-given power
to succeed. Accelerate every God-given idea that comes
to you, and there can be nothing for you but Success.
Everything in the Universe will be working for you,
and with you, and through you. Amen.
34
_ l\(on -l^estst
anctj
JLhe Law of non-resistance is the law operative for
the bringing forth of the perfect product. This law is
unalterable, and, like all of God's laws, never fails.
As one noted teacher asked: "What is there to
resist?"
This is the answer. Nothing apart from God really
has existence. Consequently you are wasting God's time
in resisting a circumstance that has no reality. Why not
get busy and see what is creating this condition? Why
not remove the cause instead of resisting the effect?
The people who marched round the walls of Jericho
were making nothing of the obstruction, ignoring the
wall, by praising the law of God as the only working
Power, and lo! the walls were down! This is seeing the
Perfect back of the outer condition or manifestation of
Imperfect. Any time you ignore a person or a situation
it loses its power against you. Any time you meet a cir
cumstance with an acknowledgment of a power apart
from that which you wish to have manifested, you are
welcoming an imperfect condition. Thus again, you
prove out the law of attraction by thinking.
The one who is able to look into the future, and
know God's Law is operative, is the one who will always
find the Divine Law working for him, whether he is
able to see it or not. It works continually, because we
are working with
it,
and making
it
possible and abso
lute by seeing nothing but the one outcome. See it?
See it.
35
RICHES MANIFEST
> <
The only Law that will operate is the Law of Ex
pectancy; expecting that which you ask for and noth
ing else. Don't accept "Just as good" articles; they will
not fill the need. They may be "Just as good," but not
for you.
When we believe we are able to do a certain thing,
we set in vibration a law to bring forth this thing.
Don't get busy and make a law as to time. Time is of
Man and not of God. God can so speed up the dynamos
that are working in you, if you concentrate and keep a
clear mind, that the Invisible Activity will make a new
record for you, and will produce, in its own time, that
which would have taken much longer through the
Man Mind.
Never set your time limit as a thing unalterable, for
God knows no limit in the process of production. When
you mentally conceive a thing, it is born already in the
Unseen; and the strength to bring it forth into the
tangible world depends on how much faith you have in
your own power, your own Word, not the power of
the other fellow, whoever or whatever you may think
you have to resist.
You hinder your demonstrations by needless resist
ance to some outer condition, or by holding in mind the
idea that you have to work hard to gain your object.
The biggest demonstrations are brought forth by hold
ing the perfect picture and releasing everything out
side of it.
Nothing but what I want can come to me. This is
an affirmation that tears down all resistance. Don't
peddle your work. Don't vision hurdles. Don't jump
36
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i. 4
at conclusions. Remember, it is concentrated thinking
that brings forth ; but not for a few moments at all
times; never allowing another contrary thought to
enter your consciousness. Hold the perfect thought in
regard to all things, at all times.
I have seen the way so dark that there was no light
anywhere. Then, in less than no time, I have known the
light to show forth from all angles at once, and when
it once starts pouring, it does not stop the perfect
thought going on working and creating.
Man, God's Divine Idea in its highest conception,
becomes creative as we see God creative, and in no other
way. Of all the manifestations that have been created
through the power of the Spoken Word, Man is the
only one that shows resistance to the law of Divine Per
fection. Man-made beliefs and intellectual ideas have
caused this separation. The seed is planted on the left
side of the house; it cannot refuse to grow because it is
not on the right side of the house! It grows because it is
the law for it to grow when planted; and through this
law of unfoldment, environment has no power to stop
the growth. It gives forth all it has to give where it
is,
and
is
perfect in that manifestation.
The tree cannot say
it
will not grow:
it
has no
choice. This passive subjection to the life-principle
within
is
the reason why, when all things earthly fail,
so many seeming "miracles" are performed. God
is
all
power, when you let Him be so. But not until you let
go! When earthly limitations are lifted through fail
ure or breakdown, then, and not until then, the Law of
God steps in!
37
RICHES MANIFEST
i 4
To further the Law of God means to hold oneself in
a non-resistant vibration, affirming: "None of these
things move me: I am centered in Christ." This will
clear everything of a resistant nature from you and
bring you into the vibration of production in a har
monious way.
As you come more and more under this law, you
will see the result of ignoring the opposite appearance,
and making the Law of God your own law.
Affirmations:
I am poised and centered in Christ.
I have no vision except for the seeing of God's per
fect plan, no matter what shows forth in the outer at
the time.
I know, and know that I know, easily, instantly,
perfectly, and in a sustained manner that no outer con
dition can change or affect.
38
Tositiveness The Sub-Qonscious
*Mind TroductiotL,
JLhe Sub -conscious Mind has been called the Soul
Mind. It is the "Mind that was in Christ Jesus." Sub
consciously, Jesus was tuned in with this mind at all
times, and the hours which He constantly used for
meditation were for the charging of this sub-conscious
mind, to take in only the things of God for unfoldment
and release.
What is positive thinking? One metaphysical teacher
has defined the difference between positive and nega
tive states of consciousness as the difference between
backward and forward movement, between action up
and down the line, between success and failure. I think
this is a wonderful conception of the conditions we
bring to ourselves by right or wrong thinking.
Fear attracts like to itself, the same as Faith, but it
attracts the thing you fear. Just as in the case of the
rich boy who had so many anxious thoughts turned on
him, to insure his safety and ward off disaster, he inevit
ably attracted an accident. The fear for his safety that
was set in vibration materialized into a thing of like
kind! Fear thoughts are great materializers.
Have you ever noticed the atmosphere of repulsion
around a fear person, and the attractive quality that
surrounds a positive or faith person? Instant registra
tion is made in the mentality. If you couple the idea of
the Lesson on Acceleration with the new thought you
are taking, that of Positiveness, you make a mighty
i9
RICHES MANIFEST
> *
team of workers for your production. This, if directed
by the Sub-conscious Mind in a creative manner,
will bring forth a perfect manifestation, charged or
accelerated as it
is,
and handled with
a
positive thought
of what
is
wanted, and why. A clear-cut picture
is
needed, for you limit yourself many times by letting
down before the picture has made
a
clear imprint on
the subconsciousness.
You see, then, that the accumulating forces of all
that
is
set in vibration by our thinking, makes
a
mighty
instrument, or set of instruments with which to work.
You use these forces in directing toward you the return
of the idea you sent forth. For instance, the person who
continually dwells on the thought of suicide will be
able to think of more ways in which to do the deed, and
more opportunities will unfold for him to do
it,
as he
broods and concentrates on this desire.
The best way to stop
a
person from continuing in
this vibration
is
to help him get what he wants, so to
speak. Hit him quickly by telling him you think
it
would be
a
good idea for him to do
it,
as long as he in
sists, then get busy making the way for him easy and
instant. As soon as he begins to realize that there
is
no
sympathy in store for him, but
a
desire to be rid of him,
he will reverse the thought, and desire to live. Remem
ber the story of the Mouse.
Negative people are always talking about what they
cannot do, and how unlucky they are. Let them stop
and think for once how unlucky other people are in
having to deal with them, and listen to them. Let them
begin to help themselves by their own right thinking.
40
PROSPERITY LESSONS
y i
Don't ever think you will get anywhere by claim
ing that someone else put you where you are. You your
self are alone responsible for what you are and where
you are, and no one else. And no one else can take you
out of there until you realize that it all lies in yourself,
and get busy]
The idea that anything is "too good to be true,"
builds a stone wall around or in front of anything you
want. Nothing is too good to be true. It is too good
NOT to be true! This saying will open every door to
you, and give you the good, true, perfect thing that
belongs to you, and comes forth at your call.
Words are a veritable dynamo for you, you, to
work with. Work, then, realizing the Law back of
them. Work accordingly, letting go of every thought
but the one of success. A successful man never uses
"buts," "ifs," "maybe" or "I wonder." He knows
"it is!"
How did that man we all know about find the Pot
of Gold? By burying the horse that cultivated the bit
of land where he made his meager living, he found the
gold; always there, never unearthed until he dug for
it ! So it is in Life. There are no chance accidents, but
many times there must be a taking away, as in the case
of the horse, before we can look beneath the surface.
Be mighty careful about generating poisons by
wrong thinking when you are in a positive state of
mind. Enough poison can be sent forth by positive
affirmations of wrong thoughts to poison many nega
tive souls who lack resistance. Remember how often
you have said or heard: "I felt fine until he or she said
41
RICHES MANIFEST
i 1
this or that!" or, "I was wonderful until I got that let
ter!" Nothing real has changed, only the mortal mind
has begun to register on the subconscious mind, and it
is busy drawing like to it. Now is the very time to hold
steadfast, putting in more and more of this acceleration
of speed and power, this positiveness that makes for
production.
God
is,
and
if
He
is,
He is; and that's all there is!
There just isn't any more to it!
Be positive of good. Hold the thought that only
good is. Put your power behind the thought, and see
it
come forth in
a
big, beautiful manner. Get the soul of
this big, positive idea you are working on. Make
a
clear
picture, and don't bother about what the other fellow
is
doing or thinking. You can't ride a
bicycle or
a
buck
ing horse and at the same time watch the other fellow
ride! You will find yourself down in the dirt, or up
against the lamp-post.
One thing at
a
time, and all the punch possible,
back
of
the thought, will bring
it
out. Keep accelerat
ing and pouring in positiveness until
it
moves. It will
move. It just has to!
Sooner will the Heavens fall than that My word
shall pass away. Think of the power back of that idea!
Wonders will never cease for you,
if
you work, in
this attitude.
Try it; get into
it
deeper and deeper, and see the
richness of the output. Amen.
42
The Habit ofShifting Ulame
.
T How It Operates
V Ve have been taught the Law of God in operation
through vision and affirmation. Now, let us see wherein
we sometimes let down on this God power.
How many of us are in the habit of blaming some
one else for our disappointments and failures! Be true
to yourself, and admit the weakness that has never been
absent from your own mind. God cannot be fooled.
The Bible tells us: "God is not mocked."
So many people want others to make up their minds
for them, and then, when things go wrong, they blame
the other one. Do you not know that if you had used
the Law rightly, you would have been making your
own decision, and you would have had no one to blame?
And the chances are, you would have been very suc
cessful.
It is a true expression, that though we are all one,
yet each is separate and apart. This is what makes the
perfect adjustment and the continual pushing forth of
all God's ideas. Don't be afraid to push forward into
your right place by using your own ability, your own
power of choice. So often I have to remind you that
you are sufficient unto yourself. God working in and
through the Christ Mind was always sufficient unto
Himself.
Remember the story of the disciple whom Jesus
asked: "Who do men say that I am?" He did not ac
cept the quoted opinion of anyone. He wanted this
43
RICHES MANIFEST
> i
certain disciple's opinion, and none other. And when
this disciple gave his reply, letting go of all other
people's ideas, Jesus glorified and blessed him.
This is what happens when you go forth certain of
yourself. Whenever you look to the law of appraise
ment from outside, you are wavering and uncertain.
Uncertain vibration will accomplish nothing!
"He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea,
driven with the wind, and tossed."
Have you ever noticed the man who is running
away from something that might injure him? He
never runs straight; he always zig-zags! This is so that
he may not make himself a target for the bullet. And
this is what you do, when you waver. Mentally, you
zig-zag. A person who drinks, or uses any pleasure to
excess, is a Zig-zag person. No stability is possible for
him until this is overcome.
When you once realize the Power within yourselves
you will become ashamed to admit that any one could
influence you. Learning to stand on your own feet
mentally, is the same as learning to stand on your feet
when you first begin to walk. As long as you are car
ried, you never learn. As long as somone makes up
your mind for you, you will never grow!
This is the reason we use the affirmation: "Make
me know, and know that I know." Can you imagine
anyone trying to influence you, or make your decision
for you, if this truth was ingrained in your mind?
Never reprove the other fellow who advised you;
or the outer condition that decided you. You only are
the one that is interested, and consequently you are
44
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* »
answerable for the outcome. Jesus blamed no man for
anything. He spoke His Word, and stood upon His
understanding that this was sufficient.
If you want success, and happiness, and love, and
all the gifts of God, stop reading the news of disaster,
murder, failure, disease, dishonesty. If fewer people
read these things, there would be more wonderful
demonstrations brought forth. If we are made from
the plastic ether, and take on conditions according
to the vibration of our thinking, just picture what a
sewer your mind can become by filling it with these
items, records of imperfection! Watch the faces of the
people who read these things. Your story is there; what
can you expect?
You blame someone else for your failure, when it
was because you did not do your work of preparation.
Jesus was always prepared, for He continually held to
the Ideal: "7 and My Father are one, and all that He
hath is Mine" This does not apply to money or mate
rial demonstration alone, but also to the right thinking
and the right visioning. It made Him always sending
forth in vibration the same law of power within Him
self from the Head Source, Divine Mind.
Don't blame the other fellow that you made a poor
investment, because you really were talked into it. You
must have thought you would get something big by
going ahead; and when things turned out unfavorably
you felt injured. Your thought was not honest to begin
with. You have used the outer material law of "what
can I get out of it," not the Christ law: "what good can
I do with this proposition?"
45
RICHES MANIFEST
t 1
Any time you look at the outer for the picturing of
the God Idea, you are liable to be bitterly disappointed
in a material way; but when you look at the perfect
idea from God's hand, you will find a more perfect
production than you could conceive of.
Learn to know yourself, and learn to stand on your
own understanding. I have seen more failures than you
can count, by lack of faith in oneself, and listening to
the other man.
Do not give way to the feeling that anyone owes
you anything. If you helped them, you did it because
you wanted to. Don't be like the men whom Jesus
speaks of as praying aloud with many words. Back
of your doing this, was the pleasure you wanted.
Don't expect people to help you, when you not
only refuse to accept what comes, but also will not help
yourself. No one can push on you mentally, unless you
let them. Keep constantly in mind the thought:
J am a law unto myself, and I blame no one, and let
no one blame me.
I stand pat on God's law: my own comes to we
when I use the right effort.
Use it: use your own decision, your own effort, not
the other fellow's.
44
H,
'Love Is the Fulfilling of the Law"
4
.aving the will faculty placed in your conscious
ness, you now want to know under what power it
works best and in the most perfect way. This is the rea
son why I have made so forceful the idea of knowing
what you want, and why you want it, and that you do
want it more than anything else.
The greatest moving power in the world is Love.
It is a vibrant thought, and once put into circulation
never dies even in the material way.
There was never a condition so bad that Love could
not change
it,
if
we worked long enough and hard
enough on it. The definition
of
Love carries more
constructive words than any other word in the diction
ary. Love, real Love,
is
never destructive. It
is
the
misuse of the word, or of its application, that makes
for destruction.
Prosperity
is
God's Love for you. It
is
always there,
whether you receive
it
or not, but its development de
pends on you yourself, and none other.
The word Love in its working embraces
a
key to
every situation you may enter into.
I
want you each
and every one to concentrate on the different mental
pictures you receive when Love
is
spoken of. This will
give you the just and firmly-balanced thought to begin
your work on.
If the Love that vibrates through you by your
thought
is
a
selfish one, or one that will carry no lasting
47
RICHES MANIFEST
» 1
effect, you will need to go to work and clear out of your
mind all this, and replace it with such Love as Jesus had.
This means getting down to the real perfect incentive
of your desire.
Love opens the door of your mind, and gives you a
vision of the beauty of the finished building, when you
see with the eyes of God, or Love. God is Power, but
that Power is Love, not hatred or envy or malice, Love!
God is good, and Love is Good (God) . Do you see how
you turn back each time to God for the estimate or
measurement? This is not the man-made measurement;
it is the God-measurement. The Will of God being the
Will for Good, is naturally the Will of Love and Loving.
Now, begin to use this God Love in this way:
Make yourself subject to Love vibrations only.
Turn on these vibrations as you turn on a current of
air. Get where you can feel the current; that
is,
away
from thoughts or ideas that prevent the current from
circulating freely.
As what you recognize comes forth, Emma Curtis
Hopkins writes, so
if
you let Love vision your project
for you, you get the vision of God in it, and this be
comes your picture brought into manifestation. This
perfect manifestation can only come through Love.
Many writers have called Love "God Power." It is.
Through Love you get the vision perfectly of what you
want. For you will not love an object that
is
not per
fect, nor will you be satisfied with it. This dissatisfac
tion with imperfection
is
your salvation.
It
is
a
true
sign of advancement. God will not help the man who
is
satisfied.
41
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i i
It was Love that created the Son of God. It was
Love that made Him open the door for you by His life.
It is Love that makes you open the door for others by
proving His Word in your demonstrations.
The first essential is to love what you are doing. If
you can't love it, let go quickly. You'll never make the
grade.
Begin to radiate Love, broadcast it. Eat it; sleep it;
be it! Get the name of Love written in your mind as
the one weapon you will use to give more power and
push to what you are doing. Love it till it hurts! And
then love it some more! I have myself loved a demon
stration that came forth, so much that to material
sense my heart ached; but it was a joy ache!
This urge of Love will push you over the top in
your work. For prosperity, learn to love money. Get
rid of false pride and deceit about your feeling for
money. Many people say they do not love it. You
might just as well say you do not love God. Love it;
and love it some more! Money is God in manifestation,
just as much so as the Sun and the Moon and every
other manifestation of Nature.
You love God. You love food. You love that which
symbolizes the product, food. Money is the idea of God
that gives you the food; an article of exchange. Love
it.
As you love money with
a
just appreciation of its
source,
it
comes to you naturally, and with
it
you do
our work of further production. You cannot mix the
material for your house
if
you have not all the ingredi
ents, and you need money to procure the ingredients.
Why separate God in any way from your building?
49
RICHES MANIFEST
> i
Now, take your desire. How much will you love it
when it comes forth? Will you feel as happy as you
do in anticipation? Yes. Then you are loving it to its
fulfillment. Any time you begin to get discouraged,
you are letting down on the Love Power. Stoke up!
Find some new, vital point that you have not been lov
ing. This puts a new vibration, a new battery in at
once. See yourself as your highest vision glimpses you
in this manifestation, and know that God Love is work
ing through you to place you there.
Affirmations:
I have no fear of using Love in too big a way.
Love is inexhaustible because it is God in me.
As my capacity to use Love increases, I see more
places for its use. I recognize constantly Love as God
in me; and I know it will prove God in manifestation
as my desire shows forth.
I baptize myself daily in Love by using the words
Love, Love, Love, Love, Love, Love, Love.
Love !
Love Love Love Love Love
Love Love Love Love.
"God Is Love"
God Is Law.
And therefore Love is the Fulfilling of the
Law.
SO
tithing far Trosperity
_ and Unfoldment
JLhe first thing in coming into the real truth is a clear,
open mind, and a letting go of all but the thing desired.
The first thing to do in tithing is to let go of your
tithe when you give it. Let go completely. Don't be
gin to think what a great thing you are doing, or have
done, or how much you are helping some one, or some
order, and what it is going to give you in return. This
is bargaining with God, which is altogether different
from giving. Each has its place in the student's mind.
The bargain-making is all right if you live up to
it,
and know that back of the bargain
is
the thought that
you are using the God law in
a
God way, and making
God
a
co-worker with you.
Tithing
is
rendering unto God that which
is
God's,
and giving
it
back to the Kingdom of God by letting
go of what
is
not rightfully yours.
The Mosaic Law required
a
tenth as the Lord's por
tion, and with many students this still holds. Never
tithe for the sake of receiving back something, or for
the sake of reward. You will find quotations all
through the Bible about this law of giving and re
ceiving.
Many people want to give to God's work, and do
not know how to go about it. This
is
where the law of
tithing helps one. A tithe
is
a
tenth of all supply,
whether from farm produce, gifts or wages for serv
ice.
It
should be the first to be sent forth in the service
Jl
RICHES MANIFEST *
of the One who gave all to you in the first place. It is
merely the recognition that you receive from Him,
and in receiving are able to realize the law enough to
let go of the amount freely, in order that it may do its
work without thought of return. This would limit
God in His giving to you.
If you have money in your pocket-book, and you
let some out, then you have space for more. The vibra
tion and the freedom with which you make the place
vacant for more, attracts more and more. This is so,
because the right relation of things to one another is:
God first!
Tithing is putting God first in finances, and is
one of the practical ways of seeking the Kingdom of
Heaven first.
Tithing produces system, which is Divine Order,
providing you do not stop tithing when you happen to
want something else.
Continual systematic tithing is more valuable to
the student than a large gift now and then, although
the large gift may amount to more in money and outer
manifestation. It is the Divine Order you establish in
your affairs when you let go of a part of your income
to God, each and every time the income flows in, that
really counts. Thus you are always tuning in with
God, Divine Supply, and releasing instead of clog
ging the mind. By the exercise of the orderliness of
giving instead of continual receiving, you keep the
mind open.
The whole process is like that of the rain falling
on the earth. The rain must fall gently and regularly,
n
PROSPERITY LESSONS
* i
at the right times. If it falls all at once after a period
of withholding, the earth has become dry and does not
produce-
By tithing you are helping to establish the King
dom of God on earth, and you become a part of that
kingdom.
Tithing gives you a faith in God to supply
your needs, and God abides in you according to
your faith.
If you say you are a Child of the King, and believe
what you say, there is no reason to be fearful of let
ting go. The swimmer does not hold onto the material
life-line. He knows and goes forth to breast the waves,
knowing his security. This, too, is what the tither does.
By letting go of Fear, he goes forth into the Kingdom
of God.
You must not expect God to fulfil the law for you,
if you do not fulfil the law for God. By putting God
first in all things, thought and finances, your faith
is being shown in the outer. Promises do not show
this faith.
A real loving tithe of one penny as the tenth of one
dime is greater than a gift of an unlimited amount that
you are just giving because you may receive something
through
it,
or because you think you ought to.
Don't do
it
until you see the Christ behind the Idea.
When man begins to give his one-tenth to God first,
before anything else, begins to love his neighbor as him
self, and to do to others as he would have them do to
him, then the end of his troubles will be here. He will
become healthy, wealthy and wise, in Prosperity.
53
RICHES MANIFEST
* i
Think of your tithe as the farmer planting his seed.
The farmer selects the best seed; he is thankful to have
it good. We should bless and give praise that we can
acknowledge God in this way, and this makes the seed
doubly precious in vibration and substance. In this way
it releases into the atmospheric ether the vibration
which returns to the giver.
Never give unless you are able to bless and let go,
either your service or your money. The increase lies in
the thought that goes with
it,
that
it
is
God's own.
Therefore
it
is
your joyous privilege to be one with
God, as He
is
with us, present in all we have."
The words of Truth remove every limitation man's
thought may have placed upon it or upon you, when
you utter them with the full power of attraction and
joy. The smaller the income, the more necessary to tithe
in order to prove the law of letting go of the outer.
Never feel that you have to wait until you have made
more, or until your demonstration has come through.
Learn the lesson of the "Widow's Mite," and remember
that "the least among you shall be the greatest."
Let me repeat again:
it
is
Divine Order in all things
that brings success; not the uncertain using of the law
at irregular times. The singer, for instance, who prac
tices all day long for one day, and then not again for
a
week, gets nowhere, but the one who devotes his mind
to
it
for five minutes every day
is
the one who will
win out.
Again
it
isn't the amount you give;
it
is
the letting
go of that which
is
yours in the outer, to prove the law
of refilling the vessel. The bigger the idea behind the
$4
PROSPERITY LESSONS
» *
gift, the bigger the increase. Never apologize for the
amount of a tithe, or of a love gift. See it as you want
to give, and watch it come up to that amount!
An accurate account should be kept with God, as
in all other business transactions. The money must be
put into circulation at once, as holding on until it in
creases causes a decreased inflow.
This applies to all other tithes as well as to actual
money. If you feel you are not receiving enough Love,
get busy and tithe more Love out to all those whom you
can remember.
If you are not receiving service, begin and tithe
service to God's ideas. Do it freely, not for what you
will get in return. Ifyou are not getting enough joy out
of life, begin and give your tithe of joy by being happy
and making it known, and watch the joy increase
for you!
In conclusion, tithe the whole way through, not
only in the tenth, but in the Spirit of God; the spirit
of Christ who said: "All that the Father hath is mine."
I give back that I may realize my Oneness with Him in
all ways, and that He may give the increase, that I may
be more to Him as the never-failing prover of His
Divine Law. Tithing is not giving a love gift. These
are given for your own pleasure, or for the help re
ceived, or for the joy of adding to another's store.
Tithing is giving back to God and God's work the
part that belongs to Him, freely and fully, and for
the purpose of obeying in spirit and in all ways the
Law of God.
SS
RICHES MANIFEST
i *
J have faith in the Law of God, and in this faith I
give of what God has given me, joyously and freely.
"Bring ye one tenth into the storehouse of the Lord,
into the place of God's work, and see if I will not give
you measure overflowing, pressed down and running
over."
St
Judgment and Discrimination
"judgment is Mine, saith the Lord"
his quotation has a double value in that it gives
God all power, and by conforming to this rule we
afford an opening for God's judgment to show forth.
Why should not God give Judgment, when He
gives you all other things or is a part of all things you
partake of? As the owner, He has a perfect right to
judge and use this discrimination in judgment that can
be naught else but perfect. Many a time we are fearful
of making judgments of our own, but God's judgment
in us is perfect.
Justice is first cousin to judgment, for where God
is,
judgment
is
ruler, and justice
is
the outcome.
In your work for prosperity you will take the
thought of justice for prosperity in finances; Wealth,
Plenty, Riches being the names given to the different
forms of prosperity. The first idea that must be firmly
planted in the conscious mind
is
that you are only
accepting that which
is
yours. This gives you
a
more
perfect idea of abundance. Where God
is,
there
is
no
lack, consequently you must see more of God before
you are able to bring forth more of prosperity.
The Satan for man
is
not money, but greed for
money.
I
told you in the last lesson, "Love
is
the Ful
filling of the Law"; to love money as an article of God.
That which we love we treat kindly and in
a
loving
manner. Never be careless in throwing money around.
Don't toss money! If money could speak,
it
would
57
RICHES MANIFEST
toss itself back to you and refuse to give you that
which you were seeking to acquire through this money.
Fold it; bless it continually, wherever you are. Make
it look neat and inviting. Don't carry money that has
become soiled in a material sense. Get it exchanged at a
bank. The outer dirt will not really hurt you, but you
will miss a great deal of the joy in handling it. You like
clean clothes, don't you? So does God desire a clean -j
outer manifestation as He manifests to you in money. .t
These are little things, but they mean much. is
Learn how to fold money. Be a good displayer. Justice si
and discrimination in money matters will increase all aa
that you have, many times. Remember the man with k
the dime. it
Let go of money when you want anything in rea-
Jlf
son. Always remember that the money in your hand
H
is
for the present desire, and more will be brought
^
forth for the next desire as soon as you learn to let go.
^
Do not let the greed of money become
a
part of
you.
It
stops your growth. Even though you give
and give and give,
if
you still hold on with greed to
^
that which you have given out, this will stop the in-
^
crease. There
is
no increase where
a
personal law
is
^
working. God
is
impersonal. ,
One may have unlimited wealth and possessions,
^
and think so little of them because they are only
a
part
^
'
of his inheritance. This
is
being impersonal in his inher-
'
itance. If you find fault with having to spend or let go
*
of money, you will find there
is
a
separation from
1011
money for you, and in
a
way you have not expected.
^
H
58
PROSPERITY LESSONS
i i
You must be careful not to tempt the God within
yourself with wealth and money; not to try to fool
the Christ that you are doing this for some higher good.
There is one you can never fool God Divine mind.
The power to control wealth is only gained
through loving the one who has the wealth. This is
loving your neighbor as yourself. In other words, it
is loving another part of God-in-manifestation. God
is all, and you are all, inasmuch as we let God be all!
Discrimination is a mighty weapon, in that it helps
you to keep silence on the man-made subjects. One who
discriminates does not use useless words or discuss his
problem. Many wonderful demonstrations are killed at
the birth by the student talking of what he is doing, of
what he is going to do, of how and when and where he
is going to do it! If you know God's law, you do not
need to deal with How and When and Where.
You are the vehicle that God operates through,
and are only for that purpose. God is at the helm. It
is in His hand your demonstration lies, even if His
hand is your hand in the outer. You are the vase hold
ing the flowers.
"No man knoweth except the Father." This is
true. You are to do, and then stand still and receive
the fulfilled word, letting go of the to-morrows and
using to-day in its course toward your plan. You
know you will receive in the increase.
The increase does not depend on what you plant,
but on how you plant it. The penny will increase
faster than the dollar if planted in Love, for it opens
new channels that flow wherever Love is.
