{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__pelley___scourge_of_cords.pdf","mytitle":"Scourge Of Cords","mylang":"de"}
■
■
A Tocsin to the
Militant Christians
of America!
f ■
-
r
. ■_! ■
t ■
■ '
. 'i
Copyright, 1933
William Dudley Pelley
Asheville, N. C.
t'*r
■v... t . i >
a . ->• J . v. iJ
Private Manual, Number One
of
THE SILVER SHIRTS OF
AMERICA
T H E POSSESSION of this brochure is an expression
of the Supreme Cominander’s profound confidence in
the Christie integrity of;
This manual is for the discriminative frwate use of the
above party, and is to be returned if this person should
cease to remain identified with the movement.
<
WARNING!
f A G E N TS of Disruption- who now batten on
>"? m the public distress and debotichcry have specific
y we&fom for gelding effective attempts to mass
the Christian manhood and v'or/tanhood of America
against their pernicious activities.
The instant that a man or a tnovement promises to
grow to too great power against them, they immediately
maneuver to become influential members of it them­
selves, either by money gifts, fmanded embarrassments, or
tenders of practical assisting!, socially or politically, that
they may influence its policies.
I f these fail-, their next step is a subtle pressure of
duress, either by ugly blackmail or ambiguous cofteey-
unce o f death threats, usually advanced. without rest-.
nesses present in order to leas>e their innuendoes crim­
inally unprasectitsble.
I f these be disregarded, a campaign- of public slander
is begun: malevolent portraits or press stories are “as-
cidenisdlyfi •published in controlled newspapers and re­
sultant libel suits expensively protracted j or whisper­
ings are tatanicaltf promoted that the persons at the
head of such movements are in sex complications, be­
trayers of financial trusts, secretly on the payrolls of the
very interests they afeet to combat, or they are holding
out to receive fabulous sums for surrender of their roles
in the public esteem.
I f a real leader Contrive to survive such attacks,
lethal expedients are next in orders motor cars in which
they are being transported are forced at high speed off
the public highways, “accidental** gun-fights of gangs'
tors break out where they are exposed to the fusillade
of bullets, they arc invited to banquets where slow-
working poisons are introduced into their foods, or they
are “snatched*' by insolent extortionists and “taken for
a rideT
M en and women of Americaf Do not lend your­
selves to such d-iiiblcries. The instant they are evinced
in any form, leak for the Hidden Hand and Cloven
H oof of the public debauchees of Christian rectitude.
Protect your leaders of integrity by being wise in such
chicaneries. I f you will not, you ore doomed!
3
A CHALLENGE TO THIS CRISIS
TH E S IL V E R S H IR T S O F T H E U S E R A TO RS
are a groat Christian M ilitia, trwinging into dis­
ciplined ranks to challenge and annihilate the
alien debaucheries of a Distressful Hour and in
obedience to Divine Prophecy bring into practical
action an Age of New Chivalry.
T H E Y A R E NOT R E L IG IO U S , yet they purpose
to defend the Christian church from every assault of
atheism and effrontery to The Christ, guaranteeing
to each wholesome-minded cltlsen the right to wor­
ship God as he chooses, but ruthlessly crushing every
maneuver to make Christian institutions the Agenc­
ies o f Expediencies for plotters of disorders.
T H E Y A R E N O T P O L IT IC A L , yet they purpose
to use political measures to purge democratic insti­
tutions o f consummate rascals In high places, to
emasculate unlawful jurisdiction by arrogant mon­
ey-bunds over representative office-holders, sod to
hurl petty hueksterers of public confidence, or
bureaucratic despotism™ for factional or personal
advantage?, into the limbo of thing? archaic.
T H E Y A R E N O T ECO N O M IC, yet they propose
to enforce remedial and corrective measures fo r the
permanent relief of this nation economically, by the
wholesale arousing: of the public courage to make
further extensions o f the democratic ideal into a
colossus protective corporation, in which citizens by
their nativity and franchise order th * affaire of
their nation as Common Stockholders and transact
the country's bind tiehs ns In a well-managed, astutely
ordered, dividend-paying corporation.
T H E T IM E H A S CO M E FO R S T E R L IN G L E A D ­
E R S H IP in this nation, hut it must he a leadership
by men who knew what aittneiea are debauching
modem society, where the vulnerable points are
hidden in their armor, and how to pierce them with
weapons of practicable yet merciless recommenda­
tion for more effective forma of sociological regula­
tion.
I I
The Rally
FIV E h a l e persona, all of whom shall be not leas
than IS years of age And not more than fifty
years b f age, who group themselves together in
support of Silver Shirt principles, take the oath of
allegiance to The Christ and officers o f the Gen-
4
oral Staff, designate officera who shall receive certi­
fied Accolade of recognition after investigation,
make the stipulated underwriting locally for the
National War Chest, and provide thomswlves with
Bivouac, Insign ia, and uniform! for all members
after official specification;;, may constitute a Boat,
During the period of organization, find until such
Certified Accolade has been received from the Gen­
eral Staff, the assemblage of such persons shall be
considered not a Fost but a Rally. The official forms
and schedules for filling out arid submission to the
Genera! Staff in order that a Post shall he recog­
nized and function with the enjoyment of alt bene­
fits conferrable by the General Staff, may be pro­
cured by applying to National Headquarters.
The officials of a Rally are three, by election:—
CHAPLAIN, or prospective local commander
5CHIBE, or prospective clerk-secretary
ALMONER, or prospective treasurer-quarter­
master
These officers shall serve pro-tem for the prelimi­
nary work of the Hally. When full investigation of
all applicants has been made and officers have re­
ceived Certified Accolade, the Rally shall become
a Post wi:h appropriate ceremony of dedicating and
sanctifying the Colors as in manual provided for
that purpose. This shall be the only Post officially
recognized in its particular city, town, or hamkt.
All officers shall serve until September 1C, IfKifS,
or until removed for cause before that date by the
General Staff, which causes and the "Round Table ut
which they may he advanced and challenges defend­
ed, are bereih aet forth.
The wives of all married Silvnr Shirt*, or the un­
married women sponsored by uniformed Silver
Shirt*, and each sharing a National Number with
such male member, shall be accorded fult rights and
privileges with their husbands in all Silver Shirt
activities, excepting Field Service under executive
officers. They may Attend all railice, htvouucs, elec­
tions, and festivities, provided they are properly uni­
formed, and have* one Voice independent ot their
male sponsors in each case. But they shall be re­
quired to take the Oath of Allegiance in order to
acquire such Voice,
Only Silver Shirt*, masculine or feminine, may
be considered as lawful member? of such Posts and
entitled to all privileges and Voicing^, who have tak­
en such Oa:h of Allegiance and sealed it with Com­
munion in the Accolade service to he bold on the
first Sunday evening following receipt of aueh Certi­
fied Accolade of Officers from Headquarter*.
5
Unmarried men who have taken the Oath of Alle­
giance may sponsor unmarried women as racinb(>ra
of the naid Post by so declaring their responsibilities
on the records of the Scribe, and any such sponsor
may terminate such responsibility at his option by
similar avowals to the Scribe, whereafter, unless the
said unmarried woman b» sponsored by another
male member, she shall cease to be a member in the
said Post
Whereas tall persons, IS ycara of ajjo or over, who
may have taken the Silver Shirt Oath of Allegiance
may be entitled to participate in all of the organiza­
tion’^ civic, social. and moral benefits, the wearing
of the Silver-Blue uniform either by Spartans or
Muraes may only bo lawful to persons between the
ages nf 18 and IS
O years, of reasonably sound
physique, and generally uceptable as physical risks
by life insurance com panics.
Individuate court-martialed from the organisa­
tion by any Round Table, persons who are non-
member* who affect the Silver-Blue uniform in or­
der to deceive or mislead the public in any activity,
and those who are shown to have violated their Oath
of Allegiance, shall be designated as Outlaw* and
shall be eluded for all Silver Shirt purposes with
the Public Enemies.
Each male Silver Shirt shall be allotted an of­
ficial number within his Post, a wife being allowed
the use of her husband's number, and a sponsored
woman being allowed the number of her sponsor.
These numbers shall be designated by . National
Headquarters, and in the case of death, resignation,
or dismissal, such vacancy in numbering shall at
once be reported to Headquarters by the Scribe,
Except in the case of man and wife, or sponsor
and spunsce, there shall ib« no duplicate numbers
throughoat any Po*ts of North America.
This identifying number shall become a sacred
symbolism and may be worn secretly when its bear­
er is not ip uniform.
Itt
Where Knowledge is Power!
T HE SILVER SHIRTS are unalterably organised
in the manner hereinafter described, to defend
their ranks and their purposes against every
form of assailmerit from without, and every form of
depredation making for emasculation or impotent?
from within.
At their head is their supreme ranking officer
known ass THE CHIEF, holding hie position until
the purposes of The Silver Shirts are declared ac­
complished, because of his projection of the organ­
ization, his intimacy with the national and interna­
tional political and economic situation, and hie
knowledge of the ramifications of the public cne-
m iei His office is not elective excepting in the
case of his death, when the General Staff shall have
the power of selecting his successor.
About him function his supreme cabinet known
as the* GENERAL STAFF. They are men selected
for their Christian probity, their professional qual­
ifications, their moral stamina, their physical cour­
age, and their inexorable determination that no
sacrifice or embroilment shall be deemed too ex­
pensive to clean the Augean Stables of the present
national and international political and economic
miasma.
This General Stuff shall comprise the following
executives:—
THE CHANCELLOR, who shall keep the Great Seal
of the organisation, be the official custodian of
its archives, and act as Solicitor-General in all
matters concerning the probity of its personnel.
THE CHAMBERLAIN, who shall keep the War
Chest of the organization, be the custodian of Its
funds and accounts, its treasurer and its chief
disbursing officer and act for the organization
in all matters involving real property, titles, etc.
THE QUARTERMASTER .who shall be the national
storekeeper of the organisation, having actual
possession of its goods and chattels, dispense and
apportion the same among State Encampment*,
and generally buy and sell for the organization.
THE MARSHAL, who shall act ft* directing head of
the Intelligence Forces of the organization, or
of the polu-e forcea if, as, and when, employed,
or as chief of the active defense forces protecting
lives or properties of those composing the Gen­
eral Staff.
THE CENSOR, who shall act as directing head of
all propaganda, oral or written, that concerns the
organization, serve as managing editorial direc­
tor of all publicity material and act generally
as public relations counsel for the Staff.
These five shall meet at summons of Tha Chief
for consultation purposes and have their authority
delegated to them by him. In group assembled they
7
shall be considered as counsellors only, bui in prac­
tical functioning tho majority of opinion expressed
or voted among thrm shall determine the policies
of the organ]Mtion, although their decisions may
be subject to veto by the chief executive, if gravity
of issue warrants- All edicts from thorn, to become
official to Encampment Commanders, must contain
the Chief's signature, however.
Th* Silver Shirt* are thereafter organised by
State Encampments and Posts within the State En­
campments. Those State Encampments are officered
by personal Appointment? of the General Staff and
remunerated by thorn from the National War Cheat,
They are subject to dismissals ior weakenings to
violence or intimidations from the public enemies,
trail!cfkings with those who would subvert or de­
bauch Liberation principles, failure to carry out
all reasonable orders of the General Staff or its
qualified appointees, or laxity in the conduct of the
responsibilities of their subscriptions to the general
project.
Each Slate Encampment in turn is officered by
Five Executive* so appointed from the Chief and
General Staff* These officers are *0 follows;- -
STATE COMMANDER, who shall he the supreme
officer of all councils within the State not design*
abed as Fasts, be responsible for discipline among
ail Posts and Post officials within his State, and
generally represent The Chief of Staff in all State
matters, edicts, or maneuvers,
ADJUTANT, recognized as second in command in
the absence, disqualification, or inability of the
Commandor, who keeps the Encampment papers,
records, and archives, and has general charge
nf edicts for Posts aa secretary to Encampment
or Commander,
THE PURSER, who is chief fiscal officer for the
State Encampment and State Posts, is responsible
for collection! of *11 moneys due from Posts and
the accounting of same as may be designated by
the Chamberlain of the General Staff.
THE SHERIFF, who is Minister of Police within
tho State organisation, State Deputy of the Na­
tional Marshal, head of any espionage force? with­
in the State, and the police arm of the Command­
er within his jurisdiction*
THE SOLICITOR, who is abate minister Of law and
ritual, public prosecutor at any State Round-
TubJ
ob or Courts Marshal, and general legal rep-
a
TdsentatWt tor the Stato Encampment. In prac­
tice he i&the State a m of the Chancellor.
State Encampments of The Silver Shirt* are di­
vided into Posts, allocated according to counties,
towns. cities, or hamlets as practicable, officered by
the Elective Franchise but such elections subject
to recognition end endorsement by the General
Staff. Until such officers are so recognized and
endorsed by the written form o f the Certified Ac­
colade these Posts are unofficial Rallies as herein­
after described.
Local Posts are officered by Five officials of the
following1designations:—
THE. CHAPLAIN, who fo the acting head of the
1 local unit of thin organization, accountable to tho
State Commander atid Chief of the General Staff,
He shall 'be oH
icor of the day at all ritual cere-,
monies including Pound Tables or Post Courts
Martial, and commanding executive over all activ­
ities and functions of the Post and its working
committees.
THE SCRIBE, who is acting cleric, secretary, and
keeper of the Post papers, documents, and local
archives, right-hand a^istant to the Chaplain in
all Post ceremonials, and second in command
when the Chaplain la unable to fill the duties of
his position.
THE AL110NER, who is acting steward and treas­
urer of the Post’s funds and properties, local
quartermaster in nil business transactions, keeper
of its books and financial accounts and general 1
fiscal agent.
THE BAILIFF, who E
h local police officer for the
Post and within the arun of its jurisdiction, head
of its local espionage or intelligence division, cus­
todian of iLa banners and other pcoountremantfl
of ceremony, and director of the latter according
to manuals provided for the purpose.
THE ADVOCATE, who is local attorney for the
Post and its members in all local controversies
either within or without the Post and public pros­
ecutor at all Round Table* or Courts Martial, de­
fender of the Post at any State Encampments,
conclaves. Round Tables or Courts Martial.
The Five foregoing shall be considered Major
Officer* but each Post shall likewise have seven Jun­
ior -officers. If the Post membership shall be less
than the totality of both Major and Junior officers,
0
one person may hold moru than one office, Junior
officers slmli not require Certified Accolade from
the General Staff. Such offices nro elective and
subject only IL
o revision by olTjctrs of the State En­
campment. The Junior officers of each Post Hhall
be?—
FLAG MARSHAL, who shall be assistant of the
Bailiff at all such duties as the Bailiff may com­
mand.
NURSE JUNIOR, executive head of all Red Cross
work conducted by the Post, likewise Post Stew-
arde-sj.
BANDMASTER, Post musical director, whether
these be in the form of band, orchestra, or Chorus.
CAPTAIN OF DIVISION OF PUBLIC ENUGHT-
ENMENT, as per manual of Poet activities.
CAPTAIN OF DIVISION OF PATRIOTIC PROB­
ITY. a* per manual of Post activities.
CAPTAIN OP DIVISION OF CRIME ERAE
L
E
­
MENT, as per manual of Post activities.
CAPTAIN OF DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL RE­
HABILITATION, as per manual of Post activities.
CAPTAIN OF DIVISION OF PUBLIC MORALS
AND MERCY, as per m anual of Pogt activities.
Officers of the Rally shall function pro-tem,
awaiting Certified Accolade from General Staff after
research into character, records, and affiliations. In
the event that such confirmations are not forthcom-
in, then the following- procedure shall be obliga­
tory i—-
In the event that the General Staff, or State Of­
ficers, have reason to believe that it is not to the
enhancement of the organ!nation to have specified
persons in official positions in Posts, by reason of
information possessed in the Archives concerning
those persons or by Mason of nationality, religious
faith, or commercial affiliations of such persons,
then Chaplains of such Posts shnli bo so notified.
Unless new elective peuionH are held an-d satisfac­
tory persons appointed to those positions, then the
Five State Officers shall proceed to that Poiit and
hold a Round-Table Court Martial of the challenged
electees.
Members of the Pont Khali be informed of this
visitation at least seven days in advance of such
occurrence, by information transmitted to and
through the ScTibe of the Post Convocation of
the Post shall thereby be official, and the Court
Martial shall be setup on the date designated in the
following manner;—
ID
The State Commander shall function as President
of the Court Martial,
The State Solicitor, acting under orders from
the National Chancellor, shall function as Prosecu­
tor.
The State Adjutant shall function as clerk of the
said Court Martial and transmit true copies Of all
proceedings to the Chancellor.
The Post Advocate shall function in the capacity
of defense counsel.
On the completion of argument* for and against
the culpability of the defendant, the latter shall
withdraw from the premises. Whereupon the of­
ficers of the State Encampment, and the Major
Officers of the Post, minus the exempted vote of the
Solicitor and the Advocate, shall act as a petty jury
and ballot upon the guilt or innocence of tho de­
fendant. A majority vote of five shall be deemed
sufficient to exonerate or condemn the defendant,
but tn the event of a unanimous ballot of guilt, then
the defendant shall be dismissed from the organiza­
tion, his National Number cancelled, and he shall
thenceforth be considered an Outlaw as hereinafter
described.
The above procedure shall also be decreed when
charges of malfeasance of any description against
the good of the organization or in defeat of its pur­
poses, are brought to the attention of Post, En­
campment, or General Staff officials by any two
Silver Shirts so reporting to the Scribe or State Ad­
jutant, or when Round-Table TrialB in Effigy of the
Public Enemies shall be ordered held for the gen­
eral enlightenment of all members,
IV
The Bivouac
THE FIRST duty of a Chaplain, or the organiz­
ers of a Local Post of Stiver Shirt* shall bo
to provide a known place of assembly sufficient
to accomodate the numbers who are members of
that Post. It may be a public hall, it may be a
store or empty building, it may be a private home.
Such a Local Headquarters shall bo known as a
Bivouac,
This Bivouac shall be at all times known to na­
tional headquarters, as the designated repository of
The Silver Shirt Banner of Liberation, hereinafter
prescribed.
This Bivouac shall be the working or meeting
headquarters for the Five Major Ranking Officers
11
for each Post who must comply personally with
the following stipulations:—
They shall each he men not less than 21 years
of age and not more than E
>
G
T In sound physical
health, horn in America, of Protestant Christian
parentage and recognized voters at elections in
their epnrmvumtiea.-
Oh occasion they may be required to show copies
of letters from recognized clergymen that they have
either been baptized in a Christian church, or have
been attendants- at such church at some time during
their lives.
The Chaplain shall he the titular head of each
Post, so recognized at Headquarters.
The Almoner fchall have charge of all fiscal af­
fairs of each Post and 'be held accountable for the
hnaitcial records and cash distributions, money
transfers to headquarters, and any goods or libera-
' tin t that may be consigned from Headquarters. He
shall be required to furnish bond to Headquarters
for tlte faithful discharge of such duties and pay­
ments.
The Scribe shall keep all rosters of membership,
and'have charge of all correspondenee dealing with
the Post, excepting personal correspondence be­
tween the Oeneral Staff and Chaplains in the line
of military orderings.
THE BANNED of the Silver Shirt* ihnll be a
flag of pure white silt, muslin, or bunting, at
least 108 inches in "length and 72 inches in
width, with or without fringe as expediency may
dictate, Twenty inches from top and left-side there
shall be sewn thereon, upon both sides and backing
up each other, the letter “ h" in bright scarlet.
This letter “L” standing f6r Love, L®v*!ty, and
Liberation, shall measure at least 24 inches tall and
18 inches wide, and must be cut from a doth of fast-
dye that will not stain the folds of the white in the
event of a wetting.
There should be one of these Banners for each
11 Silver Sbil-t* a-ttaehed to each Post,
An American flag should also be provided in the
same ratio, and they should always be displayed to­
gether.
These flags and banners in each Bivouac should be
kept under the Jurisdiction of a Junior Officer, The
V '
The Christ Banner
12
FUa Marshal, and it shall be his duties not only to
distribute or Otherwise dispenaE those flags On Sp-.
propriate occasions when the Silver Shirt# are
marching but to keep them at all times in immacu­
late condition.
Net Banner of the Christ can exhibit the slightest
smear <
?r mar of anything befouling I
This, is not fanaticism but a stipulation of morale
for the principles we are expounding and the tenets
for -which we stand in the eyes -of thb nation.
In Addition to the Post flags and banners, the
home of each Silver Shirt should possess a similar
Liberation ensign a, which -can be easily manufac­
tured out of a twice of new sheeting, and displayed
on all occasions as an enhancement of morale for
the entire movement.
These flags and banners should never he left at
mast after sundown!
VI
The Silvered Hordel
r
‘ IS. the uniform of The Silver Shirt that gives
the national gesture prestige in the eyes-of North
America. The effect on morale, public or per­
sonal, of a uniformed citsaenry epitomising Chris­
tian Soldiers of Peace, pledged to the actualization
of the highest civic and social tenets by non-violent,
'means, and emblazonlug the massed strength of
Christian patriots to the eye of the public enemies,
accomplishes more than a thousand blustering
speeches or libraries of volumes on theoretical
ethics.
The uniform of th e Silver Shirt* com prises as its
piece-de-resistance a shirt of silver gray with m ill-.
tary collar, belted into the type of trousers known
as “knickers” which cover the knee and button four,
inches down the calf of each leg.
These trousers are of the riding-pattern. never
"plufc-fpurg” or golfing trousers. They are .fash­
ioned of corduroy, of the color known as Navy
Blue, and coo be procured at mast Array and Navy
stores at a cost of $2.7B per pair.
The dress for the calf of the leg in officers shall
be polished leathern puttees; the dross for the calves
of lay troopers shall be gray golf-socks of a hue to
match the shirt as nearly as possible, held tightly
over tjie buttoned part of the trouser-legs by a
strong elastic garter. Tho shoes should -be. black.
The costumes for misses are described further 6n.
Silver Shirt Troopers as hereinafter described
n
shall be divided into two classes: Spartan* flnd
Copperhead*. The head-gear of both should bn a
campaign-hat of the Koyal-3toanted police type,
excepting that the hat-band of each division shall
be different. See the page immediately following.
The necktie worn with the military shirt should
be of blue silk, a fore-in-hand, of a color to match
the trousers. On the widest part of this tie at the
bottom should be worked in red silk the Trooper’s
national Number. On the left breast, between the
top of the buttoned pocket and the ridge of the
shoulder, there must be embroidered a 4-inch *c*rlat
letter “L" of the same type-style as the "L” on the
Liberation banner. A Norfolk coat of the trouser-
material with four buttoned pockets shall be of­
ficial for wearing in inclement weathers.
VII
The Valiant/
TIIKRE is absolute democracy in the ranks of
Th* Silver Shirt* with butene exception. Obed-
* ience to officers shall be military. Neverthe­
less, the ranks of The Silver Horde shall be dis­
tinguished by two classifications of troopers.
During the Hally stage of each Post, all pledgors
shall bo consalered as Cadets. During this interval
they shall provide themselves with their Bivouac,
their Liberation Banner, and their uniforms. Those
uniforms may be purchased at nominal cost from
Headquarters for an average quality of materials,
and owned as personal apparel. They may he tail­
ored as expensively as the purse of the individual
Silver Shirt permits, however, if official colors arc
strictly observed.
When the Certified Accolade from Headquarters
has been received, converting such Ballien into
Posts, all eligible, uniformed Troopers shall thence­
forth be known as Spartan*.
They are the great rank and file of The Silvery
Horde, pledged to combat the public enemies both
without and within, to maintain the closest liaaons
with the police and legitimate military authorities,
to augment and uphold the hands of all honest
peace officers, to do emergency service in the inter­
ests of law and order in time of riot, mob rule, and
public tumult, and to act as a great reservior of
moral strength for honest public officials hindered
or handicapped in the sworn discharge of their du­
ties.
14
These men are designated by the hand of navy-
blue silk worn about the crown of their campaign
hats, of the exact color of their trousers,
B it there shall be a Special Order of Merit amid
these laymen troopers, known as The Copperhead*.
The Copperheads shall be an Inviolate classifica­
tion of Silver Shirii who in the discharge of their
oath3 or their brevets have been the subjects of
either lethal attack, or threats against their lives
for having turned Silver Shin*,
It is the ?wnm duty of every Silver Shirt who hat
had a threat made in any form against his life, to
immediately report the sumo in all details to his
Post, designating the maker of the threat and under
what conditions it whs made, whereupon the maker
of the threat shall be tried before the Post Round
T»ble, whether or not he is present in person, and
full account of such proceedings transmitted to
the General Staff for broadcasting throughout all
Encampments and Posts of the entire nation.
If criminal proceeding can be taken against the
maker of the throat, the subject shall have the en­
tire resources of the National Organization placed
at uis back tu m ake such prosecution effective. If
criminal proceedings cannot be taken because of
lack of witnesses or evidence, the subject shall so
evidence. In that event the maker of the threat
is doubly marked for such Silver Shirt attention, in
that he has contrived to make his death threats out­
side the powers of the law to punish him.
Where such threat has duly h&en chronicled and
recorded on the books of the Post, the subject of
the threat shall receive at the hands of his brethren
or his superiors the Brown Leather H«t-Bnn<l of
The Copperhead and ho shall be entitled to have the
official <
JL/’ on his left shoulder and the number on
hia neck tie embroidered not in red worsted hat in
golden braid.
Even officers of Posts and Encampments may not
wear such golden insignia unless they have personal­
ly been the objects of such unlawful depredations,
-Spartans who have been under fire and exposed
to any type of violence inflicting wounds upon their
persons in collaboration with police authorities, or
upholding the hands of harassed public serv&nte,
shall also be receivers of such citations and distinc-
tionfi.
The Copperhead■ shall be considered as constitut­
ing the picked body Of the Elect in The Silvery
Horde, and their names shall pot only be inscribed
16
publicly on the routers of their Posts and State
Encampments, but shall be posted on a perpetual
Honor Roll at National Headquarters.
VIII
The Scourge
THE SYMBOLIC irm i of the Silver Shirt* arc
repreiented by the Scourge of Cord*, with
which Christ drove forth the money-changer*
from the Temple, It symbolizes force without blood­
shed, and epitomizes the great moral weapon of the
Christ Men, It is the constant reminder that un
occasion arose in 'Christ’s life when action was re­
quisite to clear a holy place from befoulmcnt by a
type of physical action. He did not stand on the
opposite side of the street and bless the money­
changers, nor pray for them. Neither did He wait
for angels to flock around him and strike the mis­
creant# dead, Ho grasped a knout of simple manu­
facture and dealt vigorous physical blows.
The Scourge of the Silver Shirt* is made by se­
curing a length of tough woven clothesline, not the
rolled-cotton variety that will shrink or curl, and
looping it into six lengths, each 24 inches from the
rope-he]ve to the tip.
Crease the line at the point of the loop and bring
the two single ends back to the helve. Then cut
the line and wrap it with cotton-thread tightly to
prevent unraveling.
Take another length of the same rope and wind
around the loops at the end where the free ends
terminate, I,ay these windings carefully and tight­
ly to a distance of six inches, sever the winding
portion and sow to the balance of the handle.
Soak the handle in shellach thoroughly and put
aside to harden, Give the handle as many wrap­
pings ns may be necessary to create a doughty
weapon that wilt withstand rough usage. Let the
three loops serve as the lashes.
A loop may be sewed upon the end of the handle,
if desired, to hang upon a hook at the belt on
parade, or w t » p about the wrist to prevent loss in
action.
These Scourges are ceremonially bestowed in the
Rite of the Accolade or Consecration Service given
in the Silver Shirt Manual.
The Nurses
AIX feminine member* of Silver Shirts Posts
shall be known as Nur#e»* Nurses are the only
women permitted in modern warfare on the
firing line, hence such designation. It is their pro­
vince to nurse, to nurture, and to hold their men
to action. Nurses may be eligible to the positions
of Almoner or Scribe but not to Chaplain, The
Chaplain’s lady is automatically designated as
Nurse Superior, an honorary position, S3 the Chap­
lain’s assistant among the feminine contingent. She
sha31 have one assistant, elected by the Post, and
"known as N u n c Junior. All active Red Cross work
done by the Post shall be under the supervision of
Nurse Junior. Nurse Superior shall be laison officer
between the Red Cross Contingent headed by Nurse
Junior and officials of the Post.
Both field and ceremonial uniforms for women
shall consist of a plain frock of silver gray, of a
skirt-length to the mode, gathered at the waist with
a belt of blue. No jewelry or no millinery is of­
ficial.
On the left shoulder above the heart should be
embroidered the Scarlet J
‘LMnot more than 4 inches
in height. If the woman shall have been demarked
at any time by the Death Throat, or shall have suf­
fered injury to her person, the "L” may be worked
in Gold.
Over this frock of grey shall be worn a skirts
length cape of Navy Blue. It shall be fashioned
with a strip of velvet at the threat in a manner to
permit the casting of the folds back over both
shoulders. It shall have a hood which falls back be­
tween _th« sholders for lifting over the head in case
of inclement weather in the open.
Over the exact spot on the left shoulder that
the Liberation *'L” is embroidered on the frock shall
be worked in scarlet silk the National Number of the
Lady, which shall be the same numeral as her hus­
band or sponsor, as hereinbefore set forth.
The Navy Blue cape may be lined with scarlet silk
or satin. This cape should be worn at all parade
work, but may be laid aside at auditorium ceremon­
ials.
IX
17
The War Chest
SINEWS OF WAR are provided for this gigantic
conflict with Mammon in High and Low Dacca
by the creation of a National War Chest sup­
plied solely from the membership and deposited in
banka officered only by financiers who are Silver
Shirt*, or of the Christian religion, or avowedly in
sympathy with Silver Shirt principles.
Five candidates for The Silver Shirt, gathering in
The Rally, choosing temporary officers and forward­
ing application papers to Headquarters, give proof
of their serious intention by contributing $10 each
to this National War Cheat, this contribution to be
forwarded with the said application papers.
Such contribution entitles each candidate to LIB­
ERATION WEEKLY, the National Organ of The
Silver Shirt*, edited under the supervision of the
Supreme Commander, and sent to them weekly re­
gardless of their standing in -State Encampments.
Thereafter each Silver Shirt in Post shall pay to
his Post Almoner his monthly membership dues of
$1, man and woman, payable on the first day of each
calendar month. There shall be no other assess­
ments upon his purse excepting the cost of his unb
form.
Of this membership fee, to maintain him in good
standing, the Post Almoner shall remit fifty cents
from each dollar b o received, to the State Almoner
at State Encampment headquarters, utilizing the
other fifty cento for the expenses of the Post, These
expenses are definitely specified in dispatrhe* to
Encampment and Post Almoners.
Of such remittfmccB to State Encampment Al­
moners, the latter shall retain one-half for ex­
penses of State Organization and specifically defined
salaries and expenses of said State officers. The re­
maining half, or twenty-five cento from each dol­
lar, shall be remitted to the National War Chest
for equally definite expenditures as prescribed for
the conduct of the General Staff.
All gift* or donation* from sponsors or supports**
in larger amount* (ban the above, shall be rem itted
entoto to National Headquarter* for deposit and
inclusion in tb* National War C h u t, and there shall
be no departure from tbi* ruling at any time. Al­
moner* shall be required to give bond for the faith,
ful discharge of their trust* ha the above stipula­
tion*.
If any Post or Encampment incur a deficit by
reason of the stipulated conduct of its official fbne-
X
18
tions, 3Uth drficit tnay hti MAde up from this Na­
tional War Cheat on presentation of the properly
attested petition for such assistance.
XI
The Praprom
C ITIZENS of America! We come to you march­
ing, as a Great Christian Militia, offering: yon
not the sword but The Scourge of CordsI We
come to yon epitomizing The Christ Merciful but
Militant, putting the battle hymn: "Onward, Chris­
tian Soldiers" upon your lips, tho Silver-Blue uni­
form upoil your bodies, the Scourge of Cords into
your hands, '
We say, Let us clean the Augean Stables of mod­
em society in fulfillment of Great Pyramid Proph­
ecy, Let ua take the Scourge of Cords and drive
the Changers of Money from the Temples of Chris­
tian culture.
We do not gather about banquet tables and toast
one another. Our only banqueting table is that
of Holy Communion. We do not pass resolutions
and wait for little men to aid uh politically when
th e y discern personal advantage in proffering such
aid. We have a program of action to sustain And
ex ecu te. ~ S ' '■
'
We divide our forces militantly intd Five Major
Divisions, organized and uniformed for aggressive
action-—
I The Division of Public Enlightenment -
If the AmOTHran people could have the scales
of ignorance struck from tlioir eyes and know,
accurately what tho diablerie is, from which
they are suffering, and who is responsible for
it, they would arise, in their political might and
clean the Halls of Statecraft and Commerce as
qf a Great Pestilence. Wo propose to so en­
lighten them.
II The Diviiion of Patriotic Probity
The integrity of our nation as a nation, the
welfare of our people as a people, mnst come
ahead of every sectional, group, caMe, race, or
personal advantage. Wc propose to expose and
drive forth every dob&uchcr of the public probi­
ty, to halt all further diatribes against Chris­
tian institutions, to a*e that a New Regime of
public servants are elected to office who shall
be secretly pledged to the ideals 'of Tbe Christ
10
ahead of iiny political or commercial party, or
clique.
[|[ Tli* Division of Crime frlic m c D l
The Ganff^tcr, the Backeteer, the Gunman, and
the Extortion 1st m jst constitute a chapter in
American history that is closed without further
delay. Ef agencies of civil law are breaking
down, we propose the immediate creation of a
uniformed civic body that shall deal "with the
lawless clement after the nature of an Inter­
state Police. It shall seek out and apprehend
as it may all criminals of every nature, turn
theta over to the constituted author!tie®, aco
that effective lawful action ia taken to prosecute
them, arid that police and judiciary fulfill their
function® without any equivocation until the
Christ Form of Democracy is set up. We are
unalterably opposed to any bond being given
for avowed public enemies who may thu3 be ap­
prehended. and we shall hold up to all public
odium within our national power those officials
who legally or otherwise facilitate the escape
of such public enemies from their just deastrts.
IV The Division of Induttrial Rehabttitwlio»
As the Division for Public Enlightenment func­
tions under our direction and disseminates vital
and effective information designating and de­
scribing the activities of the public cnemieBr
many of the pernicious agencies making for con­
tinued Induetrial deflation and distress will auto­
matically disappear. But wc propose that there
shftll be no revival of their activities by creating
a permanent body within each Post who shall
direct and sponsor certain practical expedients
for correcting present abuses, turning an un­
employed anti potentially lawless element into
a body of constructive citizenry that shall work
to ^taliilize our institutions, put legitimate cap­
ital into channels of trade, provide and finance
such enterprises as may enhance the general
commercial credit, and emasculate those preda­
tory elements who are now using strangulation
of industry as an aggressive method for the
accomplishment of mischievous objectives* See
the Silver Gray literature on the Christ De­
mocracy for specific details.
V The Divliion of Public Moral* and M ercy
Millions uf dollars are contributed fur charitable
purposes in this nation every year. Too great
a quota of this money goes to remunerate char*
ity workers in professional positions. Grout
amende® of practical assistance to the worthy
30
needy are often pcrnkiinu&ly emasculated to
secretly increase the public suffering and thus
hasten the overthrow of our raw cherished in­
stitutions. We propose to renovate profefwional
charity projects of paid workers and to hold up
to public odium all officials who privately profit
from such alms distribution in any form. Three
hundred thousand boys and girls are reported
to be adrift as vagabonds in this nation at the
present time, without hemes, parental influences,
or means of supjiort to keep them from lawless­
ness. We propose to arrest and end this minor
vagabondage Under Silver Shirt auspices, putting
1 this youthful army in concentration centers, and
forthwith drilling it in the essence of good citi­
zenry nnd stability of character until each minor
shall have been placed under a spon&or of
prestige. Groat ngonclea of moral debauchery
auLttlely utilize the stage, screen, radio, and pan­
dering periodicalt) to keep the Christian element
of this nation Intimidated and without inora]
stamina t® halt such depredations against probi­
ty. We propose Silver ShiH Boards of Probity
and Morale in each locality who shall create an
overwhelming public censure, or take such oth­
er lawful means as may lie within their juris­
diction and discretion, to halt this campaign of
attrition against morale and morula. We art
irrevocably against any form of exaggerated
Crime Publicity in the public press, ou the pub­
lic stage or moving picture screen, or over the
radio. We would make it a misdemeanor pun­
ishable by fme and imprisonment for the name
of any criminal to be eet in type and circulated
after the eonautnmutton qf any typo of public
depredation, or for the commission of any form
of crime to 'be delineated on stage Or screen, or
for any death dealing scene or death in con­
summation to be exhibited nn stage or screen.
Or any plot to be delineated in which Violence
against the person Is the pioc-r-di* resistance. We
favor local ordinances whereby proprietors or
managers of such (how places shall be held re­
sponsible for such acts against the public probity
and such show-houses padlocked automatically
by their sentences, A Division of SlNer Skirl*
shall make it their business to elevate the aspira­
tions of the community, by the above expedi­
ents, and to substitute courage and valor as
themes for entertainment instead of intimida­
tion and debauchery.
There is concrete work to be started in every
21
American community where a Post of Tho Silver
Shirt* is organized and proceeds to function.
The moment that a Post is properly ordained, it*
Bivouac procured, its officers elected, and its local
force of Spartan Silver Shirt* pledged to this work
of rehabilitation by their oaths to officers, one an­
other, national flag, and the Christ, information will
begin coming from headquarters for Silver Shirt*
exclusively, naming the public enemies and their
acts of depredation. Men who cart attest to such de­
predations from their positions of authority, will be
routed through the State Encampments and Posts,
putting the individual member not only in possession
of positive information on which he can act intel­
ligently, but giving him a practical remedial pro­
gram for individual effort in massed association
with his follows of similar whoiesome-mindedness, bo
that remedies may be effected without banquetings,
without talk, without red tape, without intimida­
tions public or private.
There have been prepared 22 booklets of Princi­
ples called—
“THE TWENTY-TWO ARTICLES OF THE
CHRIST DEMOCRACY"
These Silver-Gray booklets present the entire pic­
ture of every phase of the new Christ Democracy
which is riding in on the heels of all this economic
and social upset. They delineate an entirely new
principle In statecraft, that is neither socialism or
communism, hut shows a better and more equitable
social order baaed on the Corporation Principle with
citizens the holders of the Nation's Common Stock
and drawing minimum dividends that shall forever
henceforth banish the menace of death from actual
starvation. These booklets, amazing in their com­
pleteness of exposition, are the general educational
literature of The Silver Shirt* and describe the
program toward which this Christian Militia is ag­
gressively working.
A hundred abortive "movements” to aid in this
national crisis have been started in the past three
years, to fait by the wayside because their plat­
forms were based on the assumption that this dis­
tress was but a passing episode in human life Instead
of the Great Armageddon designated in Divine
Prophecy, Or their leaders have not known the
true nature of the influences they were challenging
blindly.
In the archives and minds of the leaders of The
Silver-Shirt* is irrefutable information that if im-
2
2
properly or prematurely released would bring the
swift murdering of it* custodians, if its extent were
recognized in tbe camps of public enemies. The
men at the head of Tb* Silver Shirt* are taking
their live* in their hands to arouse and organize
the Christ Forces of this nation. They have already
been threatened with death for their activities, prov­
ing incontestably that they are not dealing in buga­
boos, nor embarked upon an enterprise for their
own social, political, or financial aggrandizement.
Thi* i» no Children’* Crusade that is now swing­
ing into reality. It is the open challenge of an or­
ganization of New Vigilantes that purpose to ac­
complish works under loaders who have proven that
they cannot be bought or debauched, and who are
fully acquainted with tho character and identity of
the enemy whom they accost not only in tlm under­
world but in the world of respectability and ab­
struse finance,
Men of the highest Christian probity and afflu­
ence are uniting behind it* objective*, creating an
organized force for rightcoutnes* that wilt not, or
doe* not expect to, disband or relent in it* effec­
tive aggressiveness before March 4, 1945.
None but communicant? of an avowed Christian
faith are solicited or permitted within its ranks, and
if subterfuge of any sort in employed to gain ad­
mittance thereto, for the disparagement or injury
of its objectives, thia organization t^setves the right
to take such reprisals of its own against such traf­
fickers in moral honesty as may not violate the laws
of the State or Nation.
This is a public gesture that has its caissons deep
down in the bedrock of the individual Christian
conscience. Asftueh, it makes its hid for allegiance.
