{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__maxwell___plenocracy_science_of_abundance.pdf","mytitle":"Plenocracy Science Of Abundance","mylang":"de"}
PLENOCRACY
The Science of Creating
Abundance for All
By
SAMUEL ROBERT MAXWELL
(Author of The Science of Mastership —
Unseen Forces and How to Use Them.)
CITIZENS' UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Publishers
6 N. Michigan Ave. CHICAGO, ILL.
LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Copyright 1933
By C. FRANKLIN DAVIS
Printed in U.S.A.
Cl.ARKE-McELROY PUB. CO.
Chicago, 111.
DEDICATION
This book is dedicated to the average man.
A great scientist on one occasion delivered an
address on an important subject to an audience of
average men and women. At the conclusion he asked
a member of the audience how he liked it. The man
said, "You put the hay in the rack too high; we
could not reach it."
The audience could not understand the language
he used. He understood it, but they did not. The
average man does not understand scientific language.
This book is written in language he can understand.
The average man is asking a great many questions
in regard to his own welfare, the welfare of his
family, and society. He wants to know what is the
cause of the present depression and since he is not
responsible for the depression, why should he and
his family be made to suffer? Since the old system
has failed, is it possible to organize a new system
of wealth production and distribution whereby he
and his family will be placed beyond the fear of
poverty?
The answers to these important questions are in
the Universe and it is the business of science to find
the answers. Science has found the answers. The
answers to these vital questions are found in this
book.
The Author.
FOREWORD
THE
AUTHOR of this book has given us a volume that
is stimulating, refreshing, vigorous and practical. The
book is on Economic Science. Books written on this subject
are, generally speaking, dry and dull, but this book is ar
resting, interesting and contains a compelling challenge. It
is a complete departure from all the old conventional methods
of dealing with the problem of economics. In fact, we know
that this department of human activity has never been re
duced to a science.
This realm of thought and action is basic and deals with
the production and distribution of the commodities that sus
tain life. Because of its basic importance, it ought to be
reduced to a science. The author of this book claims that
the economic system he has outlined herein is a science. He
calls it PLE'NOCRACY, or the science of creating abundance
for all. In my humble opinion he has proven his claim. When
this system is put into Universal operation, poverty will be
abolished and all will have plenty. Everybody having plenty,
there would be no incentive to steal, hoard, inflate, or exploit.
When the information contained in this book is distributed
amongst the masses, then PLENOCRACY will have passed
out of the realm of theory into that of full realization.
To be sure, our present day economists, industrial and
political leaders, will ridicule such a plan by saying that it
is impractical, too idealistic and uneconomic; that it will do
away with our present method of doing business.
The opposition of these men is perfectly natural. They
were born into a thought atmosiphere that was created by
the old economic set up. They have lived in this atmosphere
all their lives and the thought and speech centers in their
brains are saturated with the ideas of the old system. The
opposition of the representatives of the old system to the
new is not unusual. It is a natural phenomena. History is
replete with such instances.
The author of this book explains how we got into the
quagmire of our present economic chaos and claims that it
is the natural consequence of an unscientific, unplanned eco
nomic system. He suggests a remedy based upon the way
that the working principle of the Universe works. This
principle has created and sustains the Universe. It has been
in operation since the beginning of time and always will be.
It is the law which the Pilgrim fathers obeyed and it is the
law which the founders of our Republic embodied in the Con
stitution. It is a basic law; a law which should be invoked
to control the production and distribution of food stuffs for
human sustenance. It is the law that we should have obeyed
and exemplified in the economic history of our country as
new problems came up. Instead of that, we refused to com
ply with this law and in our mad desire for profits, we
adopted short cut, man made methods to increase these
profits at the expense of human life, which has resulted in
enormous wealth for the few and increasing poverty for the
many.
The author of this book does not claim to be the "Ultima
Thule" of knowledge on economics, but he does claim to have
discovered the basic law of life and the conditions under
which this law has acted since the beginning of creation,
and the conditions under which it will act on this earth
amongst human beings. He has suggested that there is only
one way out that will be permanent in its effect upon human
ity. He has in this book shown by a survey of the Universe,
how this law has worked and how it is working now. He
shows how the old economic system has utilized the energy
of the Universe for selfish purposes and by building a dam
across the stream of wealth which flows from the source of
energy, has diverted the bulk of that stream into the pockets
of the few.
This law, which is the law of use and service, is not So
cialism. It is not Sovietism, nor is it any form of radicalism.
When it is once understood, it is just common horse sense,
and in full accord with the principles that underlie our form
of government.
Each era of world change has been identified with some
great invention, or discovery, affecting the destiny of man.
Have these inventions been used to help man? Incidentally
they have, but under the old economic set up these inventions
have been used primarily to cut down costs and increase
profits. Service to humanity was incidental. The Old Cap
italism failed to see that "He profits most who serves best."
The author of this book is not opposed to giving: large re
wards to those who serve humanity. However, he has shown
that under PLENOCRACY the law of increase will give
those who render large service to humanity much larger re
wards for their services than could be obtained under the
old economic set up. In fact the natural law of increase
furnishes a stream of abundance which is so great that all
the members of society are abundantly rewarded in propor
tion to the amount of the service they render.
In PLENOCRACY the able bodied non-producer who con
tributes no service would get nothing. The inventor like Edi
son, who renders great service to society, would be rewarded
correspondingly. Under the old economic set up, the majority
of the inventors have been robbed of their inventions. The
inventor gets nothing but experience and iplenty of time for
reflection.
The author has correlated first principles into a working
hypothesis for the betterment of humanity as a whole. His
reasoning should be followed closely and understandingly.
One reading of his book will not suffice. It must be read and
re-read, digested and assimilated slowly. Then the whole
philosophy and plan of action will become apparent and re
veal itself as no idle dream, but an actual force in operation
in the Universe. This philosophy will appeal powerfully to
the great masses of the people, because it means plenty for
everybody. It will take nothing from anybody, but will give
something to everybody who is willing to give something in
service to society. It will also give him the basis of correct
thinking and action.
All great changes in past eras have had their beginnings
first in change of thought on the part of the people. We are
entering a new era. Our present day political economists,
still working with the old ideas of a century ago, are reluc
tant to give in and make a change. This is why we cannot
get any help from them. They are all baffled and admit that
we are in a dreadful state, but they cannot agree on what
is the best way out of the dilemma. The reason for this is
that they are working along the lines of the antiquated the
ories of the past, which have failed. They are trying to
build upon false principles. The new age calls for a com
plete change in the economic system and it must come not
along the Old Capitalistic lines, but through the sane reason
ing of PLENOCRACY, or "plenty for all".
The author of this book is an educated man. The book
gives the evidence of his wide reading and rich experiences.
His contacts have been numerous and his style of writing
is clear, crisp, dynamic and inspiring. In putting his thoughts
on paper, the author in my estimation has rendered a great
service to humanity.
A great many remedies are being presented at this time.
Most of them are surface applications; merely palliatives
that do not reach the cause of the malady. Society is sick:
the poison of greed has entered the blood. We need a remedy
that purines the blood and in my opinion, the author has the
remedy. It must be remembered, however, that no system can
cure our ills within a week or a month. The disease from
which we suffer is of long standing. It has been carefully
cultivated by the exponents of special privilege. It took some
time to reduce a nation with the greatest resources in the
world to a state of beggary for millions and it will take some
time for the convalescence.
The author of this book has no quarrel with personalities.
Personalities are like the leaves of the forest. They come
and go, but the trees remain. The trees are the systems. The
author is opposed to false systems. He would abolish the
false and pernicious system that produces personalities like
itself.
I would close this introduction by quoting, in substance,
what a noted philosopher said, which is as follows:
"There is a mental attitude which is a bar against all infor
mation, which is proof against all argument, and which can
not fail to keep a man in everlasting ignorance. That mental
attitude is condemnation before investigation."
R. S. Piper, M.D.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I
Plenocracy —The Power of Plenty.
CHAPTER II
Will Plenocracy Work?
CHAPTER III
Setting the Stage.
CHAPTER IV
The Natural and The Artificial.
CHAPTER V
Natural Distribution.
CHAPTER VI
What Is an Economic iSystem For?
CHAPTER VII
The Grand Illusion—Fictions.
CHAPTER VIII
Clearing Away the Rubbish.
CHAPTER IX
Is Plenocracy Based on Reality?
CHAPTER X
Technocracy.
CHAPTER XI
The Law of Right Relationships.
CHAPTER XII
Who Are the Enemies of Plenocracy?
CHAPTER XIII
Plenocracy, a New Business Technique.
CHAPTER XIV
Recapitulation.
Chapter One
PLENOCRACY
The Science of Creating Abundance for All.
"Let us take our bloated nothingness out of
the paths of the Divine circuits." —Emerson.
'HE very fact that the present economic system
A has failed time after time; the last failure re
sulting in a complete breakdown of every part
thereof, is a significant proof that the system is not
scientific.
Political Economists, who are merely special
pleaders, have tried to make apologies for the sys
tem, by saying that these cycles of depression are
natural; that they are not in any way connected
with the system; that they operate outside the sys
tem and are parts of the general scheme of things.
This is an exceedingly weak defense. It is an at
tempt to hide the shame of disease behind natural
phenomena. These cycles are evidences of an un
healthy body. Scientific Physicians say that disease
is an attempt on the part of Nature's forces, to burn
up the refuse that accumulates in a person's body,
who does not obey the Laws of Health.
The refuse and poisons accumulate up to a certain
point; when that point is reached, Nature cannot
function. Something must be done. If nothing is
done, then the person must die. But Nature is or
ganized to sustain and prolong life; so she begins
the task of burning up the refuse. This burning up
process is revealed in fevers. After the crisis is over,
and Nature is free to function in a clean body again,
2 PLENOCRACY
the person through disobedience of Law, commences
to pile up more refuse, and Nature has to burn it up
again. This is a simple and sensible explanation of
cycles in disease.
The same law operates in all forms of living or
ganisms. Any organized group of individuals —
governmental, religious or economic —are either
healthy or they are unhealthy. Strikes, riots, insur
rections, revolutions and Cycles of Depression are
evidences of a diseased condition. They are also
attempts on the part of Nature to burn up the ac
cumulated refuse, and free the body of the organism
from poisons.
This Universe is a perfectly healthy system. It
is balanced, harmonious and functions every moment
in the smoothest conformity with law. As T. R.
Moulton, the noted Astronomer, says: "To an As
tronomer, the most remarkable and interesting thing
about the Universe is not its vast extent in space;
nor the number and great masses of its stars; nor
the violent forces that operate in the stars; nor the
long periods of astronomical time, but that which
holds him awestruck is the perfect orderliness of the
Universe; the majestic succession of celestial phe
nomena."
"From the tiny Satellites in the Solar System, to
globular clusters, the galaxy and exterior galaxies,
there is no chaos, nothing hap-hazard, nothing
capricious."
"The orderliness of the Universe is the supreme
discovery of science. It is that which gives us hope
that we shall be able to understand, not only the ex
terior Universe, but also our bodies and mind."
The Universe that Moulton refers to is that vast
THE POWER OF PLENTY S
region of systems that lies beyond the reach of
human interference.
Man spoils everything he touches. There are some
exceptions to this statement. The exceptions are
furnished by high-class thinkers, artists, musicians
and poets. Such men move in the higher realms of
thought and emotion. They do not work for com
missions or profit. They never think of self-ag
grandizement or applause. They are the transparent
mediums, through which the Spirit of Joy, Beauty
and Harmony expresses itself. They co-operate with
the Soul of the Universe.
Apart from this small company of rare spirits, I
repeat, man spoils everything he touches. His sphere
of action is on this earth. Man cannot add anything
to the sum-total of the forces that are around him.
He cannot change the laws that govern these forces.
There is only one thing that he can do: He can put
things together so that he can use these forces. By
putting things together, he makes his tools, instru
ments and machines. Through these equipments,
man can use the forces of the Universe to create
abundance for all, to enrich, broaden and ennoble
life. Or, on the other hand, he can use them to im
poverish, weaken and destroy life. Destroy the
masses by war exploitation and poverty, and himself
by an excess of riches. An excess of riches is more
destructive than an excess of poverty.
What a stupid herd of animals the average run
of human beings are. They will allow themselves to
be marshalled into armies to kill each other for less
than a dollar a day. During the past 3000 years, this
good old earth, our Mother, has enjoyed only 260
years of peace. Her gentle bosom has been drenched
PLENOCRACY
with the blood of millions; ending in that awful
tragedy, the world war, and the end is not yet.
The pure energy of the Sun, now harnessed in
mighty engines of war, is ready to be turned loose
in the horrors of the destruction again.
War, slavery, exploitation, crime,
poverty, disease and every other evil
that affects humanity can, in nearly
every instance, be traced to a perverted
economic system. And the perverted
economic system is the result of per
verted Human Nature.
The Holy Book says: "God made man upright;
but he has sought out many inventions." It also says :
"The love of money is the root of all evil." Money,
in itself, is merely an instrument; a standard of
value. It is neither good nor bad. It is THE LOVE
of MONEY that is the root of all evil. The love of
money created the desire for profit, and profit is the
pulsating heart of the Old Capitalism.
The Old Capitalism is not the outgrowth of simple,
untarnished human nature. It is not the outgrowth
of enlightened self-interest. It is the outgrowth of
an uncontrolled, unhealthy self-interest. Enlightened
Self-interest is co-operative, not competitive. En
lightened Self-interest works for the whole and not
a part. The best interests of the individual are se
cured when the best interests of all the members of
Society are provided for. The Old Capitalism makes
the claim that it is organized to render service to
the whole. It is natural that it should attempt to
cover its faults with a mantle of respectability; but
claims must be tested by actual performances. The
claims of the Old Capitalism vanish in the light of
THE POWER OF PLENTY 5
its works. It renders lip-worship to service of the
whole, and gives the devotion of its heart to profit
for the few.
Before advancing to an examination of the philos
ophy and program of PLENOCRACY, let us con
sider how the Old Capitalism came into being; the
framework of its philosophy and the methods it em
ployed to fill the minds of the people with its fallacies.
We will do this, in order to bring out by contrast,
the far-reaching differences between the two sys
tems. There is just as much difference between the
two as there is between perverted human nature
and the clean, healthful harmony of the Solar Sys
tem.
One of the Lecturers on Political Economy, at
Cambridge University, said that the current political
economy was nothing more or less than an apology
for Capitalism.
When we read a book that professes to deal with
Political Economy, and we wade through page after
page, where the writer discusses production, distri
bution, profits, wages, dividends, exchange, banking
interest, rent and all the other activities of the Old
Captalism, we are liable to think that we are study
ing a science. We are not; we are simply reading
an explanation of the way the Old Capitalism func
tions.
If you would write a book explaining the Activities
of Feudalism, the system that ruled Europe before
the introduction of Capitalism, would that explana
tion be a science? Certainly not. So all the books
that we have in our Schools, Colleges and Universi
ties are nothing more or less than explanations of
how the Old Capitalism works. If the Old Capitalism
6 PLENOCRACY
was organized on clean, unperverted, natural law,
with nothing arbitrary, artificial or man-made in its
structure, then an explanation of its activities would
be scientific.
The Old Capitalism has broken down, time after
time. This last time every part of the system has gone
haywire. These repeated breakdowns ending in com
plete collapse, proves that the system is not scientific.
We have never had, and we have not now, A
Science of Political Economy. That realm of human
activity is the realm of chaos and confusion. The
conditions that prevail in the realm of Political
Economy are similar to the conditions that prevailed
in Chemistry before Dalton discovered the Law of
Chemical Affinities or, in Astronomy, before Newton
discovered the Law of Gravitation.
There was no such thing as the Science of Chem
istry, before Dalton; and there was no such thing
as the Science of Astronomy, before Newton.
Dalton created nothing new in the realm of Chem
istry. He discovered and formulated the Law which
atoms obey in forming their combinations. The reve
lation of this law made Chemistry a science.
Newton created nothing new in the realm of As
tronomy. He discovered and formulated the Law
that the stars obey in their movements. The revela
tion of this law made Astronomy a science.
So the realm of Political Economy is the realm of
confusion and disorder, and has been for many cen
turies, and will continue to be a realm where chaos
reigns, until the central law that governs economic
forces is discovered and formulated.
This law has been discovered and
formulated in the System known as
THE POWER OF PLENTY 7
PLENOCRACY, or the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan.
Later on, in this discussion, we will reveal this
law, and make a full explanation of how it works.
Pursuing our inquiry, how did the Old Capitalism
come into being? What was the framework of its
philosophy, and how did it educate the public mind
to accept its ideas?
The Old Capitalism was not deliberately planned.
It grew up naturally; just as weeds grow up in the
garden. If you want to grow good plants and vege
tables, you must do some planning; you must pre
pare the soil and plant the seed and take care of
them; but weeds grow without any planning, prep
aration or care. So the Old Capitalism grew up
naturally, like weeds.
No one man, or set of men, can be singled out and
held responsible for its existence. It is the expression
of an unbridled individualism. It is the child of an
unenlightened self-interest.
Let us see how it grew up. In the 18th Century,
a new School of Thought arose. The advocates of
this new Thought System called themselves Physio
crats; the word comes from the Latin word "Phy-
sica", which means Natural Science. Their head
quarters were in France. The chief representative
of this School of Thought was Rousseau. He glorified
the Life of the Savage. He admired his freedom,
and advocated a return to the simple life as a cure
for the disorders of society. The slogan was "Back
to Nature." This School of Thought furnished some
powerful ideas, such as liberty, equality, fraternity,
self-determination, individual rights. These ideas
were directly opposed to the ideas that prevailed at
8 PLENOCRACY
that time, such as the Divine Right of Kings, and
the doctrine of authority. The rights of the indi
vidual abolished the Divine Right of Kings, and the
power of reason did away with authority.
Thomas Paine, Benjamin Franklin and the found
ers of the American Republic were in touch with
this School of Thought, and gathered their inspira
tion from its teachings. The central idea in this
system came, originally, from the great French
Philosopher, Descartes. The central thought in the
philosophy of Descartes was "Cogita ergo Sum."
"I think, therefore, I am." Here you have individual
ism. The main idea in this School of Thought was
that the individual had an inalienable right to do
as he pleased. The noble Savage did as he pleased.
Let us all be noble Savages.
When it came to business, or economics, these
Physiocrats coined the word "Laissez faire", which
means "Let every fellow do as he pleases." In the
matter of securing the Means of Life, the noble
Savage did as he pleased. He competed with other
noble Savages, to obtain the means of life, and the
strongest was the winner. So competition was intro
duced. The field of business became the arena of
strife and contention. It resented all interference
with its freedom and demanded that the Church and
State confine themselves to their own realms, and
leave it to do as it pleased. It was in this kind of a
thought atmosphere that the Old Capitalism was
born. As it grew older, it coined its own words, es
tablished its own rules, created its own Code of
Ethics and developed its own methods. It extended
its influence in every direction, its main object be
ing to obtain a monopoly of everything of material
THE POWER OF PLENTY 9
value, not knowing that, by so doing, it was planting
the seeds of death in its own body. It began to act
with vigor in England and other European countries.
Its great prophet in England was Adam Smith. He
invested it with the halo of sanctity. Later on,
Jevons followed Smith. He attempted to invest its
actions with the sacred sanction of science, by bas
ing it on mathematics. It is amusing to follow him
in his mental gymnastics. But the noble Science of
Mathematics refused to lend its approval to its
methods.
Then Karl Marx appeared on the scene. He seized
upon the doctrines of surplus values, wages, rent,
interest and tore the whole System of Capitalism
into shreds and organized a New System, known
as Socialism. Marx based his entire system on the
doctrine of Economic Determinism, which means
that everything in the History of Man, all his insti
tutions, his Religion, his Philosophy, his Poetry, his
Art, his Inventions, his Governments, his Economic
Systems are the natural outgrowth of the way he
produces goods for consumption and distribution.
The philosophy of Marx is raw materialism
throughout. There is no room in his system for the
exercise of Spiritual Forces. In the technique of his
system there is no room for personal initiative, or
individual incentive. There is considerable truth in
the philosophy of Marx; but its weakness lies in the
fact that it leaves out of consideration, powerful
Spiritual Factors, and the demands of the individual.
To save capitalism from the rough hands of Marx,
Herbert Spencer came to the rescue. He was an indi
vidualist, and he became its apostle and high priest
in its temple. He built up a ponderous system on the
10 PLENOCRACY
basis of its fallacies. He exercised all the powers of
his great intellect, to make it scientific, and failed.
The philosophy of the Noble Savage is, as I said be
fore, unbridled individualism.
The Old Capitalism has its roots in this idea.
Now we know that unbridled individualism tends
towards monopoly; whether it appears in an indi
vidual or a group of individuals, it always moves
towards a monopoly of the means of life for its owr
enrichment.
It grew lustily in England, and it reached out
across the Atlantic and tried to monopolize the busi
ness of the New Country. This attempt was the
cause of the Revolution. After the establishment of
the American Republic, this unbridled individualism
began to manifest itself amongst the colonists.
The Old Capitalism began its course early in the
history of the New Country. It girded up its loins
and started to get a strangle-hold on the resources
and business of the New Country. Here it found a
much wider field for the display of its powers than
it had in Europe. As Washington watched its move
ment, he said: "It is much to be lamented that each
state, long ere this, has not hunted down these
monopolists as the pests of society, and the greatest
enemies we have to the happiness of America."
Notice he calls them "pests"; that is infected per
sons that carry disease. He also calls them "the
greatest enemies of America." The history of mo
nopoly in America verifies his statements.
Thomas Jefferson said: "It's better to prohibit
monopolies in all things than to permit them in any."
When the founders of our government framed the
Constitution, and outlined the powers and preroga
THE POWER OF PLENTY 11
tives of the various departments of governmental
action, they had one purpose in view, and that was
to give the government, at all times, the power to
limit, restrict and regulate all forms of business
activity, so as to prevent monopoly. The central
principle of the American System was —"Equal
rights to all, and special privileges to none."
But the men who own the business of a country,
control every other institution in the country. They
become the masters, and the government becomes
their servant. As Emerson said: "Even the Presi
dent, himself, must eat dust, before the real masters
of the throne." Because of this, in spite of all the
laws that have been passed, forbidding combinations
and contracts, in restraint of trade; in spite of all
the Bureaus and Commissions organized to regulate
and keep the Old Capitalism within reasonable limits,
it has gone on towards its purpose, as if there was
no government in existence. I have said that un
bridled individualism always tends towards mono
poly.
What are the conditions today? According to
Henry W. Laidler, the President of The National
Bureau of Economic Research, eight companies
closely connected with the Railroads, own and con
trol 4/5ths of our unmined anthracite coal, and more
than l/3rd of our bituminous coal. The United
States Steel Corporation controls 3/4ths of the iron-
ore reserves, and 2/5ths of the steel making capaci
ty. Four companies control nearly one-half of our
copper reserves. 35% of the oil is produced by the
Standard Oil Company.
Gardner C. Means shows that 200 companies now
dominate the entire Industrial Field in America;
12 PLENOCRACY
these companies have 2000 Directors.
The latest Edition of Mr. Andrew Mellon's book
"Statistics of Income for 1929" shows that:—
6376 persons had net incomes of from
$100,000 to $150,000 per year or $770,536,-
000 for the group.
5310 persons had net incomes of from
$150,000 to $300,000 per year, or a total
net income for the group of $1,087,410,000.
1641 persons had net incomes of from
$300,000 to $500,000, or a total net income
for the group of $628,229,000.
976 persons had net incomes of from
$500,000 to $1,000,000, or a total of $669,-
878,000 for the group.
513 persons had net incomes of more than
$1,000,000 per year; the total for this group
was $1,212,099,000.
I have put these figures down, to show how uncon
trolled individualism tends to monopoly in the realm
of economics and, at the same time to so distribute
the social income that the few roll in an excess of
riches, while the many starve. These figures are
symptoms of a diseased condition. Wealth is the
life-blood of the Social Organism, and when it ac
cumulates in large quantities, in small sections of
the Social Body, it creates fevers, and the rest of
the body is impoverished for the want of it. Such a
condition, produces death.
The Old Capitalism received its
death-warrant in the crash of 1929.
It becomes its own executioner. We
must have a NEW DEAL.
This new deal does not mean a re-formation of
THE POWER OF PLENTY IS
the old system; to take the smashed parts of the old
system and put them together in a new shape, will
not solve our problems.
The new deal means a new, scientific, economic
system. We cannot expect that a new system will
flow from the diseased and darkened brain of the
old system. This would be against the Laws of Psy
chology. History does not record a single instance of
an old system reforming itself. The old system will
muster up all the vigor left in its dying body, in
opposition to the new system but the new system
based on facts and science will appear and will
triumph.
The Infinite Energy that lies back of all phenom
ena, and directs the forces of evolution, will toss the
smashed parts of the Old Capitalism into the dis
card, and prepare the way for the New System.
Now we know that a new system is not born full-
fledged, in a moment. It requires time. We need a
science which, when put into operation, will create
abundance for all. The sources of abundance are in
existence in Mother Earth.
The energy that is needed to utilize these Sources
of Abundance, already exists in the machines we
possess. We need men of trained intelligence, to
organize a scientific plan for the production and dis
tribution of this abundance; so that everybody will
have plenty. A step in this direction has been taken
by the Leaders of the new method called Tech
nocracy. As we state in the Chapter on Tech
nocracy, in this book, thirty-six eminent Engineers,
beginning in 1922, have spent ten years in a Nation
wide survey and research of the nation's business.
These men were not special pleaders. Like all true
u PLENOCRACY
Scientists, they stood out, completely detached, from
all influences that might affect their studies, or color
their conclusions. They wanted to find out the cause
of the complete breakdown of the present system.
They determined to make a Scientific Diagnosis of
the Economic Structure, to find the cause of the
breakdown. They studied 3,000 commodities in mo
tion, to find out how much machine delivered energy
was used in their production, and how much man
power was displaced by the machine. They wanted
to know why millions of men are out of work. They
wanted to know why millions starve amidst plenty.
They wanted to know why the Old System has ceased
to function. They claim that they have found the
cause.
They say that the main cause is
found in the fact that the machine has
produced a huge surplus of goods, and
pushed the workers, by the millions,
out into the streets. The machines can
not buy this surplus; they do not need
it. The idle millions need the surplus;
but they have no money to buy it. Not
being able to dispose of the surplus,
profits and dividends vanish. So the
energy delivered by the machine, in
the production of abundance, has de
stroyed the present Profit System.
They also claim that a complete change must be
made. The Old Capitalism, with its unbridled indi
vidualism, has destroyed itself, and its debris must
be shoveled away, to make room for a New System.
In a chapter elsewhere in this book, we enter
into a broader -discussion of the aims and conclu
THE POWER OF PLENTY 15
sions of Technocracy. Our purpose in this condensed
statement is to show that it is limited in its scope.
It deals with the energy delivered by the machine,
in the production of commodities within the limits
of the manufacturing industries. The field of agri
culture is not included in the survey and research.
Furthermore, it begins and ends with the energy
delivered by the machine; it does not enter into any
inquiry regarding the Source of this Energy, or the
Law of Its Operation.
The Technocrats do not claim that Technocracy
is the New Economic System. They do claim, how
ever, that it is a preparation for the New System.
The facts it has disclosed, and the conclusions ar
rived at will help to form the basis of a New System.
But, as we have stated before, Technocracy does not
enter into any inquiry as to the Source of the Energy
harnessed in the machine, or the Law of Its Opera
tion in the wider realms, outside of the range of
human manipulation and control.
The energy harnessed in the Machine is Solar
Energy; it comes from the SUN.
The Machines that deliver this energy are owned
and controlled by the Old Capitalism. This Old Sys
tem uses this Solar Energy to amass private profit
for the few.
When we consider the way that Solar Energy
works in the ranges beyond the reach of human
manipulation and control, we find that it does not
work for profit for the few. It works to create
abundance for all.
As the Great Seer, Jesus, said: "He maketh His
Sun to shine on the evil and the good, and his rain
to fall on the just and unjust."
16 PLENOCRACY
PLENOCRACY is The Science of Creating
Abundance for all, and it is based upon the way that
the Solar Energy works. The Sun delivers its energy
in almost unlimited quantities, to create abundance
for all. The Law of Solar Energy, in motion, is that
of use and service. PLENOCRACY, or the UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan, adds nothing to this law;
nor does it subtract anything from it. It is in per
fect alignment with it, and is so constructed that
the abundance of wealth created by the Sun flows
freely without obstruction, to all who wish to take
advantage of it.
PLENOCRACY is a combination of
two words: Plenus, which is the Latin
for plenty, and Kratos, which is the
Greek for Power. So the exact meaning
is The Power of Plenty.
A PLENOCRAT is an individual who believes in
plenty for himself, and plenty for everybody.
The Sun is now creating plenty for everybody;
but the Old Capitalism is interfering with its dis
tribution. Everybody believes in plenty for himself
and plenty for everybody; therefore, everybody is a
PLENOCRAT. When we have a million PLENO-
CRATS working with the Sun, and the Earth in the
UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, poverty will be abol
ished.
PLENOCRACY is based upon a high and lofty
plane, and the Central Law that it obeys is the Law
which the Sun, itself, obeys. At this point we want
to show that all the energy that man uses in his own
body, and all the energy that he uses in his machines,
comes from the Sun. It is, as we have said before,
Solar Energy.
18 PLENOCRACY
In order to make this clear and simple, we will
first present a picture of the Solar System, itself;
then we will show how this system was built, how
the Sun gave away part of itself to form the Planets,
and how the Sun stored away part of itself in the
vast coal beds, shale deposits, oil reservoirs and
natural gas tanks in the bosom of the earth, for
use and service to life.
We shall consider the service that the Sun renders
life now on the surface of the Earth. As we con
sider this part of our subject, we shall see that the
energy delivered by the Sun is expressed in terms of
service to all life, and not in terms of private profit
for the few.
At this point, we would suggest that the readers
of this book should secure, at the first opportunity,
that great book on "The Universe Around Us," writ
ten by the noted Astronomer, Sir James Jeans. A
careful study of this Book will assist the reader in
understanding what follows.
We know that when an inventor undertakes to
build a machine, he must build it in accordance with
the way the force works, which he is trying to har
ness. He cannot change the Law that the force
obeys. He cannot build any kind of a contraption,
and compel the force to flow through it.
In the case of the Steam Engine ; steam is the boss,
and the engine must comply with the way that steam
works.
In the case of the Electric Motor, electricity is
the boss, and the motor must comply with the way
electricity works.
Now, since all the energy that man
uses in producing commodities to sus
THE POWER OF PLENTY 19
tain his body, is Solar Energy, the
Economic System that he builds must
conform in every particular with the
way that this energy works.
Now, man cannot build up any kind of a contrap
tion, and compel the Solar Energy to flow through
it. It may work for a time; but sooner or later it
will be wrecked. The Solar Energy wrecks it, be
cause it violates its Law of Action. In other words,
the contraption tries to make the Solar Energy work
against the Law of its own nature and the Solar
Energy won't stand for this; so it smashes it.
The Old Capitalism is nothing more nor less than
a clumsy contraption; an attempt to compel the
Solar Energy to work in an unnatural way.
The Universal Creative Principle that flows
through the Sun, expresses itself in terms of use and
service to all; and it won't allow itself to be used
continually to amass private profit for the few.
For every machine that man has built, there is a
perfect model somewhere in Nature. It is the busi
ness of the Scientist to find that model, and then
construct his machine or system in accordance with
it.
The Solar System is a perfect model of an Eco
nomic. System ; built by the Universal Creative Prin
ciple, Eternal in the Heavens.
PLENOCRACY is an Economic System built on
this model.
The Solar System, in its present form, is a vast
machine with wheels within wheels. These wheels
are the orbits of the various planets that move
around the Sun. Each planet has its own individu
ality. The attractive power of the Sun holds them
20 PLENOCRACY
in their orbits, with a force equal to ropes of steel,
attached to every square inch of their surface. So
all are united to the Sun as a common center. Here
is unity. As these bodies spin in their orbits, each
planet sends out a note, which Plato called "The
Music of the Spheres."
In this is harmony. They all work together as they
spin on their axes and roll in their orbits. This is
co-operation. There is a perfect co-ordination be
tween them, and a perfect balance that prevents
disorder.
If Plato is right, then these planets arid the Sun,
as they spin on their axes and move in their orbits,
create their own music, and in their movements
they keep step with the melody of a grand symphony.
So in the Solar System we have in
dividuality, unity, co-operation, bal
ance, motion and harmony, and the
entire structure is a perfect economic
system, organized to create unlimited
abundance for all life.
This is PLENOCRACY, and the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan is a duplicate, in miniature, of this
Great System. It is the fulfillment of the Prayer:
"Thy will be done on earth, as it is in Heaven."
How was this beautiful System brought into ex
istence? As we study the theory advanced to account
for the Solar System, we can find the same principle
of use and service in operation. Sir James Jeans is
the author of the theory known as The Tidal Theory.
We know that the attraction of the Moon lifts the
waters of the ocean into tides, and when the Sun
co-operates with the Moon, the tides are much
greater.
THE POWER OF PLENTY 21
In accordance with this fact, Sir James Jeans says
in substance: —That the Sun, billions of years ago,
was a great globe of whirling, naming gasses.
Another great Star in the course of its revolution
approached the Sun, and by the pull of a powerful
attraction raised a tide at the Sun's Equator. As the
attraction increased, a long arm of matter, which
assumed the shape of a huge cigar, was pulled out
of the Sun for many millions of miles. The big Star
moved on in its orbit through space, and left the
cigar-shaped mass of matter and energy swinging
around the Sun, and attached to it. Within the limits
of this cigar-shaped body were a number of whirl
ing centres of energy, around which revolved masses
of matter; these masses of matter cooled down, as
they revolved, forming the planets.
This is only a theory; but it is the most plausible
of any that has been advanced, and Astronomers
think that it finds confirmation in the actual process
of system building that is now going on in space.
There are vast regions in space, where there is
no activity; in these regions, it is supposed that the
universal substance is in equilibrium. Astronomers
are supplied with powerful telescopes, which enables
them to penetrate into the depths of space and with
the present 100 inch telescope located on Mount
Wilson, they can see into space to a depth of 2,000,-
000 light years. A light year, is something that the
human mind can have no conception of.
Light travels at the rate of 186,300 miles per sec
ond; so a light year is the distance light can travel
in a year of 365 days. The human mind can have
no conception of this vast distance, and when this is
multiplied by 2,000,000 it is that much further be
22 PLENOCRACY
yond the reach of human conception.
Astronomers have counted 30,000 million stars in
the Galactic System, alone; but this system, as Sir
James Jeans says: "No more contains all the stars
in space, than one house contains all the inhabitants
in England."
Our purpose in presenting these considerations is,
to give the reader some conception of the vastness
of space, and the almost unlimited number of Suns
and systems that move in it.
As we look up into the skies on a clear night, we
can see no order in the stars; they seem to be scat
tered without any system. However, the Astrono
mers have shown that there is no disorder, anywhere.
Every star is in its proper place, and is related to
every other star. Every system is in its proper place,
and is related to every other system, and all is in
motion, and perfectly co-ordinated.
The Law discovered by the Immortal Newton,
carried out into the Universe, explains their move
ments and relationships. The same laws that govern
our Solar System, consisting of our Sun and its at
tending retinue of Planets and Satellites obtain in
every other System. So when we study our own Solar
System, we are studying the Universe.
The Sun, as we have seen in the process of creat
ing the Solar System, poured itself out into the
planets; so the planets and the earth are living parts
of the Sun, and vitally connected with it; and ever
since the planets and the earth were born out of the
living heart of the Sun, it has sustained them in life
and motion, by supplying them with living streams
of energy, in almost unlimited quantities, every sec
ond of time.
THE POWER OF PLENTY 23
This is PLENOCRACY, and this is service with
out hypocrisy ; service without any thought of profit.
Astronomers have studied the planets; they have
measured their orbits, computed their size and
weight, analyzed their chemical composition, theor
ized about their atmospheres and the kind of Life
that might exist upon them. But they do not know
anything about the nature of that Life. However,
in accordance with the Principle of Utility that
seems to be present in all parts of the known Uni
verse, each planet must perform some important
function in the system. Their existence would inti
mate that each one is a necessary part of the whole ;
in other words, an essential part in a balanced and
co-ordinated mechanism.
This brings us in our discussion, down to the
Earth. The Earth, as we have seen, is a living part
of the Sun. It was built, fitted out and furnished
by the Sun as a home for all forms of life, including
the human family.
Many years ago, when the Earth was young, be
fore life appeared, the Sun began the work of sup
plying the Earth with vast stores of its own energy,
in condensed form. It was very lavish in his good
ness. It created a warm atmosphere, filled with mois
ture, and poured its energy into rich tropical vege
tation and great forests of giant trees. This vege
tation and the forests grew and died; layer after
\ayer was formed ; then came a convulsion and these
layers were buried beneath tons of rock, and when
subjected to pressure and heat, became the coal beds.
Coal is condensed Solar Energy. In its lavishness,
the Sun, at the same time, poured his energy into
shallow lakes, causing myriads of small animalculse
PLENOCRACY
and shell fish to grow. They lived and died in vast
quantities; then came a convulsion, and buried the
bodies of these small forms of life beneath the
rocks; there they encountered heat and chemical ac
tion, and the vast reservoirs of petroleum were
formed, and rock tanks filled with Natural Gas, also
the vast beds of shale oil rock.
Oil is condensed Solar Energy, and so is Natural
Gas. Electricity, no matter how it is produced,
comes from the Sun.
If coal is used, then the Solar Energy condensed
in the coal was, by transmutation, converted into
an electric current.
If the power of falling water is used, we know
that the Sun lifted the water by evaporation, from
the ocean, and the winds guided by the Sun, carried
the clouds to the cold mountains; there it was con
densed into rain, and the rivers carried the water
that tumbles over the dam or falls, back to the sea.
So the power of the waterfall, converted into elec
tricity, was furnished by the Sun.
Now, we have seen that Solar Energy
expresses itself in terms of use and
service to all life. The Old Capitalism
has monopolized the Coal, the Oil, the
Shale and the Waterpower.
The Old Capitalism has monopolized the machine
and the Solar Energy it delivers in the production
of commodities, all for the benefit of the few. By its
misuse of this energy, the Old Capitalism has
wrecked itself.
PLENOCRACY is the Economic System that
falls into perfect alignment with the natural action
of the Solar Energy in motion.
THE POWER OF PLENTY 25
PLENOCRACY declares that no man, or set of
men, have the right to own and control for their
own selfish enrichment, the vast stores of condensed
Solar Energy that are in the earth.
The sketch that we have given, shows how the
Sun, in the past, has worked through millions of
ages to provide for life, by storing away in the
cellar of the earth, the coal, the oil and the gas.
In the ages preceding the coal age, the earth was
intensely hot. It was a body of chemicals and gas,
glowing with a heat far beyond anything that man
has any conception of. It was, in other words, a
big electrical furnace. In this furnace, the Sun trans
muted the chemicals into gold, silver, copper, iron,
lead and all other metals. These metals, just like the
coal and the oil, were made and deposited in the
mines by the Sun, for use and service to all.
The Old Capitalism has obtained control of these
treasures, and diverted them to private profit. The
Sun continues to render service to the earth and all
the other planets in the Solar System.
Sir James Jeans says: "That the Sun is burning
itself up, to sustain the planets and our earth." He
says: "That the Sun is losing weight at the rate of
four-million tons a second, or about 250 million
tons a minute, or 360,000 million tons a day."
This weight is given forth in waves of energy. The
energy is obtained by the annihilation of atoms in
the body of the Sun.
There is a great difference between combustion
and annihilation. Sir James Jeans says: "In the
ordinary combustion of a ton of coal, we are merely
skimming off the topmost cream of the energy con
tained in it, with the consequence that 99 9/10 per
26 PLENOCRACY
cent of the total weight remains in the form of
smoke, cinders and ashes. Annihilation leaves noth
ing behind; the combustion is so complete that
neither smoke, cinders or ash is left. The annihila
tion of a ton of coal releases 18,000 million times
more energy than that obtained from the mere com
bustion of the ton."
He says : "If we could so completely burn our coal
that no smoke, cinders or ashes were left, a single
pound of coal would keep the whole British Nation
going for a fortnight, domestic fires, trains, power-
stations, ships and all. A piece of coal smaller than
a pea would take the big steamer, the Mauretania,
across the Atlantic and back."
The Sun is an immense electrical furnace; the
heat of this furnace is so great that it is constantly
annihilating the atoms in the Sun's Body, releasing
almost unlimited quantities of energy.
This process has been going on for millions and
millions of years, and will continue for many mil
lions and millions of years to come. The Sun, ac
cording to T. R. Moulton, radiates 70,000 horse
power constantly, from every square yard of its sur
face. Our Earth receives only a small portion of this
energy; yet it amounts to 160,000 horsepower every
day, for every individual of the earth's population.
Here, again, you have service every second, with
out hypocrisy and without any thought of profit.
In the preceding pages, we have traced the opera
tions of the Solar Energy in the construction of the
planets and our earth. We have shown how it stored
up its own energy in the Coal Beds, in the Oil and
Gas Reservoirs. We have shown how this energy is
transmuted into electricity. We have shown how it
THE POWER OF PLENTY 27
created the metals and how immense waves of this
energy is coming from the Sun every second of time,
to supply the needs of the planets and the earth.
Our purpose in tracing the operations of Solar
Energy was to find out how it works, and we have
found out that it expresses itself always and every
where in terms of use and service to all life.
The Law of the Solar Energy is the Law on which
PLENOCRACY, or the UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan is built. This law is not man-made; it is not
artificial; it is not arbitrary; it is reality, and can
not be changed or repealed. It cannot be affected by
the adverse opinions of so-called political economists.
Its motion cannot be stopped by judicial decisions.
Its course cannot be altered by Presidents, Kings or
Congresses.
It is the Law of Infinite Energy, directed by In
finite Intelligence. It is The Universal Creative Prin
ciple in action.
The Old Economic System, based upon unbridled
individualism, is the cause of all our crimes, confu
sions and tribulations. This system is worldwide;
therefore, the disasters it creates are worldwide.
Solar Energy, as it operates at large and through
the machines, has created unlimited abundance; yet
millions in every nation starve amidst plenty. Why?
Because the Old System, based upon unbridled in
dividualism, greedy for profit and damned by a
thousand crimes, prevents distribution.
We declare, in the spirit of philosophic and scien
tific calmness that, if the nations continue to follow
the dictates of an unbridled individualism, they are
headed towards complete catastrophe; in fact, they
are on the edge of the precipice now.
28 PLENOCRACY
If, on the other hand, they will listen to the voice
of nature, and build their New Economic Systems
on the way that the Solar Energy works, all their
problems will be solved; in other words, when the
nations accept PLENOCRACY, they will find in its
philosophy, a Universal Solvent for all their diffi
culties.
In adopting PLENOCRACY, they are adopting
the plan of the Universal Creative Principle, which
is revealed in the way that Solar Energy works.
Solar Energy, as we have seen, works for the whole,
and not a part.
Unbridled individualism works for a part, and
neglects the whole. It is the Philosophy of Rosseau,
and he called it the Philosophy of the Noble Savage.
The record of its acts for the past 100 years is far
from being noble. Greedy individualism, whether it
is expressed through the single individual, or
through the corporation that represents a group of
greedy individuals; works at all times for its own
interests. It cannot see beyond the limits of its own
selfishness. It does not see that all life is related and
inter-dependent; that separation is abhorrent to the
Laws of Nature, and against the interests of the
whole.
The Law of Greed refuses to recognize the Law
of Relativity. Its motto is: "Every man for himself,
and the devil take the hindmost." "Do the other
fellow, and do him first; or he will do you." This is
the Law of the Jungle, and by obeying it, we have
turned the world into a jungle. This spirit has
divided the population of the world into self-seeking
groups; National Groups and Groups within the
Nations. Universal suspicion, fear, chaos, disorder,
THE POWER OF PLENTY 29
confusion and disaster is the natural result of such
a condition.
PLENOCRACY has shown us the perfect model
of a political and economic plan in the Solar Sys
tem. A system that works for the whole, and not a
part. A system that is inter-dependent in all its
parts, a system of harmonious relationships.
The Solar Energy that flows through this model,
furnishes unlimited abundance for all life. The law
which this energy obeys is the Laiv of Use and
Service.
If the leaders in the various groups would throw
aside the old destructive idea, which is loaded with
the seeds of disaster, and accept the principles and
Law of the Perfect Model, harmony would prevail
everywhere. Why?
Because every Nation and Group would be work
ing in full co-operation with the Universal Creative
Principle that pervades the Universe.
Suspicion would vanish,
Fear would pass away,
Jealousy would have no soil wherein to grow,
because all groups would be working in harmony
with the same Eternal Law and universal peace
would reign everywhere amongst men.
The present League of Nations is powerless to
accomplish anything in adjusting disputes amongst
Nations, so long as the present system, based upon
unbridled individualism is enthroned in the thought-
centers of the leaders of the Nations.
Five-hundred leading Scientists, Engineers and
Industrial Experts were appointed by President
Hoover in 1929 to make a survey of the conditions
in America. They were instructed to engage in a
so PLENOCRACY
Fact-Finding Survey. The report is called "The Yes
terday, Today and Tomorrow of America." Amongst
its major findings are:
First—"Social inventions keep too far behind
mechanical Inventions." By this they mean that
our economic and social order needs reconstruc
tion, so as to keep pace with the energy deliv
ered by the machine.
Second —"Unless Social Invention is speeded up,
or mechanical invention slowed down, grave
mal-adjustments are bound to occur. Economic
planning is society's great need;" in other
words, these experts intimate that we must
have a New Economic System.
Third—"A policy is needed to bring together all
the disjointed factors in social life, so that
Labor, Industry, Government, Education, Reli
gion and Science may travel along the same
path with equal speed." They admit that our
institutions are not co-ordinated; that they are
lying around in disjointed fragments. How
could it be otherwise, when they are ruled by
the divisive and disruptive principle of an un
bridled individualism.
If there is one institution that ought to stand as
a unit, it is the Church; the philosophy of Jesus de
mands it; but it is split up into numerous sects;
each sect loudly proclaiming its superiority over all
the others. What is needed to bring these disjointed
fragments into a co-ordinated whole .is A Central
Principle, and flowing from this, A Law of Action
that is in perfect harmony with the highest ideals.
This Central Principle and Law of Action is not
furnished by the Old Capitalism.
THE POWER OF PLENTY 31
PLENOCRACY does furnish it.
That principle is Universal and Crea
tive, and its Law of Action, as we
have shown, is use and service.
With regard to the New Economic Plan, which
must come, these experts say: "To gloss over the
difficulties is no service to mankind. As the task
of planning economic relations is faced in detail, it
is not unlikely that modest schemes will be devised
that will make the present organization work more
steadily. It is more in line with past experience to
anticipate a long line of cumulative improvements,
which will gradually transform the existing eco
nomic organization into something different than to
anticipate a sudden revolution in our institutions."
In this statement, there is a direct confession that
the present Old Capitalism has failed. There is also
an admission that attempts will be made to patch
it up. There is also the declaration that the Old Sys
tem will be made new by the gradual addition of
new parts, and that this gradual transformation is
better than a sudden revolution. This report, to
gether with the report of Technocracy, lends confir
mation to the conclusions arrived at in this book.
Where are our Industrial and Political Leaders
going to find a model more perfect than that fur
nished by the Universal Creative Principle in the
Solar System? They must adopt that, or continue to
go along stumbling in the dark, as they have been
doing for centuries.
The Sun co-operating with the Earth, furnishes us
the means of life in unlimited abundance. It also
furnishes us our Time System. We have accepted
our Time System from the movements of the Heav
32 PLENOCRACY
enly Bodies. _ Why should we refuse to accept our
Economic System from the same source? The move
ments of the same bodies supply us with time and
the means of life, both in abundance.
What is time? If there was no space, there could
be no time. The earth revolving on its axis, in space,
and traveling through space as it moves around the
Sun, creates that thing known as time. So time must
be, in a sense, measured space. Time, then, is space.
Man must have space, and he must have time.
Time regulates everything in the life of man. His
affirmations or denials do not and cannot change this
arrangement. His birth, his childhood, his growth
into his manhood, his maturity, his old age and
death are subject to the regulations of time.
Eight hours for sleep, eight hours for toil and
eight hours for recreation, fill up the measure of
the day of twenty-four hours. The revolution of the
earth upon its axis measures off 1,000 miles every
hour, creating day and night. A day and night in
cludes one revolution in 24 hours. Our watches and
clocks are regulated by the revolutions of the earth
on its axis.
Besides this, the movement of the Earth around
the Sun, gives us that portion of measured space
called the year. It also gives us the Seasons of the
year; Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter. The
arrangement, whereby the Seasons come and go in
regular succession, is a marvelous piece of mechan
ism. It is the result of the slanting position of the
Earth's axis working with the magnetic grip of the
Polar Star holding the North Pole of the Earth's
axis in a fairly steady position. The slant of the
axis creates an angle of 231/2 Degrees to the plane of
THE POWER OF PLENTY 33
the Earth's orbit. If the axis of the Earth were
perpendicular to its orbit, there would be no seasons.
The regions around the Equator would be burned
up with an excess of heat, and the North and South
Hemispheres of the earth would suffer. But this
angle, together with the hold that the Polar Star
exercises on the North Pole of the Earth, brings
about the Seasons. As the Earth moves in its annual
journey around the Sun, the Seasons come and go
in perfect accord with time. The Springtime, when
Mother Earth awakens from her winter sleep, and
adorns herself with beauty and new life. The Sum
mer, when the crops mature. The Autumn when
they ripen and are harvested, and the Winter when
Mother Earth sleeps, to gather strength for another
period of activity.
The power that causes the Earth to move on its
fixed axis, and around the Sun, is the energy that
flows from the Sun.
So then; we are directly dependent upon Solar
Energy for our time, our day and night and the sea
sons of the year.
The Universal Creative Principle, as it manifests
itself through the flow of Solar Energy, furnishes
us time in abundance. Time is furnished without
cost.
The Old Capitalism has perverted time itself in
its attempt to pile up private profit in the contracts
that it makes for the purchase of property or goods
on the installment plan, it specifies a time when the
payments are to be made. If the purchaser through
misfortune or otherwise, cannot pay at the time
specified, he stands to lose all his payments and the
property also.
PLENOCRACY
P'urthermore ; the Old Capitalism has invented
interest, which is the rent paid for the time-use of
money. In doing this, it has corrupted time itself, in
order to amass private profit. Solar Energy sends
a stream of wealth through the channels of time to
man, without any interest charge, whatsoever. The
charging of interest for the use of money is a fla
grant violation of the Law of the Solar Energy, and
the penalty hangs as a crushing burden upon the
shoulders of humanity.
Simple interest is bad; but compound interest,
which is another invention of the Old Capitalism, is
worse. It compounds the crime, and compounds the
penalty for the crime. Elliot, in his Book on Usury,
page 182, says: "One cent loaned January 1st A.D.,
year one, drawing interest at the rate of six per
cent, compounded annually, on January 1st, 1895,
would amount to—
"$8,497,840,000 Decillion Dollars; and to pay this
in gold, 23-2/10 grains to the dollar, using it in
spheres of pure gold the size of the earth, it would
take 610,070,000,000,000 spheres of gold to pay the
debt."
The entire world is sinking in a quagmire of debt,
forced down by the heavy burden of interest placed
on its shoulders by the Old Capitalism.
PLENOCRACY being in line with the Law of
Solar Energy in action, eliminates interest from all
its transactions.
This Chapter deals with Solar Energy and the
way it works. The way it works is the Law of its
nature.
We have shown that it expresses itself in abun
dance for all life, and its Law of Action is use and
THE POWER OF PLENTY 35
service. It is on this principle and law that PLEN-
OCRACY is based.
Those who deny the conclusions that we have ar
rived at in this discussion, are using up Solar Energy
in their act of denial. Apart from Solar Energy,
there could be no expression of life, in any form,
on the physical plane.
Solar Energy, in itself, is not life ; but it furnishes
the conditions of life, in all stages of its development.
The food substances that we eat to sustain life
are, in every instance, condensed Solar Energy.
The Solar Energy that lies packed in the food
substances we eat, is disintegrated by chemical ac
tion in the intestines, and the Solar Energy is re
leased, to be used in life's activities; so those who
deny the conclusions arrived at in this discussion, in
regard to Solar Energy and the Law of its Action,
are using up Solar Energy in the exertion required
in the denial.
Surely, no man is stupid enough to
call upon the thing he denies for
strength to enable him to deny that
it exists.
Chapter Two
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK?
'"pHE question that naturally arises in connection
■*-
with any new machine or system is, "Will it
work?" If it works, then it is a good thing. If it
does not work, then it is no good, and it would be a
waste of time to fool with it.
It is our purpose in this chapter to answer this
question, by showing how the principles of PLEN
OCRACY operate in the universe beyond the Solar
System, in the Solar System and what effect it
would have, if it was in full operation as an eco
nomic system amongst men; but before we enter
into this discussion, we wish to show the wide dif
ference there is between the Old Capitalism and
PLENOCRACY, by a comparison of the words em
ployed in each system.
Words are ideas with their clothes on. Words re
veal the real inward character of the individual
group or Nation that uses them. For instance; we
have the underworld or gangsters; this world has
its own language, such as: —
"Taking him for a ride"
"Giving him the works"
"Muscling in"
"Ten Grand"
"Oh Yeah"
"Scram"
"Ask the Moll", etc.
In fact the underworld has created a language of its
own, which is descriptive of its spirit and methods.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 37
Feudalism was an age in history, and words were
used descriptive of that age which have no meaning
for us now. To understand these words, they must
be examined in the light of that age. For instance,
some of these words were Lord, Serf, Feud, Retainer,
Knight, Crusader, Troubadour, Fief, etc. These
words had a meaning in the age of Feudalism which
were descriptive of that age. When it passed away,
the meaning of the words passed away with it. The
words still exist; but to understand their meaning
we must set them up within the frame of Feudalism.
The American and French Revolutions introduced
a whole host of new words such as Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity, Republic, Democracy, Self determina
tion, Election, Voting, Politician, Senate, Congress,
Legislature, President, Log rolling, Graft, etc. These
words were mostly political because these movements
were political, and they were descriptive of the new
political system that was introduced.
The Old Capitalism that took the place of Feudal
ism was ushered in by the use of new words. These
words multiplied as the system grew. The words
descriptive of this system were Machine, Corpora
tion, Stocks, Preferred Stocks, Common Stocks,
Bonds, Holding Company, Pyramiding, Promoter,
High Pressure, The Psychological Moment, Exploita
tion, Dividends, Wages, Profit, Contract, The Ground
Floor, Nailing to the Cross, The Dotted Line, Inter
est, Margins, Bulls, Bears, Lambs, The Market, In
flation, Deflation, Broker, Conference, Commission,
etc. As we have stated, these words were descriptive
of the spirit and method of this system.
The words of the Old Capitalism cannot be used
in PLENOCRACY. They do not fit. They are en
S8 PLENOCRACY
tirely foreign to its spirit and purpose. This system
has a new vocabulary, which is descriptive of its
spirit and purpose. Some of the words we use are
Unity, Co-operation, Fellowship, Harmony, Service,
Use, The Earth, Solar Energy, Wealth, Natural
Law, Science, Reality, Right Relationships, Balance,
Enlightened, Self Interest, Natural Increase, Law
of Averages, Abundance, Economic Justice, etc.
These words reveal the Soul of the Science, and are
descriptive of its motive and method.
The words employed show the far-reaching dif
ference between the two systems. Oil and water will
mix quicker than they will. Therefore it will be
clearly seen by the intelligent thinker that the man
who has been bathed in the thought atmosphere of
the Old Capitalism, and whose thought and speech
centers are filled with the ideas and words of the
Old System, cannot grasp the meaning of PLENOC
RACY. He must engage in the process of a thorough
house-cleaning, before he can understand it. He must
remove the old thoughts and words from his mind
that are descriptive of the Old System, and replace
them with the thoughts and words of the New Sys
tem. This requires time and study.
To get a thorough understanding of PLENOC
RACY, he must read this book, and as he reads he
must lay aside all his preconceived ideas. He must
allow his reason and common sense to guide him.
"Some books," says Bacon, " are to be tasted; others
are to be chewed ; while others are to be chewed and
digested." This book must be chewed and digested,
to get its full benefits.
PLENOCRACY, as we have already stated, is the
Science of Creating Abundance for All. It is also
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 39
an Art. Science is to know. Art is to do. The Science
is the philosophy. The Art is the technique or the
plan of action.
We have already explained the philosophy. In that
explanation we have stated that PLENOCRACY is
based upon the way that Solar Energy works, and
we have shown that Solar Energy expresses itself
in terms of use and service.
We have stated that we have in the Solar System,
where the earth co-operates with the Sun and the
other planets, the perfect model of an economic sys
tem, and any system set up by man that is in perfect
alignment with this system and the Law of its Ac
tion, will create abundance for all. This claim im
plies that man must fall into line with nature. Up
to the present, he has been going contrary to nature,
and the penalty for his disobedience has been im
posed upon him time after time. A prominent writer
has stated that "Science and Christianity are at one
in abhorring the natural man, and calling upon the
civilized man to fight and subdue him. The conquest
of nature, not the imitation of nature, is the whole
duty of man."
St. Augustine and Huxley are in agreement as to
the eternal conflict between man and nature. In his
Romanes lecture on 'Evolution and Ethics,' Huxley
said: "The ethical process of society depends not on
imitating the cosmic process; still less on running
away from it ; but on combating it," and again, "The
history of civilization details the steps by which man
has succeeded in building up an artificial world
within the cosmos."
I put this quotation down to show you what illogi
cal conclusions some Scientists can come to. The
■40 PLENOCRACY
civilized man possesses the same instincts as the
natural man. He cannot destroy these instincts, and
if he attempts to suppress them they will destroy
him. The only thing he can do, and that with im
mense benefit to himself, is to transmute these in
stincts into higher forms of expression. If a man
enters into a conflict with nature, nature defeats
him. Man conquers nature by adjusting himself to
the way nature works.
The ethical process of society, and the ethical ad
vancement of society is not the result of combating
nature, it is the result of transmuting the natural
tendencies of nature in higher forms of expression.
It may be true that the History of Civilization shows
man building up an artificial world within the
cosmos. If that world is in harmony with the struc
ture of the cosmos and the law of the forces that
flow through it, then such a structure will endure;
but, on the other hand, if it is purely artificial and
has no vital connection with the cosmos, it will
tumble into ruins sooner or later.
We are witnessing this in the collapse of the Old
Capitalism in every capitalistic country of the world.
Such a system is purely artificial; having no vital
connection with the living cosmos, it could not endure.
No chemist can change the Law of Atomic Affin
ity. He can fall in line with this law, and by obeying
it he can create new combinations.
No mathematician can change the Law of Num
bers. He can fall in line with the law and create
addition, multiplication, subtraction, division, frac
tions, etc.
So-called Scientists talk loudly and learnedly about
the conflict between man and nature. The conflict is
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 41
not between man and nature. The conflict is between
the fictions that man has built up in regard to the
phenomena of nature and man. So the conflict is
not between man and nature; it is the conflict be
tween man and the creations of his own ignorance,
suspicion, fear and stupidity. These creations do
not exist in nature; they have no roots in reality.
So man invests these false creations with life from
himself, looks upon them as truth and then wears
himself out fighting them. From this angle alone,
history becomes the story of man's conflict with
these false creations.
I would suggest that the reader of this book, read
the chapter on "The Grand Illusion" carefully.
There he will find that human advance is the result
of the destruction of these false creations. When
these false creations were swept away man discov
ered, to his astonishment and delight, that nature
was his friend.
If you want to read a graphic and satirical de
scription of man fighting his own false creations, get
the book called Don Quixote, written by the famous
Spanish writer, Cervantes. Don Quixote, the hero,
imagines that he is a great Knight. He panoplies
himself in armor, and armed with sword and battle
axe, he mounts a donkey and imagines that he is
seated on a war charger. He starts out on the war
path. The story of his conflicts with imaginary
enemies is written in a masterly way. It was written
to bring the Knighthood of the times into ridicule;
but it is also a graphic and ridiculous picture of
swash buckling man, seated on the donkey of his
own conceits, imagining that he is in conflict with
nature, when he is only fighting the false creations
PLENOCRACY
of his own ignorance, suspicion and fear.
Man, himself, is a living part of nature. He is
wrapped up in nature's atmosphere. His blood is
purified by the oxygen that he drinks in with every
breath. The energy that he uses up in his thinking
and activities is Solar Energy, and this is furnished
him in the disintegration of the food substances that
he consumes three times a day. He is born out of
the womb of nature. He lives during his life on her
bounties and, at death, she receives him into her
bosom.
As we have shown in the chapter on PLENOC
RACY, nature has fitted up this earth as man's
home. She has invested man with mental powers,
and made him her associate in conducting the af
fairs of this planet. She wants him to work with
her. She is always ready to do her part in assisting
him to create abundance for himself and all life;
but he has separated from his good and gracious
partner. He has built up a whole series of false pic
tures of his best friend. Out of these outrageous fic
tions he has built false world after false world ; only
to see them tumble into ruins around him.
PLENOCRACY is the science that calls man back
to reality and sanity. It is a revelation of nature's
plan and program for humanity. It starts at the
source of energy as it flows through the sun, and
shows him this energy creates abundance for all.
This part of the subject is thoroughly covered in
the chapter on the Philosophy of PLENOCRACY;
but for the purpose of emphasis in this chapter, we
may touch on some of its philosophic aspects.
The questions for us to consider now is, "Will it
work?" We know that it does work in the Universe;
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 43
but we want to show that it will work, if man will
organize his economic life in accordance with it.
It will also have a decided beneficial effect on his
religion, government, education, law and literature.
It is not our intention to discuss its effect upon these
institutions at this time.
PLENOCRACY, primarily, is economic; it is the
science and art of creating abundance for all. So in
the present discussion we will apply its principles
and law of action in the field of economics.
Now to begin with, we cannot hope that PLEN
OCRACY will be introduced and put into operation
by the defenders of the Old Capitalism. Such a thing
would be psychologically impossible. They will cling
to the wreck and, animated by a false sense of
pride, they will go down with the sinking ship rather
than take the life-boat. Neither can we hope to have
PLENOCRACY introduced and put into operation
by government. The men who were elected to seats
of power and authority in the government, having
been brought up in the thought atmosphere of the
Old Capitalism, are still controlled by its philosophy ;
besides, it is outside the province of government to
introduce an economic system. One of the functions
of government is to regulate and control the eco
nomic system in the interests of the public welfare.
Organized government could be friendly towards a
new movement; but organized government is pro
verbially reactionary.
We have considered the Old Capitalism in this
book from many different viewpoints, and the pic
ture it presents is far from being satisfactory. Why?
Because it is a perversion of natural law. We have
seen that this old system —
PLENOCRACY
was born out of the womb of an un
bridled individualism. It was organized
for private profit and not for service.
Its aim is to obtain a monopoly of the
means of life,
and it has about accomplished its purpose, with
disastrous consequences to itself and the rest of the
world.
The factors used were land, labor, capital, man
agement and ownership.
Out of the products, land received rent; labor,
wages; capital, interest; management, salary; and
ownership, profits.
Since the desire for profits was the supreme driv
ing power in this system, all things were made sub
servient thereto. The needs of human beings, their
misfortunes, their sickness, their accidents, their
fears and their dilemmas were all unscrupulously
used to amass more profit for the few. All this is a
natural result, because this system is rooted in the
soil of selfish individualism.
PLENOCRACY, as we have shown, is directly
opposed to this old system in all its parts. There is
no identity between them anywhere. The base, the
superstructure and the capstone of both systems are
composed of thought materials as different as day
is from night.
In a conversation with two very intelligent men
the other day, in regard to the depression and the
nature of the system that produced it, the following
questions were asked:
Do you believe in the doctrine of
plenty for all?
Both answered, we do.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK?
Do you believe that we may have in
the solar system a perfect arrange
ment through the Earth co-operating
with the Sun and the other planets,
creating a stream of abundance for all?
Both answered, after a pause, we do.
Do you believe that it is within the
range of possibility to organize an
economic system on this earth; a mini
ature, in other words, of the perfect
model in the heavens?
The answer was, Yes.
During man's sojourn on this planet,
was there ever such a system organ
ized?
No, was the answer, but Sir Thomas
More, in his Utopia; and Plato in his
Republic, dreamed of ideal systems;
but these were merely dreams. History
furnishes no record of the actual
organization of such a system.
Is there enough creative intelligence
amongst men to-day to organize such
a system; in other words, have we the
brains and equipment to accomplish
such a task?
Both men answered, we have.
Was this economic arrangement in
the solar system organized for private
profit, to be handed to the forces that
organized it?
Both men said, No.
What was this system organized for?
One of the men answered: It was
PLENOCRACY
organized for use and service, and to
supply abundance for all life.
If such a system was set up amongst
us, what would be the result?
The answer was: All our problems
would be solved automatically.
What then is the most important
question that confronts us as a nation?
Both men studied for a few moments;
then one of them spoke up and said:
The most important thing to do would
be to organize such a system, and put
it into operation immediately.
Then we said : "Such a system has been formulated,
its philosophy expounded and its technique perfected
in PLENOCRACY, which is in perfect alignment
with the model furnished in the solar system." One
of the gentlemen then said: "A system such as this
ought to be published in book-form and distributed
widely, and a copy of the book ought to be in the
hands of all the leaders in the political and industrial
world. They are now wandering in the dark, not
knowing what to do."
The answers that these gentlemen gave to the
series of questions asked show the trend of human
thinking on economics.
Professor Robert A. Milliken, the noted Scientist,
says: "The job before us is this—to see to it that
the radiant heat produced and coming from the Sun
to us, is utilized to the fullest possible extent, to
make this world a better one for man to live in, in
the future, than it has ever been in the past."
We have seen that the Old Capitalism was based
on a narrow, selfish, unenlightened, unbridled indi
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? W
vidualism.
To find a basis for the Science of PLENOCRACY,
we have gone to the source of all things; we have
looked through the eyes of the Scientific Astronomer
as he used his powerful telescope, penetrating the
vast regions of space. With him, we have watched
with wonder, the play of infinite energy as it engaged
in the amazing work of building Suns and Systems.
As time passed on, we have watched with him,
the Solar Energy in the Sun, as it poured itself out
in a creative mass, from which was born the planets
in our Solar System. With him as our guide, we
have sketched the history of how this same Solar
Energy flowing from the Sun fitted out our earth
as the home of life. We have shown how the miner
als were placed in the mines ; how the coal-beds, both
anthracite and bituminous, the petroleum reservoirs,
the vast tanks of natural gas, the shale beds, all con
densed Solar Energy was formed.
We have shown how this same Sun has continued to
serve the life forms on the earth by pouring forth
vast volumes of its own energy upon the earth, fur
nishing each year nuts and fruits of all kinds, vast
harvests of cereals, root crops and vegetables in
almost unlimited quantities. An ever-flowing stream
of abundance for all life. All the arrangements and
movements of this amazingly beautiful system are
ranged in line with the Law of Use and Service. The
continuous result is a stream of abundance of raw
materials and finished commodities for the use of
all forms of life on this earth.
In the Universe, on a large scale, and in the Solar
System, on a smaller scale, we have PLENOCRACY
in magnificent action. Nature repeats herself in all
PLENOCRACY
her parts. Scientists tell us that the atom is a per
fect solar system ; so the plan in the atom is carried
up and appears in all the systems within systems, in
the vast totality of the immeasurable universe, itself.
Surely, anybody will admit that it would be the
acme of the highest sanity for man to organize his
economic system on such a basis, and the nadir of
the rankest stupidity to organize it on any other
basis.
In the vast regions of the Universe, where
PLENOCRACY is in action on a big scale, we have
discovered certain great factors, space, time, energy
and life or intelligence.
Energy directed by Intelligence, operating in space,
through time, creates a continuous succession of
movements or events, all interlinked and co-related
to each other, forming the universe; the outcome of
this, so far as our earth is concerned, is the creation
of this stream of abundance for all forms of life.
This process is still going on. The universe is a
"going concern", and it will continue to go through
the coming eternity of time as it has been going
through the past eternity of time, and as we have
said before, we repeat it again—that the highest act
of sanity on man's part would be to model his life
and his system on the way that the universe works
—in other words ; the law of its action, which is the
law of use and service. The universe at large, and
the Solar System on a smaller plan, pours through
the channels of time, a stream of abundance for all.
The English word energy is derived from the
Latin term "Energia" which in turn was derived
from two Greek terms meaning "in" and "work" re
spectively. Energy is an in-force, an in-power, an
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 49
in-strength. It is in things, works in them and from
within them. It is impossible to think of energy ex
cept as coming from within a mass.
This actuating energy is an all-comprehensive
principle, including within itself all forms, kinds,
classes and degrees of energy, power, force and
strength; electrical, physical, mental or spiritual in
the universe. It is this actuating energy that is the
efficient cause of all forms of existence ; of all events
and happenings in the universe. It is the Causative
Power working in and upon all things, and expresses
itself in constant creation, constant evolution, con
stant change and constant becoming. It is in all its
movements directed by intelligence or life.
So this energy directed by intelligence, causes the
universe to move, to pass onwards and forward in
space, through time, in regularity of sequence and
orderly trend. Its activities constitute a procession
of events. Like a great river, its movements carry
it ever onward; the river is always there; but the
same place never is the scene of the passage of the
same drops of water, for even two consecutive sec
onds of time. New drops of water replace those
that have passed onward and forward.
Sir Edwin Arnold, in his great poem "The Light
of Asia", has pictured this stream of creation pro
ceeding from and moved by Infinite Energy through
the channels of time, cut out of space, in the follow
ing beautiful lines:
"And cause and Sequence and Course of Time,
And Beings ceaseless tide,
Which ever changing runs, linked like a river
By ripples following ripples fast or slow,
The same, yet not the same, from far off fountains,
50 PLENOCRACY
To where its waters flow into the sea.
These steaming to the sun
Give the lost wavelets back 'in cloudy fleece,
To trickle down the hills and glide again,
Having no pause or place."
Now we have arrived at certain definite practical
conclusions. In the universe, at large, we have
Space, Time, Energy and Intelligence. The universe,
at large, was brought into manifestation by energy,
directed by intelligence working in space, through
time. All these factors were essential in the creation
of the universe at large.
The intelligence that thought out the plan of the
universe, had to have space for the theatre of its
operations.
It had to have energy. As far as we know, intelli
gence within itself has no energy. It directs energy.
It had to have time or duration. Time is meas
ured space. Without time, which is extended space,
nothing could come into manifestation.
Since nature repeats herself in all her parts, we
have a duplicate of the universe, at large, on a
smaller scale in the solar system, where the same
factors of space, time, energy and intelligence are
present.
This brings us down to the earth, the theatre of
man's operations, and we find the same factors in
existence. We have space, time, energy and intelli
gence.
The Universal Creative Power has set aside a
small section of the vast domain of the universe,
and placed man in charge. This small section is this
good earth. As we have said, the same beneficent
power has given man on this earth space, time.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 51
energy and intelligence, and it is his duty and privi
lege to employ these factors in constructing a sys
tem of living that will create abundance for all.
As we have shown in the chapter in the Philosophy
of PLENOCRACY, the same beneficent power has
furnished man with a perfect model in the Solar
System to guide him in the construction of such a
system.
For many weary centuries, man in his ignorance
did not know of the existence of these factors;
neither did he have any conception of the existence
of the perfect model. Wandering in the dark and
dismal swamp of his own ignorance, man's history
is largely a history of continued crime, fear, sus
picion, misery and despair. Ignorance of the law,
however, excuses no one. The penalty was imposed
just the same.
The conditions have changed. Creative intelligence
has poured a flood of light upon the world. As we
have said in the book on "The Science of Master
ship", page 37, "There is enough creative knowledge
now in existence to reconstruct the world of men
and women, and produce the supernation."
A flood of accurate knowledge of the universe and
man's relationship thereto, has been poured into the
world through the sciences. However, this knowl
edge is not in use. We are trying to solve modern
problems, by using the ignorance of past centuries.
We have a great continent here in America;
stretching from the Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, and
from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Magnificent space
open to the energizing rays of the Sun. This space
or land will produce all kinds of crops in vast abun
dance. Beneath the surface are vast deposits of con
52 PLENOCRACY
densed Solar Energy.
We have time divided up into seasons. Springtime,
the season of abundant young life, Summertime, the
season of growth, Autumntime, when the crops are
harvested and Wintertime, when nature rests in
sleep, to begin again her work of creation the fol
lowing year.
We have energy. The Solar Energy harnessed in
the machine is equal to the power of one-thousand
million horses.
We are supposed to have intelligence to direct this
energy in space or land, so as to pour out through
the channels of time, a stream of abundance for all.
Have we utilized these equipments to create a
commonwealth of abundance for all? We have cre
ated abundance for the few, while millions starve.
What is the cause? There is only one cause. It is
stupid to single out symptoms and consider them
causes. They are the effects. War indemnities and
their repudiation. The burden of taxation and the
revolt against it. Bank failures, frenzied finance,
the crash of 1929, the explosion that blew back into
nothingness billions of fancied wealth, which did not
exist to begin with. The breakdown of the credit
system. The introduction of the machine that pushed
millions of workers out into the streets. The farmers
paralyzed under a crushing load of debt. The de
struction of the purchasing power of the farmers and
the workers. The increase in crime and the growth
and power of the underworld. The loss of confidence,
the universal prevalence of suspicion and fear and
the loss of courage and hope. All these things, and
many more, are not causes; they are merely symp
toms of an unnatural, artificial, man-made economic
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 53
system. They are the symptoms of the disease that
affects every part of a society that has been innocu-
lated with the poison of a narrow, greedy, unbridled
individualism. We have never been in step with the
Program of the Universe.
As we have shown, the Universal Creative Prin
ciple has brought the universe into existence, which
includes the Solar System, the earth and man, him
self. This Universal Creative Principle works for
the whole and not a part ; works to create abundance
for all and not a few ; works in accordance with the
Law of Use and Service and not for profit.
The cause of all our present and
past miseries is found in the fact that
the dark clouds of our ignorance have
blotted out the knowledge of our union
with this universal power.
In reality, we cannot sever our connection, irre
spective of our denials or our affirmations. We are
always in this power. We are bathed in
it,
just as
we are bathed in the atmosphere. If we do not know
this, we lose all the valuable benefits that flow from
a
full knowledge of this great fact.
Insofar as this Universal Power
is
concerned, we
are like
a
group of foreigners who have just landed
in New York. As they walk down Broadway, they
are bathed in the atmosphere of
a
new country;
they hear language that they do not understand;
they see signs that have no meaning to them. To
obtain the benefits of the language and the new en
vironments, these foreigners must become conscious
of what
it
is
all about.
So
it
is
with us, in reference to this Universal
Creative Principle and the great Universe in which
PLENOCRACY
we live. We do not know the meaning of the majes
tic scenes that surround us. We have no compre
hension of the nature of the energy that is in con
stant motion around us. The Universe speaks to us
in a thousand ways; but we cannot understand the
language.
Just as the drop in the ocean is a part of the
ocean, so each one of us is a living cell in the great
Ocean of Being, related to every other part of the
universe.
The word universe means, turning into one. The
universe is one vast organism with an uncountable
number of parts. We are living parts of this vast
organism, and the Universal Creative Principle per
vades every part, and combines the vast structure
into unity. Humanity does not know this. Without
the knowledge of this Central Unifying Power, we
have' separated into warring groups. "It is dog eat
dog." Every fellow is afraid that the other fellow
will get the advantage of him. Every group is sus
picious of every other group. We are divided up into
religious, political, social, national, racial and eco
nomic sects. Not being able to answer the question
of the Sphinx, it has torn us to fragments.
The poet, the statesman, the philosopher, the
scientist, the seer and the saint have told us, in elo
quent language, that we are all one, inter-related
vitally with each other and the universe, in one mov
ing, living organism; but we have refused to listen
to their instructions.
Nay worse, we have ridiculed, persecuted, jailed
and murdered these master thinkers. We have made
a bonfire of their books and, while the flames as
cended to Heaven in our condemnation, we retired
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 55
satisfied that we had gotten rid of these disturbers
of the things that are.
In our ignorance, we have slain our best friends
and burnt the precious volumes that contained the
truth which would save us. Pilate, the Roman Gov
ernor, sat on the bench. In front of him stood two
men—Jesus the Seer, Teacher and Representative
of a new order, and Barabas, the robber. The mob
crowded the courthouse, and milled outside like
cattle. Pilate cried out and said: "Which of these
men do you want crucified, and which released?"
The crowd cried out: "Release Barabas, and hand
Jesus, the disturber of the things that are, over to
us, to be crucified."
In stupid ignorance, all through history, we have
killed our Saviours and raised our robbers to the
throne.
Notwithstanding these attempts to silence the
voice of these great thinkers, and to consume their
teachings in flames, the truth they uttered with the
living voice, and the teachings they committed to
writing could not be suppressed or destroyed. All
that we have of enduring value in our civilization
was given to us by these great masters.
The blood of these martyrs purified the earth, and
the flames from the bonfires of their books enlight
ened the world. Even today in this so-called enlight
ened age, those who introduce a new philosophy of
living, the consequences of which will create a new
economic system and a new social order, will en
counter violent opposition.
PLENOCRACY is a new philosophy. As we have
seen, it is a duplicate of the Solar System in minia
ture. When this philosophy is in operation, it will
56 PLENOCRACY
create a new economic system for all, and a new
social order will be the inevitable consequence.
Now it is perfectly natural that the Old Capitalism
will use every means at its command to prevent its
adoption. If violent opposition fails to prevent its
advance, then its enemies will resort to ridicule.
However, we who represent PLENOCRACY are not
disturbed in the slightest. We know that it will suc
ceed; not because we represent it, but because it is
in harmony with the Universal Power that pervades
and directs the Universe.
"Will it work?" It is working, and has been work
ing for many millions of years. The Universal Crea
tive Principle is the power that creates plenty; so
the activity of the Universal Creative Principle in
creation is PLENOCRACY in action. Sir James
Jeans, in his great book, "The Universe Around Us",
says in the introduction, "Many have begun to sus
pect that the astronomy of today, like that of Galileo,
may have something to say in the enthralling ques
tion of the relation of human life to the Universe
in which it is placed, and on the beginnings, mean
ing, and destiny, of life."
"Before he can understand himself, man must first
understand the Universe from which all his sense
perceptions are drawn. He wishes to explore the
Universe, both in space and time, because he, him
self, forms part of it, and it forms part of him."
This great thinker says that all man's sense per
ceptions are drawn from the Universe in which he
is placed. This is another way of saying that all
the knowledge that man possesses or will possess,
comes from the Universe.
PLENOCRACY in seeking for a foundation for
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 57
an economic system -that will work, searches the
Universe for the central actuative principle that
brought it into being, and the Law of its Action.
He also says: "Before he can understand himself,
man must first understand the Universe." When
man gets a clear conception of the power that
brought the Universe into existence, and the law
which this power obeyed in the execution of this
great task, he will be in the possession of the high
est knowledge. On the basis of this knowledge, he
can build up a strong and enduring character within
himself, and organize all his thinking and activities
on an enduring foundation. This is the aim and
purpose of PLENOCRACY; and any man who criti
cizes or ridicules this aim and purpose, only reveals
his own depravity or stupidity.
We will continue with Sir. James Jeans. He ex
plores the atom for us, and from the experiments
and conclusions of Sir Ernst Rutherford and others,
he shows us that the atom is a perfect Solar System.
He explores the vast regions beyond the limits of
the Solar System, and shows us that the plan in the
atom is repeated in the millions of giant systems
that are in motion therein.
In the portion of space where the earth and the
planets revolve around the Sun, Sir James Jeans
continues his explorations. This portion of space is
known as The Solar System. After Sir James fin
ishes his magnificent survey of the Universe, he
says: "As inhabitants of the earth, we are living in
the very beginnings of time. We have come into
being in the fresh glory of the dawn, and a day of
almost unthinkable length stretches before us with
unimaginable opportunities for accomplishment;
58 PLENOCRACY
our descendants of far-off ages looking down this
long vista of time from the other end, will see our
present age as the misty morning of the world's
history; our contemporaries of today will appear as
dim heroic figures who fought their way through
jungles of ignorance, error and superstition, to dis
cover truth, to learn how to harness the forces of
nature and to make the world worthy for mankind
to live in.
"We are still too much engulfed in the greyness
of the morning mists to be able to imagine, however
vaguely, how this world of ours will appear to those
who come after us. But by what light we have, we
seem to discern that the main message of astronomy
is one of hope to the race, and of responsibility to
the individual —of responsibility, because we are
drawing plans and laying foundations for a longer
future than we can well imagine." In other words,
Sir James says, in substance, we are now in the
early morning of the world's history; mankind is
just emerging from the night of superstition, ignor
ance and error.
In the message of Astronomy, there is hope for
man. In drawing his plans, and laying foundations
for an enduring future, man can find the perfect
model for his own life in the structure and move
ments of the Universe, and that of his institutions.
In fact, the model cannot be found outside the Uni
verse as there is no outside. The Universe is all
inclusive.
PLENOCRACY has searched for, and found this
model. The model is in the atom, and it is repeated
in the Solar System and in the vast systems that
revolve in the space beyond the Solar System.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 59
No matter where this basic pattern is found; and
it is found in all the combinations of the Universe,
we have energy directed by intelligence expressing
itself in individuality, unity, co-operation, balance,
motion, harmony and co-ordination.
In the Solar System, where the earth acts in uni
son with the Sun and the other planets, creating a
perfect economic system, supplying abundance for
all forms of life, we find these factors in action. So
when the question is asked: Will PLENOCRACY
work?, abiding and constant proof is furnished in
the Solar System.
PLENOCRACY would transfer the model in the
heavens to the earth, and organize an economic sys
tem in perfect alignment therewith; furthermore,
when the question is asked "Will PLENOCRACY
work?", abiding and constant proof is found in the
atom, itself.
Science tells us that there are about ninety-two
atoms in existence; these atoms are the tiny bricks
out of which the whole Universe is constructed.
These atoms, through the law of their affinities, have
entered into an almost infinite multitude of combina
tions, forming all the substances, organic and in
organic, upon the earth, in the Solar System and
in the vast systems that revolve outside the limits
of the Solar System.
Within the limits of the atom, we have energy
directed by intelligence expressing itself in individu
ality, unity, co-operation, balance, motion, harmony
and co-ordination. Under the direction of the Uni
versal Creative Intelligence, these factors have built
the Universe, and through it flows a stream of abun
dance for all life.
60 PLENOCRACY
The Scientific Chemist in his laboratory, by obey
ing the laws of atomic affinity, has produced, and
is now producing, new substances in vast variety
for human use.
PLENOCRACY is the Universal Creative Prin
ciple in action through Suns, Planetary Systems,
galaxies and atoms, creating abundance for all life.
"Will PLENOCRACY work?" From the whole Uni
verse, and from every department of action therein,
from the smallest combination in the atom to the
largest in the galaxy, comes the answer. Yes; it
works now, and has worked for millions of years in
the past, and will work for millions of years in the
future.
The Law of its Action in all realms is that of use
and service, creating abundance for all.
Again, as we have said before, we have discovered
in our explorations in the Universe that the power
that brought the Universe into existence, required
space, time, energy and intelligence. Energy di
rected by intelligence, operated in space, through
time, causing to flow through the channels of time
abundance for all.
In fact that has been done, and is now in operation
in the regions of space beyond the Solar System, and
it has been done, and is now in operation in the
Solar System, and it can be done on the earth. The
man who denies this statement must be able to show
that it is impossible for energy, directed by intelli
gence, operating in space through time, to create
abundance.
When PLENOCRACY is organized as an economic
system on the earth, it will use space, time, energy
and intelligence, creating abundance for all. We have
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 61
these factors on this earth. We have space, or land;
we have time; we have energy and we are supposed
to have intelligence.
The Old Capitalism has used these factors to
create abundance for the few; its repeated failures,
and its recent collapse, shows that it was not di
rected by creative, constructive intelligence. The
flood of remedies that are being proposed today, to
cure our economic disorders, are merely surface
remedies. They are merely palliative, and can have
no enduring effect.
For instance; everybody says that agriculture is
a basic industry. The farmer is in a terrible dilem
ma. There are only a few of the nine men he sus
tains in the cities, who have purchasing power to
buy his products. He must sell what he has to sell
below the cost of production, and he is in debt to
the terrible extent of a thousand million dollars.
So our so-called economists and political leaders
are devising various schemes to save the farmer.
You cannot save the farmer group permanently, by
drawing the life-blood from the veins of other
groups. It is a stupid policy to "rob Peter to pay
Paul"; and that is what all these remedies mean.
PLENOCRACY says that the plight of the farmer
group is due, first to the destructive methods of the
Old Capitalism, and second to the farmers' ignor
ance of Scientific Farming.
The farmer is hog-tied in two ways; first by the
load of debt fastened on him by the Old Capitalism
and, second by his own ignorance of what his farm
will produce, by intensive and scientific farming. If
our government can lift the debt from the shoulders
of foreign nations by a moratorium, so as to give
62 PLENOCRACY
them a chance to readjust themselves; it can, by the
same method, lift the burden of debt from the
shoulders of the farmer, so as to give him a chance
to readjust himself.
PLENOCRACY says that the forces that will save
the farmer and farm are in the farmer and the
farm. The earth is the source of all genuine wealth.
Within the farmer's brains there is intelligence, and
in the soil of his farm there is an abundance of
wealth. Intelligent co-operation with the energy of
the Sun, and the productive powers of the soil, will
solve the farmers' problems.
The farmer has within himself and his farm, all
the equipments and elements necessary to save him
self.
In our study of the action of the Universal Crea
tive Principle in building the physical universe, we
found that it used intelligence to direct energy in
space, through time to create abundance. The farmer
can do the same thing. He can use intelligence to
direct energy within the space of his farm; through
time, that is Springtime, Summertime, Autumntime
and Wintertime, to create an abundance of genuine
wealth for himself, his family and his cattle. The
surplus products of such a farmer would find ready
sale. If space permitted, we could furnish a multi
tude of instances to prove this statement.
As we have said before, every cubic inch of space
in the Universe is filled with energy. It may be ac
tive, or it may be in equilibrium. The created Uni
verse was brought into expression from within. The
plan of the external Universe, in the fullness of its
perfection, lay inclosed in the timeless, spaceless
unseen. The Universal Creative Power brought space
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 63
into existence, as the theatre of its operations within
the limits of space and the Universe in the perfec
tion of all its equipments, slowly enlarged into visible
expression. It was a gradual evolution. The word
evolution comes from two Latin words: E, out of,
and volve, to roll. The revolving suns, worlds and
planets, as they rotate and move in space, create
time. As we have seen, our time is measured out to
us by the rotation of our earth on its axis, and its
revolution around the Sun.
The emergence of the visible universe into space
and time, shows that there is lying dormant in every
atom in space, infinite forces; physical, electrical,
mental and spiritual. As we have said before, these
forces all come from one source. The difference be
tween them is in their rates of motion. We can see
this principle in action all around us on this earth.
Nobody has ever seen an atom. Scientists who
have made a study of the atom, say that the atom
is nothing but an infinitesimal whirl of energy. All
of the ninety-two atoms out of which all things
emerged, are built up in mathematical proportion
around atom number one, which is called the hydro
gen atom. According to this theory, the entire visible
universe, in its vastness and almost infinite variety
and perfection, emerged from the invisible atom.
The positive and negative forces in the atom are the
right and left hands of the Infinite Intelligence as
it brought the Universe slowly into expression.
The Scientific Chemist as he creates new combina
tions from atoms in his laboratory, is following in
the tracks of the Infinite Intelligence.
Nobody has ever seen life. No chemist has ever
caught it in his test tube, or manufactured it in his
6i PLENOCRACY
laboratory. No botanist has ever succeeded in catch
ing it. As he dissects the plants in his attempts to
find it, it vanishes. No anatomist has ever found it
in the process of dissection. Yet we all know that
life exists. We can see its effects. Life directing
energy is a mysterious and tremendous force. It
lies in the deeps of the unseen, and vanishes when we
attempt to find it. It defies analysis and definition.
We have a vast variety of organic life-forms on this
earth. In the vegetable kingdom we have trees, cere
als, root crops and vegetables. In the animal kingdom
we have a vast variety of life-forms, including man.
All these forms emerge from the life that lies in the
seed. The entire plan of the tree, animal or man lies
in the invisible life-principle in the seed. When that
life-principle is placed in favorable surroundings, it
begins to act. It seizes on the elements that are in
its environments. It changes and combines these
elements into living cells. It organizes these cells
into groups and, with a marvellous intelligence, it
slowly builds a body for itself that is in accordance
with the nature of the plan that lies within it, in
the unseen.
In the emergence, growth and development of ani
mals, trees, vegetables and plants, we can see the
Universal Creative Principle in action.
Thus we have arrived at a very practical thought,
which is this: The external form assumed by any
living organism is the outward expression of the
plan that lies within the seed. The visible is the out
ward expression of the invisible.
To be sure, there is action and reaction between
the forces that are within and the forces that are
without. The action of the forces without may
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 65
modify the form, but they do not change it.
Now we have seen that the pattern that lies in
the unseen, in the atom, is carried up and reappears
in the Solar System, and in the vast systems that
revolve in the regions that are beyond its limits.
The idea hidden in the atom becomes the hub-thought
in the Universe. All things are the outcome of, and
related to the atom.
We must remember that, at all times, this is the
result of the action of perfect creative intelligence.
Man has created many institutions here on this
earth, and each institution has an inner pattern; a
pattern that originated in the unseen depths of some
human consciousness. Each of these institutions
have a hub-thought, and every spoke, together with
the rim, are related to and held together by the hub.
These institutions are the outward expressions of
the central conception of the institution. So in gov
ernment we have Autocracy, Imperialism, Limited
Monarchy, Republic, Democracy, Dictatorship and
Socialism. The outward expressions vary in accord
ance with the inner central idea.
In philosophy we have different systems. These
systems differ, because the central thoughts from
which they originated differ. The same law holds
good in our religions, our medical systems, educa
tional systems, legal systems and economic systems.
The inevitable result of such a condition is nothing
but stormy controversy and universal confusion. In
the Universe at large, in the realms beyond the
reach of stupid human interference, we find nothing
but eternal perfect order, perfect co-ordination, har
monious unity and joyous co-operation. This is
PLENOCRACY, and the great message it would
66 PLENOCRACY
convey to the weary disturbed world is this:
Let us listen to the wisdom of the
clear-eyed scientists, as they tell us of
the way the Infinite Intelligence works
in the Universe. Let us regulate our
own lives and construct our institu
tions in accordance with the way it
works, and all will be well.
Now we can clearly see that, before PLENOC
RACY can be put into an economic system, it must
be put into living men and women. Ideas can be
packed into creeds and definitions, and so long as
they remain there, they are of no value whatsoever.
Ideas may be put into eloquent sentences, paragraphs
and chapters, in a beautifully bound book, and so
long as they remain there, they will be as useless
as rubbish. Ideas must be put into living men and
living women. They must become incarnate. They
must be written into the brain-cells of persons. They
must dominate and control the lives of these persons.
There is a vast difference between possessing an
idea and having that idea possess you. When a per
son simply possesses an idea, he can put it on or
take it off, just as he does his coat. It is no part of
him. But on the other hand, when an idea takes
complete possession of a person's intellect and his
heart; when he loves it more than he does his life;
when he would surrender his life, before he would
give it up, then that idea becomes dynamically pow
erful; it commands the man, and he goes out into
the world and proclaims it. This is the only way to
put a new set of ideas into operation. History is
full of illustrations of this principle. To give one
illustration out of many: John Wesley, the founder
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 67
of Methodism, traveled 225,000 miles on horseback,
preached 52,000 sermons, eighteen a week, for a
period of fifty-six years. He was ridiculed, perse
cuted, dragged through horse-ponds, driven from his
father's pulpit; but nothing could stop him. Like a
flame of fire, he swept through the lengths and
breadths of the British Isles, proclaiming the trans
forming principles of Christianity. He did not care
for money. He ignored profits. He was burning up
with a desire to serve; and who can measure the
good that this lone man accomplished.
PLENOCRACY can never be put into action in
any other way. It can never be put into action by
men who are dominated by the money complex. The
essence of PLENOCRACY is service. The man who
will succeed in representing this science is the man
who is aflame with the desire to render service.
To become a full-fledged, capable and effective
Plenocrat, a person must study this book. He must
read it again and again, until its spirit masters
him, and its principles become an integral part of
his deepest life.
When' fully understood and put into action,
PLENOCRACY will transform the life and bring it
into step with the Universal Creative Principle.
When that happens, the individual becomes the
vehicle through which flows the energy of the uni
versal life and power. This life and power, auto
matically, expresses itself in abundance.
The technique of PLENOCRACY is known as The
UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan. This system is
knowledge and action. This Plan recognizes and
uses the same factors that we discovered in the Uni
verse at large, and in the Solar System : Space, time,
68 PLENOCRACY
energy and intelligence or life. We have these factors
on this earth as follows:
SPACE is land.
TIME is measured out to us con
stantly, in seconds, minutes, hours,
days, weeks, months, seasons, years
and centuries.
ENERGY we have unlimited quanti
ties of it in man-power, horse-power
and machine-power. All this power is,
as we have seen, Solar Energy.
INTELLIGENCE or LIFE we have
in large quantity, in living men and
women, and in vast variety in the seeds
of trees, flowers, cereals, root crops
'
and vegetables.
As we have before stated, every living organism,
whether it is a plant, tree, man, group or nation,
contains the forces within itself, which will save it
or damn it. We build our own hells and construct
our own heavens, by the way we use the forces at
our command.
America, this great continent, with its millions of
people, contains the forces within itself that will
wreck it or build it; the results depend upon the
way we use these forces.
In creating abundance for all, PLENOCRACY, in
its technique, applies energy and intelligence to the
land. The earth is the source of all material-wealth.
Material-wealth is anything that can be used to sus
tain physical life. We sometimes speak of mental-
wealth, spiritual-wealth, wealth of affection. These
things may be defined as things that satisfy and
sustain the mind, the spirit or the affections.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 69
Material-wealth is economic, and deals with the
physical body. Money is not wealth; whether it is
gold, silver, copper, brass, greenbacks, bank notes,
checks, etc. It merely represents wealth, and it is
never a true representative. It is not like a yard
stick. It is constantly fluctuating. You may have
coins in your pocket today, when measured in com
modities, worth one-thousand dollars. When meas
ured within six months, in the same commodities, it
may be worth only five-hundred dollars.
The products that come from the earth, however,
are- real wealth. The values in these products are
genuine, and never change. The price may change,
but the price is artificial. The elements of value that
inhere in the commodities are permament.
These foodstuffs that are produced on the land are
condensed Solar Energy. When they are taken into
the body, as they pass through the stomach and the
intestines, a chemical change takes place. This
chemical change creates new combinations and re
leases the Solar Energy. The bloodstream carries
these new combinations and the energy to every part
of the body, to build and repair the cells, and sup
ply the body with new energy. This work is carried
on in the subconscious realm of the human domain,
away beyond the control of the individual.
This work is done by the same Universal Creative
Principle that brought the universe into existence,
and sustains it. Man is a living part of the living
Universe.
The same Universal Creative Principle that is
present in the seed, co-operating with the Solar
Energy and the productive power of the earth,
creates the various food substances that are needed
70 PLENOCRACY
to sustain the body. There is a perfect correspond
ence existing between the elements and energy in
these foodstuffs, and the needs of the human body.
The time is close at hand, when the Scientific
Chemist will be able to measure the value of the
elements and energy that are condensed in these
foodstuffs.
The time is close at hand, when the Scientific Phy
sician will be able to cure disease by prescribing a
course of scientifically balanced foods. Scientific
medicine is rapidly departing from the practice of
dosing the people with drugs, and is turning its. at
tention to the study of foodstuffs.
Foods may be roughly divided into three classes:
The foods that supply the muscles, the foods that
build the brain and the nerves, and the foods that
supply energy.
A great many diseases can be traced to a deficiency
of some of these elements. The Scientific Physician
of the future will be able to cure the disease by sup
plying the deficiency; and by knowing the elements
that are in the foodstuffs, he can prescribe the foods
that contain these elements.
For further information of this important sub
ject, I would suggest that the readers of this book
get my book on the "Science of Mastership", and
read the chapter on "The Science of Food."
PLENOCRACY places strong emphasis on the
central fact that the earth is the source of all genu
ine material-wealth.
Why should gold be made the standard of value?
It has a small amount of intrinsic value, because it
can be used for ornamental purposes, or made into
teeth, but it has no value, whatever, as food. It can
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 71
not be used for fuel. We cannot make our garments
out of it, and we cannot build shelters with it. To
be sure, if we have gold, we can buy all these things
of value, because gold has been made the standard
of value. But it is a man-made, artificial standard.
If we could eat gold, wear it, make our clothes out
of it and build houses out of it, then it would be a
true standard of wealth. In that case, we would
plant gold in the Springtime; it would grow and
ripen in the Summertime. We would harvest it in
the Autumn and store it away for food in the Win
ter, and to furnish the seed for the coming Spring
time.
The wealth of a nation is based upon the ability
of the people of that nation to bring the productive
power of the soil into use. Returning to the state
ment we have made repeatedly; it is based on the
energy of the people, directed by their intelligence
applied to the soil, over a period of time, creating a
stream of commodities for human use.
Since all real wealth comes from the soil, the
members of the Plenocratic Association put their
money into the earth. Under our present man-made
money system, a dollar represents energy. It is not
energy in itself; but it can buy energy; therefore,
it may be said to represent energy.
A dollar in PLENOCRACY, then, is a unit of
energy. We cannot say how much energy it is, be
cause it is subject to change. However, we look
upon it as a unit of energy.
In the Plenocratic Association, each member has
the privilege of putting from one unit to twenty-five
units into the earth. When I speak of the earth, I
refer to good, productive land.
72 PLENOCRACY
In PLENOCRACY, we call good, productive land,
potential space. That is space which possesses the
elements within itself, which will grow good crops.
Each member of the Plenocratic Association, acting
upon his own initiative as an individual, moved by
his own enlightened self-interest, employs a Service
Agent; this service agent must possess an intelli
gence trained along the lines of Scientific Farming.
He must have this kind of intelligence, because he
is employed by the member to use the energy units
that the member supplies him with in growing
crops. In other words, the units of energy must be
put to work on the land, to produce real wealth.
The member signs no contract. There are no such
things as contracts in PLENOCRACY. The member
employs the Service Agent to render certain serv
ices, and he draws up a simple agreement, and in that
agreement with his Service Agent, he agrees to pay
a certain specified fee for his services. The Service
Agent must eat, and he must have some units of
energy or dollars to buy groceries, clothes, pay rent
and his expenses. Apart from this specified fee, the
member tells his Service Agent what he wants him
to do with the units of energy or dollars that he
hands him each month. These units must go into
good land, and the Service Agent must use his intel
ligence to grow crops on the land.
The member tells his Service Agent that, when
the crops are harvested, he will take all of the in
crease up to 30 % , and what is left goes to his Serv
ice Agent as pay for the service he has rendered.
Now it must be emphasized in the strongest man
ner that this 30 % is not in money, it is the increase
in foodstuffs produced on the land up to 30%.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 73
Suppose the Service Agent takes one unit of
energy and buys a bushel of potatoes. He plants that
bushel in good potato land, and produces eight bu
shels. Here is an increase of seven bushels. After
the expenses of the cost of production is paid, the
member gets 30 % of what remains, and the Service
Agent gets the balance.
If the member does not want the potatoes, and
wants his portion in cash, then the Service Agent
sells the seven bushels, takes out the cost of produc
tion and gives the member 30% of the money he
receives.
The factors that we are talking about will work
on one farm, through one man. But to get the
maximum results, there must be a large number of
members. Leaving the individual, we will consider
the results. When we say there are 10,000 Pleno-
crats co-operating through the same Service Agent;
in that case, the Service Agent, in order to render
efficient service, must comply with certain princi
ples. These principles are not artificial or man-
made. They are in full operation in nature.
The first principle is known as potential, diversi
fied space. What we mean by this is that the Service
Agent must select productive land in different parts
of the country; so that, if there is a crop failure in
one part, it will be made up by crop success in an
other part.
We have three crop zones in the United States:
Crop Zone No. 1—Where one crop can be grown
within a year.
Crop Zone No. 2—Where two crops can be grown
within a year.
Crop Zone No. 3—Where three crops can be
74. PLENOCRACY
grown within a year.
The Service Agent, using his intelligence, pro
vides potential, diversified space or productive land
in different crop zones, where energy is applied,
through time, in producing wealth.
The second principle that the Service Agent must
comply with is the requirements of time.
The Philosophy of PLENOCRACY cannot be
demonstrated by one man working in a square inch
of space, within a second of time. However, it can
be demonstrated by a number of men applying
energy, directed by intelligence on diversified land,
stretching through a specified period of time.
In nature's processes, in growing crops, it takes
the seasons to produce a crop. The Wintertime
is the period of rest, in which period nature gathers
renewed strength for the work of the next nine
months.
Furthermore; the Service Agent must cut down
the cost of production as much as possible, so as to
get the largest possible increase in crop production.
To do this, he does not buy the land, he leases it for
a period of five years, with the privilege of purchas
ing it at the end of the five years, at a specified
price.
Now then, what have we? We have 10,000 mem
bers supplying the Service Agent with, say on an
average, five units of energy a month, each. In such
a case, the Service Agent has 50,000 units of energy,
or 50,000 dollars each month. This amount of energy,
directed by intelligence, on tracts of selected, pro
ductive land in the different crop zones of the United
States, through a period of five years, creates a con
stant stream of foodstuffs in abundance, for the use
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 75
of all concerned. This wealth can be placed in ware
houses, and each member takes all of the increase
up to 30% annually, based upon the amount of
energy he has contributed. The Service Agent gets
nothing until after the member gets the 30%.
The third principle that the Service Agent com
plies with is that ability precedes liability. In other
words, the ability to do is supplied by the members
in the Units of Energy, or dollars contributed. The
Service Agent cannot go beyond that ability.
So then, in this rapid sketch of "The way PLEN
OCRACY works", we come back to our original
proposition.
We have energy directed by intelligence, operating
in space or land, through cycles of time, creating
abundance for all.
Now in our study of the action of the Universal
Creative Principle, we found that as the Universe
moved on through cycles of time, the stream of abun
dance constantly increased in volume. So in the ap
plication of the Principles of PLENOCRACY, the
stream of commodities increases in volume every
five years. In accordance with this principle, the
member: —
At the end of the first 5 years takes all of the
increase annually, up to 30%
At the end of the second 5 years takes all of
the increase annually, up to 45%
At the end of the third 5 years takes all of the
increase annually, up to 60%
At the end of the fourth 5 years takes all of
the increase annually, up to 75%
At the end of the fifth 5 years takes all of the
increase annually, up to 90%
76 PLENOCRACY
In fact, if the majority of the people became mem
bers of the Plenocratic Association immediately, the
90% increase could be taken by the members now,
without waiting for the passage of the cycles of
time. The balance left would pay the Service Agent
handsomely. The natural increase of the productive
power of the earth can be doubled by intensive sci
entific farming.
Elsewhere in this book, we have cited the achieve
ments of that marvelous colored scientist, Doctor
Carver, of Tuskegee Institute, Alabama, showing
what can be done on the land, by the application of
scientific methods. By using these methods, the Serv
ice Agent would double the returns to the members
and himself.
According to Henry Ford, the time is coming
when farming and manufacturing industry will be
combined. During the Summer, the farmer will cul
tivate his farm, and in the Winter he will manu
facture the by-products of his farm into things of
use. So then, the farmer will also become an. indus
trialist.
Excellent clothing is now being made in Germany,
using one-half hemp and flax-straw, and one-half
cotton.
Cotton seed, which was a garbage in 1860, became
a fertilizer in 1870, a cattle feed in 1880 and now
it is a table food. So, cotton seed, which was a waste
product, is now the raw material from which $500,-
000,000 worth of useful products are made. It is
used in the production of oil and cotton seed cake.
This oil is used for miners' lamp-oil, and in the pro
duction of soap and soap powders; glycerine and
nitro-glycerine which, in turn, is employed in the
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 77
manufacture of roofing paints and composition roof
ing.
Another great source of by-products is corn. The
average four-year production of corn in the United
States is 2,676,220,000 bushels. From each bushel
there are 14 lbs. of corncobs produced. The annual
production of corncobs, therefore, is 19,000,000 tons.
The Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of
Agriculture has made a study of the uses to which
this waste product can be put. When it is distilled,
various important chemical products are produced.
100 tons of corncobs produce, on distillation,
75 tons of Adhesive,
35 tons of Cellulose,
3 tons of Acetate of Lime,
1Y2 tons of Furfural.
Furfural has many uses. It is valuable in paint,
is a good varnish remover; it is used in the manu
facture of bakelite and synthetic resins and as an
anti-knock gasoline.
For every bushel of wheat produced on the farm,
there is 80 lbs. of straw. A ton of dried wheat straw,
on being distilled in a vacuum, gives 10,000 to
12,500 cubic feet of Combustible Gas, 625 to 640
lbs. of Carbon, 10 to 12 gallons of Straw Oil, and
400 pounds of Pitch.
From these straw products, roofing cement, auto
enamel, metal paint are made, and through chemical
action, a number of other things of value have been
produced, such as auto-top dressing, barn paint, fly
spray, stock dip germicides, boiler scale remover,
rust eliminator, etc.
There is a firm in St. Joseph, Missouri, that is
producing 125,000 square feet of Insulating Board
78 PLENOCRACY
per day from wheat straw.
A company at Dubuque, Iowa, is producing Insu
lated Wall Board from Corn Stalks. 2,000 feet of
Wall Board can be produced from one ton of Corn
Stalks. Iowa, alone, produces 10,000,000 tons of
Corn Stalks per year; sufficient to produce 20,000,-
000,000 square feet of Wall Board per year.
These are just a few of the things than can be
done; showing that the time is coming when the
waste products of the farm will be manufactured
on the farm into things of value.
The big ugly factories, where harnessed power is
centralized, the big cities with their skyscrapers,
their crime and dirt, their palaces and slums, will
gradually pass away with the system that created
them.
The distribution of cheap power from powerful
short-wave radio stations will do away with all our
clumsy, heavy engines; smoke will vanish; the ex
haust from gasoline engines will cease to poison the
air. The almost Infinite power of the electricity that
comes from the Sun, and falls upon the earth, will
be distributed to run all our machinery, cook our
food, wash our clothes and, through a system of
wires in the land, it will be used to shorten the sea
son of crop growing, and double the volume of farm
production.
What man can imagine, man can do. In this sen
tence, I am thinking of the Scientific imagination.
The time is coming when man will be able to manu
facture any kind of a climate, anywhere he wants
it. It won't be necessary to travel to Florida or Cali
fornia to escape the rigors of the Winter; or to
travel North to escape the burning heat of Summer.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 79
Man will be able to convey the heat of the Sun by
electricity to the arctic regions, and modify the tor
rid heat of the tropics by conveying the frigid air
of the arctics to the equator. He will be able to
harness the tremendous power of the tides as they
rise and fall, and convert that into cheap electricity.
He will harness the volcanoes and make them use
ful servants of humanity. He will control the rivers
and compel them to fertilize the soil with the valu
able silt that they now carry from the mountains
out to the sea. He will muzzle the ocean and prevent
it from eating its way into the land. He will survey
the bottom of the ocean and map out its valleys and
mountains in his search for new sources of power
and wealth.
The utilization of the tremendous energies that
are in the Sun and earth, directed by creative intel
ligence, will abolish ignorance, crime and war for
ever. No longer shall moronic stupidity be allowed
to sit in seats of power amongst men.
What man has done in the last one-hundred years
is just a preparation for what he will do in the next
one-hundred years. Within the next one-hundred
years the big improvement will be in man, himself.
In the present generation our leaders are wander
ing in the shadows of their own ignorance, not know
ing what to do with the powerful machines that
science has given us. The complexes of their own
ignorance master them, and it would be a waste of
time to attempt to teach them.
To start a revolution and kill them off, would be
the height of folly. To condemn and denounce them
is altogether out of place. They are the victims, and
so are we, of a destructive system that is rapidly
80 PLENOCRACY
passing away, and these men are passing away with
it. The Infinite forces of evolution are tossing the
men and systems into discard, which stand in the
way of the new advance.
In the science of PLENOCRACY we offer our
contribution to this advance. When the student of
this science begins to get a clear understanding of
the basis of its philosophy ; when he sees it in action
in the regions beyond the limits of the Solar Sys
tem, in the Solar System, and in the Earth, he will
begin to see the far reaching difference between it
and the Old Capitalism. In addition to seeing the
difference, he will begin to see the vast superiority
of PLENOCRACY.
In fact, as we have said in the beginning of this
chapter, there is no identity whatsoever between the
two systems. The spirit that animates them, and
the words employed to express their activities, are
totally different.
The Old Capitalism is based on a perverted human
instinct —on unbridled individualism. PLENOC
RACY is based on the way the Universal Creative
Principle works in building and serving the Uni
verse.
The Old Capitalism is organized to amass profit
for the few. In the chapter on "The Grand Illusion"
in this book, we have seen that profits under the old
system are a fiction, which, when followed, leads into
a quagmire of debt.
PLENOCRACY, being in line with the way the
Universal Creative Principle works, creates abun
dance for all. Instead of profits, we have the law of
increase. What is meant by the law of increase is
this: One bushel of potatoes planted in the earth
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 81
produces, by the law of increase, eight bushels. One
bushel of wheat, when planted in the earth, produces,
by the law of increase, from twenty-five to fifty
bushels. This law of increase governs the growth of
all crops and life forms. It is natural and inheres
in the natu're of things.
This law of increase throws far into the shadow
the interest and profit features of the Old Capi
talism. The profit idea and the interest idea, as un
derstood and practiced by the Old Capitalism, can
find no place to function in PLENOCRACY. These
two features of the Old Capitalism would be as un
comfortable in PLENOCRACY as the devil would
be in heaven.
PLENOCRACY in the law of increase has some
thing vastly superior to profit and interest. The law
of increase is the Universal Creative Principle in
action, enriching all on the basis of the amount of
units of energy supplied by the members and the
services rendered by the Service Agent.
The law of the Old Capitalism is "Get the profits,
no matter who is hurt." This is a raw way of ex
pressing it. The Old Capitalism would like to appear
respectable by robing itself in the garments of
service. However, we all know that the old system,
to use the language of Shakespeare, uses "the livery
of heaven to serve the devil in."
The law of PLENOCRACY is the same law which
the Universal Creative Principle obeys, and that
law is that of use and service for the benefit of all.
The self-interest of the individual, and the incen
tive to action, is much more richly provided for in
PLENOCRACY than it is in the Old Capitalism. The
law of increase constantly increasing, makes this
82 PLENOCRACY
provision, and it makes it in such a way that all are
enriched and no one is impoverished.
Under the Old Capitalism, with its policy of
"Everyone for himself and the devil take the hind
most", the enrichment of the few is the result of
the impoverishment of the many.
We have said that in PLENOCRACY no contracts
are signed. In fact, no contracts are necessary. The
relationship established between the members and
the Service Agent are perfectly natural, free and
completely satisfactory. The self-interest of the
members and the self-interest of the Service Agent
are so enmeshed that when the machine moves, the
self-interest of all the parties concerned is completely
satisfied, so that no contract is needed.
Self-interest is the most powerful moving and
binding influence in existence. A contract is not
needed if the self-interest of all the parties in an
enterprise is satisfied.
Jeremy Bentham and Sir William Blackstone were
contemporaries. They lived in England many years
ago. Both were great lawyers. Bentham was the
champion of self-interest as the most powerful force
in human life. Blackstone was the defender of the
written contract.
On one occasion they engaged in a hot argument
on the subject. Bentham said to Blackstone, "Would
you sign a contract if you were convinced that it
was against your self-interest?" Blackstone said
"No." Then Bentham said, "That shows that self-in
terest precedes all contracts and dictates the sign
ing or the refusal to sign, therefore it is the most
powerful, and when it is satisfied, no contract is
needed."
PLENOCRACY
In PLENOCRACY the law of increase is so rich
in its provisions that the self-interests of all who
cooperate in the movement is more than satisfied.
Under the Old Capitalism the contract is the "sine
qua non." This is a Latin phrase which means
"without which nothing." So, under the Old Capi
talism there is nothing done without a contract. It
could not be otherwise, because each party in the
transaction is eager to get the advantage in the deal,
To protect the interests of each, a contract is nec
essary.
Some of these contracts are amazing documents.
In their attempts to cover all the items in the trans
actions and the interests of all the parties thereto,
the lawyers who draw it up are compelled to use so
many words, definitions, whereases, wherefores and
obscure legal phrases, that after they have written
the contract nobody understands it. The lawyers
who wrote it do not understand it themselves.
To explain and interpret these contracts and to
protect the people from the greed of an unbridled
individualism, we have set up a complicated legal
system, with numerous courts, judges and a great
army of lawyers. All this is the result of an un
natural and artificial economic system. When
PLENOCRACY is in full force amongst us, this
legal system will pass away. PLENOCRACY, being
based on natural law, will not need it.
PLENOCRACY,
'
being the working principle of
the Universe, will, when placed in operation amongst
men, simplify and unify all human systems and
gradually do away with all the complex and compli
cated methods which interfere with its free natural
action.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 85
There is a wide difference between the technique
of Technocracy and that of PLENOCRACY. In a
book written by Harold Loeb, called "Life In a
Technocracy —What It Might Be Like", the central
doctrine of this system known as "Energy Determi
nants" is applied. In the application, everything is
determined in terms of units of energy. To get the
unit of energy, all the energy available in the coun
try is measured. This total energy is divided by the
total population of the country. This gives the
amount of energy that each individual can use. This
becomes the basis of a new money system. The unit
of energy is called an "Erg."
Ergs instead of dollars become the medium of ex
change. After stating the amount of energy avail
able for each individual, then the entire population
is measured, weighed, classified, regimented and put
to work. To use the language of the writer, "The
state, or perhaps it should be called the Industrial
system, since it has few characteristics of a political
system, will guarantee each member of the com
munity a proportionate share of the energy produc
tion of the community. In return for this energy al
lotment, the individual would give the community a
call on his efforts. To keep track of supplies, a cer
tificate would be issued to each human unit. This
would entitle him to his energy allotment and at the
same time specify his exact place and function in
the industrial system. At birth, of course, his func
tion would be to occupy a certain cot in a certain
hospital. The non-transferable certificate is canceled
at the end of each year, whether or not the quota
has been exhausted.
86 PLENOCRACY
"Since the quota represents energy which cannot
be hoarded and exists only in the using of it, wealth
accumulation becomes impossible. The energy may
be expended as one likes in clothes or furniture, or
in expensive aeroplane rides; the state is not con
cerned. The amount of each purchase is punched in
the certificate. The amount and kind, whether it is
a commodity, or motion, or housing, is recorded at
the distributing unit. By using a system of descrip
tive numbering, no difficulty occurs in recording
even the smallest transaction. Totals would be tele
graphed each night to the central accounting bureau."
So then in the application of the central idea in
Technocracy, every person is looked upon as a ma
chine, capable of doing a definite specified kind of
work. The economic system and the social order is
organized on the basis of a machine shop. There
will be a large number of departments all under the
control of a central governing board. It has been
estimated that four hours' work, four days a week,
would give in the United States an energy equivalent
in essential goods for each unit of population,
greater than anyone could conveniently use.
In such a system the entire economic and social
structure is mechanized. There is no room for per
sonal initiative, or personal incentive: the freedom
of the individual is destroyed: he becomes subser
vient to the State. Such a system will not work. It
is purely artificial and man made. Man is much
more than a machine. He is a living organism with
emotions, passions, a mind and a spirit; with an un
dying demand for freedom.
WILL PLENOCRACY WORK? 87
PLENOCRACY is, as we have stated repeatedly,
the Universal Creative Principle in action ; the prin
ciple that brought both man and the Universe into
existence ;
and man will never find the way out
of his misery and confusion until he
builds his own life, and that of his in
stitutions, on the way this universal
principle works.
Chapter Three
SETTING THE STAGE
HPHE Old Capitalism is dying of self-poisoning.
■*■
The doctors have been called. They have been,
and are now in consultation. Various remedies have
been employed. Financial oxygen has been injected.
The patient has not rallied, and never will. The doc
tors may succeed in staving off death for awhile, but
the end is coming soon. It is inevitable.
A New Age has dawned.
Does man set the stage for his own activities, or
is the stage set for him? When a New Age dawns,
does man make it dawn, or is it brought about by
some power infinitely superior to man?
We inflate everything, even ourselves. The philos
ophy of PLENOCRACY, not alone punctures in
flated securities, it punctures inflated personalities,
and brings both men and things down to their real
value.
How foolish and stupid we are. Man can create
nothing. The Universe is complete in itself. Its re
sources are boundless. Its energy is measured only
by omnipotence. Its laws are perfect.
When Herbert Spencer was asked the question:
"Is there a God?" He said, "Amidst all the uncer
tainties wherewith we are surrounded, we are sure
of only one thing, and that is, we stand in the pres
ence of an Infinite Energy, out of which all things
proceed." This Infinite Energy sets the stage for
man, and supplies him with the power to do his little
act on the stage of life.
SETTING THE STAGE 89
The only thing that man can do is to adjust him
self to the conditions that are created for him. The
theatre of man's operations is this earth. Astronomy
is a science. It is the Science of Relationships that
exist amongst the stars. It shows how this Infinite
Energy operated in creating the Universe, the Solar
System and the Earth. The Earth, according to as
tronomy, is two thousand million years old. Chem
ical and electric forces were the agencies employed
in the construction of the Universe.
Astronomers tell us that two thousand million
years ago, our earth was a whirling ball of gases.
As the years passed, the earth cooled gradually, and
a rocky crust was formed. As the cooling process
continued, the earth contracted, throwing the rocky
crust up into ridges; these ridges constituted the
mountain ranges.
Terrific electric storms raged in the atmosphere.
As the lightnings flashed through the oxygen and
hydrogen gases in the air, it changed them into
drenching rain. This deluge of rain wore the rocks
down, and the mud formed was carried by the rivers,
down to the plains, to create the soil. Then, one day,
when everything was ready, Life appeared in its
lowest form. It was a simple cell, born out of the
water. The important point to consider in this is,
that the stage was set on this earth for Life to mani
fest its activities. Before this time, human life and
vegetable life as we know it could not exist, because
of the terrific heat.
The process of change continued. The environ
ments of the one-celled animal changed, and it began
to adjust itself to the new environments, in order to
live. New forms of life appeared on the stage. Some
90 PLENOCRACY
cells took root in the soft mud, and became plants
and trees; others, preferring to live in the water,
adjusted themselves to their surroundings, by grow
ing gills, scales and fins. As conditions on the earth
changed, Life had to change its form.
Spencer—the great English Philosopher —said:
"Life is the result of the continuous adjustment of
inner forces to outer conditions." The Life Principle
had to change its form, to fit into the changed con
ditions. If it could not, or would not change, it died.
Under the operation of this Law of Adjustment,
many forms of life became extinct. The forms that
adjusted themselves, lived. As conditions improved,
the forms of life improved.
So, in the History of Life on this earth, we have
successive stages. The movement of life has always
been upward towards perfection of form and ex
pression. The plant age, the fish age, the reptile age,
the mammal age, followed each other until finally,
some 300,000 years ago, man appeared.
The point that I desire to emphasize in this sketch
is, that man had nothing to do with the setting of
the stage. The Infinite Energy, through the action
of electric and chemical forces, expressed through
fire, flood, earthquakes and convulsion, set the vari
ous stages for the unfolding drama of Life. Each
stage setting was an improvement on that which
preceded it, and Life, by adjusting itself to the im
proved surrounding, advanced slowly towards per
fection.
This law, or method of action, is still in operation.
It explains the death of Nations, Civilizations, Reli
gions, Governments and Systems. This law has never
been repealed. It cannot be repealed. It exists in
SETTING THE STAGE 91
the nature of things. We can see it in action now.
The Old Capitalism is dying, because it cannot ad
just itself to the conditions of the New Age that is
now dawning. The important thing for us to note
is, that man —now or at any time—had nothing to
do with the setting of the stage for Life's activities.
I wish that I could burn this thought into the
consciousness of every man: that Kings, Queens,
Presidents, Judges, Senates, Congresses, Confer
ences, have nothing to do with "Setting the Stage
for a New Advance."
After the stage has been set, then it is up to man
to adjust himself and his plans to the new condi
tions. The Old Capitalism was the product of the
age that is now expiring. Its structure and charac
ter is such that it cannot adjust itself to the demands
of the New Age, therefore it must die.
PLENOCRACY in its motive and method is in
full harmony with the demands of the New Age.
Through this plan, Humanity takes another step for
ward in the path of evolution.
The Old Capitalism has collapsed. The evidence
is all around us, in overwhelming abundance. We
have a great continent as the theatre of our opera
tions; well watered, strategically located, with im
mense resources. We can grow everything we need.
We could feed the world.
We are in the midst of abundance; yet millions
are starving. Cotton warehouses filled with cotton,
and millions in rags. Wheat granaries filled with
wheat, and millions crying for bread. Thousands of
millions in gold in the United States Treasury, and
in the vaults of our banks, the people's money; yet
the channels in which money flows are dry. The
92 PLENOCRACY
equipment and means to employ millions in readi
ness; yet we have eleven-millions out of work, living
on the dole. 98% of the social income, which is the
result of the work of all of us, diverted into the
yawning pockets of two per cent of the population.
The Old Capitalism stands condemned, and must be
abolished.
As that courageous Priest—Father Coughlin of
Detroit —says in one of his radio discourses: "The
concentration of wealth in the hands of the few, can
no longer be tolerated. A system that produces
chronic idleness for millions, must be corrected. An
industrial policy that does not provide for a yearly
wage, and for an opportunity for every willing
worker to labor, must be abolished, and a financial
plan that does not guarantee to a depositor in a bank
that he can get his money out of it as easily as he
puts it in, must be classified with nothing less than
high-brow racketeering. International diplomacy
that is builded only on the foundation of fostering
international investments, caring little about the
sacredness of human life and the pursuit of common
happiness, must be retired.
"The definition of capital—in terms of only gold
or silver —must be re-written, until it embraces
homes and farm-lands, and cherished possessions,
which are more sacred than pounds of sterling or
metal coin.
"A System of Taxation that so penal
izes an agriculturist or a city laborer
to the extent that it is far cheaper to
rent than to own, must be remodeled.
"Despotic control over the necessities of life, un
bridled competition amongst mass productionists,
SETTING THE STAGE 98
the fierce battle to control the state by Money
Lords. In a word, man's inhumanity to man, and
man's effort to get along without God and his prin
ciples, must be eliminated from the sphere of the
civilized world."
The Old Capitalism has been arraigned before the
bar of the nation's conscience. The indictments
against it have been drawn by the leading thinkers
of the nation—Philosophers, Scientists, Ministers,
Industrialists; and the beneficiaries of the system
itself, have all framed the indictment. The items in
the indictment are too numerous to catalog. The un
derlying purpose of an economic organization is, the
promotion of the well-being of Society. It is the
duty and aim of any economic organization, to see
to it that the means are provided, whereby society
can satisfy its wants to the fullest extent, and at
the least cost. Any individual right, which stands
in the way of the furtherance of this ideal, must be
brushed aside. The individual may imagine that he
is hurt; but in the long run, he will receive larger
returns.
The present System of Economic or
ganization known as capitalism, under
which we now live, has not met these
conditions. It is now arraigned before
the Law of Justice, and charged in the
indictment with the following:
It has ruthlessly destroyed our great forests for
its own enrichment.
It has robbed us of vast tracts of valuable land,
by illegal methods.
It has monopolized our treasures of coal, minerals,
oil and gas and charged us exorbitant rates for that
PLENOCRACY
which, originally, belonged to us.
It has robbed us of our most valuable water-power
sites.
It has interfered with us as we engage in the
important work of electing public officials —by
threat, intimidation, pull and graft. It has in every
election, thwarted our will and reversed our aims.
It has captured our government and has compelled
our Presidents, Senates, Congresses, Judges and the
whole army of public officials to do its bidding to
the detriment of the public welfare.
It has poisoned the pure stream of liberty, by
lying diplomacy, bribes and wholesale debauchery.
It has taken unfair advantage of us in times of
stress, and robbed us of our rights in coining and
circulating our own money.
It has monopolized our money; bought our public
servants, and made them pass a law allowing it to
add ten dollars to every real dollar it had, giving it
the power to charge us excessive interest on this
fictitious wealth.
Having bought our public servants, it made them
pass laws that enabled it to legally steal the money
we deposited in its banks.
It has organized stock exchanges to gamble with
all life's necessities.
Having control of the legislatures, it has made
gambling legal and respectable.
By making gambling legal, it has lifted a crime
into the realms of virtue. Through making the crime
of gambling legal and respectable, it has poisoned
the public morals, and robbed millions of their honest
savings.
Through its methods of inflation and creating fic
SETTING THE STAGE 95
titious wealth, and selling the public nothing for
something, it erected a huge structure, false through
out, which fell in vast ruins, bringing complete ruin
to millions, hundreds of thousands of suicides;
spreading despair, doubt, fear, poverty and misery
everywhere.
It has robbed the farmer, starved working men,
thrown millions out of work.
It has slain the children, enslaved mothers and
created general hell everywhere.
It is the supreme War Maker; with
exceptions, it has been the fomenter
of aU wars.
Its greatest crime was the world war, where
65,000,000 were mobilized. The money cost was
$5,000,000 an hour, and $1,000,000 an hour in prop
erty values destroyed. 8,500,000 killed and 21,000,-
000 wounded.
It was organized on exploitation; it feeds on ex
ploitation; it breathes exploitation; it is composed
of exploitation. Its spirit is extreme selfishness; its
atmosphere is as cold as the arctic circle. Its lan
guage is cruel, and its actions are brutal. Its hands
are stained with blood.
It has diverted 98% of the social income into the
yawning pockets of 2% of the people, leaving only
2% to be distributed to the masses.
These are a few of the items in the general in
dictment:
The Revolutionary Fathers, when they wrote the
Declaration of Independence, itemized the charges
against King George, and made these charges as the
reason for the Revolution.
98 PLENOCRACY
The charges against King George
are mild, in comparison with the
charges against the present Economic
System.
They said that "All men are born free and equal,
and have the right to life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness." To secure these things, government
was organized, and when a government failed to se
cure these rights, or outraged them, then the people
had the right to overthrow that government, and
organize a new government.
The Revolutionary Fathers promptly proceeded to
do away with the tyrannical government of King
George, and establish a new government. The basis
of the conflict is changed.
Their fight was political; our fight is economic.
Theirs was against a tyrannical government; ours
is against an Economic System, which has grown
up in the field of government.
The Economic System of a nation is the dominant
power in that nation. It moulds and shapes all the
institutions in that nation into conformity with it
self. In other words, it becomes the supreme power;
it ascends the throne and government, religion,
philosophy, science, education, law and custom bow
before it, and are utilized by it, to do its will.
Everyone with an ounce of brains, knows that this
is true. If the Economic System in a nation is cor
rupt, it corrupts every institution in the nation.
If the system is based on exploitation, sooner or
later every other institution is contaminated by the
same spirit.
If it is based on fictitious values, in other words,
if it takes things of real value, and inflates them,
SETTING THE STAGE 97
and then declares that the inflation is something of
real value, every other institution must accept this
illusion for reality, or go out of business.
/ know that this condition ought not
to be. It certainly ought not to be; but,
it is. I am a realist. I am dealing with
the actual, not the ideal.
During the past fifty years, the prevailing Eco
nomic System, based upon inflation and exploitation,
has been on the throne of commanding power in the
United States. It has created the intellectual, the
emotional and the spiritual atmosphere in which we
live, move and have our being.
Surrounded by this atmosphere, it entered into
the general consciousness. We all became exploiters
and gamblers. Instead of co-operating for the com
mon good, we have exploited each other. All human
agencies, and all our institutions were made to min
ister to the prevailing spirit. Finally, the terrific
crash came; now we stand out in the savage atmos
phere. Some of us naked; millions in rags; millions
hungry. All of our false values gone up in smoke.
The stern laws of truth have brought
us face to face with reality, and this
will occur again, unless we adopt an
Economic System that is based on
reality, and organized in accordance
with Natural Law.
Man creates an Economic System in order to
satisfy his wants. He needs a certain amount of
food, fuel, shelter and clothing; and, in order to
obtain them, he is willing to work; but he wants
more than the bare needs of existence. He wants
better food, better clothing, better shelter. He wants
98 PLENOCRACY
leisure, recreation, education, companionship, health,
art, music, religion. He wants to unite with his fel
lows, and create a society, and he wants to help in
the promotion of the general welfare of society. He
knows that the general welfare of society is good
for him, as an individual.
We are all sick, tired, weary and disgusted with
the Old System, because it has failed to meet the
above conditions. We are ready for a New System.
The New System is already organized and in opera
tion. This system is The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan of The UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIA
TION.
To succeed and endure any Economic System
must conform to Natural Law. It must be an
interpretation of nature, and built on nature's model.
Nature is revelation, and science
reads the revelation, and tells us how
nature works, and explains her process
in "setting the stage" for Life Building,
Home Building and Nation Building.
Nature is perfection. Nature's ways of
doing things is truth, and it is by
knowing the truth and obeying its laws
that we become free.
In Nature's Plan, the economic comes first.
Man is a spirit, and has a body. The body is the
house for the real Man. This body is built out of
materials that come from this earth. This body
needs material-food, material-clothing, material-
shelter. These things come first. The mental and
spiritual needs come afterwards.
If you want to build a great thinker, you must
first give him a body, with a good brain. Your
SETTING THE STAGE 99
thinker cannot think great thoughts, with a weak
brain, and an impoverished blood-stream; so you
must supply the thinker with food. Your thinker
cannot function at his best, if he is naked, or in
rags. You must supply him with clothing, and a
house to live in. Your thinker cannot think beau
tiful thoughts if the landlord is hounding him for
the rent, and a score of bill-collectors are on his
track. A thinker—to do his work best—must be
economically free.
It is the height of folly to talk to a man about
"saving his soul", when he is hungry and in rags;
when he has no job and no food at home to feed
his family, and has received a five days' notice to
quit, because he has not been able to pay his rent.
It is stupid to tell him about the "Sweet Bye and
Bye," when he is confronted now with the terrible
now.
You can talk to him in eloquent language about
spiritual food; but that does not interest him. What
he wants is a good meal for himself and family.
You can tell him about "Mansions in Glory",
"Crowns of Gold" and a "City paved with Gold,"
awaiting him in the future. What does he care
about these things? What he wants is an oppor-
tunty to earn some money now to buy food, and pay
the rent.
"The Sweet Bye and Bye" ;
"Mansions in Glory";
"Rivers of Delight";
"Crowns of Glory";
"Jesus paid it All";
may be all right; but these words have no meaning
for the man, when he has no work; when he and
100 PLENOCRACY
his family are hungry and about to be thrown out
of his home. Give this man a job; so that he can
earn enough money to supply his needs, and that
of his family. Give him a measure of economic
freedom first.
After that he will listen attentively to you, when
you talk to him about "Saving his Soul."
Jesus never preached spiritual philosophy to a
hungry crowd. He fed them first, and then preached
to them.
We have been approaching the problem of "Human
Recovery" from the wrong angle. We have ap
proached it from the political angle. Politicians of
both parties have promised us everything:
"A full dinner pail,"
"Money in abundance,"
if we would vote them into office. We have discov
ered that all this is so much boloney. These periods
of depression come, no matter what party is in
power.
We have approached it from the "Religious
Angle ;" yet, after centuries of preaching the sublime
doctrines of spiritual religion, we have millions out
of work, with wide-spread misery and starvation.
It may be a fine thing indeed, to transform the
spirit and solve the problems of the Spiritual; but
that will not take care of the needs of the body, or
solve the problems of the Economic World.
We have approached it from the standpoint of
psychology in many forms, and through many cults.
The psychologist appears and tells us that "He has
discovered the secret of abundant supply." He
assures us that it is the secret. It is a magic formula
known to the ancients. He tells us that he has been
SETTING THE STAGE 101
commissioned to deliver this secret formula to
humanity for so much cash.
Millions of us poor dupes listened to his eloquent
discourses, joined his classes, paid the fee and got
nothing.
The Master Psychologist (like the stock gambler
and the inflationist) knew his crowd. He solved the
problem of "abundant supply" for himself, by ap
pealing to that desire that is in every one of us—
the desire to get money, without work.
How can you pull dollars out of the thin air by
affirmations? There is only one way to get real
wealth, i.e., "By the sweat of the face, shalt thou
eat bread." The psychologist, himself, had to think
and plan, and sweat, and work and expend energy
in preparing and delivering address after address,
before he succeeded in "taking the money out of our
pockets, and transferring it into his." I class this
type of psychologist with the high-pressure sales
man, the gambler and the inflationist. Like them,
he makes us believe that illusions are realities, and
sells them for cash.
These, gentlemen, are all natural products of the
Old System. The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan
approaches the problem of "human recovery" from
the natural and logical standpoint —the economic.
I have said that "this plan is natural." Now let
us see how nature works:
I have already touched on that, when I sketched
nature at work in "Setting the Stage" for human
advance. However, at this point, I desire to illus
trate, by an actual case, how nature works.
Science tells us that animals and birds are gov
erned in their actions by instinct ; they do not possess
102 PLENOCRACY
the power of reflection or reason. They do not have
to learn ; they know, and their knowledge is unerring.
It is instinctive knowledge. They grow out of
nature and —up to the measure of their capacity—
they are living expressions of "Nature" herself.
When we study the actions of animals or birds, we
are studying "Nature in Action."
As I sat in my study, looking out of my window
in the springtime, I watched two birds building a
nest in the fork of a tree, just within the range of
my vision. With marvellous skill and unerring wis
dom, they twisted pieces of slender roots, string,
leaves and twigs into a circular form —layer upon
layer,—until the rough externals of the nest was
completed; and while they were doing this, they
anchored it firmly to the fork in the tree. Then,
with pieces of soft down, cotton and light feathers,
they lined the nest within. When the nest was
finished, I looked at the marvellous piece of archi
tecture, and said : "This structure composed of twigs,
roots, strings and downy substances, is the economic
basis for something higher. It is the setting of the
stage for coming life."
These birds are Nature, herself, at work in a
limited area ; but it reveals her method in the wider
sweep of the Universe, as—down through the long
centuries, she prepared this earth for the various
forms of life, including man.
After a few days I saw four blue eggs in the
nest. I then said: "These eggs contain the future
life," and again, my mind swept back through the
long ages, to the time when the earth was cool
enough to receive the germs of life, from which man
evolved.
SETTING THE STAGE 108
In a few days more, the mother-bird brooded over
the eggs, imparting to the latent life within, the heat
of her own body, coaxing it into form, and giving
it strength to break the shell and emerge into a
new world.
As she sat there, day after day, in maternal antic
ipation, my mind went back over the long ages of
time, when Mother Nature brooded over the forms
of life, through which man was slowly emerging into
a larger life.
One day I looked out, and saw four tiny naked
birds, with wide-open yellow beaks, receiving their
due portion of the means of life from the parent
birds. Then I thought of the vast provisions Mother
Nature had furnished for the means of life for man
(enough for each; enough for all; enough for ever
more), and I thought of the millions that are out
of work, and the millions of children in human
families that are stunted and starved, amidst un
limited abundance.
Nature had given the mother bird instinct. The
instinct that instructs her to "take care of her
young" until they are strong enough to take care
of themselves; protect them from the fierce struggle
for existence, until they have reached the point in
their unfoldment when they can, successfully, engage
in the struggle for themselves. She does not drive
them out of the nest, and compel them to gather a
surplus of worms to sell to other birds; neither
does she hire them out to gather grubs. Her grand
purpose is "To develop a free, full, vigorous self-
reliant, self-equipped life" in each of the four. In
her, I can see "nature at work."
10u PLENOCRACY
Then I thought of what man (Lordly man, en
dowed with intellect) does with his children. He
allows millions of them to emerge into life through
slums and tenement houses; reeking with filth,
disease and vermin. Starves them, amidst abun
dance, and then he forces millions of these starved,
stunted, undeveloped children into mills and factor
ies, and compels them to work at low wages, to
create dividends for soulless corporations. What an
outrage on life, and a crime against nature.
I watched the four lusty youngsters grow. They
seemed to have a perpetual appetite. They were
always ready to eat. The supply was abundant.
They grew more beautiful as the days passed. The
ugly body soon vanished under a beautiful coat of
gleaming feathers. The ugly beak became firm and
well rounded. The wobbling legs became strong.
All the inherent powers of a splendid life were
brought forward on an even-breasted march.
Then, one day, they became of age; their inward
powers were unfolded to a point where they could
meet and master the external conditions that con
fronted them outside of the nest. They felt within
themselves "the power of self-determination", and
they decided to leave the nest. One by one, they
poised themselves on the edge of the nest, shook their
wings loose and, with a note of joy, rose into the
atmosphere and began a life of independence and
freedom. Back behind them were the broken shells,
the old nest and the forks of the tree. These con
stituted the economic base, and were the necessary
external accessories of the unfolding life. In them
selves, they had no value —save in the service they
rendered to life as it advanced to perfection.
SETTING THE STAGE 105
In this sketch, you see nature at work. To be
sure, it is only a small section of the great circle
of nature's operations; but, however, it is a minia
ture of the whole.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan,
in operation, complies in every particu
lar with "the way that nature expresses
herself through the birds." The nest
was the economic base for everything
that happened in the life of the birds.
It was built first.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is an economic
program for humanity. This is basic. It is the
natural starting point.
In building a house, you cannot start with the
roof; you must start and lay your foundations in
the earth.
A good question to ask ourselves is : "If everybody
were like me, what kind of a world would we have?"
Economic Plans express the character of the men
who formulate them. If a King formulated an
economic plan, he would provide for all the equip
ments of a kingly establishment. He would provide
for a Winter Palace and a Summer Palace. His
wardrobe would be rich in clothing, fitted for a King.
He would have a royal income, sufficient to employ
a retinue of servants. He would have stables. In
fact, he would have everything that wealth could
purchase, or power supply.
All this would be perfectly natural and in accord
ance with the "Law of Self Preservation."
History is replete with illustrations of how
Kings, in possession of autocratic power, provided
for themselves at the expense of the people. When
106 PLENOCRACY
the people became intelligent and began to think,
they came to the conclusion that what was good for
the King, would be good for them; so they over
threw their kings, and organized a System of Gov
ernment, giving themselves the power to rule.
Here is where they made a mistake;
they ought to have organized an Eco
nomic System, instead of a Political
System.
Give me the control of the Economic System of
a country, and I will control everything in that
country. Having control of the material supplies,
I can shut them off from one section, and turn them
on to another section. Having supreme control of
the "Means of Life", I can force the government
to do my bidding. I can buy up all the brains of
the nation, and make them think for me. I can
control the Judges, and their decisions will all be
in my power. I can control all the labor power of
the nation, and make it work for me. In fact, this
is what has been done in the United States. The
fellows who have nothing are powerless in the pres
ence of the fellows who have the control of the
"Means of Life."
With complete control of the "Means of Life," they
then advanced to capture complete control of power
in the "Political Realm." They possessed the wealth,
therefore they possessed the "power to capture
power." So, by the use of immense corruption funds
by bribe, intimidation, flattery and psychology, they
succeeded in electing men to Congress, the Senate,
State Legislature and City Councils, who represented
their interests, and had others who represented their
interests, appointed as Judges.
SETTING THE STAGE 107
To complete and perpetuate their conquest of
power, they selected bosses to keep these men in
line; with complete "economic and political power"
in their hands, they have perverted the whole ma
chinery of industry and government to their own
selfish ends.
All this is perfectly natural. We condemn the
men who built up this destructive structure; but,
instead of condemning them, we ought to be ashamed
of ourselves, for we created the conditions that made
this "control of power" possible.
If they used bribery, somebody must have taken
the bribe. If they purchased our votes, we must
have been ready to sell. If they used vast funds
to corrupt, we must have been willing to be cor
rupted. If they used intimidation, they used it on
cowards. If they employed flattery, we must have
supplied the lick-spittles. If they employed psychol
ogy, they used it on us, because we would not, or
could not think for ourselves.
To be sure, these usurpers of power are to blame ;
but the people who allowed them to usurp this power
are to blame, also. This complete mastery would
not last long, if the people would organize and act.
The people have the power, the
capacity and the means to end these
intolerable conditions.
The power is in numbers. The capac
ity is the ability to think, and the
means is The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan.
108 PLENOCRACY
In this rapid analysis of "How power was obtained
by the fellows who have," there is one idea that
stands out in amazing clearness:
These fellows who have, have shown
us who have not, how we can do for
ourselves what they have done for
themselves.
We can take over their system, wash it in antisep
tics, scour it so that all graft, corruption and infla
tion is removed from it; use it for the benefit of
the many. When this is done, we will have The
New Capitalism, or The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan.
This cannot be done in a day; it cannot be done
by violence. It can be done through a process of
education. The people must be taught; they must
engage in the business of mental house-cleaning.
All the old mental furniture must be removed from
the brains of the people, and the new mental fur
niture furnished by The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan must be put in its place.
I have attempted to show, in this chapter, that
man has had nothing to do with "The Setting of the
Stage" for new advances. It is his business to
adjust his plans to the new settings. When new
conditions are created, man must meet these new
conditions with new definitions, new systems and new
methods of operation.
At the present time, we are in a New Age. Our
Industrial and Political Leaders are not aware of
it, and they have been directing a Nineteenth Cen
tury Economic Machine, by the use of ideas and
formulaes of the Seventeenth Century.
SETTING THE STAGE 109
All our Political, Social and Economic formulaes
must be revised. They must be brought into intelli
gent relationships with the changed circumstances
of this "Age of Science."
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is an Economic
System that is adjusted to the demands of the
New Age.
Chapter Four
THE NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL
HOW
many of our political and industrial Leaders
understand that this so-called "depression" is
not a depression out of which we can rise to new
heights of prosperity; it is a dissolution; a dissolu
tion of the component parts of a system of exploita
tion, profit-taking and inflation, in preparation for
a New System that will fit the demands of the New
Age that is now dawning.
It is refreshing to find one man who has a clear
conception of what is happening ; that man is Henry
Ford. Henry Ford, because he has become prominent
and rich, must suffer the penalty. The man who
never does anything has no enemies. The man who
is dynamically active, arouses opposition and bitter
enmity.
They say that Henry Ford is ruthless. So is
nature; she wipes out the incompetent; destroys the
parasite ; has no mercy in the lazy ; discards the non-
producer; dismisses the inefficient. Nature does not
believe in charity; has no use for the dole. Charity,
in the long run, curses the giver and the receiver.
In the giver, it gratifies a false sense of benevolence.
In the receiver, it builds up a sense of helplessness,
which grows on what it feeds, until he becomes a
useless parasite.
Nature demands that every individual shall
develop the Power of Self-Determinafion ; use his
brains and become a producer. If a man will do
this, nature is his best friend; not through maudlin
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 111
sympathy, but because he has shown himself worthy.
Henry Ford, in himself, is the expression of this
law. The central spirit that pervades his vast work
shops, is the same spirit that pervades the realms
of nature. Henry Ford is against laziness, para
sitism, incompetency and inefficiency. He has no use
for these negative elements; on the other hand, he
will (at all times, and under all circumstances)
reward the competent, and pay the producer. So
when Henry Ford walks into a department in his
great factories, and instantly fires the Manager and
all the employees, he has a reason for it. The depart
ment is inefficient, and he must get rid of the incom
petent, to get ready for a new manager and workmen.
Nature does the same thing. She does it with gov
ernments, religions, social structures, economic sys
tems and individuals. When they become useless,
when they become wasters, when they want to live
without work, when they become parasites, when
they become leeches (sucking away the life-blood of
the honest toiler) , then nature gets into quick action,
and they are ruthlessly swept away, to prepare the
way for something constructive.
Henry Ford (in a great interview in the Pictorial
Review for October, 1932) says "This is the ending
of an Era ; what has happened is this : The thing that
should have served life was compelling life to serve
it, and life threw it out. As long as an Economic
System helps life, it is permitted to exist; when it
begins to cramp and hamper life, it is discarded.
An Economic System that has served mankind badly,
is foredoomed. It is not man's wisdom that has chal
lenged; but the Laws of Nature."
112 PLENUCRACY
In these sharp, clean-cut dynamic sentences, Mr.
Ford sweeps away all mystery, and declares that
the forces that are destroying the Old Capitalism,
are the forces of nature, and that this Old System
is being destroyed, because it has ceased to serve
"life".
But Mr. Ford continued: "The debt-industry and
money-lending industry have presumed to control all
our industries, and, inasmuch as money is a dead
thing, and production a living thing, the revolt of
the living thing was inevitable. Money, alone, has
no power to start productive activity, and no power
to stop it. The entire authority is vested in life,
and we do not yet know how comely, how creative
and self-reliant our life can be, when it is in full
and free exercise of its authority."
In this paragraph, Mr. Ford intimates that, since
"money" in itself is a dead thing, and since money
lenders, themselves, are non-producers, and deal with
a dead thing, when they gained control of agriculture
and industry all the creative activities of "Life"
were slowly paralyzed.
How profoundly true this is. The Money-Lenders
have paralyzed the creative activities of the farmers
and business men, everywhere. He enunciates an
other great idea when he says: "Too often a pros
perous bank means a mortgaged community." A
bank, in itself, is a place where dead money is
piled up and, apart from the creative action of life,
its influence upon the "Life" of the Community
where it is located is paralyzing the idea that Mr.
Ford has in mind, i.e. , Any financial institution that
does not create real "wealth," must manipulate real
wealth and inflate it, to live. To use his own lan
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 118
guage, it must jam the natural thing into an arti
ficial pattern.
Mr. Ford suggests that nature won't stand for
this. Finding herself cramped, she will smash the
artificial system into fragments, and that is just what
is now going on. Tens of thousands of banks, gone
up in smoke. Nature is destroying the artificial, to
prepare for the natural. A bank is not a natural
creation; it is a man-made institution. It is one of
the by-products of the "Old Capitalism". Mr. Ford,
in his analysis, says: "That it is a waste of time to
denounce banks and stock exchanges for their sins.
They are merely straws on the current of the River
of Profits. They are symptoms, and not the disease."
The real trouble lies deeper. We
have been trying to jam the natural
thing into an artificial pattern.
Nature, finding herself cramped, smashes the arti
ficial system into fragments, in order to obtain
freedom.
How stupid it is to crowd the natural, real values
of a good farm and its products into an artificial
man-made pattern. He says : "There is nothing more
enduring than the land. It never flees to cover like
gold. It never loses its inherent value, like stocks.
It never evaporates like savings. The land is always
there. A bushel of wheat is always good for so
many loaves of bread." A bushel of wheat turned
into bread, when eaten, supplies a certain amount
of energy; this amount of energy is the real wealth
in the bushel of wheat. The value of this "Real
Wealth" never changes. This value is natural value.
However, when this natural thing is taken over
by the agents of the "Old Capitalism" in Wall Street
1U PLENOCRACY
and other centers of exchange, they manipulate it,
inflate it and deflate it. They force this natural
thing into artificial patterns ; not for the purposes of
use, but to create "profit." Mr. Ford says that this
is a violation of Natural Law, and cannot continue.
A good farm, scientifically cultivated with its
crops, orchards and vineyards, with its herds of con
tented cows in rich pastures, its comfortable home
and barns, is a magnificent "Natural Phenomena."
It is a "Natural Law" in full, free easy expression.
A wise teacher, who used to walk in the fields, and
watch the growing crops, said: "Consider the Lilies
how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin;
yet I say unto you that Solomon, in all his glory,
was not arrayed like one of these." This is a beau
tiful illustration of the operation of "Natural Law",
without strain, stress, hurry or worry. The lilies
grow into perfection of beauty. Why? Because they
are in the midst of the "stream of life". The great
Sun, with his life-giving energy; the great Earth,
full of productivity; the rains, the dews, the steady-
balanced movements of all the great factors in the
Solar System, co-operate with the "lilies of the field"
as they grow, furnishing them in abundance with
all that they need as they unfold into beauty and use.
Nature, in her operations on the farm, creates
crops for use, and not for profit.
The "Old Capitalism" is an artificial system man-
made. The aim of the constructors of this artificial
system is "to divert the natural stream of wealth
into this artificial system, for profit for themselves."
On all sides, we can see the destructive conse
quences of this perversion.
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 115
The Creative Energy of "The Stream of Life"
has been thrown out of its natural, broad channels
of use into the narrow, sordid channel of profit. Our
Religious, our Political, our Industrial Institutions,
are all largely artificial, and "The Stream of Human
Life"—thought and action—as it flows through
these institutions, is perverted from its natural pur
pose. The results cannot be anything else but
destructive. In fact as Mr. Ford says in his analysis
—"The warning is as plain as events can make it
—the most gigantic efforts to restore the Old System
utterly fail, one after another. Everything is chang
ing. It is possible to continue prosperity. Indeed,
it is the only thing that can continue ; but it is impos
sible to continue the false prosperity in which we
were living. It was unnatural. It was set and dead.
There is no permanence, save in change. We thought
that we could fix things up, and make a false method
of creating prosperity permanently, which is against
every principle of life; so life revolted."
An analysis of the conditions of our times involves
certain ideas:
1st—There is, in this Universe, a
supreme, all pervading, dominant en
ergy. This energy is called Nature or
Life.
2nd —This energy expresses itself in
different forms: The Material, the
Mental, the Emotional and Spiritual.
The material is the economic, that
deals with the supply of the means of
life.
The mental is the intellectual, which
deals with all matters of mental action;
116 PLENOCRACY
this might include government, for
government is supposed to furnish
directive intelligence.
The emotional deals with art, music,
painting, poetry and all matters where
the emotions are mainly concerned.
The spiritual deals with religion in
all its forms of expression. None of
these forms of expression act alone;
they cannot be separated into distinct
divisions; they blend into each other.
They are the component parts of a liv
ing Stream, which is ever seeking a
wider course for wider expression.
In this discussion we are concerned, mainly, with
the economic form of expression. The body must
be supplied with the means of life, food, fuel, cloth
ing and shelter. If these are not supplied, intellec
tual power, artistic ability or religious devotion is
impossible.
3rd—This energy has a natural way
of expressing itself; this natural way
is "Natural Law."
Uth—When this energy is allowed to
express itself naturally, whatever it
creates in the material, mental, emo
tional or spiritual is for use and serv
ice.
5th—Instead of adjusting ourselves
and our systems to the natural Laws,
through which this energy expresses
itself, we have constructed man-made,
artificial systems, and tried to make
this energy work through these sys-
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 117
terns to create profit and power for the
few to exploit the many, for the bene
fit of a few.
6th—This energy will not be per
verted. It refuses to allow itself to be
diverted from carrying out the law of
its own nature; consequently, it has
blown up all these man-made, artificial
systems, and will continue to blow them
up.
7th —The present complete, world
wide collapse of these artificial "sys
tems" should show us clearly that we
must fall into step with this energy and
adjust ourselves, and our plans to the
way it works.
This energy working in a realm where no human
interference is possible, is now setting the stage for
a new advance. A New Day has dawned, and we
must have New Systems to meet the demands of a
New Age.
Surely, there is no one bold enough to attempt
to set up a defense for the "Old Capitalism". We
know that this system is the cause of all our trouble.
We know that it was the cause of the World War.
An Economic System, organized for profit, must
result in war between the Nations who use the sys
tem. If the Economic System in England, France,
Germany, Italy and America had been organized to
produce wealth for use and service, there would have
been no incentive to foment war.
The huge defense mechanisms of the Capitalistic
Nations, their armies and navies with the ever-
increasing burden of taxation, weighing the people
118 PLENOCRACY
of these nations down to the earth, destroying their
creative ability, can all be traced to a defective
Economic System.
The increasing expense of government, which now
takes 40 cents of every dollar the individual earns,
can be traced to the same cause.
What a tragic spectacle we behold in all Capitalis
tic Countries to-day. The Old Capitalistic System
in possession of all the machinery of creating wealth
in abundance, dying in the universal wreck that it
wrought: Three-hundred millions out of work in the
Capitalistic world. Eleven-million of these in the
United States, and the numbers are increasing.
The creators and beneficiaries of this old system
are dying with it; some are struck with paralysis;
others blow out their brains with a gun; others
drown themselves; others take poison; others take
gas; some jump out of windows. If these persons
who committed suicide had understood the difference
between real values and false values, they would still
be alive. Since the "Old Capitalism" created these
false values, the death of these good folks must be
laid at the door of this old system.
No one to-day dares to openly defend or ask for
the continuance of a system that has wrought such
destruction; but one of the strongest indictments
that can be drawn against this discredited old system
is that it has poisoned and perverted every other
human institution.
The economic system that prevails at any stage in
human history becomes the commanding factor in
that stage; in fact, it furnishes the model on which
Government, Religion, Philosophy, Education and
every other Institution is built.
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 119
The men who construct and own the economic sys
tem of a country, automatically own and control all
forms of human expression. If the economic system
is built to produce wealth for profit, instead of for.
"use" and "service", every other institution will be
more or less influenced by the same spirit.
If I was a dictator, and owned and controlled "the
means of life" in a country, I would be in a position
to force all men to do my will. The Preacher, The
Professor, The Editor, the Senator, the Judge, The
President, must do as I tell them to do, or they will
lose their jobs.
If the "Economic System" that I build and own
is built to create profit and exploit life, I will punish
any man who opposes me or my system, by depriv
ing them of the means of life.
The "Old Capitalism" is owned and controlled by
the few, and it was built to amass profit and exploit
life. Every other institution amongst us, even the
holiest (which is religion) must dance to its music,
or go out of business altogether ; in fact, the greatest
crime that this old system has perpetrated is the
suppression of truth. The function of a Newspaper
is to disseminate the truth.
Upton Sinclair said, in "The Brass Check", "If
the Newspapers of America were to print the truth
for ten days ; the truth about poverty and the causes
of poverty; the truth about corruption in politics
and in all branches of government, in journalism,
and throughout the business-world; the truth about
profiteering and exploitation, about the banking
graft; above all, the truth about the possibilities of
production by modern machinery, the fact that by
abolishing production for profit, and substituting
120 PLENOCRACY
production for use, it would be possible to provide
abundance for all, by two or three hours' work a day."
"I say that, if all this legitimate truth could be
placed before the American people, for ten successive
days, instead of the mass of triviality, scandal, crime
and sensation, doctored news and political dope,
prejudiced editorials and sordid, vulgar advertise
ments, upon which the American people are now fed ;
I say that the world would be transformed and Indus
trial Democracy would be safe."
The Newspaper Editor must sur
render his independence, his brains and
his ability to the system that controls
the "means of life." He must become a
defender and supporter of "The Sys
tem" to live. The same is true of the
professor in the University. He must
yield complete allegiance to the powers
that control and distribute "The Means
of Life" or starve.
The Preacher in the pulpit is not free to give
expression to the untarnished truth of Christianity.
He is compelled to modify and change these Eternal
Truths into conformity with the false formulaes of
the "Old Capitalism" ; or he won't get any salary.
The Philosopher who is trying to get a clear view
of man's relationships to the Universe is not allowed
to publish the results of his thinking. It would
destroy the old system.
The conclusions of the clear-thinking Scientist are
shelved or garbled; in fact, all the streams of the
purest, highest and cleanest thought and information
are shut off at their source, or poisoned as they
flow, by the "Old Capitalism," because this old system
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 121
suppresses and perverts the truth; it stands before
the bar of human justice, condemned; no one has
the temerity to act as attorney for the defense.
The old system has been charged with the destruction
of material values. This is bad, but it has also
destroyed moral and spiritual values, which is a thou
sand times worse. It has ruthlessly robbed the
Editor, the Professor, the Teacher, the Philosopher,
the Scientist, the Preacher and the Seer of the
privilege of declaring the truth. It has forced them
against their will, to pervert the truth.
Instead of consulting with these creative thinkers,
it has called into its councils the exploiter, the profit
taker, the usury monger, the inflationist, the non-
producer, the log-roller, the lobbyist and the grafter.
Thomas Carlyle once said, in regard to the English
Parliament, "Given a company of knaves, how can
you expect honesty from their united action." So,
in regard to the "Old Capitalism," when you con
sider the character of the crowd that created it, it
could not be anything else but a "System of Graft
and Corruption."
I have said that "Its worst crime is that it has
destroyed moral and spiritual values. That the
economic system it has organized is directly opposed
to the best, highest, cleanest and noblest thought in
man. It has created a vehicle, through which the
lowest and most brutalizing elements in man, are
brought into action."
Any Economic System that represses the highest
"elements in humanity" and fosters the lowest, and
brings them into expression, ought to be abolished
forever. To my mind, the highest, cleanest and
noblest body of thought in existence to-day is that
122 PLENOCRACY
contained in the teachings of Jesus. The Philosophy
of Life that he has set forth is recognized as superior
to anything that can be found amongst men.
In this statement, I am referring to "untarnished
Christianity." There is a vast and far-reaching dif
ference between what the Theologians say that Christ
said, and what He said. Theology is a mass of con
flicting opinions. Christianity is a statement of har
monious principles. Conflicting theological creeds
have filled the Centuries with war, and divided the
Christian World into hundreds of sects, who refuse
to co-operate.
Genuine Christianity creates peace, and would
unite humanity into one great co-operative common
wealth.
The "Old Capitalism", in every century, has op
posed and perverted genuine Christianity, and forced
the Preachers to give the masses of the people spuri
ous substitutes. Its representatives, in the past, have
persecuted, jailed and murdered the Ministers of the
Gospel, who dared to preach real Christianity. The
representatives of the "Old Capitalism", some two-
thousand years ago, murdered Jesus, and their
descendants in office have crucified Him in the person
of exploited victims, all through history, down to the
present.
Jesus was a clean-cut, powerful, natural living,
dynamic man. There was nothing effeminate, sissy,
weak or artificial about Him. He was not a lazy,
idle dreamer. He aimed to organize the masses of
the disinherited into a great commonwealth; based
upon profound Spiritual Laws. He called it a king
dom. "A kingdom" means a community of people
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 128
operating under law. This Kingdom, He called "The
Kingdom of God."
A careful study of what He taught, shows that the
God He believed in was "A God of truth, justice,
equity, love, unity, fellowship, harmony, co-operation
and service." A commonwealth organized under
these principles, would have a system of creating
and distributing wealth for use and service for the
many; not profit for the few.
He said: "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and
His righteousness, and all these things will be added."
In other words, organize yourselves into a Commun
ity where all that God and His Laws represent will
be carried out, and you will always have abundance.
Apart from the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan,
there is no instance in human history where an
Economic System was organized to produce wealth
for "use" and "service" to the many.
In all Capitalistic Nations, the Economic Systems
that prevail are all organized by the few, and are
designed to amass profit for the few, by the exploita
tion of the many.
Cannibalism was an Economic System. An Eco
nomic System is organized to supply the "means of
life." Under Cannibalism, the exploitation of life
was direct. Under Capitalism, it is indirect. The
big strong chief and his associates in the days of
Cannibalism, boiled and ate the members of the
Weaker Tribes that they had conquered in battle.
The choicest and tenderest parts were always re
served for the big chief; but to retain his power,
the big chief would let his friends in on these choice
cuts.
PLENOCRACY
Following Cannibalism, came slavery. The Roman
form of civilization, as a republic, and afterwards
an empire, was based on slavery. The Economic
System was conditioned on the exploitation of the
lives of millions of slaves, to create wealth for the
few. The big boss was the Emperor. He was looked
upon, and worshiped as a God. His statue carved in
stone, was enthroned in every temple. The people,
steeped in ignorance, accepted this lie for the truth.
With this belief in the minds of the people, the entire
structure of Roman civilization was built. The
Emperor owned everything. His commands were
the decrees of God. It was considered an honor to
die at his request. The people thought that they
were doing God's will, when they kept the Emperor
up in barbaric splendour. So the people slaved in
the fields and at the galley to create wealth for the
Emperor and his rich associates, the patricians.
So you can see the Economic System of this so-
called civilization was organized on the "exploitation
of the life of the many, to create wealth for the few."
Such a system could not last. The Laws of Life,
which are the Laws of the Universe, were against
it; so the entire structure was destroyed in wide
spread ruin.
One would imagine that "the wrecking of the
Roman Empire," because it was built on the exploita
tion of life, would teach our present leaders a lesson ;
but they either will not learn, or are incapable of
being instructed.
After the Roman Empire came Feudalism. Under
this system, the Big Boss was the Feudal Lord. He
was the Big Organizer, and he saw to it that he and
his Knights were well provided for; but it was the
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 125
same old system, in a different form. The common
people were kept in ignorance.
In fact, the ignorance of the people
is the basis on which every economic
system of exploitation is built.
The people were taught that the King or Lord
was the representative of God, Himself. The masses
were serfs, and were attached to the soil, and bought
and sold with it. The Feudal Lord lived in a great
castle, high up in the rocks, amidst natural barriers,
or down on the plains, surrounded by a deep ditch,
filled with water, over which were draw-bridges con
nected with the entrance gates; these draw-bridges
were raised up at night. This Feudal Lord or Baron,
owned land in big acreages. The serfs cultivated
this land. He had his associates, called Knights.
These old boys were common robbers. They used to
way-lay the defenseless traveller, and rob him of
everything. They were also cattle thieves. They
would make raids on the lands of the neighboring
Barons at night, and steal their cattle.
Those who had their castles on the borders of the
sea became pirates on the sea, and cattle thieves on
the land. The most powerful of these old pirates
and cattle thieves were the progenitors of all the
royal families of Europe ; the Hapsburgs, the Hohen-
zollerns, the Bourbons, the Romanoffs, the Stewarts,
etc. All the land of Europe was owned by these
Feudal Lords, and cultivated by the ignorant serfs.
The entire Economic System was organized by the
few to create wealth for themselves, by the exploita
tion of the many. The machine introduced the "Old
Capitalism."
126 PLENOCRACY
I can see no difference in the spirit and method
of the Old Capitalism, and the Economic Systems
that preceded it. Its spirit is the same; its motive
is the same; its methods are the same; its results
are the same. In fact, it is the same. But, just as
the Roman Empire passed away, and Feudalism
passed away; so the "Old Capitalism" is passing
away, never to return.
A new Economic System is now in operation. The
UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, or the "New Capital
ism", organized by the people, themselves, to create
wealth for use, not for profit but for the benefit
of all.
The New System will operate in the new thought
atmosphere of the New Age that is now dawning.
The essential principles will harmonize with the
demands of the new order.
After a careful reading of this, it can be clearly
seen that the worst effect of the Old Economic System
is the stunting of human character. So I am closing
this chapter with Edwin Markham's poem on
"The Man With The Hoe"
Bowed by the weight of centuries, he leans
Upon his hoe, and gazes on the ground;
The emptiness of ages on his face,
And on his back, the burden of the world.
Who made him dead to rapture and despair?
A thing that grieves not, and that never hopes,
Stolid and stunned a brother to the ox,
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw.
NATURAL AND THE ARTIFICIAL 127
Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow,
Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
Is this the thing the Lord God made and gave,
To have dominion over Sea and Land;
To trace the Stars and Search the Heavens for power;
To feel the passion of Eternity?
Is this the dream he dreamed, who shaped the Suns
And marked their ways upon the ancient deep.
Down all the stretch of hell to its last gulf,
There is no shape more terrible than this.
More tongued with censure of the world's blind greed;
More filled with signs and patents for the Soul;
More fraught with danger to the Universe?
What gulfs between him and the Seraphim,
Slave of the wheel of labor. What to him
Are Plato and the Swing of Pleades.
What the long reaches of the peaks of Song,
The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose
Through this dread shape, the suffering ages look;
Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop,
Through this dread shape, humanity betrayed,
Plundered, profaned and disinherited;
Cries protest to the Judges of the world
A protest that is also a prophecy.
Oh Masters! Lords! and Rulers! in all lands,
Is this the handiwork you gave to God?
This monstrous thing, distorted and Soul-Quenched,
How will you ever straighten up this shape?
Touch it again with immortality;
Give back the upward looking and the light;
Rebuild in it the music and the dream
Make right the immemorial infamies;
Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes.
PLENOCRACY
Oh Masters! Lords! and Rulers! in all lands,
How will the future reckon with this man?
How answer his brute question in that hour,
When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world?
How will it be with Kingdoms and with Kings,
With those who shaped him to the thing he is?
When this dumb terror shall reply to God,
After the silence of the Centuries.
Chapter Five
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION
IN
PLENOCRACY, every man, up to the measure
of his ability, becomes a capitalist.
A "Capitalist" is a man ivho owns
and controls two things: First, A source
of wealth; and Second, The energy
necessary to bring this wealth into
usable form.
Under the regime of the "Old Capitalism", the
sources of all wealth and the energy necessary to
bring this wealth into expression and use, is in the
hands of a few; and it is natural that these few
should use this tremendous power for their own
advantage.
Wealth is something that can be used in sustain
ing Life. All man's activities in the realm of agri
culture and manufacturing deal with one thing: The
creation of goods. They are called "goods," because
they are good for us. They are called "wealth,"
because they are for our well being.
The "Old Capitalism," through its control of har
nessed energy, equal to the power of millions of men,
can and has produced vast quantities of goods; but
millions are starving, amidst plenty. Why is this?
It is because these goods have been produced for
profit, and not for use. They have been produced
to pay big dividends, and huge salaries, and not to
render service.
The few who control the "Sources of Wealth" and
130 PLENOCRACY
the energy necessary to bring this wealth into expres
sion and use, seemed to be animated by one dominant,
all-mastering desire; the desire to amass immense
wealth quickly for themselves. So they inflated the
stock of their corporations; inflated the value of the
goods produced; inflated money, the medium of ex
change. Ninety per cent of the values was nothing
but inflation. The inflated skin could not stand the
pressure; it burst; all false values evaporated. We
thought that we were prosperous, but 90 % of it was
bunk. We thought that we were all millionaires ; but
90% of it was nothing but cheap paper certificates.
So we have an abundance of goods
—real goods, —and millions need these
goods; but they have no real "money"
to purchase these goods. Where has
the money gone?
A few years ago, we all had plenty of money; but
it vanished over night. I have just stated that 90%
of the stuff that we thought was money was nothing
but inflation. When the explosion came, and the air
escaped, the fellow that had a million, only had
$10,000, and his debts were $100,000. Yesterday,
he had a million; to-day he has nothing —head over
heels in debt, and no job.
The "Old Capitalism" has destroyed itself. If the
Old Capitalism had obeyed the Laws of Reality; if
it had used its power to create real wealth, by the
application of energy to the earth; if it had created
this wealth for use, instead of profit; created it for
the use of many, instead of the few, it would still
be functioning, and the strange paradox that we see
to-day "of millions starving amidst plenty," would
be impossible.
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION 181
Now, if you devise a plan, whereby
every man would — FIRST, own and
control enough of the sources of
"wealth"; and SECOND, own and con
trol enough of the "energy" necessary
to bring this "wealth" into expression
and use; so as to amply provide for
himself and family; such a plan would
be worth considering. Because it would
solve the problems of the individual;
with the individual's problems solved,
all the other problems are easy.
This is the idea underlying the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan. We give every man who wants it,
"Ownership and Control" of enough of the sources
of wealth and the energy necessary, to bring it into
expression and use, so as to amply provide for him
self and those dependent upon him.
This is the essence of PLENOCRACY. How is
this accomplished? There are three factors in the
method :
The Service Agency,
The Universal Service Association and
The Universal Service Plan.
These three factors are the essential parts of a scien
tific co-operative method, based upon the Natural
Law of Relationships.
It is of extreme importance to remember that the
founder of this plan recognized that he could not
improve on the Laws of Relationships that already
exist in the nature of man; so he constructed the
plan in accordance with the laws already in opera
tion.
132 PLENOCRACY
The entire plan is organized on the principle of
self-determination and self-interest. The founder,
being a Natural Scientist, saw clearly that the pros
perity of the individual is the result of the prosperity
of the whole community.
The organizers of the "Old Capitalism" did not,
or would not recognize this principle. They built
this Old System on the idea that the few become
prosperous, at the expense of the many. This is a
destructive idea. The few, for a time, may be pros
perous, but in the long run, they lose their pros
perity, and destroy themselves.
The founder of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan
saw clearly that this great Natural Law, which is
"surrender to obtain," runs through all nature's
operations. If I want to become strong, I will obtain
strength by lifting somebody up. If I want to be
come wise, I will obtain wisdom by teaching the
ignorant. If I want to be happy, I will obtain hap
piness by making the other fellow happy. If I want
to become prosperous, I will obtain prosperity by
helping to make the other fellow prosperous.
All good things come to us as the result of obeying
this law ; this is the Law of Indirectness. Good things
will not come to us, if we go out and try to get them
for ourselves directly ; but they do come to us, if we
go out and help the other fellow to get them.
In the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION,
each member works in accordance with this Law.
The founders and organizers of the "Old Capi
talism" laughed at this principle, flouted it and held
it in derision, and they constructed their system on
the opposite idea. The terrific penalty has been im
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION 133
posed. They, themselves, have gone down in destruc
tion with their victims.
In ancient times, when a murder was committed,
and the murderer discovered, the penalty imposed
was that "the body of the victim was strapped to
the body of the murderer." As the body of the vic
tim decayed, it carried death to the murderer. This
practice was the recognition of the principle that
"all life is connected." If I live by killing others, I
will be killed myself. "He that taketh the sword
shall perish with the sword."
The bodies of its victims are strapped to the "Old
Capitalism" with invisible bands, and they go down
to the grave together.
As I said before, the principle on which the UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan is built is the opposite of
this. We live to help each other to live. We think
to help each other to think. We co-operate to bene
fit each other. Everything is constructive, helpful,
uplifting, cheerful, inspiring and prosperous.
The Service Agency is composed of men who are
the living, breathing embodiments of this principle.
It is an integral part of themselves; in fact, it is
themselves. This Agency is organized to serve.
Every penny of its capital is used to render service
to the members. The brains, the intelligence and
the accumulated experience of the men who compose
the Agency is at the service of the members. The
Agency takes no part of the increase, until after the
members have received 30%.
The "Old Capitalism" organized on the principle
of exploitation, runs true to its form and motive;
it grabs all the profit.
134. PLENOCRACY
In the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, we go
further than mere justice. Justice is equity. Justice
is limited, cold; it implies duty. Justice has the
idea of being compelled to do a thing, because it is
the law. It conveys the idea that, if there was no
law to compel us to do something, we would not do it.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is built on the
idea of free, natural, spontaneous action. There is
no attempt to force a man to join. He must join
of his own free will and accord. There is no attempt
to ask him to sign a contract. There are no con
tracts to sign.
If you have to compel a man to do a thing by a
binding contract; this shows that you have no faith
in your man. If your organization is built on the
Law of Natural Relationships, you will need no
contract.
This plan is built on the Natural Law; therefore,
the action of the Agency, the action of the member
and that of the association is all "Free," "Natural,"
"Spontaneous," "Joyous," because the Agency and
the Association have joined hands and hearts in the
harmonious march to prosperity.
In the practical working out of the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan, the founder recognized and put into
operation, another great Natural Law; that law is
that "the source of all real wealth is the earth," and
to get real wealth; energy and intelligence must be
applied to the earth.
This Natural Law is harnessed up in the UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan; the Service Agency and
the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION co
operate in utilizing this law to create, perpetuate and
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION 185
increase the volume of wealth for the members of
the Association.
Potential wealth in unlimited quantities resides
in the earth. Infinite Energy exists in the Sun. Sir
James Jeans says in his Book, "The Universe
Around Us,"
"Instead of thinking of the Sun as an accumula
tion of atoms, let us think of it as a vast storehouse
of bottles of energy, which have been in storage for
millions and millions of years. So enormous is the
Sun's supply of these bottles, and so great is the
amount of energy stored in each bottle that, after
radiating light and heat for seven or eight million,
million years, there is still enough left to provide
light and heat for millions of millions of years to
come."
The Sun is pouring out 250 million tons of energy
every minute; or 360,000 million tons a day. The
earth receives a certain portion of this energy.
Without the energy of the Sun, the earth would be
a cold, dark, dead planet.
The earth revolves around the Sun once in a year,
and the poles are at an angle of 23 Degrees to
the plane of her 'Orbit; this declination causes the
seasons, and brings to both hemispheres spring, sum
mer, autumn and winter, in regular succession. She
also revolves on her axis once in every twenty-four
hours, causing a day and night.
Man has nothing to do with these great move
ments. One of the results of these movements is
"the production of crops." The earth is the Great
Mother. Vast quantities of potential wealth lie in
her womb. The Sun is the Great Father. Immense
quantities of potential energy is in the Sun. It is
136 PLENOCRACY
through the application of the Sun's energy to the
earth that crops are produced.
Here in this arrangement is an "Economic System"
beyond the reach of human interference. Whether
this is the result of design or otherwise, is not the
question. We know that, in this arrangement, we
have provisions for unlimited abundance, to supply
the "means of life" for man, for millions of years
to come. The storehouses in Mother Earth are full
of potential wealth. The energy in the Sun is bound
less; so there is no reason for famine or depression.
As Mother Earth revolves around the Sun, and
on her axis, every square foot of her productive
surface receives the energy of the Sun. The result
is seen in the forests, orchards, vineyards and crops.
The vast resources that lie in the cellars of the
earth (coal, minerals, ore and gas) and the re
sources that lie in the productive power of the
soil, when brought into expression and use, consti
tute "real wealth."
Old Mother Earth, co-operating with the Sun,
works every day in the year, and every minute in
the day. She is turning out all kinds of goods. The
Tropics, the Temperate Zones and the Arctics all
contribute. As she revolves, she pours forth fruits
of all kinds; nuts of every variety, grain of every
description and root crops of every shape. All she
requires of man is that he use his brains and apply
his energy to the soil, and she will respond hand
somely and constantly. With the crude methods now
employed by the farmer, Mother Earth furnished
sixteen billion dollars worth of wealth in America
alone, in one year's time. This yield could be
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION 137
increased ten times, if scientific and intensive farm
ing methods are used.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan links up each
member with the revolving earth and the energy-
giving Sun. In fact, it puts him right into the vast
stream of wealth that flows from the earth. This
"wealth" is a constantly flowing stream.
The factors that create this "constantly flow
ing stream of living wealth" are a Trinity.
The Sun, the Earth and man. Man's contribution
is negligible; yet it is of great importance. The
energy that man supplies is furnished him by his
two powerful partners.
The assets of this company are immeasurable and
inexhaustable. They cannot be put into figures.
There is no inflation in these assets. They are real,
substantial, eternal and constantly flowing in an
inexhaustible stream of supplies.
This company has been in business for many mil
lions of years. It is as old as eternity, itself, and
will continue for countless millions of years to come.
Each member of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE
ASSOCIATION is linked up with this great company,
and up to the measure of his contribution, becomes
a participator in the wealth produced.
The money that the member contributes each
month is not put into any human institution like a
bank or an insurance company. It is not put into
bonds, stocks, debentures or mortgages. The insti
tutions that deal with these things are man-made,
artificial and, in the last analysis, fictitious. These
institutions are the products of the "Old Capitalism."
The member's money is put into the earth imme
138 PLENOCRACY
diately. It may not be much, only a dollar a month,
but it makes no difference. This dollar begins to
move, it flows in the stream of production with the
dollars of the other members. The stream is living.
It is energized by the Sun, and fructified by the earth,
and the stream is constantly increasing. The 30%
increase is guaranteed by the limitless energy of the
Sun, and the productivity of the earth. So long as
the Sun shines, and the earth revolves, the members'
money is safe, and the increase is assured.
So then, in Unking the member up
with the earth and the Sun as they
create wealth, he becomes a capitalist,
because he is in a position where he
owns and controls enough of the
"sources of wealth," and enough of the
energy necessary to bring it into
expression and use.
In this "linking up process," the member does his
own thinking and, therefore, does his own linking.
No one tries to influence him against his own judg
ment. No high-pressure methods are employed.
The Service Agency becomes the representative,
to render the service referred to. The member
employs the Service Agency. The Service Agency
leases land all over the United States, with the option
of purchase at the end of five years.
By intensive, scientific methods, the Agency makes
the land pay for itself in five years. The member
stipulates, when he employs the Agency, that the
Agency shall get the balance of the increase after
he has received 30% in any one year; or 150% in
five years.
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION 139
The member can, if he so desires
instead of taking the 150%, plus the
money he has paid in, have a farm in
a high state of cultivation, worth two
and one-half times the amount of the
purchase price.
It can be clearly seen that the business methods
of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, are just the
opposite of the methods employed by the "Old Capi
talism." The Old Capitalism was the result of the
ownership control, and centralization of energy. This
was brought about by the invention of the steam
engine. The steam engine was not the result of con
scious planning; it was the result of an accident.
A man by the name of "Papin" was anxious to create
a vacuum. A vacuum is space, with nothing in it.
So this man built a cylinder, and put a close-fitting
piston in it; then he put water in the cylinder and
heated it from the outside. The water became steam ;
the expanding steam lifted the piston. When the
cylinder cooled, a vacuum was created, the piston
dropped in the vacuum. From these experiments,
the steam engine was developed, and it was first
used to pump water out of coal mines.
The energy locked up in coal is transformed into
power, through the steam engine. Coal is condensed
"Solar Energy."
Many millions of years ago, the earth's tempera
ture was moist and warm; suitable for the growth
of great forests and tropical vegetation. These trees
and heavy vegetation drank in the energy of the
Sun. Vast expanses of the earth's surface was cov
ered with these trees, and dense tropical vegetation.
They grew and died through many long centuries,
no PLENOCRACY
piling up vast layers of condensed sunlight. Then
came a mighty convulsion. These layers were buried
beneath tons of rock ; then heat was applied. Through
the action of heat and pressure, the coal beds were
formed.
When the first white man set foot upon the shores
of America, the U. S. Geological Survey tells us that
there were 3,541,000,000,000 tons of coal locked up
in the coal beds of this country. Of this huge estate,
we have used, to date, only 25,000,000,000 tons, and
we are mining it at the rate of 600,000,000 tons a
year. So we have scarcely scratched the surface.
Coal furnishes light, heat and power. A steam
engine is harnessed "Solar Energy." When the
steam engine was invented, it was put into action
close to the coal mines. This centralization of power
became the womb out of which the "Old Capitalism"
was born.
Around the nucleus of "centralized power," the
factory was built. Inside of these big, unsightly
buildings was the power-machinery. Industry gradu
ally left the home and went into the factory. The
"centralization of power" in big plants demanded
more money than an individual possessed. To get
money, Stock Companies were organized, stock sold
and dividends promised. To man the machines,
workers were employed, and wages paid. To provide
wages for the workers and the dividends to the stock
holders, profits had to be provided. Profits were that
portion of the "wealth" created that remained after
expenses, wages and salaries were paid. To increase
the profits, wages were cut, and weaker Nations were
exploited in the sale of the surplus. Fierce competi
tion arose amongst the Capitalistic Nations for the
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION Ul
markets of the World. Armies and Navies were
organized, equipped and armed to protect and enforce
exploiting schemes. Tariff walls were built around
each Nation; huge cities were built up around these
big power-plants, with slums for the worker, and
palaces for the exploiter.
With this rapid sketch, it will be clearly seen that
the release of "Solar Energy," locked up in coal, and
brought into expression and use through the steam
engine, created a New Economic System, and a pro
found political revolution. It swept away the Old
Feudal System. The Feudal Lord owned the land,
and the muscular energy of the serfs. Through this
ownership, he controlled the "means of life" and
dominated everything to his own advantage.
The coming of the machine changed everything.
The Feudal Lord disappeared, and the Corporation
Magnate took his place. The serf disappeared, and
the wage slave took his place. Individual work in
the home was swept away in the stream of mass
production. So the old paternalistic Feudal System
passed away, and was replaced with the system
known now as "The Old Capitalism," from which has
come all our many-sided evils, greed, exploitation,
instability, riots, strikes, cycles of business prosper
ity ending in depression, with its unemployment,
misery, poverty and far-reaching distress. Continu
ous competition for the markets of the World. Con
tinuous competition for the control of the sources
of the raw material. Imperialism, with all its
destructive tendencies, all ending in the World War.
Now, all this was the "natural" result of the "cen
tralization of tremendous power plants" in different
localities. Steam cannot be distributed; you cannot
H2 PLENOCRACY
carry steam away from its source. Electricity can
be distributed and used over wide areas; but steam
must be used at its source.
"The stage has been set" for a New Economic
System. I have repeatedly stated that man has
nothing to do with "the setting of the stage" for new
advances. These stages are set for him to give him
new opportunities to do the right thing. The right
thing is co-operation for the common good. To enable
him to create an abundance of the "means of life"
for all, the steam engine was placed in his hands;
the steam engine, as I have shown, is the "Solar
Energy" in the Coal brought into expression and use
through the steam engine.
Now, it makes no difference what you or I think;
it makes no difference what you or I believe or do
not believe, our affirmations or denials make no
change in the movements of the "Infinite Energy"
that inter-penetrates and moves this Universe. One
tremendous fact stands out in amazing clearness,
the immeasurable energy of the Sun in the steam
engine, was turned over to man, to enable him to
create abundance for all.
No man, by deliberate action and conscious plan
ning, built the steam engine. He blundered into the
discovery. In his pursuit of something else, he
stumbled over it. This is true, in reference to all
man's inventions —they came to him from the vast
regions of the unconscious.
Did man use this vast harnessed "energy" to do
the right thing? That is, create abundance for all?
He did not. He used it to enrich the few, and impov
erish the many. He used it to enslave the producers
and enrich the non-producers. So then, the "Old
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION U8
Capitalism" —because of its destructive use of power,
—stands condemned in the presence of the Laws of
the Universe.
"The stage is now set" for a "New Age", and we
need a new Economic System, to meet the demands
of the New Age. In other words, another opportun
ity is presented to us to do the right thing, which,
as I have said before, creates abundance for all.
The heart of the Old System was "the centraliza
tion in the hands of the few of harnessed Solar
Energy" for the benefit of the few.
The heart of the New System is "the distribution
of harnessed Solar Energy" to all the people, for
the benefit of all.
The spirit of the "Old Capitalism" was centraliza
tion, for the purpose of exploitation.
The method of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan
is distribution, for the purpose of service. This new
system is now in operation. We have already given
an analysis of its method of operation.
At this point, we want to show that
forces are now at work, preparing
humanity for the universal reception
of this New Economic System.
We have said that, in the New Economic System,
"power will be distributed." Instead of being cen
tralized in the hands of the few, for their enrich
ment, it will be distributed to the many for service.
This process has begun. Bottled "Solar Energy" is
now being distributed in the case of the automobile
and the aeroplane. Gasoline is condensed Solar
Energy. The internal combustion engine is a machine
for harnessing this energy so as to bring it into
1U PLENOCRACY
expression, and use. These engines are built to
deliver horsepower in any quantity needed.
The automobile is an illustration of this distribu
tion of Solar Energy to the individual. In 1910, the
number of motor vehicles totaled 458,500; in 1930,
or 20 years afterwards, the total number was 25,523,-
779; and 55% of these vehicles were used in the
country and in towns of less than 10,000 inhabitants.
The total horsepower of these machines was one
billion, three hundred million. In other words, it
would take one billion, 300 million horses to pull
these machines. Due to this distribution of energy
in the 25,000,000 motor vehicles and busses, and the
increase in the number of aeroplanes, the railways
have lost their commanding position.
The history of the great railway companies shows
how the "centralization" of power, in the hands of
a few, in the matter of transportation, was used to
enrich the few, and despoil the many; in fact, the
railroad magnates were transportation autocrats.
It was old Commodore Vanderbilt, one of the early
transportation autocrats who said: "The public be
damned." This entire monopoly of transportation
has been destroyed. The railroads are bankrupt; the
value of their stock has evaporated. They have lost
their power. All due to the distribution of energy
amongst the people, in the automobile, bus and aero
plane. The internal combustion motor becomes an
economic "Jeiferson", when it puts into the hands
of the individual the power to carry himself and
family from place to place, without having to wait
for a train. Having this power, the individual stands
free from the paralyzing power of monopoly, in the
matter of transportation.
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION 145
The act of liberation, however, is not complete,
so long as oil and gasoline are monopolized. The
private owners of oil and gas, or bottled "Solar
Energy," are forced—through their own self-interest
—to render service to these 25 million customers.
The process of liberation will continue, however, and
the people will own and control the services and the
means of producing and distributing this power.
The supplies of "bottled Solar Energy" are aliribst
unlimited in their abundance, locked up in the
immense deposits of shale rock in Colorado, Wyoming
and the Northwest. The committee of eleven places
our oil-shale deposits at 394 billion tons, and esti
mates a yield of 135 billion barrels of oil, on the
basis of an average production of 14-4/10 gallons
of oil, per ton. This is a very modest estimate,
because it has been shown by numerous experiments
that 50 and 60 gallons of oil to the ton can be
extracted from this shale. These vast deposits are
now in the public domain, and they will be utilized
by the people, themselves, for service, instead of be
ing monopolized by the few for their own profit.
In addition to these shale deposits, we have other
sources of "bottled Solar Energy" that have not been
touched. Doctor Egloff, at a conference in Pitts
burgh, said that, if the 1,600,000,000,000 tons of
bituminous coal were subjected to low-pressure dis
tillation, we would obtain 800,000,000,000 barrels of
tar, which —upon cracking —would yield 240,000,000,-
000 barrels of Anti-Knock Gas. In high-compression
motors, this gas would give double or more mileage,
per gallon, than has heretofore been obtained. This
supply would provide enough motor-power for a
thousand years.
PLENOCRACY
All these sources of "power" fade into insignifi
cance, when we think of the power that is locked
up in the atom. An atom is a perfect Solar System,
in miniature.
As the electrons move around the central portion,
or nucleus, they are held in their orbits by energy,
which is only measured by the word "omnipotence."
The dream of the Scientist is "to obtain controlled
liberation of this energy." Professor LeBou of
Paris, asserts that the energy lying latent in the
smallest French coin is equal to 80 million horse
power. Einstein has formulated the law of the
amount of energy that a mass of matter contains.
It is this:
The energy of a mass is equal to the square of
the velocity of light, multiplied by the mass. Nqw
since the velocity of light is 186,300 miles per second,
it can be easily seen that the energy latent in a
small mass of matter, must be tremendous.
How to liberate and, at the same time, control
this energy is the problem that is confronting the
Scientist. The amount of energy that is being used
to-day in the various machines is a very small frac
tion of the amount of energy that is locked up.
When a piece of coal is burned, only
a few of the electrons are thrown out
of their orbits; so, only a very small
fraction of the energy that is locked up
in the coal is released.
The Scientist knows what he must do to release
all the energy that is in .the atom. He knows that
he must increase the speed of the Electrons to the
point where they will fly out of their orbits. When
that is done, then all the tremendous energy in the
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION U7
atom will be released. After it is released, it must
be captured and controlled. This is the problem
that the Scientist must solve.
To tear the atom apart, the Scientist must create
an Electric Field of at least 10 million volts. In this
field, he can tear atoms apart and transmute them.
Dr. Paul D. Foote of the Bureau of Standards,
states that: —"When the Scientist is able to utilize
an electric field of 10 million volts, there is small
doubt that every element may be produced by trans
mutation."
It is within the ability of the scientist to bring
about conditions for the creation of this vast field
of electric energy. The electric power is now in
existence to create this field. It is up to the scientist
to bring things together, to that end. When this is
done, then the Scientist can transmute all metals and
elements. Common lead will be changed into gold,
silver or any other metal. Common coal will be
transmuted into diamonds.
Power will be created cheaply, and distributed to
every home. All monopolies will be destroyed, and
their creation will be forever rendered impossible,
because there will be, in the hands of every man,
all the power necessary to supply his needs, and that
of his family.
The old definitions of value, based on scarcity, will
all become obsolete. There will be no scarcity. Hav
ing the power to transmute all things, man will be
able to create a "Stream of Plenty;" so rich, full
and free that all values will be lost in abundance.
Time and space will be completely wiped out, and
we know that time is money, and we also know that
interest is what we pay for the time—use of money.
148 PLENOCRACY
When time is abolished, interest will vanish ; in fact*
money, itself, will lose its value. It is my opinion
that the power of monopoly can never be destroyed
by legislation. However, it will be destroyed by
the scientist
My purpose in setting down these things, which
are surely coming, is to show that the forces that
"Set the Stage" for human advance are all favorable
to the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan. The central
principle of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, is
distribution —Universal Distribution. The "stream
of wealth" flowing to every cell in the living organ
ism of the social body; the machinery of the plan,
contemplates this ideal at every step, in the operation.
The machinery, itself, is not fixed, artificial or arbi
trary. It is not man-made. It fits into and is a
living part of human nature itself. If I were asked
to put the philosophy of the plan into one sentence,
it would be:
Self-interest, Intelligently Directed.
Self-Interest, without intelligence, is the cause of
all our troubles. The "Old Capitalism" is, as we
all know, organized on self-interest; but this self-
interest was not directed by Creative Intelligence.
If it had been directed by Creative, Constructive
Intelligence, we would not be in the terrible condition
that we are now.
The history of the "Old Capitalism" is the history
of intellectual dishonesty and stupidity. It is the
history of self-interest on the rampage. It is the
history of the wild, unrestrained, unregulated self-
interest of the few, in their rush to corral everything
for themselves, at the expense of the many. It is
the essence of stupidity, to erect an economic system
NATURAL DISTRIBUTION U9
on inflated "wealth." It is the essence of stupidity
to build an economic system on artificial, man-made
arbitrary schemes. It is the essence of stupidity
to build an Economic System that, sooner or later,
will put millions out of employment, thus destroying
the buying-power of the multitude. It is the essence
of stupidity to think that 2% of the community can
be prosperous while 98% are feeling adversity.
Nowhere in the whole history of the "Old Capital
ism" are there any evidences of Constructive Crea
tive Intelligence. It is the history of stupid blunder
ing, all the way through. So then, self-interest, alone,
will not solve our problems. We must have self-
interest, directed by Constructive, Creative Intelli
gence; on the other hand, intelligence, alone, will not
solve our problems.
Intelligence may construct beautiful theories, gor
geous castles and formulate splendid plans (like
Plato's Republic, or Augustine's City of God), but
these schemes are all purely idealistic; they look
good on paper; but they will not work, because they
fail to take into consideration the factor of self-
interest.
Now, in the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, there
are these two great factors, Self-Interest and Con
structive Intelligence. The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan is an Economic System, so directed by "Creative
Intelligence" that the opportunity to get the "Means
of Life" flows to every individual in the community.
Chapter Six
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR?
'HE answer to this question is found in the ar-
rangements of the material universe; it is writ
ten in letters of gold, in every part of the Solar Sys
tem.
It is not necessary to spend weary hours wading
through heavy volumes filled with dry statistics, to
find an answer to this question. The perfect equip
ments of the system of things in which each one of
us is bathed, supplies the answer.
The human body is a bundle of needs. The universe
around us is the source of abundant supplies. There
is a perfect correspondence between the needs and
the supplies. Nature gives and man absorbs. A drop
of ocean-water, hanging pendant on the finger-tip,
contains within itself all the elements that are in
the ocean, in condensed form. So the human body
contains within itself, all the elements that are in the
material universe, in condensed form ; therefore, the
human body is the Material Universe in Miniature.
The forces that are in the human body, and the
elements that enter into its structure are identical
with the forces that are in the universe, and the ele
ments that enter into its structure. When a man
knows something about these forces, the laws of these
forces and the nature of the elements that go to build
his body, he knows something about the Material
Universe. So the Old Greek motto: "Know Thyself,"
contains a great truth.
In this discussion, we are dealing with the body
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 151
and its needs. An Economic System is organized to
supply food, fuel, clothing and shelter for man's body.
In the Solar System, through the sun co-operating
with the earth, the moon and the planets, we have a
perfect Economic System; a living system in con
stant motion, pouring forth a stream of raw materials
and finished substances for the needs of the body.
Behind, and in these arrangements, there is an In
finite Energy, directed by a Supreme Intelligence,
and the movements and equipments are co-ordinated
towards one great end, which is this: That every
form of life shall have access to this abundant stream
of supplies.
The energy that moves this* magnificent Solar
Machine, and the Intelligence that directs it, are not
supplied by man. It moves, and is directed in a realm
far beyond the reach of human interference. This is
an extremely wise provision. If man had control of
this vast machine, or could change its movements, we
would have nothing but confusion. Someone has
said:
"I thank my God, the Sun and Moon
Are both stuck up so high
That no presumptuous hand can stretch
And pluck them from the sky.
"If they were not, I do believe
That some reforming ass
Would recommend to take them down,
And light the world with gas."
I have a few very important points to emphasize
in connection with the operations of this Great Sys
tem:
It is operated for use and service, and not for
profit.
152 PLENOCRACY
It is operated for the benefit of all, and not for a
few.
It is based on reality; in fact, this system is reality.
We talk about "The Nature of Things." This System
is The Nature of things.
It is the expression of justice. There is no room in
this system for the false; no room for inflation, de
flation or camouflage.
It is a system that creates real values; apart from
what it produces, there are no real values. Real
wealth is something that can be used to sustain life.
This system does nothing else but supply the sub
stances that are needed to sustain life.
A bushel of wheat, for instance, contains a certain
definite amount of the elements and energy that the
human body needs; this is real wealth. The price of
the bushel of wheat may change; the price is arbi
trary and man-made, and is no true indication of the
real value of the wheat.
The correspondence between the needs of the body
and the food substances, supplied by this great sys
tem is complete. The needs of the body is the mortice.
The supplies furnished is the tenon, and the fit is
perfect. Food Scientists, studying the needs of the
body and the supplies, have classified the elements
that are needed to build the body, repair it and sup
ply it with energy; they call them: proteins, fats,
carbo hydrates and organic salts.
These Scientists tell us that proteins are used in
building the tissues, in the repair of the muscles and
the nerves; and they tell us that these elements are
found in abundance in nuts, beans, peas, lentiles,
whole-wheat, cheese, eggs and milk.
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 158
They tell us that fats supply the body with heat.
These fats are found in olive-oil, nuts, butter, cream,
avocada pears.
They also tell us that carbo hydrates, or starches
and sugars, supply the body with energy. These en
ergy supplying elements are found in abundance in
potatoes, sweet potatoes, buckwheat, bananas, peas,
beans, pumpkin, squash, parsnips, beets, carrots and
all the cereals; besides these, sugars are found in
abundance in fruits of all kinds, sugar-cane, honey,
maple syrup and sorghum.
The organic salts are found in fruits and berries,
especially lemons, oranges and grapefruit ; also in all
leafy vegetables, tomatoes, carrots and onions.
Surely, Mother Nature is a rich provider.
To simplify this matter, The Body is an Electric
Machine, composed of millions of electric cells. It
needs material to build the cell-walls, and repair
them ; and it also needs the alkalines and the acids to
create the electric current.
The food substances are condensed sunlight,
wrapped up in organic cells. In the chemical process
of digestion, these cells are disintegrated, and the
electric energy is released ; the original cell-elements,
and the electricity are carried in the bloodstream to
every part of the body, to build new cells, repair the
waste and supply the energy.
All the energy and elements found in food sub
stances come from the Sun co-operating with the
Earth, the moon and the other planets in the Solar
System. This stream of food substances flows steadily
from the source of supplies to man in rich abun
dance. This natural flow can be increased ten times,
and the quality vastly improved, through intelligent
PLENOCRACY
human co-operation with the productive forces of
nature. This has been demonstrated by the remark
able work of Luther Burbank of California, and the
notable achievements of a colored Scientist, Doctor
Carver, at Tuskegee Institute, Alabama.
In an article in the American Magazine for Octo
ber, 1932, written by James Saxon Childers, who in
terviewed Doctor Carver, he says: "During the
thirty-six years in which Doctor Carver has been
Director of Agricultural Research at Tuskegee Insti
tute, he has been at work with common things ; mak
ing something out of nothing; or next to nothing.
From wood-shavings, he has made synthetic
marble.
From peanut shells, he has made insulating walls
for houses.
From the muck of swamps, and the leaves of forest
trees, he has made valuable fertilizers.
From cow manure, he has made paint.
From the common, ordinary peanut, he has made
285 useful products, including milk, butter, cheese,
candies, instant coffee, pickles, sauces, oils, shaving
lotions, wood stains, dyes, lard, linoleum, flour,
breakfast foods, soap, stock foods, face powder, tan
remover, printers' ink and even axle grease.
From the lowly sweet potato, he has made 118
products, amongst them flour, meal, starch, library
paste, vinegar, shoe blacking, ginger, rubber com
pound, chocolate compound, dyes, molasses, wood fil
ler and caramels.
From clays of the earth, he has made non-fading
paints and pigments.
From worn-out sandy soils, he has produced splen
did crops.
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 155
Doctor Carver is an intensely devout man. In an
swer to a question put to him by his interviewer,
"How do you find time to do all this work?" he said,
"Chiefly because I have made it a rule of my life, to
get up every morning at four o'clock, Winter and
Summer. I wake up at that hour, and I get up. I go
out into the woods. Alone there, with the things I
love, I gather specimens and study the great lessons
that nature is so eager to teach me. In the woods, each
morning, while most other people are sleeping, I best
hear and understand 'God's plan for me.' Then I re
turn to my laboratory at nine o'clock, and I work
there all day."
In the case of this marvelous colored man, we have
a beautiful picture of a full, rich, abundant and joy
ous life. He lives in union with nature. The intelli
gence and energy that flows through the universe,
finds a vehicle in his brain for free expression. He
does not care for money. He lives to give service.
Living to give service, his life is in tune with the
Infinite Energy that pervades every part of the struc
ture of the Universe. He never thinks about pay. He
is intensely interested in his work. It is his supreme
joy to work with nature. He lives in nature, works
with nature all day and, at night, goes to sleep in
her arms. In this simple colored man, we have a mag
nificent example of the Natural Life ; a life free from
strain, stress and worry. A usefid, constructive, cre
ative life.
Steinmetz, Burbank and Edison were men of the
same type. Who can measure the benefits that these
men have conferred upon humanity? What a con
trast there is between the type of man produced by
156 PLENOCRACY
the "Old Capitalism," and this simple, old, colored
Scientist.
The Economic System spawned by the "Old Cap
italism," organized to amass profit for the few, and
exploit the many, it perverts men and methods, and
wrecks Nature's Plan.
I have said that the human body is the Solar Sys
tem, in miniature. The human body is an electric
machine. This machine is the vehicle through which
the ego or the real man expresses himself in time
and space. In other words, the human body is an
electric machine, built on the model of the Solar Sys
tem, directed by human intelligence.
Now nature repeats herself in all her parts. Emer
son says: "Everything in nature contains all the
power of nature; the Universe is represented in
every one of its atoms." The atom is a perfect Solar
System; the electrons move around a nucleus with
amazing speed, and perfect precision.
With these considerations, it is my opinion that
the Solar System is a giant Electric Machine. In the
center is the Sun, an immense electric dynamo, over
a million times larger than the earth , spinning at a
terrific speed, and as it spins, it cuts through the
lines of cosmic magnetic force; thus supplying itself
with vast quantities of electric energy.
The Sun sends forth vast waves of this energy to
every part of the Solar System. The planets are
motors of different size and power. They receive their
motive-power from the Sun; they absorb this power
and, as they revolve, they send out waves of energy,
and the nature of those waves are determined by the
chemical composition of the planets themselves.
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 157
So the entire Solar System lives, moves and has
its being in a "Sea of Vibrations." Everything is in
motion, at different rates of speed. Now, just as the
human body is the vehicle through which the finite
life and intelligence of man expresses itself, so the
Solar System is the vehicle through which the Infi
nite Life and Intelligence of the Creator expresses it
self. There are no dividing walls in the Universe.
There are no separate compartments. It is all one ex
pression of manifold vibrations. Emerson says: —
"We live in successions, in divisions, in parts, in
particles; meanwhile, within us is the Soul of the
whole, the wise silence, the Universal beauty to which
every part and particle is equally related—the Eter
nal One ; and this deep power in which we exist, and
whose beatitude is all accessible to us, is not only
self-sufficing and perfect every hour, but the act of
seeing, and the thing seen, the seer and the spectacle,
the subject and the object are one. We see the world
piece by piece as the Sun, the Moon, the animal, the
tree; but the whole, of which these are the parts, is
the Soul."
Now, to my mind, the supreme curse, the supreme
lie, the supreme stupidity is the idea of separateness.
In accordance with this stupid error, man imagines
that he is complete within himself; that it is his
business to look out for himself, alone. Out of this
error, has grown the "Old Capitalism," with all its
blunders, stupidities and crimes against humanity
and God. Where one man is guilty, all men are not
entirely innocent.
How stupid we are. The Eternal is One, and refuses
to be disparted. We seek to act partially, to sunder,
to appropriate. The Eternal Soul of things is Omni
158 PLENOCRACY
potent, and insists upon working through all things,
and be the supreme fact. It is the Supreme Fact.
All man's puny efforts to separate, to divide, is
counteracted by this Infinite and all-powerful energy.
Man never has, and never will succeed in his at
tempts to cut things up into departments. Emerson
says: "The parted water unites behind our hand.
Pleasure is taken out of pleasant things; profit out
of profitable things ; power out of strong things, the
moment we seek to separate them from the whole."
We cannot get the inside, without the outside. We
cannot get the light, without the shadow.
The master blunder of the Old Capitalism lies in
its denial of the whole ; in its attempt to separate, it
has ruined the world. Between the source of supplies
and the needs of living humanity, the Old Capital
ism has built a system that acts as a barrier to the
free-flow of supplies from the source to the compon
ent parts of the whole. Across the stream of sup
plies, they have built an immense dam, which has
gates for the purpose of diverting the stream to suit
their own selfish purposes. They may succeed for
a time, but the Eternal Living Energy that pervades
all things, smashes the dam, and the flood of catas
trophe sweeps the builders and their schemes to de
struction.
We are now witnessing, in the present world-wide
depression, how this Eternal Energy sweeps away a
system that stands in the way of its purpose. History
is simply a record of selfish men building arbitrary
systems, to have them destroyed time after time, by
this Eternal Energy.
The Supreme Law of this energy is: "Fall into
line with Me, allow My benefits to flow through your
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 159
system, unimpeded. My purpose is to render Univer
sal Service, free from private profit. / am the whole.
I refuse to be divided. If your system is not in har
mony with my plan, I will destroy both you and it.
Your monopolies of money and the 'Means of Life' ;
your corporations organized for private profit; the
methods you employ to create fictitious wealth ; your
tariff walls, your stock exchange, where you inflate
real values, and make gambling a virtue; your grain
exchanges, where you legally rob the farmer; your
political parties, through which you legislate for
groups; your warring minorities, your lobbyists
sneaking through the cloak-rooms in the Halls of
Congress, to defeat the people's will ; your coarse ma
terialism; your schemes to exploit life; in short, the
entire structure that you have built, from foundation
to capstone, is against my plan for humanity, and it
has destroyed itself."
All systems that are not built in accordance with
Natural Law contain, within themselves, the seeds of
their own dissolution. As Emerson says: "The Uni
verse is alive; all things are moral. The soul which
within us is a sentiment, outside of us is a law. We
feel its inspiration out there. In history, we can see
its fatal strength. It is almighty, all nature feels its
grasp. It is in the world ; and the world was made by
it. It is the Eternal but it enacts itself in time and
space. A perfect equity adjusts its balance in all
parts of life."
The operation of this Eternal Force works like a
multiplication table, or a mathematical equation;
turn it how you will, it balances itself.
The "Old Capitalism" was an attempt to defeat
and pervert the Laws of this Eternal Power. This
160 PLENOCRACY
power aims to serve the whole. The "Old Capitalism"
aims to serve a part. Such a system must go down in
wreck. Human society is a living organism; all parts
are intimately inter-related. When one part is bene
fited, all parts are benefited. When one part is in
jured, all parts are injured. If you weaken Germany,
you weaken every other Nation. If you injure France,
you injure every other nation. If you damage Japan,
you damage the World. If the strong nations exploit
the weaker nations, they exploit themselves.
If you build tariff walls against the products of
other nations, other nations will build tariff walls
against you; so all nations suffer. This same holds
good within the Nation, itself.
// your Economic System enriches
the few, at the expense of the many,
the impoverishment of the many will
destroy the riches of the few.
If your system builds palaces and slums, the dis
eases of the slums destroy the health of the palaces.
If the farmers are burdened with debt, and are
forced to sell their products below the cost of pro
duction, they have no money to buy the output of
the factory ; the factory must close, and the workers
are thrown out of employment.
If you organize Stock Exchanges to inflate values ;
put this inflation inlo gilded stock certificates, and
sell them to the public, the balloon will burst, and the
explosion will kill you and your customers. // your
system is organized in terms of private profit, and
not of human welfare, it will be wrecked, and mil
lions thrown out of employment.
The wreck of such a system is now being witnessed.
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 161
11,000,000 men, good honest men, seeking for work;
anxious to sustain their wives and children. Mul
tiply these millions by three, and you have 33,000,000
crying for bread, amidst plenty. To-day is October
31st, 1932. I have witnessed a hunger parade of over
30,000 men, women and children, marching down
Michigan Boulevard in Chicago, Illinois, crying for
bread and a chance to earn it. A long line of honest
human beings; cold, hungry, weary; filled with in
tense human anguish. At the same time, Mother
Earth, in co-operation with the Sun, poured forth
16,000 million dollars' worth of supplies this year.
The granaries are bursting with wheat. The cotton
warehouses are filled with cotton. The banks are
filled with money. The farmers are burning their
corn; giving the milk to the hogs. The ground, in
many orchards, is covered with apples and pears.
This is only a small segment of the
vast circle of ruin. No human imagina
tion can conceive of the vast sea of des
pair, suffering and anguish that lies
back of this partial expression. All this
is the result of the methods of the "Old
Capitalism."
The following is another glance at a small segment
of the vast circle of the deprivation and suffering
which human beings experience under this system.
In the early months of 1932, 500 Investigators for
the Emergency Relief Bureau of New York, made a
house-to-house survey of 6,304 families in the city.
None of these cases were known to any family wel
fare society, being either too ignorant, or too proud
to apply for organized relief. The following figures
162 PLENOCRACY
tabulate the results of the investigation; out of the
6,304 families :
5,122 Families lacked in food.
5,516 Families back in the Payment
of Rent.
2,387 Families lacked Winter Cloth
ing.
1,576 Families short of Fuel.
3,976 Families were in debt; many of
them hounded daily by Loan
Sharks.
These figures are cold. Behind them is a story of
human suffering, which cannot be put into human
words ; the mental suffering, the discouragement, the
hopelessness, the breaking up of homes, the disastrous
effect on the lives of children, the destruction of the
spirit of courage.
No man, even if he had the imagination of one
thousand men, could tell the story of the hunger,
misery, anguish, suffering, and fear, that lies back
of the eleven millions out of work; this number can
be multiplied by three, representing those who are
dependent upon them, and as has been said before we
have over 30 millions destitute, hungry and suffering.
The Masters of the Old System , the men who con
trol the "Old Capitalism," do not seem to see that the
loss of the purchasing power of this vast multitude
has wrecked their fortunes, and brought untold pri
vation and suffering upon the unemployed.
It is not necessary to present any more illustra
tions of the failure of the "Old Capitalism." If con
ditions are not changed, and changed speedily, we
will have a Revolution. A New Economic System,
built in accordance with Natural Law, and organized
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 163
to render service to the whole, must be put into op
eration.
The Eternal Power that pervades the universe,
directing its movements, must be obeyed. The UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan of the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE ASSOCIATION, is such a system; it is
organized to render service to the whole, and is so
constructed that it is in perfect alignment with the
way nature works; in other words, it furnishes a
channel through which the stream of abundance
flows to humanity.
The Fall of Roman Civilization
There is an almost perfect parallel existing be
tween the crisis we are now passing through, and the
fall of the Roman Empire. The parallelism is seen in
two phases : —
First, in the complete collapse and destruction of a
system, based on the exploitation of life and a denial
of the whole.
Second, in the rise of numerous groups devoted to
the welfare of life in a recognition of the whole.
In other words, the overthrow and annihilation of
Paganism and the establishment of human brother
hood. Two philosophies of life opposed to each other
at all points:
One artificial, the other natural; one
destructive, the other constructive; one
organized for private profit, the other
organized for human welfare.
Paganism, or organized greed, sustained by mighty
armies of war-scarred veterans, panoplied in armor,
whose weapons were battle-axe, spear, dagger and
bludgeon; in other words, organized brutal force.
164. PLENOCRACY
Christianity, or organized unselfishness, composed
of groups of people devoted to the common good,
whose weapons were truth, love, fellowship, and co
operation. These met in conflict and Christianity won
a complete victory.
Remember that the Christianity that won was not
the corrupted form which we are familiar with. It
was the purer form of Christianity that won, which
fell from the lips of the founder.
The same conflict is going on now
between the "Old Capitalism," or or
ganized force, and groups of people de
voted to the common good, inspired by
truth, love, fellowship and the spirit of
cooperation.
It has been said that in the conflict between Pagan
ism and Christianity, Julian, one of the sincere and
powerful defenders of Paganism, when he was dying
and seeing the inevitable defeat of Paganism, cried
out : "Oh Galilean, Thou has conquered." In the pres
ent conflict, "The Gallilean" will win again. With
these statements before us, let us rapidly sketch the
main features of that historic conflict.
Paganism was a System; an Economic, Political,
Religious and Social System, which was the natural
outgrowth or expression of the nature and character
of the Roman people.
The nature of a people is best discovered by con
sidering their language, their laws or customs and
their amusements.
LANGUAGE: What is Language? Language is the
expression of the inward soul force ; it is the outward
revelation of the real nature of the group that uses
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 165
it; for instance, we have a group known as the Un
derworld, the Gangsters; they have their own
language, such as "Oh Yeah"—"Putting him on the
Spot" —"Giving him the works"—"Muscling in"—
"Racketeer"—"Taking him for a ride"— "Ten grand"
—"Ask the moll"— "Scram"— "Bath-tub." These ex
pressions and many others, reveal the deep, innate,
cold-blooded, savagery of the underworld group. An
analysis of the language of any man, group, or na
tion, reveals the inward real nature of that man,
group or nation.
A man cannot speak without pronouncing judg
ment on himself. With his will, or against his will, he
draws his own portrait, by the words he speaks.
Every sentence reacts on the person who utters it.
It is a thread-ball, thrown at a mark; the other end
remains in the thrower's bag. Follow up the thread,
and the real man stands before you.
Now, the Latin Language is the external expres
sion of the character of the people who produced it.
It is a cold, calculating, semi-barbaric, practical busi
ness language. It is the language of the hard-headed,
hard-hearted business man, who lives for gain. It is
a legal language ; the language of property.
The Laws of Rome dealt with property rights. All
the laws that the Capitalistic Nations of to-day use,
are based on the Laws of Rome. Our conception of
the so-called sacredness of private property came to
us from Rome. Roman Law and Custom subordinated
human life to property. In any conflict between
the rights of property and the rights of man, prop
erty won. The spirit of the Roman business man, the
wealthy Patrician, was to hell with life; give me
property.
166 PLENOCRACY
AMUSEMENTS : Tell me how a man amuses him
self, and I will tell you the kind of a man he is.
The character of the Spaniards is revealed in their
bull fights.
The character of the Ancient Greeks was ex
pressed in their amusements: The heroic plays in
the open air theatre. The Marathon, where the youth
competed in the races, and the Olympic games where
the youth competed with each other, in wrestling,
throwing the javelin and the discus.
The innate Savagery of the Roman people, is ex
pressed in their amusements: The gladiatorial com
bats in the Coliseum, Gladiators stripped to the waist,
armed with shield and dagger, engaged in mortal
combat. Armed Slaves in mortal conflict with lions
and tigers. The highest enjoyment of the spectators
comes when the lions or tigers tear the Slaves into
fragments. It has been said that, when a wealthy
patrician arranged an entertainment for his guests,
he would torture a slave to death. It has been said
that Domitian, one of the crudest monsters that ever
lived, amused himself by spearing flies. He would
hold them up, and as they writhed in the agony of
death, he would laugh in fiendish delight.
I have analyzed the character of the language, the
laws and the amusements of Ancient Rome, to show
the innate character of the Roman people. It was
cruel, savage and barbarian. Life was destroyed in
utter ruthlessness, to amass property.
The Roman System was a great business organiza
tion, with its headquarters in the City of Rome. Rome
had a population of about one million and a half. It
was a great city ; its buildings were massive and solid.
It had great squares and main streets. From the
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 167
centre of this city, thirty-one roads, well paved, cross
ing desert, over swamp and mountain, reaching to
the farthest confines of the provinces, bound the ter
ritory of Rome into one Unit. These roads were well
policed. Being the arteries of trade, the caravans of
the merchants, carrying products from all parts of
the civilized world to Rome, had to be protected.
The Roman Galleys, manned by slaves, tied to the
oar, bank above bank, traversed the Mediterranean,
visiting the west coast of Africa, and the coasts of
the British Islands, bringing back tin from the tin
mines of Cornwall, Slaves from the West Coast of
Africa, Oranges and Citrus Fruit from Spain, and
Spices from Arabia.
The foreign trade was immense. The markets,
bazaars and mercantile houses of Rome were well
supplied with life's necessities and luxuries. Industry
was well organized, and the merchants and manufac
turers became immensely wealthy.
In the suburbs of Rome, these Merchant Princes
and Manufacturers lived in luxury, in splendid villas.
They were wealthy land owners; men who monopo
lized vast acreages ; an army of Slaves were employed
under overseers, to cultivate the land. To protect this
vast business enterprise, a powerful army of fighting
men was organized, and a Navy of big galleys was
built, manned with soldiers, equipped with grappling
machines.
The Big Business men of Rome could not allow
any other Nation to interfere with their economic
ownership and control of the world. Carthage was the
most powerful rival they had. For many years, Rome
and Carthage fought for supremacy; finally, Rome
won. Carthage was completely destroyed, and its in
168 PLENOCRACY
habitants sold as Slaves in the Slave Markets of
Rome. All Power was centralized in an oligarchy in
the City of Rome, and the entire inhabited World was
compelled to minister to the powerful few. The entire
Roman System was based :
FIRST, on the exploitation of Life or Slavery. It
has been said that, in Rome, itself, there were 900,-
000 Slaves. When Tarentum was captured, B. C. 209,
30,000 prisoners were sold as Slaves. After the Battle
of Metaurus, 5,400 were captured and sold. In B. C.
200, 15,000 were seized and sold. In B. C. 137, 80,000
Sardineans were sold. Such was the enormous num
ber of Sardineans olfered for sale, that prices fell to
a ridiculously low ebb, and the expression "Cheap as
a Sardinean" became a proverb. After the siege of
Perseus, there were seventy cities destroyed, and
150,000 persons sold into slavery.
These are just a few instances of Rome's policy
and program. In that age, the only power available
to work the farm and the mine was the muscular
power of man and beast. These Ancient Masters of
the world did not have any machines like we have.
We have harnessed the Forces of Nature; Steam,
Gasoline and Electricity, and we have in these
machines, the power of millions of men. If this power
was properly co-ordinated and directed, we could free
all men from the drudgery of toil, and give them
ample leisure for the higher things of life. Our Mod
ern Masters are too stupid to make this adjustment.
The Masters in Rome were forced to get control
of the only energy that was available, and that was
muscular man-power. So they organized a powerful
army, conquered other peoples by force, made slaves
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 169
of those they did not kill and made them work the
farms and the mines.
SECOND —The Roman System was based on pri
vate property, obtained at the expense of life. Pri
vate property was the only thing of value. Human
life was cheap. When slaves were plentiful, they could
be bought for a song. The oligarchy of wealth and
the entire gilded civilization of Rome rested on
chained, crushed, enslaved men and women.
THIRD —The ownership and control of money, in
the hands of the few. The matter of coining money,
establishing its value and distributing it, belongs to
the people, or their elected representatives.
Money is the medium of exchange, or the blood
stream of the economic body. The value of money
does not depend on any arbitrary standard set up by
man ; its stability does not rest on the gold standard,
or the silver standard ; its stability rests upon the re
sources of the country, and the intelligence and pro
ducing power of all the people in the country. Be
cause of this, the money of a Nation represents the
wealth-producing power of the people of that Nation.
If a Nation does not possess the power to produce
wealth, or is deprived of that power, its money has
very little value.
The Roman Shylocks, in their greed for gain, ob
tained control of the distribution of the money of
the Nation, and as it passed through their hands,
they loaded it with a heavy interest charge. When
the people of any country surrender to a few the
power to distribute their money and load it with
heavy interest charges, they have rung their own
death knell.
170 PLENOCRACY
The Money Monopolists will organize themselves
into a compact, powerful group. Having control of
the wealth of the country, they will hoard real wealth,
and create credit money based upon nothing; and in
stead of distributing real money, they will distribute
this credit-money, and charge the people heavy in
terest rates, and compel them to put up mortgages of
their property, to secure the loans.
Within the lapse of years, this group of Shylocks
will own all the property in the country. We can see
this today in the United States.
It has been estimated that a fair cash value of all
the assessable wealth of all property in the United
States in 1919, when values were double what they
are now in 1932, is given at 150 Billion Dollars. The
debts of the people of the United States roughly
speaking would amount to 150 Billion Dollars, or a
sum equal to the cash value of all assessable prop
erty in the United States, on which the people are
paying 9 Billions in interest each year, more than
all the money there is in all forms, including paper,
gold and silver coins in the United States. So then,
if all the Mortgages and all the Loans were called in
now, in this time of depression, nobody —save the
money-lenders, would own anything.
The Producing Classes would lose their property.
The Non-Producers would gain possession of it.
The Productive power of the Farmer would be de
stroyed.
The Creative Power of the Industrial Worker
would be paralyzed.
Such a civilization must end in catastrophe,
wherein both the Money-Lenders and the Victims are
destroyed.
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 171
The complete destruction of the Roman System, or
Paganism, is a startling illustration of this. As I
said before, Roman Civilization was built on the "ex
ploitation of life." The enslavement of the masses
was the exploitation of life, and since money repre
sents condensed labor energy, the control of its dis
tribution was also the "exploitation of life."
The Pagan Idea was that property, alone, was
sacred, and the only thing of value.
The Ancient Masters of Finance, Industry and
Commerce, in pursuance of this idea, put millions to
the sword, sacked thousands of cities, robbed their in
habitants of all their treasures and enslaved the
world.
Such a system could not continue; it was unnatural,
unjust, false throughout. It was a complete reversal
of Nature's Plan for humanity. As I have said be
fore, the Material Universe is the vehicle through
which Infinite Energy expresses itself. This expres
sion is in terms of service to life. Life, alone, is sacred
and the only thing of value. Everything in the Uni
verse, including property, must be made "to serve
life."
The attempt of Paganism to deny the presence of
this energy that binds the Universe into one, its re
fusal to construct its political and economic system
in accordance with the way that this energy works,
brought about its destruction. The fall of Rome was
the end of that age, and marked the beginning of a
New Era in human progress.
What were the factors that brought about the dis
solution of the old Paganism, and furnished the ideas
and plan for the New Advance?
172 PLENOCRACY
The first factor, as I have already stated, was the
destructive power inherent in every part of the Old
Paganism.
The second factor was the existence of numerous
groups of workers, organized for mutual protection
and mutual help, inspired, directed and unified by
Christianity.
C. Osborne Ward in his book "The Ancient Lowly"
has furnished unanswerable proof of the existence of
these organizations.
We sometimes think that the Union Labor Move
ment is a modern development ; but Ward shows, con
clusively, that away back, over two thousand years
ago, every trade and branch of industry was organ
ized. Moses, the Great Jewish Law-giver, was one of
the first great labor leaders, and one of the first great
Economists of history. We know that for 450 years,
the Jews were in Slavery in Egypt. The Muscular
Power of that proud race was used by the Govern
ment in public works, and in the erection of the great
Pyramids. But these long years of slavery did not
quench their spirit; nor destroy their desire for free
dom.
The Masters in government and business, as they
saw how fast the Jewish people were multiplying
passed a law commanding that all male children born
should immediately be killed. While this law was in
force, Moses was born, and his mother made a small
cradle of bullrushes, and hid him in the weeds and
grasses, which grew on the banks of the Nile. The
King's daughter, accompanied by her maids, came
to the river to bathe, and found the child. She took
him to the palace, and adopted him as her own son.
He was trained in all the wisdom of the Egyptians.
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 178
The environments of the palace, however, did not
destroy his loyalty to his own people. In every fibre
of his being, he remained a Hebrew. He sympathized
with them in their sufferings, and made up his mind
that he would become their deliverer. On one occa
sion, as he saw an Egyptian over-seer maltreat a
Jew, his anger arose, and he killed the Egyptian. He
fled from Egypt, and hid himself in the depths of
the Arabian Mountains; there he communed with
nature. In the deep silences, he heard the Voice of
Truth. He had a vision of reality. He saw the na
ture of things, and obtained a deep insight into
Nature's Plan for Man.
The first thing that Moses had to do, was to eman
cipate himself. No man can liberate others, and
remain a slave, himself. Emancipated through his
Vision of Truth, Moses saw, clearly, that the entire
Egyptian system was wrong. He saw that the con
dition of his people in Egypt was a complete perver
sion of nature's plan, and he decided to liberate
them and lead them to a new country where, on the
principle of self determination, they could build
themselves into a great Nation. The liberation of
the Jews from bondage, their march across the
desert to Canaan; the establishment of the Jewish
Commonwealth in Canaan, was fundamentally, an
Economic Movement throughout.
It was a question of obtaining better material
conditions. There can be no political, mental or spir
itual freedom, apart from Economic Freedom. Eco
nomic Freedom is basic.
In the Mosaic System, the question of food, fuel,
clothing and shelter was basic.
PLENOCRACY
In his Laws, Moses took care of these first. The
political, moral and religious laws were based on the
economic arrangements. The allotment of the land
to each Jewish family in Palestine was economic.
The moratorium where, at the end of a certain
term of years, all debts were cancelled, and all land
re-distributed, giving all the people a new start, was
economic.
The prohibition of private profit and interest was
essential in carrying out the idea of co-operation and
mutual helpfulness. To take profit from a brother,
or to take advantage of him in time of need, by
charging him interest on a loan, destroys the spirit
and principle of co-operation. The Laws of Moses
wisely prohibited private profit and interest, because
this practice would, eventually, destroy the Common
wealth.
When individuals exploit each other, they mutually
impoverish each other. When they co-operate, they
mutually enrich each other.
To be sure, the Mosaic System was not perfect.
The principles on which it was based were perfect,
but those principles could not be applied, in full
strength; they had to be modified and adjusted, to
meet the conditions of the age, and the character of
the people.
The original Jewish Commonwealth, then, was a
Union of Workers, based upon the land, free from
exploitation, organized for mutual protection and
mutual help.
The Jews departed from these great principles.
They lost their lands and their independence, and
were scattered all over the Roman World. However,
they clung to the old parchments on which the Laws
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 175
of Moses were inscribed. They built synagogues in
the various cities and towns of the country, and on
every Saturday they held meetings in these syna
gogues, and listened to addresses from the lips of
the Rabbi, or teacher. These addresses were exposi
tions of the Laws of Moses. When Jesus sent out
his apostles to proclaim the message of Christianity,
they found, in these synagogues, an opportunity to
present the claims of Christianity.
In addition to these groups of Jewish Brother
hoods, there were numerous co-operative groups
among the Gentiles, as Ward has shown in his book,
"The Ancient Lowly." In fact, every branch of
trade and industry was organized for mutual pro
tection and help. These groups were organized un
der the Laws of Solon, the great Greek Lawgiver
and Philosopher. These Laws of Solon were accepted
by Numa Pompilius, the liberal-minded King of
Rome, and put into operation in the realms he gov
erned.
These groups were voluntary associations, organ
ized around the pure uplifting principles of love,
fellowship, co-operation and harmony. They were
extensions of the "idea of the family." As Ward
says: "Under the Solonic Dispensation, the family
was to be the central pattern or model of the City,
and the labor organization was to be patterned after
the family. It was to have its common table, at the
head of which sat the Father or Master of the house
hold. All were to be treated exactly alike. Each
was to have enough. Each was to do his or her share
of the labor or support. None were to have things
from which the others were excluded. Contentment,
176 PLENOCRACY
liberty, development, happiness and plenty was the
result."
These Union Members paid regular dues. These
dues were used to take care of the widows and or
phans and the sick, and there was a certain portion
set aside for burial funds. They were secret; having
specific rituals, passwords and degrees. These de
grees were educational. No one was allowed to join,
unless he could meet certain conditions. He had to
be clean, honest, upright and willing to co-operate,
and above reproach. The portals to these brother
hoods were well guarded.
The point that I want to emphasize is : That these
groups were economic. They were organized around
the needs of the body. They were organized for pro
tection, defense and accommodation along economic
lines. At the same time, they had a religious trend.
These groups were supposed to be under the protec
tion of some Tutelary Deity or God. It was the gen
eral belief that the Gods were organized; that the
great masses of the people were under the protection
and guidance of the Great God, Saturn, and each
group of workers was protected by some minor
deity.
Soldiers and iron-workers were protected by
Mars. Sailors and fishermen were under the pro
tection of Neptune. Artists, painters, sculptors and
musicians were protected by Venus. Speakers,
writers and messengers were protected by Mercury.
Patricians, Kings and the ruling classes, were gen
erally protected by Jupiter.
All these Gods and Goddesses were animated by
human passions and tendencies. They married and
inter-married. They had children. They were afflicted
WHAT IS AN ECONOMIC SYSTEM FOR? 177
with all the common weaknesses and faults of hu
manity. This whole hierarchy of Gods was purely
a human creation. It did not exist in reality. It was
a projection of the complexes in the human con
sciousness. It was wish-thinking, creating a God Sys
tem to satisfy human desires.
Since it was not in accordance with reality, it
could not continue. It was the outgrowth and expres
sion of human ignorance, and remained in force un
til it was swept away by the introduction of Chris
tianity. This rapid survey of the conditions prevail
ing in the world when Jesus and his associates be
gan their mission, shows that everything was ready
for the New Movement.
The Old Paganism, based upon the exploitation of
life, competition and private profit, was destroying
itself. The New System of Co-operation, based upon
the conservation of life, and the common good was
in operation amongst numerous groups. The Car
penters and Wood-workers were organized. Jesus
was a carpenter, and it is natural to suppose that
he would become a member of the wood-workers
union.
The same conditions prevail today. The "Old Capi
talism" is rapidly destroying itself.
There are numerous groups of workers organized
on the principle of co-operation. The UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan finds that the field of operations is
ready for it. Just as the organizers of Christianity
found in the co-operative groups of workers of that
age, tens-of-thousands who were ready to listen to
their message, so the representatives of the UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan can find an audience ready
1 78 PLENOCRACY
to listen to their message in the hundreds-of-thou-
sands of co-operative groups in America.
The foundations of Christianity were laid on the
economic groundwork of these Co-operative Groups.
The numerous Gods of these groups were done away
with in the presence of The One God, The Universal
Father.
National barriers were swept away by the fact of
Universal Brotherhood.
In the vision of Christianity, humanity was one.
A great family—an organic whole, and Christianity
aimed to serve the whole. The same is true of the
UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan. It is universal, be
cause its aim is to serve the whole.
Chapter Seven
THE GRAND ILLUSION
The Profit System
(Professor H. A. Overstreet, head of the
Department of Philosophy in the College of
the City of New York, in his book entitled
"About Ourselves," or "Psychology For
Normal People," in showing how fictions are
built up, uses, in substance, the following
illustrations : )
AWOMAN sits in the dining room of a comfort
able home waiting for her husband. The dinner
is on the table. It is well cooked and looks good.
The woman is middle aged. She looks at the clock
and says, "I wonder what is the matter with John.
He is now half an hour late." She walks to the win
dow and looks down the street, but there is no sign
of the husband. Her imagination begins to work
and she thinks that he might have been run over
by an automobile.
She waits nervously for another half hour. Still
he does not come. "If he is delayed in the office
he ought to have telephoned me. Here I am slaving
in the kitchen to prepare a nice meal for him. Now
it is cold. He ought to think about me. I am afraid
he is beginning to neglect me."
Ugly suspicions begin to multiply in her mind.
She begins to picture him accompanied by his stenog
rapher, or some other woman, enjoying himself at
a cabaret. She hastily suppresses the thought, but
it persists in coming back into her consciousness.
Her emotions get the best of her reason, for John
is now two hours late.
180 PLENOCRACY
She is now extremely nervous. The tension is
becoming stronger. She picks up the telephone, but
there is no response to her call. He is not in the
office—so the poor woman, caught in the whirlwind
of her suspicions, builds up a false picture of her
husband. The picture of the real John disappears
from her mind and a purely fictional John takes its
place.
She accepts the illusion that she has built up.
Finally she hears the key turn in the lock and John
enters. John was delayed by a traffic jam and before
he has time to explain the delay, she says, "You
ought to be ashamed of yourself. Here I have been
waiting for you two hours and the dinner is cold.
Why did you not telephone me?"
John tries to explain the delay. The explanation
is not satisfactory. The wife's attitude towards her
husband is influenced by the false picture she has
built up. She tries to hide her feelings, but they
persist in coming up. She broods over the whole
situation and thinks, "Yes, I am not as young as
I used to be. My hair is getting gray and my youth
ful charms are fading. I am afraid that my hus
band's love for me is growing cold."
Slowly the fictional picture of her husband becomes
a fact in her mind. The reaction takes place in her
husband's mind. First he cannot understand his
wife's attitude. Then he begins to build up out of his
emotions a false picture of his wife. They continue
to live together, but they do not know each other. The
fictional pictures they have of each other are utterly
false, but they do not know it. The mists of the
illusion blind their eyes so they cannot see the real
man and the real woman.
THE GRAND ILLUSION 181
If they continue to live together, there is no genu
ine joy. As a general rule, however, the union is
dissolved in the divorce courts.
This is a simple illustration of the way we build up
fictions. This mental action is going on incessantly.
We are continually building up out of pure fiction
false pictures of our relatives, associates, friends,
enemies and our relations to the Universe.
In psychology this is known as thought projection.
We use this method to relieve ourselves of guilt by
transferring it to somebody else. We clothe some
body else with the garments of our own sins and
thus establish an alibi. For instance, if a man is
an evil doer and he is confronted with his guilt, he
says "Well I guess I am not the only one that is
guilty." By transferring his guilt, he hopes to gain
relief.
The business man who puts through a shady deal
will project his shadiness to others by saying,
"Everybody has his price. If I did not get the suck
ers' money, somebody else would. In fact, you must
do the other fellow first, or he will do you."
The man who is untrue in his marriage relation
ship, when confronted with his infidelity, relieves
himself of the guilt by shifting it to others. He says,
"It is human nature—we are all in the same boat."
If a man has the jaundice, everything he looks at is
yellow. Why? Because the poison of the disease
saturates his whole anatomy, including his eyes.
To the pure all things are pure, but to the impure
there is nothing pure. Even stainless purity itself
becomes, impure to the impure person. To my friends
I am an angel ; to my enemies I am a devil, but both
are wrong in their estimates. Why? Because my
182 PLENOCRACY
friends paint me with the brush of their devoted
affection, while my enemies paint me with the
brush of their soured hate. The wasp and the bee
suck nectar from the same flower. The wasp turns
it into poison: the bee into honey. The Sun never
sees a shadow. It is a blazing sphere of light and
it throws a beautiful light upon everything it
touches.
One of the most powerful instincts in human na
ture is the sex instinct. When this instinct is sup
pressed through obedience to artificial conventions
or religious creed, it will project itself in some fic
titious form to obtain gratification and sometimes
the results are written in terms of tragedy.
The following is a quotation taken from a book
by Paul Recher, called "Etudes Cliniques Sur he
Grande Hysteria." Page 816. "The signs of the
possession appeared in the Ursuline Cloister of Lon
don 1632-1639.
"The nuns accused a good looking priest of the
town by the name of Urbain Grandier of having be
witched them. The principal role in the epidemic
is played by Madame B, the Superior. She was a
proud woman of lively intellect and marked hys
terical temperament. The hallucinations began with
her. During the night a phantom appeared to her
in whom she recognized her deceased Father Con
fessor. The phantom explained to her that he had
simply come to console her and to instruct her about
matters which he had not time for during life.
"On the following night the phantom again ap
peared, but a change had taken place. He was no
longer her Father confessor. He assumed the form
of the handsome living priest, Urbain Grandier, who,
THE GRAND ILLUSION 183
changing his intentions with his countenance, spoke
to her and assailed her with questionable tenderness.
The sexual hallucinations of the Superior spread and
the majority of the nuns came under the same spell
and announced that they had nightly visits from
evil spirits, amongst them the same Urbain Grandier.
The priest was a clean, honest, honorable man and
was entirely innocent, but the Mother Superior and
the nuns were so completely controlled by the fic
tions of their own overwrought emotions that they
brought charges against the priest and on the testi
mony of all these deceived women he was convicted,
tortured and burnt to death at the stake."
The suppressed sex instincts of these women
found gratification in the fictional priest of their
dreams. They transferred their emotions to him
and then found satisfaction in seeing him suffer
death for their guilt.
A powerful sex instinct cannot be suppressed by
any form of convention or religious creed. Here is
a man born with a strong sex instinct. He lives a
licentious life and feeds this instinct until it becomes
powerful. It dominates his life. He is converted
and joins the church, but the sex complex is still
there demanding expression. To transfer his sense
of guilt, he becomes a reformer. He organizes a
Purity League and engages in a savage campaign
against obscene books, pictures and loose morals.
The sex complex finds abundant gratification in
hunting down and working with salaciousness and
by transferring his sex complex to others, the re
former finds supreme satisfaction in denouncing and
jailing the offenders.
18% PLENOCRACY
My purpose in setting down these illustrations is
to show how we can deceive ourselves by fictions
which arise out of suppressed emotions, or a per
verted imagination. In the ability of a perverted
imagination to create fictions we can find the ex
planation of persecution in all its forms.
For instance , in the early history of New England
the leading preachers believed that the devil was a
powerful person and that there was not a single
vestige of good in him. They believed that he pos
sessed all the powers and understood all the secrets
of Black Magic. They also believed that he could
impart these powers and reveal these secrets to
those who would commit their lives into his hands.
They believed that the devil invested some of his
followers with the power of the evil eye. If a person
with an evil eye looked upon a tree, it withered;
looked upon a cow, she ceased giving milk; looked
upon a person, they went into a decline. These
preachers were the recognized leaders in the colony.
In their attempts to explain crop failures, epi
demics of disease and other calamities, they attrib
uted them to the power of the evil eye. These ideas
were nothing but fictions, having no basis whatso
ever in reality. In fact, they were the results of ig
norance of the laws of Nature and the laws of psy
chology. These preachers were good sincere men, but
they were governed by the fictions which they them
selves created. Many innocent persons, mostly
women, were arrested, persecuted, tortured and suf
fered because these fictions existed in the minds of
their leaders and judges.
These same leaders in New England persecuted
the Quakers, the Episcopalians and the Baptists on
THE GRAND ILLUSION 185
the basis of a pure fiction. They believed that the
creed they had formulated contained the truth. Out
side of its limits there was no truth. To be saved
a man must accept their statements of truth, or he
was lost forever. All this was a pure illusion; a
mere fiction; a defense mechanism constructed out
of thought stuff that existed nowhere save in their
own consciousness.
These religious leaders accepted this fiction for
the truth. They were sincere honest men and be
cause of their sincerity and honesty they could not
tolerate any group that did not agree with them.
It is certainly clear to any man who can think, that
if these men did not believe that their creed pos
sessed all the truth, they would have had no desire
to force anybody to accept it. Because of their pro
found belief that their creed was the complete state
ment of the truth, they were intensely loyal, terrifi
cally sincere, and thoroughly honest. As the result
of this sincerity and loyalty, they whipped other re
ligious groups naked through the streets of Boston,
deprived them of their rights and drove them out
of the colony.
Such proceedings as arresting, persecuting and
torturing innocent women who were suspected of
being in league with the devil and whipping Quakers,
Episcopalians and Baptists because they could not
accept all the tenets of the dominant religious creed,
could not happen today. Scientific knowledge has
swept away the old fictions which made these things
possible.
Man has slowly progressed through the centuries
from fiction to fact. In fact, all forms of human
thinking originated in fiction. Man had no instru
186 PLENOCRACY
ments for delicate measurements. He was ignorant
of mathematics or the laws of logic. The only equip
ment he had was his five senses. Thrown into a
Universe where mighty forces were in constant
movement all around him—flood and fire, winds,
rain, earthquakes, the movements of the stars, the
coming of day and the succession of the seasons, life
and death —it was natural that man would build up
theory after theory to explain the nature of these
forces. These theories were mostly fictions—fig
ments of the imagination that had no roots in reality.
Primitive man's entire thought world was false
throughout. The pictures in his imagination were
all based upon his ignorance, his fears and his sus
picions. His thought systems were projections of
his ignorance, his fears and his suspicions. His re
ligions, his medicine, his philosophy, his government
were all projected fictions.
We call the thought systems of Ancient Greece and
Rome "MYTHOLOGY". The meaning of the word
"Mythology" is a collection of the myths, which
primitive people entertained in regard to God, the
phenomena of Nature, the origin of the Universe
and man, and the relationship man sustained to the
Universe. This entire thought system has been swept
away by the advance of scientific, or fact thinking.
All primitive peoples lived in a self
fabricated World of Thought that was
entirely false. They drew their opinions
of their surroundings from their own
desires and wishes instead of the facts
and Laws of the Universe itself. Their
thought systems were mostly defense
mechanisms erected around themselves
THE GRAND ILLUSION 187
to protect them from something that
did not exist in reality.
After the lapse of years, these thought projections
became fixed into rigid creeds, customs and laws and
formed the basis of different forms of civilization.
They were accepted as truth and any individual who
denied them was looked upon and dealt with as a
traitor and heretic. The fixation of wish thinking
into rigid creeds prevents human advance. The creed
interferes with expansion. The law of life is the
law of expansion, but the individual who takes the
lead and smashes through the iron ring of the creed
must suffer the consequences.
Take the case of Socrates, the great Greek Philoso
pher. He believed that all truth was the result of
doubt. His purpose was to replace fiction with
reality His logic was severe. He reasoned from
cause to effect. He demanded that all terms be cor
rectly defined. He demanded that all theories be
subjected to a rigid testing. Because of his attitude,
he was looked upon as an enemy of the existing
order. He was arraigned before the Judges and
condemned to death.
Another illustration may be found in the case of
Jesus, the great Galilean philosopher and seer. His
philosophy of the Universe and life was in its essence
a denial of the ideas which formed the structure of
the existing order of His day, and at the same time
a statement of the principles of a new order. He
demanded that these principles be subjected to a
vigorous testing. He said, "If any man will do
His will, he shall know of the doctrine whether
it be of God, or whether I speak of Myself." In
other words, "I claim that the principles I announce
188 PLENOCRACY
are expression of the will of God, or the laws of
life. The only way to find out whether I am
speaking the truth is to put these principles to work
in your life. If you do not get the results I claim
you will get, then you can say that I am wrong."
On another occasion he said, "By their fruits ye
shall know them. A tree is known by its fruits. Men
do not gather figs of thorns, or grapes of thistles."
In this statement he conveys the idea that all theories
and systems must be tested by their results upon
human life. If they expand, enrich and strengthen
life, they are good. If they narrow, pauperize and
weaken life, they are bad. All theories must be sub
jected to vigorous test by experiment. This is the
inductive method. Bacon has been looked upon as
the Founder of the Inductive method, but Jesus
stated this method many centuries before Bacon was
born. Professor William James and Rudolph Eucken,
the German philosopher, both stated the same prin
ciple in a different way. Both James and Eucken
say that the riddle of the Universe is solved through
life and action.
Eucken says, "That we can attain certainty
through action of much that cannot be justified on
rational grounds and that the problems of life are
solved by the life process itself." In other words,
the plan is to put the theory to work in your life
and the results will show you whether it is good or
bad.
In His public utterances and private instructions
Jesus affirmed this principle. Bathed in the light
of this great truth, He saw that the economic, gov
ernmental and religious systems of his age were
mere fictions fabricated out of the selfish desires of
THE GRAND ILLUSION 189
the leaders in Church and State and projected into
the consciousness of the people. The saturation of
the public mind with these fictions kept the people
in ignorance and made them easy subjects for ex
ploitation. He aimed to do away with these fictions
and flood the minds of the people with the truth. He
said, "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall
make you free."
It was natural that the authorities who were the
leaders and beneficiaries of these false systems,
should turn against him. He was arrested, arraigned
and executed as a traitor and heretic. There is an
old expression which says, "When the pupil is ready,
the teacher appears."
When the great master of philosophy, Socrates,
taught in Athens, there were only a few who were
ready to receive it. Amongst them was Plato and
he embodied in his dialogs the teachings of Socrates,
where they were preserved to appear again as a
transforming power in the minds of men.
So when the great Master of religion taught in
Palestine there were only a few who were ready to
receive it. These few embodied his teachings in the
New Testament, where they are preserved to appear
again and again with increasing power in the trans
formation of humantiy. It is very interesting to go
back in thought to the middle ages and try to picture
the kind of a world that the people of that time
lived in. There was no thought of establishing a
Heaven upon Earth. Heaven and Hell were all in
the future. Heaven was a city with streets paved
with gold, bathed in perpetual sunshine. Hell was
a deep pit of burning brimstone into which all here
tics and unbelievers were thrown. The devil was
190 PLENOCRACY
the Lord of this underworld and it was his chief
delight to keep these fires flaming hot at all times.
The Earth was flat, square and had four corners.
The sky was a series of seven covers with spaces
between the covers. These spaces were peopled with
spirits, angels and arch-angels. Heaven was located
in the highest space.
All the thought systems of that age were based
upon pure fictions. They were an ignorant and dirty
crowd. They knew nothing about sanitary science
and when a devastating epidemic like the Black
Plague swept them into the grave by the millions,
they attributed it to the action of an angry God.
They lived, moved and had their being in a thought
atmosphere comprised of nothing but fictions. This
fictional world and the order of society based on it
has disappeared entirely.
The victory was not won in a day. The struggle
between fact and fiction continued through many
weary centuries. The advance of civilization has
always resulted from the extension of the realm of
fact thinking. So long as fictions dominate the minds
of the majority, so long humanity stagnates.
The invention of instruments and machines was
one of the chief factors in dissolving these fictions.
A machine cannot be wished into existence. The man
who makes it must grapple with the tough conditions
of reality. He must meet them with honesty and
efficiency. He will never succeed if he refuses to
obey the way the force works that he is trying to
harness. To build a machine, a man must come
square up against the real nature of the elements
that are in the Universe. Man lifted himself out of
slavery and barbarism by inventing different tools,
THE GRAND ILLUSION 191
instruments and machines. The process of making
these tool equipments was a liberal education in fact
thinking. Through the use of these machines man
has extended the power of his five senses and multi
plied the amount of his power to an almost unlimited
degree. So the printing press, the mariners com
pass, the telescope, the microscope, the steam engine
and the test tube, swept away all the fictions of the
middle ages and introduced the new era of science.
To be sure, all the people never move forward on
an even breasted march. Nations, groups and indi
viduals lag behind. The advance guard is always
composed of only a few progressive thinkers. The
great masses of the people enjoy the benefits of the
work of the few advanced thinkers and under the
inspiration of the ideas and inventions created by
the few, the masses slowly advance to higher stages
of enlightenment and civilization.
We have said that when fictions rule a people,
there can be no advance. The reason is found in
the fact that a fiction has no roots in reality. The
life of the Universe is not in it. The energy of the
Universe does not and cannot flow through it. The
man who invented the fiction, or the group that has
espoused it for their own benefit, must give the fic
tion life. They must empty themselves into the fic
tion, or it will wither away.
A fiction has no connection with the Universe. It
exists nowhere save in the isolated consciousness of
its creator and it depends for its life and continued
existence upon the belief of its inventor. An idea
that has its roots in reality exists in the nature of
things. It is independent of all external phenomena.
It is independent of all human personalities. It is a
192 PLENOCRACY
living part of the real Universe. If all human be
ings were swept out of existence the idea would still
exist. An idea or plan that has its roots in reality
is reality and is universal. It operates in all worlds
and in all localities. It is Eternal. It operates with
equal ease in all ages, both past and future and can
not die. It is axiomatic. It will adjust itself to any
condition.
It is in its essence unifying and cooperative, be
cause it is a living part of the Universe itself. The
central living principle that pervades the Universe
is unifying and cooperative. With these considera
tions before us, we can see that any system, eco
nomic or otherwise, that is based on fictions cannot
continue to exist. Its life is furnished by those who
believe in it. The present economic system, known
as the Old Capitalism based on fictions, is wither
ing away. The generation that created it, believed
in it and gave it life, is dying with it.
We are ready for a new system based on reality.
This system is already in operation. It is known as
PLENOCRACY, or the UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan.
How was the Old System, known as the Old Capi
talism, built up? What are the fictions upon which
it is based? What are the factors and forces that
destroyed it?
As an illustration of how a system is built up,
take the Caste System of India. The Caste System
is a system of control and exploitation based on a
fiction. The fiction was the projection of the desire
or wish of the strong men who were the leaders in
the realms of Government and Economics. Many
centuries ago a powerful Aryan tribe crossed the
THE GRAND ILLUSION 198
Himalaya mountains and conquered the Peninsula
of India. Thus they became the rulers of millions
of the docile brown men who inhabited that country.
These Aryan Rulers were powerful, ruthless, keen
and cunning.
To maintain and retain the power for themselves
and their descendants, they established the Caste
System. This system was an arbitrary division of
the population into classes. These divisions were
rigid and unchangeable. A person born into a class
must remain there. He could never move outside
of its limits. This arbitrary division was based
upon the following fiction. Brahma was their God.
He was an omnipotent man. He was the source of
all life and the various classes of the population
emerged from the different parts of his body. The
conquerors and rulers —that is, the warriors and
nobility, came from his head. After them from the
various sections of his anatomy came the priests,
then the merchants, then the farmers and so on
down to the class that came out of his feet. The
millions of the conquered race came out of his feet.
Being born of the Feet of Brahma, they were only
fit to be slaves and denied of all rights and privi
leges. This Caste System was an integral part of the
religion which these powerful Rulers invented. It
was a pure fiction invented by these powerful Rulers
to keep the masses docile. The masses believed that
they came from the Feet of Brahma, therefore it
was Brahma's will that they should be slaves and
content with their lot. This was a shrewd and pow
erful formula. It has been in successful operation
for many centuries.
194 PLENOCRACY
When England conquered India she did not at
tempt to destroy this system. The East Indian
Company was a Corporation engaged in the busi
ness of selling goods. India with its immense popu
lation and hot climate was a rich market for the sale
of all kinds of goods, especially cotton goods. The
leaders of the East Indian Company had their eyes
set on the immense profits that resulted from having
a monopoly of furnishing these millions with goods.
England was in India to make money, not to reform
a religious system. In fact, the Caste System was
favorable to the program of the East Indian Com
pany. The leaders of that Company joined forces
with the Rulers and Princes of the various provinces.
Through them they sold their goods to the millions
at big prices and divided the profits.
At the present time Mahatma Ghandi and his asso
ciates are trying to break the power of this projected
fiction which has kept millions in the chains of
bondage for centuries. It is a difficult task to knock
a fiction that has become fixed, out of the conscious
ness of the people of a Nation. Ghandi and his
associates have tackled a task of enormous magni
tude and extreme difficulty, but he is willing to sac
rifice his life in the struggle. His courage and de
termination are to be admired. He will succeed, but
it will be many years before it is an accomplished
fact.
The Caste System of India is another expression
of the old fiction known as "The Divine Right of
Kings."
There never has been, and there is not now, any
person who is good enough or wise enough to assume
control of the lives and destinies of a group of hu
THE GRAND ILLUSION 195
man beings. Every normal individual is a centre
of energy and inherent in his nature is the principle
of self determination. The Divine Right of Kings
was a fiction invented by powerful individuals who
wished to kill, enslave, rob and exploit the people
under the sanction of the Almighty. Being the rep
resentative of God, the King could do no wrong.
All his acts, including the most outrageous crimes,
were sanctified by his office.
This hoary old fiction ruled the peoples of the
world for many centuries. The first blow it re
ceived was on the fields of Runnymede, where the
English Barons forced King John to sign Magna
Charta. The second blow was in the year 1649
when the sovereign people of England executed King
Charles II. The third blow was delivered by the
founders of the American Republic when they ar
raigned King George, took the political power out
of his hands and distributed it amongst the people.
The fourth blow was delivered by the French people
when they stormed the Bastile, arrested and be
headed Louis XIV.
The fifth blow was when the Nations fought the
world war to "make the world safe for Democracy."
The sixth blow was when the Russian people exe
cuted their Emperor and all his family. Since that
time many Kings have been dethroned. Notwith
standing all these heavy blows, the hoary old fiction
is still in the ring. In Japan the Mikado is still
looked upon as the Representative of the Gods, hav
ing absolute power over the lives and liberties of
his subjects, and we have in other Nations shadowy
representatives of the old fiction shorn of much of
their power by Parliaments and Dictators.
196 PLENOCRACY
Illustrations could be multiplied, showing how fic
tions originated and how the ruling class used them
to keep the people under control, exploit and rob
them for their own enrichment.
Enough has been said, however, to furnish a basis
for an intelligent discussion of the growth of the
Old Capitalism —the nature of the fictions that un
derlie it and the forces and factors that are destroy
ing it.
The rise of the Old Capitalism was not deliberately
planned. It was the natural outgrowth of the un
disciplined desires of a few powerful, keen, cunning
thinkers. We have shown how the Caste System of
India was created. This system was based upon a
fiction. When this fiction became fixed in the con
sciousness of the people, it gave the shrewd, power
ful men who invented it, complete control of the
material resources of the country and at the same
time, complete control of the lives and liberties of
the masses of the people.
We have also shown how the King System was
created. This system, as we have shown, was also
based upon a fiction. When this fiction became fixed
in the general consciousness of the people, it gave
the Kings complete control of the lands of the coun
try over which they ruled and the lives and destinies
of the people who lived in the country. The King
was the representative of the almighty. He had a
crown stuck on his noble brow. He wore the royal
purple. He carried a sceptre. He was infallible.
He was the source of all power. He was the Divine
Ambassador. All his acts were sacred. This was
done to keep the people docile so that they would
submit to exploitation without protest.
THE GRAND ILLUSION 197
If I can control the stream of ideas
that flows to another man's mind for
a specified period of time, I will control
that man's actions.
He may think that he is free in his thoughts and
actions. In fact, if I am a shrewd man, I want him
to think that he is free. Nevertheless, he is obeying
me. Men are governed by their beliefs. I have fur
nished him with the ideas he believes.
No system can last unless it is backed by the be
liefs of the majority. The fiction underlying the
Caste System of India is fixed in the consciousness
of the people. It pervades the thought atmosphere
into which they were born. They drink it in with
every breath. It is not necessary to pass any laws
to enforce it. It is self-enforceable. It is their Re
ligion. The thrones of the masters of India, based
on a fiction which became a truth, could not be
shaken. For many centuries the fiction of The
Divine Right of Kings rested on the same basis.
The dynamite of truth blew up this fiction and it
will also eventually blow up the fiction underlying
the Caste System.
At this point I will give some illustrations taken
from my book, "The Science of Mastership," page
131, of how this law works. I say there : "The kind
of character a man has depends in the majority of
cases upon the nature of the thought atmosphere
into which he was born and in which he lives up to
the age of ten or twelve. In the matter of Religion,
for instance, —a child is born into a strict Moham
medan family. The very moment he emerges he is
bathed in an atmosphere of Mohammedan religious
198 PLENOCRACY
thought. When he becomes conscious of himself, he
is taught that there is one God, Allah ; that Mahomet
is his prophet and that the Koran is the only divine
revelation of truth.
"The rituals, the continual prayers, the readings
from the Koran, the feast and the fast days, the gar
ments of the Priests, the mosques, and pilgrimages;
in fact the entire paraphernalia of teaching and
worship, creates an atmosphere so strong that it
sweeps into his conscious and subconscious brains in
mighty waves, giving the cell groups therein a Mo
hammedan religious trend. Complexes are created
in these cell groups, filled with Mohammedan reli
gious thought, sensations and memories.
"After he reaches a certain age, this becomes per
manent. Anything he sees, hears, smells, tastes, or
feels, that is not in accordance with his creed, is re
pulsive to him. He absorbed his religion just as he
did his language. In fact, he could not do other
wise, for there was nothing else in the atmosphere
that surrounded him. His complexes became auto
matic; his habits permanent. He is proud of his
Religion and is convinced that he and his crowd are
the only people in the world that have the truth.
This explains the action of the Mohammedan Gen
eral who, when he took the city of Alexandria in
battle, commanded that the immense library con
taining the choicest treasures of the wisdom of the
ancient Sages be burned. When he was asked why
the library should be burned, he said, 'The Koran
contains all the truth. If the books in the library dis
agree with the Koran, they ought to be burned; if
they agree with the Koran, the Koran is sufficient
without them.'
THE GRAND ILLUSION 199
"Again take a child born into a strict orthodox
Jewish family. As soon as he emerges, he is en
closed in an atmosphere of strict Judaism. As soon
as he becomes aware of himself, he is taught that
Jehovah is the only God and Moses is his prophet,
and that the Jewish Scriptures are the only divine
revelation. He goes with prompt regularity to the
Synagogue, listens to the rituals, repeats the prayers,
and learns the precepts of Judaism. He is taught
that the Jews are God's favorite people. He ab
sorbs all the ideas in the atmosphere without ques
tion and becomes a strict unbending orthodox Jew.
The cell groups in his brain are stained with ortho
dox Jewish thought. They become complexes and
the man settles down into fixed habits.
"How often have I noticed the old Jews who have
reached the stage of permanency. The garments,
the beard, the features, the walk; in fact, the entire
physical appearance, all reveal the workings of this
law. The old man has become the incarnation of
his creed. Any system of ideas that are not in ac
cordance with his complexes are repugnant to him.
The incessant conflict between the Jew and the Ara
bian can be explained on this basis."
Many other illustrations could be presented, show
ing how all kinds of complexes are built up. So we
can clearly see that it is an exceedingly difficult task
to destroy a complex in an individual, or a group,
after it has become fixed.
We do not assert that an individual or social com
plex cannot be changed. It can. There are two
processes. One is gradual introduction of the light
of truth. The other is by the shock of some great
event that shakes the very foundation of life; such
200 PLENOCRACY
as a Revolution, or a sudden depression such as we
had in 1929. Over night we were tumbled from the
sunny heights of prosperity to the gloomy depths of
depression. This sudden shock destroyed our belief
in the fictions upon Which the Old Capitalism was
built.
When the fictions which we were led to believe
as truth were working, not naturally, but driven by
hot air and high pressure salesmanship; when the
stomach was full of good victuals and the larder was
well stored for tomorrow; when the prospects for
prosperity looked good; when we were buying se
curities that promised to take us all into the million
dollar class, we did not have time to think. It was
a beautiful golden dream. We did not want to wake
up. We were all under the spell and witchery of
that wily old wizard gold. We were controlled by
the fiction of easy money. That fiction had become
a complex and had taken directive control of our
lives. In the mad race, driven onward by the fiction,
we plunged over the edge of the precipice.
At the foot of the precipice we woke up, looked
around and found that we had nothing; that the
beautiful world we had been living in was nothing
but a dream —as Shakespeare said, "The baseless
fabric of a vision" —a world of make believe based on
nothing but fictions.
Cold statistics reveal the fact that over thirty
million seemingly intelligent American citizens fol
lowed the dancing phantom to their financial ruin.
The fiction of easy money became fixed in the con
sciousness of the crowd. To them it became a truth
and like a stampede of wild buffaloes on the plains,
nothing could stop the mad rush. Did this just hap
THE GRAND ILLUSION 201
pen, or was it the result of deliberate planning on
the part of the Old Capitalism? Things do not just
happen in this Universe: they do not come by
chance. Every effect has a cause.
Back behind the scenes sitting in the shadows was
the Old Capitalism, cool, calm, calculating and cun
ning. From its brain came the fictions that we ac
cepted as facts. It has made us accept fictions as
facts and at the same time tried to make us accept
facts as fiction—all to accomplish its own purpose
to obtain ownership and control of the means of life.
This cunning old system has used every means at
its command to make us believe that it does not
exist. It has purchased the brains of skilled press
agents and so-called political economists to proclaim
the idea that there never has been and there is not
now an organization whose purpose is to gain own
ership and control of the means of life. Such a thing
is merely the fiction in the brain of some wild eyed
revolutionist.
If an organization whose ostensible purpose is to
gain ownership and control of the means of life
would publish its purpose, it would not get very far.
If a burglar would let you know of his intention of
robbing your home, you would take immediate steps
to protect your valuables. So this cunning old sys
tem tried to disguise itself to hide its identity. How
ever its numerous attempts to camouflage itself has
failed. In recent years it has been dragged out into
the light; photographed, measured, weighed and
finger printed. Unfortunately the identification was
made after much damage had been wrought.
We have shown in another chapter in this book
that this Old Capitalism is the natural outgrowth of
202 PLENOCRACY
unbridled individualism and unbridled individualism
always tends to monopoly. We have shown how in
the United States it has reached out and gathered
to itself an almost complete monopoly of the wealth
of the country. In order to do this, it had to create
a thought atmosphere favorable to its purpose. Here
we have another illustration of what is known in
psychology as thought projection.
The masses do not think. The crowd is emotional
and suggestible. Some person has said that the
average man's head is like an egg: it partakes of
the flavor of its environment. If eggs are placed
amongst onions, they will taste like onions. So one
human head, or a number of human heads, when
placed in a certain atmosphere drink in the atmos
phere and are governed by the dominant ideas in it.
It makes no difference whether these ideas are true
or false.
Douglas Jerrold, an English Satirist, said in re
gard to law, that "law was anything stoutly affirmed
and strongly defended." So we say that anything,
even the baldest fiction, when it is stoutly affirmed
and strongly defended becomes a fact to the average
crowd.
The suggestibility of the Masses is one of the
chief doctrines in the creed of the Old Capitalism. No
one knows this better than it does and it has handled
it with amazing skill. The dominant wish of this old
system was monopoly. It could not project that wish
directly. Such a pill would be too bitter. So it had
to sugar coat it. So to carry out its purpose, it in
vented a number of fictions.
The central and most alluring fiction which it in
vented was the doctrine of profits. Henry Pratt Fair
THE GRAND ILLUSION 203
child, Professor of Sociology in the New York Uni
versity, has written a remarkable book called "Profits
or Prosperity." Uninfluenced by authority detached
from all preconceived conceptions, Professor Fair-
child proceeds to diagnose the present system of pro
duction and distribution to find out the cause of its
repeated breakdowns. After a short and illuminat
ing sketch of the rise of the Old Capitalism, he says,
"So there came to be recognized the four conven
tional factors of production familiar to every stu
dent of elementary economics —Land, Labor, Capital
and Organization. Now in a society dominated by
private ownership and competition each of these fac
tors must be rewarded, or it will not be supplied.
The study of these characteristic rewards constitutes
a large part of economics. Each has its familiar and
distinctive name. The reward of land is—Rent. The
reward of Labor is—Wages. The reward of Capital
is—Interest and the reward of Management is—but
now also we find ourselves in difficulty. The econo
mists become vague, indefinite and confused. The
classical trumpet gives forth an uncertain sound. The
text books begin to talk randomly about profits, sal
aries, residual shares, compensation for risk, wages
of management and what have you. We quickly dis
cover that there exists no single generally accepted
term for the characteristic compensation paid for or
ganization or management." Since the so-called econo
mists can give you no answer to this question, Pro
fessor Fairchild proceeds to find an answer to it. And
he reaches the conclusion that "A business is a com
bination of Land, Labor, Capital and Management,
organized and existing for the purpose of creating
wealth and rendering service, the ultimate, though
20U PLENOCRACY
not necessarily the immediate, purpose being the sat
isfaction of human wants."
He says that "this business is an entity, a thing of
itself and, according to our conceptions of property,
must be owned by somebody. Who then owns it? Cer
tainly not the laborer ; and not the landlord as such ;
and not the manager. Does the capitalist own the
business? The answer of many persons, laymen and
experts would probably be 'yes'. But it should be
clear by now that this answer would be completely
false. Capital is just as distinct a factor in produc
tion as any of the other three. The capitalist as cap
italist does not own the business."
On the basis of this reasoning the Professor finds
a fifth factor in production and he calls that fifth fac
tor "Ownership". So then the reward of the Landlord
is rent; the reward of the Capitalist is Interest; the
reward of the Laborer is Wages; the reward of the
Manager is Salary and the reward of the owner is
Profits. These items, rent, interest, wages, and
salary, together with the cost of advertising, tele
phone, office expense, etc., enters into the cost of
production. The owner of the business must pay
all these items. To get the money to pay them,
he must sell the products. If he sells the products
for what he has paid out in producing them and
no more, he has made no profits and since profits
are his pay, he gets no pay. Without pay he cannot
continue the business. The owner must eat; he must
wear clothes; he must own or rent a house; so he
must sell the products at a profit to live. Now it is
clear that the difference between the cost of produc
tion and the price at which the production is sold is
profit. So then there is no real value in profit in itself.
THE GRAND ILLUSION 205
Profit is then a tax which the owner of a product
makes the purchaser pay, for which the purchaser
gets nothing of value in return.
The price that the purchaser pays contains two
elements —the cost of production and the profit. The
cost of production represents substantial value. The
profit represents no real value.
The Old Capitalism, which, as we have seen, is the
child of an unbridled individualism, lives, moves and
has its being in an atmosphere of profits. A fiction is
something that we think is, but it isn't. Profit is fic
tion and any system built on fiction cannot endure in
a Universe that is pervaded by reality.
Professor Fairchild says : "Modern business, apart
from any hypocrisy of philanthropy or mouthing of
'Service', is conducted exclusively for profit." Now
let us see what this fiction has done to us. Professor
Fairchild has a chapter in his book on the "Fallacy of
Profits" and in this chapter he uses a simple illus
tration to make his explanation clear. He imagines a
small isolated self-contained community. One fine
morning a man by the name of Jones arrives in this
town with two million dollars. Jones comes to the
conclusion that this town would be a good place to
build a plant to manufacture automobiles.
Jones himself knows something about manufactur
ing automobiles, but upon inquiry he finds a man in
town by the name of Smith who knows all about
manufacturing automobiles. Jones and Smith confer
and Jones employes Smith at a handsome salary to
take complete charge of the manufacture. So this
factor of the production —the Manager —is provided.
The next factor is land. The factory cannot be built
on the edge of a cloud. Smith knows a man by the
206 PLENOCRACY
name of Brown who owns a piece of land that would
be an ideal factory site. Brown rents this piece of
land to Jones for a certain rental each year.
The next factor is capital. This is needed to build
and equip the factory. Jones believes in using as far
as possible the other fellow's money. So Smith knows
a man in town by the name of Black who is a capital
ist. Jones borrows a large sum of money from Black
and agrees to pay a certain amount on the principal
and the interest each year.
The next factor is Labor. Smith, the Manager,
rounds up the laborers and the amount which Jones
has to pay out in Labor amounts to $1,000,000 per
year.
Everything is set. Jones owns a business and that
is all he does own. He does not own the land. He does
not own the managing ability. He does not own the
labor. He does not own the capital. All these factors
Jones has hired for a specified sum and a specified
time. All that Jones owns is a business. At the end
of the year the result of the operation of all these
factors is one thousand automobiles that cost
$2,000.00 each. By this time Jones has spent the
$2,000,000 that he started with in salaries, wages, in
terest, rent, equipment and incidentals.
Jones has nothing left of the original $2,000,000.
Yet he has gone into this enterprise to make money.
What does he own? The only thing Jones owns is the
automobiles. He owns the business, therefore he owns
the product. The manager does not own the product;
Labor does not own it ; the Capitalist does not own it ;
the Landlord does not own it. Jones is the owner and
he must pay the manager, the laborers, the capitalist
THE GRAND ILLUSION 207
and the landlord out of the money he gets for the sale
of the automobiles.
Now if Jones sells the one thousand automobiles
for $2,000.00 each, he will get his $2,000,000 back
and no more. But the community is a self contained
community and the income it obtained came from
Jones. Jones cannot sell his cars for a profit; the in
come of the community won't allow it. The only thing
for Jones to do is to sell a part of his automobiles for
enough to cover the $2,000,000 which it has cost him
to produce them. The balance left is his profits. Sup
pose Jones sells four-fifths of his cars at a price
which covers the cost of production; he will have
one-fifth of the cars left. This is his profit. Now Jones
must eat; he must wear clothes; he must have a
home; he must have heat. He cannot use these auto
mobiles for these purposes. They must be turned into
money. He tries to sell them to the people of other
communities, but they are well supplied. Besides,
these communities have built thick and high tariff
walls against foreign automobiles. What must poor
Jones do? He cannot starve and he is too proud to
steal.
There is just one way out for Jones. He is the big
man in the community, so he gets out a charter for a
Bank and establishes credit money. To save himself
from one fiction, Jones invents another fiction. Jones
hires high pressure salesmen, advertises in the
papers, tells the people that their credit is good.
Those who have not bought cars crowd into Jones'
office. Jones loans them credit money to purchase and
demands real estate and other things of genuine
value as security for the loans. Business booms —
Jones is prosperous—everybody is happy.
208 PLENOCRACY
This thing happens year after year until after a
while Jones owns everything of value in the com
munity. Everybody is in debt to Jones and pays him
interest for the credit money he has loaned them.
Jones in his eagerness to amass profits, has extended
credit away beyond all reasonable limits. It has gone
up to the point where it is one hundred times greater
than the real value of all the property in the com
munity. Such a condition cannot continue. The bubble
bursts and the whole community, including Jones
himself, is financially ruined. This furnishes a simple
illustration of what happened in the United States.
The reward of the owner of a business under the
Old Capitalism is profits. He must sell his product
for more than it cost him to produce it to get his re
ward.
Professor Fairchild says that "The key to the situ
ation in America is in the nature of profits and the
system of ownership. It needs no argument to show
that the more widely ownership is distributed, the
greater is the chance of owners exchanging their sur
plus goods with one another and eventually disposing
of them all without exceeding the consumptive de
sires of any.
"If ownership were perfectly evenly divided, and
the product owned on an exact per capita basis, there
would be no excess product at all, unless the society
were so mad that it kept on working feverishly be
cause it had nothing else to do, but then there would
be no profits either, for when everybody owns just
as much as you do, you cannot make anything out of
your ownership. Ownership of business then becomes
indistinguishably merged with management, labor,
land and capital.
THE GRAND ILLUSION 209
"Profits then are and must be limited
to the owner's capacity for consump
tion.
"This leads to the final conclusion that the possibil
ity of profits increases in direct proportion with the
increase in the number of owners. But as the recipi
ents of profits increase, the per capita profits dimin
ish until they cease to be a significant motive. Thus
we arrive at the seeming paradox, which neverthe
less contains the vital principle of the matter. Gen
eral profits are possible only when they are so widely
dispersed that they cease to be any profits at all."
According to this line of argument, the distribu
tion of ownership will do away with The Profit Sys
tem. The centralization of ownership will also in time
do away with the Profit System. In fact, that is what
has happened in America. The Old Capitalism, the
outgrowth of an unbridled individualism, has reached
the peak of its powers in America. The ownership
and control of the factors of production have gradu
ally been concentrated into the hands of the few. The
proofs of this have been furnished in other chapters
in this book.
At this point as a further confirmation of the state
ment made above, I will quote what James W. Gerard
said in an article written for the Literary Digest of
September 6th, 1930. This man Gerard was our Am
bassador to Germany and was at the time he wrote
this article one of the leading American capitalists.
In this article he gives the names of sixty-four men
and he says that these sixty-four men rule the in
dustrial and political destinies of America. In regard
to the power which these men wield, he says, "These
men rule by virtue of their ability. They themselves
210 PLENOCRACY
are too busy to hold political office, but they deter
mine who shall hold such office. The actual power
behind the throne is wielded by men whose wealth
and important industrial positions in the Nation give
them a permanent influence in American life, where
as Statesmen, Diplomats and Politicians owe their
influence to the offices they hold and are usually
shorn of their power when they retire."
So the ownership and control of the powers of gov
ernment and the economic system has been concen
trated in the hands of the few. The same thing that
happened to Mr. Jones and the community he lived
in, in the illustration furnished by Professor Fair-
child, has happened to the owners of business in
America and the masses of the people.
To gratify the insatiable desire for profits, the
owners of the business had to invent the credit sys
tem. In other words, they had to invent another fic
tion to attempt to save themselves from the conse
quences of the first fiction. The inevitable crash came
in 1929. We are sinking deeper and deeper in the
quagmire of debt. Two hundred thirty-five Billions of
so-called credit money, or debt, with only four and
one-half Billions of real money in gold to redeem it.
We have already sketched our deplorable condition
from various angles in other parts of this book, so it
is not necessary for us to elaborate any further on
this part of the subject.
Looking at it from another viewpoint, I will quote
from a short article from the pen of the able writer,
Elsie Robinson. The article is called "The Cheated
Generation." She says, "We, of the older generation,
have spent fifty years playing around and pampering
our own greedy selves. We have worked hard, but we
THE GRAND ILLUSION 211
have not thought hard. We have refused to consider
where all our machines were driving us; what our
war extravagances would impose on us; what must
come from inflated sales, uncontrolled production,
concentration of wealth. We have not reckoned up
the cost of our silliness, our selfishness, our stupidity,
our laziness and inhumanity. And now the day of
reckoning has come and the generation that is fol
lowing us must pay the bill.
"If it were only a question of paying it in dollars
and cents, it would be unfair enough, but they must
put in something infinitely more precious than money
in collateral which can never be redeemed. They
must pay our bills with blighted dreams and broken
hearts; with foiled ambitions and frustrated ro
mance; with twisted minds, starved bodies and
warped souls.
"We are to blame. We allowed this world to drift
into the mess it is in. We engaged in that war. We
permitted the cancerous development of Capitalism.
We built the machine—Frankenstein —and the com
ing generation must pay."
This is a just and able criticism. The generation
that is now passing from the stage of action; that
has stupidly absorbed the myths and fictions of the
Old Capitalism and allowed it to fasten on the neck
of the coming generation the millstone of a gigantic
debt, has been a complete failure. It is our opinion,
however, that the coming generation will not remain
crushed under this heavy burden. Why should the
children who are innocent be forced to pay the pen
alties for the crimes of their fathers? Why should
they be compelled to pay back to the shylocks of the
212 PLENOCRA C Y
world the vast sums of money they advanced to the
Nations in the world war?
It is our opinion that a new order will take the
place of the old. A new economic system will take the
place of the Old Capitalism. The fictions and illusions
of the old scheme of things will be swept away for
ever. They will disappear just as the ancient Myth
ology of Greece disappeared. They will vanish just as
completely as Feudalism has vanished.
The search for reality is now on. It is being pur
sued by thousands of clear eyed thinkers. Authority
has been dethroned. Superstition has been ham
strung. The consciousness of the coming generation
will be flooded with the light of truth. All the ancient
rubbish, myths and fictions of the old system will dis
solve into nothingness. Creative intelligence in place
of moronic stupidity will sit in the chairs of author
ity in all realms of human thought and action.
A New Economic System based on Reality will
take the place of the Old Capitalism, which was based
on fiction. j
This New System is already is exist
ence and operation and is known as
"PLENOCRACY" or the Science of
Creating Abundance for All.
In the chapter on "PLENOCRACY" in this book,
we have discussed the philosophy of this New Sys
tem. The light of reality flowing from the principles
of this New System, causes the illusions and shadowy
myths of the Old Capitalism to vanish, just as the
mists vanish before the rays of the rising Sun.
Chapter Eight
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH
'HE History of the Jews contains many incidents
■*-
that can be made helpful to us in solving our
problems. Palestine was their home. They were a
nation of farmers when they conquered this terri
tory. The land was divided up amongst the families
in small portions and the laws were so arranged by
their great leader, Moses, that each family was pro
tected in the ownership of his land.
Interest on money which is the basis
of our present system was prohibited
under heavy penalty. Speculation in
all its forms was prohibited. Profit and
exploitation of each other in any form
was prohibited and any member of the
community who violated these laws was
severely punished.
It was impossible for any family in this commun
ity to lose their land. If through mismanagement
or any other method they should lose it, it was re
stored to them at the beginning of every fiftieth
year. There were no large cities in Palestine. It
was a land flowing with milk and honey. The Jordan
River flowed through the centre and supplied the
water for irrigation. Every family lived under their
own vine and fig tree. Their simple civilization was
based on the land, individual ownership and coopera
tion. So long as they complied with these laws they
were happy and prosperous.
But they departed from first principles, moved
from the farms into cities. Farming or creating real
2U PLENOCRACY
wealth from the land was looked upon as common
drudgery. Those who possessed superior brains
decided that it was easier to corral the money that
was already created and loan it out to others at a
heavy interest. With the introduction of these false
methods degeneration began.
The Nation lost all the qualities which gave it
endurance and stability and became the easy prey
to its enemies. The Babylonians marched their army
into the country and with their mighty battering
rams they smashed down the walls of Jerusalem,
over-threw its temple and palaces, took possession
of all the money and treasures and having tied the
able bodied together two by two, they marched them
down into Babylon where they were enslaved. The
dark clouds of depression rested on this proud people
in bondage in a foreign land. They hung their harps
upon the willows and wept as they remembered Zion.
Amongst those who were carried over to Babylon
and made slaves was a young man named Nehemiah.
He was placed in some department in the palace of
the Emperor. He was a young man of splendid
appearance, good mental ability and moral character.
Somehow he attracted the attention of the Emperor
and he made him his cup bearer.
These ancient autocrats lived in an atmosphere of
fear of assassination and fear of being poisoned.
The supreme function of the King's cup bearer was
to taste the food and wine in the presence of the
King so that he could partake of it without damage
to himself.
This young Jew was patriotic. He loved his native
country and he had a strong desire to go back to
Palestine and restore the city of Jerusalem, its walls,
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 215
its temple, its palaces, its religion and its economic
system. One day as he attended to his duties in the
King's chamber the King noticed that he was very
sad. "What is the matter with you today, Nehemiah,"
said the King. "You look sad." "My Lord and King,"
said Nehemiah, "I am very sad as I think of the
condition of my native land. I would indeed be
happy if you would allow me to return to my native
country and restore Jerusalem, its walls, its temple
and palaces; especially restore the religion and the
customs that gave us peace and prosperity. I would
be a happy man if you would grant me this privilege."
The King granted him the privilege and accom
panied by a number of compatriots like himself they
took the long journey from Babylon to Palestine.
Having arrived at Jerusalem they found it deserted
and a mass of ruins.
The first thing they had to do was to clear away
the debris. There were thousands of tons of debris
covering the foundations of the walls, the palaces
and the temple. The foundations were intact. The
stones constituting these foundations were dovetailed
into the rocks of the mountains on which Jerusalem
was originally built. The task confronting Nehemiah
and his associates was to shovel away the debris
that covered these foundations and build the city
and the temple as it was before. In other words—
Complete Restoration. With splendid courage,
amidst much opposition and discouragement, they
began the work and finished it.
This incident belongs to the past history of the
Jews, but it furnishes us with a good illustration of
the task that confronts us in America today.
216 PLENOCRACY
As the foundation stones of the walls, palaces and
temple of the City of Jerusalem were dovetailed into
the rocks in the hills on which Jerusalem was built,
so the foundation principles of the political system
on which the American system of government was
based, were dovetailed into the nature of things.
The men who laid these foundations were students
of natural law. In the matter of constructing a new
political system, they created nothing new. They
endeavored to follow nature to find out what she
had to say. "How does nature work?" was the ques
tion they asked. In following nature, they used the
lamp of reason. Ancient authority had no influence
over these men. The customs and methods of the
past did not sway them. They were definitely com
mitted to the task of organizing a political system
on the basis of natural law. They were of the opinion
that nature's laws could not be improved on. There
is, therefore, nothing man made nor artificial in the
political system they organized.
In the Declaration of Independence these brave
thinkers embodied the central principles of the sys
tem in the well known following language;
"We hold these truths to be self evi
dent: that all men are created equal;
that they are endowed by their creator
with certain inalienable rights; that
amongst these are life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness; that to secure
these rights, governments are insti
tuted amongst men."
The equality referred to in this statement is not
equality in capacity, it is equality in opportunity.
All political power previously was centralized in
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 217
the King. He ruled by Divine right. The founders
of the American system exploded the fiction of
Divine right; took the political power out of the
hands of the King and distributed it amongst the
people. By this act they put the determining power
in the hands of the individual.
Self determination of the individual is the thread
on which all the paragraphs of the Constitution are
strung. This idea is basic in all the departments of
the Universe. In the inorganic Universe, all the
elements that make up the inorganic substances are
the results of the combinations of individual atoms
and the basic atom is atom number one, or the hydro
gen atom. In the organic Universe, the basic element
is the cell, and all life forms are combinations of
these cells. So in making the individual the basis
of the political system, the founders of the American
system were marching in step with natural law.
Since all political power resides in the people, any
system of government that would fit the people and
be acceptable to them, must originate with them and
meet their consent. It must be a natural system
and must operate to give service to all the people
at all times and under all circumstances. Such a
government is like the human body. The human
body is a growth from within. It is a vehicle built
by the life force to protect the individual and give
him a vehicle for self expression. A government of
this kind is the expression of the desire for self
preservation. It is the answer to the demand of
this powerful instinct.
So then the American system of government is an
association of individuals who unite to create a gov
ernment which will protect the life and property
218 PLENOCRACY
of each individual and at the same time protect the
life and property of the entire body of citizens. The
main functions of such a government would be:
First: To keep the field of opportunity open to
each citizen for the exercise of his powers of mind
and body. This idea would impose upon the govern
ment the imperative duty of preventing monopolies
of all kinds on the part of individuals, companies,
or the government itself.
Second: This protection given the individual in
the field of opportunity, means that he is to be pro
tected in the free and full exercise of all his faculties.
This involves freedom of conscience, which means
the separation of church and state, complete toler
ance and complete religious freedom. This also in
volves freedom of thought. The intellect must be free
and the government must protect each citizen in this
freedom. It also means freedom of expression, which
means a free press, free assembly and free discussion.
It also means freedom of will. The government
must not interfere with the citizen in the field of
action so long as he does not infringe upon the
rights of others.
Third: When the individual goes into the field of
free opportunity, and by the exercise of his faculties
creates something, that something he creates,
whether it be money, a home, an invention, a book,
a painting, an opera, or whatever it may be that he
creates, is his property, and it is the duty of the
government to protect him in its ownership and use.
When the American system is stripped down to
its running gear, it will be found that the ideas we
have mentioned constitute its framework. The Con
stitution does not impart these rights to the indi
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 219
vidual and it cannot deprive him of them. They are
inherent in the individual and are formulated and
expressed in the Constitution in a convenient form.
The Constitution, therefore, is a crea
tion of the people. It is a living gar
ment woven out of their instincts and
desires. The people were not made for
the Constitution. The Constitution was
made for the people.
ft is not necessary for us to further burden the
pages of this book with proof of the fact that we
have completely departed from the fundamental prin
ciples of our government. We have covered the
foundations with tons of rubbish. We have departed
from the principles and are lost in the confusion of a
multitude of interpretations.
A noted English historian in discussing the per
formances of the English Parliament, said, in sub
stance, "There is always a tendency amongst men
in all their thinking and action to depart from first
principles and if England desires to move forward
to higher stages of civilization, She must go back
to first principles to get the inspiration for such an
advance." In his day, England had fallen into all
kinds of confusion by departing from first principles.
In the realms of activity in the
Universe that lies outside the reach of
human control or interference, life is
supreme and all things are subservient
thereto. In the American system, as
organized by its founders, life is en
throned and all things are subservient
thereto. Property in all its forms lay
at the footstool of life and ministered
220 PLENOCRACY
to it. Human rights under all circum
stances took the precedence of property
rights. In other words, the man stood
above the dollar.
But we have reversed this principle. In fact, we
have reversed and mutilated every principle of the
Constitution. It is indeed sad to see how a great
human document can be perverted, but as is stated
in my book, "The Science of Mastership," page
263, history shows us that every great movement
fraught with principles of human uplift, has been
seized by groups who possessed keen, cunning,
powerful brains and perverted them to their own
selfish purposes.
Our political condition is well illustrated by a
story that a friend of ours told us about his experi
ence with hogs in the Blue Ridge mountains. He
said, "On one occasion some years ago when I was
living in Baltimore, Maryland, I was invited by a
man who owned an apple ranch in the heart of the
mountains to visit him. I accepted the invitation
and arrived at my destination late in the evening.
Next morning after a good breakfast I said to my
host, 'I would like to have a good drink of moun
tain water.' 'Well,' said he, 'you can have all you
want. Two thirds up the mountain there is a big
spring which pours out from beneath the rocks. It
is as clear as crystal and cold as ice. It comes down
the mountain and pours out through a big pipe in
my back yard. Come on out and drink to your satis
faction.'
"So together we went out and looked at the water
coming from the pipe. It was yellow with mud. I
said, 'My good friend, do you call that mountain
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 221
water? You said it was as clear as crystal and cold
as ice. What is the matter with the water?' 'Well,'
said he, 'I am sorry, but I know what is the matter.
The damned hogs have gotten into the stream.'
'That is too bad,' said I, 'How are we going to
get a good cool drink?' 'We must climb up above
the hogs, get a good drink and then we must drive
the hogs out of the stream and put them in the pen.'
"So we began climbing the mountain. Finally we
came to where the hogs were. Five big fat porkers
lying side by side grunting with delight as the cool
waters flowed over their hot steaming sides. We
went above them and slaked our thirst abundantly.
Then we drove the hogs out. The hogs objected and
we were compelled to use force. We drove them down
the mountain and put them into their pen, so that
they could not pollute the stream."
Like Moses of old, the creators of the American
system of Government struck the rocks of truth and
forthwith from beneath these rocks there sprang a
stream of freedom as pure as snow, sparkling in its
beauty and brilliancy. It came down the mountains
of time to quench the thirst of the waiting millions
of common folks, not alone in America, but in the
world.
But look at that water today as it
pours out through the pipes of con
gress, state legislatures and municipal
councils. It is yellow xoith mud. What is
the matter with the stream of liberty?
The hogs have gotten into the stream.
Look at these hogs : see them wallowing
in the stream. We can name them
Greed, Privilege, Graft, Monopoly and
PLENOCRACY
Stupidity. All these hogs are the chil
dren of the Old Capitalism.
The perverted political system is the result of a
perverted economic system.
The political system formulated by the fathers of
this Republic was based on natural law. When this
system is taken without addition, subtraction, mul
tiplication, or division, it will work for the benefit
of all. In the administration of its principles, it has
been added to, subtracted from, multiplied and
divided until it has lost all resemblance to its original
form.
Now the political system of a country sustains the
same relation to its economic system as the glove
does to the living hand. We know that the living
hand controls and shapes the glove. Our political
system was carefully thought out and planned by
men of great mental ability. Our economic system
was not thought out, nor planned: it grew up spon
taneously. It is, as we have seen, the outgrowth of
a raw, rough, greedy and unbridled individualism.
This unbridled individualism was turned loose in a
magnificent continent filled with rich resources and
immense possibilities of wealth accumulation. Since
the economic system is the living hand and the polit
ical system is the glove, it can be easily seen that
the economic system controls, shapes and modifies
the glove.
So all the perversions of the original plan of our
government was the result of the pressure brought
to bear on the administrators of its principles by
the Old Capitalism.
The purpose of the founders of this Republic is
stated in the preamble of the Constitution.
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 223
"Whereas we, the people of the
United States, in order to form a more
perfect union, establish justice, insure
domestic tranquility, provide for the
common defense, promote the general
welfare and secure the blessings of
liberty to ourselves and posterity, do
ordain and establish this Constitution
of the United States."
This preamble shows clearly that the aim of the
framers of the Constitution was to so regulate the
economic system that it would result in creating
abundance for all. If the economic system had been
thought out and planned as carefully as the political
system , if it had been made to fit the political system
at every point so that it would work in perfect har
mony with it, the history of these United States
would be a vastly different story from what it has
been. Greedy, raw, rough, unbridled economic indi
vidualism has run away with the wagon and harness
of government, and ditched it time after time. This
last time it is ditched in the mud so deep that it is
doubtful if it will ever be recovered.
Fortunately we still have the principles of the
political system to go back to. They are still intact
in their pristine purity and power.
We must shovel away all the rubbish
that has been dumped upon these foun
dation principles; uncover them and
begin to build our civilization in accord
ance with the plan of the founders.
To do this effectively we must have a new eco
nomic system ; a system that will fit into the political
system and work in perfect harmony with it. Soviet
22A PLENOCRACY
ism, Socialism or Communism will not work. They
are all foreign theories; the expression of a totally
different type of mind from that of the Anglo Saxon.
They will not fit into the framework of the Ameri
can system.
PLENOCRACY is this new economic system. It
is the product of the American mind. It is based
on and in perfect alignment with the way the Univer
sal Creative Principle works. In fact, it is the work
ing principle of the Universe in action, and since
the political system worked out by the organizers
of this Republic, is also based upon the way nature
works, both systems are in harmony. There is a
mathematical principle which says, "Things that are
equal to the same are equal to each other."
PLENOCRACY is in full agreement with the way
nature works. Democracy in its purity is in full
agreement with the way nature works.
PLENOCRACY is economic; Democracy is polit
ical; both are in harmony with the working prin
ciple of the Universe, therefore they are in harmony
with each other. The meaning of the word PLEN
OCRACY is the power of plenty. The meaning of
the word Democracy is the power of the people.
So when PLENOCRACY, which is the science of
creating abundance for all, is put into operation by
a purified Democracy, or the power of the people,
we will build a civilization that will endure and in
the stream of abundance, all false systems and values
will be swept away. We have said that the principles
of PLENOCRACY and Democracy are identical.
Let us see if this is true.
First: Both systems are in line with the way
nature works.
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 225
Second: Both enthrone life and make all other
things subservient thereto.
Third: Both are organized to render service.
Democracy, as thought out by its founders, was not
organized for profit : it was organized to render serv
ice. PLENOCRACY, as thought out by its founders,
is organized not for profit, but to render service.
Fourth: The individual is the central determining
factor in both systems. In Democracy the individual,
by his vote, is the determining factor in the govern
ment. In PLENOCRACY the individual, by his con
sent, is the determining factor in economics.
Fifth: Both operate on the principle of coopera
tion. In Democracy the individuals cooperate to
create a government that will protect all. In PLEN
OCRACY the individuals cooperate to establish an
economic system that will create abundance for all.
Sixth: Both operate through a service agent. The
service agents in Democracy are the elected repre
sentatives in Congress. The service agents in
PLENOCRACY are the trustees of the service
agency.
Seventh: Both, so long as they remain pure, are
linked up with, and become the channel through
which flows the energy that created and sustains
the Universe.
With these considerations, we return to the cen
tral conception of PLENOCRACY, which is energy
directed by Creative Intelligence operating in space
through cycles of time. This brought the Universe
into existence and sustains it. So energy directed by
Creative Intelligence operating in space, or produc
tive land, through cycles of time, will create abun
dance for all.
226 PLENOCRACY
Now in America we have the land, the energy,
the time and the intelligence. It is our desire to
emphasize in the strongest possible way, that the
most important factor in this combination of factors
is intelligence. Intelligence seems to be inherent in
life. The reason why intelligence is of so much
importance is because it is the directive factor.
We have an abundance of all the other factors.
We have, as we have stated above, land in abundance.
We have energy in almost unlimited quantities. We
have time, but up to the present we have been lack
ing in the application of Constructive Creative In
telligence —the directive factor. In the Universe at
large we have Creative Intelligence directing the
Infinite Energies in space through the cycles of time,
creating in the vast regions of space, the countless
numbers of suns and systems that move therein.
Professor Compton of the Chicago University, the
winner of the Nobel prize, in a recent interview said,
"To the Physicist, it has become clear that the chances
are infinitesimal, that a Universe filled with atoms
having random properties would develop into a
world with the infinite variety that we find about
us. This strongly suggests that the evolutionary
process is not a chance one, but is directed towards
some definite end. If we suggest that evolution is
directed, we imply that there is a directing intelli
gence. It thus becomes reasonable that intelligent
minds may be the end towards which such an intelli
gent evolution is directed."
I quote Professor Compton to show that the lead
ing physical scientists in their profound study of
the structure and movements of the Universe are
coming to the belief that there is in the Universe
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 227
a Supreme Creative Intelligence directing its infinite
energies.
What is Creative Intelligence amongst men? It
is the free intellect in action. It is cool, clear, steady,
penetrative, constructive thinking. Creative intelli
gent thinkers have given us all that we possess that
has permanent value. All our great mechanical in
ventions where the forces of the Universe have been
harnessed to human service , all our great discoveries
in science, medicine, biology, astronomy and in all
other departments of human thought, were given
to us by creative thinkers. The constructive intelli
gent thinker does not create anything new. He does
not add anything to the sum total of the forces of
the Universe. He seems to possess the power of
intuitive penetration, whereby he sees into the heart
of things. Possessed of this power, he can see how
things work. So creative thinking consists of the
ability to invent a machine, or devise a Plan, through
which the energies that are in nature will work with
the greatest efficiency.
Creative thinking first considers all
the facts. Second, finds out the how of
the facts. In other words, traces out
how the energy works that produced
the facts. Third, then builds the ma
chine or formulates the plan in accord
ance with the facts, and the way the
energy works that produced the facts.
In formulating the philosophy of PLENOCRACY
under the guidance of science, we pursued this course
and the field of our inquiry was the Universe itself.
PLENOCRACY is the working principle of the uni
228 PLENOCRACY
verse in action and it is presented as the best pos
sible way out of our difficulties. Through its tech
nique, which is the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan,
we propose to take conscious creative intelligent con
trol of the energy that flows through the sun, the
earth and man, and so direct this energy that it will
create abundance for all.
This is a great program, but there is a vast amount
of work to be done. The minds of the people have
been drenched with false, destructive and pernicious
theories. It will take time and patience to clear
out of the public mind the vast quantities of mental
rubbish that has been dumped into it by the Old
Capitalism. Fortunately, however, we are assisted
in our work by the omnipotent forces of evolution.
The time is ripe for a new deal. Infinite Intelli
gence, directing energy in space through cycles of
time, creates the conditions for the evolutionary
process. Whether man likes it, or does not like it,
he must advance. He must adjust himself to the
new conditions, or die.
The Directing Intelligence of the Universe expresses
itself in terms of time. The revolutions of the earth
around the sun measure out time. Through the
precession of the Equinoxes, there is a movement
of the earth through space into a new position. This
movement is through one degree of space for every
seventy-two years of time. So then it takes the
earth two thousand one hundred sixty years to pass
through thirty degrees of space, and twenty-six thou
sand years to pass through the complete cycle of
three hundred sixty degrees. So the successive steps
of evolution are measured out in time. Every two
thousand years the earth moves into a section of
CLEARING AWAY THE RUBBISH 229
space where the vibrations of energy are much
faster. These faster vibrations constitute the carry
ing waves along which passes a faster, purer type
of thought and emotion. This stream of higher
thought and emotion finds expression through men
and women who are so highly developed that they
can tune in with these faster, purer vibrations of
thought and emotion. These highly sensitized indi
viduals catch these higher thoughts and emotions
and formulate them into new forms of language,
government, religion, science, invention, economics
and every other form of expression.
It makes no difference what Kings, Queens, Poten
tates, Generals, Armies, Parliaments, Financiers, or
Congresses say or think: this great movement goes
on constantly in magnificent majesty upward and
onward forever. It is these faster vibrations of this
Infinite Energy rising up in the consciousness of men
and women who are sufficiently developed to receive
and express them, which shatters the shells of the
old system into fragments and sweeps away, like
so much chaff, the false structures of a dying age.
So those who understand PLENOCRACY and
identify themselves with it, are cooperating with the
infinite energy that is moving the earth into a region
of faster vibrations, making a new age possible.
We Plenocrats are marching in step with the
rhythm of the spinning planets and the sun. We are
witnessing the end of an age and entering the light
of a newer and grander age—the age of unity, co
operation, fellowship and harmony.
Chapter Nine
IS PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY?
IF
A machine or a plan is scientific, it is built on
Reality. In other words, it is built on the facts
and the law of the facts.
Man can create nothing new. The sum total of
truth is now in existence. The Universe must be
infinite perfection. Man can add nothing to the sum
total of the force that is in the Universe. He can
subtract nothing from it. The only thing he can
do is to put things together. He puts things together
when he builds a machine or formulates a plan.
The chief task confronting man is to put things
together in the way Nature puts them together.
If his machine or plan is built in the way Nature
works, then that machine or plan will work. If it
violates natural law it will not work. For many
thousands of years man has been building machines
and formulating plans. He has succeeded fairly well
with his machines. Quite a number of them work
and those that work are those that are built in ac
cordance with the way nature works.
A machine is a harness that man has built to
control and direct a force in nature. The steam
engine is a harness built to fit the way steam works.
The motor is a harness built to fit the way electricity
works. An aeroplane is a machine built to fit the
way the atmosphere works. Man has been fairly
successful in building harnesses to control and direct
the forces of nature and compel them to act as
servants to man.
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 281
He has not, however, been successful in formulat
ing plans to harness the forces that are in himself
and in his neighbor. The forces in the Universe
outside himself have been harnessed and brought
under control, but the forces in the Universe within
himself are not under control.
The reason that man has not succeeded in bring
ing the forces within himself under control is because
in formulating his plan he has ignored the facts of
human nature.
All forms of religion have been formulated to
bring the forces that are in man under control.
Judaism, Islamism, Buddhism, Christianity, are all
plans formulated to control, regulate, and transform
the forces that are in man.
If these systems were formulated in accordance
with the facts in human nature, there would be no
conflict between them. Everybody knows, however,
that these four great systems for human recovery
are now and have been all through the centuries in
constant conflict. If these systems had been based
on reality or on the laws that govern the transforma
tion of human nature, they would all cooperate with
each other to save man instead of destroying him.
Moses, the founder of Judaism, Mahomet the
founder of Islamism, Buddha the founder of Budd
hism, and Christ the founder of Christianity, were
■
all great and good men. An analysis of the funda
mental principles of these systems originated by the
great thinkers shows many points of similarity. If
the leaders in these movements would stand to
gether on their points of agreement and allow liberty
on their points of difference, they could cooperate
in vast benefit to humanity. Every one of these sys
232 PLENOCRACY
terns have fallen into the hands of men who have
perverted them and used them for their own selfish
purposes.
In each case there has been a complete departure
from the principles, motive, method and purpose of
the original founders. This is why they have been
and are in conflict today. This is why they have
been and are now used to exploit man instead of
being used to save him.
As an illustration of how the original plans and
purposes of these great benefactors of humanity
have been perverted, take Christianity. The founder
of Christianity was one of the great master spirits
of history. Every statement he made was the ex
pression of a law. If the philosophy of life that he
taught was in full and Universal expression in the
world, all its problems would be solved. The central
principle in his teachings was love. Not love in its
low sensual form, but in its highest form. This type
of love is the universal solvent. His system was scien
tific because it was based on reality. But this simple
and beautiful system was tarnished by the polluted
hands of grafters. It was corrupted by passing
through the minds of selfish leaders. Its simple and
practical principles were lost and complicated creeds
were formulated and put in their place. Because
of this its unity was destroyed and groups were
organized around these creeds. These groups hated-
each other and the history of Europe down to recent
times is largely the history of the bloody conflicts
of these groups. They fought all over Europe. They
jailed, burned and beheaded each other. When one
group gained political power they murdered the
other group. Both groups established inquisitions.
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 233
The history of this religious warfare and persecu
tion is a gruesome affair and its record is to the
eternal shame of the selfish leaders who perverted
the teaching of one of the noblest men in history.
Today the so-called followers of this great master
are divided into numerous groups. There is not
a single scintilla of salvation in any of the opinions
taken singly or in all of the opinions taken collec
tively that divide them. It has cost billions in money
to build the churches and the theological seminaries
to perpetuate these divisions. It cost millions to
keep up the army of 250,000 priests and preachers
to sustain these separate institutions. What a waste
of money to perpetuate these differences in which
there is not a single element of constructive value.
The elements of value to humanity are in the points
of agreement amongst them and not in their points
of difference.
Unity, fellowship and cooperation, cannot be prac
ticed on points of difference. Points of difference
are the sharp points of conflict and war. When men
agree, war is impossible.
What these Christian sects ought to do is to call
a conference to find out their points of agreement.
Unite and cooperate on these points of agreement and
allow every man freedom on the points of difference.
Will this ever be done? I am extremely doubtful.
The enemies of Christianity have said that Chris
tianity is a failure. They say that it failed to pre
vent the world war. It failed to solve the liquor
question. It has failed in the present crisis of world
wide unemployment and distress.
I meet this argument by saying that genuine Chris
tianity as it came untarnished from the brain and
PLENOCRACY
heart of its founder was never practiced in Europe
or America. It was practiced for a few years after
its introduction. It was speedily perverted by
selfish men.
It was a spurious Christianity that failed to pre
vent the world war, failed to solve the liquor question
and failed in the present crisis and always will fail.
Jesus founded Christianity on reality. He created
nothing new. He expressed and formulated the ideas
and principles that always were, are now, and ever
shall be. He said, "Ye shall know the truth and the
truth shall make you free." Truth is, always has
been and ever will be. Truth inheres in the nature
of things. It is reality. It is the law of harmonious
relationships. Genuine Christianity as it came clean
from the brain and heart of its founder was the
expression of the science of harmonious relationships
between man and his neighbor.
He taught that the only power that could create
and perpetuate harmonious relationships amongst
men was love in expression.
The Golden Rule "do unto others what you would
they should do unto you" is the expression of a law.
That law is that a man's highest and best interests
are protected when he is willing to do unto his
neighbor that which he is willing for his neighbor
to do unto him.
Every principle announced by this
master teacher is based on reality. In
fact it is reality. His philosophy con
forms to the facts and the law of the
facts.
The spurious forms of Christianity that have ap
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 285
peared at different times in human history and exist
today are based mostly upon illusions that never
existed anywhere save in the consciousness of some
theologian. Any structure whether it is religious,
philosophic or industrial, that is erected on some
thing that isn't, cannot solve anything and must go
down. It tumbles into ruins when the illusion
evaporates.
The author of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan
in his search for reality, studied every form of reli
gion, philosophy and economics, to find reality. The
plan he formulated is not a religion. It is a science
and it embodies in itself the scientific principles ex
pressed by all the great masters of spiritual and
economic science.
The author does not think that he knows all that
can be known. He is always ready to listen to con
structive criticism. This plan works. It is not an idle
dream. It is already in operation and the man who
complies with its conditions finds in it a solution of
all his problems.
Jesus said in connection with the benefits to be
derived from his teachings, "If any man will do my
will he shall know whether the doctrines I teach
come from God or not." There is nothing arbitrary
in this. In other words, he says, "My friend, if you
do what I tell you to do and you do not get the re
sults that I claim you will get, then you are in a
position to condemn me as a fakir."
So we say in regard to the UNIVERSAL SERV
ICE Plan, if you come with us and comply with
the conditions and do not get the results that we
claim you will get, then you are in a position to de
nounce us. But you have no right to condemn us
PLENOCRACY
beforehand. This is the method of science. Science
is experiment. The Scientist formulates a theory and
tests it out. If it does not work he casts his theory
away and formulates another and tests it. He does
that right along and when he finds a theory that
works he freezes on to it and on the basis of that
theory he formulates his plan. The UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan works. Therefore it is scientific.
It supplies all human needs in an honest and nat
ural way. Man is a bundle of needs. Mother Earth
is stored with the supplies to meet those needs. So
in the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan man goes to
the earth to have his needs supplied. In the UNI
VERSAL SERVCE Plan man puts his money and
energy into the earth and the earth in response, sup
plies him with abundant food, fuel, clothing, and
shelter for himself and his family.
His desire for self preservation for himself and
his family is thus satisfied.
His desire for security is also satisfied because he
knows he cannot lose his money and his energy is
not wasted. When his money is in a bank or in gilt
edge securities, he may wake up some fine morning
to discover that it has all evaporated and he has
nothing left.
A member in good standing in the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE ASSOCIATION is free from worry. The
fear of poverty is abolished forever. The productive
powers of Mother Earth are working for him day
and night. He does not have to watch her. She will
not rob him. She will not exploit him. She will not
freeze him out. She will not abscond with his money.
She will not control the law makers and bribe them
to pass laws to make it legal for her to steal his
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 237
money or his increase. Old Mother Earth recognizes
him as her child. She will fight for him, work for him,
stand by him through evil and good report. She will
give her life for him. She will overlook his faults, his
mistakes and follies. She brought him into being. Out
of her womb he came. When he dies she will receive
his body with open arms and between birth and death
she will take care of him abundantly if he will only
trust her.
In the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan good old
Mother Earth is calling all her wayward children
back to her bosom. Her children for many years have
been wandering away from her. They have built
castles composed of imaginary wealth in the plains
of illusion. They have given these castles high sound
ing names. These castles were all built out of paper,
paper covered with a thin covering of gold. They
looked solid and substantial, but there was nothing
substantial in them. They looked beautiful and en
ticing, but they were nothing but beautiful glittering
promises. Millions of Earth's children entered these
flimsy castles hoping to find wealth, ease, protection
and security. The toiling masses seeking to obtain
wealth without work, listening to the siren voices of
the builders of these castles, stored all their money
in them. Poor fools, they did not think.
The government told them that these castles were
strong. Men high up in church and state said that
they were all right. Bankers, Senators, Bishops, Uni
versity professors, Editors of great newspapers in
great and glowing language said that these castles
could not fall.
But the storm began to gather. The lightnings of
reality cut through the air and rent these flimsy
238 PLENOCRACY
castles into ribbons. The thunders of truth roared
their approval, the words of truth rose with increas
ing velocity. The rain came in torrents. The floods
came, sweeping away into the angry ocean the ruins
of all these false structures. Many of the deluded
people were drowned. Many of the builders of these
false castles were drowned also.
The survivors are now standing in the midst of
the ruins, ragged and forlorn, wondering what they
must do. Surely they have learned the lesson that
enduring, social or financial structures cannot be
built out of illusions.
In the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan, Mother
Earth is calling these foolish survivors back to her
bosom, back to sanity, back to reality, back to the
source of all real wealth.
I do not think that our leaders have learned the
lesson yet. The present occupant of the Presidential
chair in his speech of acceptance admits that the
cause of the widespread ruin and misery of the times
is speculation, in other words, fictitious wealth. Spec
ulation adds nothing to real wealth and gorges itself
and the public with imaginary wealth. The specula
tor gilds cheap paper with gold and calls it gold, then
raises the price and sells it to the people as real gold.
The present occupant of the Presidential chair has
stated that the speculator by creating false values
has created the wide spread ruin and disaster of
these terrible times.
The candidate for his place in the Presidential
chair also admits that the speculator, the inflationist,
the exploiter, by creating vast quantities of false
values brought about the crash. But he has no rem
edy, only that of regulation. How can you regulate
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 289
an illusion. The only way to regulate it is to abolish
it altogether. How can you by regulation transform
nothing into something. The man who can issue a
mandate and create something out of nothing is
greater than God himself. Our elected leaders and
our would-be leaders are blind. They cannot see
reality. They still think that illusion is reality. They
cannot see the difference between real and fictitious
wealth.
Real wealth is something you can use, such as food,
fuel, clothing and shelter. The man who puts his
money and brains into the earth creates real wealth.
The earth revolving around the Sun and on her
axis kissed by the Sun's rays is capable of producing
boundless real wealth.
Frank B. White, Editor of "Farm Market Say
ings," says "That the average annual value of Am
erica's farm crops for the past five years has been
in excess of $16,000,000,000 and from the time Co
lumbus discovered America down to 1931 there has
not been enough gold produced to equal the value
of two annual crops in America." These crops are
real wealth. What I mean by real wealth is the things
that supply human needs. Money then is not real
wealth. It is the symbol of wealth. It is the financial
yard stick to measure wealth. We measure the
amount of real wealth furnished by the earth in dol
lars and say it was worth 16 thousand million.
But the so-called wealth created by the speculators
in Wall Street and the stock exchanges, the broker,
the national money lenders and the international
money lenders is not wealth. These gentlemen create
nothing of value. The only thing they do is to create
conditions that must eventually end in disaster. These
240 PLENOCRACY
respectable ornate and soft handed gentlemen, non-
producers, take the real wealth of the country and
without adding anything of value to it, inflate it
away beyond its real value. They then sell it at this
price, then they deflate it and buy it back.
These smooth, sleek, unctuous gentlemen with soft
hands and oily tongues may not know it but they are
the real enemies of society.
But the question naturally arises—did the pro
ducers of this 16 thousand million dollars worth of
real wealth get this money. They did not. The smug
and smooth inflators, money lenders and speculators
are magnificently organized. They have control of
all the necessary agencies which enables them to
legally corral the real wealth and manipulate it to
their own advantage. They fix the prices which the
honest worker must take for his produce. These
organized exploiters see to it that the price is fixed
as low as possible so that they will have a larger
margin for their speculations and inflations.
The farmer today pays 153 per cent more to ship
his products on the railroads than he did before the
war and he pays at least 25 per cent more for goods
he must buy. At the same time he receives about 60
per cent less for the products he has to sell. In March
1932, farmers were receiving only 5-57/100 cents a
pound for their cotton, while the Department of Ag-
culture states that it costs 16 cents to produce a
pound.
Farm prices dropped 32 per cent in 1931, 51 per
cent below the 1929 level and 70 per cent below the
level of 1919. Farm and land values have dropped
nearly 50 per cent since 1920. The average income
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 241
per farm household has dropped from $887 in 1929
to $367 in 1931, although they pay 1/5 of all taxes.
The farmers receive only about 9-3/10 per cent of
the national income.
A. C. Williams of the Federal Farm
Board estimated the total debt resting
on the bent shoulders of the farmer to
be 13 thousand million dollars.
Of this load, 10 thousand million is in the form
of mortgages. In 1930 alone the farmers paid 671
millions in interest and 777 millions in taxes. So the
money lending exploiters have the farmer hog tied.
Soon all the available land will be owned by these
soft handed gentlemen. In fact, the process of taking
over the farms through foreclosure is proceeding
rapidly. Already in 1930, over 42 per cent of all
farms operated in the United States were operated
by tenants and the remaining 58 per cent might as
well be operated by tenants because of the heavy
mortgages resting on the backs of the owners.
These facts show that the farmers, the creators of
real wealth are helpless in the hands of the exploit
ers. There is only one remedy. The exploiters have
shown what they can do through organization.
Through organization these respectable and leading
gentlemen have been enabled to corral legally all the
real wealth and use it to create countless billions of
fictitious wealth, to lay the foundations of false
structures, which as I have shown when the storm
of reality beats upon them, fall into ruins, burying
themselves and their poor hapless victims in destruc
tion.
If these exploiters can organize to destroy, the
PLENOCRA C Y
creators of real wealth can organize to save. If they
do not organize they are doomed —doomed to per
petual slavery for themselves and their offspring.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION stands
with open arms ready to receive all the creators of
real wealth into one great organization. Within this
organization is freedom, protection, security, har
mony and cooperation, where all work for each and
each for all.
It is downright stupidity to expect govern
ment to save us. The government is owned by the
exploiters. Don't you know that if you make your
self an ass every man will throw his sack on your
back. If you lie down and become a door mat,
every man will spit on you. We, who belong to
the exploited class, have ceased to think. We have
turned the business of our political, financial and
industrial thinking over to the politician, the
money lender and the corporation magnate. The
net result is that they have corraled everything
we produced and left us nothing plus rags and
misery. Who is to blame? We are to blame because
we created the conditions that made it possible.
We elected men to represent us in the Power
House at Washington. We placed them there to rep
resent us and protect our interests. Have they pro
tected them? They have not. Controlled by powerful
exploiting organizations, they have done what they
have commanded them to do. At the command of
that powerful group known as the International
Bankers they have loaned 12 thousand millions of
our money to the members of their group in foreign
countries. And they have loaned 4 thousand millions
2U PLENOCRACY
of our money to the members of the same group in
the United States. In addition, they have loaned 2
thousand millions to the railways. Who is going to
pay these loans back?
These groups do not produce one dime of real
wealth. Where are they going to get the money to
pay these loans? They are going to get it from the
producers of real wealth. They have done it before
and they know that they can do it again. Who is to
blame? We are. We refuse to organize in our own
defense.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION or
ganizes and puts into your hands a weapon for your
own defense. But a great many of us are so full of
prejudice and doubt that we refuse to use it. A good
many of us are too lazy to think, too lazy to unite,
too selfish to cooperate. We do not want to be saved.
We poor, foolish dupes. Crucify our saviours and
crown our murderers. We damn those who would
enrich us and send those who rob us to the Senate.
I bombard you with these dynamic sentences to
wake you up. I want to shock your brain cells into
action so as to get you to investigate the best plan
for your emancipation that was ever constructed. It
is as I have shown you, scientific and works.
It is also intensely American and its five year plan
will meet all your needs and solve all your problems.
The five year plan proposed by the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE ASSOCIATION is American. It fits into
our constitution and it fits America. It is constructed
in harmony with the trend of our history, the habits
of our people, their mental temper and it dovetails
with perfect precision into the needs of these dis
tressing times. The five year plan must not be con
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY 245
founded with the five year plan which Stalin and
his associates are endeavoring to put over in Russia.
Our plan is based exclusively in the land. Stalin's
plan is based only partially in the land and mostly
on the machine. He proposes to attain the millenium
by means of the machine alone. Unquestionably, it
is a grand vision, calculated to capture the imagina
tion of any people and especially the Russian people,
for they are gifted with an amazing imagination.
Stalin's plan exists largely as yet on paper. It con
sists of four immense volumes made up of hundreds
of books written especially for Stalin by hired for
eign thinkers and economists.
The central idea in the plan is to convert a semi-
savage agricultural state into a great industrial or
ganism, so big that it will smash capitalism into
fragments. The weapons that this artificial organism
will use will be coal, water, power, timber and
metals.
To my mind his plan will not work out because it
does not conform to the facts. Where is the coal? It
is not embedded in convenient localities as it is in
the United States. It is in the Dinetz basin and the
deposit is no larger than that found in the State of
Wyoming.
Where is the water power? The only place they
have water power is in the rivers that flow through
wildernesses northward into the frozen Arctic Sea.
Where is the timber? In northern Siberia and
there is no transportation facilities, save the rivers
that flow through trackless wastes into a frozen sea,
where there are no available harbors for ships.
Where are the metals? Professor Brieterman, the
PLENOCRACY
leading Soviet authority, says if production was
normal the copper deposits would be exhausted in
fifteen months. Russia is not well supplied with
metals.
Stalin's five year plan aims to utilize the resources
of Russia through machine production, and second,
to produce vast quantities of finished articles and
then dump these vast quantities of goods into the
markets of the world at a low price. By this method
he hopes to destroy capitalism.
Nature never intended that Russia would become
a great manufacturing country.
'
Stalin's plan is
therefore likely to be wrecked on the rocks of the
material facts. Russia is preeminently fitted to be
come a great agricultural country. Its vast plains
and slow moving rivers and range of climate fits it
for farming. Stalin's five year plan contemplates
vast production of agricultural products through the
machine.
There are therefore, far reaching differences be
tween the five year plan of Stalin and the five year
plan of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIA
TION.
The first difference—Stalin begins with the ma
chine. The USA Plan begins with the individual.
The second difference—Stalin sacrifices the indi
vidual to the machine. The USA Plan subordinates
the machine to the individual.
The third difference—Stalin deprives the indi
vidual of ownership and makes him a cog in his
great machine. The USA plan makes him an owner
and protects him in his freedom.
The fourth difference—Stalin destroys incentive
by refusing to give the individual his part of the
PLENOCRACY BASED ON REALITY U7
profits. The USA plan develops incentive by giving
the individual his proportionate part of the increase.
The fifth difference—Stalin aims to use his organ
ization in the business of competition. The USA
plan uses our organization to foster co-operation.
The sixth difference—Stalin's plan is materialistic
throughout. The USA plan contains the spiritual
element. His plan aims at the perfection of the
machine. The USA plan aims at the perfection of
character.
When Stalin is finished with his machine, he will
have created a giant Frankenstein without a soul and
this giant will murder his creators. The USA plan
will invest a great organization with the soul of
unity, cooperation and fellowship; a joyous common
wealth where health, happiness and prosperity will
abound.
Stalin's plan is not scientific because it cuts across
and ignores the facts in human nature and the ma
terial facts of Russia as a country.
The USA plan is scientific because it recognizes
and accords with the facts in human nature and the
material facts of America as a country.
Chapter Ten
TECHNOCRACY
Or Harnessed Solar Energy
HAT is Technocracy? Technocracy may be de-
" "
fined as the power of the machine. It comes
from two Greek words: Techno, to form to shape;
and Kratos, power.
Democracy is a word that comes from two Greek
words: Demos, the people, and Kratos, Power. So
"Democracy" means the power of the people. Democ
racy is Political. Under Democracy, the political
power that was centralized in the person of a King
who claimed the Divine right to rule, was taken out
of his hands. The Revolutionary Fathers destroyed
the theory of the divine right of the King, decentra
lized this power and distributed it to the members
of society.
Technocracy is economic. It deals with energy, de
livered by the machine in the production and distri
bution of goods for human consumption.
The ideal towards which democracy moves, if not
perverted, is the political well-being of the citizens
of the nation.
The ideal towards which Technocracy moves, if
not perverted by human greed, or interfered with
by human stupidity, is the economic well-being of
all the citizens of the nation.
The doctrine of Democracy is that the kind of gov
ernment we have is determined by the intelligent,
political activity of the individual.
The doctrine of Technocracy is called "energy de
TECHNOCRACY 249
terminants," and it means that the amount of energy
delivered by the machine in the production and dis
tribution of goods, is a determining factor in the
nature and operation of the economic system devel
oped in the nation. If the vast energy of the auto
matic machines we now have was under the control
of Constructive, Creative Intelligence, we would
never have any depressions; and all would have
abundance.
The facts and principles upon which the new
theory of economics is based were uncovered in a
ten years' survey and study of the machinery equip
ment of North America. This is known as "The
energy research" of North America. The leader in
this great work is Professor Scott.
In the original group, which was formed ten years
ago, there were outstanding men such as Chas. P.
Steinmetz (the electrical wizard), Basset Jones (an
electrical engineer), the late Thornstein Veblen (the
Scientific Economist), Frederick Lee Ackerman
(architect), Dr. James Tolman of the California In
stitute of Technology. In all, thirty-six leading Engi
neers and Scientists have been engaged steadily in
this important work for ten years.
These great thinkers were not animated by any
mercenary motives.
The funds necessary to continue the work was
contributed, mostly, by the Architects Emergency
Committee of New York, and the headquarters of
the movement is the Industrial Engineering Depart
ment of the Columbia University.
This great work was sponsored and carried
through by men of the highest type of mind and
character. Their purpose was to find the cause of the
250 PLENOCRACY
present chaotic condition of our economic and social
structure; and they knew that the only way to find
the cause was to engage in an exhaustive and conti
nent-wide survey and analysis of the forces and
factors in operation.
So then , the nature and scope of this scientific in
vestigation is an intense and precise analysis of the
forces that condition our social and economic sys
tem. The Industrial Machine has failed to function.
What and where is the trouble, and how can it
be remedied?
In this survey, these thinkers do not deal with
wages, profits or prices, or any corporate disburse
ments, whatsoever; these are merely external ex
pressions. A careful diagnosis must go deeper; so
they deal with the internal behavior of our social
and industrial mechanism. They have examined com
modities in motion. The study of the movements of
one commodity would not be sufficient; so they se
lected 3,000 commodities, ranging from wheat and
cotton to steel and power.
Charts have been completed, showing the move
ments of all the factors involved in the production
and distribution of these commodities. The basic
facts as disclosed by those charts, for each of the
3,000 commodities, are:
First—the amount of energy expended,
Second —the number of men employed,
Third—the rate of growth of production,
Fourth—the decline in the amount of man-power
needed to produce a unit of each commodity, each
year,
Fifth—the total installed horsepower for each unit
produced of each commodity, each year, and
TECHNOCRACY 251
Sixth —the total installed horsepower.
It can be seen by this sketch how fundamental,
precise and complete this survey is. On the basis of
this survey these engineers have arrived at certain
conclusions :
First—All social and economic changes are
brought about by a change in the amount of
energy used. If the amount of energy used re
mains the same, the social order remains un
changed.
Second —The machine enters into the solution of
all social and economic problems of America ; in
fact, the machine creates these problems, and
cannot be ignored, in an attempt to solve them.
Third—The social and economic problems are no
longer local or individual. They are all inter
related. The production and distribution of
goods is the result of the action of numerous
machines. These machines are all dependent
upon each other, intimately inter-related; so
that they become one big machine. So our eco
nomic problems are nationwide, and involve all
industries, and all classes. If one part breaks
down, all parts are affected. The prosperity of
one individual or one industry is impossible,
unless all are prosperous. To diagnose and doc
tor apart, will do no good. We must advance to
the diagnosis, and cure from the standpoint of
the whole.
Fourth —The era of expansion is ended. When
the population of the United States was located
in the narrow strip of the Eastern States, there
was room for expansion; there was plenty of
252 PLENOCRACY
government land; there were vast coal-fields, oil
reservoirs, timber, mines of all kinds of metal;
vast resources, untouched and undeveloped.
All these resources are now privately owned
and controlled. Emigration laws have stopped
the flow of immigrants. The increase of popu
lation is limited to the difference between the
birth and death rate.
All other Nations are using the machine for
the production and distribution of goods for
their own people. So all the avenues for further
expansion are closed. Natural expansion being
denied, the creators and sustainers of the "Old
Capitalism," to keep things going in the old
way, invented spurious and fictitious forms of
expansion; through their stock exchange, grain
exchanges and corporations, they created all
kinds of inflated securities, to buttress and sus
tain the tottering economic structure. The air
blew out, and the whole structure tumbled into
ruin.
Fifth—Increased production is a thing of the
past. If production is increased, where can we
find a market? The statements in the preceding
paragraph, and the fact that the productive
power of the machine has thrown millions out
of employment, and curtailed purchasing power,
shows clearly that to increase production, under
these circumstances, would be the height of
folly; the only thing left open is the matter of
replacements.
Sixth—Through the almost unlimited amount of
energy delivered by the machine, we are being
forced to the point where we must make a com
TECHNOCRACY 258
plete revision and re-valuation of all our stand
ards of value.
All the standards of the "Old Capitalism" are
utterly inadequate, and out of date. We are faced
with the problem of "Having to desert a Sys
tem that has become obsolete" and, at the same
time, of designing a system to take its place.
If industry is to make a profit under the pres
ent System and the continuous development of
improved processes it must continually cut down
the cost of production. The best way to reduce
the cost of production is to produce on a large
scale, by the use of automatic machinery.
The result of this course of procedure is to
reduce the number of men employed, and shorten
the hours of labor; so then, in the attempt to
amass profit, by large scale production, through
automatic machinery, men are thrown out of
employment ; they are thus deprived of purchas
ing power. Deprived of purchasing power, these
men cannot buy; this weakens the market for
the increased quantity of goods produced. So the
attempt to create profit, by the use of the auto-
maic machine, destroys the "Profit System."
Seventh —The vast increase in the amount of
energy delivered by the machine has pulverized
all the old Economic Theories, from that of the
Ancient Greeks, down to that of Karl Marx.
These theories were all based on two assump
tions; the first was that the desires of the citi
zens of any nation, were unlimited, and for this
reason, expansion of production to meet these
desires can be pushed to infinity.
254 PLENOCRACY
The second was that human labor was a nec
essary factor in the production of goods and,
therefore, the greater number of men at work,
the greater the amount of goods produced and
consumed.
These assumptions were true in the past, and a
sound economic theory could be based upon them.
Some years back, the only energy converting ma
chines we had were human beings. One of these
human machines was capable of an output of one-
tenth horsepower unit per eight-hour day. But, see
what has happened since that time. Solar Energy
has been harnessed in the steam engine, in the inter
nal combustion engine, in the electric motor and in
the water-power of the giant dam and the waterfall.
The original unit has been multiplied 9,000,000 times.
For every one man we had then, we have 9,000,-
000 now. These high-speed machines, capable of de
livering such tremendous energy in the production
of goods, can supply all the wants of all the people,
up to any limit, in a short space of time.
Human labor expended, in time, creates cost. To
labor efficiently, the worker must be provided with
the means of life. To obtain the means of life, he
must get wages; but these powerful machines draw
down no pay-checks, and the inevitable consequence
is that the man-hours, per unit of product, and the
labor cost per unit, have dropped in recent years to
almost zero. So any person can see clearly that the
use of the machine has changed all the conditions
that surround the production of goods.
The old economic doctrines of John Stuart Mills,
Adam Smith, Ricardo and Karl Marx, are utterly
obsolete. Instead of scarcity, which was the basis of
TECHNOCRACY 255
the old "Economic System," we have abundance.
The "Old Capitalism," which was organized on the
Doctrine of Scarcity, must adjust itself to the Doc
trine of Abundance, to continue to exist.
In times past, human beings starved because of
scarcity. In these modern times, we starve amidst
abundance. This starving, amidst plenty, is due to
the fact that our Industrial and Political Leaders in
the "Old Capitalism" insist in controlling the present
economic system, in accordance with the ancient ex
ploded economic theories of the j)ast.
Eighth —Because of this, these thirty-six Eminent
Engineers say that America is on the verge of
complete bankruptcy and chaos.
Ninth—As the machine improves, that is, be
comes more automatic, we are advancing with
rapid strides to the time when all the human
labor will be eliminated.
The automatic machine will do all the work
of producing and distributing goods.
The employed will be those who put the auto
matic machines together, repair and watch them
in operation, and the Managers who will super
vise the work of distribution.
As I set down these conclusions furnished by these
eminent Engineers, certain things stand out clear in
my mind: Automatic machinery, delivering vast
quantities of energy in the production of goods, has
done three things:
It has created a surplus of goods,
It has thrown millions out of employment,
It has deprived these millions of purchasing
power.
The machines that created the abundance have also
256 PLENOCRACY
created the non-employment; so we have millions
starving amidst plenty. This brings the "Old Capi-
taltism" square up against a condition that disinte
grates it, and must eventually sweep it out of ex
istence; in fact, it brings this old system up against
one of the Laws of Nature:—the Law of the Con
servation of Energy, or the Law of Compensation.
The Law of Compensation is eternal energy in
motion, balancing itself. In regard to this law, Em
erson says: "Polarity, or action and reaction, we
meet in every part of Nature, in darkness and light,
in heat and cold, in the ebb and flow of waters, in
male and female, in the inspiration and expiration of
plants and animals, in the systole and diastole of
the heart, in the undulation of fluids and sounds, in
centrifugal and centripetal gravity; superinduce
magnetism at one end of the needle, the opposite
magnetism takes place at the other end. To empty
here, you must condense there."
Nature refuses to be cut up into parts. Nature
refuses to remain unbalanced. Justice, or the law
of balance, is present in every atom and cell. If you
store up vast quantities of energy here, you will de
plete it elsewhere.
The "Old Capitalism" said: "I must have profit.
To amass profit, I will build machines, and, since
these machines will ask for no wages, I can cut down
the cost of production, pile up a big surplus of goods,
sell this surplus and make immense profit." But the
inexorable Law of Compensation says: "No you
won't; you may succeed for awhile, but you are pil
ing up disaster for yourself and, sooner or later, you
will be crushed."
Production and distribution must balance. If you
TECHNOCRACY
pile up production on one hand, and fail to distribute
it on the other hand, you have interfered with the
central, all-pervading Law of the Universe, and you
must suffer the penalty; and that penalty is death.
If you persist, and say : "We own the machines, and
we will do as we please ; we will enrich ourselves, no
matter who suffers" : all right, go ahead ; but eventu
ally, the millions who suffer will awaken to the real
cause of their suffering ; then they will rise and rend
you to pieces, take possession of your machines and
your surplus to save themselves.
The same energy that you have harnessed in your
machines, is an expression of the Infinite Energy
that moves the Universe and, also, moves the masses
who suffer. You cannot defeat this energy; it has
smashed up your perverted system, and will prevent
you from reconstructing it on the same plan.
Attempts have been made to patch up the "Old
System" ; but they have all been abortive. The living
forces of a New Age, arising in dynamic power all
around us, prevents a reforming of the "Old Capi
talism."
We must have complete restoration. As Professor
Scott says: "We can no longer deal with the lack of
purchasing power or unemployment, or debt, by in
dividual establishments or business. They can be
dealt with only as parts of our industrial complex,
in a continental order of magnitude.
"Any political or economic attempt
to deal with the problems that are aris
ing on this continent, will of necessity
be only palliative and temporary expe
dients to final gestures of restraint, to
blockade the incoming of a New Order.
258 PLENOCRACY
"The Directors of our National Enterprise are
compelled, under the exigencies of the present Sys
tem, to have no choice of alternatives, except that of
expedient narcotics."
Wayne W. Parish, in an article on Technocracy,
in the New Outlook for November, 1932, says : "Some
of our so-called leaders are talking about developing
'New Industries' that will absorb the millions of the
unemployed, without realizing that the machine pre
vents any material absorption in that line, no matter
how many 'New Industries' are developed. Some are
talking about developing our 'foreign markets',
without knowing what they are talking about. To
those who are presenting these plans, Technocracy
poses a few fundamental questions:
"Can we ever re-employ again, under our present
system, all those of employable age, at a wage
standard that will provide them with sufficient buy
ing power to meet the demands of our productive
capacity? We cannot.
"Is recovery just around the corner, when we have
from one to two years' supply of wheat, corn, cotton,
copper, iron ore and other commodities in our ware
houses?
"The 'Share Work' plan now being promoted in
industry, needs little comment: It is sterile of all
logic and common sense. The total amount of work
remains the same. One pie is cut into eight pieces,
instead of four.
"What happens to the income of the individual?
If the individual who is fortunate enough to be work
ing for $50.00 a week, shares his work so that he
gets $40.00 a week, his standard of living must drop.
"Sharing will not increase purchasing power, and
TECHNOCRACY 259
industry cannot move until purchasing power is
raised."
The American Rolling Mills, the A. O. Smith Cor
poration and General Houses, Inc., thought they
could revive the building trade, by erecting factory-
made houses, apartments and office buildings. They
experimented with this plan, and have erected com
pletely furnished units in several large cities. They
thought that they could employ men, and revive the
building trade by selling these houses on the install
ment plan; but these idealists failed to take into ac
count, the machine aspect. These factory-made
houses, equipped with every modern convenience, can
be produced by machines, with an output of from
30 to 50 miles of 8 by 12 sections a day, with less
than 200 operators to the plant.
Other Idealists say: Sell 5000-million dollars
worth of bonds, and put the unemployed to work
building postoffices, digging waterways and rebuild
ing the railways. The Automatic Machine steps in
here also, shutting out tens-of-thousands of workers.
Because of this, such work would absorb only a
small proportion of the unemployed; this would not
increase purchasing power to any appreciable de
gree. In addition to this, the interest on the bonds
would have to be paid by the taxpayers, who are
already over-burdened.
The facts and the conclusions, based upon these
"facts" furnished by this Scientific Survey, has
shown that the "Old Capitalism" is doomed.
It has also presented an immediate problem of
far-reaching importance, and that problem is: What
shall be done with the unemployed millions? The
Automatic Machine occupies the factories, ready to
260 PLENOCRACY
pour out a stream of goods in abundance. "Machine
power" has taken the place of "Man power."
Where must the man go to supply
himself with the "Means of Life?"
There is only one way out, and that is "back to
the land." Old Mother Earth is Man's Redeemer.
Moses adopted this plan to bring Economic Redemp
tion to the Jews. After 450 years of slavery in
Egypt, Moses led them across the Arabian Desert
to Canaan. He perfected a complete religious, poli
tical and economic system.
However, the land was the basis of the entire
structure. It was arranged that every family should
own a piece of good land. So a race of Slaves be
came a race of Freemen, happy and prosperous.
The same method was adopted in Ireland. The
Irish people were kept in a condition of serfdom for
700 years. Through conquest and other methods, the
English took possession of the lands of Ireland.
These lands were bestowed on the favorites of the
King. Landlordism arose. The lands were rented to
the Irish people, in small farms, at excessively high
rent. Representatives of these Landlords, armed
with power to evict, collected these rents. The Land
lord lived in affluence, in splendid castles, in Eng
land. The struggles of the Irish Race to gain free
dom, is one of the most tragic stories in human his
tory. Great names appear in the conflict: O'Grattan,
Mitchell, Robert Emmet, Wolfe Tone, the Fitzger-
alds, O'Conner, Parnell and many others. Finally,
the Battle for Freedom was won. It was done by
eliminating Landlordism, and giving every tenant
ownership of his own piece of land. Ireland is now
TECHNOCRACY 261
a Free State, having control of its own internal
affairs, and this freedom is based upon the owner
ship of small farms by the Citizens. The erection
of a Free State is impossible, otherwise.
PLENOCRACY, and the UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan, advocates a "Return to the Land" as our only
salvation.
The second thought that comes to me (as I think
of the results of this nationwide survey) is:
Will the machine destroy us, or will we use the
machine on the farm, and in the factory, for our
own emancipation?
So long as the machine is used to carry out the
"Profit System" of the "Old Capitalism," just so
long will it continue to destroy us. But, if we employ
the machine to produce goods for use and service;
then the machine becomes our greatest benefactor.
The same conditions prevail in all highly indus
trialized Capitalistic Countries:
Consider Germany, for instance. The Pictorial
Review for November, 1932, contains "An interview
with Gerhardt Hauptman" by Konrad Bercovici,
entitled, "Machines Menace the World." Hauptman
is Germany's greatest dramatist. He is a philosopher,
and a profound scholar. Bercovici says that—"He
is one of the few great Germans whose opinions
on men and affairs are unbiased by political con
siderations." In this interview, Hauptman said:
"The whole World is suffering from too much
machinery; whether one political party or another
wins, or even if we have a monarchy again or not,
is of little importance.
"The remedy for our ills must be more radical
than what any of the political parties prescribe.
262 PLENOCRACY
"Germany has allowed machinery to take the place
of men—to replace all men. We have enjoyed pros
perity, as long as we manufactured that Machinery.
It was like being at work manufacturing poison.
While we manufactured machinery, we reveled in
luxury, completely heedless of what the results might
be. Now, we stand a silent enemy of steel and stone
before us, paying tribute to it.
"The machine was made the master of man, from
the cradle to the grave. We have tried to fashion
ourselves in its image.
"Look at the glass factory right here in the
Silesian Mountains; the most colossal glass factory
in the World. Run at capacity, it would furnish all
the glassware that the whole civilized world needs.
"And what about glass factories in other countries ?
Each one is equipped to supply the world with Glass
ware. What applies to glass factories, applies to
all other factories, as well.
"For instance: America, through its "Machine
Power," can supply automobiles for the whole world.
Each country in the world is so equipped with ma
chine power, which the rest of the world can find
no place to dispose of its surplus.
"The revolt in Germany is not a political one;
it is the revolt of Idle Hands. Man knows his enemy,
though the Politicians are trying to divert his atten
tion to other griefs."
But, you would not advocate the destruction of
the machine?
No; not its destruction; but a more intelligent
usage; one that would make the machine the ser
vant of man, and not his Master.
TECHNOCRACY 263
"The joy of work has been taken out of man by
the machine. The unintelligent use of machinery
has caused most of the wars for the last 100 years.
The armies warred for markets, to compel countries
to become buyers, instead of producers.
"It is one thing to make a new machine that can
produce ten times as much as a previous one; and
another thing, to sell what has been produced."
"The men who used that machine (not having as
much imagination as the Inventor), do not know
what to do with it. They can only think of destroy
ing their neighbors' machinery; or of attempting to
compel people to buy what they produce, to wrest
colonies from each other; to force the savages to
dress like Germans, or like Frenchmen, or like
Englishmen and to pummel them solidly, until they
furnish their homes with German, French or English
goods."
"Why should tens-of-thousands of human beings
be blown into atoms, to open up the way for some
Capitalist to sell his surplus of shoes or chewing
gum?"
According to Hauptman, the conditions in Ger
many are similar to the conditions in all Industrial
or Capitalistic Countries.
The introduction of the machine to reduce the cost
of production, and create a surplus, has pushed mil
lions out of employment in Germany; thereby de
stroying purchasing power. Having no money to
buy, the masses are "starving, amidst abundance."
The total capacity of the United
States Machine Equipment has been
estimated at one-billion horsepower,
from all sources. This tremendous
264 PLENOCRACY
energy can do the work of ten-bution
men, or five times the Earth's total
population. And there is no way of
stopping the growth; as the years pass,
we shall have more "machinery".
Marconi (The great Italian Inventor), in an inter
view in November, 1932, said: "The way to power-
transmission by radio has been opened, by my suc
cessful experiments with Ultra Short Waves. There
is a possibility that ships at sea, planes in the air
and vehicles on land, will be able to dispense with
their power-plants, and receive their operating
energy from powerful Radio Stations."
Through the Ultra Short Waves sent forth from
Radio Stations, Man's Machines will be geared up
directly to the "Infinite Energy" that moves the
Universe.
The greatest economic machine that we have is
The Solar System. A system of revolving planets,
moving in smooth orbits; spaced with mathematical
precision, in accordance with their size and weight
from the Great Central Source of energy—the Sun.
This magnificent assemblage of units is A Time
Machine, moving through space. It measures time
as it moves through space. It also manufactures
energy. This energy is one; but it expresses itself
in different "forms," such as life, thought, light,
heat, power, color. It is geared to the principle of
"use" and "service," not profit. No man, or com
bination of men, can interfere with its movements.
Through this wonderful machine, the great Sun
pours forth a stream of limitless energy. Man uses
this energy in his own body, and through the ma
chines he has constructed. The energy that we are
TECHNOCRACY 265
now using in America, through our machines, is
only a small fraction of the energy released by the
Sun.
Since the Sun releases the energy for "use" and
"service," any Economic System that uses this
energy to exploit humanity, and pile up private
"profit" for the few, is opposed by the Universe,
itself, and cannot hope to continue to exist. There
is only one way out:
Fall into step with Natural Law and
organize industry and agriculture on
the broad basis of "use" and "service."
Big cities, filled with Cliff Dwellers, are a blot
on our civilization. They are overcrowded. The
home of crime, graft and general rottenness. They
are the natural outgrowth of the false man-made,
artificial "System" we have developed.
The terrific impact of reality in the past three
years, has shown how flimsy the foundations are,
upon which they have been erected. They are over
whelmed in debt. False values have evaporated.
Thousands of skyscrapers sold, to pay taxes. Con
gestion of population, hunger parades, millions out
of work. All this congestion can be relieved, by open
ing up the way for the people to get back to the land.
Instead of appropriating billions of the people's
money to infuse life into a dying "system," if our
leaders would use this money to put the people back
on the land, relief would be on the way. We need
to irrigate the roots of the tree, instead of stupidly
spraying the top.
Under the direction of "Creative Intelligence," the
machine can be made a continual benediction. Indus
266 PLENOCRACY
try can be planned in such a way that production
will always balance consumption.
The energy that moves the steam engine, explodes
in the gasoline engine, burns in the motor and radi
ates in the short waves of the Radio Station, is the
same "energy" that moves the Stars. It is Divine,
keyed to "truth," geared to "use," operates to "serve
the whole." This energy, surging through our ma
chines, can be used to do away with "drudgery."
It is our privilege to align ourselves and our sys
tems with the way that this energy works ; when we
do this, our troubles are over. This has been accom
plished, in PLENOCRACY, or the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE "Plan."
As I studied the conclusions arrived at by these
Eminent Engineers, another thought came to me,
and it is this:—
Human advance is the result of clear thinking in
action.
This Continent-wide Survey, and the conclusions
arrived at, is the result of "clear thinking." It is
not "wish thinking." It is "fact thinking."
The "wish thinker" wishes that conditions were
so and so; and on the basis of that wish, he con
structs his philosophy, formulates his law, or organ
izes his system. He never goes back of the wish,
to see if it is based on the facts. He is afraid of
the facts, because they might spoil his beautiful
theories.
The vast bulk of the conclusions that we have
arrived at; the majority of the thought systems we
have constructed ; the most of the plans that we have
devised, are the result of "wish thinking." This is.
TECHNOCRACY 267
why that the most of our plans won't work, and the
majority of our creations do not endure.
All enduring advance is based upon clear, con
structive fact thinking. First, get all the facts, and
then construct your theory on the basis of the facts.
The conclusion arrived at by this body of engi
neers, will form the basis of a New System for the
production and distribution of goods.
The machine, itself, is the result of thinking in
accordance with the facts; and as these researchers
say, it enters into the solution of all our problems.
Another powerful illustration showing how clear
thinking changed the front of history, is seen in the
case of the Middle Ages.
The World Outlook of those times can be found,
picturesquely and eloquently portrayed, in Dantes
"Divine Comedy" and Milton's "Paradise Lost" and
"Paradise Regained."
The Heavens were looked upon as a solid firma
ment of ten layers, like concentric bowls inverted
over a flat earth; these layers divided the skies into
compartments, and these compartments were peopled
with spirits of varying degrees of Intelligence and
Power. In the Zenith, or Empyrean Realms, above
all, sat the Great God on a throne of dazzling white.
The Earth was like a flat dish, covered with these
ten covers. It had a Sea in the middle of it, which
was called the Mediterranean, meaning "the middle
of the earth." The Earth was composed of some
five elements: Earth, Water, Air, Fire and some
times Light. This Home for Man, Angels and Devils,
was created immediately, some four or five-thousand
years B. C. Man was created instantly by God, in
his own image. Originally, he was perfect; but he
268 PLENOCRACY
fell from his high estate, and his guilt was trans
mitted to all his progeny.
God was looked upon as a Great King, pictured
in the image of earthly Kings. He was located in
the highest part of this primitive Universe. Here
He sat on His white throne, surrounded by His min
isters. These ministers were angels, arch angels and
cherubims. From this throne, he dispensed His
frowning providence to the world of sinful men.
The Devil was a second big King. He was the all-
powerful Ruler of the Underworld, and contested
against the rightful King, for dominion upon the
earth.
This world scheme was the science of that age.
This entire conception, in all its parts, has passed
away. This change did not occur in a moment; it
was brought about by the Inventor and the Scientist.
Gunpowder. The invention of gunpowder was a
simple thing, in itself; but when it was put into
a gun, and used, it had far-reaching consequences.
It leveled all differences, based on muscular power,
and placed the weak man on the same level as the
strong man.
The Steam Engine. This great invention where
the energy packed into coal by the Sun was har
nessed, changed the entire method of producing and
distributing commodities, and gave us the present
system, known as capitalism.
The Printing Press. By this invention, knowledge
was distributed. It could not be monopolized. What
ever man knew, and recorded, could no longer be the
private property of the clerical class. The most
powerful influence in the world, in creating changes,
is the "Distribution of Ideas."
TECHNOCRACY
The Mariners Compass. By its application, man
could direct his course through trackless seas.
Through its use, he came into touch with undiscov
ered continents, and sailed around the world. This
new knowledge of the world swept away all the old
Notions.
The Telescope. Through the use of this instru
ment, man penetrated the deeps of space, and dis
covered that the Heavens were filled with worlds.
Suns and Systems. This knowledge swept away all
the old conceptions concerning the Universe.
The Microscope. Through the use of this instru
ment, man penetrated the infinitesimal, and found
that the atom was a perfect Solar System. With this
instrument, man began the study of "The Beginnings
of Life."
Biology and Chemistry was born.
All these "factors" were brought into existence
by clear-visioned thinkers, and the sciences that
flowed from their use , such as Evolution, Astronomy,
Geology, Physics, Chemistry, Biology and Anthropol
ogy were produced by creative thinkers.
We owe everything we have, which has any value,
to these great thinkers. Such men as Bacon, Har
vey, Newton, Galileo, Copernicus, Priestley, Laplace,
LeVerrier, Herschel, Jones, Lyell, Spencer, Huxley,
Tyndall, Darwin, Wallace, Maxwell, Thompson,
Crooks, Helmholtz, Schlieman, Emerson, Max Muller,
Marsh, Cope, Cure, Edison, Marconi, DeForest. These
great thinkers and others of the same type, are the
real saviours of humanity.
What a marvellous change these great thinkers
have wrought. As Duren J. H. Ward in his book,
"A Receivership for Civilization," says: "Instead of
270 PLENOCRACY
the little Earth that surrounded the Mediterranean
Sea, we have gained Asia, Africa, America and
Australia.
"Instead of the immovable disk, on which a few
people lived, we have a sphere ten times as far around
as their world was broad.
"Instead of standing in eternal stillness, our
world-star is whirling onward, in space, through
starry realms, at a speed inconceivable in their day.
"Instead of the fixed sky, with ten layers shutting
man in beyond possible knowledge of celestial mys
teries, we behold an Infinite Realm, open and free,
dotted with innumerable Suns and Worlds, bespangled
with unspeakable glories.
"Instead of a mankind which had fallen under the
disgrace of an arbitrary tyrant, God, we belong to
a race that is rising during countless ages, from
lowest savagery and barbarism, to unthinkable, en
lightened grandeur, and:
"Instead of a God, too far removed from human
access, a God dealing out his arbitrary commands
with wrathful vengeance in primitive human fashion,
we have an Infinite, all-pervading Spirit, God, mani
fest in every atom and star."
This is a marvellous advance. How profoundly
grateful we ought to be to the great thinkers, who
brought about this change.
Modern "knowledge" never sits down. Science
has no Ultima Thule. We are in the midst of an
Infinite progression. Science is always engaged in
the task of destroying old ignorances, and revealing
new "truths." We know more now than we ever
knew before ; but there are still vast reaches of new
truth to be discovered.
TECHNOCRACY 271
Nature is always ready to answer every query.
My purpose in setting these considerations down
is. to show that all the factors in human advance
have come through the brains of a small company
of clear-visioned thinkers. Organized Government
can claim no credit for this advance; neither can
Organized Religion. In fact, these two institutions
have, repeatedly, blocked human progress. In every
age, they have persecuted, jailed and murdered the
progressive thinker.
In spite of this opposition, the process of destruc
tion and reconstruction is still going on. The "Uni
versal Power" that pervades all things, and directs
the processes of evolution, will not be defeated.
PLENOCRACY or The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan, is the result of clear thinking. The founder,
when he formulated it, was not influenced by author
ity; he was not blinded by superstition, or swayed
by ignorance. He had a clear vision of the way
that nature works, and the plan is modeled on
Natural Law. Man, in his past history, never had
the equipment for advance that he now has. In the
machine, every individual has the equivalent of 165
slaves working for him ; his mental horizon has been
lifted so that he takes in the Universe. There is
no excuse for poverty; no excuse for unemployment;
no excuse for ignorance.
PLENOCRACY and The UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan, is the expression of Natural Law, based on the
earth, and organized in accordance with the Law of
Right Relationships amongst Human Beings, and
will solve all our problems.
Chapter Eleven
THE LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS
MAN
is a relative being. In other words, he is
a harp of a thousand strings and from him
as a centre, lines run out, bringing him into contact
with his immediate, as well as his remote, surround
ings in space.
It is my opinion that man was placed here to
explore these lines of contact and find out the laws
that govern them. This is why he was endowed with
intelligence. Through the exercise of his faculties
in tracing out these lines of communication man
develops his powers and gains knowledge.
So it may be true that if you know the nature and
range of a man's contacts, you can arrive at a fair
estimate of a man's power and the nature of his
character.
New York is a great city because of the number
and range of its contacts. Great ships by the thou
sand on the Atlantic bring it into contact with every
port of importance in the world. Railways, bus lines
and aeroplanes bring it into contact with a great
continent rich in resources, where a great popula
tion think, work and create. Telephone, telegraph
and radio bring it into continuous contact with the
world. Cut New York off from its contacts, it would
die. The Mississippi is a great river because of its
contacts. From all sides tributary rivers and rivu
lets flow into the Mississippi as it rolls on to the
sea. If these streams were diverted, the Mississippi
would dry up and there would be nothing left but
a long crooked gash in the heart of the continent.
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 27 B
I am using these illustrations to show that a man
is known by his contacts. His contacts determine
his power and his greatness. To be sure a man may
have many contacts and not be able to utilize them.
Contacts alone do not assure success. A man must
have the capacity to comprehend and use his contacts.
This principle holds good, not alone in the case of
the individual, it holds good in the case of cities,
nations, and the world at large.
As I said before, it is my opinion that man was
placed here in the midst of these relationships to
develop power, greatness and efficiency through a
knowledge of these relationships. If man does not
know the extent and variety of his surroundings and
he does not know the laws that he must comply
with to come into contact with his surroundings, he
can never progress. We are pulled down into lower
stages of development or lifted up into higher stages
through our contacts. Man's field of progress is
only measured by the extent and range of the things
that are in his environment. His environment is
the Universe and since this is unlimited, no one can
predict when man will cease advancing.
A glance down the pages of history will show that
man has been trying all through his history to gain
a knowledge of his surroundings and trace out the
laws of relationships. Man has made many mis
takes in his quest for the truth in connection with
relationships.
He has mistaken the unreal for the
real. He has accepted illusion for sub
stance. He has taken the counterfeit
v
for the genuine. He has created the
Universe in his own image and accepted
274 PLENOCRACY
it as true, when there was no resem
blance between these pictures of his
imagination and the real facts.
Religion in all its forms was an attempt on the
part of man to find out, first the nature and char
acter of the power that brought the Universe into
existence and second, how he could secure the favor
of that power. In other words, religion in all its
forms aims at establishing right relationships be
tween man and the Supreme Power in the Universe.
In arriving at a conception of the nature of the
Supreme Power man has in every religion clothed his
God or Gods with his own qualities and character
istics. His Gods become big men and women in
possession of tremendous power. They have the
weaknesses and faults common to humanity. The
Gods and Goddesses of Egypt, Babylon, Greece and
Rome were of this type. The founders of the world's
religions always identified themselves with their
Gods. They did not possess the power to separate
themselves from the phenomena they were consider
ing. They could not occupy a detached mental atti
tude. They insisted in putting themselves into the
picture. For these reasons, the structures they built,
the creeds they formulated, and the rituals they
imposed, instead of being a presentation of reality
were cross sections of themselves, inventions of the
imagination having no counterpart in the nature of
things.
So we have different conceptions of God. In one
form God becomes a dreamy mystic enveloped in the
shadows of mystery, who does not care to be both
ered with material things. In fact, contact with
material things would corrupt his immaculate purity.
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 275
In another form he is a master mechanic who con
structed the Universe and spends his time manipulat
ing the levers of the machine and directing its move
ments.
In another form he is a warrior who directs a
great army of invisible fighters and he enjoys the
business of killing his enemies.
In another form he is a great hunter whose chief
delight is the chase.
In another form he is a great Monarch, lives in
a great palace, sits on an exalted throne, has a retinue
of attendants, the Universe is his Empire, lightnings,
floods, storms, epidemics, earthquakes, etc., are the
weapons of his vengeance.
In another form he is a Judge, cold, fierce, implac
able. Hell is his jail. The Devil is his sheriff and
it is his delight to impose terrible penalties upon
those who disobey his laws.
In every case however he is invested with all the
qualities and emotions common to humanity. He is
powerfully sexed. He can be influenced, flattered,
amused or enraged. He has his faults and his
virtues.
Give me a man's conception of God and I will
give you an exact estimate of that man's character.
What a man thinks his God to be that is what he
is himself or what he would like to be.
Science has thrown into the discard many of these
old conceptions. The scientist is dispassionate. He
is cool, impartial and detached. He refuses to recog
nize authority, no matter how venerable it may be.
He will not be influenced by superstition, nor bend
his knee in the presence of ignorance. All theories
must conform to the facts.
276 PLENOCRACY
Religion is a search for reality. Science is a
search for reality. In the new age now dawning,
science and religion will join hands in this search
and we will have a scientific religion.
When the scientist through his reason and the seer
through his intuition finish their task and give us
a scientific religion, this scientific religion will be
a statement of the relationships that unite every atom
of the Universe to every other atom and every living
organism to every other living organism. These
relationships will not be created by the scientist or
the seer. These relationships exist now, always have
existed and always will exist. It is the business of
the scientist and the seer to discover these relation
ships and show man that it is his chief business in
life to bring himself and his institutions into con
formity with these relationships.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is built on the
law of right relationships amongst men. That law
is that the individual's highest interests are best
served when he cooperates with other individuals in
the pursuit of the same end. This plan is therefore
scientific.
No enterprise can run smoothly unless it is based
on and conforms to the natural Laws of Relationship.
Every science is in the last analysis, the result of
finding the Laws of Relationship.
Chemistry for instance is the science of right rela
tionships between atoms. There are about ninety
simple elements in existence. These elements unite
naturally to form all the substances we have on the
earth. This union takes place in accordance with
the laws of chemical affinities or relationships. No
man created these laws. No man can repeal them.
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 277
They cannot be amended or changed in the slightest
particular. These affinities inhere in the atoms
themselves. No man can force them to unite in any
way contrary to the law of their affinities. Dalton
discovered the laws of chemical affinity. Before his
time there was no such thing as the science of chem
istry. That realm was the realm of confusion and
conflicting theories.
He discovered that these atoms would not unite
only in certain proportions and atomic weight. For
instance, water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
When you take two parts of hydrogen and one of
oxygen, put them in a sealed bottle and send an
electric spark through the combination water is pro
duced. This is what happens in a thunderstorm.
The hydrogen and oxygen gases in the atmosphere
are turned into showers of drenching rain as the
lightnings flash through them.
When chemistry became a science, this knowledge
was turned to human use. Chemistry today is the
basis of our Industrial Empire.
These atoms refuse to be bossed around by man.
If he attempts to drive them into a union against
their wishes, they are likely to rebel and blow him
and his instruments into "kingdom come."
Human beings are chemical organisms and they
will not unite against the laws of chemical affinity.
Besides these chemical laws of affinity we have in
humanity mental, emotional and spiritual elements.
These have their affinities also. There is a mar
vellous unity however, in these laws. In fact the
spiritual, the emotional, the mental, and the physical
are different rates of vibration of the same energy.
278 PLENOCRACY
When expressed through and in the body we call it
chemical. When expressed in and through the mind
we call it mental. When expressed in and through
the feelings, we call it emotional and when expressed
in and through the spirit we call it spiritual.
It would be a good thing if our statesmen and
law makers would study the science of chemistry.
Through a knowledge of its laws they might discover
the causes of revolution, strikes and divorces. There
is a perfect unity running through the entire Uni
verse. This unity is the result of the action of an
Infinite Energy. Some scientist called this energy
"The Power, not ourselves that works toward right
eousness." The religious man calls this energy God.
It is this power that invests those atoms with the
desire to unite in certain proportions that no human
agency can change. When atoms do combine they
always produce another element that is much more
valuable than they were when existing alone. In
other words, an atom in combination with others is
of greater value than it is standing alone. Here then
you have individuality or self interest and co-opera
tion, where the individuals combine, each one becom
ing more valuable to himself and others.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is built on
these laws, therefore it is scientific. The individual
member enriches himself when he joins himself in
co-operation with others and the reason he joins is
this: he knows that he will enjoy greater prosperity
when he unites in co-operation with others than if
he remains alone. The member unites through his
own free will and choice. No high pressure methods
are used. He is not forced nor cajoled into the union.
It is his own free natural act.
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 279
Astronomy is a science. It is the science of the
relationship that exists amongst the stars. The
story of man's attempts to trace out the relationship
existing amongst the stars is very interesting indeed.
As we read this story, we get acquainted with some
great men, Ptolemy, Galileo, Copernicus and others.
But the greatest amongst them was Newton. Before
his time there was no such thing as the "Science of
Astronomy." It was the realm of guess, conjecture
and conflicting theories. Newton discovered and
formulated the law of gravitation. This law is that
"every particle of matter in the Universe attracts
every other particle in proportion to its density and
decreasing in proportion to the squares of the dis
tances they are separated."
This law controls the motion of every thing in the
Universe from the smallest mote that floats in the
sunbeam to the largest sun that revolves in space.
This law was always in existence. Out of this law
the Universe was born and it presided over and
directed the construction of planets, suns, systems
and galaxies and it is still operating. It is the
supreme law. It created the relationships that exists
amongst the stars and controls these relationships.
It cannot be repealed, changed or modified by man.
It has been said that Newton discovered this law
when an apple fell from a tree and hit him on the
head, as he sat in his orchard. His dog was lying
beside him and when the dog saw the apple rolling
along the ground, he thought it was a ball and he
ran and picked it up and brought it back to his
master. The brain capacity of the dog would not
allow him to go any further, but Newton, because
of his brain capacity, went further and asked the
280 PLENOCRACY
question "why did the apple fall?" Finally, after
much intense thinking and experiment, he discov
ered and formulated the law of gravitation.
This law furnished the key to the explanation of
the Universe and is the basis of the "Science of
Astronomy." What are the results of the operation
of this law? To see the results, let us consider the
Solar System. The Solar System is the small assem
blage of planets that revolve around our Sun. These
planets are Mercury, Venus, The Earth, Mars,
Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and the planet re
cently discovered, Pluto. There are countless mil
lions of systems in space beyond the limits of our
little system, all governed by the same law. We
will not bother ourselves with them. We will con
sider our own little system and see how this law
operates and what results it produces.
We are not going to enter into deep, scientific
discussions. We do not propose to burden our brains
with formulaes. All we want is something prac
tical, something we can use, something that will
benefit us and help us to make this world a better
place wherein to live, work and play.
In the first place, as we consider the Solar System,
we find individuality. Each planet is separate from
every other planet in the system, moves in its own
appointed orbit and fulfills its own destiny.
Second, we find unity. The Sun is a great body,
one million, three hundred times larger than the
earth, spinning in the centre of its own magnetic
field at the rate of 20 miles each second, cutting
through the lines of cosmic force, thus creating limit
less quantities of electric energy, which it sends out
in waves bathing every part of the space in the Solar
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 281
System. The magnetic pull of the Sun on the earth
and planets is equal to ropes of steel attached to
every square inch of their surface. The perfect
balance of the action of the centripetal and centri
fugal forces is such that the planets instead of being
pulled into the Sun, move around it in perfect pre
cision, each planet in its own orbit and all moving
in perfect unity.
Third, co-operation. These planets as they move
in their orbits have a work to do. They are not
placed there on the planes of space for the angels
to play pool with. The principle of utility exists in
everything that exists. These planets have a dis
tinct mission of their own to perform. They are all
related to each other. They are all necessary to
each other. If one was struck out of existence the
balance of the whole system would be destroyed.
For millions of years these heavenly bodies have been
cooperating with each other and the Sun. We, on
the surface of this little earth are the beneficiaries
of this co-operation. In fact, our lives depend upon
this co-operation. If any one of the planets would
refuse to co-operate, balance would be destroyed and
our earth would be shivered into fragments.
Fourth, harmony. When you spin a top and in
crease its speed by whipping it with a cord, it sends
forth a note. The notes get louder the faster the
top spins. Now the Sun is spinning and all the
planets are spinning. Each one is sending out a
note. These notes blend in perfect harmony. In this
harmony we have what Plato called "The Music of
the Spheres." The speed at which they spin varies
and in these variations of speed, we have the modula
tions which create music.
282 PLENOCRACY
The vibrations of this celestial music move too
fast for the human ear.
The planets and the Sun as they co-operate, work
in an atmosphere of music. Obedience to the Law
of Relationships creates this music. As they work
together they express their joy in symphonies.
Fifth, service. The Sun is the great servant of the
Solar System. There is a definite connection between
mass and energy. The mass of the Sun is sufficient
to supply the Solar System with everything it needs
for many million years to come.
Each square inch of the Sun's surface sends forth
each second energy to the amount of 50 horse power.
When this is multiplied by the total number of square
inches which constitutes the surface of the Sun, it
will be seen when the energy is converted into
weight, that the Sun is losing weight at the rate of
4 million tons a second or 360,000 million tons a day.
This energy supplies the earth and all the other
planets with life, light, heat and power. So the Sun
is dying that you and I might live. To be sure it
will take many millions of years before the Sun is
exhausted.
Suns, however, just like you and I, when their
work is done, must die to make room for other suns.
The energy sent forth by the Sun supplies all the
other planets with the energy to perform their work.
They also send forth different forms of energy to
supply the other members of the Solar System with
the supplies they need. So you have service and
reciprocity operating constantly throughout the
entire system. All work for each and each for all.
I like to think of the Solar System as a living
organism. The Sun is the heart of this grand man.
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 283
Each planet an energy centre. Mercury, thought.
Venus, love. The Earth, motherhood. Mars, desire.
Jupiter, expansion. Saturn, caution. Uranus, ad
vancement. Neptune, intuition. I may be wrong in
thinking of the Solar System as a great living being
with a soul. I cannot prove in terms of logic that
it is a living organism. My intuitions lead me to
believe that it is however.
If we look at it as a machine, we see that it is
bound together in accordance with the laws of a
definite relationship. Its individual parts are joined
in unity. Each part co-operates with every other
part to give service to each part and to the whole.
This rhythmic motion creates a perpetual harmony.
Whether you look at it as a machine or a living
organism, it becomes a perfect model for humanity.
Any government or human institution set up in
accordance with this sublime model is sure to work.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is constructed
in accordance with this model and it works and
always will work. Mathematics is a science. It is
the science of the relationship that exists amongst
numbers. We have in this science individuality in
number one. We have unity because number one, is
present in every number of combination of numbers.
Two ones are two. Three ones are three and all
throughout addition and multiplication we have co
operation. We can combine figures without any pro
test on their part. They unite in harmony and render
service. But figures will not work for you unless you
ask them to work in accordance with the laws of
their relationships. It is true that figures will not lie
but liars will figure. In fact, the science of numbers
28 4 PLENOCRACY
is the basic science of the Universe. Every science
can be reduced to the science of numbers.
Chemistry for instance is based on numbers. The
number of electrons which fly around in orbits in an
atom is called the atomic number.
An atom of hydrogen is where one solitary electron
revolves around a nucleus, whose charge of positive
electricity is exactly equal in amount, though opposite
in sign, to the charge of the negative electron revolv
ing around it.
Next we have Atomic number two in which two
electrons revolve around a nucleus which has four
times the weight of the hydrogen nucleus, though
carrying only twice its electric charge. This is the
helium atom.
After this we have Atomic number three, in which
three electrons revolve around a nucleus having six
times the weight of the hydrogen atom and three
times its charge. This is the lithium atom and so
on up the scale of numbers to Uranium, the heaviest
of all known atoms which has ninety-two electrons
revolving around a nucleus of 238 times the weight
of the hydrogen nucleus. All the innumerable sub
stances that are on the earth, shoes, ships, sealing
wax, cabbages, carpenters, counts and no accounts,
Democrats, Republicans, walruses, oysters, dogs,
cats, rats, in fact everything every where; —all the
substances composing the earth or growing out of the
earth are built up out of atoms.
One would imagine that there should be millions
of these atoms because of the vast variety of sub
stances on the earth; but there are only about 90
or 92 atoms. These atoms are used over and over
again in different combinations. Even of the 90 or
LAW OF RIGHT RELATIONSHIPS 285
92 already known, the majority are of rare occur
rence. The most of the common substances known
to us are formed out of the combinations of about
fourteen different atoms such as hydrogen, nitrogen,
carbon, oxygen, sodium, magnesium, aluminum, sili
con, phosphorus, sulphur, chlorine, potassium, cal
cium, iron, etc. It is likely that the same substances
out of which the earth is built enters into the struc
tures of planets and Suns.
The point I am making is this, that the science
of numbers lies at the basis of all things. God thinks
in terms of numbers and builds the Universe on this
perfect science.
What is needed today more than anything else is to
give the men who represent us in the chairs of official
authority a thorough course in science. Every de
partment of government should have specialists at
the head of it, masters in science who would organize
that department in accordance with the laws of right
relationships.
Now chemistry is a great science. Astronomy is
a great science. Mathematics, Geometry, Geology,
Biology, are all great sciences and extremely valu
able, but the greatest science of all is the science of
Sociology. All these sciences are built on right rela
tionships.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan
is PLENOCRACY in action. It is a
scientific method of building a new
social order. It will meet every emer
gency, adjust itself to any situation,
solve all the problems of the individual
and society automatically and satis
factorily.
Chapter Twelve
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES
OF PLENOCRACY?
TO
FIND out who are the enemies of the UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan is extremely important.
If you tell me the character of your enemies, I
will tell you the kind of a person you are. If you
tell me the character of the enemies of a movement,
I will tell you the character of that movement.
If you can correctly analyze the motive and nature
of the enemies of a man or a movement you can
arrive at an accurate estimate of that man or that
movement. In addition to discovering the character
of the man or movement opposed, you will also obtain
a correct estimate of the character of the opponents.
It works both ways and the deductions you arrive
at are infallible.
In fact, you do not need to engage in a long process
of reasoning. The results stand out as clear as day.
Why does a confirmed jailbird hate a policeman?
The policeman represents law and order. The con
firmed jailbird is against law and order.
To get a clear answer to the question, however,
I would have the reader take a journey with me
back through history. If we can find in the course
of history, movements that possess similar charac
teristics to the plan known as UNIVERSAL SERV
ICE, and find who were the enemies of such move
ments, such an investigation will assist us in deter
mining who the enemies of the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan are and why they oppose it.
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 287
With this end in view, we will go back almost two
thousand years ago to a small province of the Roman
Empire known as Palestine. This small patch of
land bordering the Mediterranean Sea has been the
birthplace of men whose utterances have profoundly
influenced the human race. Who can measure the
tremendous influence that the Bible has exerted in
moulding the thoughts of millions in every genera
tion and who can measure the influence of the Bible
in moulding the thoughts of millions in this modern
age. Every word in this collection of sixty-six docu
ments known as The Bible was written by men who
were born in Palestine.
Again Palestine was the birthplace and theatre of
operations for one of the most powerful men of all
history and it was on this small patch of land that
he started a movement that has touched the lives of
countless millions in every age and race and is one
of the most powerful influences in modern thought
and action today.
This great man was the Nazarene carpenter,
Jesus. Renan the great French thinker and phil
osopher, who has been called an infidel said concern
ing Jesus, "this sublime person who each day pre
sides over the destiny of the world, may be called
divine, not in the sense that he absorbed all the
divine, but in the sense that he is the person who
has impelled his fellows to make the greatest step
towards the divine. Humanity in its totality pre
sents an assemblage of low beings, selfish, superior
to the animal only in the single particular that its
selfishness is more reflective. Still from the midst
of this Universal depravity, pillars rise towards the
sky that testify to a nobler destiny. Jesus is the
PLENOCRACY
highest of these pillars and shows to man whence
he conies and whether he ought to tend."
To get a clear conception of the character of the
movement he started we must first get a clear con
ception of what the Jewish commonwealth had been
in past history and second, get a clear conception
of its condition at the time he started his movement.
The foundation principles and laws of the Jewish
commonwealth were laid down by Moses, their great
lawgiver. These principles and laws influenced
beneficially every part of the life and activities of
the individual and the nation. Everything in con
nection with the system devised by Moses was based
upon economic freedom. So everything was based
upon the land because this wise lawgiver knew that
apart from the land it would be an impossibility to
build a prosperous community. So in accordance
with this idea, every Jew was allotted a piece of
land and if through mismanagement or misfortune
he lost it, it was restored to him or his descendants
every fiftieth year. This year was called "The Year
of Jubilee."
This piece of land with its vine and fig tree rooted
the Jew in Palestine and made him a patriot. A man
will not willingly fight for a boarding house but he
will fight for his home.
Again Moses outlawed the taking of interest or
profit. One of his laws was as follows, "thou shalt
not lend upon usury to thy brother, usury of money,
usury of victuals, usury of anything that is lent upon
usury."
In Leviticus, 25th, verses 36-37, the law reads,
"take no usury of him or increase, but fear thy God
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 289
that thy brother may live with thee. Thou shalt not
give him thy money upon usury."
According to this law in the Jewish commonwealth
there was no interest taking and no profit taking.
In fact, the penalty imposed upon the violators of
this law was particularly severe.
In Ezekiel, 18th, verse 13, it says, "He hath taken
interest shall he then live. He shall not live. He
hath done all these abominations. He shall surely
die. His blood be upon him."
Ezek. 22nd, verse 12th, it says, "Thou hast taken
usury and profit and thou has greedily gained of thy
neighbor by extortion and has forgotten me, saith
the Lord God. Behold therefore I have smitten mine
hand at thy dishonest gain which thou hast made."
Moses, the great philosopher and lawgiver knew
that a prosperous and enduring commonwealth could
not be created when the members were divided into
two classes, the producer and the non-producer.
The non-producers were the inflationists, the money
lenders and the profit takers.
Suppose all the Jews left their farms and crowded
into the cities, organized stock exchanges, money
lending institutions and corporations. In other
words, became non-producers and exploiters. What
would happen? Everybody would starve to death.
The only man that would be of any value to the
community would be the grave digger and the under
taker.
The laws of Moses when obeyed effectually pre
vented the creation of a non-producing class.
These laws were so arranged that no such thing
as fictitious wealth could be produced. All wealth
290 PLENOCRACY
was produced by the application of energy to the
land.
So the possibility of beggars, millionaire brokers,
money lenders, inflationists was rendered impossible.
History reveals that so long as the Jews obeyed
the laws of Moses they were powerful and prosper
ous. But when they disobeyed these laws, embarked
on the business of creating fictitious wealth they
became an easy prey to their enemies and the com
monwealth went down in hopeless ruin.
In the days of Jesus, Palestine was a province of
the Roman Empire. The people were down and the
foot of the savage conqueror was on their necks.
The Emperor at Rome was an autocrat, the lives,
the liberties and the property of the subject people
were at his disposal.
He had his representative in Jerusalem. He was
known as the provincial governor. It cost an im
mense amount of money to sustain the Emperor, his
winter and summer palaces, his hosts of servants,
his armies, his representatives, etc.
This vast establishment cost billions and the
people had to pay the bill.
So the inhabitants of Palestine had to surrender
nearly all they produced to the tax gatherer.
When Rome conquered another nation it was their
custom to set up some leader belonging to the con
quered nation as a puppet king. It was their policy
also not to disturb the religion. So the authorities
in the religious realm were allowed to hold on to
their jobs. These puppet kings were loyal to Rome
because it gave them the privilege of robbing the
people. The king represented his own people, but
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 291
he also represented Rome and lived in a splendid
palace. To sustain him and his host of hangers-on
required a lot of money and the masses had to fur
nish it.
The priests or ministers of religion who were left
in their positions of power by Rome, had to have
money in large quantities to sustain their temples
and retinue of priests; the producing masses had
to supply it.
So it can be easily seen that the condition of the
masses was one of extreme poverty and hopelessness.
Jesus belonged to the masses. He was a carpenter,
a working man. He was a member of a secret
brotherhood known as the Essenes. It is my opinion,
however, that he began to organize a great brother
hood of his own, based on Universal principles and
his ultimate purpose was to restore the common
wealth of Israel as it was planned by the great law
giver and founder, Moses.
It was his evident intention to adapt the prin
ciples and ideas of Moses to the needs of the World.
Jesus in himself was a Universal man. He had an
inward consciousness that he was one with the
"Infinite Energy," out of which all things proceed
and into which all things retire. He said, "I and
the Father are one." Being conscious of this oneness
with the source of all things, he was also conscious
of his oneness with humanity. In fact, he was the
incarnation of this consciousness. It was an integral
part of himself. In fact, it was himself. This
supreme thought was the impelling power in his
life and forced him into the field to organize the
toiling and enslaved masses into a great brother
hood.
292 PLENOCRACY
All the principles that were universal in the plan
of Moses he used and all that was local and frag
mentary he brushed aside. He lifted all the universal
elements of the "Mosaic Plan" out of their narrow
and local realm of application and made them uni
versal. Instead of approaching his great task from
the standpoint of the material, he approached it
from the standpoint of the Spiritual. In other words,
he emphasized the Spiritual, at the same time in
putting the emphasis on the Spiritual, he did not
neglect the material.
He said referring to the laws of Moses, "I came
not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it."
In reference to the heavy burdens that the toiling
masses carried he said, "Come unto me all ye who
are weary and heavy laden and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me for my
yoke is easy and my burden is light."
A free translation of this from the original Greek
would be this, "Come unto me all ye who are weary
through your toil, all ye whose bodies are bent over
by the heavy burdens placed on your shoulders by
your masters. Join in my great brotherhood. When
we get strong enough, we will gain freedom and
time for rest, recreation and enjoyment."
Here is another statement. "Seek ye first the king
dom of God and his righteousness and all these
things shall be added." The things added refer to
the supply of the material needs such as food, fuel,
clothing and shelter. The kingdom of God means an
organization. An individual may seek the kingdom
of God and find it and at the same time starve to
death. He may seek the kingdom of God and find it
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 293
and be thrown into jail like Bunyan or burned at
the stake like John Huss or beheaded like Paul.
But if 50,000 or 1,000,000 individuals seek and
find the kingdom of God and then combine them
selves into a great co-operative brotherhood, none
of them will starve to death, nor go to jail or be
beheaded. Ail things that are of value would be
under their control and management.
The philosophy of Jesus is not a philosophy of
the future life, it is a scientific philosophy of the
present life. His story of Lazarus and Dives was
not given to show that the inequalities of the present
life were evened up in the next life. It was given to
show that selfishness created its own hell. That the
act of Dives refusing to feed Lazarus was anti-social
and carried within itself the fires of hell, from which
Dives could not escape neither in this life or the
next.
What then are the living factors in the picture?
Here is the situation:
First—we have a man, a living dynamic individual.
Second —he is proclaiming ideas and presenting a
plan which will lift the masses and give them free
dom and property.
Third—he is organizing the masses. They follow
him in crowds. He has a bodyguard of twelve.
Fourth—if his plan succeeds, then the kings and
the priests of his time would lose their easy jobs and
their graft.
Any person can now see clearly who would natur
ally be his enemies and the enemies of his plan. The
exploiters of the people who occupied positions of
power and ease in church, state and business, would
be his enemies. But let us follow the fortunes of this
PLENOCRACY
man and see what happened to him. For three years
he taught and worked amongst the people in Galilee.
He decided that he would go to Jerusalem where
the powerful exploiters had their headquarters. He
decided to go at a time when there would be a vast
crowd there. It was the occasion known as "The
Great Festival of The Passover." This festival was
held in Jerusalem and Jews from all over the known
world would be present. The crowds generally were
so great that the city could not accommodate them.
The people were compelled to live in tents on the
outside of the walls. It was a religious festival.
Every loyal Jew was expected to make contributions
in sacred money to the temple fund. Every loyal
Jew was also expected to offer sacrifices for his own
sins and that of the nation. These sacrifices con
sisted of pigeons, lambs or sheep. Many of these
visitors came from distant countries and to make
contributions to- the temple in sacred money they had
to have their foreign money changed. Besides they
had to buy the pigeons and lambs with Jewish sacred
money.
Now at that time Caiphas was the high priest.
He and his sons perfected a scheme whereby they
monopolized all the temple privileges and they en
tered into a grafting alliance with the governor and
the puppet king to share the spoils.
The scheme was this. To charge a heavy discount
in changing the money. To compel the people to have
all the money changed inside of the temple enclosure
and to buy all the pigeons and sacrificial animals
from them inside of the temple enclosure.
This monopoly gave the grafters millions in
criminal revenue. Jesus followed by a great crowd
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 295
came to Jerusalem during the great festival and
when he entered the temple to make his contribution,
he saw the tables of the money changers and the
seats of those who sold doves. He became righteously
angry and he made a whip of small cords and kicked
over the tables of the money changers, scattering
the heaps of money all over the pavement, opened
the doors of the pigeon cages and let the pigeons fly
out. He then whipped the grafting criminals out of
the temple and as he did he cried out, "My father's
house was to be the house of prayer for all nations,
but ye have made it a den of thieves."
This act on his part brought the conflict between
him and his enemies to a climax. He imagined that
he had the masses with him. Yesterday they fol
lowed him in triumph and shouted themselves hoarse,
crying, "Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he
that cometh in the name of the Lord." The masses
however, cannot be relied on. They do not think.
They are swayed by the passing emotion. They left
him alone. He returned to the shadows of the Garden
of Gethsemane, accompanied by a few devoted dis
ciples. There he fought a great internal battle. There
he was betrayed by the faithless Judas into the hands
of his enemies. The following day he was crucified.
As we stand by his cross and hear him pray for his
murderers , "Father forgive them for they know not
what they do" we can see in him humanity lifted
into union with the divine. Humanity in its highest
expression.
As we hear his murderers hiss out between closed
teeth expressions like this, "aha, aha, he saved
others, himself he cannot save." "We have won, in
an hour or so he will be dead."
296 PLENOCRACY
As we hear them and look upon their hands
stained with the blood of innocence, we see how low
humanity can sink. We see humanity in league with
hell. The exploiters, the grafters, the money lenders,
murdered Jesus. They were his enemies and in every
age they are the enemies of any man or plan that
would abolish their robber schemes or criminal meth
ods of graft and exploitation.
Who then are the enemies of The UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan in this modern age? The same type
of men. The exploiters, the grafters and the creators
of fictitious wealth.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is based on the
one supreme reality:—The productive power of the
earth. It invites every citizen of the United States
to put his money in the earth. This bank will never
break and it is proof against the burglar. He is sure
of the natural increase on his money each year. The
productive power of Mother Earth guarantees this.
If he would rather have a piece of land instead of
the 30% each year, he can have a deed to a small
farm in a high state of cultivation, free and clear
of all incumbrance and he is free to select this farm
in any part of the United States. He sees where his
money goes. He can watch every penny of his con
tribution at every step of the transaction. Nothing
is hid from him. There is no inflation, no graft, no
manipulation, no exploitation. His honest money is
put into honest soil and through the application of
scientific and intensive methods by competent farm
experts, the increase of 30% is assured because of
the law of general averages in production. All dis
honest methods, sharp practices and high pressure
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 297
tactics are forever eliminated in the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan.
The only way to build an everlasting civilization
is to build honest men and honest women.
The only way to build honest men and honest
women is to provide a plan whereby they can make
their living- through honest methods.
The only honest method is to invest money and
honest effort into good old honest earth. When this
is done the_ reaction creates honest men and honest
women and honest wealth. This is in substance the
UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan. So you can see that
two kinds of wealth are created by this method, ma
terial wealth and spiritual wealth, or money and
character.
If you will tell me the way you make your living,
I will tell you the kind of a person you are. If you
put dishonesty into your business, you put dishonesty
into yourself. If you tell lies in the conduct of your
business you become a liar. If you do not trust any
body after a while you will be so mean that nobody
will trust you. If you use dirty methods in your busi
ness, you will become dirty. On the other hand, if
you put honesty in your business you will become
honest. If you tell the truth you will become truthful.
If you have confidence in people they will have con
fidence in you.
This is the Universal Law. It works day and
night. It is on the job every second of time in every
atom and in every cell.
You did not create this law, neither did I. You
may deny the operation of this law. This denial does
not affect it. You may affirm that it exists but this
affirmation adds nothing to its power.
PLENOCftACY
The author of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan,
knowing this law, built this plan in accordance with
it. His master purpose was to build honest men and
honest women and the only way to do this is to pro
vide an honest way of making a living. It is impos
sible to pick a flaw in a natural law. The UNIVER
SAL SERVICE Plan is built on natural law.
To prove that this plan is in accordance with
natural law, I could go into the field of biology and
show how all forms of life and all types of character
is the result of the methods which the organism em
ployed in making its living. This kind of an analysis
would be acceptable to scientists but I am attempt
ing to instruct the average person and give him the
reason for the collapse of the present system. The
present system, the Old Capitalism, lies in complete
collapse around us because the foundations on which
it was built were unreal and the superstructure was
unreal. It was built on false values and the reaction
of the vast amount of energy expended in building
up this system created men and women that nobody
could trust. Nobody would trust anybody. Finally
the crash came and the vast structure consisting of
nothing but illusions, was wrecked.
When the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is in full
operation in the United States, creating honest
wealth in money and character, all dishonest sharp
ers, schemers, inflationists, high pressure artists,
speculators, exploiters, monopolists, kings, queens,
counts and no accounts, will have to go to work or
starve to death.
When this time comes and brother, believe me it
is coming, and this good for nothing crowd tries to
WHO ARE THE ENEMIES? 299
put the old plan back into operation, I, for one,
would be willing to let them try it.
But I would put them all together in a big city
with a high wall around it. I would have the pro
ducers boycott them, give them no food unless they
paid for it in honest money. I would compel them
to work out their philosophy of exploitation by ex
ploiting each other.
In a short time we would be deprived of their
company because they would destroy each other. But
we will not be compelled to use such a drastic meth
od. Natural law will attend to this work for us. In
fact, Natural law is doing this work of destruction
now. All false systems together with their builders,
are being destroyed. So why should we worry about
the enemies of our plan. We are working in harmony
with omnipotence and the attacks of our enemies
minister to our advantage.
I have read of a temple that had a magic dome.
This dome was so constructed that every kind of
noise made in the building discordant or otherwise
was caught up by the magic dome and transformed
into the sweetest music.
So it is with the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan.
It is so constructed that it can catch up the discord
ant attacks of its enemies as well as the harmonious
defense of its friends and transform it all into the
sweetest music.
/ would have you understand that
PLENOCRACY and the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan is not a substitute for
Christianity. It is not a Religion. It is
300 PLENOCRACY
a Science. It is the result of a scientific
study of business activity from the
standpoint of social welfare.
It condemns the present system because it is
largely based on graft and exploitation. It condemns
it because it does not distribute the social income
fairly. It substitutes a Plan based on Mother Earth,
the source of all wealth. A plan which will create
real wealth and distribute it in such a way that all
the members of society will be satisfied. No honest
man will oppose it. But the grafter, the inflationist,
the manipulator, in fact, all the members of the
tribe of non-producers, will oppose it. Their opposi
tion is a proof of its value. Because they do not want
it is the reason why we should have it. It will abolish
their false methods and result in their salvation as
well as our own.
Chapter Thirteen
PLENOCRACY, A NEW BUSINESS
TECHNIQUE
NO
PERSON can understand the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE Plan unless he can divest his mind
of all his preconceived ideas of doing business.
For the past fifty years we have lived, moved and
had our being in an atmosphere of cut throat com
petition. Our teachers in the realm of business were
the so-called successful men, bankers, corporate mag
nates and such like. We have sat in their schools,
knelt at their altars, greedily absorbed their instruc
tions until all the thinking we do is in accordance
with their methods and all the ideas we have they
furnished them. These teachers have taught us that
competition is the life of trade, that it keeps down
prices and that the only way to win is to get the
other fellow and get him first or he will get you.
After 50 years of thorough training under our emi
nent school-masters we are as fine a bunch of thugs
as ever ran a neighbor out of business or foreclosed
a mortgage on a widow or the fatherless. We have
graduated in the fine art of grabbing the wealth the
honest toiler created and we have taken a post gradu
ate course in the art of creating spurious wealth and
making it appear real.
If I can control the stream of information that
flows into another man's mind for six months, I can
control that man's life and direct his movements.
The ideas that I have given him master him.
For the past fifty years the creators of spurious
302 PLENOCRACY
wealth have been pouring into the brains of the
gullible public from every available source, streams
of false ideas about creating wealth without work.
This false information has been furnished us in
our newspapers in double headed type at the break
fast table; at the noon hour and before we go to
sleep at night. It has poured into our homes through
the radio. It has disfigured the landscape on immense
signboards, shutting off our view of the natural
scenery of lake, mountain and valley.
It has been written on the clouds by day and in
letters of fire by night, by aeroplane. It appears on
the sidewalks as we walk the streets. It has captured
the pulpit and falls from the lips of the preacher,
who ought to be the mouthpiece of God. Above, be
low, to the right and to the left, on all sides of us,
this false information confronts us. We live in
it,
we breathe
it,
we are saturated with it. It has be
come
a
part of ourselves. In fact,
it
is ourselves.
The average man is like
a
cheese mite. A cheese mite
is
born in cheese, lives in cheese, eats cheese and
is
composed of cheese. If this little mite could talk and
you should ask
it,
"Why cheese?"
it
would say, "Be
cause cheese." Its Universe
is
the world of cheese.
It
knows nothing outside of the world of cheese.
So these purveyors of false information have
created
a
false world for themselves and us. If these
men who have created this false world knew that
they were building
a
grave for themselves and their
victims,
I
wonder
if
they would continue to build it.
It is remarkably strange, but
it
is
profoundly true,
that the supreme power in the Universe allows
foolish men to wreck themselves and their victims.
What
is
the nature of this spurious information
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 803
furnished us by our teachers in lavish quantities and
what is their purpose in furnishing it?
The nature of the information is easily discovered
when we know their motive in furnishing it. Their
motive is to get our hard earned money away from
us so that they can use it to make themselves
wealthy. If they would tell us the truth as to their
intentions they would never get a cent from us. So
they are compelled to tell us a lot of things that are
absolutely false.
They have no respect for us. They know that we
are a crowd of stupid suckers. They know that we
cannot think for ourselves. One of our leading uni
versity professors has recently prepared an amazing
document on the subject called —"A Brief History of
Stupidity." In this work he shows clearly that the
stupid have been ruled by the stupid since the dawn
of human history. If by accident a bright and intel
ligent man finds his way into the world, the stupid
rise in arms against him and exterminate him as a
common enemy. We glorify stupidity. We look up to
it. We send stupidity to the Senate and elevate it to
the supreme bench. We have created an aristocracy
of the brainless. The less brains you have the easier
you can get along. The street cleaners in our cities
find tens of thousands of letters mailed in trash
cans. Now these letters must have been mailed by
citizens who claim that they always think before
they act.
Match box manufacturers find it necessary to tell
the purchasers of their articles where to scratch the
match. If doors were not labeled push and pull, some
of us would stand in front of them all night. And
some of us would not know how to get out of a
304 PLElSOCRACY
building unless "exit" signs were hung over con
venient apertures. War is the climax of stupidity.
We build marble shafts to commemorate human
butchery. We cover the breasts of wholesale mur
derers with golden medals and drop retail murderers
through a square hole in the floor. We pass laws
creating the conditions that produce criminals. We
then arrest the criminals that we have created, put
them in jail and compel them by law to divide their
swag with us.
Because of this Universal stupidity it is an easy
matter for the exploiter and the creator of fictitious
wealth to fool us. Seventeen millions of us poor
dupes put all our savings into the hands of the cre
ators of spurious wealth in Wall Street and lost it
all in the recent crash. If you were to ask any of the
seventeen millions who lost, why was it that he lost,
he could not give you an intelligent answer.
The smooth tongued exploiter told us that we
could get something for nothing and we all fell for
it. If we had stopped a moment to think we would
have seen that it is impossible to get something out
of nothing.
He told us that money would work for us. If we
had stopped to think we would have seen that money
in itself is a dead thing, that it cannot grow, it can
not increase. Money in itself has no value. If you loan
a dollar at 6% interest it eats itself up in a little
over sixteen years.
The entire system of the Old Capitalism is false
and contrary to natural law. It violates all the real
laws of human associations. It always has and al
ways will produce a series of crashes, each one worse
than the one that preceded it.
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 305
These crashes are nature's efforts to drive us back
to natural human relations in creating wealth. We
are all equally guilty. We have created, consented to,
and co-operated in building up a system of creating
wealth which cannot, never has and never will en
dure. In this false system, relations are all one sided.
All the protection is on the side of the exploiters
who use other people's money and all the risk is on
the side of the owners of the money who play the
other fellow's game. This system of unguaranteed
deposits in banks and insecure securities in corpo
rations, is a game where all the cards are stacked
against those who give their money over to others
to use it.
The crash and consequent depression should show
the millions who lost that when they deposited their
money or turned it over to others to use, by that
act they lost their rights of ownership in it, or its
equivalent in kind. Fifty thousand millions have gone
up in smoke on these insecure securities and those
who invested real money had no chance to know that
these securities carried promotional inflation far in
excess of the sound economic value they were sup
posed to possess.
Greed is the spirit that dominates such a system.
Its so-called implied contracts setting up financial
relationship are one sided, unfair and inequitable.
I have made this analysis of the nature of this
old system to show how hard it is to get a man who
has been trained in it, to see the meaning and pur
pose of PLENOCRACY. The UNIVERSAL SERV
ICE Plan, which is PLENOCRACY in action, is
built on the natural law of human relationships.
This system created no new laws. It fits itself into
306 PLENOCRACY
the laws that already exist in human nature and in
human associations. There is a vast difference be
tween forcing people into a man-made cast iron sys
tem and allowing them to form an association of
their own for protection in a natural way.
Before an individual can clearly understand the
difference between the old system under which we
have been operating and PLENOCRACY, he must
see clearly the difference between the foundations
on which they are built.
In order to enable the reader to see this difference,
I would have him understand that there are two
creatures in existence —
First—The corporate creature created by the
State.
Second —The natural creature created by God.
The corporate creature is born through the opera
tion of man-made laws, laws formulated by the law
making bodies of the various state legislatures.
Within the womb of these laws the child is conceived
and invested with certain powers which enables it
to perform certain functions. These various crea
tures vary in their powers and functions. Some are
brought into existence to do one thing and some an
other. The gentlemen who create the child and the
doctors who preside at the delivery are generally the
paid employes of the exploiters.
Now it is true that the state can whip the child,
tax it, favor it, or kill it altogether.
We have 48 states and therefore 48 different kinds
of state creatures known as corporations.
The reader must note that all these creatures are
man made. They are therefore artificial and arbi
trary. If any one of them is built in accordance with
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 307
natural law they are good and will work. But the
majority of them are in direct conflict with natural
law. And this is why we have so many courts, law
yers and judges. Law is simple justice. In fact law
is the application of hard, honest, common sense.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION was
not born in the womb of any state. It had its origin
in the common instinct which exists in the heart of
every man. The instinct to unite in an association
for self preservation, defence and protection.
The second creature is the natural creature cre
ated by God. This creature is the individual. Now the
individual at the time he took his first breath and
commenced an independent life was in possession
of certain inherent rights and was endowed with
certain powers and capable of performing certain
functions. These inherent rights were not given to
him by any power foreign to himself and they can
not be taken away from him by any legal enactment.
He has the right to life. He has the right to regulate
his own life. He has the right to property. He has
the right to sell it, barter or exchange it. He has the
right to associate himself with his fellows for mutual
aid, defense, protection and fellowship. He can do
all these things without asking the sanction of any
king, congress, senate, law maker or state. The in
dividual did this for many centuries before anybody
thought of a corporation. The corporation came in
with the factory system and is the natural outgrowth
of the system of exploitation.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
then did not have its origin in any human law. It is
the free action of free men and women uniting in a
308 PLENOCRACY
common fellowship to gain certain things that they
all want.
It will be clearly seen by any intelligent thinker
that the words, slogans and documents used in the
Old Capitalism are different from those used in the
UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan.
For instance, we will take the word contract. That
word and document is a part of the old system. The
word itself is from two Latin words. "Con" with or
together and "traho," to draw. It conveys the idea
of drawing people together by force. In the UNI
VERSAL SERVICE Plan people are not drawn to
gether by any external force. They come together
freely, inspired from within. The word contract con
veys the idea that you have to tie people together
in order to keep them together. In the UNIVER
SAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION a contract is not
needed to keep them together. They stay together
naturally, because every individual is benefited by
staying together and he knows that he will lose if
he separates.
Darwin was the author of the idea that the sur
vival of a species was due to their strength and
ability to adjust themselves to changing environ
ments. Kropotkin suggested that in addition to Dar
win's idea, that the cause of the survival of a species
was found in the fact that they united for common
defense and he tells us that in the case of horses,
they combined against their enemies by placing the
mares and the foals in the centre and the stallions
formed a ring around them with their heels to the
foe. If the common people are to survive they must
unite in a voluntary association for common defense.
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 309
That is what the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSO
CIATION is. It is voluntary therefore no contract
is needed.
There is another word that we do not use and that
word is invest. When we hear the word invest we
always think of putting money into some kind of
stock, bonds, or securities. Stocks, bonds, securities,
debentures, mortgages, etc., belong to the old sys
tem. The recent collapse shows that 90% of that
kind of wealth is nothing but air.
Statistics show that by the end of the first five
months of 1932, the 240 leading issues on the New
York Stock Exchange had lost ninety per cent of the
value they had in 1929. To illustrate this thing vivid
ly, take ten dimes and lay them on the table in a
row and then draw away nine. You will have one
solitary dime left. You can put the nine dimes in
your pocket. But in the case of the stock market,
the nine dimes evaporated. Everybody lost and no
body gained what was lost. The money that was lost
did not exist at all. It was a paper promise, a sub-
stanceless dream. R. L. Burgess in an article in the
September issue of the American Magazine says, "I
know lots of people who had nothing to do with the
stock market but who saw their money disappear
just the same. They thought they were being con
servative, dealing with what they thought were
actual values instead of speculative.
"For instance, I know a New York builder who
in 1929 was finishing a $40,000 residence on a $10,-
000 lot. The owner had paid the builder $5000 in
cash, raised $15,000 on a first mortgage and $20,000
on a second mortgage. The builder took a $10,000
lien on the property for the balance. The builder
310 PLENOCRACY
said; 'I figured that it was a perfectly good risk to
take $10,000 on such a fine property. But before the
job was finished the crash came. The owner could
not pay any more. He could not pay me and he could
not make the payments on the mortgages. The re
sult was that the house was sold under foreclosure.
The holder of the second decided that with the prices
what they were, he would incur further loss if he
bid the house in for enough to protect himself and
pay off in full the first mortgage and my lien. So
he took his loss. But I made up my mind to hold on.
I bid in the property at $25,000 which included the
first mortgage and my lien. It turned out to be a bad
bargain for me. I could not sell it for $25,000. Now
I would like to know what became of that money.
The owner lost $5,000. The second mortgage man
lost $20,000, and I stand to lose'."
This builder made the mistake that we all make.
He mistook money for wealth. We think that money
always has the same value, that a dollar all through
the years represents the same purchasing power.
This would be the fact if we were all co-operating.
But we are all engaged in the business of bidding
against each other and we decrease the purchasing
power of the dollar and make it less than it was
before.
Money is the symbol of wealth, but it is not
wealth. It is supposed to be the standard for meas
uring wealth. But money itself is constantly fluctuat
ing up and down. Under the old system money has
been monopolized by the money gamblers. It is be
ing manipulated, inflated and deflated at will by
these gentlemen. There is no such thing as certainty.
Certainty, stability, and security are impossible. The
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 311
stability of the dollar can never be achieved under
the old system.
In the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan we do not
use the word invest. That word means to clothe. We
have been engaged in the business of furnishing
clothing for the exploiters and inflationists too long.
We have clothed them with power to do as they
please with us. And it has pleased them to divest us
with all our hard earned money and used it to clothe
themselves with purple and fine linen, while we
starve at the front door of their splendid mansions
and pick up the crumbs that fall from their tables.
The members of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE
ASSOCIATION do not put their money into any of
the so-called securities of the old system. They have
cut out forever this stupid business of furnishing
these non-producers with clothing. The members of
the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION put
their money into good old Mother Earth. With their
money they buy the services of men who are trained
in scientific and intensive farming, men who because
of their knowledge, know good land and possess the
necessary information to farm it to the best advan
tage.
The money of the members of the UNIVERSAL
SERVICE ASSOCIATION is not in stocks, bonds
or securities. It is not in Wall Street. Every dollar
of this money is put into the earth. It is safe there
and the increase is natural and constantly increas
ing. Good old Mother Earth returns to her children
in America, sixteen thousand millions of real wealth
each year and if the producers of this wealth do not
get it, it is because they are not organized and the
gamblers have the cards stacked against them.
312 PLENOCRACY
When all the producers of real wealth have their
eyes opened and are instructed in the new philosophy
of PLENOCRACY and are working members in the
UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION, we will
arrange to give the old system and its builders a
decent funeral and place them away without regret
in forgotten graves.
The man who knows the philosophy of PLEN
OCRACY never asks such questions as the follow
ing: How about the company? Is it incorporated?
What is its financial standing? Is Dun and Brad-
streets reports on the company favorable? What are
the records of its officers? What are the guarantees
that the company can carry out, its promises, etc?
All these questions are perfectly proper in con
nection with the old system.
But these questions have no meaning in connection
with the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
and its relations to the Service Agency.
The members of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE AS
SOCIATION speak a different language from those
who live in the kingdom of capitalism. We have dis
carded forever such words as dividends, common
stocks, preferred stocks, bonds, margins, debentures,
mortgages, interest, profit. We have discarded these
words because they represent the things that have
ruined us. Such words cannot be used in the king
dom of co-operation.
As a member of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE AS
SOCIATION you do not need to disturb your mind
about the standing of any company. The record of its
officers. Where it was incorporated. Such questions
do not enter into the relationship that is created
between the members and the Service Agency.
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 313
This relationship is natural, free and in accordance
with the self interest of the member and the self
interest of the Service Agency. The member is satis
fied and the Service Agency is satisfied. To illustrate,
suppose I want a suit of clothes and I know what
good cloth is. I go down to a clothing store and pick
out a suit that fits me, pay the price and go home
and put it on. This is a simple and natural transac
tion. If I want groceries, I go to a grocery store
select what I want, pay for it, take it home and use
it. If I want an automobile, I select the one I want,
pay for it and go riding.
In these simple everyday transactions, I never
think of asking the advice of Dun or Bradstreet. I
never think of looking up the record of the grocery
man, the tailor or the automobile maker. It does
not make any difference to me who the tailor's father
was or his grandfather or great grandfather. The
grocer may have been in jail, that makes no differ
ence. The automobile maker may have been a bank
rupt. None of these things have anything to do
with the business transaction between us. The
tailor, the grocery man, the automobile man have
what I want. I know what I want. I am the boss
at every step of the transaction. My self interest
is satisfied. The self interest of the men I bought
from is satisfied and that is all there is to it.
I am using these simple illustrations to show the
reader that the relationship created between the
members of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIA
TION and the Service Agency is natural.
The Service Agency is organized to serve the mem
bers of the UNIVERSAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION.
The Service Agency selects good land all over the
31 4 PLENOCRACY
United States, leases this land with the option of
buying, employs trained men who understand scien
tific and intensive farming.
The member buys this service and prescribes the
conditions at every step of the transaction and ex
pressly stipulates that he must receive all the increase
up to 30% each year before the Service Agency gets
anything.
The member states what he wants, where he wants
it, how much he wants. The member is satisfied.
He is the boss. The Service Agency is his servant
and it is satisfied with the pay it gets.
So the money of the member purchases the trained
intelligence and energy which the Service Agency
supplies. This intelligence and energy is applied to
the earth and she furnishes the increase. So the
reader can see that in the UNIVERSAL SERVICE
Plan the employer and the employee are tied together
in a natural way. The employer is the member, the
employee is the Service Agency. The self interest
of each is satisfied. The work of the Service Agency
and the contribution of the member, contributes to
the wealth of both. The energy of the one and the
money of the other are put into the earth and the
results are sure, satisfactory and continuous. In
fact, both of these, the member and the Service
Agency, are component parts of the same living
organism, where the work of each builds up the well
being of the whole. An organization that is built
to endure, must be built on the principle of self
interest.
The strength and vitality of the old system is the
result of its being built on the principles of self
interest. The first commandment of the God of self
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 315
interest is: "Thou shalt not infringe upon the self
interest of thy neighbor."
The benefactors and builders of the old system
violated this law. They organized for the benefit of
the few when they became powerful. They deprived
the many of the privilege of organizing for their own
self interest.
The second commandment of the God of self inter
est is : "Thou shalt not monopolize the means of life
for by so doing you will deprive your neighbor of
sustenance. If you slay him you will slay yourself.
You become your own executioner."
The builders and beneficiaries of the old system
violated this law.
The third commandment of the God of self interest
is: "Thou shalt not rob or exploit thy neighbor, for
if you do you rob and exploit thyself." The bene
ficiaries of the old system violated this law.
The fourth commandment of the God of self inter
est is: "Thou shalt not devise means for creating
counterfeit wealth. I, the Lord thy God have pro
vided one way of producing real wealth and that
is by the application of intelligence and energy to
the land. Thou shall not depart from this law. In
the day that thou dost depart from this law thou
shalt begin to die."
The builders of the old system violated this law
and we see the result.
The fifth commandment of the God of self interest
is : "Thou shalt extend to all thy neighbors the same
rights, privileges and benefits that you demand for
yourself. If you refuse, then the rights, privileges
and benefits that you enjoy will be taken away from
you."
316 PLENOCRACY
The builders of the old system violated this law.
Self interest is natural. Its normal expression is
good. If the old system and its beneficiaries had
kept within the limits of the normal expression of
this principle, everything would be all right. But in
the excess of greed they went beyond the limits
of their own self interest and infringed upon the
self interest of their neighbors and by so doing they
pinned against God, because they sinned against their
neighbor. So then we have by this analysis of the
principle of self interest arrived at a definition of
sin. Sin is committed when in the pursuit of his
own self interests a man infringes upon the self
interest of his neighbor. Sin is transgression of the
law. "Trans" means beyond and "gradier" to go.
It is going over the line.
The old system has sinned in a million ways. Its
violations of natural law can never be cataloged.
It has sinned against millions of children in sweat
shops, mills and factories. It has sinned against mil
lions of widows and orphans. It has sinned against
millions of toilers in the shop, in the foundry and
on the farm. The vast accumulation of its own
crimes has returned upon itself and is now sweeping
it away. It cannot be saved. PLENOCRACY which
is the expression of the spirit of the New Age, will
take its place. My advice to you is to get out of the
old system as soon as you can or you will be caught
in the flood. Become a member of the new order
before it is too late.
We can never escape from the destructive con
sequences of the Old Capitalism so long as we con
tinue to practice it.
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE S17
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is the applica
tion of the principles of PLENOCRACY to the busi
ness of producing and distributing the means of life.
PLENOCRACY in itself is an explanation of the
way the Universal Creative Principle works. We
do not know what this principle is ; we cannot define
it; we cannot crowd it within the limits of human
language. Take, for instance, one of its manifesta
tions—the energy that flows from the sun; we call
that sunlight. We cannot put a frame around the
sunlight. If the frame is one thousand or a million
miles square, there is more sunlight outside of the
frame than there is inside.
Now this expression through the sun is only one
of the manifold expressions of the Universal Crea
tive Principle. Since cannot define the sunlight,
which is one of the manifold expressions of this
principle, we cannot hope to define the principle.
There is one thing we can do, however ; we can study
its expressions.
The same is true of electricity. Nobody knows what
electricity is. It cannot be defined. We can say that
it is a form of energy; it is energy in motion; it is
an impulse moving amongst electrons; but none of
these definitions are sufficient. Electricity defies
definition. There is only one thing we can do; we
can study its expressions, we can analyze it in action,
we can find out the way it works. When we know
the way it works, then we can build a machine and
put it to work to serve our needs. In our opinion,
electricity is one of the many expressions of the
Universal Creative Principle.
PLENOCRACY, then, does not attempt to define
the Universal Creative Principle. It does, however,
318 PLENOCRACY
study this principle in action. It adds nothing to,
or subtracts nothing from, these expressions. As we
watch this principle in action, we discover that its
law of action is that of use and service. We have
also found that this principle intelligently directs
energy in space through cycles of time in creating
and sustaining the Universe: also in furnishing the
life forms it has created with an abundance of
supplies.
So then PLENOCRACY is not a creed: it is not
a definition; it is not a dead theory; it is not an
empty hypothesis, or a powerless formula. It is a
living, active, dynamic principle in action. Any man
whose mental and spiritual eyesight is healthy can
see it in action in all parts of the Universe.
The UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan is the vehicle
through which the Universal Creative Principle
works amongst men. It is a flexible economic system
built in perfect alignment with the way this prin
ciple works in all parts of the Universe. It is not
a rigid cast iron system defined and hemmed in by
limitations like the Old Capitalism. It is a flexible
living garment capable of expansion as humanity
grows. Within its expanding limits there is room
and abundance for all.
When the bankers, the lawyers, the preachers, the
promoters, the salesmen, the brokers, the farmers,
the teachers, the professors and the workers know
what this system will do for them, they will all
accept it.
There is just as much difference between 'PLEN
OCRACY and the Old Capitalism as there is between
a flower garden in June and the laboratory of the
botanist. The flower garden in June is the home
A NEW BUSINESS TECHNIQUE 819
of life; it is life expressing itself in the beauty of
form, color and perfume. The laboratory of the
botanist is the home of death. The elements of life
are absent; the flowers have been cut up into parts,
tabulated and labeled; the atmosphere is saturated
with the element of death.
PLENOCRACY in its technique deals with life.
It expresses itself in terms of service to human
beings. The Old Capitalism deals with dead things
such as dollars, stocks, bonds, etc.
So we say that the UNIVERSAL SERVICE Plan,
which is PLENOCRACY in action, in the matter of
supplying human beings with the means of life, is
a new technique for doing business. It is the work
ing principle of the Universe in action. This work
ing principle is life itself. Being a principle, it will
work efficiently in all departments of human activity.
It works with perfect efficiency in all parts of the
Universe and it will work with perfect efficiency in
all departments of human business.
There is a wide difference between an opinion and
a principle. An opinion is fragmentary, incomplete
and because of this it will work only within narrow
limits. A principle is complete within itself and
will work anywhere, at all times, under all circum
stances and for all the people.
The law of increase, which is an integral part of
PLENOCRACY creates a stream of abundance so
full, rich and glorious that it gives splendid rewards
to all who are willing to render service. In this
stream of abundance all the false creations and ficti
tious values of the Old Capitalism are dissolved and
vanish forever.
Chapter Fourteen
RECAPITULATION
,NE of the main ideas presented in this book is
^■J the supreme importance of constructive creative
intelligence.
As we have studied the Creative Principle of the
Universe in action, we have seen that there are four
great factors present—Space, Energy, Time and
Intelligence. We have seen that the Creative Prin
ciple in action uses constructive creative intelligence
in directing energy in space, through cycles of time,
in bringing the Universe into existence and sustain
ing it.
We have shown that we in the United States, have
the same factors —Space, Energy, Time and Intelli
gence. If there were no space, there would be no
room for anything material. The only thing that
could exist would be thought. Thought has no dimen
sions and needs no space. It is spaceless and time
less, but a material Universe, having dimensions,
must have space. To put things together and create
new combinations, man must have space. We call
space, land. No matter what business man engages
in, he must have space or land as the arena of his
operations. He must have space for his own body
and he must have space for his activities. This is
fundamental and basic.
He must have energy. Without energy all the
other factors would be useless. Energy is needed to
bring into expression the potential elements that
lie dormant in space or land. It takes energy to
raise a crop. It takes energy to bring the coal and
RECAPITULATION 321
minerals from the depths of the earth and prepare
them for use. It takes energy to take the raw ma
terial and turn it into the finished article.
He must have time. Without time, which is meas
ured space, nothing that has three dimensions could
exist. We can conceive of thought existing in a
timeless Universe, but the existence of a material
Universe would be impossible. Strike time out of
existence and the human body, together with the
material Universe, vanishes instantly. So man must
have time. He must have cycles, or periods of time,
to complete his tasks.
Now, we have time in days, seasons, years and
centuries. But we must have intelligence. We may
have space filled with potential wealth; we may
have energy in vast quantities; we may have time
stretched through long cycles; but if we lack the
intelligence to harness and direct the energy in space
through cycles of time, we will accomplish nothing.
The American Indian occupied the continent of
America for many centuries before the coming of
the white man. He had the space, the energy, the
time, but he did nothing, because he lacked the con
structive creative intelligence to utilize the other
factors.
The early white man had the intelligence, but it
was not creative, nor constructive. It was a keen,
powerful, cunning, selfish, greedy intelligence; an
intelligence inspired by a raw, rough, unbridled in
dividualism; an intelligence mastered by the desire
for private profit. This kind of intelligence is de
structive and we are in the midst of the destructive
consequences; the few are rich and the many are in
poverty.
PLENOCRACY
The other factors of space, energy and time have
been utilized and directed by this kind of destruc
tive intelligence, with the result that the entire ma
chine of our civilization is sinking in the swamps
of confusion and despair.
It can be clearly seen then that the
factor that is of paramount importance
is constructive creative intelligence.
The constructive creative thinker is the unob
structed vehicle for the expression of the same kind
of intelligence as that which is in operation in the
Universe. Just as the Sun. globes itself in the dew
drop that hangs pendant from the grass blade, so
the intelligence of the Universal Power that created
and directs the energy of the Universe globes itself
in the brain of the unselfish thinker.
The constructive creative thinker, therefore, is "in
tune with the Infinite" and works not for profit, pay
or commission. He works to create things that are
beautiful, true and good. He works just as the Uni
versal Creative Principle works to create things that
are valuable to life. The law which he instinctively
obeys is the law of use and service.
The poet, the seer, the artist, the musician, the
inventor, the statesman and the philosopher, work
ing in the atmosphere of the higher altitudes of
thought, have given the purest truth to man in vari
ous forms of expression, but man in his ignorance,
has in some cases contemptuously, and in other cases,
savagely, rejected this body of truth.
This body of truth contains within itself the prin
ciples and the spirit that will lift stupid man out
of his ignorance, darkness, fear, superstition and
RECAPITULATION 323
poverty into knowledge, light, courage, truth and
prosperity. Thinking, especially of the higher type,
demands self denial and intense concentration and
very few are willing to pay the price.
"Straight is the gate and narrow is the way that
leadeth" to the temple of wisdom, "and few there
be that find it." It is easy to drift lazily with the
tide and hard to row against it. So the masses of
mankind in every country drift with the tide and
allow somebody else to do their thinking for them.
How stupid we have been; we have allowed the
apostles of special privilege to do our thinking for
us in the realm of economics, with the result that
millions of us stand shivering in rags and hunger
amidst plenty, while they who did the thinking for
us "are clothed in purple and fine linen and fare
sumptuously every day."
It must be remembered, however, that "the purple
and fine linen" worn by the guardians of our pros
perity and the sumptuous fare that fill their stomachs
are curses instead of blessings. In a Universe bal
anced by justice, any excess, whether it be that of
prosperity or adversity, is a violation of law, and
cannot escape the penalty.
We have allowed the politician to do our thinking
for us in the realm of government, with the result
that the government has been captured by the apostles
of special privilege. The brains of many of our
political leaders are groggy with graft and they can
not think in terms of service, and their lips have been
smeared with a golden salve so that they cannot
speak in terms of human welfare.
Occasionally we have awakened and decided to
change the personnel of our government, with the
324. PLENOCRACY
hope of obtaining relief, but these changes did not
improve conditions. In fact they have grown stead
ily worse. In the arresting language of a great
thinker, "the blind have been leading the blind and
both are wallowing in the ditch."
This brings us back to the statement made in the
beginning of this chapter, that the factor of para
mount importance in our present dilemma is con
structive creative thinking. No human advance is
possible apart from this type of thinking. "As a
man thinketh in his heart, so is he," and his external
circumstances are the outward expression of his
inner thoughts.
The Old Capitalism is the outward expression of
a raw, savage, greedy, unbridled individualism. It is,
in other words, the vehicle for the conveyance into
action of the untamed animal instincts.
We do not condemn individualism.
This is an essential characteristic of
all creation. It is only selfish indi
vidualism that merits condemnation.
A great nation is composed of indi
viduals who know that the well being
of each one is linked up with the well
being of every other individual in the
nation.
PLENOCRACY is the outward expression of the
law of use and service. It is a vehicle so constructed
that it transmutes the lower instincts of humanity
into higher forms of expression.
When a man understands PLENOCRACY, he will
see clearly that its philosophy does not aim at the
destruction or suppression of man's natural instincts,
but it does transform and lift them to a higher plane.
326 PLENOCRACY
Self-interest, for instance, is the
most powerful instinct in human na
ture. PLENOCRACY teaches the indi
vidual that his self-interest is best
served when his actions tend to serve
the best interests of every other mem
ber of society.
The Old Capitalism thinks in terms of profit only.
If any thought is given to human beings, that thought
is merely incidental. We have shown in the chapter
on "The Grand Illusion" that profits under the Old
Capitalism are a fiction. It is that part of the price
of a commodity which is added to the cost and repre
sents no value.
PLENOCRACY thinks in terms of service and
under the law of natural increase a much larger
return flows to all those who render service to society
than that offered by the Old Capitalism. Under the
law of natural increase there is nothing fictitious in
the values that flow to every member of society who
renders service, and the values that flow to him are
in exact proportion to the amount of service ren
dered.
Old Capitalism thinks in terms of dollars. PLEN
OCRACY thinks in terms of human beings. Dollars
are dead things and have no value whatsoever apart
from human beings. If a man owned all the money
in the world and there was nobody living on the
earth but himself, his money would have no value.
Dollars to be of value must be used to supply human
beings with the means of life. Dollars must be con
verted into a constantly moving stream of commodi
ties to be of any value. Stagnant dollars are a curse.
RECAPITULATION 327
In PLENOCRACY dollars are not hoarded, nor
invested in bonds or paper securities of any kind,
form or fashion. As we have stated repeatedly in
this book, we abjure everything in connection with
the Old Capitalism —its spirit, its philosophy and its
methods.
In PLENOCRACY dollars which represent units
of energy, are put into potential space, or productive
land, and when directed by intelligence through time,
create a stream of commodities for the benefit of all.
The Old Capitalism is an attempt to set up within
the cosmos, (the order and harmony of the Universe)
an economic system that is not in accordance with
it at any point. Such a system being foreign to the
cosmos, cannot endure. It has no real sustaining
power. The only sustaining power it has is that
which is given to it by those who are its beneficiaries.
PLENOCRACY is an economic system set up
within the cosmos that is in alignment with it at
every point. Such a system will endure because it
affords a vehicle through which the Universal Crea
tive Principle can work.
Emerson says, "Man is explicable by nothing less
than all his history, without hurry, without rest, the
human spirit goes forth from the beginning to em
body every faculty, every thought, every emotion,
which belong to it in appropriate events.
"But always the thought is prior to the fact. All
the facts of history pre-exist in the mind as laws.
Each law in turn is made by circumstances pre
dominant and the limits of nature give power to but
one at a time. A man is a whole encyclopedia of
facts. The creation of a thousand forests is in one
acorn and Egypt, Greece, Rome, Gaul, Britain, Amer
328 PLENOCRACY
ica lie already folded in the first man. Epoch after
epoch, camp, kingdom, empire, republic, democracy,
are merely the application of man's manifold spirit
to the manifold world."
Emerson is attempting to show that all history
is an ever widening stream of events and institutions
flowing from the brain of man.
The Old Capitalism, its spirit, words and methods
came from the brain of man, but the pattern in the
brain from which this system emerged was that of
the noble savage. That is what Rosseau called it.
The history of this old system reveals its savage
results.
The results of any system must be tested in the
field of experience. Professor William James said
that the supreme test for any idea or system was
to apply it to life. In other words, put it into action
amongst human beings. If the idea or system im
proved life, then it is good. If it failed to improve
life, then it is bad.
Rudolp Eucken, the German philosopher, said, in
substance, that the only satisfactory test of an idea
or a system is to be found in the life process itself.
The life process in action will bring out the truth
or error of any set of ideas or systems.
The Old Capitalism has been in action for many
years. We have the record of its history in all the
countries where it has been, and is, in operation.
We know the effects that it has produced on indi
vidual character, on society and on the nations. It
has bankrupted itself and almost wrecked the world.
Now, we are not afraid to put PLENOCRACY to
the acid test. It has been in action in the universe
RECAPITULATION 329
for millions of years. It is in action now and will
continue in action for many millions of years to come.
Through the action of this universal power, the
vast theatre of the universe has been brought into
existence. Life in all the multitude of its forms, has
been created and a stream of abundance to sustain
life is constantly flowing in an ever widening channel.
When we duplicate in miniature and put into action
amongst men the plan and program of the Universe,
all our problems are solved. This is the aim of
PLENOCRACY. No one can deny that it is well
worthy of the support of every forward looking man
and woman in the country.
This so-called depression is a benediction. "He
that humbleth himself shall be exalted and he that
exalteth himself shall be abased." The loss of ma
terial wealth is the gain of moral and spiritual
wealth. When the transient vanishes, the eternal
appears. When the clouds of fiction dissolve, the
eternal blue of the skies and the stars are seen. When
a dollar is held close to the eye, it shuts out the sun.
The powerful winds of reality swept away all the
fictitious structures of our false prosperity to show
us the solid foundations of truth.
To obtain the sweet essence of the flowers, we
must bruise them. Pearls are born out of the agony
of the oyster. Coal became diamonds when subjected
to intense heat and pressure.
"All common good has common price;
Exceeding good exceeding.
Christ bought the keys of Paradise
By cruel bleeding."
All great character, whether it be individual or
national, is hammered out on the anvil of adversity.
:
330 PLENOCRACY
The weak man allows circumstances to master him.
The strong man uses circumstances as steps to a
nobler advance.
The false, the fictitious and the untrue has been
swept away and many thousands who never did any
thinking before are busy using their brains. As a
result, we are slowly emerging into a new world of
thought and action. When the last vestige of the
mists of false theories and fictitious methods are
swept out of the minds of the people, the vision of
PLENOCRACY will be seen in clear outline and it
will be accepted as the rule of individual life and
the program for society.
The factor of paramount importance is that of con
structive creative intelligence and in accordance with
this idea in our search for the basic principles of a
new economic system, we have embodied in our dis
cussion the opinions of some of the foremost thinkers
in the world, notably Sir James Jeans, the noted
astronomer ; Professor T. R. Moulton, another astron
omer; Dr. H. A. Overstreet, head of the Department
of Philosophy in the College of the City of New
York; Dr. Henry Pratt Fairchild, Professor of Sociol
ogy in the University of the City of New York; Sir
Ernest Rutherford, a noted authority on the atomic
structure of the Universe ; Marconi, the radio wizard ;
Dr. Arthur Compton of Chicago University, the win
ner of the Nobel prize and the leading authority on
the cosmic ray; Professor R. A. Milliken of The
California Technological Institute, another noted
physicist; Ralph Waldo Emerson, one of the greatest
American philosophers ; Rudolf Eucken and Gerhardt
Hauptman, two outstanding German thinkers and
others.
RECAPITULATION 88I
We have also embodied in our discussions the find
ings of Technocracy and the findings of the five hun
dred eminent experts who were appointed by Presi
dent Hoover in 1929 to make a fact finding survey
of America with the view of finding out what is the
matter with the economic system and what should
be done to remedy it.
H. G. Wells, the noted English writer, says in his
"Outline of History," "Religion and education, those
closely interwoven influences which have made pos
sible the greater human societies —have been the
chief synthetic forces throughout this great story of
enlarging human cooperation."
He also says that there has been a "divorce of
religious teaching from organized education," but
that this is "necessarily a temporary one, a transi
tory dislocation, and that presently education must
become again in intention and spirit religious, and
the impulse to devotion, to universal service and to
a complete escape from self, which has been the
common underlying force in all the great religions
of the last five and twenty centuries, an impulse
which ebbed so perceptibly during the prosperity,
laxity, disillusionment and skepticism of the past
seventy or eighty years, will reappear again, stripped
and plain, as the recognized fundamental structural
impulse in human society."
We have in this book placed strong emphasis on
the teachings of Christ, divorced from theology or
creed. We have stated that there is a complete cor
respondence between the principles he taught and
the principles of PLENOCRACY. The difference be
tween the two is not in the principles, but in the
field of their application. In Christianity, the prin
PLENOCRACY
ciples are applied in the field of spiritual develop
ment. In PLENOCRACY the principles are ap
plied in the field of economics. Christianity is a
religion, while PLENOCRACY is a science. When
PLENOCRACY is in operation in the field of eco
nomics, there will be no conflict between business and
religion. We have shown in the chapter on "Clear
ing Away The Rubbish" the harmony existing be
tween the principles of PLENOCRACY and the prin
ciples of the American system of government, as
they came fresh and clean from the brains of the
founders.
The statement quoted from the pen of H. G. Wells,
intimates that in the new age now dawning, religion
and education will join forces and will create "the
fundamental structural impulse in human society."
Wells in this statement must refer to Christianity,
because Christianity is the prevailing form of reli
gion in the various countries of the world where
this fusion will take place.
The principles of Christianity, as they came fresh
from the mind of its founder, are in harmony with
the principles of PLENOCRACY. In Christianity
these principles become the guiding elements in
spiritual unfoldment. In PLENOCRACY they be
come the guiding factors in economics. In fact,
PLENOCRACY is the application of the principles
of Christianity to the realm of economics. Jesus
said, "I am come that men might have life and have
it in greater abundance." PLENOCRACY is the
science of creating abundance for all. Christianity
was organized to render service. Jesus said, "I come
not to be ministered unto, but to minister." He also
said, "He that will be greatest amongst you, let him
RECAPITULATION 333
be the servant." So the law of action in Christianity
is that of use and service. In PLENOCRACY we
have seen that the Universal Creative Principle ex
presses itself in terms of service to all life and its
law of action is that of use and service. Under both
systems of thought the great man is not the man
who has the world to serve him: the great man is
the man who serves the world.
When we use the tapeline, to measure a great man
in PLENOCRACY, we do not put it around his
muscles; this measurement is the measurement of
the animal. We do not put it around his brain, it
takes a powerful brain to make a successful scoun
drel. We do not put it around his estate, his estate
is what he has and not what he is, and sometimes
an estate represents robbery. We put it around his
heart, to measure the width of his sympathy and the
depth of his sympathetic understanding. This meas
urement will give us a correct estimate of the man's
greatness. It will determine his willingness and
ability to serve. Service is Kingliness. God Himself
is the great servant of His creation.
In the realm of human thought and action amongst
others, we have four great realms : Religion, Gov
ernment, Education and Economics. Now we know
that religion, or Christianity, was organized for
service and not for profit. We know that Govern
ment, especially our system, was organized for serv
ice and not for profit. We know that education,
from the great University in the city down to the
little red school house on the wind swept prairie,
was organized for service and not for profit.
Why then should the Economic system be organ
ized for profit?
PLENOCRACY
The Economic system organized under Old Capital
ism was organized to gain profit for the few; it is
and has been out of step with the ideals of govern
ment, religion and education. All through its history
it has been the traitor—the black sheep—the dis
turber of harmonious action. In fact the Old Capital
ism has perverted the ideals of religion, government
and education and compelled them to minister at the
dirty altars of its own greed.
When PLENOCRACY is recognized as the new
economic system, it will bring about complete har
mony in these four great fields of human thought
and action.
In connection with this part of our discussion, it
is refreshing that we are able to report that forty-
two denominations have come together and formed
the International Council of Religious Education.
This Council is made up of one thousand leaders of
these denominations and they represent twenty-four
million people. They have reached an agreement on
six vitally important points in connection with reli
gious education. The coming together of this vast
body of people with the idea of transforming educa
tion by surcharging it with religious principles, is
a fulfillment of the prophecy made by H. G. Wells.
The fifth point of their platform is
as follows : "A life philosophy should be
built on the interpretation of God's pur
pose and plan."
Now PLENOCRACY traces out in the Universe
the way the Universal Creative Principle works. It
is a scientific revelation of the purpose that pervades
the Universe and animates its plan. PLENOCRACY
RECAPITULATION 335
in its philosophy and technique applies this prin
ciple and its law of action in building a new economic
system.
Since political economy is one of the
branches of study in our educational
system, PLENOCRACY is in full har
mony with the program of this great
movement amongst the churches.
A great man said on one occasion "Where there
is no vision, the people perish." Another clear
thinker said, "Give the people the light and they
will find the way." In this book we aim to give the
people light from the highest source.
Diogenes, the ancient Greek philosopher, who lived
in a tub, was visited by Alexander the Great. Alex
ander had returned from the conquest of the world.
He was riding on his famous war horse and he rode
up to the lowly dwelling place of the great philoso
pher. Seated on his war horse, he stood between the
philosopher and the Sun. The great King looked
down upon the philosopher and haughtily asked him,
"What can I do for you Diogenes?" Diogenes,
standing in the shadow, said, "Do for me! You can
do one thing for me ; do not deprive me of something
you cannot give; stand out of my sunlight."
So in this book our great object has been to remove
the things that have prevented the free flow of the
light of truth to the people.
The truth be of God,
Then so must it be
On earth—to all men
In a Plenocracy.
