{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__knight___mystery_and_prophecy_of_the_great_pyramid.pdf","mytitle":"Mystery And Prophecy Of The Great Pyramid","mylang":"de"}
M v&mv anb Propfjecp
of tbt
43reat Ppramtb
By C h a r l e s S. K n ig h t, D. D.
Author of
"Both Sides of Evolution,” "O ur N ational
Crim e,” “T h e Fetters of H abit,” “ G rowing
Good A mericans,” “ Ca ught," “ Every
Day C hristianity,” Etc.
with Introduction by
DR. ARTHUR I. BROWN, C. M.
Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
volume XIV
SAN JOSE. CALIFORNIA
R O S I C R U C I A N P R E S S
Printing and Publiahing Department
AMORC COLLEGE
f ir s t ed itio n
CoPYRICHT, 1928
By D r. C h a rle s S. K n ig h t
SECOND EDITION
A u g u s t, 1933
Rosicrucian Press
San Jose, Calif.
P R I N T E D I N U . 8 . A .
A famous artist'.*; conception oj the engineering sf{ill exercised by the Egyptians m building the i^ratnid. Huge
blocks, handshaped to mathematical exactness, were ptted end to end, weighing two and a ba/j tons or more each.
DEDICATED
TO
THE REAL STUDENTS OF
THE WORLD.
V
I
T h e R o s ic r u c ia n L ib r a r y
V V V
Volume I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
Volume II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business.
Volume III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
Volume IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In preparation.)
Volume V. “Unto Thee I Grant."
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
Volume VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
Volume VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
(A Vocational Guide.)
Volume VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
Volume IX. Mystics at Prayer.
Volume X Rosicrucian Healing.
(In preparation.)
Volume XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
Volume XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
Volume XIII. The Technique of the Master.
Volume XIV. The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
W rite for complete catalogue.)
C O N T E N T S
V V V
Foreword ...............................................................................9
CHAPTER
I. The C onstruction...........................................17
II. The H isto ry ....................................................... 23
III. The B u ild e r s ..................................................33
IV. The Mystery of its P u rp ose............................41
V. A Symbol of S c ie n c e ...........................................49
VI. Geographical S ig n ifica n ce ...........................61
VII. The Mathematical Sym bolism ..........................69
VIII. The Law of C y c l e s ...........................................81
IX. The Astrological S y m b o lism .......................... 89
X. The Biblical Prophecies.................................... 103
XI. Recent World E v e n t s .................................... 129
XII. Human Progress...................................................141
XIII. The New A g e .....................................................161
XIV. Recent Fulfillment of the Pyramid’s
Prophetic Symbolism .................................... 169
XV. Ancient Pyramid Builders of the Americas 191
FOREWORD
The Great Pyramid of Gizeh is calling forth
many books at the present time, but it seems to
the writer that the author of this volume has
achieved an enviable success.
Much that is written concerning this great stone
monument on the burning sands of the Egyptian
desert, is lessened in value by being too fanciful or
by being burdened with some private interpreta-
tion as to alleged prophetic features.
Dr. Knight has done wide reading and study,
and brings to this somewhat complicated and
difficult subject, a faculty of clear thinking and
expression which stands him in good stead. Also,
he is careful to avoid the mistakes of those who
have tried to prove too much from the Pyramid.
In Part Two, he states the sane and conservative
“plan” by which he has been guided:
“It is not our purpose to force anything. W e
shall endeavor to avoid conclusions which are
manifestly illogical. W e shall not be dogmatic.
W e shall set no dates. All in the world we
propose to do is to subject the Great Pyramid to
geographical, mathematical, astronomical, his­
toric and prophetic tests, and see what it has to
say for itself. If, by this admittedly scientific
[9]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
method, we should arrive at conclusions which
some of our readers cannot accept, we beg to
assure them that we stand eagerly ready to
renounce our wrong conclusions the moment the
right ones shall be given us."
No one can reasonably take exception to such
an attitude.
The unreasonable approach to a subject like the
Pyramid is surely one of bias in either direction.
One should not accept all or even part of the
wonderful things which have been extravagantly
claimed for it, nor, on the other hand, should one
be unwilling to believe, strange as it may appear,
that here perhaps God, the Creator of the universe,
may have done a startling and unexpected thing, in
superintending the construction of an astonishing
pile of granite, which may possibly enshrine in its
exterior and its interior, many historical facts,
scientific discoveries, and prophetic warnings.
W hy should it be thought impossible or incon­
ceivable for God to do this? “In all things” He
must have “the preeminence.”
A potent objection on the part of many sincere
believers in the all-sufficient revelation of the
Biblical record, is that this study is going beyond
“that which is written.” But that again is simply
a matter of interpretation. Surely, it cannot be
[10]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
denied that there are many, at least apparent,
references to the Pyramid in Scripture.
W hat would appear to be such an one, of very
notable value, and a passage which otherwise has
no meaning, is the nineteenth chapter of Isaiah.
The Great Pyramid meets this particular test
admirably and unmistakably, and those who see in
the Gizeh structure, a fulfillment of this ancient
prophecy, are as loyal to the Bible as those
who differ.
The question is, Does the Pyramid satisfy the
rigid tests to which it is being and ought to be
subjected? An unbiased observer will be com'
pelled to admit that there is an astonishing array
of wonders in it absolutely refusing explanation,
unless God be assumed as the real Builder.
Then, why close our eyes to the facts in the case,
and say that the whole thing is too fanciful to be
true, as many are doing?
An unbeliever in the possibility of air travel,
witnessing for the first time an airplane winging its
way in full flight, might still deny and say, “I do
not believe it possible; it simply cannot be.” That
foolish attitude is no more absurd than the indif­
ference or antagonism of those who refuse to study
this startling wonder, or to be convinced of the
truth of the facts concerning it—facts which
[ n ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
cannot be denied and are substantiated by most
eminent scientists.
Certainly, here the unbeliever can find no
comfort or support for his infidelity and atheism.
This may not be “The Bible in Stone,” as it has
been called, but it does most powerfully sub­
stantiate the Word of God, wherever it speaks.
For that reason, if for no other, it deserves
recognition.
Dr. Knight has done a notable service in present­
ing this arresting theme in the forceful, magnetic
manner he exhibits, and we commend the book to
those thinking individuals, open-minded enough to
study, comprehend, and accept a “new thing,” if
it proves itself worthy, as the Pyramid appears to
do, in so far as we are able at the present juncture,
to determine.
A r t h u r I. B r o w n .
V V V
CHI
\
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
KEY TO CHART
BL— Beveled Base Line.
Pit—Unfinished. Symbolizes bottomless pit— no escape, but by
well up past Cross of Christ.
At—Atonement. Symbolized by the well which represents
Christ's descent from the Cross into Sheol and back to His
resurrection. Up this passage believers can escape, even
from the brink of hell.
G—Grotto. Symbolic of Paradise, or the place where Old Testa­
ment saints awaited the atonement.
2144— Probable date of erection.
F—Time of Flood, 630 years before the Exodus.
1647—The inch years between Exodus and the Birth of Christ.
This passage with its granite plug symbolizes law-way to
eternal life, which is blocked by our sinful natures.
J J H —The inch years of Christ's life.
R—-Marks the point where the stone cover of the well was burst
upward, symbolizing Christ's resurrection.
GA—Gospel Age, symbolized by the Grand Gallery, 28 feet high.
K—King’s Chamber.
J—Jewish or Queen’s Chamber; symbolizes present blindness and
future glory of the Jews.
?— Grand Chamber, thought to exist in upper pan of the Pyra­
mid, symbolic of heaven.
[
C h a p t e r I.
THE CONSTRUCTION
HE SUDDEN and widespread interest in
the Great Pyramid of Giseh is one of the
astonishing signs of our times. Scientists,
educators, ministers, business and pro-
fessional men, and an ever' increasing
multitude of thinking people in the less conspicuous
walks of life are eagerly inquiring for information
regarding this mysterious, age-defying monument
of antiquity. A few still regard it as the tomb of
Cheops, but the vast majority of Pyramid students
have been forced to the conclusion that it is a great
religio-scientific “Pillar of Witness,” which by
means of symbolism similar to that of the Taber-
nacle of Moses and the Zodiac, unveils the history
of the distant past, presents Christ as humanity's
only hope, throws light upon the prophecies, and
furnishes unanswerable arguments for the truth of
God’s Word.
It is the purpose of this little book to subject the
Pyramid to the severest geographical, mathemati-
[ 1 7 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
cal, astronomical, historic and prophetic tests, and
see whether or not it substantiates these claims.
Against the massive masonry of the Great Pyra­
mid the storms of forty centuries have hurled
themselves in vain. Empires have risen, flourished
and decayed. Reb'gious systems have come and
gone. Civilizations have developed and disap­
peared, but through more than four thousand
years of changing human history the Great Pyra­
mid has stood amid the shifting sands, pointing
with solemn majesty in silence up to God.
The labor of building it was enormous. Hero­
dotus informs us that 100,000 men were employed
without cessation for twenty years. It contains some
2,300,000 blocks of stone, each weighing on an
average two and a half tons. Much of the stone
was quarried on the opposite side of the Nile, and
ten years were required to build a causeway over
which to move it. A canal was dug from the river
to the foot of the plateau upon which the Pyramid
stands so that stones could be delivered direct to
the builders. Some of these stones were thirty feet
long, five feet high, and four feet wide. Is it any
wonder it took so long to cover thirteen acres of
bed-rock with more than two hundred courses of
huge blocks that reach from the basement sheet to
the crystal apex at the top? Can you visualize the
[ 181
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
busy scene—the inclined planes, the great cranes,
the swarming workmen, the endless supply of huge
blocks being hoisted or rolled or pried into place,
as slowly through the long, hot days and starlit,
moon-brightened and torch-illumined nights the
gigantic pile grew until it topped the trees, climbed
above the temples and soaring upward, dwarfed
the distant mountains, dominated the landscape
and compelled mankind to acknowledge it as one
of the seven wonders of the world?
Quoting Seiss, “The Great Pyramid presents to
every beholder the geometric emblem of the Divine
Trinity. Creation is the reflection of God Himself,
and the Pyramid as a symbol of the creation gives
impressive token of His mysterious Triunity.” As
Shaw has said, “Deity is typified by the outward
form of that pile, and that form is a triangle
whether viewed on either side or from either
comer. It likewise proclaims the architect of the
world to be the governor and upholder of the
world. The measures and motions of the planets
which this Pyramid symbolizes all show that the
universe does not hold God, but that He holds the
universe, and that continents and seas, suns and
systems pass with unfaltering steadiness from age
to age under His guiding hand.”
[ 19]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“The Great Pyramid is the largest edifice ever
erected in stone. It is nearly five hundred feet
high. It contains more than ninety million cubic
feet, or five million tons of granite and limestone—
enough to build a wall four feet high and one foot
thick from New York to San Francisco, and half
way back. It is built with such accuracy that ‘its
proportion of error is only one in fifteen thousand.’
It is seven hundred sixty-one and a half feet, or
more than two and a half average city blocks long
on each of its four sides. It is three-fifths of a mile
around. In it are stones weighing sixteen tons with
joint surfaces of thirty-five square feet, held to­
gether with a filmlike layer of cement no thicker
than a hair. Scientists are at a loss to understand
how the ancient workman made these fine cemented
joints.” (Stone Witness, Edgar, p. 2.)
The Great Pyramid as originally completed
was covered with casing stones of beautiful white
lime rock, which unlike the granite covering of the
second pyramid were not affected by extremes of
heat and cold and therefore did not disintegrate.
These casing stones were wrought with marvelous
accuracy. They do not vary from a straight line
and an accurate square more than one one-hun­
dredth of an inch in a length of over six feet, while
the face angles are cut to an accuracy of three-
[20]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
tenths of a second of angular measurement, a feat
quite beyond any present-day stone mason. This
accuracy was necessary in order that the pyramid,
starting from a base the size of which was of an
exact predetermined measure, should rise to an
exact vertical height, also predetermined—a fact
which implies that thousands of years ago men
possessed a knowledge of trigonometry and higher
mathematics such as is used in modern engineer­
ing construction problems, and that these exact
measurements and angles had to be adhered to
precisely by the workmen who chiseled every one
of these thousands of huge stones, which were
built down from the top, leaving the smooth
finished surface as the workmen descended. Had
it not been for the vandalism of the Arabs in
stripping off these casing stones to build the
mosques of Cairo, the Great Pyramid would have
stood today as it did four thousand years ago, its
white marble-like surface without visible joints
glistening like a diamond in the brilliance of the
Egyptian sunshine. No wonder the sacred books
of the Hindus call it ‘The Golden Mountain.’
Even as it stands it is grand and imposing beyond
all description—higher than the great cathedral of
Strassburg, higher than St. Paul’s in London, or
St. Peter’s in Rome, and as Seiss says, ‘so immense
[21 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
that no man standing upon its crumbling top is
strong enough to throw a stone out beyond its
base.” (The Bible in Stone, pp. 20-22.)
As one stands beholding its long shadow darken
the fields of Gizeh when the day declines, its over­
whelming vastness rushes upon the mind—one
feels oppressed and staggers beneath a load to think
that such a mountain was piled by the handiwork
of man. No words are adequate to describe it. One
must see it with his own eyes to appreciate the
sublime, overmastering majesty of this titanic
monument of age-defying stone.
V V V
[22]
C h a p t e r II.
THE HISTORY
It is generally agreed that the pyramids of the
Giz,eh group are all of the age of the fourth
dynasty; that is, older than 2000 B. C. There is
no known time within our historic periods when
this pyramid was not famous. Herodotus, the so-
called Father of History, as early as 45 B. C., made
a personal examination of it, and devoted some
most interesting paragraphs to it. Siculus, Strabo,
Pliny, Durius, Samium, Alexander, Apion, Diony­
sius, and many other ancient authors have written
about the Great Pyramid, but though it has been
standing in its place for four thousand years, it is
only within the last hundred years or less that
there has been any rational appreciation of it.
Probably Caliph El Mamoun was the first man to
enter the upper passages after those passages were
closed by the completion of the pyramid. This El
Mamoun, the son of Haroun A1 Raschid of the
“Arabian Nights," believed the Great Pyramid to
be crowded full of precious treasure. He therefore
decided to open it. This with the crude instru-
t 23 )
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
ments and poor knowledge which his hordes pos­
sessed proved no easy task, but Mohammedan
fanaticism and tyranny proved equal to the under­
taking. An excavation was driven in for a hundred
feet, with everything solid up to that point.
Having expended all this labor to no effect, the
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
effort was about to be abandoned when the sound
of a falling stone in some open space not far beyond
them was heard. This incited them to dig deeper,
and presently they broke through into the regular
passageway, just where the first ascending passage
forks off from the descending one. The stone
which had fallen was one which hung in the top
of the entrance passage, quite concealing the fact
of another and upward way. But this passage they
found stopped by a heavy stone block fitted into it
tight as a cork in the mouth of a bottle, so tight
that it remains there still, so they dug and blasted
around it. Then, as Professor Smyth describes it,
“up no less than 110 feet of the steep incline,
crouched hands and knees and chin together,
through a passage of royally polished limestone,
forty'seven inches high and forty-one inches broad
they had painfully to crawl, with their torches
burning low.” Thence they emerged into the
Grand Gallery, seven times as high as the passage
through which they came, empty, however, and
darker than night. Still the way was narrow and
steep, only six feet wide at any point and con'
tracted to three at the floor, though too high for
the power of their smoky lights to illuminate. Up
and up the smooth and long ascending floorline the
marauders pushed their slippery and doubtful way,
[ 2 5 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
till near the end of the Grand Gallery. Then they
clambered over a three'foot step, bowed their heads
beneath a low doorway, bounded on all sides with
great blocks of frowning red granite, and then
leaped without further hindrance into the grand
chamber, the first to enter it since the pyramid
was built.
A noble chamber did those maddened Moslems
also find it, clean and garnished, every surface of
polished red granite, and everything indicative of
master builders, but the coveted gold and treasures
were not there. Nothing was there but black and
solemn emptiness. There stood a solitary stone
chest, indeed, fashioned out of a single block,
polished within and without, and sonorous as a
bell, but opened lidless and empty as the space
around it. The Caliph was astonished. His quar-
riers muttered their anathemas over their deception
into such enormous unrequited and fruitless labors.
Nor could El Mamoun quiet the outbreaking
indignation toward him and his courtiers except by
one of those saintly frauds in which Moham'
medanism is so facile. He commanded those discon'
tents to go dig at the spot which he indicated,
where they soon came upon a sum of gold, exactly
equal to the wages claimed for their work, which
gold he had himself secretly deposited at the place.
[26]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
When it was found, he could not repress his
astonishment that those mighty kings before the
flood were so full of inspiration as to be able to
count so truly what it would cost in Arab labor
to break open their pyramid!
But the great, mysterious structure was now
open. Henceforward anyone with interest and
courage enough to attempt it, might enter, ex'
amine, study, and find out what he could.
For centuries the Arabians went in and out at
will, but apart from the mere fact of the forcible
entry by A1 Mamoun little is known about the
Pyramid. W e must therefore depend upon the
explorations and accounts of Europeans who have
visited, measured and photographed the pyramid
from time to time. One of the first and greatest of
these travelers was Sir John Mandeville, who spent
thirty-three years in wandering through the East,
visiting Egypt and the pyramids about A. D. 1350.
He left us a theory concerning them, but confessed
he was afraid to enter them because they were
reported to be full of serpents. Mr. John Greaves,
professor of astronomy in the University of Ox­
ford, visited the pyramid at his own expense in the
spring of 1637 and published his Pyramidographia
in 1646. He was soon followed by English,
French, Dutch, German and Italian explorers.
[27]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Special additions were made to the stock of pyra'
mid information by Nathaniel Davison, British
Consul at Algiers, 1763. When Napoleon was in
Egypt, 1799, the French savants who accompanied
him did important service in increasing the knowb
edge about the Great Pyramid. They surveyed the
ground, determined the value of the location in
trigonometrical relation, discovered the incisions
meant to serve as sockets for the original corner'
stones of the foundation, and wrote descriptions of
the Great Pyramid which were subsequently pub'
lished in large and elegant volumes. Colonel
Howard Vyse at his own expense spent seven
months exploring the Great Pyramid in 1837.
W ith him were one hundred or more assistants,
who not only reopened the ragged hole made by
A1 Mamoun, but uncovered the two corner sockets
of the north base, discovered and reopened the
ventilating tubes in the King’s Chamber, cut his
way through the masonry above this chamber and
found the four other openings beside the one which
had been discovered by Davison. He found in
these recesses various quarry marks in red paint,
proving that writing was known and practiced in
the Fourth Egyptian Dynasty. Among these marks
were the cartouches of the co'sovereign brothers
who reigned at the time the Great Pyramid was
[28]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
built. He also found some of the original casing
stones still in their original places, as well as
portions of a splendid pavement which once sur'
rounded the edifice. In addition, he fully confirmed
what had been ascertained before and brought the
Great Pyramid within the sphere of modern
scientific investigation. Through him Sir John
Herschel espoused the belief that the pyramid
possessed a truly astronomical character, and that
its narrow tubic entrance pointed to some pole star
from which the date of the building might be
determined. A t Vyse's suggestion, Sir John made
the necessary calculation and found the pointing
to indicate the same date on which other and inde'
pendent data had indicated to be the period of the
erection of the great structure. Taking what had
thus been discovered, John Taylor, one of the
publishers of the “London Magazine,” undertook
to solve the problem of the origin and purpose of
the Great Pyramid. In 1859 he published a small
book in which he gave it as his opinion that the
real builders of the pyramid were not Egyptians,
but men who by the special commission and aid of
the Creator superintended the erection of this
great edifice as a witness of inspiration over against
the doubt and corruption of a constantly degenerate
ing world. This book of Taylor’s fell into the hands
[29]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
of Professor C. Piazzi Smyth, who, after making a
thorough investigation, published (in 1864) his
splendid book, “Our Inheritance in the Great
Pyramid." In 1865 Professor Smyth and his wife
went to Egypt, where they lived in an old tomb
from January to April, spending the intervening
time in remeasuring and testing by the best scien-
tific appliances available what others had reported
about the Great Pyramid. The result of this self'
denying labor was given to the public in 1867 in
three brilliant volumes entitled, “Life and Work at
the Great Pyramid,” with a sequel the year follow'
ing on the “Antiquity of Intellectual Man.”
The result of all this study and investigation has
been the growing belief that the Great Pyramid
was erected under the special guidance of God;
that it is in fact a Bible in stone. A young Scotch-
man, Robert Menzies, was the first to point out
how perfectly the Grand Gallery symbolizes the
Spiritual life, the well shaft the atonement, and the
descending passage the path that leads down to the
darkness and destruction of perdition, which the
chaotic subterranean chamber so vividly suggests.
The scientific symbolism of the Great Pyramid is
just as startling as the religious.
Goodsir in his volume on ethnic inspiration has
well said, “The scientific symbolism of that world's
[SO]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
wonder now stands nearly disclosed to view, rest'
ing on its own independent basis of proof, which
is not only vouched for but defended by advocates
undeniably competent to their work, and as yet
occupying inexpungably their ground.”
Those who have attacked the religio'scientific
theory of the Great Pyramid by their failure to
establish a scientific basis for their objections have
in reality added their voices in testimony to the
truth of this theory. Every attack upon it has
ended in such signal failure that the critics have
rather served to confirm than to destroy.
Some have objected to the use of the Great
Pyramid as an argument for the truth of the
Scriptures because C . T. Russell was an ardent
believer in the pyramid prophecy. A moment's
consideration will convince anyone of the inade-
quacy of such an objection. Others object because
Jesus never mentioned the Great Pyramid. To this
W . Merton Snow in the March, 1928, “Messiah’s
Advocate" makes the following apt reply:
“Neither did Jesus mention Nebuchadnezzar's
image, but shall we throw it away with its message
because He did not? (And is it to be supposed that
Jesus told us all He knew?) Jesus did affirm, how'
ever, His belief in both Daniel and Isaiah by
quoting from them, and Isaiah it is who says, ‘In
[31]
that day there shall be an altar to the Lord, in the
midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the
border thereof to the Lord, and it shall be for a
sign and a witness unto the Lord of Hosts in the
land of Egypt.”—Isaiah 19: 19, 20.”
Still others attribute to “accident” the remark'
able agreement of pyramid measurements with
historical events. In answer to this, Mr. Snow
declares that the word “accident” should not be
used with respect to tying up the dates of history
with the passage measurements of the pyramid,
because there is either intelligent design to reveal
truth here, or intelligent purpose to perpetuate a
monstrous hoax upon mankind.
V V V
[32}
C h a p t e r III.
THE BUILDERS
The Great Pyramid is attributed to Cheops, and
the second to his brother Chephren, who succeeded
him. Herodotus tells us that, according to the
Egyptian priests, Cheops was “arrogant toward
the gods.” He closed the temples, interdicted the
customary worship, cast out the images to be
defiled on the highways, and compelled even the
priests to labor in the quarries. Moreover, Hero­
dotus tells us that on account of Cheops and his
brother’s opposition to the worship of idols, the
Egyptians so detest the memory of these two kings
that they do not much like even to mention their
names. Hence they commonly call the pyramids
after Philition, a shepherd who at that time fed his
flocks about the place. (“Great Pyramid,” Proc­
tor, p. 5.)
Manetho, an Egyptian priest and scribe, is
quoted by Josephus and others as saying, “W e had
formerly a king in whose time it came to pass, there
came up from the East in a strange manner men of
an ignoble race who had the confidence to invade
n n
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
our country and easily subdued it by their power
without a battle, and when they had our rulers in
their hands they demolished the temples of the
gods." (Cory’s Fragments, p. 257.)
Manetho further states that these “Arabians"
left Egypt in large numbers, but instead of going
to Arabia they went up to that country now called
Judea and there built a city and named it Jerusa'
lem. From this and certain passages in the Bible—
particularly the Book of Job—it is thought that
the shepherd to whose influence the Egyptians
attribute the Great Pyramid may have been Job.
Wilford in his “Asiatic Researches," volume
three, page 225, gives an extract from the Hindu
records, which seems to sustain this tradition. The
extract says that “One Tamo-vatsa, a child of
prayer, wise and devout, prayed for certain sue'
cesses, and that God granted his request, and that
he came to Egypt with a chosen company, entered
it without any declaration of war and began to
administer justice among the people to give them
a specimen of a good king.” This Tamo-vatsa is
represented as a king of the powerful people called
the Pali, shepherds.
“Job was an Arabian and a shepherd prince, just
as the Egyptian fragments testify respecting
Philitis. Job’s modest account of his own greatness,
[ »*]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
doings and successes depicted with so much beauty
in chapter 29 grandly harmonizes with Manetho’s
story of the strange power of the Arabians over
the Egyptian rulers, obtained 'without a battle.’
He held idolatry to be a crime punishable by the
authorities. (Chapter 31.-26-28.) He also looked
forward to the coming of the 'Redeemer' and
expressed his firm belief in physical resurrection.
(Job 19:23'27— 'Oh that my words were now
written! oh that they were printed in a book! That
they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the
rock forever! For I know that my redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the
earth: And though after my skin worms destroy
this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God: Whom
I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold,
and not another; though my reins be consumed
within me.)
“The design of Moses after he had completed
the narrative of the dispersion of the third and
fourth generations of the descendants of Noah and
thus outlined the ancestry of the chief nations to
the world undoubtedly was to continue the line of
Shem to that of Abraham only, because it was
through Abraham that the Messiah was to come.
But he makes one great exception to this rule when
he names the family of Joktan and terminates the
[ 3 5 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
list of his sons with Job-ab, who most Hebrew
authors, the Greek fathers, and various modern
writers identify as Job who lived in the land of
Uz.”— (Townsend’s Bible, Vol. 1, p. 131.)
According to Herodotus the Joktanites formed
the second great colony to settle in Arabia, the
Cushites being first, and Ishmaelites third. Baldwin
in his “Prehistoric Nations” says that “ages farther
back than our histories, Arabia was the seat of a
great and influential civilization. . . . It is apparent
that no other race did so much to develop and
spread civilization.” From these people came the
Phoenicians; and Rawlinson, Bunsen, and Watkins
maintain that the Phoenicians were Shemites and
hence of Joktanite lineage. Rawlinson also remarks
that these people possessed “a wonderful capacity
for affecting the spiritual conditions of our species
by projecting into the fermenting mass of human
thought new and strange ideas, especially those of
the most abstract kind. Shemitic races have in­
fluenced far more than any others the history of
the world’s mental processes, and the principal
intellectual revolutions which have taken place
are traceable in the main to them.”— (Hero­
dotus, p. 539.)
That the Phoenicians were Shemitic and not
Hamitic is proved by their language, which from
[ 36]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the inscriptions they have left is none other than
Hebrew. In this connection you will recollect that
Abraham found a people inhabiting Palestine when
he “came W est” with whom he was able to
converse without an interpreter, and with some of
whom (Melchisedec) (Genesis 14:18-20; Hebrews
6:2) he was in perfect accord religiously. It is
interesting also to learn that according to tradition
Abraham, during his sojourn in Egypt, spent much
time in instructing the Egyptian priests in the
divine science of the skies, i. e., the prophetic
messages limned in the starry radiance of the zodiac
against the azure curtains of the night.
Thus we learn that Job was the youngest of a
family in which was science, faith, and enterprise
for such a work as building the Great Pyramid
beyond that found in any other family upon the
then known earth.
The Book of Job is the most unique and inde­
pendent book in the sacred canon, the sublimest
section of the inspired records—a grand monument
of patriarchal life, manners and theology—evi­
dencing a knowledge of earth and sky, of provi­
dence and grace, and a command of thought,
sentiment, language, and literary power which no
mere man has ever equaled. In it we find a
familiarity with writing, engraving in stone, min-
t 37 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
ing, metallurgy, building, shipping, natural history,
astronomy, and science in general, showing an
advanced, organized and exalted state of society
answering exactly to what pertains above all to the
sons of Joktan, whose descendants spread them'
selves from upper Arabia to the South Sea, and
from the Persian Gulf to the Pillars of Hercules,
tracing their course as the first teachers of our
modern world with the greatest monuments that
antiquity contains.
No matter, then, whether Philitis, Melchisedec
(as some think) or Job were the real builders of the
Pyramid. This much is certain, that some unknown
but conspicuous stranger possessed of flocks and
herds lived about the locality of the Great Pyramid
during the years of its construction, and is so
related to the work that all Egypt for more than
seventeen hundred years considered him its real
originator and builder. Cheops merely furnished
the site, the workmen, and the materials. (“A
Miracle in Stone,” Seiss, pp. 197-210.)
So we learn that Jehovah had men of might even
in those far off days; men who believed in one God,
in holy angels, and in a devil whose subtle de­
pravity had innoculated all natural humanity.
They feared sin and sought forgiveness and salva­
tion through bloody sacrifice. They hoped for a
1 3 8 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
coming Redeemer and for resurrection through
him. They treasured the primeval records, tradh
tions and revelations from the beginning down,
including the monographs of Adam, Seth, Enoch,
Noah and Shem, from which Moses undoubtedly
compiled when he framed his Genesis. “Thus,”
says Seiss, “by a chain of traditions, facts and Bible
testimonies we connect the origin of the Great
Pyramid with a mighty prehistoric people, wholly
separated from Egypt and its abominations— a
people among whom inspiration as true and high
as that of Moses wrought, and from whom we have
not only the noblest of the sacred books but
likewise the noblest edifice on earth, equally
fraught with holy intelligence, divine truth and
inspired prophecy.”
My friends, these are exalted claims, couched in
eloquent language. But are they true?—that is the
question. Let us not be swept away by mere
words. Let us investigate and discover, if we may,
for what purpose this Great Pyramid was erected
millenniums ago.
V V V
[39]
■
C h a p t e r IV.
THE MYSTERY OF ITS PURPOSE
Was the Great Pyramid intended for a tomb or
a temple?—for astrological purposes, or as a
religio-scientific monument? Let us see. The theory
that the Great Pyramid was intended for a tomb
is wholly borrowed from the other pyramids,
which were used as tombs. In all the examinations
to which it has been subjected, whether in ancient
or modern times, and in all historical fragments
concerning it, there is nothing to bear out the idea
that it was intended as a royal sepulchre.
Davison says, “The Great Pyramid enshrines
an exposition of the secrets of the universe. This
exposition is presented in the precise terms, and by
the geometrical or graphical methods of modern
exact science. Egyptologists, however, declare that
the Great Pyramid is a tomb, and that, being a
tomb, it has no other purpose to serve. Evidence
not relating to the Tombic Theory finds no place
in their ‘showcase.’ The structural engineering
evidence disproves this contention by showing that
the beginning of the Ascending Passage leading to
[41]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the supposed sepulchral upper chambers was
tightly sealed before the Ascending Passages and
Upper Chambers were built. The structural engi'
neering evidence also proves that the Great Pyra­
mid was built on scientific principles and that it
had a scientific purpose to serve. The whole
problem of the Pyramid is therefore primarily an
engineering problem.”
Diodorus says positively that “Cheops was not
buried here, but in an obscure and unknown
place.” That secrecy in regard to burial was tradi­
tional in Cheops’ family would seem to be proved
by the following, which was published in the
newspapers late in 1926: “Buried under tons of
rock at the bottom of a ninety-foot shaft, Dr.
Reisner of Harvard finds the hidden sepulchre of
the beloved mother of the Egyptian monarch who
built the Great Pyramid. The old Egyptians, be­
lieving in the immortality of the soul, lavished all
their resources and skill in preparing a fitting
eternal home for their dead. Thus it is remarkable
to find the tomb of the illustrious Queen Hete-
petheres, so carefully concealed and marked by no
outward monument.”
For six hundred years after A1 Mamoun broke
into this pyramid the Arab writers who tell of the
feat say not a word of any human remains or
[42]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
indications of sepulchre being found. Shehab Ben
Yahiya, on the contrary, says that, “Nothing was
discovered as to the motive of its construction."
No less than a dozen of the best European authors
on the subject agree there is no proof that anybody
was ever entombed in it.
When we consider that the granite plug was
built into the mouth of the upper ascending
passage when the Pyramid was constructed, and
that A1 Mamoun was obliged to blast and chip
and hew his way around, that ought to make it
perfectly clear that no mummy was ever carried
up that way. This leaves only the well as a possible
passage through which a mummy might have been
taken to the King’s Chamber, and this would have
been a difficult if not impossible task, for the well
is only about twenty'six inches square and so
nearly perpendicular that the only way to ascend
it is by means of a rope let down from above.
Besides, there are two right angle turns at the
upper end, around which, even in their present
dilapidated condition, it would be practically
impossible to force an average sized mummy, and
it is inconceivable that Cheops should have been
hauled up and bent around these angles before
embalming. And if it be argued that the mummy
of Cheops might have been placed in the King's
[43]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Chamber before the remaining courses of masonry
were laid to complete the Pyramid, how shall we
account for the existence of the well, and what
shall we do with the statement that in his old age,
long after the completion of the pyramid, Cheops
reverted to the idolatry which he so nearly de­
stroyed during the earlier years of his long reign.
Moreover, the great coffer in the King’s Cham­
ber has channels for a lid, but A1 Mamoun found
no cover nor fragment of one when he entered the
pyramid in 820 A. D. Nor are there any markings
whatsoever—either on the coffer or in the chamber
as in other Egyptian tombs, which are covered
with hieroglyphics and decorative designs. It is
therefore safe to conclude that this gigantic mass
of masonry was never intended for burial purposes.
Furthermore, when we find in this edifice
throughout a great system of inter-related numbers,
measures, weights, angles, temperatures, degrees,
geometric problems, cosmic references, and general
geodesy which modern science has now read and
verified from it, reason and truth demand of the
teachers of mankind to cease writing that, “No
other object presented itself to the builder of
the Great Pyramid than the preparation of his
own tomb."
[44]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Unlike the other pyramids which were used as
tombs, the Great Pyramid's subterranean chambers
were never finished, and there seems no adequate
reason why the upward ascending passage leading
to the King's Chamber, where the advocates of
the tomb theory insist Cheops must have been
buried, should have been suddenly expanded into a
grand gallery seven times its height and then twice
again constricted to a passage less than four feet
high before the burial chamber is reached. And
when we enter it and find the coffer of the utmost
plebian plainness quite disproportioned for such a
purpose, devoid of all ornament, inscription, or
sepulchral insignia, is there not room for rational
doubt that it was ever meant or used for a burial
casket? And when we perceive in this coffer a
most accurately shaped standard of measures and
proportions, its sides and bottom cubically identical
with its internal space; the length of its two sides
to its height as a circle to its diameter; its exterior
volume just twice the dimensions of its bottom, and
its whole measure a definite proportion of the
chamber in which it was put when the edifice was
built—we may well wonder what all such urn
paralleled scientific elaborations have to do with
a mere tomb.
[ 4*3
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Nor was the pyramid intended as a place of
worship. Cheops who built it was, as we have seen,
at that time the enemy of idolatry. Therefore, he
did not build it as a temple to gods. There is not
in all the long avenues and exquisite chambers of
the Great Pyramid one single ancient inscription,
votive record, shred or sign of Egypt’s idolatry.
Therefore, we feel sure, it was not intended for
worship. (“A Miracle in Stone,” pp. 182T95.)
Proctor, the great opponent of the religio-
scientific theory of the Great Pyramid, believes
that the pyramids were intended as astronomical
observatories, from which the priests studied the
stars in their astrological relationship to the kings
who built them; that they were in fact “gigantic
horoscopes” for these kings, and therefore each
king must of necessity have his own pyramid.
Now, however true this may have been of the
other pyramids, there are serious objections with
regard to its application to the Great Pyramid, for
as Proctor himself says, “It does seem amazing
despite all we know of the fulness of faith reposed
by men of old times in the fanciful doctrines of
astrology, that any man, no matter how rich and
powerful, should devote many years of his life, a
large portion of his wealth, and the labor of many
[ 4 6 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
myriads of his subjects to so chimerical a purpose."
— (“The Great Pyramid,” p. 180.)
The theory of Lepsius that each king when he
came to the throne began to excavate a subter­
ranean chamber with an inclined passage, which
chamber was meant for his tomb; that he covered
this with blocks of stone in the form of a pyramid
and added to its size from year to year as long as
he lived, and that the size of a king’s pyramid is
indicative of the length of his reign, is upset by the
fact that some kings who lived long have small
pyramids, and in respect to the Great Pyramid by
the discovery that its angles and mathematical
proportions were contemplated and designed from
the start.
“This is proved by the existence of the drafts of
its architects which still exist graven in the rocks
on the surface of the hill before the eastern face
of the Great Pyramid. “Besides these trenches,”
says Seiss, “there is also a system of inclined
tunnels cut into the rock of the hill, which Pro­
fessor Smyth found arranged on the same prin­
ciples contained in the Great Pyramid and in it
only. Besides the descending passages there is an
ascending passage, a horizontal passage like the
Queen’s Chamber, and finally the commencement
of the upward rising of the grand gallery with its
[47]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
remarkable ramps on either side. The angles,
heights, and breadths of all these are almost exactly
the same as obtained in the Great Pyramid. They
are evidently the experimental models cut before-
hand into an unneeded part of the hill, giving the
plan to which the Great Pyramid was to be
wrought. Here then, in these trenches and tubes
we still find the plans and drawings to which these
ancient masons worked, both of the outside angles
and the inside arrangements. W e can not conceive
that these vast and still enduring charts giving the
features of the Great Pyramid in all its greatness
would thus have been cut if the whole work had
been conditioned to the uncertainty of the king’s
life. W e are thus driven to consider the last
possible reason for the construction of so vast and
costly an edifice, namely, the question of its signifi­
cance.” (“A Miracle in Stone.”)
V V V
[ 4 8 3
C h a p t e r V.
A SYMBOL OF SCIENCE
The question is, did God use some learned and
inspired person or persons to induce King Cheops
to forsake the idols of his country and build this
enormous and enduring pyramid in order that
there might be a witness upon earth whose testF
mony should substantiate God's Word and His
works—a witness against which the fiery darts of
doubt and criticism should have no more effect
than so much wind'driven chaff—a witness whose
testimony could not be impeached, which could
not be disregarded nor laughed out of court. My
friends, when even the enemies of this theory
cheerfully admit the marvelous astronomical and
scientific accuracy of the Great Pyramid (see
‘T he Great Pyramid,” Proctor, p. 8), when many
of the greatest archeological scientists living and
dead see no other adequate reason for the existence
of this pyramid; when men like Mr. Charles
Latimer, chief engineer, Cleveland, Ohio, while
addressing the Boston Society of Engineers and
speaking in opposition to the adoption of the
[49]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
French metric system, said, “This system came out
of the bottomless pit. A t that time and in the place
whence this system sprang it was hell on earth.
The people defied the God who made them. They
worshipped the goddess of reason. Can the chil­
dren of the Pilgrim Fathers consent to worship at
such a shrine? . . . No! W e must come back to
the perfection of old and sacred history and to that
religion which proves that our race is not the result
of a spontaneous natural development but that man
came from his Maker a living soul. But where
shall we go to find perfection? I answer, to the
Great Pyramid of Gizeh, for within that grand
primeval pillar of stone have been found the
standards of weights and measures to earth and
heaven commensurable, and so assimilated to our
own ancient and hereditary system that it does
seem as if the Almighty Himself had given us an
inheritance to be kept precisely for the emergency
of the present day and hour. . . . The inch is there,
the yard is there, our sabbath is there, Christ is
there; our past, our present, yea, perhaps our
future.” (“Stone Witness,” Edgar, p. 7.)
Mr. D. Davidson, structural engineer and
author of perhaps the largest and most compre­
hensive of the up-to-date scientific works on the
Great Pyramid, says: “When the Egyptians’ own
C»0]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
records are examined for traces of the Great Pyra'
mid’s scientific data, these are found in such
completely co-ordinated relationship that the whole
pyramid can be reconstructed from these data
alone. The resulting pyramid is of the same dimen'
sions, externally and internally, as are given by Sir
Petrie’s survey of the Great Pyramid.
“The ancient Egyptian records also proclaim the
purpose of Divine revelation delivered to the
scientists of long ago, regarding events which were
then in the distant future. The many scientifically
dated predictive indications of the ancient Egyp­
tian records derived from the Great Pyramid
builders are confirmed to the day, month and year
by the scientific revelation of the Great Pyramid
with regard to outstanding events which have
happened in the past, that are happening in current
times, and that are due to take place within the
next twenty-eight years.
“W e are certainly living in an age of intense
spiritual depression. For this reason, the message
of the Great Pyramid is specifically addressed to
this age, and, in the foreknowledge of God, has
been shaped to meet the requirements of this age.
It is a significant fact that it is only within com­
paratively recent times that we have possessed
sufficient technical knowledge to enable us to fully
[5H
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
understand and appreciate the deeply scientific
nature of the Great Pyramid. Its science and
symbolism establish and proclaim the Divinity of
our Lord Jesus Christ. (The ancient Egyptian
prophecies refer to the Messiah as “Lord of the
Pyramid,” “The Lord of the Year.” “The Lord of
Death and Resurrection.") It proves the actuality,
the purpose and the efficacy of His sacrifice for the
sins of the whole world, and the relief from the
burden of sin and perplexity to be found by the
acceptance of His gracious invitation: ‘Come unto
me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I
will give ye rest.”
In Isaiah 19:19, 20 we read: “There shall be an
altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt
and a pillar at the border thereof to the Lord, and
it shall be for a sign and a witness unto the Lord
of Egypt.” According to the author of the Com'
panion Bible, the fulfillment of this prophecy took
place in 1, B. C., and is recorded by Josephus (Ant.
13:3:1'3; 6; Wars 7:10:3; and Against Apion).
In consequence of wars between the Jews and
Syrians, Onias IV, the High Priest, fled to Alex'
andria; where, on account of his active sympathy
against Syria, he was welcomed by Ptolemy Philo'
metor, and rewarded by being made prince over
the Jews in Egypt, with the title of Ethnarch and
f « ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Alabarch. Josephus says: “Onias asked permission
from Ptolemy and Cleopatra to build a temple in
Egypt like that at Jerusalem, and to appoint for it
priests and Levites of his own nation. This he
devised, relying chiefly on the prophet Isaiah, who
six hundred years before, predicted that a temple
must be builded in Egypt by a Jew to the supreme
God. He therefore wrote to Ptolemy and Cleo-
patra the following: ‘Having come with the Jews
to Leontopolis of the Heliopolite district, and other
abodes of my nation, and finding that many had
sacred rites, not as was due, and were thus hostile
to each other, which has befallen the Egyptians
also through the vanity of their religions, and
disagreeing in their services, I found a most
convenient place in the fore^mentioned stronghold,
abounding with wood and sacred animals. I ask
leave, then, clearing away an idol temple, that has
fallen down, to build a temple to the supreme God,
that the Jews dwelling in Egypt, harmoniously
coming together, may minister to any benefit. For
Isaiah the prophet has predicted thus: ‘There shall
be an altar in Egypt to the Lord God,’ and he
prophesied many other such things concerning the
place.’ The King and Queen replied: “W e have
read thy request asking leave to clear away the
fallen temple in Leontopolis of the Heliopolite
[53]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
nome. W e are surprised that a temple should be
pleasing to God, settled in an impure place, and
one full of sacred animals. But since thou sayest
that Isaiah the prophet so long ago foretold it, we
grant thee leave, if, according to the law, we
may not seem to have offended against God’.”
(Ant. 13:6.)
The place of this temple was the identical spot
where, many centuries before, Israel had light in
their dwellings while the rest of Egypt was suffer'
ing from a plague of darkness. Here, again, was
light in darkness, which continued for more than
two hundred years (about 160 B. C. to A. D. 71),
when it was closed by Vespacian.
In view of the possibility of a double fulfillment
of this prophecy, W . Merton Snow has well asked,
“Is it a strained interpretation to cause this passage
to refer to modern times? And only a coincidence
that the Great Pyramid is in the right place to be
seen as the aforesaid ‘pillar’?” A recent article in
“The Sunday School Times” declared that the fuh
fillment of verse 23 of this prophetic chapter was
partially fulfilled during the World W ar and is
now finding its full fulfillment in our witnessing
that road which is being pushed toward its goal in
the old Assyrian territory. Is it coincidence that
while some scientists are writing that the Great
[54]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Pyramid is the ‘pillar’ mentioned in this chapter,
some religious writers are holding that other por­
tions of this chapter are finding fulfillment today?
Besides Scriptural references the ancient Egyptian
records also proclaimed the purpose of the Great
Pyramid, a “scientific exposition of the secrets of
the universe.” (“Bible in Stone,” Discipulus, in
Foreword by Professor Davidson.)
Massoudi, the Arab writer, says that “On the
eastern, or Great Pyramid as built by the ancients,
the heavenly spheres were inscribed. Likewise the
positions of the stars and their circles, together
with the history and chronicles of times past, of
that which is to come, and of every future event."
Josephus, the learned scribe, gives it as a his­
torical fact that Seth and his immediate descend­
ants were the big inventors of that peculiar sort of
wisdom which is concerned with the heavenly
bodies and their order, and that in order that their
inventions might not be lost before they were
sufficiently known—upon Adam’s prediction that
the world was to be destroyed by flood—made two
pillars, one of brick, the other of stone. They
inscribed their discoveries on them both, that in
case the pillar of brick should be destroyed by the
flood the pillar of stone might remain and exhibit
their discoveries to mankind. He also adds, “Now
[55]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
this pillar remains in the land of Siriad (Egypt) to
this day.” (“Jewish Antiquities,” pp. 1, 2.) Cer­
tain features of the Great Pyramid which will be
noted later would seem to indicate that Josephus
was mistaken in thinking that the pyramid was
erected before the flood; but there is every reason
to believe that it was built 630 years later.
The Pyramids certainly exist and they stand just
where tradition and the Scriptures locate them.
The Great Pyramid also proves itself possessed of
a marked scientific character which places it in a
class by itself, for none of the other pyramids
exhibit such accuracy of construction nor do any
of them possess any such system of passages and
chambers as are here exhibited. Much of the
science embodied in this great pillar must have
come over from beyond the flood, for six hundred
years is too short a time for man to have made all
the observations here recorded.
Those of you who are familiar with the Bible
will recollect that God gave Moses explicit direc­
tions for the construction of the Tabernacle (He­
brews 8:5): “Moses was admonished of God
when he was about to make the tabernacle: for,
See, saith he, that thou make all things according
to the pattern shewed to thee in the mount”; and
that “The Lord spoke unto Moses saying, See, I
[ « ]
The TsAystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
have called by name Bazaleel the son of Uri, the
son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, and I have filled
him with the spirit of God, in wisdom and in under-
standing, and in knowledge, and in all manner of
workmanship, to devise cunning works, to work in
gold, and silver, and in brass, and in cutting of
stone, to set them, and in carving of timber, to
work in all manner of workmanship. And I,
behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son of
Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the heart
of all that are wise hearted I have put wisdom, that
they may make all that I have commanded thee.”
(Exodus 31:1-6.) All this was necessary in order
that the Tabernacle might set forth with absolute
accuracy a symbolic picture of the promised
Messiah. It is only necessary to mention the
outstanding features of this remarkable structure
to show how perfectly it accomplishes this sub­
lime purpose.
The outside badger-skin covering of the Taber­
nacle symbolized a king in disguise—Deity hidden
in humanity. The second covering of rams’ skins
dyed red—a Saviour dying for a lost world. The
third covering of pure white goats’ hair—the
imputed righteousness and purity of those who
have been washed in the blood of the Lamb.
The inner covering of blue, scarlet, and purple—
[57]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the Deity, humanity and coming royal Kingship of
the Messiah.
The altar stood for the sacrifice of the Saviour,
the laver for cleansing, the golden candlestick for
the illuminating presence of the Holy Spirit, the
altar of incense for prayer, the showbread for
God’s provision for all our needs, the veil for the
humanity of Christ, and the ark for the very
presence of God, into which presence Jesus Christ,
the High Priest, has gone to offer His own blood
as the one supreme and sufficient sacrifice for sin
(read Hebrews 9:11-15).
The curtains of the court symbolized separation
from the world, the wide-open door of the court
the gracious invitation to enter and partake of the
water of life freely, while the arrangement of the
furniture in the form of a cross and the pillar of
cloud and fire completed the picture of God’s
protecting presence with all believers.
David also received the pattern of Solomon’s
temple by inspiration (I Chronicles 28:11, 12),
‘Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern
of the porch, and of the houses thereof, and of the
treasuries thereof, and of the upper chambers
thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of
the place of the mercy seat, and the pattern of all
that he had by the Spirit.”
[58]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“Now in just this same way Noah by means of
special revelation and the mechanical knowledge of
the day in which he lived was able to build a
wooden ship larger than the Great Eastern; a ship
in which he outrode the flood and brought over
to us on this side what man had learned, and all
that God had revealed to man before the deluge.
Noah was a faithful Sethite and would be especially
anxious to inculcate and perpetuate that order and
faithfulness which had saved him and his house
when all the rest of mankind perished. The faithful
among his descendants would naturally share in the
same desires, particularly when they saw mankind
again relapsing into apostasy. Out of devotion to
the truth of God nothing could be more natural for
them than over against the impious Babel Tower
to wish for some permanent memorial to God and
the secret wisdom and teaching which they had
from Him. Acting thus under the holiest of
impulses, especially aided in it by the divine
inspiration, as Noah had been in the building of
the ark, just such a modest and mighty science-
laden pillar as the Great Pyramid might be antici­
pated as a result, and the essential import of
these strange traditions thus be realized. ( “A
Miracle in Stone,” p. 177.)
[59]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
W e are now to examine the Great Pyramid and
see for ourselves how wonderfully it corrobo'
rates the Bible, disproves Atheism, Evolution and
Modernism, throws light upon the day in which
we live, and foretells the future. It is not our
purpose to force anything. W e shall endeavor to
avoid conclusions which are manifestly illogical.
W e shall not be dogmatic. W e shall set no dates.
All in the world we propose to do is to subject the
Great Pyramid to geographical, mathematical,
astronomical, historic and prophetic tests and see
what it has to say for itself. If by this admittedly
scientific method we should arrive at conclusions
which some of our readers cannot accept, we beg
to assure them that we stand eagerly ready to
renounce our wrong conclusions the moment they
shall give us the right ones. But they should
remember that before undertaking this work we
have read all that the half dozen best encyclopedias
have to say about the Great Pyramid. W e have
searched through many volumes on Egypt, and
carefully read the best and strongest arguments
against as well as in favor of the interpretation
herein set forth. W e are in search of truth and it
is our honest intention to be fair.
[ 6 0 ]
C h a p t e r VI.
GEOGRAPHICAL SIGNIFICANCE
The geographical position of the Great Pyramid
is one of its most significant features. It stands as
Isaiah tells us in the midst of Egypt at the apex of
the delta or fan-shaped land of lower Egypt, and
also at the border thereof, because it marks the
point where the cultivated land ends and the desert
begins. According to Seiss, “It stands on the
pivotal balance point of the entire land distributed
over the face of the whole earth. A glance at any
universal map makes this apparent, while we look
in vain for another point on all the globe which so
naturally and easily marks the center of equation
for all inhabited land surface. There is here a
measurement or consciousness of the extent and
proportional relation and distribution of the earth’s
continents and islands such as modern science has
not yet furnished or even attempted to give.”
All nations who speak the English language
compute their longitude from Greenwich, the
Spanish from Cadiz, the French from Paris, and
[61 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the Russians from Cronstadt. And other nations
have their own method of reckoning. This creates
endless confusion. Maury said all nations ought to
agree on a common nether meridian. He insisted
that such a meridian would be found about that
degree west of Greenwich which is the exact
nether meridian of the Great Pyramid. He thus
clearly designated the meridian of the Great Pyra-
mid as the proper initiatory meridian for the whole
world. This was a conclusion reached without any
thought of its relation to the Great Pyramid, but it
serves as another instance in which the best results
of science only bring us back to what was immor'
tally embodied in this wonderful four thousand'
yeanold monument.
Surely we have here a strong proof of inspira’
tion, since the builders of this pyramid could have
no other possible means of knowing the location of
the center of the land surface of the globe. That
this could not have been a mere coincidence is
evident because they not only located the pyramid
in the center of the land area, but within a little
more than a fourth of a hundred parts of a second
off the thirtieth degree of latitude which marks the
half way of the world’s surface between the
equator and the poles. Furthermore, it is evident
from the nature of the land that they did not build
[62]
r-----------
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
their pyramid this much off the true line through
ignorance of the exact location of the thirtieth
degree, but in order to secure a rock foundation
for a building they intended should last to the
end of time.
“Another thing which seems to bear out the
theory that these ancient builders either received
their knowledge of the earth’s surface by inspira­
tion or early revelation, brought across the flood
by Noah, is the fact that the top of the rock on
which the pyramid stands has been beveled to agree
with the curvature of the earth on the thirtieth
degree of latitude (about eight inches per mile) in
order to increase its stability, to which fact is due
its being so little affected by earthquakes, having
stood all these centuries practically without flaw
or crack except such as have been produced by
settlement due to its enormous weight.” (“Bible
in Stone,” pp. 22-23.)
“Even more wonderful is the Great Pyramid’s
angular connection with Bethlehem, the city of
David, where the man Jesus Christ was born. The
actual distance between the pyramid and Bethle­
hem agrees by a recognized proportion with the
period between the erecting date of the pyramid
and the date of Jesus’ birth, 2138 years; and by
another connected proportion it also agrees with
[63]
f
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the 1915 years between Jesus Christ’s birth and
the great World W ar, 1914-1918 A. D.” (“Stone
Witness,” p. 1.) “Moreover, if a projectile could
be fired in a straight line from the north side of the
pyramid at the precise angle eastward to that of
the entrance passage computed with the base line,
it would strike the Holy City.”
In 1759 M. Collet suggested the even ten-
millionth of the earth's axis as a universal standard
of measure. According to best science, the earth’s
axis is about 500,500,000 inches long. (The Pyra-
mid inch is 1-1000 shorter than our Anglo-Saxon
inch, making the polar diameter just 500,000,000
Pyramid inches.) Taking the even five hundred
millionth part of this, we would have 1001 of our
inches, and a fraction less than twenty-five of these
inches gives us the sacred cubit which God Himself
gave to His people of old. (Genesis 6:15; Exodus
30:1, 2, etc.) These sublime earth commensurat-
ing standards of length, the inch and the cubit, are
precisely the ones set forth in the Great Pyramid,
which would seem to prove that the builders had
a knowledge of the exact polar diameter of the
earth, and this should prove beyond all question
either original revelation or special inspiration.
“The earth’s weight was also evidently known
to these ancient architects, for as nearly as can be
[64]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
computed their pyramid is the even one thousand
billionth of this whole earth, while the gravity of
the whole mass of what they built needs only to be
multiplied by 10:5x3 to indicate the sum of the
gravity of the entire mass of the globe we inhabit.
“The earth’s mean density is also certainly indh
cated by the pyramid. Five and sevemtenths cubit
pyramid inches of pure water at the mean tempera'
ture of 68 degrees F., and thirty inches of baro'
metric pressure is equal in weight to one cubit
pyramid inch of the earth’s density material.
“The earth’s cubical bulk as distinct from its
weight and the cubical bulk of the Great Pyramid
are cubically related; and the earth’s surface area
is symmetrically agreeable to the dimensions of the
pyramid.” (“Stone Witness,” p. 3.)
“The mean temperature of the habitable land
and navigable sea is about 68 degrees F., and this
is the temperature which is maintained without
variations by means of ventilating tubes in the
granite chamber deep within the masonry of the
Great Pyramid. This temperature is exactly one'
fifth of the distance which mercury rises in the tube
between the freezing and boiling points of u'ater.
Dividing this one-fifth by the standard of fifty (the
room in which the index of temperature is arranged
being the chamber of fifty) we have the even 250
[65]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
for the degrees between the two notable points of
nature marked by the freezing and boiling of com'
mon water. Multiplying this by four, say the
pyramid’s four sides, we are brought to another
great natural heat mark, namely, that at which
heat begins to give forth light, and iron becomes
red. Then multiply again by five, say the number
of the pyramid’s five corners, and the result comes
out evenly at another grand nature-marked point
of thermal measure, namely, that at which heat
shows whiteness, and platinum, the densest and
most refractory of metals, melts.” (“A Miracle in
Stone,” p. 71.) So again, my friends, we are
driven to insist that such a succession of scien-
tifically harmonious feaures can not be accidental,
and if not accidental, then intentional, and if inten­
tional, they prove, it seems to us, the necessity of
revelation or inspiration to account for them, and
this of course amounts to a refutation of the con­
tentions of the Evolutionists and Modernists; be­
cause if God can give men wisdom to construct the
greatest of all buildings it is certainly reasonable
to suppose that he could also give men wisdom to
write the greatest of all books, and if God was back
of both the pyramid and the Bible, then the
assertions of the Evolutionists and Modernists that
the Bible is neither inspired nor scientifically
[66]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
correct are not true. But we will not press the
matter at this point, because as we pursue our
study the evidence will continue to pile up until,
like the Pyramid itself, it dominates the situation
and establishes the truth, and wisdom, and power
of God and the divine inspiration and accuracy
of His Word.
V V V
167]
C h a p t e r VII.
THE M ATHEM ATICAL SYMBOLISM
The peculiar figure and shape of the Great Pyra-
mid fixes a certain series of numbers.
“It has five corners: four equal comers at the
base and one unique corner at the summit, hence
it has five sides, four equal triangular sides and a
square under side, on which it stands. Here is an
emphatic count of fives, doubled into the com
venient decimal. This count is so inherent and
marked as to be a strong characteristic calling for
the number five and multiple, powers, and geo'
metrical proportions of it as loudly as stones can
be made to speak. This intense fiveness could not
have been accidental, and likewise corresponds
with the arrangements of God, both in nature and
revelation. Note the fiveness of termination to
each limb of the human body, the five senses, the
five books of Moses, the twice five precepts of the
Decalogue; but this is not all, for as we have
already noted, the diameter of the earth at the poles
is five hundred millions of units each the length of
one Pyramid inch; five times five of these units or
[69]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
inches is the twice ten millionth part of the earth’s
axis of rotation. Ten times ten of these units or
inches counted for a day, when divided in the
united length of the Great Pyramid’s four sides,
gives the exact number of days in a true year.
“As near as science has been able to determine
the mean density of the earth, five cubic inches of
earth weighs just fifty times a fiftieth part of the
contents of the coffer measured in water at a
temperature of' one-fifth of the distance which
mercury rises from the freezing to the boiling point.
“This system of fiveness runs through the Great
Pyramid and its major references. Counting five
times five courses of the masonry from the base
upward we are brought to the floor of the Queen’s
Chamber. The measures of that chamber all
answer to the standard of five times five inches. It
is a remarkable fact that ‘pyr’ in Coptic (which is
much like ancient Egyptian) means division, and
‘met’ means ten. Thus we have pyr-met, which in
ancient Egyptian means the division of ten, and so
the word pyr-a-mid, a corruption of pyr-met, has
evidently come down to us direct from the builders
of this great edifice.
“In one of the walls of the Queen’s Chambers
there is a deep sunken niche which is three times
five feet high, consisting of five strongly marked
[70]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
stones, the topmost five times five inches (or the
sacred cubit) across, and its inner edge just exactly
one cubit, or twenty-five pyramid inches from the
perpendicular center of the wall into which it is
cut. It is significant also that these builders
sculptured in bas-relief on the northern face of the
granite leaf in the ante-chamber (see chart) a boss
exactly one inch in thickness, the inch being one-
fifth of the pyramid’s dominating number, five.
“Leaving the Queen’s Chamber and counting
five times five courses higher we are brought to the
floor of the King’s Chamber, the walls of which are
composed of twenty times five stones arranged in
horizontal courses. Above the King’s Chamber are
five chambers of construction (to support the great
weight of the masonry above), while the coffer in
the King’s Chamber has five external sides and its
whole measure is just the fiftieth part of the size of
the chamber in which it stands. Its internal space
is just four times the measure of an English
‘quarter of wheat.’ By its contents measure it also
confirms Sir Isaac Newton’s determination of the
length of the sacred cubit of twenty-five earth
commensurated inches.
“The Holy Ark of the Tabernacle and the
Temple, according to the Scriptures, was 2V2
cubits long, and 1)/2 cubits broad and high,
[71]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
which, making all reasonable allowance for the
carpentry of the Ark, would give 71,248 cubic
inches, which is within two inches of the best
computation of the internal dimensions of the
pyramid coffer. That they should be thus alike
in internal measure, the dimensions of one
having been especially laid down by God
Himself, is very remarkable, and that the two
should thus mutually sustain each other in the
recognition of one and the same earth commensu'
rated cubit is both striking and significant. Nay,
using this same earth commensurated cubit as
identical with the sacred cubit, the further result
appears that the Jewish laver and the Ark of the
Tabernacle were the same in capacity measure
with the pyramid’s coffer, and that Solomon’s
‘molten sea’ was just fifty times the capacity of
either of these and exactly equal in interior cubic
space with the King’s Chamber itself.
“Nine is another number very especially marked
in the Great Pyramid, particularly in its sunward
portions and tendency. Its practical shaping is nine
to ten, for every ten feet that its corners retreat
diagonally inward in the process of building, they
rise upward, or sunward, nine feet. A t high noon
the sun shines on all of its corners and four of its
sides, counting nine of its most characteristic parts.
[72]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The Grand Gallery is roofed with four times nine
stones, and the main chamber with exactly nine.
And nine in Scripture represents Judgment."—
(“A Miracle in Stone,” pp. 46-70.)
The mathematical ratio denoted by the Greek
letter Pi, generally expressed by the figure 3.14159,
is monumentalized in the structure of the Great
Pyramid, for its height stands in the same propor­
tion to the sum of its four base sides as the radius
of a circle stands to its circumference. In other
words, the length of its four sides is the exact equal
of a circle drawn with the pyramid’s vertical height
for a radius. Thus it comes as near squaring the
circle as is humanly possible, and this is true of
none of the other measured pyramids of Egypt, for
none of them show even approximately this par­
ticular proportion of height to base. (“Bible in
Stone,” p. 34.) Surely this fact proves that the
builders of the Great Pyramid knew the value
of “pi” far more accurately than did other an­
cient mathematicians.
Discipulus points out another interesting fact in
connection with the mathematics of the Great
Pyramid, i. e., “the discovery that starting at the
junction of the ascending and descending passages
and measuring upward to the foot of the great step
at the top of the Grand Gallery, or downward to
[73]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the entrance of the subterranean chamber, using
alternately the Hebrew cubit and the English yard,
the result is in exact whole numbers—to the end
of the Grand Gallery exactly 55 of each measure,
to the subterranean chamber 56 of each, and if
continued to the entrance of the King's Chamber
we get 61 yards, 61 cubits, and 61 is the sum of
the addition of the 36 inches in a yard and the 25
inches in a cubit, so the whole thing works out
with mathematical precision.”
“A Pyramid pound-weight of water is equal to a
Pyramid pint-measure. A pint, therefore, accord­
ing to this Pyramid system of measure, is equal to
28.5 cubic Pyramid inches of pure water. This
value for the Pyramid pint, Professor Smyth
shows, is very close to the value of the ancient
Anglo-Saxon pint and pound, just as the ancient
inch-unit of linear measure is practically identical
with the Pyramid inch. It is because of this near
approach of the early measures of the Anglo-Saxon
people to the Pyramid measures, that Professor
Smyth and many other students are persuaded that
English-speaking nations of the present day have
inherited the true earth-commensurable weights
and measures first divinely communicated to the
Hebrew nation.” (“The Great Pyramid,” Ed­
gar, p. 107.)
[74]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
When in addition to these startling figures we
discover, as Seiss has pointed out, that “the degrees
in a circle if arranged on the pyramid number of
say 1000 degrees instead of the fractional Babyky
nian 360, would divide the quadrant into the con'
venient 250, with even tenths for minutes and
seconds, while it would at the same time harmoni'
ously commensurate with navigation and measures
of knots and miles, into which it is now so trouble'
some to translate from the indications of the
sextant. There would seem to be nothing wanting
in this hoary monument of antiquity for the forma'
tion of a metrical system, the most universal in
its scope, the most scientifically founded in its
standards, the most happily interrelated, and the
most simple and easy in its common use that was
ever presented to man.”
And this, my friends, is the answer of the
Almighty to the godless infidels who during the
mad days of the French Revolution invented their
scientifically inaccurate “metric system" and tried
to foist it upon an unwilling world, and it furnishes
one more proof that God was back of the pyramid,
just as He is back of the earth upon which it
stands, and back of the Bible which calls it Plis
“altar and pillar in the land of Egypt.”
[75]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“If we take the length of the King’s Chamber of
412.132 inches and let it express the diameter of a
circle and then compute the area of that circle and
throw that area into a square, it will give the exact
size of the pyramid’s base, and just as many pyra'
mid cubits on each side as there are days in a year.
“Again take the same length as the side of a
square, find its area, throw it into a circular shape,
and the radius of that circle will give the number
of cubits in the pyramid’s vertical height.
“Again take the circuit of the north or south
wall of the King’s Chamber’s length, and divide it
by that chamber’s length, and the result is Pi.
“Thus by substituting areas for circumferences
and this chamber to the operations of pi, we find it
answers intellectually to the square base and five
pointed exterior memorialization of the same pro'
portion. And in the antechamber between the
Grand Gallery and the King’s Chamber, the same
use and reference to the Pi proportion is to be
traced. Thus the east wainscoting of the ante'
chamber is cut down to the extent of half the
width of the King’s Chamber, equal to the length
of the granite in the antechamber floor, and to the
length of the side of a square whose area is equal
to that of a circle drawn with the whole length
(granite and limestone) of the floor for a radius.
[76]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“The thirty'Sixth horizontal course of stone in
the Great Pyramid is remarkable for being nearly
double in the thickness of the courses immediately
below it. The base of that particular course is just
ten times the height of the antechamber, and the
distance from the vertical center of the edifice to
the nearest point on either side at that height,
divided by ten, gives the number of days in a year,
and the same divided by the vertical height of the
point is (pi), or the proportion of the diameter of
a circle to its circumference." The discoverers and
demonstrators of these facts are Simpson, Day,
Tracy, Tyler, Smyth, etc., and many of these facts
are given in Johnson’s New Universal Encyclo'
pedia, article “Pyramid," and the last edition of
“Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid,” by
Professor Smyth.
Whitman has pointed out that “number as
expressed in order of nature is a marvelous display
of infinite precision and purpose. Not only are the
times and seasons fixed with unerring regularity,
but the great and distant luminaries of the heavens
revolve in their orbits of space with the greatest
accuracy. Whatever knowledge of the heavens has
come down to us through the zodiac and the
ancient mysteries, has come because of the exact
numbering and timing of the stars—-the order and
[77]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
system which the Creator meted out to them
is the foundation of both ancient astrology and
modern astronomy.”
The numerical proportions employed by nature
in all her chemical combinations are no less
wonderful and accurate. “The electrons compris­
ing gases or solids are more delicately counted out
than if they had been weighed in the most sensitive
balance, and every compound substance is only a
combination of medical nicety.” As a common­
place illustration, water always contains eight parts
by weight of oxygen to one of hydrogen. This is
called the law of constant proportion. It prevails
throughout all the combinations of the sixty or
seventy so-called elementary bodies; not only this,
but when one and the same body combines with
another body in several proportions, the higher
numbers are always multiples of the first or lowest.
For instance, oxygen unites with nitrogen in five
compounds; as nitrous oxide, as nitric acid, as
nitrous acid, as hypo-nitric acid, and lastly as the
powerful nitric acid. In these five compounds the
nitrogen is always represented by fourteen, but the
oxygen is always eight or a multiple of eight. The
relation of numbers in chemistry is so universally
known that further illustrations are unnecessary.
[78]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
In the organic world also the association of parts
according to number is the principle involved in
development. Every vegetable substance is built
up by a subtle chemistry of nature which no
human chemist can rival.
It has been pointed out by Dr. McCosh in his
“Typical Forms and Special Ends in Creation”
that, “In acrogenous plants, two is the prevailing
number, 2, 4, 8, 16, etc., being the number of teeth
in the mouths of the capsules of mosses. Three and
the multiple of three is the typical number of the
next class, endogenous, and five with its multiples
is the prevailing number in the highest class,
the exogenous.
“A curious series 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, in
which any two numbers added together gives the
succeeding one, regulates the arrangement of the
leaf appendages of plants generally, and par'
ticularly that of the leaves and scales on the cones
of firs and pines.”
In the animal world periodicity is a matter of
common observation; it may be noticed in the life
of every creature from its first inception to its
death. Number particularly governs the life of
humanity both as to days, months, and years. As
in life and health, so in disease nature employs
numbers to designate her movement and her period.
[79]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The various periods of gestation are commonly a
multiple of seven, either of days or weeks. W ith
some insects like the wasp, bee, etc., the ova are
hatched in seven half days. W ith others, it is seven
whole days. The majority of insects require from
fourteen (2x7) to 42 (6x7) days. The same
applies to the larvae state. W ith animals, the time
of the mouse is 21 days, 3x7; hare and rat 28 days,
4x7; cat 76 days, or 8x7; dog 63 days, or 9x7, etc.
The incubation of the common hen is 21 days, 3x7;
duck 28 days, 4x7. W ith the human species it is
280 days, or 40x7.
V V V
[80]
C h a p t e r VIII.
THE LAW OF CYCLES
In fact, man appears to be built upon what may
be called the seven day principle (six days of work
followed by one day of rest). And man’s whole life
is divided in cycles of seven hours, days, months
and years. (See, Self Mastery and Fate with
the Cycles of Life,” by H. Spencer Lewis.) * When
we see that design and number prevail everywhere
about us, how easily we may accept the words of
Christ, who said, “Even the hairs of your head are
numbered.” And of Isaiah, who declared that
“God had measured the waters in the hollow of
His hand, and meted out heaven with a span, and
comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure,
and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills
in a balance."— (Isaiah 40:12.)
Science has demonstrated how minutely the eye,
the ear, and the nerves of smelling, tasting and
feeling have been adjusted to the vibrations or
pulsations of light, sound and all substances with
which they come in contact. There are seven
•This book is described in the rear of this volume.
[81]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
primary colors, and all colors and shades of color
are produced by combining these. There are seven
tones in music, and all harmony is produced by
combining them.
All the rays of light with their separate distinct
number of vibrations are received by the eye and
blended into all the glorious pictures of creation.
The ear catches the tones of a beautiful symphony
and performs the mathematical feat of interpreting
them with a speed beyond the power of the mind
to comprehend.
“If the five senses of human nature are thus
found to rest upon the expression of numbers for
their very being, how natural and altogether prob'
able it is that every expression of life is manifested
in the same manner though they may not be
perfectly recognized by us. And again, if the great
book of nature presents to us such perfect order
and system and such mathematical exactness,
should we not expect to find an equal order, system
and exactness in that other book, the Bible, and
in the Great Pyramid, if it, like nature and the
Word of God, is a product of Divine wisdom
transmitted by inspiration to man?” (“Whitman’s
Notes,” p. 3.)
For ages observing men have recognized the
prevalence of numbers both in nature and the
[82]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Bible, but only in comparatively recent times has
any one given anything like the same amount of
time and thought to the order and classification of
the Bible that has been applied in the different
fields of nature study.
Deductions drawn from numerous classifications
and a few simple hints which have been passed
down to us from time immemorial have enabled
students of the W ord to discover the significance
of the use of numbers up to twelve. For instance,
One signifies unity or independence; Two, division,
substitution, help or testing; Three, divine per­
fection or constitutional completion; Four, execu­
tive completion or the world number; Five signifies
grace (readers will recollect our pointing out the
wonderful “fiveness” of the Great Pyramid); Six
signifies evil, work, or men; Seven, spiritual perfec­
tion; Eight, a new beginning; Nine (a number
which figures conspicuously in the Great Pyramid)
signifies judgment; Ten represents the limit of
creative responsibility, or the perfection of divine
order; Eleven, disintegration; and Twelve, govern­
mental perfection. Throughout the whole Bible
divisions and subdivisions of one particular number
are employed. That number is 2520, which
curiously enough is just one-half of the magic
C83 3
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
number of Plato, which he used as a basis of his
republic. (“Whitman’s Notes,” pp. 4-5.)
It also marks the number of years between the
beginning of the “cleansing judgment” of Jerusa­
lem (II Kings 24:1-4) and the surrender of the
city to General Allenby, December, 1917. It is a
scientific number based upon the revolution of the
earth upon its axis. “The evening and the morn­
ing” of Genesis 1:5 set this law in motion for the
earth, and Genesis 2:2, 3 marks its establishment;
and herein lies the key to it. One revolution of the
earth upon its axis is the simplest of our time
cycles. The three hundred and sixty degrees
describing it gives us the basic unit of our very
simple week of time. Three hundred and sixty
equal divisions of time multiplied by seven, give us
2520, which is this particular number. (“De­
liverance of Jerusalem," Robertson, p. 20.) Now
notice how Jehovah is always represented by the
number one, the great I Am. One represents the
Creator, but never the creature. Nowhere does He
choose among His creatures a man who is first born
to occupy a place of special importance. The first
born is always set aside for another. For instance,
Jacob supplanted Esau, and Joseph’s second son
received the blessing of the first. W e have the first
Adam set aside for Christ, the second Adam.
[84]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The first kingdom established by the Jews con-
tinued for a thousand years, but this kingdom was
not God’s choice—it was merely a type of the one
which is to come—the one for which we pray
when we use the words, “Thy kingdom come, thy
will be done on earth as it is in heaven.”
Four is used in pointing to Christ in His king'
ship. He is the lion of the tribe of Judah, who was
the fourth son of Jacob. Four is the executive
number. It gives us the four phases of His life.
There are just four places in the Bible where he is
called a Branch, and in these He is called: Branch,
the King Jeremiah 23:5, 6); Branch, the Servant
(Zechariah 3:8); Branch, the Man (Zechariah
6:12); and Branch, Jehovah (Isaiah 4:2). So also
there are four gospels. Matthew portrays Jesus as
King, Mark as Servant, Luke as Man, and John as
God Incarnate among us. The four divisions of the
Zodiac are marked by the lion, king of beast; the
ox, patient servant of man; man, the noblest work
of creation; and the eagle, symbol of our risen
Lord. And these were the symbols or standards
that floated above the four divisions of the camp
of Israel in the wilderness. The standard of Judah
was a lion, that of Ephraim an ox, that of Reuben
a man, and that of Dan an eagle.
[an
The Mystery and Prophecy oj the Great Pyramid
Six expresses some phase of evil wherever it is
used throughout the whole Bible. The Antichrist’s
number is 666 (Revelation 13:18). Thirteen
represents rebellion. It is six in the second octave.
Eight is the highest number applied to Christ. It
represents Him as Saviour and Redeemer—making
a new beginning. All types where eight is employed
foretell Christ. For illustration, David was the
eighth son of Jesse, and of him Jehovah said, “I
have found him a man after mine own heart.’
(Acts 13:22.) The letters in the name “Jesus”
according to the Greek alphabet represent 888.
These few illustrations pointing out as they do the
universal use of numbers in the general story and
construction of the Bible, together with those
employed by nature in her expressions of life, must,
it would seem, lead any investigator to conclude
that either nature and the Bible must have a
common origin, or that men three thousand years
ago had a far more intimate knowledge of life and
its relations than we have today. And either
conclusion counts heavily against Atheism, Evolu-
tion, and Modernism.
When we consider that nature without God
could neither count, weigh, measure, or paint, and
that the numerics of the Bible are far too complF
cated to be humanly possible, and that the mathe-
[86]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
matics of the Great Pyramid are perfect, there is
only one conclusion possible, and that is that God
was the real source from which nature, the Bible
and the Great Pyramid originally came; and this
of course proves inspiration, and inspiration is
something that does not mix well with either
evolution, modernism, or infidelity.
V V V
[87]
C h a p t e r IX.
THE ASTROLOGICAL SYMBOLISM
Cassina commences his history of astronomy by
saying, “It is impossible to doubt that astronomy
was invented from the beginning of the world;
history, profane as well as sacred, testifies to this
truth.” Bailly and others assert that astronomy
must have been established when the summer
solstice was in the first degree of Virgo, and that
the solar and lunar zodiacs were of a similar
antiquity, which would be about four thousand
years before the Christian era. They suppose the
originators to have lived in about the fortieth
degree of north latitude and to have been a highly
civilized people. Sir William Drummond says,
“The fact is certain that at some remote period
there were mathematicians and astronomers who
knew that the sun is the center of our system and
that the earth itself, a planet, revolves around it.”
The constellations were certainly known in the
time of Job, and are familiarly referred to in that
most ancient book. Sayffarth says, “They are as
old as the human race.” The author of Mazzaroth
[89]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
makes the origin of the constellations antedeluvian,
and thinks they were framed by inspiration for
sacred and prophetic purposes. There are actual
astronomical calculations in existence with calen-
dars framed upon them which eminent astrono'
mers of England and France admit to be genuine
and true, and which carry back the antiquity of
this science, together with the constellations, to
within a few years of the deluge, even on the
longer chronology of the Septuagint.
There is perhaps no much better test of a sound,
practical astronomy than to be able to determine
truly the four cardinal points, a very simple and
easy thing most people would think, but not so
easy when it is brought to the test. The compass
alone can never be depended upon except in a
general way. The attempts of man to orient truly
even with the aid of science have shown constant
inaccuracy. Tycho Brahe’s celebrated Uranibourg
Observatory is faulty in orientation to five minutes
of a degree. The Greeks in the height of their glory
could not find the cardinal points astronomically
within eight degrees, but the builders of the Great
Pyramid out in the Libyan Desert with no guide
or landmark but the naked stars were able to orient
their structure so exactly that the science of the
wisest Athenian sages eighteen hundred years
[90]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
afterwards was seventy times, and the observatory
of Uranibourg nearly four times farther out of
the way than it. (“A Miracle in Stone,” pp.
78, 141'143.)
Both Professor C. P. Smyth and Flanders Petrie
agree that originally the pyramid’s four sides
pointed accurately north, south, east and west, but
owing to the extremely gradual movement of the
earth’s surface the orientation of the pyramid’s
sides is now not absolute, but a little more than
five degrees of an arc therefrom. In other words,
the Great Pyramid actually proves that the crust
of the earth is gradually shifting, which is some'
thing scientists have recently come to recognize
and take into account.
Recent and careful measurements of the exterior
of the Great Pyramid have revealed the fact that
its “core-masonry base” is not truly rectangular
but slanted inwards so that the center of each side
is some thirty'six inches nearer to the center of the
pyramid than the same point on a true line. The
result of course is that the width through from side
to side across the base is seventy'two inches less
than from corner to corner. This is marvelously
significant when we consider that there are three
different year values known respectively as the
solar year, the sidereal year, and the anomalistic
[ 9 1 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
year. These different year values arise from the
fact that the inclination of the earth's axis of
rotation is neither constant in amount nor direc­
tion, and that its plane of revolution is not rigidly
fixed. Now when we examine the base plan
of the pyramid according to its geometrical
reconstruction, we discover the following remark­
able features:
First—That the actual (recessed) structural
circuit in inches and fractions of an inch (the inch
here representing days and fractions of days) gives
a value for the sidereal year of 365.2564.
Second—That the true square circuit of the
pyramid gives a value for the solar year of
365.25246.
Third—That the geometrical circuit, internal to
the actual structural circuit, gives a value for the
anomalistic year of 365.2599 inches.
The difference in the fractions of these three
numbers represents the different lengths of these
years with an accuracy only arrived at in fairly
modern times. To the ancients only one year, the
solar, was understood, and its length was only
approximately determined, yet the pyramid gives
the latter more correctly than does our method of
reckoning in leap years with the omission of one in
each century. Could this be mere coincidence?
[92]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Furthermore, they built a pyramid which de-
fined, by its shadows and reflections, the seasons of
the year. Upon the day on which a shadow was
cast on the north face of the pyramid at noon, the
people went forth to plant their crops. Study
proves that this shadow was not an accident be'
cause the pyramid was so oriented and its slopes
so fashioned that, when the sun reached a certain
height in the sky the shadow was cast by the pyra'
mid. The following quotation from D. Davidson’s
work, “The Great Pyramid: Its Divine Message,”
page 41, will cause the thoughtful reader to give
the pyramid some serious thought:
“In the Great Pyramid we have four sloping
surfaces at the same angle of slope, accurately
oriented, and built at a selected latitude. These
comprise four constants.
“W e could understand the two structural con­
stants having been purposely brought to a selected
latitude and there oriented to enable the noon
phenomena to define November 1. But the chances
against the same four constants defining the begin­
ning and ending of summer by a horizontal south
reflection and the equinoxes by northeast and
northwest directions are so overwhelming as to be
deemed impossible.
[93]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“Yet the equinoctial phenomenon and the phe­
nomenon of the beginning and ending of summer,
both resulting from the same simple combination of
constants, prove the phenomena to have been
intentional. Three precise series of independent
coincidences of such a nature can not happen
by chance.”
It was Hipparchus, about 150 B. C., who first
noted within historic times that the stars as com­
pared with the equinoctial or common year had
fallen back about thirty degrees from what their
time then was. A t this rate of retardation it takes
about nine and one-half million of our days, or
about 25,694.5 years for this rising and setting to
come back again to the exact point at which the
calculations began. W e thus have a great astrono­
mical cycle, less than one-fourth of which has
passed since man was placed upon the earth. Now
it is a remarkable fact that the sum of the inches
in the diagonals of the base of the Great Pyramid
measure almost exactly that figure, 25,694.5. And
these figures are also found to be the measure of
the pyramid’s perimeter at the level of the King's
Chamber on the fiftieth course of masonry, which
may therefore be defined as the Processional Cir­
cuit of the pyramid.
[94]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
It is by means of this Grand Procession of the
Equinoxes in connection with its star pointers, that
the Great Pyramid also tells the date of its erection.
In the year I860, Dr. Sayffarth expressed the
opinion that a certain sarcophagus in the British
Museum, because of its star position markings,
must date back to the year 1722 B. C. Professor
Mitchile, the celebrated astronomer, made the
necessary calculations and proved the Doctor was
right. This substantiates the contention that the
ancient Egyptians dated their monuments by indi-
eating the position of the stars, and this ex-
plains the scored lines on the wall of the descend­
ing passage of the Great Pyramid, and also, to
quote Dr. Sayffarth, that “Manethos’ thirty thou­
sand years of Egyptian history is all bosh, for the
planetary configurations found on the different
monuments bring all history within the limits of
established records.”
Practically all pyramid students have held the
opinion that the direction of the entrance passage
by its pointing to a particular star in conjunction
with other astronomical alignments, together with
the two sharply defined fines cut in the wall some
distance down the entrance passage indicated the
year of its construction as B. C. 2140. Mr. David­
son, however, in his recently published volume
[9f 1
)
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
(Pars. 240-242) points out that while this might
be the case, we can not be absolutely certain that
either 2140 or 2144 B. C., which is the date he
prefers, were the ones in which the pyramid was
finished, because there is no way of knowing
whether the reign of Cheops, the builder of the
Great Pyramid, included these years or not. The
real purpose of the scored lines, as pointed out by
Mr. Davidson, is probably to show that the pyra­
mid day begins at midnight at the Great Pyramid,
and the pyramid year at the beginning of the
autumnal equinox. In other words, that it supplies
a dictum for pyramid chronology. (“Bible in
Stone, pp. 29, 30, 33.)
In this connection Messrs. John and Edgar
Morton, authors of “Pyramid Passages," Glasgow,
Scotland, who have measured and photographed
all parts of the Great Pyramid, insist that by
astronomical indications as well as by exact time
measurements these twin lines in the downward
descending passages do indicate the date 2140
B. C. as that of the pyramid’s erection. In that
year at midnight of the autumnal equinox the pole
star of that period. Alpha Draconis, or the dragon
star, shone down the pyramid’s descending passage,
while at the same moment Alcyone, of the re­
nowned group of seven stars called the Pleiades,
196 1
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
was crossing the meridian of the pyramid to the
south. Such exact celestial coincidence can not
again take place until the long processional period
of 25,694.5 years shall have come and gone.
(“Stone Witness,” p. 3.) It should be remem'
bered that while the pole star remains apparently
fixed for centuries at a time owing to the very slow
movement of the Grand Procession of the Equfi
noxes, that the Pleiades moves across the heaven
from east to west like the sun, though not quite as
fast, so that at midnight on that long ago autumnal
equinox the pyramid, the pole star and the Pleiades
formed a kind of clock with the pyramid’s apex, or
minute hand, pointing up at Alcyone, and its
entrance passage, or hour hand, pointing diagonally
upward at the pole star, just as if it were 2 a. m.
by a clock, only by this clock it was 2140 B. C.
One of the great problems of astronomy has been
to determine the distance to the sun. Scientists
have labored long and patiently to solve this great
problem, and as near as they have been able to
determine it is somewhere between 95,000,000
and 91,840,270 miles. In 1824, Encke gave the
distance as 95,370,000 miles, and his estimate was
generally received. Later measurements brought
this sum down to 92,600,000. M. Puiseaux makes
the distance 91,840,270, while still later estimates
[97]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
based upon the most careful measurements place it,
to quote the Lick Observatory on Mt. Hamilton,
California, at 92,995,000 miles; with 100,000
miles either way to allow for mistakes. Now the
base of the Pyramid by its precise indication of the
solar year length may be regarded as representing
the orbit of the earth around the sun, the sun itself
being represented by the building’s top stone. By
an outstanding proportion representative of the
Great Pyramid, the mean distance separating the
sun and earth is indicated by the distance of the
top stone at the base. This proportion is ten to the
ninth power. Therefore when we multiply the
vertical height of the pyramid by one thousand
million we get the mean distance of the sun from
the earth, or close to 91,850,000 miles. “For a
more exact figure we must go to the pyramid’s
base, where by means of calculations too compli-
cated to include in this brief treatise, we find the
sun’s distance to be 92,996,085 miles, which is
probably the actual true value.” (“Great Pyramid,
Its Divine Message,” pp. 134-135.)
Mr. Morton Edgar, who has spent much time in
a personal study of the Great Pyramid, tells us that
it is from the base of the pyramid that we learn the
day value of the solar tropical year, for the peri­
meter of the building’s square base contains as
[98]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
many times an even one hundred pyramid inches
and fraction of one hundred inches as there are
days and fractions of a day in the year. The
days in the solar year and in the synodic month
are indicated many times by the pyramid's in­
terior dimensions.
But there is a yet grander thought embodied in
this wonderful structure. Of its five points, there
is one of special preeminence, in which all its sides
and upward exterior lines terminate. It is the
summit comer, which lifts its solemn index finger
to the sun at midday. Now if we go back to the
date which the pyramid gives itself, and look for
what that finger pointed to at midnight, we find a
far sublimer indication.
Science has at last discovered that the sun is not
a dead center. It is now ascertained that the sun
also is in motion, carrying with it its splendid
retinue of comets, planets, its satellites and theirs,
around some other vastly mightier center. Astrono­
mers are not yet fully agreed as to what or where
that center is. Some, however, believe that they
have found the direction of it to be the Pleiades,
and particularly Alcyone, the central one of the
renowned Pleiadic stars. To the distinguished
German astronomer, Professor J. H. Maedler,
belongs the honor of having made this discovery.
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Alcyone, then, as far as science has been able to
perceive, would seem to be the “midnight throne”
in which the whole system of gravitation has its
central seat, and from which the Almighty governs
His universe. And here is the wonderful corre­
sponding fact, that at the date of the Great Pyra­
mid's completion, at midnight of the autumnal
equinox, and hence the true beginning of the year
as still preserved in the traditions of many nations,
the Pleiades were distributed over the meridian
of the Great Pyramid, with Alcyone precisely
on the line.
Here, then, is a pointing of the highest and
sublimest character that mere human science has
never been able so much as to hint, and which
would seem to breathe an unsuspected and mighty
meaning into that speech of Job when he de­
manded, “Canst thou bind the sweet influence
of Pleiades?”
Could all these things have been mere coinci­
dences? Is it possible that they just happened so
out of blind chance? Then what is the reason that
nothing of the sort has happened in the scores of
other Egyptian pyramids? And if they were really
designed by the builders, whence then came this
surprising intelligence, unsurpassed and uncon-
tradictable by the best scientific attainments of
[ 100]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
modem man? (“A Miracle in Stone,” pp. 90-92.)
There is only one possible answer, and that is—
God! And if God, the Creator and upholder of the
universe, built the secrets of the stellar spheres and
their majestic movements into the Great Pyramid
of Gizeh by inspiration through men whose minds
were responsive to His own, is it too much to
believe that He also guided and directed the
thoughts of those who penned the sacred Scrip­
tures? And if the pyramid’s geography, mathe­
matics and astronomy is perfect, why should we
doubt the truth of God’s Word? If the Almighty
through the responsive minds of faithful men
transformed the rock of Egyptian quarries into a
vast monument, and breathed into it knowledge
worthy of the best achievements of twentieth
century science, could He not through the divine
power of the third person of the Trinity transform
matter into the physical organism of man and
breathe into that waiting clay a part of Himself, so
that man became a living soul, capable of thinking
His thoughts after Him—able to transform the
crude elements of earth into the ten thousand
marvelously useful and beautiful things that bless
our world today?
[ 101 ]
C h a p t e r X.
THE BIBLICAL PROPHECIES
In approaching the historical phase of the pyra'
mid’s message we ought to remember that what to
us is four thousand years of history, was to the
builders of this great “witness pillar”—prophecy:
and by good right it should be classified as such;
but because we are so accustomed to think of that
which is past as history and that which looks into
the future as prophecy, it seems best to treat all
that the pyramid symbolizes up to our own day as
history, and only that which is believed to teach
regarding that which lies beyond us, as prophecy.
Perhaps the most marvelous thing about this
great pile is that without the chiseling of a single
letter or figure its builders have not only given us
a great mass of geographical, mathematical, and
astronomical data, but have portrayed with sun
prising eloquence and accuracy the movements of
mankind along the two great avenues that lead to
the final destinies of our race.
From the earliest known time different portions
of the heavens have been designated and known by
C 103]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
certain figures supposed to be outlined by the stars
which they embrace. There are now about eighty
of these constellations. The stars of which they are
composed the Bible declares to be for “signs” as
well as for seasons, days and years. The probability
is that the earlier and more remarkable of these
designations were made by God Himself even be'
fore the flood. Josephus attributes the invention of
the constellations to the family of Seth, the son of
Adam, and refers to ancient writers as authority.
Origin affirms that it was asserted in the book of
Enoch that in the time of that patriarch the
constellations were already divided and named.
The Book of Enoch translated by Bishop Lawrence
is as a whole an apocryphal production, dating
somewhere about the beginning of Herod, before
Christ. It has some ten chapters devoted to the
mysteries of astronomy, the heavenly bodies, and
their relations and revolutions. It will at least serve
to show what was the feeling on the part of those
whom the writer represents when he says that “all
these things were made known to Enoch by Uriel,
the holy angel, who gave the whole account of
them according to every year of the world forever,
until a new work, or a creation, shall be effected
which will be eternal.” The twelve signs of the
[ 104]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
zodiac are plainly indicated in this book. (See Book
of Enoch, chapter 71, pp. 84, 87, 232.)
Quoting Whitman’s Notes, we find: “The word
zodiac means ‘a way,’ and is an imaginery zone of
the heavens, within which lies the path of the sun,
moon, and principal planets. It is bounded by two
circles equidistant from the ecliptic, about eighteen
degrees apart, and is divided into twelve signs, and
marked by twelve constellations. The signs are
geometrical divisions thirty degrees in extent,
counting from the spring equinox in the direction
of the sun’s progress through them.”
During the Jewish history and even down to our
own day, the zodiac, which appears in a circle, has
had no beginning or end, and its true language
could not be read. The Jews began their year with
Aries, which all astrologers agree controls the
head of all organized beings. It was not until our
own generation that someone solved the riddle of
the Sphinx—the woman’s head upon the lion’s
body near the Great Pyramid of Egypt—that the
beginning of the zodiac was found and its true
story again told to the world. The word sphinx
does not mean riddle, as so many supposed, but
union, or joined together. It was noticed that as
the woman and the lion were united in the sphinx,
t 105 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
so were the beginning and end of the zodiac united
in Leo, the Lion, and Virgo, the Virgin.
The gospel of the stars is a perfect story,
beginning with the Virgin and closing with the
King. All mythology can be traced through
perverted stories of the zodiac.
The division of the zodiac into three books is
simply a classification of the general subject, but
the chapters as they appear are each represented
by the figure of a person or animal, which gives the
name to the sign. In each of these signs or chapters
are three bright stars, the names of which represent
either persons or animals. Book I treats of the Re'
deemer. His first coming, and His suffering.
Chapter 2 contains the prophecy of the promised
Seed of the Woman, under the sign of Virgo, the
Virgin. It pictures a woman holding in one hand
an olive branch and in the other an ear of corn.
Four times in the Bible Christ is called a Branch.
The three stars in this sign are Coma, meaning the
Desired One; Centarus, the Despised Sin Offering;
Bootes, He Cometh. Coma in this group is a mother
holding a babe in her arms. It was in the head of
this babe that the “Star in the East” appeared.
Chapter 2 tells of The Redeemers atoning
work, under the sign of Libra; that is, the price
deficient, balanced by the price which covers. The
r 106 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
three stars under this sign are Crux, meaning the
cross endures; Lupus, the victim slain; and Corona,
the crown bestowed. It is in keeping with the
whole interpretation that Corona should be directly
over Jerusalem once every twenty-four hours.
Chapter 3 describes the Redeemer's conflict,
under the sign of Scorpio, or the Scorpion, seeking
to wound but itself trodden under foot. Under this
sign the star Serpens represents a serpent struggling
with a man; Ophiucus, struggle with the enemy;
Hercules, the mighty man, his foot on the head of
the dragon, holds aloft the tokens of victory.
Chapter 4— The Redeemer’s Triumph, under
the sign of Sagittarius, the Archer. In this chapter
Lyra means praise prepared for the conqueror;
Ara, consuming fire prepared for his enemies;
Draco, the Old Serpent—the Devil—cast down
from heaven, and so on through to the end.
Volney informs us that everywhere in antiquity
there was a cherished tradition of an expected
conqueror of the serpent, and asserts that this
tradition is reflected in the constellations as well as
all the heathen mythologies. Dupuis, also, and
others of his school have collected ancient authori­
ties abundantly proving that in all nations this
tradition always prevailed, and that the same is
represented in the constellations. “Indeed,” says
[ 107]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Seiss, “antiquity with one voice declares for their
very early origin, and the result of modern investi-
gations by astronomers themselves confirms the
traditions and reveals (through the meaning of the
names of the stars) their having been constructed
more than five thousand years ago.”
“But what is thus astronomically made out is
surprisingly corroborated in another way. These
low tubular passageways prove themselves to be
time charts also. They symbolize scrolls of human
history as well as point out stars, and the notations
in the one answer exactly to the other. The inch
as a unit for a year also appears in these avenues.
The entrance tube begins the record with the dis­
persion after the flood, and dates from the forma­
tion of nations.”
According to Bible chronology, Adam was
created 4000 B. C. It is possible that there might
have been a pre-Adamic race which because of sin
was blotted out by a great flood which occurred
long before the time of Noah. Certain passages in
the Bible and the traditions of sunken continents
(see “Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific,”
by Wishar Cerve, as described in rear of this book),
lend support to this view, but this has no bearing
upon the Scriptural account of the origin of the
present race of men. The question is whether or
[ 108]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
not the Pyramid confirms the written word. W e
believe it does, and for the following reasons: First,
because a line drawn down the north face of the
pyramid and produced into the bed rock beneath,
and another produced down into the bed rock in
line with the Ascending Passage would meet at a
point which according to the year to the inch
theory would yield exactly 4000 B. C.
Second, because in Genesis 2:17 we read, “But
of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou
shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest
thereof thou shalt surely die.” Adam did not die
in the twenty'four hour day that he ate thereof.
But he did die in the nine hundred and thirtieth
year of the first thousand year day of human
history. (See Genesis 5:5.) Now notice that the
length of a line drawn up the north face of the
original casing stones and down the Descending
Passage to the beginning of the basement sheet, or
floor paving of that passage, measures just 1000
inches, or years, while a line drawn parallel with
this line, from the beginning of the basement sheet
to the base line of the pyramid measures exactly
930 inches. A rather startling coincidence of the
Bible, is it not?
Third, we learn that Adam was created morally
perfect but that he fell from this high level through
[ 109]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
disobedience, and that because of his sin mankind
has since marched down the dark passage that leads
to destruction. Looking at the Pyramid, we dis-
cover four great stones situated above the present
entrance. These stones constitute a kind of double
pyramid, one above the other, with the true base
line of the upper one on a line with the floor of the
Queen’s Chamber, which is the line of human per*
fection; i. e., the line upon which Jesus was born.
The apex of the lower pyramid just reaches this
line, which forcibly suggests the fall of man from
his original condition to one which, while still
possessing the capacity for holiness, marks a tragic
slip toward the abyss.
All nations have preserved traditions of the
flood. The Scriptures refer to it again and again in
both Testaments. It is also embalmed in the tradi-
tions of many tribes and nations who are un-
familiar with the Bible. But what is just as remark­
able is the fact that the full length of the Descend­
ing Passage of the Great Pyramid exactly corre­
sponds in inch years with the Bible chronology and
subsequent history from the flood to A. D. 1914.
Again, if we enquire into the position of the signs
of the zodiac indicated by the stars at the date of
the flood it is startling to discover that Aquarius,
the water man, instead of the Pleiades, is on the
i no]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
meridian above the Pyramid, with the line crossing
the very mouth of the vessel whence issues the
mighty stream. Besides, if we measure from the
north corner socket of the Pyramid up the original
line of the casing stones to the original entrance,
thence down the passage to the beginning of the
roof line, then vertically down to base line and
north to point of beginning, and add the inches to
these measurements, the sum will be 1654, which
is the number of years from Adam to the flood. So
the stars, the Pyramid, and the Bible agree.
Two other features of these time measurements
are truly startling. The first is that measuring
down the Descending Passage from the flood line
to the beginning of the Horizontal Passage that
leads to the pit gives us 1521 inches, and 1521
marks the great Reformation of Luther. Second,
there is a recess in the west wall of the Horizontal
Passage near the pit which permits considerable
freedom of movement, and strange to say the
measurements of this recess indicate 1789, the
date of the French Revolution and the election of
George Washington as first President of the
United States under the newly adopted constitu­
tion. Freedom of movement in the Pyramid—
new freedom for mankind. Both 1789—rather
strange, isn’t it?
[ m 1
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
One of the oldest and most universal of these
ancient constellations is the Dragon or Great
Serpent. The chief star embraced in that group
(Draconis) is situated in the monster’s tail, and to
that star the entrance passage of the Great Pyra­
mid was originally leveled, so that Draconis then
looked right down that inclined tube to the bottom­
less pit. Mankind marching down that passage
would therefore be moving under the sign and
dominion of the Dragon. Thus in a manner which
startles by its vividness the Great Pyramid answers
to the Bible in saying that there is a devil who has
somehow obtained an awful potency over the
human race, and that mankind under him is on the
way to the pit of destruction. The picture is that
of a tube over which the dragon presides, whose
incline is fearfully downwards, and which termi­
nates in the chaos of the pit. Could the story be
told in simpler or more graphic terms?
Some laugh at the idea of Satan and assure us
that the only devil in existence is the one within
our own breasts, but the Bible and some six thou­
sand years of human experience are one voice in
declaring that there is such a principle. In Genesis
3 we read of the serpent—“Shining One”—
“Angel”—not snake. (See The Companion Bible,
Vol. 1, Appendix 19), who tempted Eve. In
[ H2]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Ezekiel 28 of the “Anointed Cherub,” who was
full of wisdom, perfect in beauty; who walked
upon the holy mountain of God in the midst of the
stones of fire; a mighty angel, perfect in his ways
from the day of his creation until iniquity was
found in him—until lifted up with pride he said in
his heart (Isaiah 14:13): “I will ascend into
heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of
God: I will sit also upon the mount of the con'
gregation, in the sides of the north, I will ascend
above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the
Most High.” “Yet thou shalt be brought down to
hell, and the sides of the pit. How art thou fallen
from heaven, O Lucifer, Son of the Morning! How
art thou cast down to the ground, which did
weaken the nations!" Jesus said, “I beheld Satan
as lightning fall from the heaven." (Luke 10:18).
He spoke of the Devil as a person; as the Prince
of this world; as a murderer from the beginning,
who abode not in the truth; as a liar, “and the
father of it.” In the Acts of the Apostles we read
of Satan’s filling the heart of Ananias and causing
him to lie to the Holy Ghost. Paul and the other
writers warned the Christians to beware of “the
Devil who goeth about like a roaring lion seeking
whom he may devour.” In Revelation he is called
“the angel of the bottomless pit, the Great Dragon,
[ 113 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the Old Serpent, the Devil, and Satan who de'
ceiveth the whole world.” So again the Bible and
the Pyramid are found to be in perfect accord.
It is even more unpopular to express a belief in
hell than in Satan; but so long as people carry hell
around with them and project hell into the lives of
those about them; so long as the newspapers from
day to day publish a record of hellish deeds; so long
as war, which Sherman rightly designated as
“hell,’ continues to exist, it would seem rather
silly to argue against it. One thing is absolutely
certain—character determines destiny—and until
those who object to the doctrine of perdition for
the wicked can prove that a person who has spent
his life in creating hell for others, will experience
such a change of heart and character out beyond
the grave as shall make hell impossible for him, it
must be apparent to any person who thinks that we
are driven by the sheer force of logic to acknowl-
edge the existence of hell.
t 114]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Pollok makes this plain in his startling lines
on virtue:
Virtue, like God, whose excellent majesty,
Whose glory virtue is, is omnipresent.
No being, once created rational.
Accountable, endowed with moral sense,
With sapience of right and wrong endowed.
And changed, however, fallen, debased, destroyed;
However lost, forlorn, and miserable;
In guilt’s dark shroudings wrapped however thick;
However drunk, delirious, and mad,
With sin’s full cup; and with whatever damned
Unnatural diligence it work and toil,
Can banish virtue from its sight, or once
Forget that she is fair.
“For still the eternal beauty, image fair,
Once stamped upon the soul, before the eye
All lovely stands, nor will depart; so God
Ordains; and lovely to the worst she seems,
And ever seems; and as they look, and still
Must ever look upon her loveliness,
Remembrance dire of what they were, of what
They might have been, and bitter sense of what
They are, polluted, ruined, hopeless, lost,
With most repenting torment rend their hearts.
So God ordains, their punishment severe,
Eternally inflicted by themselves.
'Tis this, this virtue hovering evermore
Before the vision of the damned, and in
Upon their monstrous moral nakedness
Casting unwelcome light, that makes their woe,
That makes the essence of the endless flame.
Where this is, there is hell.”
—(“Course of Time, pp. 23-24.)
[ l» ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Now if man is journeying downgrade toward
the pit of perdition by the light of the Dragon star,
it must be perfectly clear that unless some superior
power intervenes, he is doomed. That such a power
did intervene is evidenced by the upward ascend'
ing passage, which is typical of the straight and
narrow way that leadeth unto life. By adding the
length of the granite plug (see chart) to the length
of this first ascending passage, we obtain a value
of 1647 inches, which is equivalent to an equal
number of years; and this is precisely the length of
time which elapsed between the exodus of the
children of Israel from the land of Egypt under
Moses to the crucifixion of Christ. This passage is
symbolic of the Mosaic dispensation. It is repre'
sentative of the Decalogue. It tells us as plainly
as stone can be made to do so, that there is
a way of escape from the dark passage which
leads to destruction.
But the significant thing about this passage is the
fact that it is closed at its beginning by a block of
granite that was “BUILT IN" when the Pyramid
was constructed. This granite block represents our
moral depravity. It is indicative of the fact that
though there is a way up to God provided in the
Ten Commandments, yet because of our inherent
sinfulness we find it impossible to keep these com-
[ 116]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
mandments, and therefore the avenue to heaven is
just as effectually closed to us as this Ascending
Passage is by the granite block. This being our
condition, what shall we do? The Pyramid does
not leave us in doubt, but like the Bible tells us of
the Saviour, for we find by careful measurement
between the point at which the floor line of the
Queen’s Chamber intersects the floor line of the
Ascending Passage, and the point at which the ceiT
ing of the Ascending Passage intersects the lower
perpendicular of the Grand Gallery, a distance of
almost exactly llV i inches, which equals the pre-
cise number of years and fractions of a year that
Jesus Christ, God’s Son, spent upon this earth.
But what is even more surprising is the existence
of a well, steep, rugged and dangerous, leading
diagonally downward from the last of these inches
to a point in the Descending Passage near the
bottomless pit, thus making a “way of escape” even
from the brink of hell. For there can be only one
meaning to this, and that a startlingly significant
and glorious one. This well tells the story of
Christ’s death for sinners. His descent into the
regions of the dead, where He spent three
days, and then returned, bursting the bars of
death forever.
t i n 1
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The fact of His resurrection is most vividly
attested by the discovery that the builders of the
Pyramid, after having covered this fearful well
with a heavy stone securely “BUILT IN ,” went
below it and by the exertion of terrific force broke
it upward, tearing away part of the wall itself to
portray in stone that “it was not possible that
Christ should be holden of death ” Since that first
glorious Eastern morning there has been a way by
which any sinner, even though he totters upon the
slippery edge of the abyss, may, if he will accept
Jesus as sin bearer and Saviour, find a way up-
ward, past the cross and through the empty
tomb of Christ into the Grand Gallery of the
Christian experience.
There is another feature of the Great Pyramid
which should be noted just here, and that is the
Grotto, marked “G” on the chart. This room is
situated part way down the well which leads to the
bottomless pit and would symbolize, it seems to the
author, that abode of the righteous dead which
Jesus mentioned on the cross when He turned to
the repentant thief and said, “Today thou shalt be
with Me in Paradise.” (Luke 23:43.)
Certainly the righteous were not in the bottom­
less pit, because they looked forward by faith to
the atonement, just as we look back at it, and their
[ 118]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“faith was counted unto them for righteousness."
(Romans 4:1-8). Nor were they in heaven, for
Christ had “not yet ascended unto His Father.”
(John 20:17.) Therefore, they must have been in
a place of waiting, and this place, through which
the disembodied Christ passed to proclaim His
victory to “the spirits in prison which some time
were disobedient, when once the long-suffering of
God waited in the days of Noah” (I Peter 3:19,
20) and back through which He came to His resur­
rection, is perfectly symbolized by this grotto.
When on that first Easter morning Jesus snapped
the bars of death, He opened the door of this prison
— of hope, and when He “ascended on high He
led captivity captive and gave gifts unto men”
(Ephesians 4:8). That is. He emptied Paradise,
taking those who had rested there (Psalms 16:8-
11) with Him into glory (John 17-24), where all
true believers have since gone at death (Philip-
pians 1:21-23), and poured out the gift of the
Holy Spirit upon men (Acts 2).
“No marble hall ever constructed can compare
with this in finish, beauty and mechanical skill. It
is one of the finest things of the kind ever erected
by man. The knitting of the joints is so close that
you cannot discern them with the natural eye.”
(“The Great Pyramid," J. L. Smith, p. 6.) The
{ 119 }
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Grand Gallery is a symbol of the Christian era—
the grandest section in all the scrolls of human
history. Its floor line begins at the inch which
marks the Saviour's birth. Its entire length is
covered with thirty-six overspanning stones, the
number of the months of Christ’s public ministry.
Its seven overlapping courses of wall stones are
symbolic of the seven churches to which the glori-
fied Christ sent seven distinct messages (Revela­
tion 1:3 ). Adding to these seven courses of stone
the ramp that runs along the floor on each side of
the Grand Gallery, we have eight courses, and
eight, as we have already seen, is the number which
represents Christ as Saviour and Redeemer, mak­
ing a new beginning, and this new beginning
was the Christian era—the era of the church, the
Bride of Christ.
In these ramps, which are twelve inches wide
and twelve inches high, fifty-six oblong cavities or
open graves have been sculptured, and directly
above each one set vertically into the wall there are
small shafts of stone which proclaim as loudly as
stone can be made to do those two great funda­
mentals of the Christian faith, the death and resur­
rection of the Saviour. It is interesting to note that
the number of inches in the whole length of the
Grand Gallery divided by these fifty-six ramp
[ 120]
THE GRAND GALLERY
(Courtesy of Morton Edgar, Glasgow, Scotland)
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
holes gives the exact number of years embraced in
Christ’s earthly life from His birth to His ascension
into heaven. It may also be observed that the
length of the Grand Gallery in inches divided by
the number of stones by which it is covered gives
the exact number of weeks in a year, including the
fraction, and that these thirty'six roof stones like'
wise count the number of millions of cubic inches
of space, enclosed in the gallery, of which they
are the ceiling.
It is a surprising fact that the conditions of these
ramp stones appear to coincide with features in the
condition of the church at different dates in its
history. W ithout intending to found an argument
on these particulars, they are sufficiently curious
and interesting to be noticed. The ramp stones on
the east side of the gallery from 1087 to 1186
inches from the beginning seem to have been urn
usually weak and frail, as much of the ramp for
this interval is almost entirely broken away. So on
the west side from 1240 to 1317 inches the ramp
has considerably yielded and is much broken away.
So the incisions in the ramps; that is, the ramp
holes or little open graves on the east side from
1087 to 1186 inches are almost entirely gone. On
the west side from 1240 to 1317 inches it is the
same. Professor Smith remarks that along nearly
[ 122]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the whole distance from 400 to 1800 inches of the
western ramp and occasionally along the eastern,
there are longitudinal parallel scratches forming
almost a border or species of intended ornament
following the direction of the ramp. They are
inflicted upon and along close to the top and
toward the axis of the gallery, but although the
same lines are traceable far they do not extend the
whole distance, being more or less gradually re­
placed by others.
If then we take an inch as the symbol of a year
as in other instances, we would thus have signs of
weakening and giving away from 1000 to 1317
A. D., and again from 640 to 1400 A. D. There
would seem to be also the signs of violent and
varied defacements beginning with about 400
A. D., and extending more or less with some inter­
changes down to the nineteenth century. Compare
these indications now with the historical facts and
general condition of the church at those dates
of our era.
A. D. 640 was the time in which lordly privi­
leges and investments were conferred upon the
clergy, introducing that wide and long continued
severance between them and the laity, just as the
east ramp from 640 to 1400 A. D. is fissured and
parted from the walls. A. D. 1000 to 1300 was a
t 123 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
period in which the church reached its most
ruinous condition. It was during this time that the
church was rent into two opposing factions, the
eastern and western, who mutually excommunu
cated each other. It was the period in which
transubstantiation was confirmed as a doctrine.
Mayoralty inserted in the liturgies, and converts
made by force of arms. It was the age of Hilde'
brand and the establishment of a Caesarism over
the church of God. It was a period of corruption,
profligacy, ignorance and disgrace, when the read'
ing of the Bible was prohibited under the severest
penalties, and false sacraments were multiplied,
penances instituted, indulgences invented, and the
church subjected to a blind submission to a domb
neering priesthood. These are the inch numbers
which include the greatest dilapidation, breakages,
and defects.
Take now those which indicate the greatest
firmness and durability. A. D. 1186 and onward
presents various movements for a better order of
things. The beginnings of reformation, the revival
of education, the commencement of the study of
the classics and of theology as a science, and the
introduction of reason and sense into the treatment
of sacred things. It was the period when the human
mind began to stir again. In it was laid the founda-
[ 124]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
tions on which the great Reformation was subset
quently wrought out. I lay no special stress on
these somewhat striking coincidences, for it is but
natural that some stones in the ramp courses should
be more firm and durable than others, but still if
God really had anything to do with the construc­
tion of the Great Pyramid, He could just as easily
as not have caused these weaker stones and these
violent inflictions to come just at those places and
between these measures where they would best
symbolise the incidents of church history.
One of the most exalted steps in the history of
the church was that which was accomplished
during the first quarter of the nineteenth century.
It was in the first twenty-five years following 1800
that Christendom throughout the world formed its
great organisations for the dissemination of the
Holy Scriptures, for the publication and general
diffusion of religious literature and gospel truth,
and for sending out and supporting missionaries to
the heathen, to plant the church of Jesus Christ in
all lands and islands. It was in these years that the
Christian world experienced a revival of aggressive
evangelisation and missionary seal, the greatest
and most general since the days of the apostles.
The first great step in breaking the Gentile rule
of Turkey over the Promised Land took place in
[ 125]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
1844. These years are so marked an advance on
everything that had taken place in the church for
more than twelve hundred years that we might
justly expect if the Great Pyramid really symbolizes
our dispensation to find some feature worthy of
representing them. Accordingly, following the
floorline of the pyramid's Grand Gallery toward its
upper end we come to a great step, three feet high.
I long wondered what it could mean. But when I
came to count the number of inches from the
commencement of the Grand Gallery to this upper
step, the mystery was solved. The number of those
inches is close about 1814, which at the rate of an
inch for a year brings us to the very center of those
years in which the church universal made this
mighty and unexampled stride. Beyond this step
there is no further ascent. The great stone which
forms it is also the weakest, most fractured and
dilapidated of all the stones in the whole passage­
way of the Grand Gallery. It shows a marvelous
rise, but an equally marvelous absence of solidity
and strength. It is the image of brokenness, feeble­
ness, and the want of firm texture. It seems as if
crumbling away under the feet of those who stand
upon it. And again this most strikingly accords
with the poor, rent, weak, and wasting character
of the Christianity of our time—a Christianity
[ ne]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
which is shot through with evolution, modernism
and doubt. (“A Miracle in Stone,” pp. 295'
302, 135'136.)
V V V
£ 127]
C h a p t e r XI.
RECENT WORLD EVENTS.
W e now come to a point directly beneath the
upper end of the Grand Gallery, the point at
which this magnificent hallway, twenty-eight feet
high, shrinks to a cramped passage less than four
feet high and so narrow one can neither deviate to
the right hand nor to the left, and almost uncannily
strange as it may seem, this narrow passage begins
at a point which measured geometrically is just
1914 inches from the beginning of the Grand
Gallery. Now as everybody knows, August, 1914,
marked the beginning of the World W ar, which
continued fifty-two months, and this narrow pas­
sage leading from the Grand Gallery into the
antechamber measures just fifty-two inches; and
because it does, some authorities suggest that the
pyramid inch as measured along the floor of this
passage which leads into the antechamber and
through the King’s Chamber, may have been
shortened in its meaning, so that it may be regarded
as representing not a year, but the Bible month of
[ 129]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
thirty days. But this is a theory which time will
either substantiate or refute.
These are tremendous days. Never since history
began have problems of such dynamic potentiality
presented themselves for solution. Economic prob'
lems involving the food and raiment of multiplied
millions stalk gaunt and terrible through legislative
halls demanding bread. Political problems upon
which hang the destinies of nations turn piercing,
bloodshot eyes upon the naked souls of those who
rule, and shriek for justice, while high over all, the
international problems like hideous, slow'gathering
clouds of mingled red and black, mount higher and
higher with the threat of universal war.
The following excerpts from “The Signs of the
Times” throw light upon the situation:
“A few months ago Russia threw a bombshell
into European militarism when her envoys to a
conference at Geneva proposed that all the nations
scrap their armies and navies within the next year.
Continental Europe immediately declared the plan
Utopian and wholly impracticable; and the English
press has been filled with vituperative adjectives
against the Russian proposal. It remains to be seen
whether the sincere proposals of the United States
to the nations of Europe that we mutually outlaw
war will be heeded or not, or whether they will
f no]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
continue to spar for the best position at the begin'
ning of ‘the next war.’
“Bible students declare that this is exactly what
will take place in our generation; namely, that,
although there will be an unprecedented amount
of peace talk, yet war preparations will go on apace
in spite of it, and that at the moment when the
peace propaganda shall reach its climax, the final
and greatest war of all human history will be
precipitated (I Thessalonians 5:1-3; Isaiah 2:3, 4;
Joel 3:9-13; Micah 4:1-5).”
But since this has not yet occurred and we have
no way of learning just when it will occur, ought
we not devote ourselves with the utmost energy
and determination to the business of “preaching
the Gospel to every creature,” trusting our Father
to work His perfect will, and to take good care of
His own when the “time for the restitution of
all things" arrives?
It is the opinion of many earnest believers that
God is not yet done with the Jew as a distinct and
peculiar people. As a nation they rejected Christ
and fell from their high preeminence and are now
on precisely the same footing with the Gentiles
with regard to the Christian dispensation. There
is no way of salvation nor any special privilege for
them now other than the gospel offers to all men
[ ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
alike. Through the atonement of Christ and union
with Him there is redemption for their souls the
same as others, but in no other way. But the belief
of many is that they are preserved in their singular
distinctness even in unbelief as the subjects of a
grand restoration and conversion when the Times
of the Gentiles are fulfilled, and that blindness in
part has happened unto them, in which as a people
they will remain until the time of the revelation of
Jesus Christ at His second coming. And to this
belief the Great Pyramid would also seem to
answer in a very marked manner.
A special national token of the Jews is the
Sabbath system. It was given of God and made to
purvey the whole Jewish economy as a thing by
which the chosen people were to be distinguished
from all other nations, and in the observance of
which they were to exhibit themselves as God’s
people. Disregard of this was held to be treason
to their king and a forfeiture of all their rights to
the promises. This Sabbatic system is specially
characteristic of the so-called Queen’s Chamber,
and the horizontal passage leading to it.
The Jews reached their highest point when of
them Christ was born. The same unbelief by
which they were broken off, they have ever since
retained. Hence the avenue which I take as
[ 132]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
a symbol of their history from Christ’s time
is horizontal except that the last seventh of
it drops lower than any other part. If the
later chapters of Ezekiel (from 36 onward)
and many other passages are to be literally taken,
and there is great difficulty in understanding them
any other way, there is to come for Israel a grander
restoration than that of their return from Babylon,
when they will be re-established in holiness accord­
ing to their ancient estate, and all their earthly
institutes will again be righted and put into full
effect. Hence this low horizontal passage termi­
nates in a grand Sabbatic room full of the most
important notations of the measures and propor­
tions of the whole pyramid.
Those who hold to this restoration of the Jews
hold also that they will be returned in their present
unbelief and blindness as regards the true Messiah,
and will only afterwards have the scales removed
from their eyes after the manner of Paul, who in
this respect was one bom before the time. This
seems to be distinctly set forth by the closed tubes.
Two ventilating tubes have been discovered in
the so-called Queen’s Chamber which the builders
left entirely closed over with a five-inch scale of
stone, which not only shut them from all observa­
tion but rendered them of no practical effect
[ 1 3 3 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
whatever. The room has therefore always been
noted for its foul air and noisome smell, for the
atmosphere there was left without circulation for
four thousand years. These tubes extended inward
through the masonry but were not cut through
into the room itself. On a hidden side of the wall
these air chambers were open, but on the visible
sides within the room the surface was smooth,
even, and unbroken the same as any other part. It
was only by something of an accident that Mr.
Wayman Dixon in 1872 noted a certain spot on
the wall that sounded hollow, broke open one of
these tubes, then located and opened the other. So
singular an arrangement could have none other
than a symbolic intent. No architectural reason for
the peculiarity can at all be traced, and most
strikingly would it serve to signify the blindness of
the Jew and his deadness in unbelief, needing only
the breaking away of those scales for the free
breath of God to purify everything again,
just as the scales fell from the eyes of Paul
after his conversion through a personal apocalypse
of Jesus Christ.
It is also fully agreed by those who hold to the
belief of the restoration of the Jews that they will
then be lifted spiritually far above the level which
has characterized them as a nation since the fall of
[ 134 3
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Jerusalem, and that quite a new, higher, and
holier spirit will be breathed into their ancient
ceremonials. And the same would seem to be
symbolized in this chamber. It has no proper floor
and is entered from a very low plane, even lower
than the avenue in general. But inside there is a
base line marked evenly around it at a range with
the square top of the entrance passage, indicating
a grand lifting up after having entered. It is in the
relative spaces above this line that the Sabbatism
and exalted proportions and commensurations of
the apartment appear. (“A Miracle in Stone,”
pp. 153458.)
Perhaps not more clearly cut was the miracle of
Israel’s birth as a nation upon their deliverance
from Pharaoh’s hosts at the Red Sea upon Nisan
17th in the long ago than was the miracle of that
nation's rebirth as the result of Jerusalem’s recent
deliverance upon the anniversary of “The Feast of
the Miracle,” celebrated for centuries by the Jews
upon Kislev 25th, and for the most part, the song
which Moses and Israel sang that day unto the
Lord was as appropriate for this latter deliverance
as for the former. Oh, that it might have been sung
from the housetops of Jerusalem on that memorable
morning of December 9th (Kislev 25th), 1917,
with the same gusto as it was sung upon the
1130
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
banks of the Red Sea in the distant past. (See
Exodus 15: l'l 8.)
‘T he Feast of the Miracle" is known in the
Scriptures as “The Feast of the Dedication,” and
to the modern Jew as “Hanukka.” (For a splendid
history of this feast, consult the Encyclopedia
Britannica under “Hanukka.”)
And now let us come to that which was happen'
ing in Jerusalem as the Jews were preparing to
celebrate “The Feast of the Miracle" in 1917.
Some months previously the Turks had deported
and most cruelly executed the Zionists, and just
prior to December 8th Jenal Pasha had unexpect'
edly ordered the Jews expelled from the city. This
order, coming as it did almost upon the eve of this
Feast, the keeping of which is so dear to the heart
of the Jew, threw the Jewish population of Jerusa­
lem into a panic.
“The unfortunate multitudes condemned to
deportation saw no means of salvation. They
hastened to hide themselves in subterranean pas­
sages and in various places of concealment, where
they could possibly hope to elude the evil hand
that sought to destroy them.
“It was in this darkness that the Jews awaited
the approach of their greatest national patriotic
festival. The Feast of the Miracle of ancient days
[ 1 3 6 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
—Hanukka—which should now take place in
a few hours.
“When the sun had set (upon December 8th
Kislev 24th) and the city of Jerusalem was glori-
fied with the rosy light of the Oriental afterglow,
THE MIRACLE was accomplished—the English
had arrived!
“When the next morning (Kislev 25th) dawned
over the city which had so long been desolated by
famine, pestilence and death, there was established
the reign of righteous peace. The great joy of
deliverance passed from mouth to mouth. All
those who were hidden in holes and subterranean
passages came out into the light. The people threw
themselves upon the necks of the English soldiers
and embraced them, crying, ‘W e have prayed for
you day and night.’
“Jewish women made their way toward the
Synagogue, carrying with them the pots of oil, the
offerings of the vows which they made for de­
liverance . . . and the protecting English flag
waved from the Tower of David. . . .Joy con­
tinued for the eight days of the Feast of Hanukka.
. . . It was the destiny of Hassan Effendi to
surrender Jerusalem to the English arms. He
graciously placed the keys of the Holy City in the
hands of one stronger to rule than himself—
[ H7]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Allenby. But this act caused him sorrowful emo-
tions, and a short time later he fell sick, and after
two weeks of illness he died.”
(Excerpts from a letter written by a Jewess in
Jerusalem at the time of the surrender of Jerusa-
lem, and published in "The Christian Herald,”
April 3, 1918.)
Do you see any analogy between “the time of
Jacob’s trouble” (tight place) with Pharaoh’s
pursuing hosts in the rear and the Red Sea in the
front, and the frightened Jews hidden “in subter'
ranean passages and in various other places of
concealment,” with an order for immediate de'
portation hanging over their heads, which meant
almost certain death upon its execution? Death
behind and death at the fore—surely Jacob had
come again to a “time of trouble”—a time of
“straightness”—a tight place. Their national
rebirth was in the balance. The time—yea, the set
time for Jerusalem’s deliverance had come, and
God heard the prayers that went up to Him from
those underground retreats of His people.
Are you a Jew that saw all this happen upon the
anniversary of the Feast of Miracles—Hanukka—
while every other war front was a devastated
tangle of cities, barbed wire, and the graves of
millions of slain, and not know that the God of
[ 138]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob wrought a miracle of
deliverance on your behalf as clearly as He did at
the Red Sea?
He has fulfilled the promise made through Isaiah
that “As birds flying so will the Lord of Hosts
defend Jerusalem; defending also He will deliver
it, and passing over He will preserve it.” (Isaiah
31:5.) The airplanes were the birds, and the Lord
of Hosts, through His agent, General Allenby,
was in very truth the defender, deliverer, and
preserver of Jerusalem.
No wonder when Frederick the Great asked his
court chaplain for proof of the divine inspiration
of the Scriptures, he answered, “The Jew, sir, the
Jew.” Moses and the other prophets solemnly
declared that Israel should be scattered among all
nations; that they should become a byword and a
hissing; that they should be persecuted and slain,
and yet should remain a peculiar people, separate
and distinct from the nations among whom they
live, and finally that in God's good time they
should be gathered back to their own land.
How marvelously these prophecies have been,
and are being fulfilled! They were scattered. They
have been a byword. They have suffered as per'
haps no other people ever did. And now they are
going back to their own land by thousands, and
[ 139]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Israel for the first time in 2500 years has her own
flag upon the sea. So God vindicates His Word
and puts His enemies to shame.
And now in conclusion, let us see whether the
Great Pyramid which has successfully met all the
other tests, will likewise vindicate itself when
subjected to the prophetic test.
V V V
I HO]
C h a p t e r XII.
HUM AN PROGRESS
While resolutely refusing to set any dates, we
must acknowledge that there is every reason to
believe that just as the antechamber with its great
granite portcullis represents a time of comparative
security cut across by the threat of impending
judgment, so the low, narrow passage leading from
the Grand Gallery into the King’s Chamber sym­
bolizes a time of trouble. Seiss calls attention to
the fact that the Bible warns us of a nearing day
when the Almighty Power that made us will
reckon with us concerning our earthly lives and
deal out destiny according to the uses we have
made of them. The Bible everywhere refers us to
an approaching crisis when the principles of
eternal justice must go into effect, when the
trampled law will inexorably enforce its supremacy,
when everything must be righted up and all that is
adverse to truth and good be forever blasted, when
faith and virtue shall be rewarded and enthroned,
and all else sink overwhelmed by a majesty which
nothing can withstand. It is described as a time
[ 141]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
of anguish and despair for those who have rejected
the gospel, but of reward and glorious coronation
for those who have accepted it. Its coming is
spoken of as sudden—“As the lightning cometh
out of the East and shineth even unto the West."
A t a time when men shall be crying “peace and
safety,” as they did before the flood, when they
shall be eating and drinking, planting, building,
buying, selling, marrying and giving in marriage,
just as they did when Noah was building the Ark,
and that just as suddenly as the deluge came, so
destruction shall sweep down upon them. Isaiah
33:7 says: “Behold, their valiant ones shall cry
without: the ambassadors of peace shall weep
bitterly.” And with all this the Great Pyramid
solemnly agrees.
The Grand Gallery, symbolic of the Christian
dispensation, stops abruptly. From a splendid
passageway twenty-eight feet high it ceases in'
stantly and is reduced to a passage less than four
feet high. The floorline no longer ascends, and one
stoops beneath ponderous blocks of frowning
granite which hang apparently about to fall over
the narrow passage. The antechamber in which
this threatening portcullis hangs by its very con'
struction exhibits rules, measures and weights
ingraven in majesty upon the imperishable granite
[ 142]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
for every one to pass under. The lesson seems to
be that now judgment is laid to the line and
righteousness to the plummet, that every secret sin
shall be revealed and every refuge of lies be swept
away. Everything indicates the inexorable adjudh
cation of eternal righteousness.
This solemn time is also everywhere repre-
sented as now close at hand. The prophetic dates
have about run out. The Scriptural signs of the
approaching end have appeared. Every method of
computation points to the conclusion that we are
now on the margin of the end of this dispensation.
A t any moment the scales may be stricken from
the eyes of unbelieving Israel by the coming of the
Lord. “For the Lord Himself shall come down
from heaven with a loud word of command, and
with an archangel’s voice and the trumpet of God,
and the dead in Christ shall rise first.” (I Tiles'
salonians 4:16, Weymouth.)
If the glory of the rapture does not convince
Israel that Jesus is their rejected Messiah, the
Revelation will, for “when the Lord goes forth to
fight against the nations and His feet stand upon
the Mount of Olives which is before Jerusalem,
they shall look on Him whom they pierced, and
they shall mourn for Him as one mourneth for his
only son.” (Zechariah 12:10.)
[ H3 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Jesus said, “I am not come to send peace on
earth but a sword” (Matthew 10:34), and on
every hand we see iniquity increasing and hear
mutterings of the coming storm. Here in the
United States the American Association for the
Advancement of Atheism has been officially
launched in many of our eastern universities.
The Bible teaches that God created the heaven
and earth; Evolution, that the universe was de'
veloped from matter by means of forces resident
within itself.
The Bible teaches that every living thing repro­
duces “after his kind"; Evolution, that the higher
species have developed from lower ones.
The Bible teaches that “God made man” ; Evolu'
tion, that he evolved from the amoeba through
countless transmutations.
The Bible teaches that the first man was a
civilized gardener; Evolution, that he was a
savage brute.
The Bible teaches that man’s moral nature has
degenerated through sin; Evolution, that “W hat
we, in these days of spiritual maturity call greed,
brutality, and lust, were in the beginning of our
race our very salvation.”
[ HU
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The Bible teaches that man is lost and needs a
Saviour; Evolution, that man through science
can save himself.
The Bible teaches that “the strong ought to bear
the infirmities of the weak and not to please them'
selves”; Evolution, that might makes right, and
that it is the privilege of the strong to survive at
the expense of the weak.
The Great Pyramid stands as a witness against
materialistic evolution. It furnishes evidence that
the first man, instead of being a hairy primate just
down out of the trees, was the most perfect of all
mere men, the most knowing and the most exalted;
that the rare and special rapport with the supreme
intelligence, which for certain gracious purposes
was afterwards vouchsafed to the prophets, was
Adam’s normal condition; that the highest state of
mind and heart and such qualifications as best
fitted him for his earthly life and destiny were
realized in him as he came from the Creator’s hand.
No ugly walking ape or ignorant savage, tenant
of semi-tropic woods or musty caves, did God
behold and bless when He set Adam in the world
as the image of Himself and proclaimed him good.
It was sin that dragged man down from his exalted
beginning, so that nations have degenerated, just
as the proud races conquered by Pizarro and
[ H!]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Cortez have done. Compare Egypt today with the
Egypt that entombed King Tutankhamen in a
jewel'Studded casket of beaten gold!
So far as we are able to trace the history of man
from his works and remains, the Scriptural narra­
tive would seem to be borne out in every particular.
Everything that is known of the primeval peoples
show them coming upon the scene together, and
with a full-fledged civilization. Beginning with
modern Europe, we can trace man back to the
Middle Ages to Rome, through Rome to 750 years
before Christ, and then through the Greeks to the
Trojan W ar, about 1200 years before Christ. By
the aid of modem explorations and discoveries in
Mesopotamia, Egypt, Persia, Arabia, India, China,
etc., we are carried back to from 2800 to 3500
years before Christ. But there within a circle of a
few hundred years all traces of man disappear.
Some of the nations have claimed greater antiquity
but no monumental remains are to be found to
prove them any older than these dates.
Lepsius says, “The Builders of the Great Pyra­
mid seem to assert their right to form the com­
mencement of monumental history. To the Pyra­
mid of Cheops the first link of our whole monu­
mental history is fastened immovably, not for
Egyptian, but for universal history.” Professor
[ 146]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Smyth holds that “the world has no material and
contemporary record of intellectual man earlier
than the Great Pyramid.” Beckett Denison agrees
that this is "the earliest and largest of all the pyra'
mids.” Hales in his “Analysis,” Sharpe in his
“History of Egypt,” Bunsen in his “Egypt’s Place
in History,” and the best authors in general make
the same representation. There is no evidence
on earth known to man that ever a true pyra-
mid was built before the erection of the Great
Pyramid of Gizeh.
Here, then, is a fact to start with which utterly
confounds the ordinary laws in human affairs. The
arts of man, left to himself, never attain perfection
at once. A t all times and in all countries, there is
invariably a series of crude attempts and imperfect
beginnings first, and thence a gradual advance from
a less perfect to a more complete. Styles of archi-
tecture do not spring into existence like Minerva
from the brain of Jupiter, full grown and perfect
from the start. But here all the ordinary laws are
reversed, and the classic dream finds reality. As
with the beginning of our race, so with the pyra'
mids, the most perfect is first and what comes after
it is deteriorated. The Great Pyramid comes upon
the scene and maintains its grand superiority for'
ever, without any preceding type of its class
[ H7]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
whence the idea was evolved. Renan says, “It has
no archaic epoch.” Osborne says, “Without father,
without mother,” and as clean apart from all
evolution as if it had dropped from the unknown
heavens. W e can no more account for its appear'
ance in this fashion under ordinary principles
than we can account for a man without a special
divine intervention.
The evidences also are that the whole family of
Egyptian pyramids is made up of mere blind and
bungling imitations of the Great Pyramid. They
take its general form, but they miss its intellectu­
ality and take on none of their own. Not one of
them has any upper openings or chambers. These
upper openings, though the main features of the
Great Pyramid’s interior, were wholly unknown to
the copyists, and hence were not copied. The
downward passage and subterranean chamber were
known and could be inspected, hence these features
appear in all the other pyramids. It would be
difficult to conceive any more conclusive internal
evidence of mere imitation, or of the certainty that
the Great Pyramid is the real original of all pyra­
mids. (“A Miracle in Stone,” pp. 39-41.)
The sons of Adam were civilized men who from
the first tilled the soil and herded flocks. Before
Adam died man had musical instruments and
[ i« ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
worked in brass and iron. Before the flood he had
invented all the requisite tools and acquired the
skill and capacity to build a ship larger than the
Great Eastern. Noah, who came over the flood in
that vessel, still lived while one of his descendants
built four cities and laid the foundations of the
world’s first empire. A few hundred years later
Abraham appears as a highly civilised man, in a
world where established governments and great
kingdoms possessed all the appurtenances of a busy
and vigorous civilization. It is doubtful whether
man has left any memorials which can be absolutely
proven to be older than 3000 B. C. W ithin a few
hundred years after that date the existing remains
are numerous, and in all of them we find writing,
engraving, husbandry, government, vast architect
ture, science references, gorgeous clothing, elabo'
rate ornaments, metals, jewels, cities, temples, and
all the paraphernalia of a high civilization, just as
the Scriptures represent.
Professor G. W alter Fisk, Ph., D., of Oberlin,
in the March, 1928, “Homiletic Review,” writes:
“To discover a temple four thousand years old,
which had been buried for centuries, is sufficiently
exciting; but when that temple is a shrine in
ancient U r of the Chaldees, where Abraham
himself may have worshipped, the discovery be'
[ 149)
\
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
comes a front-page sensation. It is more than likely
that Abraham knew this Temple Gig-Par-Ku,’ and
in his youth he may have tried to find God there.
“Visitors at the British Museum last August
were intensely interested in the new exhibit
brought from ancient Ur of the Chaldees by the
expedition under the joint auspices of the Museum
and the University of Pennsylvania. These price­
less finds, the newest things in the Museum, fur­
nished the archeological sensation of the season.
The excavations which unearthed these treasures
were begun about a year ago (October 28, 1926)
and kept 180 men busy until February 19, 1927.
“Among other things discovered was a cemetery
which had graves on three levels, with centuries of
neglect between the three periods of interment. It
was possible to date these three periods quite
definitely by means of various objects interred with
the bodies, especially the cylindrical seals and other
clay records. The interments nearest the surface
date from 2800 to 2600 B. C. The second level
dates rather close to 3100 B. C., and far below this
layer is found the third, under a vast amount of
accumulated debris, that must be as old as 3500
B. C. The oldest bodies were partly cremated and
were wrapped in matting, with votive offerings
about the body. The later bodies were more care-
[ 1*0]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
fully interred, in wicker, wooden, or clay coffins.
“In one section, where parts of five streets have
been cleared, a high-class residence district was
unearthed which reveals a high stage of civilization.
It was a neighborhood of comfortable homes,
remarkably well built structures of burnt brick,
surviving well the ravages of time. These houses
are quite uniform in architecture, usually of about
twelve rooms each, ranged in two stories and built
about an open courtyard upon which all the sepa­
rate rooms open. There was a wooden gallery
above to gain access to the second-floor chambers,
and a roof sloping slightly inward, properly
equipped with gutters and drains. Each house
contains a reception room, kitchen, chambers,
servants’quarters, lavatories, etc., precisely as well-
equipped as the better-class homes in Bagdad today.
It is difficult to believe them so surprisingly old.
“W e find in the collection a striking number of
gold objects of lovely workmanship, indicating
considerable prosperity and a high state of general
culture. These include gold beads, elaborate pend­
ants, curious ornaments and even weapons of gold.
Perhaps the most beautiful single item is a remark­
able gold short-sword of perhaps eighteen inches,
with a blade two inches wide, a lovely lapis lazuli
hilt inlaid with gold, and an elaborate golden
[ m ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
scabbard with geometrical designs wrought in
open-work and lined with colored leather. It is one
of the oldest and finest examples of the goldsmith’s
art and dates undoubtedly from 3500 B. C. It is
as untarnished as if dated 1927 A. D., and quite
unstained by blood.”
Thus every archeological discovery confirms the
W ord of God.
Stone implements are found in Egypt, but there
is no evidence that they are any older than the
Great Pyramid—even today some tribes are still in
the stone age. The greatest and oldest of all
existing edifices of stone was not built with chipped
stone saws and bone mattocks. Iron and steel were
required, which in turn required furnaces and art
and high civilisation to produce them. W e know
that iron tools were used in the Great Pyramid’s
construction, for one was found by Colonel
Howard Vyse embedded in the cement where no
opening had ever existed before. It is a large piece
and may be seen in the British Museum, proving
the high civilization of the people who used it.
No system of wedges or inclined planes would
enable the huge stones forming the roof of the
Ring’s Chamber to be put in position. Some kind
of hoisting machinery must have been used. The
coffer or chest in the King’s Chamber, though it
[ 152]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
has been shamefully chipped and defaced by gem
erations of visitors and guides, is still sufficiently
whole to determine its exact proportions and show
that it was sawn from a single huge block of red
granite and hollowed out by drilling and chiseling,
which shows that the builders of the pyramid had a
knowledge of working extremely hard substances
such as was not known to us until the invention
of diamond drills in 1878. (Seiss.)
Discipulus has pointed out that this coffer must
have been sawn out with bronze saws, set with
sapphire teeth and hollowed by means of drills set
with jewels and rotated with such force under
great vertical pressure that the teeth have actually
cut regular spiral lines as the drill descended into
the granite. This fact clearly suggests that they
must have possessed powerful machinery of some
kind to drive these saws and drills.
That the ancients possessed a knowledge of
metallurgy and construction fully up to our own is
proved by the fact that in Solomon’s time the two
pillars of brass (I Kings 7:15) were immense cast'
ings weighing from forty to fifty tons each, while
the sea of molten metal was even larger. It is no
exaggeration to say that the foundry work involved
in casting such huge pieces as these without flaw
and in one operation would be quite beyond the
[ 153 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
power of any foundry today to produce, as all
castings of such size are cast in parts which are
afterward fused or welded together.
Day says, “The early Egyptians possessed iron
mines and furnaces,” and goes on to prove his
assertion by citing the fact that Mr. Hartland
nearly a hundred years ago discovered not far from
Wady Maghara among the Sinaitic mountains the
colossal remains of iron works and furnaces belong­
ing to the ancient kings of Egypt, and what is more
remarkable, he found in the immediate neighbor­
hood of the gigantic piles of ancient slag a tablet
containing the Cartouches of Shufu (Cheops), the
same as discovered by Colonel Vyse in the hidden
chambers of construction above the King’s
Chamber. And all this was in the very period
which is put down by the progressive develop­
ment philosophy as the stone age of man’s infancy
and savagism!
So-called modernism belongs in the same cate­
gory with Evolution. It is a rehash of the agnostic
philosophy that plagued the early spiritual and
mystery schools. There is not a new thing in it. It
borrows its denial of the inspiration of the Bible
from Neoplatonism, which “assailed the Scriptures
and endeavored to prove that they are not worthy
the inspiration claimed for them.” It borrows its
[ 154 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
denial of original sin from Pelagius, and like him
insists that “since faith has become formal and
dead, all men need is an earnest moral character.”
From Arius and the Ebionites, modernism borrows
its denial of the essential Deity of Jesus. From
Pyrrho, Lucian, Celsus, and the other skeptics, its
ridicule of the Virgin Birth, the miracles, resurrec'
tion, and Second Coming of our Lord; and from
Gnosticism its denial of the Blood Atonement and
physical resurrection of Christ. It denies the
inspiration and authority of the Scriptures, as says
Professor Lewis: “W e understand as our fore'
fathers had not yet occasion to see that the Bible
is not now, and has not been in the past, an
authority in any real sense of the term.” “The
Christian Century,” the ablest advocate of modern'
ism in America, says that, “Fundamentalism and
Modernism are two different religions. The former
teaches that salvation is conferred by God’s Grace
through Jesus Christ; the latter, that salvation is
obtained by one’s own merit. The two are in
hopeless conflict.” Of the first, either Jesus Christ
was miraculously born, or He was not. He was the
Son of God in a unique sense as no other person
has been or ever will be, or He was not. Jesus
Christ made expiation for our sins, or He did not.
He came out of the grave alive in His own body, or
[ t» ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
He did not. He is either coming back to this world
again personally, or He will not. If none of these
claims are true the New Testament lies, and the
writers of the New Testament were a pack of
liars, and the church, with its ministers, mission'
aries, members, teachers, schools, literature, and
leaders, has been living through the centuries
in a lunatic’s paradise. (“Our Supreme Peril,”
Francis, p. 10.)
It is a matter of very grave consequence for the
public school of today to ignore religion, for the
public school includes practically every other
sound human interest except religion.”
Roosevelt was right in saying, “A man educated
in mind and not in morals is a menace to society.”
Judge John F. McIntyre of the Court of General
Sessions, New York City, one of the most brilliant
and distinguished criminal court judges in the
United States, says, “Of the reasons for the reck'
lessness and criminal tendencies of youth, the lack
of religious training so far outdistances all others
that it stands alone.” It is a lamentable fact that in
far too many institutions of learning, sex impurity
is being encouraged through the study of cer'
tain text'books on Freudism, social hygiene,
psycho-analysis and sociology. Parents, religious
leaders, and all who care for the future of
[ 156]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
our fair land should investigate and put a stop tc
such misuse of public funds and the teaching
profession. For whatsoever is sown in the minds
of the youth of today will most certainly bear fruit
in the life of the nation tomorrow.
Modernism denies the necessity of regeneration,
insists that “the gospel as preached by Paul appeals
to a state of mind that, among civilized peoples at
least, has forever passed away,” and that the world
outlook was never brighter than it is today.
And so by their impiety, blindness, and wib
ful unbelief, men make preparation for the
inevitable conflict.
One of the most striking features of the Great
Pyramid’s prophetic symbolism is the fact that the
builders not only left the subterranean chamber in
an utterly chaotic condition in order to symbolize
the awful state of Satan’s counterfeit kingdom, but
they dug a pit thirty'four feet deep to represent the
pit mentioned in Revelation 20:1-3: “And I saw
an angel come down from heaven, having the key
of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.
And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent,
which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a
thousand years, and cast him into the bottomless
pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that
he should deceive the nations no more, till the
[ 157]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
thousand years should be fulfilled; and after that
he must be loosed a little season”; and then
excavated a passage twenty-nine inches square and
exactly fifty-three feet long into the solid rock
opposite the entrance, in order to exhibit a measure­
ment of precisely one thousand inches (years)
from the north wall of the chamber to the end of
this twenty-nine inch passage. Could anything be
plainer or in more perfect harmony with the clear
teaching of the Scriptures?
And to all this, says Seiss, the conditions of the
heavens when the last of these pyramid inches are
counted off are correspondingly remarkable. The
Pleiades, which were on the meridian when the
pyramid was built, are then far to the east with
the vernal equinox at the same time precisely the
same distance from the meridian to the west, whilst
the distance from one to the other measures the
exact age of the Pyramid at that date. At that
time Alpha Draconis will again be on the meridian
below the pole, but then just seven times lower
than at the time of the pyramid’s building. This
final downwardness of seven times is strikingly
suggestive of the Dragon’s complete dethronement,
and what is still more remarkable, whilst Draconis
is on the meridian at this low point Aries, the Ram,
appears on the meridian above the Pyramid, with
11«3
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the line passing directly through his horns (see
zodiac). A more vivid astronomical sign of the
overthrow of Satan under the dominion of the
Prince of the Flock of God it is not possible to
conceive. It is as if the very heavens were pro-
claiming that then the Ever Living Lamb takes His
great power and enters upon His glorious reign.
(“A Miracle in Stone,” p. 153.)
This chamber is situated at the fiftieth course of
masonry, about 150 feet from the ground. The
workmanship of this chamber is the finest ever
observed by the eye of man. It is thirtydour feet
long, seventeen feet wide, and nineteen feet high,
of polished red granite from the Sinai mountains.
The four walls are built of exactly one hundred
stones varying in size, and the ceiling is formed of
nine enormous granite beams, which are the largest
stones in the Pyramid. One of them is five feet
wide, seven feet high, twenty-seven feet long, and
weighs seventy tons. (How did the builders man-
age such a weight?) This chamber with its empty,
lidless coffer, symbolic of the resurrected life of the
saints (see Revelation 20:4) represents the mil-
lennial reign of Christ. It is the chamber of fifty.
Its measurements and proportions all speak of the
fiftieth year, the year of Jubilee, when every
burden was lifted, every debt cancelled, every
[ H9]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
slave set free, and every homestead returned to its
original owner (Leviticus 25); that time of
universal prosperity and rejoicing which God
Himself gave to His people, not only to enjoy
but to prefigure the coming Golden Age.
V V V
[ 160}
C h a p t e r XIII.
THE NEW AGE
The age of universal brotherhood and peace, has
been the dream of man and the song of the prophets
since our first parents were driven out of paradise
because of sin. That glorious age when “the wolf
shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie
down with the kid, and the calf and the young lion
and the fatling together, and a little child shall lead
them. When the sucking child shall play on the
hole of the asp and the weaned child shall put his
hand on the cockatrice den, and they shall not hurt
nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth
shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the
waters cover the sea.” (Isaiah 11:6). “When the
ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to
Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their
heads, when they shall obtain joy and gladness, and
sorrow and sighing shall flee away.” (Isaiah
35:10.) And the mountains and the hills shall
break forth before you into singing, and all the
trees of the fields shall clap their hands. Instead
of the thorn shall come up the fir tree and instead
[ 161 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
of the briar shall come up the myrtle tree, and it
shall be to the Lord for a name for an everlasting
sign that shall not be cut off.” (Isaiah 55: 12, 12.)
“And the kingdom and dominion and the greatness
of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be
given to the people of the saints of the Most
High whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom
and all dominions shall serve and obey Him.”
(Daniel 7:27.)
Some who have made a careful study of the
inter-relationship of the planets believe that history
moves in great cycles of about two thousand years
each. They insist that each age or cycle exhibits
some characteristic peculiar to the starry sign
under which it moves. They point out that during
the last two thousand years man has completely
conquered water. He cables his messages through
it, and transforms it into steam which he uses to
drive his submarines under it and his great liners
over it. He uses it in hydraulic jacks, forces it to
generate electricity for him, and freezes it to keep
him cool in the summer. And now in the begin­
ning of the air age he has liquefied the atmosphere,
achieved aerial navigation, and by means of the
radio hurls his voice over mountain ranges and
across the stormy seas.
[ >62]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Satan is called the Prince of the Power of the
Air, but Christ died to destroy his power and is
coming to bind him, cast him into the abyss, and
usher in “the times of the restitution of all things
which have been spoken by the mouth of all the
prophets since the world began.” (Acts 3:21.)
W e are doubtless approaching the Great Tribu-
lation. When it will begin we do not know, but
one thing is certain: beyond it lies the glorious age,
when every swamp shall be drained, every desert
irrigated, every river bridged, and all the resources
of God’s earth shall be unlocked for the use of man.
When mankind shall no longer toil in the fear of
an old age of want and privation, but every one
shall have the opportunity to do the work he loves
—the work God fitted him to perform; and every
want shall be supplied; when college halls shall be
wide open to all, and undreamed of opportunities
shall beckon on every hand. When the nations of
earth shall live together in love as one great
cooperating family, and Jesus Christ, the only
begotten Son of God, shall be the King, and
Brother, and Friend, of all.
These, my friends, are some of the glorious pros'
pects that this wonderful Jubilee Chamber opens
to the view of those who are willing to think,
understand, and believe.
[ 163 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
But the Great Pyramid does not stop here. It
goes right on to a final transcendant consumma­
tion. Those who have made the most careful study
of this great structure are convinced that there
must be another undiscovered chamber larger and
more beautiful than any of the others, on about the
one hundredth course of masonry—a magnificent
chamber which symbolizes heaven.
When the Saviour left the earth, He said, “I go
to prepare a place for you.” Abraham looked for
a “permanent city.” Paul spoke hopefully of a
“building of God”—a “house not made with
hands, eternal in the heavens." John beheld and
wrote of “that great city, the heavenly Jerusa­
lem,” of which the church has ever sung with
fondness and delight.
Seiss suggests that since the Queen’s Chamber
stands on the twenty-fifth course of masonry, the
King’s Chamber on the fiftieth, to make up the
complete count there would have to be a third on
the hundredth course, corresponding to the third
heaven. The apocalypse, that book of the consum­
mations, seems also to call for such a chamber. As
the seven churches are found in the Grand Gallery,
and the judgment dispensations in the anteroom
leading to the Granite Chamber, and the Great
Tribulation is symbolized by the passageways to
[ 164]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
and from this antechamber, there would seem to be
need for another and higher compartment to
answer to the heavenly Jerusalem which the apoca-
lypse introduces as the crown of all. The piles of
ancient rubbish from the building of this pyramid
which cover the breast of the hill also add their
indications of another chamber of grander materials
than the ones we have described, and higher up in
the edifice. After a rain, Professor Smyth paced
about among the gutters which the wash cut into
those piles of chips and splinters of stone to see
what he could find. Toward the top of the heap
and just in front of it, though at a great distance
from the Pyramid's entrance portal, he found
frequent splinters and fragments of green and
white diorite.
This is a compact, very hard crypto-crystalline
formation of whitish color, speckled with black or
greenish black, suggesting the emerald rainbow and
crystal sea of Revelation 4:3-6. It is the material
of which the celebrated stone statue now in the
Boolak Museum is cut. It is not native to the pyra­
mid region, and could only have been brought there
from afar, while the number of chips and fragments
intermixed with the earth and other offal of the
process of this building would indicate some exten­
sive use of that excellent material in this structure.
[ 165]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Their occurrence near the top of the farthest
distant of these piles from the pyramid would
show that the use made of this rock was high up
in the edifice and toward its completion, but in
none of the present openings has anything been
found made of diorite or any stone resembling it.
Therefore Professor Smyth, in debating over these
fragments, said, “I was compelled to gaze up at the
pyramid with its vast bulk and believe that there
is another chamber still undiscovered there, and
one which will prove to be the very muniment
room of the whole monument.” Of course this is
only a hypothesis, a theoretic persuasion which
needs to be tested by further exploration, but it
rests on considerations sufficiently strong to beget
the belief that it will be verified in fact. Hence I
have had the place and position of such a room
indicated on the chart.”
And so, my friends, the Great Pyramid meets
every test, and proves itself in perfect agreement
with God’s Book and His stars. It illuminates the
distant past, reveals our divine origin, confirms our
faith, establishes our priceless heritage, and draw­
ing aside the veil, pours a flood of golden light
upon our glorious future. Therefore, take heart,
look up, and lift up your heads, for atheism, evolu­
tion, and modernism are delusions which shall
[ 166 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
shrivel and disappear before the blazing glory of
our all-conquering Christ, while God's Word,
written in the stars, built into the Great Pyramid,
and inscribed upon the sacred pages of the Bible,
shall stand forever!
THE STONE WITNESS
In a dark, dreary land.
In a wilderness lone,
In a desert of sand
Stands the Witness of Stone.
So ancient, so vast,
So majestic its plan,
It speaks of the past—
Of a strength not of man.
So perfect the whole,
So true the design,
It speaks to the soul
Of a Builder divine.
Behold how it towers
In its grandeur alone!
“God’s ways are not ours,”
Saith the Witness of Stone.
It is awful to go
When the world is asleep.
And stand ’neath the glow
Of the star-studded deep,
And gaze at that tower
With its secret unknown—
For great is the power
Of the Witness of Stone!
[ 167]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
They have scoffed at the Truth
Which is written in ink;
They have deemed it uncouth
For the brain which can think;
But they will awake
When they see it defined
In figures which make
An appeal to the mind!
The Book of the soul,
The Book of the heart—
“There is naught on that scroll,”
Say the shrewd or the smart.
And so there must be
A witness for such—
A thing they can see,
And a thing they can touch.
'Tis a book for the wise,
For the meek and the just;
’Tis a chart for the eyes,
Long clouded by dust;
’Tis a proof for the sage,
Whose god is the known;
There is truth for the age
In this Witness of Stone.
■Grace B. Bronough.
C h a p t e r XIV.
RECENT FULFILLMENT OF THE
PYRAMID’S PROPHETIC SYMBOLISM
It is now five years since the first edition of this
book was published. During this period many
startling events have transpired. Five years ago
pyramid scholars were predicting the beginning of
a world'wide depression. Today the world knows
from bitter experience how tragically accurate
their predictions were. The following quotation
from the (London) Morning Post is a case in
point. “In private paper circulated in January,
1930, Mr. D. Davidson predicted that Sunday,
August 23, 1931, would mark the beginning of a
period of economic decline in Britain as a conse-
quence of the insoluble economic problems of
Labor administration.'
Again on the 7th and 18th of July, 1930, and
a third time on July 11, 1931, this prediction was
published in graphic form. I myself read the July
11, 1931, statement in a (London) Morning Post
loaned to me by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, Imperator
of the Rosicrucian Order (AM ORC). My
[ 169]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
thought at the time was that here is an oppor-
tunity to actually test the reliability of the pyra-
mid prophecies.
I quote further. “On the Saturday preceding
this momentous Sunday, August 23, 1931, there
was no thought in the mind of any of the British
cabinet of the imminence of a crisis in the adminis-
tration but Sunday came and with its coming the
crisis developed. The king was called from his
vacation in Scotland and the first Sunday meeting
since the World W ar was held at No. 10 Down­
ing Street.” In the House of Commons,- Septem­
ber 8, 1931, the Prime Minister stated, “On Sun­
day August 23, the late government resigned.”
Regarding the causes of the present day condi­
tions, Mr. Davidson writes as follows: “The
symbolic indications in the Great Pyramid reveal
the true meaning and significance of modern move­
ments and tendencies.
“The year 1844 is indicated as beginning the
modern age of speed in communication and in
trade and industry and the year 1909 is indi­
cated as the beginning of the modern age of
accelerated progress in communication and in trade
and industry.
“The British Bank Charter Act of 1844 was the
stimulating factor in the speeding up of financial
C 170]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
procedure for the rapid flow of credit and a
consequent speeding up of trade and industry.
American mass production from 1909 onwards is
indicated as the stimulating factor in the accelera-
tion of trade and industry. The age of acceleration
is portrayed also as the age of armament with the
Great W ar as the first fruits of the age. As the
prophetic portrayal proceeds the acceleration of
the age is seen to move toward chaos. The robot
designed by man to be the servant of man gets
beyond man’s control and in turn makes man the
servant. The machine becomes the dictator, for to
meet the accelerated needs of mass production,
human needs are multiplied and supply and de-
mand are unhealthily stimulated. To feed the
machine rather than the masses ten stalks of corn
are made to grow where nature originally had
grown but one, and to meet the need of artificially
stimulated industry, commodities are ruthlessly
torn from the earth. This is indicated as having
been a single, consequently the machine running
out of control and its ultimate collapse.”
I quote further. “The Great Pyramid prophecy
indicates that it is to this particular time of tribula­
tion that the message of the Pyramid is addressed.
The ancient Egyptians called the antechamber
'The Chamber of Revelation’ and it is this chamber
[ 171 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
with its low hanging veil of granite that gives us
the key. This chamber is entered by a low, narrow
passage in limestone the initial and terminal points
of which define in the pyramid’s chronological
system the 4th and 5th of August 1914 and 10th
and 11th of November, 1918, representing British
participation in the World W ar.”*
The antechamber itself defines the period from
the 10th and 11th of November, 1918, to the 29th
and 30th of May, 1928; that is, from the end of
the World W ar to the beginning of the economic
tribulation. This period is a “truce in chaos
inserted to permit the Divine Revelation to unfold
itself.” This revelation is given in terms of the
symbolic indications that led to the revealing of the
analogous history of the early civilization of our
race, and portrays the period from 1909 to 1953
as the time of the end of the age of material civiliza-
tion. The fact that the now understood symbolism
*(N ote : It should be remembered that the message of the Great
Pyramid was directed to the descendants of the master builders
who gained power over Cheops and his subjects, commandeered
the resources of ancient Egypt and built the Great Pyramid.
There seems to be little doubt that these ancient master builders
were the progenitors of the Hebrew race. That Abraham, the
Father of the Israelites, was in direct descent from them and that
the scientific and prophetic message of the Great Pyramid applies
particularly to the Anglo-Saxon people of our own day because
as is becoming increasingly evident, we Anglo-Saxons are direct
descendants of the so-calied Lost Tribes of Israel. But more
of this later.)
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
of this part of the passages of the Great Pyramid
corresponds so perfectly with world events brings
to remembrance what the prophet Daniel was told;
namely, that “the words of this prophecy (con'
ceming the end of the age) are closed up and
sealed till the time of the end” and that when the
end time comes “none of the wicked shall under­
stand; but the wise shall understand.” (Dan 12:
10). Also in James 5:1-8 we have an accurate
description of the very conditions that plague the
age in which we live; i. e., the heaping together
of treasures in the hands of the few and the con-
sequent suffering of the many. It is a remarkable
fact that the teachings of the Zodiac, the sym-
bolism of the Great Pyramid, Old Testament
prophecy and the words of the Master agree in
declaring that the “present evil world order shall
be destroyed and in its place shall come a golden
age of universal brotherhood and peace.” Just
such conditions as obtain in the world today were
predicted by the Great Teacher who as recorded
in Luke 21:31 said:; “These things are the begin­
ning of travail” (birth pangs of the kingdom) and,
“when ye see these things come to pass know ye
that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.”
Daniel’s (600 B.C.) interpretation of the dream
of Nebuchadnezzar (Dan. 2:36-46; 7: 1-24; 8:
[ 173 1
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
1-25) is a mighty preview of the march of history,
the beginning of the grand culmination of which
the world is now witnessing. In this vision
Nebuchadnezzar saw a great image “whose bright'
ness was excellent and the form thereof terrible.”
The head was of gold, the breast and arms of silver,
the belly and thighs of brass, the legs of iron, and
the feet part of iron and part of clay. The kind
beheld “tell a stone cut without hands, smote the
image upon the feet and smashed the whole great
colossus into pieces like chaff of the summer
threshing floor which the wind carried away so
that no place was found for them and the
stone which smote the image became a great
mountain (symbol of government) and filled the
whole earth.”
The head of gold represented Nebuchadnezzar
with his empire; silver, the Medo-Persian empire;
brass, the kingdom of Greece, and the iron, Rome;
the feet part of iron and part clay, the final form
of the rejuvenated Roman empire.
In this connection, the following from the pen
of Ralph C. Norton, is significant:
“A Fascist law decrees that all government
documents shall now be stamped with two dates,
the one for international convenience, the other
marking the revival of the Roman Empire; so that
[ 174]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
this year appears as 1933 (Gregorian) and A, 11
(Fascist.) Does this new method of reckoning
time from the institution of Fascism indicate in
Mussolini’s conception a new era? Is this the
beginning of the day when Daniel 7:25 shall
be fulfilled?”
The stone cut without hands represents the
kingdom of the “Bootes of the Zodiac,” the Lord
of the Pyramid of the Ancient Egyptians, the
Messiah of the Hebrews, and the Christ of
the Christians.
The question very naturally arises, “W ill this
all-embracing, all conquering, stone kingdom be a
new creation or does it exist in some form today?"
Opinions differ in this regard but the author after
very careful study of the evidence is convinced that
this kingdom is in existence today, already bearing
sway over much of the earth and destined under
the leadership of “Him whose right it is" to be­
come universal.
Briefly stated the conclusion upon which this
belief and expectation is based is as follows: It is
evident that colonies of Israelites early migrated to
the “Islands of the W est" (British Isles), that
after the destruction of the kingdom of Israel by
the Assyrians B. C. 721, the northern tribes made
their way slowly northward and westward under
r i75]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
such names as the Massagetae 612 B. C. to 570
B. C.; Getae 612 B. C. to 100 A. D.; Ostrogoths
100 A. D. to 553 A. D.; Normans A. D. 1066;
Angles B. C. 100 to A. D. 553; Piets, Scotch,
Saxons—from Isaac’s sons, etc.; that after the fall
of Jerusalem B. C. 587 the prophet Jeremiah with
a remnant of the people of Judah (Jews) journeyed
to Egypt, (See Jer. 43: 4-8) and from there to
Ireland having with him Tea Tephi, one of the
daughters of Zedekiah, the last king of the Davidic
line to reign in Jerusalem. The prophet also took
with him “Jacob’s Stone” which may be seen today
under the coronation chair in Westminster Abbey
still bearing the worn iron rings by which it was
carried through all the wanderings of Israel.
According to tradition, the ships of Daniel com
veyed Jeremiah and Tea Tephi to Ireland where
Eochaid, an Israelitish prince had just been elected
Heremon of all Ireland. This prince promptly fell
in love with Tea Tephi and made her his queen.
Thus is was through her that the throne of David
was transferred to the British Isles where it exists
today—the throne of the mightiest empire of
earth. Certain it is that the present reigning house
of Britain is directly descended from King David.
The author has a large chart in his possession
which shows all the steps which lead down through
[ 176]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
the generations from the “Sweet Singer of Israel”
to the present David, Prince of Wales.
One of the very remarkable and significant de-
velopments of our day is the ever increasing
number of highly educated and influential people,
particularly of English descent who are whole'
heartedly accepting this long hidden truth, and are
pinning their faith for the world’s future upon it.
They are convinced that God will faithfully fulfill
all the promises which He made to Abraham,
Moses, David, and the prophets, and that through
His chosen people (Israel and Judah which are to
be united) “all the nations of the earth shall indeed
be blessed.” I would suggest that those who wish
to pursue this absorbing subject further write to
The Rational Message, Ltd., 6 Buckingham Gate,
S. W . I. London, England, for free literature.
The fact that Anglo-Saxon nations, and they
only of all the peoples of earth, fit into and fulfill
the promises made to Abraham (Gen. 17:1-8), the
predictions made by Jacob to his sons in his fare­
well interview with them before his death, (Gen.
48th and 49th chapters) the blessing wherewith
Moses blessed the Children of Israel before his de­
parture (Deut. 33, see particularly verses 13-18)
and the promises made by Jeovah unto David, (II
Samuel 7:12-18; II Chron. 21:7, etc.) would seem
1 177]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
to substantiate this view. When we consider that
the foundation of the jurisprudence of the Anglo-
Saxon people is the law of Moses, that they are
worshippers of one God, the “Jeovah" of the Old
Testament, the “Our Father” of the New, that
they have been and are the great colonizers of
history, that most of the inventions which have
transformed the world have been the fruitage of
Anglo-Saxon brains, that they have always been
successful in war and are today the dominating
nations of the earth, we are forced to sit up and
consider; and when we further face the fact of the
strategic location of the lands belonging to or con­
trolled by the Anglo-Saxon nations, the limitless
agricultural and mineral resources of these lands,
their climatic conditions, wonderful harbors,
mighty rivers and piled up mountain ranges, and
further that Britain is a commonwealth of nations,
as predicted, and our own country a union of
powerful states, how marvelously the Anglo-
Saxons of the 20th century do fit into the pro­
phetic pictures vouchsafed to the seers of the
long ago.
Consider again the march of world events and
their wonderful correspondence with Pyramid indi­
cations and the predictions of the Hebrew prophets.
Take, for instance, the World W ar: The de-
[1 7 8 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
liverance of Jerusalem by the English, when was
literally fulfilled Isaiah 31:5 (birds flying; i. e.,
British airplanes), the return of the Jews to their
native land (Isaiah 60:1, 3, 9), the discovery of
the fabulous chemical wealth of the Dead Sea
estimated at eleven hundred billion dollars, and the
beginning of its development; the destruction of
the Ottoman Empire which Dr. Gratton of Guim
ness, fifty years ago declared would, when it took
place, “be a trumpet blast proclaiming the day of
the Lord is at hand.”
Consider also the significance of “red” in our
modern world. Red revolution, red Soviet, red
propaganda (Rev. 6:4, 12:3.) Note the tremem
dous speeding up of transportation on land, water
and in the air (Nahum 2:3'4) “Chariots with fire
of steel or fire in steel (gas engines) which run
like lightning and seem like torches.” Read in
Isaiah 60:8 of “those who shall fly as a cloud
(dirigibles) and like doves to their windows” (air'
planes to their hangars). Consider the increase of
knowledge and travel (Dan. 12:14), the rediV
covery of the secrets of the past by means of
archeological research (Matt. 10:26), the mighty
strides of science and invention; the decadence of
religion, the rising tide of atheistic paganism, the
increase of lawlessness and dishonesty, together
[1 7 9 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
with the rise of powerful dictators when but a few
years ago we were fighting to make the “world
safe for democracy”. The following dated Berlin,
June 9, 1933, is an example of the spirit of dictator'
ship and of the dependence which dictators and all
others who wish to influence the future for good
or ill, now place upon the arbitrary regulation of
the education and training of children.
“Chancellor Hitler sternly warned German
parents that their children will be taken away and
put under the government’s wing if they are not
brought up as good Nazis.
“The warning was set forth at Erfurt yesterday
when the Chancellor addressed 120,000 persons,
60,000 of them members of his storm troops.
“ ‘Youth is our future,’ he said, ‘If the older
generation cannot get accustomed to us we will take
away their children and rear them in our spirit’.”
The talk of peace going hand in hand with
universal preparation for war, as said Rabbi
Friedman: “Thirteen years after the World W ar
we find that the nations of the earth spent last year
one billion for navies and more than four billion
to maintain the armies and navies of the world.”
The airplane has taken the place of the horse in
war. News dispatches tell of an Italian aviator
making 440 miles per hour. Jeremiah describes
[ 180]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Israel’s enemy, “Behold he shall come up as clouds,
and his chariots shall be a whirlwind; his horses are
swifter than eagles. Woe unto us,” Jer. 4:13. Was
Jeremiah looking forward to Armageddon when he
made this prophecy.
The steady increase of crime, the repudiation of
Prohibition and return of millions to the slavery
of the liquor traffic, the terror of the rich who are
increasingly the victims of kidnappers, world-wide
unemployment with its consequent distress, the
evidence of some all-powerful hidden hand upon
the throat of civilization and the fact that men’s
hearts have failed them for fear, (Luke 21:26) are
all facts that cannot be denied.
Some time ago Stanley Baldwin asked the ques­
tion, “W hat is it that underlies everything in
Europe today?” His answer is significant, “It is
the element of fear—fear of what may happen.”
All these things are signs of the times which
pyramid students shall regard with mingled feelings
of awe and anticipation—awe because of their
awful portent; anticipation because—“when ye
see these things come to pass know ye that the
kingdom of God is at hand” (Luke 21:31)—the
kingdom of brotherhood, peace, and prosperity
foretold by all the “holy prophets since the world
[ 1811
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
began.” (Acts 3:19-21). The kingdom which is
humanity’s one sure and glorious hope.
Bearing upon the astonishing discoveries and
achievements of the last five centuries, there is a
curious bit of quaint verse that comes down to us
from the 15th century known as Mother Shipton’s
Prophecy. This I take liberty of quoting because I
believe it is apropos and that my readers will
appreciate it. Mother Shipton was bom in Nor­
folk, England, and died at Clifton, Yorkshire,
England 1449 A. D. W ith meter smoothed out
but sense left undisturbed, this remarkable poem is
reconstructed by F. M. Lehman:
A carriage without horse shall go
Disaster fill the world with woe
(Auto Accidents)
Around the world man’s thoughts shall fly
Quick as the twinkling of an eye
(Radio)
And water shall great wonders do
How strange and yet it shall be true
(Generated electricity and steam)
Through towering hills proud man shall ride
No horse or ass moved by his side
(Railroad tunnels)
Beneath the water man shall walk
Shall ride, shall sleep, and even talk
(Submarine)
[ 182 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
And in the air man shall be seen
In white and black as well as green
(Airplane)
In water iron then shall float
As easy as a wooden boat
(Iron ships)
Gold shall be found in stream or stone
In land that is as yet unknown
(Australia, Alaska, California)
All England’s sons that plough the land
Shall oft be seen with book in hand
(Bibles for all, acct. Printing Press)
A house of glass shall come to pass
In England, but alas, alas
(Crystal palace)
A war shall follow with the work
Where dwells the Pagan and the Turk
(Crimean War)
The states shall lock in fiercest strife
And seek to take each other’s life
(Civil War)
When north shall thus divide the south
The eagle build in lion’s mouth.
(Revolutionary War)
Then tax and blood and cruel war
Shall come to every humble door.
And now a word in uncouth rhyme
Of what shall be in future time
[ 183 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
For in those wondrous far off days
The women shall adopt a craze
To dress like man and trousers wear
And cut off all their locks of hair
They'll ride astride with blazon brow
As witches do on broomsticks now
Then love shall die and marriage cease
And nations wane as babes decrease
The wives shall fondle cats and dogs
And man live much the same as hogs
In nineteen hundred twenty-six
Build houses light of straw and sticks,
For then shall mighty wars be planned,
And fire and sword shall sweep the land
But those who live the century through
In fear and trembling this will do:
Flee to the mountains and the dens
To bog and forest and wild fens—
For storms will rage and oceans roar
When Gabriel stands on sea and shore;
And as he blows his wondrous horn,
Old worlds shall die and new be bom.
A brief summary of the events which those who
have made a careful study of the subject see pend'
ing should be somewhat as follows;
[ 184]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The rejuvenation of the old Roman Empire as
a ten kingdom confederacy under a powerful
dictator. This would include England with the
United States as an ally but would exclude Ger-
many (never in the Roman Empire) which it is
thought will be driven by circumstances to an
eventual alliance with Russia.
These great northern nations quite probably
assisted by the restless millions of the East will
invade Palestine (Read Ezekiel Chapters 38 and
39). Russia has always wanted an outlet to the
sea. The German Kaiser built a palace in the Holy
Land with the expectation of occupying it. The
central location, wonderful climate, and almost
limitless chemical wealth of Palestine make it a
prize of incalculable value. In a recent utterance
one of Britain's great men speaks of Palestine as
the "cock-pit of the next war." Prophecy locates
the final battle of the W ar of Armageddon in the
valley of Megiddo (Rev. 14:12-20; Zach, 14
chapt.) that vast battle ground where many of the
greatest conflicts of the past were decided. The
valley of Megiddo is today occupied by the
British who have also dredged the famous Bay of
Acre and made it a naval station for His majesty’s
ships. According to the students of pyramid indi­
cations and Hebrew prophecy, the battle of Arma-
[ 185]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
geddon will be characterised by divine intervention
in behalf of Israel, (Zech. 12:MO) and the
apocalypse of the Lord of the Pyramid (Rev. 19th
Chapt.) which results in the destruction of the
forces of evil and the imprisonment of the dragon
in the pit—as is so vividly symbolised by the sub-
terranean chamber of the Great Pyramid. It is a
curious thing that in the vision which George
Washington is said to have had at Valley Forge he
saw not only the Revolutionary W ar but the Civil
W ar, a final and great conflict in which America
is saved from destruction only by the appearance
of a mighty angel from heaven who puts a stop to
hostilities and ushers in the age of universal peace.
A t the conclusion of this great battle in which
the forces of heaven will take part, as they are said
to have done in certain battles of the World W ar,
the Lord of the Pyramid will be crowned universal
ruler of the world as foretold in the documents of
Daniel, Chapter 7:13'14. Then shall war cease
for, “he shall judge among the nations and shall
rebuke many people and they shall beat their
swords into plowshares and their spears into
pruning hooks; nations shall not lift up sword
against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more.” (Isa. 2:4.)
[ 186]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
The king’s chamber of the Great Pyramid with
its poh'shed granite, its significant measurements,
and its empty, lidless coffer, symbol of resurrection,
(Dan. 12:2-3) points conclusively to this coming
Golden Age, to the all-wise, all-loving and all-
powerful reign of the Lord of the Pyramid, the
glorious Messiah of the starry Zodiac and the
prophets of all ages. When all this takes place, that
oft repeated prayer “Thy kingdom come. Thy will
be done on earth” will be answered. Then shall
the morning stars sing together as in the beginning
and all the Sons of God shall shout for joy; for
heaven will proclaim that the “kingdoms of this
world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and
His Christ and He shall reign for ever and ever.”
(Rev. 11:15.)
Perhaps there are those of our readers who will
inquire somewhat as follows: When the kingdom
age is ushered in and the Lord of the Pyramid is in
full control of the world, will not life go on about
as usual and will not business of all sorts continue?
And if so, what changes are in prospect that shall
cause the "lion and the lamb to lie down together"
(Isa. 11:1-10) and “every man to sit under his own
vine and fig tree with none to make him afraid."
(Mica 4:4.) The answer is not far toseekfor if “the
love of money is the root of all evil” as we are told
[ 1 8 7 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
(I Tim. 6:10) then the money question must be
settled before there can be either lasting peace or
prosperity. In pursuance of this great objective,
there is evidence that the model state outlined in
the Mosaic documents will be the actual state
during the kingdom age and that the Sermon on
the Mount with its Golden Rule will be the basic
principle which shall govern human conduct.
During the reign of the Lord of the Pyramid, indi-
vidualism will come into its own for as H. G. Wells
suggests in his Outline of History, every individual
will have an opportunity afforded him for the
fullest possible development of all his talents. He
will be encouraged to do the things nature has best
fitted him to do and the reward will be in propor-
tion to the service rendered—not such reward as
would give one power to oppress others but public
recognition and honor together with the govern­
ment’s assistance to still greater achievement.
Under such a system discovery and invention will
go far beyond the wildest dreams of the present.
Poverty will be non-existent, war a thing of the
past, people will look back upon it as we do upon
the Inquisition and wonder why humans were ever
so blind and cruel. Vice and corruption, the use
of alcoholic beverages and narcotic poisons will be
things of the past because with universal abundance
t 188]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
there will no longer be profit in selling sin and as a
consequence human life will be greatly prolonged,
as sayeth the prophet, “They shall build houses and
inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat
the fruit of them, they shall not build and another
inhabit and they shall not plant and another eat—
for as the days of a tree are the days of my people,
and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their
hands.” (Isa. 65:21'22.)
During the kingdom age it will not be necessary
to become the property of the money lenders in
ordet to carry out a worthy project. The money
changers will be driven from the temple of the
state. They will no longer be able to make money
out of money without doing any useful work.
Usury will be a thing of the past just as under the
Mosaic system. Interest will not be charged for
the use of government resources. Gold will no
longer possess a fictitious value. Its value will
depend solely upon whatever objects of worth and
beauty can be made of it. Man will no longer use
the price and profit system but will create an
abundance of everything useful and beautiful for
all to enjoy each in his own individual happy way.
Inventors, manufacturers and merchants having
an abundance of everything themselves will be
under no necessity of meeting competition in a
[ 1 8 9 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
bitter struggle for existence and as a consequence
will vie with one another in the creation and dis­
tribution of things new and beautiful, counting the
public recognition of service rendered greater
reward than all the amassed wealth of the present.
During the reign of the Lord of the Pyramid the
machine will be man's slave and not his master. It
will be used increasingly in the production of all
that humanity needs or wants and because oppor­
tunity for unlimited education and individual
development will be the right and privilege of all,
and because fear will have been banished, war
destroyed, disease conquered and the temptations
to lie, cheat, and steal in order to survive elimi­
nated, people will find a thousand uses for their
leisure hours of which we of the present do
not dream.
In view of all this which is most certainly com­
ing to pass, could anything possibly be of greater
importance than the development of a character of
such rectitude and vital worth that the Creator of
the starry heavens (Ps. 19) the inspirer of the
Pyramid and the scriptures, the Almighty Planner
and Executor who upholds all this by the might of
his power, shall count us worthy of sharing the
glories of the kingdom with his all-conquering Son?
t 190]
C h a p t e r XV.
ANCIENT PYRAMID BUILDERS OF
THE AMERICAS
It occurs to me that a few words about the pyra'
mids of Mexico might be of interest to my readers
because there are evidences that Egypt and Mexico
were in some way connected in the long ago.
I quote from my book Both Sides of Evoliv
tion, Page 120.
“For hundreds of years the study of lost
Atlantis has thrilled men’s imaginations. Donnelly,
Elliott, Bacon and others have made it almost a
reality in their writings. Herman Schliemann, the
great German authority, has put himself on record
as saying: “I have arrived at the conclusion that
Atlantis was the cradle of civilization.” A further
confirmation of this conclusion is found in recent
archeological discoveries in Old Mexico. In the
May 17, 1923, Dearborn Independent there was
an article by Dr. William L. Stidger from which
I culled the following:
“ ‘Mexico has five distinct civilizations, traced
as accurately as if the written documents had been
handed down.
[ 191 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“ ‘The first proof of these five distinct civiliza­
tions is found in the excavations. Starting from
the surface of the earth and going down, which I
have seen the excavators do this past summer, each
civilization is found to have written its story as
clearly as if it had been written as the Bible says,
‘with a pen of iron, and with the point of a
diamond.’
“ T he second proof of these civilizations is
found in the figures that adorn the pyramids, in
which we find apparent the clearest possible Mon­
golian, Egyptian, Chaldean, Negroid, Hindu and
American Indian influences.
“ ‘The third proof of these distinct civilizations
and influences is seen in the painted, carved and
sculptured figures which are being recovered by
thousands. Everywhere you dig you find these
relics of an ancient people. Last July, as I was
writing this article in Mexico City, a young
American engineer was excavating for an iron
works near by, and discovered a cache of beautiful
vases, idols, heads and carvings. The great steam
shovel brought up invaluable gold relics at every
lift. The news spread like wild-fire, and the
government of Mexico sent officers post-haste to
stop the excavating. This find was so rich that it
[ 192]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
is estimated by archeologists to be worth mil-
b’ons of pesos.
“ T he Egyptian influence is apparent in every
shovelful of relics unearthed by the excavators, in
every pyramid uncovered (and there are hundreds
of them), in every piece of sculpture and every
carving on every idol.
“ The pyramids themselves may have been built
by Egyptians who came to Mexico after they had
finished the pyramids of Egypt, or by people who
went to Egypt after they had erected the great
pyramids of Mexico. The opinion has been ex­
pressed that they built the Egyptian pyramids first
and then came to Mexico. The Mexican pyramids
are of superior type and seem to have been built
by hands that were skilled and trained in such huge
construction work.
“ ‘In headdress, in form, facial features and in
other points through pyramid, idol, excavations
and carvings, the Egyptian influence is startlingly
obvious.
“ T hat Africa also contributed its imprint to
the civilization of the Mexican plateau seems
certain. In the faces of the unearthed idols and on
the carvings of the stones, the Negroid influence is
felt at every turn.
I 193]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
“ ‘I was present when Professor Niven un­
earthed an idol that looked precisely like the
American Negro.
“ ‘Mary Barton in her book, rmpressions of
Mexico, tells us what we all feel and have noted:
“ ‘Everywhere I was struck by the Mongolian
type of countenance among the people and by the
finding of thousands of vessels with Mongolian
features. This is also shown by the fact that the
people themselves still have Mongolian costumes.
One which I remember particularly is that of the
way in which the women dress their hair. It runs
down their backs in two long plaits, with false hair
and often shoe strings woven in. I have seen this
manner of hairdressing among the Tibetan
women often.
“ ‘The great pyramids of the Mexico Valley
show marked Chinese influence. The dragon there
had every characteristic of the Chinese dragon, a
great serpent with the Mongolian head. On the
great pyramids there are several of these serpents
which are fifty feet long, carved in solid granite.
“ ‘I have picked up out of the excavations of
Professor Niven hundreds of little idols with the
most apparent Mongolial features and headdress.
It is clear as if a voice had spoken out of the void
of the past centuries and said, ‘The Chinese came
[ 194]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
to Mexico in hordes ten thousand years ago,
crossing the Pacific over the Bering Strait, or
coming by way of lost Atlantis’.’ ”
I quote also from a splendid little book, The
Mystery of the Ages, by Robert W . Smith, Pyra'
mid Press, Salt Lake City, Utah, page 28:
“In Egypt the pyramids were all pointed at the
top and composed of rubble and mixed stones with
the exception of the largest, the Great Pyramid of
Giz,eh, which was the pattern for all the rest and
although this was composed of well fitted and cut
granite and marble and limestone, yet the top was
missing, leaving a flat platform on which the cap
stone should have been. The purpose of which is
explained in other pages of this book.
Other pyramids are shaped like those of Egypt
and we know that Joseph, who was sold into Egypt,
procured a choice part of the land of Egypt for his
father and brothers, namely, the land of Rameses
on the shores of the Nile near the present location
of Cairo not far from the Great Pyramid of Gizeh.
There are found so many pyramids of all sizes
in the southern part of the American continent,
that I shall describe only a few.
In Cholulu, is a pyramid 197 feet high and
measuring 1000 feet at each side of the base.
[ 19*]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Near Mexico City are the Pyramids of the Sun
and Moon. The former 187 feet high with spacious
stone steps of dressed stone, showing grooves worn
by the feet of centuries of travel over them. It is
composed of a series of five terraces.
Half a mile north of the Pyramid of the Sun is
the Pyramid of the Moon, 137 feet high and 450
feet square at the base, composed of volcanic rocks
faced with masonry and formerly covered with
cement or fine mortar.
Legend has it that each was adorned with a
golden image representing the sun and moon
respectively, but that the gold was taken away by
the Spaniards.
The Pyramid at Cholulu was flat on top and
was surmounted by a temple to the God Quetzal'
coatl, but this was destroyed and a Cathedral put
in its place by the Spaniards. A legend is prevalent
among the natives that is similar to that of the
tower of Babel.
This pyramid covers 42 acres of ground (the
Egypt Pyramid covers but 13 acres) and its four
sides face the cardinal points of the compass. The
platform on its truncated summit embraces more
than an acre. It is one of the oldest of American
prehistoric monuments and was evidently built by
the first known races on the American continent.
1 196}
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Its structure reminds one of the truncated pyra-
mids of Babylon.
Here Quetzalcoatl dwelt and Cholulu was once
the holy city, the Mecca or Jerusalem of the
ancient natives. Here it was that Quetzalcoatl
taught his followers righteousness and promised
that he would return to again reign over them.
The great pyramid of Izamal is peculiar in con'
sisting of two pyramidal piles of masonry, one on
top of the other, the base of the whole measuring
no less than 820 feet on each side and the first
platform measuring 650 feet.
The Pyramid at Uxmal, is considered the most
stately in form and proportions. It consists of three
stages and supports a very ornate temple. Accord'
ing to Stevens, the carved work is equal to the
finest of the Egyptians. W ith the best instruments
of modern time, he says, it would be impossible to
cut stone more perfectly. It presents the same
difficulty as at the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, near
Cairo, in regards to conveying great masses of
stone long distances through rough country and
raising them to great heights.
The cross is seen adorning the breasts of statues
and statuettes in Palenque, Copan, and other an'
cient cities of Guatemala, Nicaragua, and other
localities of Central America.
[ 1 9 7 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
W ho can doubt the relationship between the
ancient Egyptians and the ancient Mayas, when
the following facts are compared:
The ancient hieratic Egyptian alphabet and the
ancient Maya alphabet are much alike, and allow'
ing for centuries of separation it is easily under'
stood how the variation could come about, for the
old English characters of Chaucer’s day can hardly
be deciphered by the layman of today.
In his introduction to Desire Charney's book,
Mr. A. T. Rice says:
“South American Antiquities prove connection
between Israelites and the ancient inhabitants and
also a connection between Babylonian and Egyp'
tian Architecture and sculpture work with that of
the ancient American and Mexican Natives."
Desire Charney in his “Ancient Cities of the
New W orld” (1887) calls attention to the fact
that Native traditions refer to the building of a
great tower of refuge, which some writers have
construed to identify the ancient Americans with
certain of the builders of the tower of Babel who
were scattered over the earth after the confusion
of tongues. The aborigines of America have a
knowledge of countries across the seas inhabited
by the “white faces.”
[ 198}
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Lord Kingsborough's extensive work is a store-
house of analogies in support of the Hebrew theory
of the origin of American Natives.
Students of the languages of various Indian
tribes have maintained that many words are of
Hebrew construction.
In further support of the connection of the
Israelites with the archeological findings in Central
and South America, particularly in the ruins of
Chichen-Itza in Yucatan, T. A. Willard in his
description of the work of Edw. Herbert Thomp­
son, (“City of the Sacred Well”) describes on
page 36, a bas-relief in one of the Temples, with a
decided Jewish type of face, and Mr. Edw. Hunt­
ington in Harper’s Weekly refers to the Jewish
type of features of the modern Mayas.
In this book, Mr. Willard also calls attention to
the fact that he found many jade ornaments and
remarks that Jade is not indigent to any part of the
Americas, and relates an incident between Monte­
zuma and the Spaniards, in which the Aztec king
looked upon a few jade ornaments as being worth
untold quantities of gold.
Can it be that the Israelites when they despoiled
the Egyptians took their gold, silver, and jade
ornaments, and handed them down from father
to son?
C 199}
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
An Associated Press article dated May 1, 1931,
gives an account of the finding by Venturello (of
Turin, Italy) of an Indian Tribe known as the
Aruacos, in Magdalena, one of the largest states
of the Republic of Columbia.
This tribe has costumes and dress strikingly
similar to that of the Hebrews of Palestine. The
women wear veils and the men’s hats are similar
to the ceremonial Jewish Headgear. The men wear
their hair long and comb it carefully. Their clothes
are in the fashion of those people who live in Asia
Minor and of similar bright colors.
The ancients of all parts of Central and South
America seem to have had the same calendar,
which in its workings was so accurate that it is
stated, there would not be the loss of a single day
in 6000 years, while the Julian Calendar lost a
great many days in 1000 years and our own pres'
ent system will lose a day in three thousand years.
Briefly stated the ancient system was as follows:
The year consisted of 365 days divided into two
unequal parts; viz., 360 days or the year proper
divided into 18 months of 20 days each; and five
intercalated days which were added at the end of
the eighteenth or last month to complete the
365 days.
[ 200 ]
The Mystery and Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
Each of the 20 days of the month had its own
name; the numbering, however, was not from one
to 20 but from 1 to 13, beginning again with the
unit. It follows from this method that a day bear'
ing both the same name and the same number will
not recur until 13 months have passed. This gives
a cycle of 260 days, which appears to have been
more in use as a ceremonial or religious period than
the secular year of 365 days. The days were also
indicated by symbols.
The Toltec calendar was adopted by all the tribes
and divided the year into 18 periods of 20 days
each, adding five intercalary days to make up the
365 days of the year. And at the end of four years
they intercalated 6 days which proves they knew
of the leap year condition.
W hat a lot of interesting things there will be for
Real Students to learn during the ages which are
to come. God grant that we may live such lives
of faith and fidelity as to be worthy of the privfi
leges which shall be ours in Him.
T h e En d .
[ 201 ]
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described in
the following pages, and which may be purchased from the
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU, San Jose. California
V V V
[ 202 ]
Explanatory
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
V
NTICIPATING questions which may be asked
by the readers of this book, the publishers wish
to announce that there is but one universal Rosicru-
cian Order existing in the world today, united in its
various jurisdictions, and having one Supreme Coun­
cil in accordance with the original plan of the ancient
Rosicrucian manifestos.
This international organization retains the ancient
traditions, teachings, principles, and practical helpful­
ness of the Brotherhood as founded centuries ago. It
is known as the A n c ie n t M y s tic a l O rd e r R o sa e
C ru cis, which name is abbreviated for popular use
into AMORC. The North American jurisdiction of
this order maintains National Headquarters at San
Jose, California, with branches distributed throughout
the United States, Canada and Mexico. Those inter­
ested in knowing more of the history and present day
offerings of the Rosicrucians may have a free copy of
the book entitled, "The Wisdom of the Sages,” by
sending a definite request to Extension Librarian.
AMORC Temple, Rosicrucian Park. San Jose, Cali­
fornia.
[ 203 ]
V olume I.
Rosicrucian Questions and Answers
W ith Complete History
of the Order
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F.R.C.
V
T
HIS Volume contains the first complete, authentic history
of the Rosicrucian Order from ancient times to the present
day. The history Is divided into two sections, dealing with
the traditional facts and the established historical facts, and is
replete with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and fasci­
nating Incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference
and guide book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding
many mystical and occult subjects are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the
Rosicrucians were closed against any eyes but the high Initiates.
Even editors of great encyclopedias were unable to secure the
weird, fascinating facts of the Rosicrucian activities in all parts
of the world. Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like
a story from the land of the "Arabian Nights."
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions
dealing with the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes
of the Rosicrucian fraternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound
in silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
[ 204]
V o l u m e II.
Rosicrucian Principles for the
Home and Business
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F.R.C.
V
T
HIS volume contains such principles of practiced Rosicru­
cian teachings as are applicable to the solution of the
every-day problems of life in business and in the affairs of the
home. It deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill health,
the curing of many of the common ailments, and the attain­
ment of peace and happiness as well as the building up of the
affairs of life that deal with financial conditions. The book is
filled with hundreds of practical points dealing especially with
the problems of the average business man or person in business
employ. It points out the wrong and right way for the use of
metaphysical and mystical principles in attracting business,
increasing one's income, promoting business propositions, start­
ing and bringing into realization new plans and ideas, and the
attainment of the highest ambitions in life.
"Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business" Is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its fourth edition,
having had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not
only among members of the organization, who have voluntarily
stated that they have greatly improved their lives through the
application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons
outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by busi­
ness organizations and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk
cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
[ 2 0 J ]
V olume III.
Mystical Life of Jesus
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F R.C.
V
'HIS is the book that thousands have waited For—the real
J- Jesus revealed at last! It was in preparation for a number
of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt to secure a
verification of the strange facts contained in the ancient Rosi-
crucian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities
in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts
relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion,
resurrection, and ascension will astound and inspire you. The
book contains many mystic symbols, fully explained, original
photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large
chapters, beautifully printed, bound in purple silk, and stamped
in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every
student of mysticism and religion. It is one of the most talked-
about books ever written. Read it and be prepared for the dis­
cussions of it that you will hear among men and women of
teaming.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.25.
[ 206 ]
V o l u m e V .
“Unto Thee I G ra n t. . . ”
Revised by Sri. Ramatherio
V
T
HIS is one of the rarest. Oriental, mystery books known.
It Is translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and
Disciples of the Sacred College In the Grand Temple In Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago,
and was hidden In manuscript form from the eyes of the world
and given only to the Initiates of the temples In Tibet to
study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book con­
taining the rarest writings and teachings known to man with
the exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been
written about the teachings and practices of the Masters of the
Far East and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever
contained the secret teachings found in this book. This book is
divided into many parts, each part containing a large number
of sections or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weak­
nesses, sins, strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are
treated in detail with illuminating simplicity. The book is beau­
tifully printed and bound with stiff cover, and contains also the
strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to secure this
marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
[ 2 0 7 ]
V o l u m e V I .
A Thousand Tears of Yesterdays
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F.R.C.
V
H
ERE is a book that will tell you more about the real
facts of reincarnation than anything that was ever written.
It Is a story of the soul, and explains in detail how the soul
enters the body and how it leaves, where it goes to and when
it comes back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Far
East and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into
book form as a story before this book was printed. T hat Is
why the book has been translated into so many foreign languages
and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia.
Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — Alluring — Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to
leave it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals
the mystic principles taught by the Roslcrucians in regard to
reincarnation as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the
incarnations of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound with stiff cover, and worthy
of a place in anyone's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 85 cents.
[ 208 ]
V o l u m e V II.
Self Mastery and Fate with the
Cycles of Life
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F.R.C.
V
T
HIS book Is entirely different from any ever issued in
America dealing with the secret periods in the life of each
man and woman wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily
affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain
periods to bring success, happiness, health and prosperity into our
lives, and it likewise points out those periods which are not favor­
able for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does not deal
with astrology or any system of fortune telling, but presents a
system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental lands and
which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One reading of
the book with its charts and tables will enable the reader to see
the course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone to elimi­
nate “chance" and "luck," to cast aside “fate" and replace these
with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs
throughout the years. There is no magic in its system, but it
opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a remark­
able manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to
match other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage
paid, $2.00.
[ 209 ]
V o l u m e VIII.
Rosicrucian Manual
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F.R.C.
V
T
HIS practical book contains not only extracts from the
Constitution of the Order of Roslcrucians, but a complete
outline and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and
terminology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations
of the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects
taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of
the principles of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical
sketches of important characters connected with the work. There
are also special articles on the Great W hite Lodge and its
existence, how to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian
Code of Life with thirty laws and regulations, and a number of
portraits of prominent mystics including Master K. H., the
Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred
or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of
Rosicrucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary it
contains.
The "Rosicrucian Manual" is of large size, well printed,
beautifully bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The
fifth edition has been enlarged and improved in many ways.
Price, postage prepaid. $2.00.
[ 210]
V o l u m e IX.
Mystics at Prayer
V
TH E first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the
renowned mystics and adepts of all ages. By MANY
C1HLAR. F. R.C., Austrian Philosopher and Mystic.
The book "Mystics at Prayer" explains in simple language
the reason of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws in­
volved. You come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and its
full beauty dawns upon you. W hatever your religious beliefs,
this book makes your prayers the application not of words,
but of helpful, divine principles. You will learn the infinite
power of prayer. Prayer is man's rightful heritage. It Is the
direct means of man's communion with the infinite force of
divinity.
"M ystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed
on art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages,
sent anywhere, postpaid $1.00
[ i n ]
V o l u m e XI.
Mansions of the Soul
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F.R.C.
V
EINCARNATION I The world’s greatest disputed doctrine.
The belief in reincarnation has had millions of intelligent,
learned, and tolerant followers throughout the ages. Ringing
through the minds and hearts of students, mystics, and thinkers
have always been the words: "W hy Are We Here?" Reincar'
nation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred
literature and without verification. This book reveals, however,
in an astounding manner the many facts to support reincarnation.
Quotations from eminent authorities, from Biblical and Sacred
works substantiate reincarnation. This volume PROVES rein­
carnation. It places it high above mere speculation. This book is
without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring, enlightening
book ever written on this subject. It is not a fiction story but a
step by step revelation of profound mystical laws. Look at some
of these fascinating, intriguing subjects:
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul; Does
Personality Survive Transition?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma
and Personal Evolution; Religion and Biblical View-points;
Christian References; Between Incarnations; Souls of Animals
and the "Unborn;" Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully
printed, neatly bound, stamped in gold; it is a valuable asset to
your library, economically priced. Price per copy, postage pre­
paid, only $2.20.
[ 212 ]
V o l u m e XII.
Lemuria—The Lost Continent
of the Pacific
By W. S. Cerve
V
BENEATH the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of forgot­
ten civilizations. Swept by the tides, half buried in the sands,
worn away by terrific pressure are the remnants of a culture little
known to our age of today. Where the mighty Pacific now rolls
in a majestic sweep of thousands of miles, there was once a vast
continent. This land was known as Lemuria, and its people as
Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and de­
velopments of today. W e call them modern, but these ancients
and long-forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of as
future possibilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science
has gradually pieced together the evidences of this lost race, and
in this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling
chapters you have ever read. How these people came to be
swept from the face of the earth, except for survivors who have
living descendants today, is explained. Illustrations and explana­
tions of their mystic symbols, maps of the continent, and many
ancient truths and laws are contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the w e ird -
read this book—remember, however, this book is not fiction, but
based on facts, the result of extensive research. Does civilization
reach a certain height, and then retrograde? Is the culture and
progress of mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then
returns to start over again? These questions and many more are
answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living descend­
ants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at the bot­
tom of the Pacific. In the minds of these descendants is the
knowledge of the principles which in by-gone centuries made their
forbearers builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, “Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is
beautifully bound, well printed, and contains many, many illus­
trations. It is economically priced at $2.20, postpaid.
[ 2 1 3 ]
Volume XIII
1Technique of The Master"
T h e W ay of Cosm ic Preparation
By Raymund Andrea, F.R.C.
V
A
GUID E to inner unfoldment! The newest and simplest
explanation for attaining the state of Cosmic Conscious­
ness. T o those who have felt the throb of a vital power
within, and whose inner vision has at times glimpsed infinite
peace and happiness, this book is offered. It converts the in­
tangible whispers of self into forceful actions that bring real
joys and accomplishments in life. It is a masterful work on
psychic unfoldment.
It is well bound in cloth, with deckled and tinted edged paper.
Secure this treasure for yourself. Economically priced, postage
paid at $1.85.
[ 21 4 ]
HO W TO ORDER BOOKS
V
If your regular book dealer does not have these books in
stock, and you do not core to wait until he secures them for you,
you may save time by sending your order direct, with remit­
tance or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
R o s ic r u c ia n S u p p l y B u r e a u
ROSICRUCIAN PARK - - SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
