{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1840__finch___the_original_norwood_gipsy.pdf","mytitle":"The Original Norwood Gipsy","mylang":"de"}
■^oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo^
§
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
THE
ORIGINAL
P<DIBW<D<DID mw
OR, THE
FORTUNE-TELLER'S SURE GUIDE;
CONTAINING
EASY AND SIMPLE RULES
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
c
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
©
o
o
o
o
o
o
c
o
o
o«
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
ON
FORTUNE-TELLING BY CARDS ;
AND BY LINES ON THE HAND.
CHOOSING A HUSBAND BY THE HAIR.
THE BIRTH OF CHILDREN AND OTHER EVENTS.
EVIL AND PERILOUS DAYS.
THE SIGNS OF A GENEROUS PERSON.
THE SIGNS OF AN ILL-NATURED PERSON.
JUDGMENTS DEDUCED FROM THE NAILS.
PHYSIOGNOMY.
FORTUNE-TELLING BY MEANS OF THE GROUNDS OF
TEA OR COFFEE.
CHARMS AND CEREMONIES.
BY MARGARET FINCH.
QUEEN OF THE GIPSIES AT NORWOOD.
DERBY:
PUBLISHED BY THOMAS RICHARDSON.
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
g
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
©
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Q
o
©
o
o
©
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
©
©
o
©
o
o
o
o
o
©
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
^ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooqoooooooqooooooooo<5>
w
\ f
THE
ORIGINAL
NORWOOD GIPSY.
THE ART OF
FORTUNE-TELLING BY CARDS.
Take a pack of cards, shuffle and cut them two or three
different times, lay them on a table nine of a row; if a
man, he must choose one of the four kings to represent
himself; if a woman, she must select one of the queens :
then the queen of the chosen king, or the king of the cho¬
sen queen, will stand for husband or wife, mistress or lo¬
ver, of the party whose fortune is to be told, and the knave
of the suit for the most intimate person of the family ; re¬
member that every thing is within your circle as far as you
can count nine any way from the card that represents the
person, his wife, or her husband, and their intimate friend;
and also that the ninth card every way is of the greatest
consequence.
The Ace of Clubs promises great wealth, much prospe¬
rity in life, and tranquillity of mind.
The King of Clubs announces a man who is humane,
upright, affectionate, and faithful in all his engagements;
he will be happy himself, and make every one with whom
he has a connexion so, if he can.
The Queen of Clubs shows a tender, mild, and rather
amorous disposition, one who will probably yield her
maiden person to a generous lover before the matrimoni¬
al knot be tied; but they will be happy, love each other,
and be married.
The Knave of Clubs shows a generous sincere friend,
who will exert himself warmly in your interest and wel¬
fare.
The Ten of Clubs denotes great riches to come speedily
from an unexpected quarter, but it also threatens, that
you will, at the same time, lose some very dear friend.
The Nine of Clubs shows that you will displease some
THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY ;
of your friends, by too steady adherence to your own way
of thinking.
The Eight of Clubs shows the person to be covetous and
extremely fond of money; that he will obtain it, but it
will rather prove a torment than a comfort to him, as he
will not make a proper use of it.
The Seven of Clubs promises the most brilliant fortune,
and the most exquisite bliss that this world can afford; but
beware of the opposite sex; from these alone you can
experience misfortune.
The Six of Clubs shows you will engage in a very lu¬
crative partnership, and that your children will behave
well.
The Five of Chibs declares that you will shortly be mar¬
ried to a person who will mend your circumstances.
The Four of Clubs shows inconstancy for the sake of
money and change of object.
The Tray of Clubs shows that you will be married
three times, and each time to a wealthy person.
The Deuce of Clubs shows that there will be some un¬
fortunate opposition to your favourite inclination, which
will disturb you.
The Ace of Diamonds signifies a letter.
The King of Diamonds shows a man of fiery temper
preserving his anger, and seeking for opportunities of re
venge, and obstinate in his resolutions.
The Queen of Diamonds signifies that the woman shall
be fond of company, be a coquette, and not over virtuous.
The Knave of Diamonds, however nearly related, will
look mare after his own interest than yours, he will be
tenacious of his own opinion, and fly off if contradicted.
The Ten of Diamonds promises a country husband or
wife, with great wealth and many children; the card next
to it will tell the number of children : it also signifies a
purse of gold.
The Nine of Diamonds declares that the person will be
of a roving disposition, never contented with his lot, and
for ever meeting with vexations and disappointments.
The Eight of Diamonds shows that the person in their
youth will be an enemy to marriage, and thus run the
risk of dying unmarried ; but if they do marry it will be
late in life, and then it will be with a person whose dispo¬
sition is so ill assorted to theirs, that it will be the cause
of misfortune.
The Seven of Diamonds shows that you will be torment¬
ed by the infidelity of your conjugal partner or lover, and
squandering your substance.
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER'S SURE GUIDE. 5
The Six of Diamonds shows an early marriage and pre¬
mature widowhood, but that your second marriage will
probably make you worse.
The Five of Diamonds shows that you will have good
children who will keep you from grief.
The Four of Diamonds shows the inconstancy of the
person you will be married to, and gr^at vexation to your¬
self through the whole course of your life.
The Tray of Diamonds shows that you will be engaged
in quarrels, law-suits, and domestic disagreements; your
partner for life will be a vixen and of an abusive temper,
fail in the performance of the nuptial duties, and make
you unhappy.
The Deuce of Diamonds shows that your heart will be
engaged in love at an early period : that your parents
will not approve your choice; and that if you marry
without their consent, they will hardly forgive you.
The Ace of Hearts signifies feasting and pleasure ; if
the ace is attended by spades, it foretells quarrelling; if
by hearts, it shows affection and friendship; if by dia¬
monds, you will hear of some absent friend ; if by clubs,
it denotes merry-making.
The King of Hearts shows a man of a good-natured
disposition, rather hasty and passionate, rash in his un¬
dertakings, and very amorous.
The Queen of Hearts denotes a woman of fair complex¬
ion, faithful, and affectionate.
The Knave of Hearts is a person of no particular sex,
but always the dearest friend or nearest relation of the
consulting party; you must pay great attention to the
cards that stand next to the knave, as from them alone
can you judge whether the person it represents will fa¬
vour your inclinations or not.
The Ten of Hearts shows good-nature, and many chil¬
dren ; it is a corrective of the bad tidings of the cards that
stand next to it; and if its neighbouring cards are of good
import, it ascertains and confirms their value.
The Nine of Hearts promises wealth, grandeur, and
high esteem: if cards that are unfavourable stand near
it, you must look for disappointments and a reverse; if
favourable cards follow these last at a small distance, ex¬
pect to retrieve your losses, whether of peace or of goods.
The Eight of Hearts is a sign of drinking and feasting.
The Seven of Hearts shows the person to be fickle and
of an unfaithful disposition, addicted to vice, inconti-
6 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY ;
nent, and subject to the mean art of recrimination to ex¬
cuse themselves, although without foundation.
The Six of Hearts shows a generous, open, and credu¬
lous disposition, easily imposed upon, and ever the dupe
of flatterers, but the good-natured friend of the distressed:
if this card comes before your king or queen, you will
be the dupe; if after, will have the better.
The Five of Hearts shows a wavering and unsteady dis¬
position, never attached to one object, and free from any
violent passion or attachment.
The Four of Hearts shows the person will not be mar¬
ried until very late in life, and that this will proceed from
too great a delicacy in making a choice.
The Tray of Hearts shows that your own imprudence
will greatly contribute to your experiencing the ill-will of
others.
The Deuce of Hearts shows that extraordinary success
and good fortune will attend the person ; though if unfa¬
vourable cards attend, this will be a long time delayed.
The Ace of Spades totally relates to the affairs of love,
without specifying whether lawful or unlawful; it also
denotes death, when the card is upside down.
The King of Spades shows a man ambitious and suc¬
cessful at court, or with some great man who will have it
in his power to advance him; but let him beware of a re¬
verse.
The Queen of Spades shows a person that will be cor¬
rupted by the great of both sexes; if she is handsome,
great attempts will be made on her virtue.
The Knave of Spades shows a person, who, although
they have your welfare at heart, will be too indolent to
pursue it with zeal, unless you take frequent opportuni¬
ties of rousing their attention.
The Ten of Spades is a card of bad import: it will, in a
great measure, counteract the good effects of the cards near
you.
The Nine of Spades is the worst card in the whole pack;
it portends dangerous sickness, a total loss of fortune, cru¬
el calamities, and endless dissension in your family.
The Eight of Spades shows you will experience strong
opposition from your friends, or whom you imagine to be
such; if this card comes close to you, abandon your enter¬
prise, and adopt another plan.
The Seven of Spades shows the loss of a most valuable
friend, whose death will plunge you into very great dis¬
tress.
7
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER’S SURE GUIDE.
The Six of Spades announces a mediocrity of fortune,
and very great uncertainty in your undertakings.
The Five of Spades will give very little interpretation of
your success: it promises good luck in the choice of a
companion for life, that you will meet with one very fond
of you, and immoderately attached to the joys of Hy¬
men; but shows your temper rather sullen.
The Four of Spades shows speedy sickness, and that
your friends will injure your fortune.
The Tray of Spades shows that you will be fortunate in
marriage, but that your partner will be inconstant, and
that you will be made unhappy thereby.
The Deuce of Spades always signifies a coffin, but who
it is for must depend entirely on the other cards that are
near it.
TELLING FORTUNES BY LINES IN THE
HAND.
Observe always to choose the left hand, because the
heart and brain have more influence over it than the
right hand ; and observe further, it is better to examine
these fines when the body is in good health, for then they
appear full.
By this the reader will see that one of the lines, and
w'hieh indeed is reckoned the principal, is called the lim
of life; this line incloses the thumb, separating it from
the hollow of the hand. The next to it, which is called
the natural line, takes its beginning from the rising of the
middle finger. The table line, commonly called the line
of fortune, begins under the little finger, and ends near
the fore finger. The girdle of Venus is another line so
called, begins near the joint of the fore finger, and ends in
the middle finger. The line of death is a counter line to
the line of life, and is by some called the sister line.
There are also lines in the fleshy parts, as in the ball of
the thumb, which is called the mount of Venus, which
are each governed by the several planets, and the hollow
of the hand is called the place of Mars.
If the lines which are in the middle of the hand, anr
are called the table lines, are broad and fair without being
broken, it is a sure sign the parties will lead a happy and
a comfortable life.
If the line from the wrist goes straight up to the little
finger, it is a better sign than if broken, for then it de¬
notes the party will live to a good old age; but, on the
8 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY ;
contrary, should the line want continuity, they are in
danger of sudden death.
If the line of life, which is that which runs from the
wrist by the ball of the thumb, and ends under the fore
finger, is clear, and ends with breaks, it denotes posses¬
sion, prosperity, and happy old age. Round lines, like
semicircles, on the inside of the tips of the fingers, pro¬
mise houses, land, and inheritance. As many lines or
crosses as a woman has in her wrist, so many children
she may expect to have. I
If the middle, or table lines, in the hand, are very nar¬
row and contracted, it is a sign of poverty and crosses in
the world. If a crooked line goes through the table line,
it is a sign of death by accident or violence; but ifit runs
straight even through, it is a good sign.
TO CHOOSE A HUSBAND BY THE HAIR.
Black. Stout and healthy but apt to be cross and sur¬
ly; if very black and smooth, and a large quantity, will
be fond where he fixes his attachment, not addicted to
lewdness, make a good husband, and take care of his fa¬
mily ; but, if short and 'curly, will be of an unsettled tem¬
per, given to drinking, somewhat quarrelsome, will show
much fondness at first paying his addresses, but be un¬
steady and forgetful afterwards.
White, or Fair Hair. Will be of a weak constitution,
rather stupid, very fond of music, will cut no great figure
in the world, very moderate in his amorous wishes, but
get many children.
Yellow. Inclinable to jealousy.
Light Brown. Neither very good nor very bad, mid¬
dling in all respects, rather given to women, but, upon the
whole, is a good character.
Auburn, or Pale Brown. Are generally very passionate
and hasty, very superstitious, much given to the delights
of love, extremely jealous, which unhappy passion is ge¬
nerally the bane of their lives.
Dark Broivn. Sensible, good-humoured, careful, and
attentive to business, generally makes a good husband.
Very Dark Brown. Of a robust constitution and of a
grave disposition, but good-tempered and sensible, very
tone! of his wife, though he may change now and then
and go astray.
Red. Will be artful, cunning, and deceitful, and much
9
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER’S SURE GUIDE,
given to wenching ; loves a smock so well, that his wife
will scarcely keep one to her back; but is generally of a
lively temper.
THE BIRTH OF CHILDREN, AND OTHER
EVENTS,
With respect to the Moon's Age, and Day of the Week.
To be born on the first day of a new moon, portends
their life shall be pleasant, with an increase of riches.
A child bom on the second day will grow apace and
be inclined to lust, of either sex. It is lucky on this day
to send messages of trade by land, and sow seed.
A child born on the third day will be short lived. Ne¬
ver begin any work of moment on this day. Thefts com¬
mitted on this day will soon be discovered.
The fourth day is bad. Persons falling sick on this day
rarely recover, and the dreams will have no effect.
The fifth day is favourable to begin a good work, and
the dreams will be tolerably successful; the child born on
that day will be deceitful and proud.
The sixth day the dream will not immediately come to
pass; and the child born will not live long.
The seventh. Do not tell your dreams on this day, for
much depends on concealing them; if sickness befalls
you on this day, you will soon recover; the child born
will live long, and have many troubles.
The eighth day the dream will come to pass, and is a
very prosperous day.
The ninth day differs very little from the former; the
child bom on this day will arrive at great riches and ho¬
nour.
The tenth day is likely to be fatal: those who fall sick
will very rarely recover, but the child born on this day
will live long, and be a great traveller.
The eleventh is a day to be married, or commence a
journey. A child born at this age of the moon, will be
healthy, handsome, and of good constitution, with a par¬
ticular mole on its head. If a female, will be remarkable
for wisdom.
On the twelfth day, the child born will meet every af¬
fection, but be of a bad temper. This is a very unlucky
day, particularly to those falling sick.
A child born on the thirteenth day will be unfortunate
both in temper and estate ; though a good day for mar-
a 5
10 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY
riage, or to find things that have been lost. Persons im¬
prisoned this day will soon have their liberty.
A child, whose nativity is on the fourteenth day, will
die as a traitor. An excellent day to ask a favour. Take
physic this day.
The fifteenth day is very unfortunate. A good day to
find any thing that is lost.
The child bom on the sixteenth day, will be unmanner
ly and unfortunate. Buy and sell on this day. Dreams
portend luck on this day.
The seventeenth day of the moon, a child born on, shows
it will be foolish. You may take physic, let blood, or con¬
tract business on this day.
The eighteenth day is fortunate, both for male and fe¬
male bom on it.
A nativity on the nineteenth day, the child will be wise
and virtuous, and will arrive at great honours.
Your dreams portend good, on the twentieth day of the
moon, though a child born on that day will be dishonest.
A child born on the twenty-first day will be of so un¬
happy a disposition, that let him look to the sword of
Justice, perhaps “black with murder, sacrilege, and
crimes.” An unhappy fatality attends this day.
On the twenty-second day, the child that i3 born will
purchase a good estate, he will be handsome, religious,
and well beloved. This is a good day to remove bees.
On the twenty-third day, the child that is born will be
of an ungovernable temper, a great traveller, but die mise¬
rable. Good day to be married, or commence business.
On the twenty-fourth day, the child born, will achieve
many heroic actions, and will be much admired for them.
The child bom on the twenty-fifth day, will be very
wicked, and meet with many dangers. It is a very unfor¬
tunate day, and threatens vexations.
On the twenty-sixth day, the child born, shall be very
amiable; a male will meet but an indifferent state in the
world; if a female, she will be married to a rich man for
lier beauty.
On the twenty-seventh day, a child born on this day,
will have every engaging quality, but will not rise to any
great preferment. This is a very lucky day.
On the twenty-eighth day, the child that is born shall
be the delight of his parents, but have much sickness.
The child born of a Sunday shall be of a long life, and
obtain riches.
1!
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER’S SURE GUIDE.
On Monday. Weak, of an effeminate temper, which
seldom brings a man of honour.
On Tuesday. The person bom will be subject to vio¬
lent starts of passion, not easily reconciled; if a man,
given to illicit connexions, which cause misfortunes to
rise, and he will be in danger of dying by violence from
them.
On Wednesday. Shall be given to learning, and pro¬
fit thereby.
On Thursday. He shall arrive at great honour and
riches.
On Friday. He shall be of a strong constitution, and
perhaps lecherous.
On Saturday. This day is a bad day, though the child
may come to good. They are of a clogged disposition.
EVIL AND PERILOUS DAYS
In every Month of the Year.
In January are eight days, that is, the 1st, 2d, 4th, 5th
10th, 15th, 17th, and 19th.
In February are three days, 13th, 16th, and 21st.
In March are two days, the 3rd, and 12th.
In April are two days, the 15th, and 21st.
In May are three days, the 15th, 17th, and 20th.
In June are two days, the 4th, and 7th.
In July are two days, the 15th, and 20th.
In August are two days, the 15th, and 30th.
In September are two days, the 7th, and 9th.
In October is one day, the 6th.
In November are two days, the 5th, and 19th.
In December are three days, the 6th, 7th, and 11th, and
others say, the 15th, and 19th.
But besides these, there are also canicular dog-days,
which are those of the greatest danger and peril ; they
begin the 19th of July, and end the 27lh of August,
during which time it is very dangerous to fall sick, take
physic, or let blood, but if necessity call for it, it is best
to be done before the middle of the day.
SIGNS OF A GENEROUS PERSON.
1. The forehead large, fleshy, plain, and smooth.
2. The eye moist and shining.
3. The countenance expressing joy and contend
12 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY ;
4. The voice pleasant
5. The motion of the body slow, &c.
SIGNS OF AN ILL-NATURED PERSON.
1. The form of the body meagre and lean.
2. The forehead cloudy, sullen, and wrinkled.
3. The eye cast down and malicious.
4. A nimble tongue.
5. Walking a short, quick, uneven pace.
6. A secret murmuring to himself as he walks.
JUDGMENTS DEDUCED FROM THE NAILS.
They who have their nails broad, are of a gentle dispo¬
sition, bashful and afraid of speaking before their superi¬
ors, or indeed to any one, without hesitation and a down¬
cast air.
If round the nails there is usually an excoriation, or
sprouting of the skin, the person is luxurious, fearful, and
an epicure, loving enjoyment provided it be obtained
without danger.
When there are certain white marks at the end, it testi¬
fies that the person is improvident, soon ruining their for¬
tune through negligence.
Narrow Nails. The person with such nails is desirous
of attaining knowledge in the sciences, but is never at
peace long with his neighbours.
When to narrowness they add some degree of length,
the person is led away by ambitious desires, aiming at
things which he cannot obtain; one who, having formed
notions of grandeur, grasps at the shadow, while he loses
the substance,
White Nails. When the nails are white and long, the
person is subject to great sickness; he is well made and
comely, but much inclined to women, who deceive him
through false pretences, and shortly bring him to ruin.
If upon the white there appear pale lead-coloured spots,
a short life and addicted to melancholy.
If at both ends there is a redness, or mixture of several
colours, the person is choleric, and delights in fighting.
W hen the end is black, the man loves agriculture, and
to cultivate the productions of the earth ; he places his
happiness in mediocrity, and from thence avoids the cares
attendant on either extreme of fortune.
13
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER’S SURE GUIDE.
Round Nails declare a hasty person, yet good-natured
and very forgiving; a lover of knowledge, honest in mind,
doing no one any harm, and acting according to his own
imagination, being rather too proud of his own abilities.
Long Nails. When the nails are long the person is
good-natured, but placing confidence in no man, being
from his youth conversant in deceit, yet not practising it
from the goodness of his nature and a love of virtue.
Fleshy Nails. A calm person and idler, loving to
s.leep, eat, and drink; not delighting in bustle and a bu¬
sy life; one who prefers a narrow income without indus¬
try, to one of opulence to be acquired by activity and di¬
ligence.
Little Nails. Little round nails discover a person to
be obstinately angry, seldom pleased, inclining to hate
every one, as conceiving himself superior to others,
though without any foundation for such conception.
Pale or Lead-coloured Nails. A melancholy person,
one who through choice leads a sedentary life, and would
willingly give up all things for the sake of study, and to
improve in the learned and metaphysical branches of phi¬
losophy.
Red and Spotted Nails. Choleric and martial, delight¬
ing in cruelty and war; his chief pleasure being in plun¬
dering towns, where every ferocious particle in human
nature is glutted to satiety.
When upon the nails you find any black spots, they al¬
ways signify evil, as white ones are a token of good. -
PHYSIOGNOMY
The Face. The face that is round, plump, and ruddy,
tells the person to be of an agreeable temper, deserving of
friendship, faithful in love; in a man, it denotes him to
be easily led astray.
The face that is smooth, well-proportioned features, de¬
notes a good disposition, but inclined to be suspicious ;
strongly addicted to the pleasures of love, and agreeable
conversation.
A face, with very prominent cheek bones, and thin,
shows a very restless disposition, fretful, and always
imagining evil, and very rarely satisfied with any thing.
A face naturally pale, denotes the person amorous.
A face of a sickly white, denotes a very malicious dis-
uosition, false, often cruel, and very inconstant.
14 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GtPSY;
A countenance tliat is pleasant, with red hair, shows the
party (though possessed of many good qualities) very
talkative, and at times very quarrelsome and conten ious,
positive in their own opinions, and very amorous.
A person of downcast eyes, when speaking to you, or
usually avoiding your gaze (by some interpreted inno¬
cence, though never was a greater mistake), is an enemy,
a deceiver, and a designing person — his inward actions
of the heart bear no scrutiny—and he that looks you in
the face wounds you in the tenderest part.—This fault is
very bad in a person of very small face and features, a
low forehead, and broad chin turning rather upward ; for
you may expect to find every evil in them comprised—
carefully avoid a person that does not look you in the
face when you are speaking to them.
When the eye-brows meet across the nose, and are
large, the person is uncommonly harsh, ungenerous, un¬
settled, and designing, though very proud.
Though the countenance is very pleasing with blue
eyes, but light and pale auburn hair, the person is incon¬
tinent, loving or desiring every new face, and capable of
great deceit.
Chin, §c. A long chin, especially in a female, denotes
her to be of a wicked disposition, and in a man very indis¬
creet and talkative; a little chin shows inveteracy and
malice; a broad chin poking forward denotes the pos¬
sessor to be very wicked, deceitful, and ungrateful, ex¬
tremely treacherous, and capable of imposing on their
best friends, and of a debauched life.
A round chin and dimpled, shows good-nature, but
much addicted to pleasure; those who have a valley at
the joining of the jaws are capable of any wickedness or
treachery, and at variance with every one. If the fore¬
head is well formed and smooth, it is a sign that the pos¬
sessor is generous, tender, and good-natured, possessing
a good share of understanding, faithful in business and
sincere in his affections; but if this is accompanied by a
long face, is greatly given to debauchery, and though at
times fond of his partner and near connexions, yet is ve¬
ry inconstant, suspicious, and miserable.
The forehead flat in the middle shows either sex to be
proud and ungenerous, very curious to know the secrets of
others, and very violent in love affairs.
If the forehead projects over the eye-brows, running
flat up to the hair, the possessor will be insolent, sulky,
imperious, and very treacherous, injuring every one, but
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER'S SURE GUIDE. 15
never forgiving an injury ; very lascivious, and will un¬
dergo many changes.
The eyes that are large, full, and clear, denote the pos¬
sessor to be void of deceit, of an agreeable disposition,
modest and bashful, particularly in affairs of love.
Of the Nose. A great nose shows a good man ; a little
nose, a deceitful person. A sharp nose denotes an angry
person and a scold; thick and low, a person of bad man¬
ners ; the nose stretching to the mouth denotes honesty,
strength, and aptness to learning.
Of the Nostrils. The nostrils thick and strong, betoken
strength; if round, fair, drawn in length, merry, and cou¬
rageous. The nostrils narrow and round betoken a fool¬
ish person.
Of the Mouth. A very big mouth, with upper lip hang¬
ing over, signifies a foolish unsteadfast person, a rash
man, a babbler, a glutton, and an ungodly man. An in¬
different large mouth showeth a bold and courageous man.
Of the Lips. Thin lips with a little mouth, show an ef¬
feminate person ; slender, thin, and fine lips betoken elo¬
quence. Fleshy and great lips a fool. And those whose
front teeth project are generally contumulous, slanderous,
and unfaithful; also much addicted to the love of strange
women.
FORTUNE-TELLING BY THE GROUNDS OF
TEA OR COFFEE.
To pour out the Tea or Coffee Grounds. Pour the grounds
of tea or coffee into a white cup, shake them well about
in it, so that their particles may cover the surface of the
whole cup; then reverse it into the saucer, that all the
superfluous parts may be drained, and the figures requi¬
red for fortune-telling be formed.
The person that acts the fortune-teller must always bend
his thoughts upon him or her that wish to have their for¬
tune told, and upon their rank and profession, in order
to give plausibility to their predictions. It is not to be
expected upon taking up the cup, that the figures will be
as accurately represented as they are in the pack, and it
is quite sufficient if they bear some resemblance to any of
the thirty-two emblems; and the more fertile the fancy
shall be of the person inspecting the cup, the more they
will discover in it.
In other respects, every one who takes a pleasure in this
amusement, must himself be a judge under what cireunu
16 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY;
stances he is to make changes in point of time, speaking
jivst as it suits, in the present, the past, or the future ; in
the same manner, their ingenuity ought to direct them
when to speak more or less pointedly or determinately
with regard to sex.
The Roads, or serpentine lines, indicate ways ; if they
are covered with clouds, and consequently in the thick,
they are said to be infallible marks either of many past or
future reverses. But if they appear in the clear and se¬
rene, are the surest tokens of some fortunate change near
at hand; encompassed with many points or dots, they
signify an accidental gain of money, likewise long life.
The Ring signifies marriage; if a letter near it, it de¬
notes to the person who has their fortune told, the initial
of the name of the party to be married. If the ring is in
the clear, it portends happy and lucrative friendship.
Surrounded with clouds, denotes that the party is to use
precaution in the friendship he is about to contract, lest
they should be insidiously deceived; but is most inauspi¬
cious if the ring appears at the bottom of the cup, as it
forebodes an entire separation from the beloved object. ;
The Leaf of Clover is, as well here as in common life, a
lucky sign; its different positions in the cup alone make
the difference ; because it is on the top, it shows that good
fortune is not far distant; but it is subject to delay, if it
is in the middle, or at the bottom.
Should clouds surround it, it shows that many disa¬
greeables will attend the good fortune; in the clear, it
prognosticates serene and undisturbed happiness, as
bright as the party wishes.
The Anchor. The emblem of hope and commerce, im¬
plies successful business carried on by water and by land,
if on the bottom of the cup ; at the top and in the clear
part, it shows constant love and unshaken fidelity. In
thick and clouded parts, it also denotes love, but tinctur¬
ed with the inconstancy of the butterfly.
The Serpent. Always the emblem of falsehood and en¬
mity, is likewise here a general sign of an enemy. On
the top or in the middle of the cup, it promises to the
consulting party the triumph which he desires over his
enemy. But he will not obtain it so easily, if the ser¬
pent be in the thick or cloudy part. By the letter which
frequently appears near the emblem, the enemy may be
easily guessed, as it marks the initial of his name.
The Letter, By letters we communicate to our friends
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER S SURE GUIDE. 17
either pleasant or unpleasant news, and such is the'case
here; if this emblem is in the clear part, it denotes the
speedy arrival of welcome news ; surrounded with dots
it announces the arrival of a considerable remittance in
money; but hemmed in by clouds it is quite the contra¬
ry, and forebodes some melancholy or bad tidings, a loss,
or some other sinister accident. If it be in the clear, and
accompanied by a heart, lovers may expect a letter which
secures to the party the possession of the beloved object.
But in the thick it denotes a refusal.
The Coffin. The emblem of death prognosticates the
same thing here, or at least a long and tedious illness, if
it be in the thick or turbid. In the clear it denotes long
life. In the thick at the top of the cup, it signifies a con¬
siderable estate left to the party by some rich relation ; in
the same manner at the bottom, it shows that the deceas¬
ed is not so nearly related to the consulting party.
The Star denotes happiness if in the clear, and at the
top of the cup; clouded, or in the thick, it signifies long
life, though exposed to various troubles. If dots are about
it, it foretells great fortune, wealth, high respectability,
honours, &c. -
Several stars denote so many good and happy children;
but surrounded by dashes, show that your children will
cause you grief and vexation in your old age, and that
you ought to prevent it by giving them a good education
in time.
The Dog being at all times an emblem of fidelity or en¬
vy, has also a two-fold meaning here. At the top in the
clear it signifies true and faithful friends; but if his im¬
age be surrounded with clouds and dashes, it shows that
those whom you take for your friends are not to be de¬
pended on; but if the dog be at the bottom of the cup,
you have to dread the effects of extreme envy or jealousy.
The Lily. If this emblem be at the top, or in the mid¬
dle of the cup, it signifies that the consulting party either
has or will have a virtuous spouse; if it be at the bottom,
it denotes quite the reverse. In the clear the lily further
betokens long and happy life; if clouded, or in thick, it
portends trouble and vexation, especially on the part of
one’s relations.
The Rose. Be it one or more it generally predicts ad¬
versities. Its position varies, and so do the circumstances.
If it be at the top and in the clear, it shows that the mis¬
fortunes of the party will soon be at an end, or that he
will easily get over them; but if it appears in the mid¬
dle, or at the bottom in the thick, the party must expect
IB THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY;
many severe trials ; if it appears with dots, either in the
clear or the thick, it promises a speedy change of one’s
sorrow.
The Clouds. If they be more light than dark, you may
expect a good result from your hopes; but if they are
black, you may give it up. Surrounded with dots they
imply success in trade, and in all your undertakings ; but
the brighter they are the greater will be your happiness.
The Sun. An emblem of the greatest luck and happi¬
ness, if in the clear; but in the thick it denotes a great deal
of sadness; surrounded by dots or dashes, denotes that
an alteration will speedily take place.
The Moon. If it appears in the clear it denotes high
honours; if in the dark or thick parts, it implies sadness,
which will, however, pass without great prejudice. But
if it be at the bottom of the cup, the consulting party will
be very fortunate both by water and land.
Mountains. If it presents only one mountain it indi¬
cates the favour of people of high rank; but several of
them, especially in the thick, are signs of powerful ene¬
mies; in the clear they signify the contrary, or friends in
high life, who are endeavouring to promote the consult¬
ing party.
The Tree. One tree only, be it in the clear or thick
part, points out lasting good health ; several trees denote
that your wish will be accomplished. If they are encom¬
passed with dashes, it is a token that your fortune is in its
blossom, and will require some time to bring it to maturi¬
ty. If they are accompanied by dots, it is a sign that
you will make your fortune in the country where you re¬
side.
The Child. In the clear part bespeaks innocent inter¬
course between the consulter and another person ; in the
thick part, excess in love matters, attended with great ex¬
penses ; at the bottom of the cup it denotes the conse¬
quences of libidinous amours.
The Woman, signifies much joy in general. If in the
clear, this emblem has a more favourable signification
than in the thick ; there it shows very great happiness;
here, a great deal of jealousy. If dots surround the
image, it explains the lady’s fertility or her wealth. The
different position in the cup, shows at the top, and in the
middle, that you will be in love with a virgin ; but at the
bottom, it marks that she is a widow.
The Pedestrian, denotes in general a merchant, good
business, pleasant news, and recovery of lost things. It
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER’S SURE GUIDE. 19
also signifies that the consulting party will soon enlist, or
get some engagement.
The Rider, denotes good news from abroad, in money
matters; a good situation in a foreign country, or good
prospects. He that doubts his fortune is promised a
lasting one by this emblem.
The Mouse. As this animal lives by stealth, it is also
here an emblem of theft or robbery : if it be in the clear,
it shows you will get again what you have lost in a won¬
derful manner; but if it appears in the thick, you may
renounce this hope.
The Rod, shows difference with relations about matters
relating to legacies ; in the thick, illness.
The Rose, or any other Flower. The greatest in any sci¬
ence or art; if the consulting party be married, he may
expect good children, and all the fruits to be expected
from their good education in his old age.
The Heart. Ifit be in the clear, it signifies future plea¬
sure. It promises joy at recovering some money, if sur¬
rounded with dots. If a ring or two hearts be together,
it signifies that the party is about to be married or be¬
trothed ; if a letter be perceptible near it, it shows the ini¬
tial of the person’s name ; if the letter be in the clear, the
party is a virgin; if in the thick, a widows.
The Garden or Wood, signifies a large company. In the
clear, it indicates good friends of which it will consist; in
the thick, or encompassed with streaks, it warns the con¬
sulting party to be cautious, and not to take for his friends
those who merely profess themselves such.
The Bird in general. In the clear it signifies that the
disagreeables and troubles with which you shall have to
combat, will soon be over; in the thick it is a sign of
good living, and of a speedy, successful voyage or journey,
which, if there are dashes, will be directed to a great dis¬
tance.
Fish in general. They imply lucky events by water if
in the clear, which will either happen to the consulter, or
improve the state of affairs beyond the water. If they are
in the thick, the consulter will fish in troubled water, and
rely upon that which others have already lost before him.
Surrounded with dots, they signify that his destiny calls
him to some distant place.
The Lion, or any other ferocious Beast. At the top, in
the clear, it signifies all kinds of prosperity with people of
quality. At the bottom, it warns the consulter to shun all
20 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY;
such intercourse, as he will at all events find persons who
will envy his fortune, and not see it with indifference.
The Green Bush, shows the benevolence and favours of
all your patrons: it gives you hopes of attaining the hon¬
ours you wish for; without foliage, it is a token of the ca¬
prices of fortune; in the clear, it announces an unexpect¬
ed remittance of money.
Worms. At the top, or in the middle of the cup, it de¬
notes good luck at playing, and in matrimony; below, it
warns you against rivals in your courtship, and against
enviers in your trade and profession.
The House, indicates, at the top of the cup, blessing and
success in all your enterprises; if your situation be then
not the most favourable, you may hope that it will soon
change for the better. In the middle, or below, it cautions
you to be very vigilant over your servants, as your vigi¬
lance alone will prevent your being injured.
The Scythe. If combined with an hour-glass, it denotes
imminent dangers of all kinds. Below, it signifies a long
and happy life.
CHARMS AND CEREMONIES.
To know whether one shall enjoy their love or not. Take
the number of the first letter of your names, the number
of the planet, and of the day of the week; put all these to¬
gether and divide them by 40 : if it be above, it will come
to your mind, and if below, to the contrary: be particular
in minding the number which is under 30.
To knoio whether a new-horn Child shall live or die.
Write down the proper names of the father and mother,
and the day the child was born, and put to each letter its
number as before, and to the total sum, being put together,
add 25, and divide the whole by 7; and then if it be even,
the child will die; but if odd, it shall live.
To know whether a Person ivill be married. Get a pease-
pod, in which are nine peas, hang the same over the door,
and take notice of the first person who comes in (who is
not of the family), and if he be a bachelor you will cer¬
tainly be married within the year.
On any Friday throughout the year, take rosemary
flowers, bay-leaves, thyme, and sweet-marjoram, of each a
handful, dry these and make them into fine powder;
then take a tea-spoonful of each sort, mix the whole to¬
gether; then take twice the quantity of barley flour, and
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER’S SURE GUIDE. 21
make the whole into a cake with the milk of a red cow;
this cake is not to be baked, but wrapped in clean writing-
paper, and laid under your head any Friday night. If
the person dreams of music, she will wed him she wishes,
and that shortly; if she dreams of fire, she will be cross¬
ed in love; if of a church, she will die single. If any
thing is written, or there is the least spot of ink on the
paper it will not do.
Any unmarried woman fasting on Midsummer eve,
and at midnight laying a clean cloth, with bread, cheese,
and ale, and sitting down as if going to eat, the street door
being left open, the person whom she is afterwards to
marry will come into the room, and drink to her by bow¬
ing; and afterwards filling the glass, will leave it on the
table, and, making another bow, retire.
To see afuture Husband. On Midsummer eve, just at
sun-set, three, five, or seven young women are to go into
a garden in which there is no other person, and each ga¬
ther a sprig of red sage; and then going into a room by
themselves, set a stool in the middle of the room, and on
it a clean bason full of rose-water, in which the sprigs of
sage are to be put; and tying a line across the room on
one side of the stool, each woman is to hang on it a clean
shift turned the wrong side outwards; then all are to sit
down in a row, on the opposite side of the stool, as far
distant as the room will admit, not speaking the whole
time, whatever they see; and in a few minutes after 12
each one’s future husband will take her sprig out of the
rose-water, and sprinkle her shift with it.
On St. Agnes’s night, 21st of January, take a row of pins,
and pull out every one, one after another, saying a pater¬
noster on sticking a pin in your sleeve, and you will dream
of him you shall marry.
A slice of the bride-cake thrice drawn through the wed
ding-ring, and put under the head of an unmarried wo¬
man, will cause her to dream of her future husband. The
same is practised in the north with a piece of groaning
cheese.
Another' way to see a future Spouse in a Dream. The
party inquiring must lie in a different county from that
in which he commonly resides, and on going to bed must
knit the left garter about the right-legged stocking, letting
the other garter and stocking alone; and as you rehearse
the following verses at every comma knit a knot:
This knot I knit, to know the thing 1 know not yet.
That I may see the man that shall my husband be.
22 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY}
How lie goes, and what he wears,
And what he does, all days and years.
Accordingly in a dream he will appear with the insig*
nia of his trade or profession.
Another, performed by charming the moon, thus: at
the first appearance of the new moon, immediately after
the new-year’s day, go out in the evening, and standing
over the spears of a gate or stile, and looking on the moon
repeat the following lines:
All hail to the moon ! all hail to thee !
I prithee, good moon, reveal to me,
This night who my husband must he.
The party will then dream of their future husband.
To discover a Theft by the Sieve and Shears. Stick the
points of the shears in the wood of the sieve, and two per¬
sons support it, balanced upright, with their two fingers;
then read a certain chapter in the bible, and afterwards
ask St. Peter and St. Paul, if A or B is the thief, naming
all the persons you suspect. On naming the real thief,
the sieve will suddenly turn about.
To know whether a Woman will have the Man she wishes.
Thus, get two lemon peels, and wear them all day, one in
each pocket, and at night rub the four posts of the bed¬
stead with them ; if she is to succeed, the person will ap¬
pear in her sleep, and present her with a couple oflemons ;
if not, there is no hope.
To know what Fortune yourfuture Husband shall have.
Take a walnut, a hazel nut, and a nutmeg, grate them to¬
gether, and mix them with butter and sugar, and make
them into small pills, of which exactly nine must be taken
on going to bed, and according to her dreams, so will be
the state of the person she will marry. If a gentleman, of
riches; if a clergyman, of white linen; if a lawyer, of
darkness; if a tradesman, of odd noises and tumults; if
a soldier or sailor, of thunder and lightning; if a servant,
of rain.
The Dumb Cake. —In order to make the dumb cake to
perfection, it is necessary to observe strictly the following
instructions: Let any number of young women take a
handful of wheaten flower (not a word is to be spoken by
any one of them during the rest of the process), and place
it on a sheet of white paper; then sprinkle it over with as
much salt as can be held between the finger and thumb;
then one of the damsels must bestow as much of her own
water as will make it into dough : which being done each
23
OR, THE FORTUNE-TELLER'S SURE GUIDE.
of the company must roll it up, and spread it thin and
broad, and each person must (at some distance from each
other), make the first letters of her Christian and surname,
with a large new pin, towards the end of the cake, if more
Christian names than one, the first letter of each must be
made; the cake must then be set before the fire, and each
person must sit down in a chair, as far distant from the
fire as the room will admit, not speaking a single word all
the time. This must be done soon after eleven at night;
and between that and twelve each person must turn the
cake once; and in a few minutes after the clock strikes
twelve, the husband of her who is first to be married will
appear, and lay his hand on that part of the cake which is
marked with her name.
To know ifyour present Sweetheart ivill marry you. Let
any unmarried woman take the blade-bone of a shoulder
of lamb, and borrowing a pen-knife (but be sure not to
mention for what purpose), on going to bed stick the
knife once through the bone, every night for nine nights
in different places, repeating every night, while sticking
the bone, these words:
’Tis not this bone I mean to stick,
But my lover’s heart I mean to prick,
Wishing him neither rest nor sleep,
Till he comes to me to speak.
Accordingly, at the end of the nine days, or shortly after,
he will ask for something to put to a wound he will have
met with during the time you were charming him.
Another. On any Friday morning, fasting, write the
names of three persons you like best, and also death, on
four pieces of paper exactly alike, and folding them up,
wear them in your bosom all day, and at night shake
them up in the shoe you wore on the left foot; going to
bed backwards, take out one with your left hand, and the
other with your right, throw three of them out of your
shoe, and in the morning whichever name you find in your
shoe is the name of the person you will marry; but if
death is left, you will not have either of them. This is to
be done three Friday nights.
Tofind out the twofirst, Letters of afuture Wife or LIus-
band’s name.—Take a small bible, and the key of your
front street door, and having opened to Solomon’s Songs,
chap. viii. verse 6 and 7, place the wards of the key on
those two verses, let the bow of the key be about an inch
out of the top of the bible; then shut the book, and tie
it round with your garter, so as the key will not move, and
^4 THE ORIGINAL NORWOOD GIPSY; &C.
the person who wishes to know his or her future husband
or wife’s signature, must suspend the bible by putting the
middle finger of the right hand under the bow of the key,
and the other person in like manner on the other side of
the bow of the key, who must repeat the following verses,
after the other person’s saying the alphabet, one letter to
each time repeating them. It must be observed, that you
mention to the person who repeats the verses, before you
begin, which you intend to try first, whether sire or Chris¬
tian name, and take care to hold the bible steady, and
when you arrive at the appointed letter, the book will turn
round under your finger: and that you will find to be the
first letter of your intended’s name.
Solomon’s Songs, chap. viii. ver. 6 and 7.
“ Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine
arm; for love is strong as death, jealousy is cruel as the
grave: the coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a
most vehement flame.
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods
drown it: if a man would give all the substance of his
bouse for love, it would utterly be contemned.”
i Printed by Thomas Richardson, Derby
