{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1840__horsford___phrenological_classifications_of_grimes.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenological Classifications Of Grimes","mylang":"de"}
REPORT
ON THE
PHRENOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION
J. STANLEY GRIMES.
J
BY E. N. HORSFORD,
Profeasor of Natural History and Mathematics in the Albany Female Academy
ADOPTED BY THE ALBANY PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
SEPTEMBER 3, 1840.
ALBANY
:
PRINTED BY J. MUNSELL,
1840.
REPORT
The committee to whom was referred the letter of
Mr. Grimes, requesting an examination of his classifica-
tion, £LS exhibited in his *'New System of Phrenology,"
and a comparison of it with the classification of Dr.
Spurzheim, beg leave to submit the following
Repoet :
The importance of arranging the principles of a sci-
ence in accordance with the laws of natural relationship,
has been recognized from the days of the earliest philo-
sophers to the present time. It has been acknowledged
in astronomy, geology, and the other branches of natural
science. The productions of the great men in these se-
veral departments of investigation are the monuments of
a desire to improve and perfect classification. A like
feeling has been manifested by writers upon the powers
of the mind. Succeeding generations, enlightened by
discoveries, and quickened thereby to the perception of
defects in previous systems, attempted improvements
;
and the whole history of mental philosophy, from Pytha-
goras to the commencement of the last century, is but
little more than the record of changes in nomenclature
and arrangement of the attributes of mind.
4 REPORT.
In order to the exhibition of a comprehensive view of
this subject, it may be well to notice briefly the princi-
pal systems that have heretofore attracted attention.
They may be divided into,
Those which consider the faculties with little or no
regard to the relation existing between them and corpo-
real organs ; and,
Those which consider the faculties as depending for
manifestation directly upon certain corporeal organs.
I. A division of the mental faculties into two kinds,
equivalent to Intellect and Inclination, appears in
nearly all the systems, from the most ancient to the most
recent. Pythagoras taught his pupils of the Rational
and Irrational principles of the soul. Plato divided
the soul into three parts, Intelligence, Passion and Ap-
petite. The second and third belong to Inclination.
According to Aristotle, the human soul has three facul-
ties, the Nutritive, the Sensitive^ and the Rational ;
and they are possessed to some extent by animals. The
Rational part alone was believed by Pythagoras and
Plato to be immortal : but it is not known whether Aris-
totle regarded any part or faculty as destined to exist
forever. There were, however, after the commencement
of the Christian era, those who considered the human
soul as an unit, purely spiritual and immortal : while all
brutes were supposed to be guided by a mysterious and
unfathomable Instinct, which could exist only during the
organization of the body. In their writings, usually
corresponding with Intellect and Inclination, we have
Head and Heart, Understanding and Affections, Soul
or Spirit, and Appetites or Lusts ; terms drawn from
REPORT. 5
the scriptures, and used to embrace the two classes of
mental powers.
Lord Bacon, who was the first to clear away the dark-
ness that had long surro.unded the true principles of phi-
losophical investigation, thought there were two minds in
man : one of Sensibility and Voluntary Motion—ano-
ther having the attributes of Memory, Imagination,
&c. Des Cartes maintained the existence of four quali-
ties or faculties of mind
—
Sensibility, Imagination, Un-
derstanding and Will ; and he adopted the opinion of
the fathers of the church, that animals are directed by
an inexplicable instinct. Malebranche recognized two
primary powers of mind
—
Understanding and Will ;
under each of which inferior powers were treated. Un-
derstanding embraced Perception, Memory, Judgment
and Imagination ; and Will included Inclination, De-
sire, Affections and Passions. Locke differed little in
his arrangement from Malebranche.
Reid and Brown, while they evidently considered the
mind as a single general power, have admitted more of
the primitive faculties than those who preceded them
;
and the subdivisions in both have been made under si-
milar heads. Reid divides them into Intellectual and
Active ; Brown, into Intellectual states of the
Mind, and Emotions. " The Intellectual states of
the Mind are referrable," says Dr. Brown, " to two ge-
neric susceptibilities or capacities ; those of simple sug-
gestion, and those of relative suggestion.^^ Simple sug-
gestion is the basis of conception, memory, imagination
and hahit ; and corresponds with the phrenological per-
ceptives. Relative suggestion is the basis of judg7ne7it
reason and abstraction ; and corresponds with the phre-
5 REPORT.
nological reflectives. Emotions, he divides into Immedi*
ATE, Retrospective and Prospective. The Immediate
EMOTIONS are of wonder, beauty, sublimity, sympathy,
&c. The Retrospective emotions are of anger, grati-
tude, regret, gladness, and remorse. The Prospective
emotions, which, according to Dr. Brown's analysis, in-
clude several of the affective faculties of Spurzheim, are,
1. Desire of our own continued existence,
2. Desire of pleasure,
3. Desire of action,
4. Desire of society,
5. Desire of knowledge,
6. Desire of power,
7. Desire of the affections of others,
8. Desire of glory,
9. Desire of the happiness of others,
10. Desire of evil to others.
Lord Karnes " distinctly refers to and describes, as
original principles of thought and action, no less than
twenty of the phrenological faculties ;"* and Smellie,
who, at the suggestion of Lord Karnes, was induced to
prepare the Philosophy of Natural History, has remarked
among animals the manifestations of twenty-three of the
primary powers of mind ; though neither of these phi-
losophers attempted any further arrangement than a ge-
neral reference to the classes of Intellectual Faculties
and Instincts or Propensities.
The philosophic schools of Germany and France,
while they have established a source of ideas, which
Locke did not admit, to wit. Reason, have made scarcely
' History of Phrenology, by R. W. Haskins, of Buffalo, N. Y.
REPORT. 7
any progress in the determination of fundamental facul-
ties. The following extract from the writings of Theo-
dore Jouffroy, a French philosopher, and distinguished
pupil of Cousin—the acknowledged head of metaphysical
science in France—presents a synoptical view of the
classification of the eclectic school.
" In the actual state of human knowledge, the irredu-
cible capacities of the human soul appear to me to be the
following. First the 'personal faculty^ or the supreme
power of taking possession of ourselves and of our capa-
cities, and of controlling them : this faculty is known by
the names of liberty or will, which designate it but
imperfectly. Secondly, the 'primitive inclination of our
nature, or that aggregate of instincts or tendencies which
impel us towards certain ends and in certain directions,
prior to all experience, and which at once suggest to
reason the destiny of our being, and animate our activi-
ty to pursue it. Thirdly, the locomotive faculty, or that
energy by which we move the locomotive nerves, and
produce all the voluntary bodily movements. Fourthly,
the expressive faculty, or the power of representing by
external signs that which takes place within us, and of
thus holding communication with our fellow men. Fifth-
ly, sensibility, or the capacity of being agreeably or dis-
agreeably affected, by all external or internal causes,
and of reacting in relation to them by movements of love
or hatred, of desire or aversion, which are the principle
of all passion. Sixthly, the intellectual faculties. This
term comprises many distinct faculties, which can be
enumerated and described only in a treatise on intelli-
gence."
In all the systems that have been noticed, it is not
8 REPORT.
difficult for the phrenologist to perceive, great imperfec-
tion. The first division seems, in nearly all of them, to
have been made upon the same principles : hut in the
determination of the several faculties, and their ar-
rangement under the two heads, very striking differen-
ces are perceptible. Different modes and degrees of ac-
tivity have been mistaken for primitive powers ; and
mental operations which were supposed to originate in
one faculty, are now known to depend upon the com-
bined activity of several. Mr. Combe, in his essay upon
the objections of metaphysicians, has very ingeniously
shown that all their intellectual faculties, perception,
conception, association, memory, imagination and ab-
straction, are reducible to conception : and this supposed
faculty he elsewhere proves to be but an attribute of the
general intellect.
The Instinct of animals has been resolved into its
elements, and the chasm between man and the other
creatures of creation narrowed to its proper limits.
II. As Pythagoras was among the first to divide the
mind into two parts, so was he also among the first to
assign it a habitation in corporeal organs. He consi-
dered the brain as the seat of the Rational^ and the
heart of the Irrational principle. Aristotle believed the
soul to exist in the heart. Others thought the Intellect^
or rational part located in the head, and the Passions in
the viscera. Albertus Magnus, archbishop of Ratisbon,
in the thirteenth century, convinced that so large an or-
gan as the brain should have assigned to it more speei-
fic functions, made it the residence of certain conceived
powers of the mind. Commcm sense, he placed in the
REPORT. 9
forehead, or first ventricle of the train ; thought, or
judgment, in the second ; and memory, or moving force,
in the third. Pierre de Montagna, in the fifteenth cen-
tury, published a work, in which was figured a head, re-
presenting the site of common sense, imagination, thought
or judgment, memory and reason. Lodovico Dolci, the
century after, issued a work containing a similar deline-
ation Des Cartes conjectured that the pineal gland
was the seat of the mind. " Willis considered the cor-
pora striata the seat of sensation and attention ; the me-
dullary matter, of memory ; the corpus collosum, of re-
fiection ; whilst the moving spirits emanated from the
cerebellum." Charles Bonnet thought that each indi-
vidual fibre was an organ of the mind. Different modifi-
cations of the views already given, concerning the dispo-
sition of the powers of the mind among the different por-
tions of the brain, and other organs of the body, were,
until the discovery of phrenology, treated with more or
less attention by all learned men.
To the student of nature, it does not appear strange,
that these speculations rose and fell, —that they rivalled
and supplanted each other, and that they all vanished
before the blaze of that light which Gall concentrated
upon them with such burning power. For they had
been the creatures of almost pure fancy, unaided by
careful observation and induction. The viscera were
proved to have no connection with the passions ; and
the fanciful system of Albertus Magnus, and all those of
his followers, were seen to have no foundation in truth.
Observation could contribute nothing to the support of
Des Cartes or Willis ; and their speculations, with those
of their predecessors, on the habitation of the mind and
10 REPORT.
powers, will soon be known only in the pages of his-
tory.
The actual discovery of twenty-six of the fundamen-
tal faculties of the mind, and the organs through which
they manifested themselves, was the first great step to-
wards a proper classification. But the life of Dr. Gall was
too short for the labor of founding and perfecting a sci-
ence. Although he speaks of propensities, mechanical
aptitudes, intellectual dispositions, and moral qualities ;
yet, besides the record of his invaluable discoveries, he
has left us little more than a simple arrangement of the
powers. In this he seems to have been guided merely
by the relative position of the organs, commencing at
the base, and proceeding regularly to the top. Accord-
ingly, Amativeness is placed first, and Firmness last
;
while Cautiousness and Educability (Individuality and
Eventuality of Spurzheim,) are associated together. Dr.
Gall maintained that all the faculties have the same
modes of action ; and that a separation of them into two
orders, founded upon their different modes of action,
could not be made. Dr. Spurzheim, however, guided
by the accumulated opinions of philosophers who had
gone before him, was enabled to recognize two distinct
classes of powers ; and the two orders of Affective and
Intellectual Faculties proposed by him, have received
the sanction of the greater portion of the phrenological
world. Dr. Spurzheim maintained that perception, me-
mory, and imagination, are attributes of the Intellect,
and that the affective faculties have sensation alone.
These views were rejected by Gall. Dr Spurzheim di-
vided the Affective Faculties into Propemities, or those
internal impulses which invite to certain actions, and
REPORT. 11
Sentiments, which, besides inviting to certain actions^
are attended when active by a peculiar emotion.
The Intellectual Faculties he subdivided into four ge-
nera : the external senses ; the faculties which perceive
existence and physical qualities ; those which perceive
the relations of external objects; and the reflecting fa-
culties. The following is Dr. Spurzheim's classifica-
tion, as drawn out in Mr. Combe's last work.
ORDER L—FEELINGS.
Genus i. —Propensities.
1. Amativeness, 6. Destructiveness,
2. Philoprogenitiveness, * Alimentiveness,
3. Concentrativeness, or t Love of life,
Inhabitiveness, 7. Secretiveness,
4. Adhesiveness, 8. Acquisitiveness,
5. Combativeness, 9. Constructiveness.
Genus ii.—Sentiments.
I. Sentiments common to man with lower animals,
10. Self esteem, 13. Cautiousness,
II. Approbativeness,
2. Sentiments 'proper to man.
13. Benevolence, 18. Wonder,
14. Veneration, 19. Ideality,
15. Firmness, 20. Mirthfulness,
16. Conscientiousness, 21. Imitation.
17. Hope,
ORDER IL—INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
Genus i. —External Senses.
Feeling, or touch, Hearing,
Taste, Sight.
Smell,
12 REPORT.
Geus II.
—
Intellectual Faculties,
Which perceive existence a7id 'physical qualities.
22. Individuality, 25. Weight,
23. Form, 26. Coloring.
24. Size,
Genus hi.—Intellectual Faculties,
Which perceive relatiom of external objects.
27. Locality, 31. Time,
28. Number, 32. Tune,
29. Order, 33. Language.
30. Eventuality,
Genus iv.—Reflecting Faculties.
34. Comparison, 35. Causality.
In expressing an opinion upon the merits of this clas-
sification, the committee feel deeply the responsibility
of their situation. The work of a profoundly analytical
mind is before them ; and with scarcely an alteration, it
has received the sanction of the most distinguished ad-
vocates of the science, in Britain, France, and America.
It is the standard classification; it is one of the many
monuments of a distinguished genius, and we are bound
to revere it. The committee are also aware, that the
ultimate functions of all the powers are not yet estab-
lished, and that there is still a broad field for discovery.
Nevertheless, the following quotations from Spurzheim
and Combe, show not only their own consciousness of
imperfections in this classification, but appear to point
out to us the path we should pursue. "If," says Spurz-
heim, "under any head of the nomenclature, there be a
better name than I employ, * * * # j shall be
glad to use it ; for I am always disposed to acknowledge
REPORT. 13
truth, and obey real improvement." " It appears im-
possible," says Mr. Combe, " to arrive at a correct clas-
sification until all the organs, and also the primitive fa-
culty or ultimate function of each, shall be definitely
ascertained, which is not at present the case. Till this
end shall be accomplished, every interim arrangement
will be in danger of being overturned by subsequent dis-
coveries."
From these remarks, the duty of pointing out defects,
that in the very nature of things belong to progressive
science, when necessary to the exhibition of improve-
ment, becomes abundantly apparent.
Dr. Spurzheim's first division into Intellectual and
Affective Faculties, is the link by which phrenology is
attached to the mental philosophy of the old school.
His division of the affective faculties into propensities
and sentiments, nearly corresponds with Brown's Pros-
pective and Immediate Emotions. It is based upon a
conceived difference in their attributes. " Propensities,"
Spurzheim remarks, "invite only to certain actions;"
but sentiments are not limited to inclination alone;
" they have an emotion of a peculiar kind superadded."
After comparing the views of writers who have recog-
nized this distinction with the actual manifestations of
the affective powers, the committee are unable to be-
lieve that grounds for this division exist. Each of these
faculties has its own sphere of action, but some of the
spheres are higher than others. Philoprogenitiveness
has its nursery; Adhesiveness its limited circle of
friends ; and Benevolence, the entire world. Alimen-
tiveness impels attention to the wants of the nutritive
system; Cautiousness induces general guardianship over
14 REPORT.
both the corporeal and mental constitutions ; and Hope
excites to action under bright views of a cloudless fu-
ture. When these powers are aroused by their appro-
priate stimuli, their activity is attended in all by a feel-
ing or an emotion, differing in the diffei-ent faculties as
widely as the spheres in which they act.
Now that, to Benevolence and the group of powers
with which it is associated, this attribute should be ex-
tended, while to Adhesiveness and the whole genus of
animal propensities it is denied, is considered a position
unfounded in nature.
The subdivision into sentiments common to man and
the lower animals and those proper to man, is very clear-
ly defective. Spurzheim has given drawings showing
that some dogs and horses have a developement of Be-
nevolence ; and Gall remarked that lions were more full
in the region of this organ than tigers. Imitation is ad-
mitted by Spurzheim to be a faculty of some of the mon-
key tribe ; and Mr. Combe remarks, that the organ is
found in the brains of both parrots and monkeys. It
has also been suggested, that the proverbial stubborn-
ness of asses has its source in Firmness. These exam-
ples show that the last division, though it may be con-
venient, is not strictly philosophical. In the genus ani-
mal propensities, Spurzheim has classed together pow-
ers, at least as little associated as are the superior and
inferior sentiments. Alimentiveness, a faculty related
exclusively to the individual, is placed beside Amative-
ness and Philoprogenitiveness, which are clearly related
to the species. In the arrangement of the intellectual
faculties, Language, one of the lowest organs, and one
which, according to Bessieres, becomes fibrous immedi-
REPORT. 15
ately after Individuality and Form, is elevated to a place
directly below the reflectives.
Dr. Bessieres, a French phrenological author, denies
that the external senses are intellectual faculties, and
says " their essential nature is to transmit sensations,
hut not to know; because it is not the senses that know,
but the faculties which they employ, and of which they
are the instruments."
The committee do not wish to be understood as alto-
gether approving the criticism of the French phrenolo-
gist ; only as considering the ultimate functions of the
organs of sense as worthy of further investigation. If
from the impression upon the retina, and the sensation
transmitted along the optic nerve to the brain. Indivi-
duality perceives existence—Form perceives form—Size
perceives extension, and Coloring perceives color ; there
seems to be no function left to the optic apparatus, but
that of a mere passage-way for ideas of physical objects
from the external world to the brain.
Dr. Andrew Carmichael, former president of the Dub-
lin Phrenological Society, in his memoir of Spurzheim,
gives the following outline of a classification. The or-
gans at the side of the head are related to the subsist-
ence and preservation of the individual. Those at the
back of the head are all requisite to the perfection of the
species and the formation of society. Those of the fore-
head and coronal region are partly common to man and
animals, and in part exclusively human.
Dr. Bessieres has given a classification, in which he
presents a division of the powers of the mind into three
classes, related to the wants, sympathies and knowledge
of man. The organs of the first class are situated upon
16 REPORT.
the side of the head ; those of the second, behind and
on the top. He makes Imitation, Ideality and Mirthful-
ness, intellectual yercejptives, and denies that Benevo-
lence is manifested by any of the lower animals. Lan-
guage, he places the very highest in the intellectual class.
In the classification of Miss Miles, there are no or-
ders or genera, it being merely a grouping of the pow-
ers together for convenience in the examination of heads,
without strict regard to their functional relations.
Fowler and Kirkham's Phrenology contains a classi-
fication based in part upon an analysis of several pow-
ers,, which is not adopted by most phrenological authors.
Constructiveness is considered a semi-intellectual senti-
ment, and is ranked with Ideality and Imitation.
Several of the objections which were made to the first
great system are applicable to the others that have been
mentioned; and against some, objections might be urg-
ed, to which the classification of Spurzheim is not ex-
posed.
Mr. Grimes' classification, as presented in his "New
System of Phrenology," retains Spurzheim's first divi-
sion of the powers of the mind under the heads of Pro-
pensities and Intellectual Faculties. The Propen-
sities he divides into two classes, which he denominates
Ipseal and Social. He denies the distinction between
propensities and sentiments maintained hy Spurzheim.
His classification follows
:
CLASS I.
Ipseal or Self-Relative Propensities.
CLASS IL
Social, or Society-Relative Propensities.
REPORT. 17
CLASS III.
Intellectual, or Knowledge-Kelative Faculties.
CLASS L—IPSEALS.
1. Corporeal Range.
1. Pneumativeness, 3. Sanitativeness.
2. Alimentiveness,
2. Carnivorous Range.
4. Destructiveness, 5. Combativeness.
3. Herbivorous Range.
6. Secretiveness, 7. Cautiousness.^
4. Rodentia Range.
8. Constructiveness, 9. Acquisitiveness.
5. Human Range.
10. Playfulness, 12. Hopefulness.
11. Perfectiveness,
CLASS II.—SOCIALS.
Establishing Group.
1. Amativeness, 3. Inhabitiveness,
2. Parentiveness, 4. Adhesiveness.
Governing Group.
5. Imperativeness, 7. Firmness,
6. Approbativeness, 8. Conscientiousness.
Conforming Group.
9. Submissiveness, 11, Imitativeness,
10. Kindness, 12. Credenciveness,
CLASS IIL—INTELLECTUALS,
Lower Range.
1. Individuality, 5. Size,
2. Chemicality, 6. Weight,
3. Language, 7. Color,
4. Form, 8. Order,
9. Number,
2*.
18 REPORT.
MroDLE Kange.
10. Direction, 12. Time,
11. Eventuality, 13. Tune.
Upper Range.
14. Comparison, 15. Causality.
" This division into three classes, Ipseal, Social, and
Intellectual, is founded," says the author, "upon the
following considerations.
" First. Anatomy points to three grand divisions.
*'
1. The spinal cord- is in three columns, anterior,
middle and posterior; and Mr. Charles Bell demonstrat-
ed that all the nerves which proceed from one column
are destined to perform one class of functions. The
nerves from the anterior column are for volition ; those
from the middle for respiration and nutrition ; and those
from the posterior for sensation.
"2. The medulla oblongata, Mr. Bell considered as a
continuation of the same three columns of the spinal
cord. It has three bodies,
The pyramidal, in the anterior;
The olivary, in the middle, and
The restiform in the posterior column.
" 3. The brain has always been divided into three
lobes—anterior, middle and posterior—and the division
may be found strongly marked in the brains of all the
higher animals. Spurzheim found by dissection, that
the fibres of the anterior pyramidal bodies of the oblong-
ata, expanded into and constituted the anterior lobes of
the brain. And he contended that the middle and pos-
terior lobes originated in the other two parts of the ob-
longata.
*'
4. Each hemisphere has a great lateral ventricle,
REPORT. 19
and this ventricle presents an appearance which has
been denominated tricornes, or three horns, anterior,
middle and posterior."
6. In a note which the committee have received from
Mr. Grimes, it is said that Spurzheim considered the
spinal cord as having three commissures, anterior, mid-
dle and posterior. And also, that the functions of the
body are subdivided by some physiologists into three
classes. Broussais divides them into those that relate to
the individual, those that relate to the species, and those
that relate to the acquisition of knowledge.
" Second. The natural history of animals is all in har-
mony v*^ith this classification.
" 1. The three powers, viz. Amativeness, Alimentive-
ness and Individuality, which constitute the foundation
of the three classes, are manifested by all animals. No
animal, however low in the scale of beings, is destitute
of these three.
"2. The organs of these powers are found in the very
base of the brain
:
Amativeness at the lowest posterior ;
Alimentiveness at the lowest middle, and
Individuality in the centre of the lowest front part
of the brain.
" 3. In the Social class, if we begin at Amativeness, we
find it manifested by all animals. If we proceed up-
ward and forward, according to the arrangement of the
powers, until we arrive at Credenciveness,we shall trace
the progress of society, from its very lowest stage, up
through every grade of animals, to its highest perfection
in the most polished circles of human society.
In the Ipseal class, if we commence at Alimentive-
20 REPORT.
ness, we see it manifested by all animals ; and if we
proceed upward, according to the arrangement of the
powers, we find the first and second ranges of Ipseals
manifested by the lowest classes of animals; the third
range is manifested by the higher and more sagacious
animals ; and the fourth range is fully manifested only
in man, Und in his brain only is it found fully developed.
" In the intellectual class, if we commence at Indivi-
duality, we see it manifested by the very lowest animals;
and if we proceed upwards, according to the arrange-
ment of the powers, we shall perceive that the organs
rise and expand out of each other, in a manner strictly
agreeing with the progressive intelligence of animals
;
Causality, the highest of this class, being manifested in
a vigorous and efficient manner only by man, the very
highest and most complicated of organized beings.
" Third. 2. The Ipseal propensities produce those
actions only which have for their object the nourishment,
protection, improvement and happiness of the individual.
" 2. The Social propensities originate those actions
only, which have for their object, the production, the es-
tablishment, and the government of society, and con*
formity to its useful regulations.
"3. The Intellectual faculties acquire knowledge, and
point out the means by which the propensities may be
gratified."
The considerations which Mr. Grimes has pre-
sented in support of his division of the cerebral organs
into three classes are of three kinds :
—
Anatomical
Structure, Natural History of Animals, and Analy-
sis OF THE Mental Powers. Of these, the committee
have been unable to perceive the value which Mr.
REPORT. 21
Grimes seems to attach to the anatoinicalfacts. As a class
of truths, they harmonize with this classification, and
may therefore be said to lend it some support ; but alone
they must be regarded as far from contributing sufficient
ground for this division. The occurrence of the fun-
damental organs of each class at the base of the brain,
and the regular gradation of the powers, from Amative-
ness to Credenciveness, through the socials; from Ali-
mentiveness to Hopefulness, through the Ipseals ; and
from Individuality to Causality, through the Intellectu-
als, corresponding with the succession of animals in the
scale of beings, from the lowest orders up to man, are
certainly in beautiful harmony with, and go to sustain
the last and most important consideration upon which
the classification rests. In the analysis, Mr. Grimes shows
that all the powers of each class perform certain specific
functions that have a generic character in common. All
the powers of the Ipseal class are related to the individu-
al, those of the Social class to society, and th-ose of the In-
tellectual class to knowledge. He also shows that each
of the powers of the several groups in each class have a
sub-generic character in common. The first four sor
cials, Amativeness, Parentiveness, Adhesiveness and
Inhabitiveness, have for their object the continuation of
the species and the establishment of society ; those cf
the governing group. Imperativeness, Approbativeness,
Firmness and Conscientiousness, have for their object
the maintenance of government in society, and the ad-
ministration of justice ; those of the conforming group,
Submissiveness, Kindness, Imitativeness and Creden-
civeness, have for their object the perfection of society,
by "obedience to government, condescension and kind-
22 REPORT.
ness to all our associates, and conformity to their man-
ners, habits and opinions." In the Ipseal class, he
shows that the powers of the corporeal range are related
to the nourishment and preservation of the body; that
those of the carnivorous range are most strongly mani-
fested in the animals that feed upon flesh, and procure
it by the destruction of life ; that Cautiousness in the
herbivorous range characterizes the peace-seeking, ru-
minating animals;* that those of the rodentia range
distinguish the whole order of animals to which the bea-
ver and squirrel belong ; that those of the human range
are fully developed only in man. He makes Play-
fulness the link in the Ipseal chain, which connects
man with the lower animals ; the other organs of this
range being exclusively human. He shows that men
who have a developement corresponding with that of
animals belonging to either the carnivora, herbivora, or
rodentia, are, so far as their Ipseal character is concern-
ed, enstamped with the dispositions peculiar to the car-
nivorous, herbivorous, or gnawing animals. The Intel-
lectual class, with the exception of a division into ran-
ges, he considers as a whole, and treats the organs in
their order of succession, commencing at Individuality,
and proceeding through the first and second ranges of
perceptives to the reflectives.
From this hasty view of the principal systems of ar-
rangement among the powers of the mind which have
hitherto received attention, the committee pass to the
more direct comparison of the classification of Mr.
* Secrctivcncss is thought by Mr. Grimes to distinguish the Herbivora. It
is also manifested in a high degree by the Carnivora. The essential question,
however, is whether the associated organs perform analogous functions.
REPORT. 23
Grimes with that of Dr. Spurzheim. In doing this, it
may be well to notice some of the principles of classi-
fication in nature, since correspondence with them can
alone give perpetuity to any system, and since they con-
stitute the only true standard of merit. Among those
which, in phrenology, are obviously important, may be
enumerated the following:
I. Powers immediately related in functional character
should be arranged in the same division.
II. Powers not directly related, but differing in attri-
butes, should be arranged in different divisions.
III. The order of succession of the organs anatomi-
cally considered, and the relationship of the powers ac-
cording to metaphysical analysis, should harmonize with
each other.
If a classification is defective when viewed in the
light of either of these principles, it is manifestly im-
perfect ; and that classification against which, when
tested by these principles, there are found fewest objec-
tions, is the most perfect.
In noticing Spurzheim's classification, it was observed
that Language, manifestly low in the scale of percep-
tives—inasmuch as it is possessed by almost every indi-
vidual of the animal kingdom, and the organ of which
is at the very base of the brain—is ranked next to the
reflectives. It was also seen, that Alimentiveness, a
propensity related wholly to the individual, is associated
with Amativeness and Philoprogenitiveness, which are
beyond question related to the species. He has placed
in separate subdivisions, Adhesiveness, Approbativeness
and Benevolence, making the first an animal propen-
sity proper, the second an affective power common to
24 REPORT.
man and animals, and the last a power proper to man.
While it is plain that Adhesiveness characterizes man,
even in his higher walks, as much as animals, and more
so than most, and that Approhativeness, though common
to man and some animals, cannot be claimed to be
possessed by all inferior creatures, it is equally plain,
from facts adduced by Gall, Spurzheim and Combe, that
Benevolence distinguishes several orders of lower ani-
mals. This view leaves the alternative of regarding
those instances where animals present a developement
of the powers not in conformity with the classification,
as exceptions to a general rule, or as considering the
lines of distinction as improperly drawn. As no ar-
rangement like the above is proposed by Mr. Grimes,
none of the above objections apply with force to his clas-
sification.
Since the authors of the classifications before us draw
the same line, and give it the same direction between
the intellectual faculties and the affective faculties, or
propensities, the further question of relative merit re-
solves itself into the following inquiries.
1. Is the distinction between sentiments and propen-
sities maintained by Spurzheim, founded in nature ?
2. If it be not founded in nature, are all the powers of
the Jpseal class according to Grimes, related to the indi-
vidual ; and are all the powers of the Social class relat-
ed to society?
1. Combe says in his remarks upon what distinguish
sentiments from propensities, that "Acquisitiveness is
a mere impulse to acquire; but Veneration gives a ten-
dency to worship, accompanied with a particular emo-
tion." Acquisitiveness is made the representative of
REPORT. 25
all the animal propensities, and Veneration of the moral
sentiments ; and the argument based upon them is ap-
plied to the two genera.
It is true that the evidence here to be adduced is in
consciousness, and therefore may perhaps be thought
difficult to present ; but as the laws of the mind are im-
mutable, and as the germ of every mental power is pos-
sessed by every sound mind, it may be fairly presumed
that testimony upon a point of such importance is not
altogether shut out from view. Let there be taken
Firmness from the moral sentiments, and Combativeness
from the animal propensities. When the former is in
action, the possessor feels an impulse to resist the influ-
ence of others, and to maintain any position he may have
assumed—a tendency to fixedness—and this feeling or
impulse is called an emotion. When the latter is arous-
ed, the possessor feels an impulse to oppose whatever
may be in his pathw^ay. Now between the two, is there
any difference beyond the particular charactex of the at-
tribute ? Is there any thing amounting to a superad-
dition ? If there be not, this distinction of Spurzheim
ie without existence in nature.
2. Are all the powers of the Ipseal class, according
to Grimes, related to the individual, and those of the
Social class to society ? In other language, it may be
asked, could each power of the Ipseal class be brought
into legitimate exercise, though the whole species be-
sides the individual w^ere annihilated—and could any of
the Social class be legitimately exercised without the
[being of society ?
A detailed reply to these interrogatories would involve
[an analysis of all the powers of the two classes, a task
3
26 REPORT.
whose execution it cannot be conceived could be brought
within the limits of this report.
That these two generic functions are respectively cha-
racteristic of the two classes, it may be remarked, is
not denied, since Carmichael and Besseires have ad-
mitted its truth among the lower powers of the two
classes, though they were unable to perceive its exten-
sion through the whole. From a careful examination of
the analyses, the ground of distinction between the two
classes, and their limits seem to be well established.
The subdivisions of the two classes appear among the
obvious arrangements of nature. Of the Ipseals, the
corporeal range has relation clearly to the demands of
the physical system. So nearly allied in function are
Combativeness and Destructiveness, that the language
of their respective analyses almost seems to be applica-
ble to a single power. No two, in many respects, ap-
pear so nearly related as Secretiveness and Cautious-
ness ; and the propriety of associating Acquisitiveness
and Constructiveness is obvious, for the hoarding of pos-
sessions demands a place of reception. The powers of
the last range, according to Grimes' analyses, appear aill
related to the improvement and the perfection of the in-
dividual; they seem to point to higher and nobler
spheres of action than any of the preceding ranges, and
are therefore justly separated from the lower powers.
Of the Socials, all the powers of the establishing
group have for one, the distinguishing generic character
expressed in the name under which they are arranged.
This remark is equally true of the governing and con-
forming groups.
While the division of the powers into three classes.
REPORT. 27
and their subdivision into ranges and groups, may be
considered important and useful, the distinguishing fea-
ture, and that which to the committee constitutes the
highest merit of the new classification, consists in this,
that it traces the chain of functional relationship, from
the lowest organ to the highest of each class.
If Mr. Grimes' classification is founded in nature, the
following are some of the advantages which may be ex-
pected from its adoption.
1. It -will facilitate the application of phrenological
principles in deciding upon character from an examina-
tion of the head. Upon noticing the predominance of
one class of organs, it may be said of the individual thus
marked, he is Ipseal, Social, or Intellectual ; or, upon
observing two classes prevailing over the third, it may
)e said, he is Ipseal and Intellectual, or Social and In-
tellectual, or both Ipseal and Social. The same princi-
le will be applicable in speaking of the developement
of one group, or of two groups of the Socials, and also of
the ranges of Ipseals and Intellectuals. The effects of
a combined developement of particular groups in the dif-
ferent classes will be more readilj/- understood.
2. It will aid analysis, in ascertaining the ultimate
function of each organ. Upon knovv' ing its position, and
the relation it sustains to others—with what organ it
would probably act, and whether in the centre of a class,
or joined to organs of other classes, its manifestations
will be more readily perceived, and more clearly com-
prehended.
3. It will aid in discovery, by directing the eyes of all
phrenologists to limited regions of the brain, when in
search for the seat of a faculty, in whose existence they
28 REPORT.
have been induced to believe. For example, if the seat
of a supposed power related to corporeal wants be
sought, the attention will be directed to developements
and deficiencies in the corporeal range. If the function
pf the organ occupying the region marked upon the bust
of Mr. Combe as unknown, be the object of discovery,
. severat aids will be aflbrded. It must, in the first place,
be either Ipseal or Social; and in the second place, it
must be either a Social of the conforming group, or an
Ipseal of the human range.
4. It will furnish phrenology with new claims to the
character of an established science ; and by its simplici-
ty and consistency,- will induce the student to pursue its
investigation with the same kind of satisfaction that
now attends his study of the older sciences.
In contilusion, the committee state, that distrusting
.their own abilities to discharge the duties assigned
them, they" entered into correspondence upon the ques-
tion to be determined with several phrenological writers.
They have also examined all the published Vv^orks relat-
ing to the subject which they could command. And
with these materials before them, after weighing the
whole matter, the result is the opinion, that the classifi-
cation of Mr. Grimes is a decided improvement, as it ar-
ranges the powers of the mind more nearly in accord-
ance with the laws of natural relationship than any of
the systems w^hich have preceded it.
E. N. HOKSFORD,
Chairman of Committee on
Grimes' Classification,
/>
