{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__gibbes_cummins___the_road_to_immortality.pdf","mytitle":"The Road To Immortality","mylang":"de"}
r --
vi THE ROAD
TO IMMORTALITY
Being a description of the After-life
purporting to be communicated by the late
F. W. H. Myers
through
GERALDINE CUMMINS
Foreword by
SIR OLIVER LODGE, F.R.s., n.sc.
With evidence of the survival of
human personality
by
E.)J. GIBBES
LONDON
IVOR NICHOLSON & WATSON, LTD.
4+ ESSEX STREET, W.C.z
1933
First published October 1932
&printed April 1933
Printed in England at
The Westminster Press
4na Harrow Road
London, W.9
Chap. I
II
III
CONTENTS
FoREWORD, by Sir Oliver Lodge
INTRODUCTION, by E. B. Gibbes
PART I
Comment
Why?
The Chart of Existence
The Plane of Illusion
IV Consciousness
v The Plane of Colour (the World of Eidos)
VI The Group-soul
VII The Plane of Flame
VIII The Plane of White Light
IX Out Yonder, Timelessness
X The Universe
XI From the World of Eidos
XII The Incident of Death
XIII The Evolution of the Psyche
PART II
XIV Free Will
XV Memory
XVI The Great Memory
5
page 7
17
29
30
33
35
so
54
62
67
71
72
74
77
78
91
97
99
105
CONTENTS
PART II (continued)
Chap. XVII Attention
XVIII The Subliminal Self
page I07
I09
XIX Sleep II5
XX Telepathy I20
XXI The Interpenetration of Thought between the
Two Worlds I23
XXII Happiness I 29
XXIII God is Greater than Love I 32
PART III
A Record of some Cross-references between
Mrs. Osborne Leonard and Miss
Geraldine Cummins I35
SU~Y I57
APPENDICES (F. W. H. M.)
I On the Writingofthe Cleophas Scripts I75
II The Psychic's Light ISO
III A Sitting from "the Other Side" IS3
IV Difficulty of Communicating Earth
Memories ISS
v Animal Survival I S9
INDEX I93
6
FOREWORD
by
SIR OLIVER LODGE
''A civilisation which resigns itself wholly to
materialism lives upon and consumes its moral
capital, and is incapable of renewing it • • •
unless psychical research can discover facts
incompatible with materialism, materialism
will continue to spread. No other power can
stop it, both revealedreligionandmetaphysical
philosophy are equally helpless before the
advancing tide."-PROFESSOR McDouGALL.
FOREWORD
MISS GERALDINE CUMMINS is a fairly well-known amateur
trance-writer; that is,one who through withdrawal of con-
sciousness is controlled so as to writeonmatters outside his
or her own knowledge. My first experience ofthis kind of
writing was obtainedwhen I made a study of Mrs. Piper's
scriptandactedas"theexperimenterincharge,"asnarrated
in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXIII, 1909, especially pages
131-134. The experimenter in charge in the case of Miss
Cummins is her friend Miss Gibbes, with whom she lives
when she comes over from Ireland to this country. One
of the controls who frequently uses Miss Cummins's hand
recently purported to summon my friend F. W. H. Myers,
sothathe mightgiveinformationofa speciallyexalted char-
acter. F. W. H. Myers was not known in the flesh to either
of theladiesconcerned,buthe thencontributed a consider-
able amount of script, which seemed to have some value.
Accordingly Miss Gibbes wrote to me to know if I
would read some of the script and see whether I thought
it reasonable to attribute the substance of the writing to
this source. On examination I decided that it was in many
respects characteristic of F. W. H. Myers. The account
he gives of the group-soul, for instance, is very much in
accord with what he taught or discussed with me when he
was here. So are the kinds of remark which he makes on
the subjects of the subliininal self and reincarnation: they
too are sufficiently consistent with his views formed when
here. And in general, though some {)f the things said are
puzzling or even superficially discomposing, and though,
as he admits, they may not be absolutely correct, yet they
are worthy of his intelligence, and if properly understood
are instructive.
9
FOREWORD
To clinch matters, I took an opportunity, when having a
private sitting recently with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, to
askmyoldfriend Myers,whowas in touchwith me through
Raymond, whether he knew anything about Miss Cum-
mins's writing, and whether he adhered to the things he
was represented as saying in her script. His reply was to
the effect that he had communicated through her, and that
in a general way he had managed to get through what he
wanted;though he admitted itwas difficult,and hecouldn't
be sure that it was always exact, but still on the whole he
was willing to pass it as fairly representing what he had
intended to say.
In particular I asked the intelligence purporting to be
Myers whether or in what sense, when speaking about the
different spheres or planes or states characteristic of the
Mter-life, he really meant to speak of the third, or what is
sometimes known as Summerland, as "the Plane of Illu-
sion." I know that its inhabitants say it is extraordinarily
like the earth, that they have flowers and trees and houses,
and can get anything they want by merely wishing for it,
which seemed rather strange, but I was not prepared to
think of it as a world of illusion wherein all such objects
of sense were illusory.
In his reply, conveyed mainly through Raymond, I
gathered that these mundane things were felt to be natural
and homely by those who had recently gone over, and so
were permitted as a temporary environment, much as our
physical surroundings down here are temporary and not
really what they seem. Sir Arthur Eddington has empha-
sised this scientific view about our ordinary surroundings,
pointing out that,say,a table that feels solid and substantial /'
and continuous is really a multitude of whirling electrons
with great spaces between them, and that when we stand
on the floor we are bombarded upwards and supported by
a great multitude of little blows delivered by the atoms
beneath our feet. None of this is apparent to the ordinary
IO
----------
FOREWORD
person. Scientifically matter can be interpreted in this
fashion, but for the ordinary purposes of life we interpret
it in a more customary way-a way which we have grown
used to, and which is the way it may be said to appeal to
our coarse-grained sense-organs. This faculty of inter-
pretation has become part of ourselves, and so we carry
it with us, and are liable to interpret other things after a
similar homely fashion, so that,. wherever we find our-
selves, we are liable to interpret our surroundings in an
ordinary human way: thus there is no great shock or
violent transition in passing over, and we can continue to
preserve our feeling of identity. We carry with us, in fact,
not only our memory, character, and affection, but our
powers of interpretation also. Hence our surroundings
will still appear of a terrestrial kind; and whatever element
of il.lusion there is about our perception of objects down
here, that same kind of illusion persists into the next state,
so long as it may be necessary for our comfort. It is evident
that the denizens of the third plane do not consider their
perceptions as illusory, any more than we do here. Only
to a denizen of some higher stflte do ordinary objects,
both there and here, appear evanescent and shadowy,
somewhat after the hackneyed but instructive Platonic
image of the cave and the prisoners and the shadows. We
are not transported to the full blaze of reality all at once.
The accounts which Myers goes on to give ofthe fourth,
fifth, sixth, and seventh states are remarkable, but I see
no reason to dissent from the view that they are the kind
of ideas which Frederic W. H. Myers may by this time
have been able to form. I asked him whether I should
write an introduction to the book and he assented.
It will only be fair if I give an extract from my record of
this Leonard sitting, wherein I noted down, as nearly as
possible verbatim, what was said at the time. The utter-
ances towards the end of the extract were hasty and short,
as the power was beginning to get weak. Raymond did
II
FOREWORD
most of the talking for Myers, whom he affectionately
calls "Uncle Fred."
[Extract from the record ofa sitting which 0. J. L. alone
had with Mrs. Osborne Leonard in Kent on the nth of
March, 1932, near the end of a two-hour sitting and after
much family and personal conversation.]
O.J. L. Raymond, Myers is thought to have been talk-
ing through Miss Cummins, and says your plane is a plane
of illusion. Is that all right? Is it he talking?
Raymond. Yes, he has been talking through that person.
I want to talk to you on that subject. Uncle Fred is here,
and will stop me if I say wrong. I'm on the line at the
moment. Father, we're obliged to create conditions, and
what you might call things, on our plane. They've only
got a temporary life. They are illusions, something to the
same extent as a materialisation is an illusion. On your
_side you have something material for the time being. It's
something natural in appearance, in feel, apparently in
every way, it appeals to the senses of this body (touching
me, 0. J. L.). On our side we are bound to create certain
things, houses, clothes, partially for the time being, in
order to make a satisfactory harmonious and suitable
setting for the soul to live in and work in. And they be-
come a medium ofexpression. Sois yourhome, yourstudy,
everything. You're so used to it, you will find yourself
more easily able to work under similar conditions. It's one
of the necessary illusions of our life.
O.J. L. Then you live in a world of illusion?
Raymond. So do you, father; in the right sense of the
word you do too. We live in what you might call an exten-
sion ofthe illusory world in which you live. The outer rim
of it. We are in touch with a world of reality because we
are in the outer rim of the world of illusion. We're more
sure of the world of reality than you are. Father, the spirit
universe is the world of reality. Spirit and mind both
I2
FOREWORD
belong to the world of reality. Everything else, that is,
external things, are in a sense necessary for a time, but
superfluous and only temporary in existence as far as the
world ofreality goes-which is external and indestructible.
Spirit and mind belong to that world. The world of ether
is only created by the power of mind. We are not entirely
free from your world of matter, we are more independent
of it, but are still concerned with it.
O.J. L. You've got something physical in your world?
Raymond. Yes, father, physical. Uncle Fred has always
maintained that we have.
0. J. L. Would you call it etheric?
Raymond. Yes, it's a difficult word. The ether world
has been explored so little. There are so many worlds
within worlds within the world of ether. But you see,
father, mind is operative in the world.
O.J. L. Always operating in that world, I believe.
Raymond. It is, always. And it can create the illusion of
anything that is necessary to its development, to the de-
velopment, let us say, of the soul. We mustn't forget the
soul. The soul is us,you, the essential you. Father, the soul
is the you that makes mistakes, that kicks over the traces,
that loves, that hates, that does good, and can do evil. The
spirit cannot be touched by anything evil. No, but the soul
needs a certain setting and surrounding and vehicle of ex-
pression. And mind creates them accordingly. So, father,
that much misunderstood word "illusion" must be applied
to our world and to yours.
O.J. L. Mind has created the things about here, then?
Raymond. Yes, father, not your mind, but the great
Architect's mind. We are all architects in degree. The
·greatest Architect of all created the world of matter, just
as He created the world of ether. Spirit and ether always
(together).
O.J. L. The ether is necessary for the spirit?
Raymond. I don't see how you can have one without the
13
FOREWORD
other. I've just asked Uncle Fred. He says you can't
separate them. He has just said that the. world of ether
belongs to the world of reality. But of course it permeates
and is part of your world too. Where there is life there is
ether.
0. J. L. It's the physical vehicle of life.
Raymond. Yes, those are Uncle Fred's words-the
physical vehicle of life. If we could make people under-
stand these few simple facts we should help them to
realise that when death comes, which the majority of
people fear, they will not be plunged into some unknown,
strange, terrifying-terrifying because so strange-con-
dition. They say: It won't be in the world that I know.
No, but it will be in a world of similar conditions. About
Nature, father. Nature belongs to the physical world.
We have flowers and trees on our side. Nature still im-
presses our world. On your side Nature is limited to the
plane of instinct: on our side to the plane of intelligence.
On the earth we see people living according to instinct.
We live because of our mind, our intelligence, not blind
instinct. We would say that the vegetable world and the
lower animal world live by instinct only. When you touch
a form of life that lives by intelligence, that rules and
governs its actions by mind, it belongs to, and has fitted
itself for, survival in the individual sense.
O.J. L. Acquired an individuality.
Raymond. Yes, father, there's the dividing line. We're
not condemning instinct, we are only relegating it to its
proper place, in the big scheme of things. Many things
happen on your plane, good things, through instinct. We
ho:ve enjoyed talking to you to-day, father. Uncle Fred
too, though he has been talking through me.
O.J. L. I'm going to see Miss Cummins to-day. You
spoke of sth, 6th, and 7th planes.
F. W. H. M. Yes, quite right. In the main I stand by it.
It's all that is possible under the circumstances.
I4 .
FOREWORD
0. J. L. They want me to write a Foreword.
F. W. H. M. Yes, that's all right.
(After this came domestic farewells, and the sitting
terminated.)
Thus fortified by independent testimony, I feel at liberty
to commend this book as a serious attempt to give inform-
ation about a future life and the stages through which
earnest people may expect to pass. There are lower stages
for people less developed or less well intentioned; but
those are not here referred to. It must be very difficult for
a communicator to give intelligible information about
other states of being, in brief form, to folk with no ex-
perience of them, and there may be some errors of inter-
pretation, but I believe this to be a genuine attempt to
convey approximately true ideas, through an amanuensis
ofreasonable education:characterised by ready willingness
for devoted service, and of transparent honesty.
April, 1932 OLIVER J. LODGE
I5
INTRODUCTION
by
E. B. GmBES
B
INTRODUCTION
THE contents of this book purport to be communicated
from another life by the late F. W. H. Myers, English
poet and essayist, who became classical lecturer at Trinity
College, Cambridge, in 1865. In 1882, together with Pro-
fessor Henry Sidgwick, Sir William Barrett and Edmund
Gurney, he founded the Society for Psychical Research.
He died in January 1901.
By means of what is called "automatic writing" these
communications have been taken down at three different
periods (1924-25, 1927 and 1931) by Miss Geraldine
Cummins, who, in the language of psychical research, is
styled the "automatist." The alleged "communicator,"
however (F. W. H. Myers), describes her as the "inter-
preter." This is an apt term, seeing that, in cases of mental
mediumship, the "inner mind" appears to be necessary
for the interpretation of messages and writings which
purport to emanate from the unseen world.
Miss Cummins is the daughter of the late Professor
Ashley Cummins,M.D.,of Cork and has lived most ofher
life in Ireland. She has played hockey for Ireland and is an
enthusiastic tennis player. She was educated privately,
has had no training in science, psychology or metaphysics,
being principally interested in the drama and in modem
literature. Her six brothers served in the Great War and
two were killed in action. She is not a professional medium.
She is the author of an Irish peasant novel, The Land
They Loved (published by Macmillan), and, in collabor-
ation, of two Irish folk plays produced at the Abbey
Theatre, Dublin. She is also a writer of psychic works.1
We became acquainted in 1923, and at the end of that
1 See Appendix I, p. I75·
19
INTRODUCTION
year commenced a series of experiments in automa-
tism.
Automatic writing has been proved to be a genuine
phenomenon in which the hand ofthe scribe writes matter
of which he or she at times may have no conscious know-
ledge. By this means the late Sir Edward Marshall Hall,
K.C.,becameconvincedof survival. Referring to automatic
writing he states: "I was and am convinced that there is an
existence beyond so-called death, and that there are means
of communication between the so-called dead and our-
selves...."
It is possible that certain people are "tuned in" to
higher vibrations and that, through such vibrations, the
so-called dead may communicate again with the world
they have left. I purposely refer to the departed as the
"so-called dead" because it is my emphatic belief-after
nine years of close study and investigation of the phenom-
enon of automatic writing-that the dead are not extinct
and that, given certain conditions, they are able to speak
with those still on earth.
Miss Cummins is a very remarkable automatist. Many
messages indicating the continued survival of human con-
sciousness after bodily death have been written by her.
Not only have facts been given which were unknown to
any present at the time of writing, and subsequently
verified, but she has also reproduced the characteristic
manner of speech and the personality of a number of
deceased persons whom she has never met. The said per-
sonalities were recognised by relatives when the writings
were forwarded to them. Brief examples of some of these
cases are given in a summary attached to this volume.
The method employed by Miss Cummins in order to
obtain the writings which comprise this book is as follows.
She sits at a table, covers her eyes with her left hand and
concentrates on "stillness." She describes the result of
such concentration in these words:
20
INTRODUCTION
" ... and soon I am in a condition of half-sleep, a
kind of dream-state that yet, in its peculiar way, has more
illumination than one's waking state. I have at times dis-
tinctly the sensation of a dreamer who has no conscious
creative control over the ideas that are being formulated
in words. I am a mere listener, and through my stillness
and passivity I lend my aid to the stranger who is speaking.
It is hard to put such a psychological condition into words.
I have the consciousness that my brain is being used by a
stranger all the time. It is just as if an endless telegram is
being tapped out on it. The great speed of the writing
suggests actual dictation, as though some already prepared
essay were being read out to my brain. But something
more than the faculty of amanuensis seems to be required.
Whatever intelligence is operating, it may use my sub-
conscious mind as an interpreter, may communicate in the
language of thoughts or images and not of words...."
Her right hand resting on a block of foolscap paper,
Miss Cummins soon falls into this light trance or dream-
state. When in this condition her hand begins to write. As a
rule her "control" makes a few introductory remarks and
announces that another entity is waiting to speak. Owing
to the speed at which the writing comes. and to the fact
that Miss Cummins is in this light trance, it is necessary
that someone should sit beside her in order to remove each
sheet of paper as it is filled up. Her hand is then quickly
lifted by me to the top of the new page thus exposed, and
the writing continues without a break.
In this manner Miss Cummins and I began these ex-
periments. I have witnessed the production by her on
paper of about fifty different personalities, all claiming to
be "dead," all differing in character and style. Therefore,
in view of the fact that Miss Cummins has reproduced the
psychological idiosyncrasies of people whom she has never
met, and in view of certain cross-references between her
21
INTRODUCTION
and Mrs. Osborne Leonard, it does not seem unreasonable
toattribute the automaticwritings published in thisvolume
to the source from which they claim to come.
At the time of the first indication of his presence Myers
was entirely unknown to us personally and we knew very
little about him. His death occurred thirty years ago, when,
in fact, the automatist was a small child. We did not
endeavour to get in touch with him, neither had we read
his famous book entitled Human PersonalityanditsSurvival
of Bodily Death, nor any of his other works.
It may be of interest to describe the manner in which
the following communications actually appeared on the
paper. The writing of the name "Frederic Myers" would
befollowedby a"goodmorning" or "good evening, ladies."
A little friendly conversation would then take place and
the request be made that the final sentences of the last
essay be read aloud. The heading to the next chapterwould
then appear on the paper, a line being firmly drawn under-
neath it. The contents of each chapter in question quickly
followed.
In nearly every instance these communications were
written without a break, and with no premeditation on the
part of the automatist. Neither Miss Cummins nor I had
any idea as to what would be written until the material
appeared on the paper. If the "psychic power" gave out,
the writing would break off in the middle or at the end of
a phrase. The actual writing is much larger than Miss
Cummins's normal calligraphy and there is no division
between the words. Generally speaking, the paragraphing
and punctuation have to be inserted later.
The entity who purports to have communicated the
following pages frequently expressed dissatisfaction with
the English language; showing irritation at the lack of
suitable words with which to convey his meaning-to
express conditions transcending those found in the earthly
state.
22
INTRODUCTION
Alleged communicators from the Unseen frequently
assert that the language used by them is conveyed by
thought. It is, therefore, the thought that is thrown, as it
were, into the automatist's or interpreter's inner mind,
and there it finds the words that express it.
In this connection the following quotation may be of
interest. It was written, without hesitation, by the alleged
Myers on the second occasion on which he purported to
write through Miss Cummins.
"The inner mind is very difficult to deal with from this
side. We impress it with our message. We never impress
the brain of the medium directly. That is out of the ques-
tion. But the inner mind receives our message and sends
it on to the brain. The brain is a mere mechanism. The
inner mind is like soft wax, it receives our thoughts, their
whole content, but it must produce the words that clothe
it. That is what makes cross-correspondence so very diffi-
cult. We may succeed in sending the thought through, but
the actual words depend largely on the inner mind's con-
tent, on what words will frame the thought. If I am to
send halfa sentence through one medium and halfthrough
·another I can only send the same thought with the sug-
gestion that a part of it will come through one medium
and a part through another. . . . We communicate an
impression through the inner mind of the medium. It re-
ceives the impression in a curious way. It has to contribute
to the body of the message, we furnish the spirit of it. In
other words, we send the thoughts and the words usually
in which they must be framed, but the actual letters or
spelling of the words are drawn from the medium's
memory. Sometimes we only send the thoughts and the
medium's unconscious mind clothes them in words."
The above explanation would seem to indicate that com-
munications purporting to come from the unseen world
must be in the form of a collaboration between communi-
23
INTRODUCTION
cator and medium. Obviously, therefore, the quality of the
messages would depend partly on the culture and vocabu-
lary ofthe mind and brain through which the alleged entity
is working. It naturally follows that, if a human mind of
limited ability is employed by a cultured communicator,
the said communicator would experience difficulty in
conveying to earth the exact translation of his thoughts.
This explanation, doubtless, accounts for the confusion
of ideas and trivial remarks which are sometimes reputed
to reach us from another world and which fail to convince
the public of the reality of the survival of human per-
sonality.
Reference has already been made to the speed at which
the writing comes. A few further details concerning its
production may be of interest. Take, as an example, the
somewhat abstruse essay on the Subliminal Self. The first
1,410 words of this essay were written in approximately
one hour and five minutes. As a contrast, Miss Cummins's
normal compositions are laboriously put together, seven
or eight hours sometimes having been devoted to the
writing of, perhaps, 8oo words.
The sittings for automatic writing occupy about one
and a half hours, but on some occasions have extended
to two hours or more. As many as 2,6oo words have been
communicated without a break in the space of two hours.
On another occasion, in the presence of five witnesses,
Miss Cummins wrote z,ooo words in an hour and a
quarter. This applies to historical material written by
her.
Descriptions of the life after death have been given
through various channels, but these are frequently con-
demned as being too material in character and bearing too
great a resemblance to the earth existence. They are,
therefore, unacceptable to a large public. The matter
placed in the forefront of this book also relates to the life
Beyond, but it appears to explain much that, to many, has
24
INTRODUCTION
hitherto sounded trivial and unattractive. The alleged
communicator particularly states that he is not infallible
-that he endeavours to write of "the truth as I perceive
it."
It has been claimed that communication between dis-
carnate beings and human beings has been disproved
because "all alleged pronouncements have been either
ridiculous or non-significant."
I submit that the contents of this book are neither
ridiculous, non-significant, nor trivial. For instance, the
analysis of the Subliminal Self (page 109) surely refutes
the claim that only matter of a trivial character is com-
municated, for, as Mr. Stanley De Brath, M.Inst.,C.E.
(editorof PsychicScience),writes of it:"Itwould be hard to
find more importantmatter-the constitution ofman in the
Beyond." And again: "When the physics of the ether are
better known, much ofwhat is said will, no doubt, fall into
sequence. There is no reason to suppose that the functions
of the psychic are less complicated than those of the
physical." Further, in reference to Part I, he states: "I
think I can recognise truth when I see it, and even though
I may not agree with every detail on a first reading in a
metaphysical system, which, nevertheless, is a system and
a logical one."
Communications which give an intelligent explanation
of the conditions of our next state of being, such as the
account which follows, must surely attract the attention
of thinking people. Commenting again on the book, Mr.
De Brath writes: "You have introduced me to a mode of
realisation which I have long desired to meet. It is some-
thing quite original and even stupendous.... These
communications are extraordinarily interesting. Whether
they are from F. W. H. Myers must remain an open ques-
tion for the present, but ifthey are, they will be recognised
as almost the first attempt to trace the age-long progression
of the human soul in the Unseen. "
25
INTRODUCTION
Further information as to how these writings originated /
and an account ofthe cross-references between Miss Cum- /.~
m.ins and Mrs. Osborne Leonard are printed at the end of··
this book..These would,atleast,seem to showthat the same
entity purports to speak through two different channels.
E. B. GmBEs
26
--~------- - - -
PART I
EXISTENCE AFTER DEATH
The short Comment, Parts I and II, which
follow, together with the Appendices, purport
to be communicated by the late F. W. H.
Myers, through Geraldine Cummins.
COMMENT
IN writing of that mystery men call "The Other World,"
"Existence after Death," or "Our Father's many Man-
s}o~s," I am, you will una~rstand, ri}~~-}?1-:Wh~tlkn,o.w,
W»~t~.d.py ll),y o:wn exp~t:J,ences. S '·can only endeavour
tO write of the truth as I perceive it. You must pardon me
if I seem to blaspheme, or if I seem merely to be treading
the path others have trod.
We are working, I hope, for the same end. We both feel,
perhaps, that if we can aad anything to the sum of human
knowledge, as regards man's spiritual nature, our pains _
and our labours are worth while. You and I may not have .~
the power to bring about sensational happenings, but at )£!).
least we can, in our small way, help in the furtherance of .~:"
the knowle~ge that th~re a~e yast ~orizons ~uit~ beyond i;l~.
our perceptwn, stretchmg hnutless mto the mfimte.
These stray remarks of mine are the expression of my
own "other world" knowledge. I can only retail to you
the truth as I know it. Many and varied are the conditions
that prevail when the soul comes alive in this world, or in
one of the states to which we are subject after death. I use
advisedly the term "comes alive" in connection with the
soul. For the soul seems to us as dead when it lives in its
body of clay as we would seem to the average agnostic. It
is certainly true that many of us shades almost doubt the
existence of a soul in the bodies of certain men and
women of the low animal kind, who live, in the physical
-sense, on earth at the present moment.
29
I
WHY?
THE RIDDLE OF ETERNITY
MANY wonderful speculations have been made about the
whence and whither of man's destiny. Few have directly
attemptedtodiscusswhy manwas created,why the material ,
universe spins apparently for ever and ever through space,
its elements ever continuing, nothing lost, seemingly im-
mortal, changing but in its imagery.
"A vast purposeless machine." Such was the epitaph the
scientist of the last century wrote of it, and in so doing
he declared the faith ofthe thinking men ofhisage, namely,
that there is no why. There is, therefore, no fulfilment.
Matter is the only reality. And this terror, a purposeless
mechanical drama of motion and life, must, with ghastly
monotony, play on for ever and ever.
Now, truth is far from us all, but it was immeasurably
remote from those who came to this melancholy conclu-
sion. However, if mind is accepted as existing apart from '
matter, there is a very definite prospect of discovering the
reason for the strange fantasy of existence.
First, it is necessary to define it, so far as is possible,
in one sentence. Ifthe contents of the following phrases be
taken as a working hypothesis, then we may find an answer
to the riddle of eternity.
Shadow and Substance:
Matter, Soul and Spirit:
Manifestation and its Source:
God, the Unifying Principle:
DisintegrationinMatter,ineverfiner andfiner Substance:
Unification again in Spirit.
30
WHY?
The spirit, or deeper mind, which nourishes a number
ofjourneying souls with its light is a thought of God. This
thought is individualised, but not in the human sense. It
is individual in that it has a certain apartness from its
Creator, the apartness of the created thing from the One
who gave it life.
Now, the mystic speaks of the god within him. This is
an entirely erroneous statement. The term God means
the Supreme Mind, the Idea behind all life, the Whole in
terms of pure thought, a Whole within which is cradled
the Alpha and Omega of existence as a mental concept.
Every act, every thought, every fact in the history of the
Universes, every part of them, is contained within that
Whole. Therein is the original concept of all. So it is pre-
posterous presumption on the part of the mystic to call his
own spirit God.
These myriad thoughts, or spirits, begotten by the
Mighty Idea, differ from one another; many of them,
nearly all, before they control and manifest themselves in
matter, are crude, innocent and incomplete embryos. They
must gather to themselves numberless experiences, mani-
fest and express themselves in uncountable forms before
they attain to completion, before they may know perfect
wisdom, true reality. Once these are acquired, they may
take on divine attributes and pass out Yonder, entering
within the Supreme Idea and becoming part of the
Whole.
The reason, therefore, for the universe and for all
appearances, for even the little mundane joys and sorrows
of human beings, is to be found in the term "evolution of
spirit," the need for complete fulfilment which can be
obtained through limitation, through the expression of the
spirit in form. For only through that expression can spirit
grow, developing from the embryo, only through mani-
festation in appearance can spirit obtain fulfilment. For
this purpose were we born, for this purpose we enter and
31
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
pass through myriad worlds or states, and always the
material universe is growing, expanding, giving fuller and
fuller expression to mind. The purpose of existence may
besummedup in aphrase-the evolutionof mindinmatter
that varies in degree and kind-so that mind develops
through manifestation, and in an ever-expanding universe
ever increases in power and gains thereby the true con-
ception of reality. The myriad thoughts of God, those
spirits which inform with life all material forms, are the
lowest manifestation of God, and must thus learn to be-
come God-like-to become an effective part of the Whole.
32
II
THE CHART OF EXISTENCE
THE following statement is an index, or rather an itinerary,
of the journey of the soul.
(1) The Plane of Matter.
(2) Hades or the Intermediate State.
(3) The Plane of Illusion.
(4) The Plane of Colour.
(5) The Plane of Flame.
(6) The Plane of Light.
(7) Out Yonder, Timelessness.
Between each plane or new chapter in experience there
is existence in Hades or in an intermediate state, when the
soul reviews his past experiences and makes his choice,
deciding whether he will go up or down the ladder of
consciousness.
(r) The Plane of Matter consists of all experiences in
physical form, in matter as known to man. These experi-
ences are not confined to the earth life. There are experi-
ences of a similar character in numerous starry regions.
Sometimes the body vibrates faster or slower than the
body ofman in such starry places. But the term "physical"
expresses its character and nature.
(3) The Plane ofIllusion is the dream period connected
with life passed on the Plane of Matter.
(4) The Plane of Colour. Existence in this state is not
governed by the senses. It is more directly controlled by
mind. It is still an existence in form, and therefore an
existence in substance. That substance is a very rarefied
matter. It might be called an air of matter. The Plane of
Colour is within the terrestrial zone or within the corre-
33 c
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
sponding starry zone wherein the soul previously had
experience of a physical existence.
(5) The Plane of Pure Flame. In this state the soul
becomes aware of the pattern his spirit is weaving in the
tapestry of eternity and realises all the emotional life of
those souls fed by the same spirit.
(6) The Plane of Pure Light. Within its borders the
soul obtains an intellectual conception of all the previous
existences within its group-soul. Further, he realises all
emotional life within the body of the world or earth-soul.
(7) Lastly, the Seventh Plane. The spirit and its various
souls are now fused and pass into the Supreme Mind, the
Imaginationof God, wherein resides the conception of the
Whole, ofuniverse after universe, ofall states ofexistence,
of past, present and future, of all that has been and all
that shall be.Herein is continuous and complete conscious-
ness, the true reality.
III
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
THE THIRD PLANE
BREVITY can be the soul of wit, but it can also be the soul
of error. It will be necessary for me to create a small
dictionary if I am to give you my views, in a few pages,
on that interesting topic, eternal life.
I shall first define the multitude of the newly dead,
those tumultuous wavesoflife thatbreak, dailyand nightly,
like the tides upon our shores. Birth and death are two
words which contain the same meaning. How strangely
they sound to me now; for I have lived so long in a state
in which words are obsolete, in which thoughts reign
supreme.
Roughly, the newly dead may be divided into three
categories:
Spirit-man,
Soul-man,
Animal-man.
There are many sub-divisions of these particular states
of grace or disgrace. But bear these three terms in your
mind, for to whichever one you belong so will your future
be determined.
Now I would classify conditions or surroundings.
Firstly, there is the earth life.
Secondly, the transition period known as Hades.
Thirdly, existence within an image or reflection of the
earth known to some as "Summer-land"; I prefer to call
it "Illusion-land."
Fourthly, all that life which is apparelled in form as it
35
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
is known to man, all those lives in ever finer and finer
bodies which are connected with the material universe.
Fifthly, a mental or intellectual existence within the
group-soul in which you envisage and experience-but
only as an act of emotional thought-all the stages of
existence that belong to those various souls fed by the same
spirit. I have spoken before of the group-soul and defined
it for you.1
Sixthly, a conscious existence within and without time;
the measure of time being all those lives that are passed in
form. It embraces existence in the most tenuous shapes;
it embraces experience in matter whatever its character or
degree.
Lastly comes the seventh state, the merging of the
journeying soul with its spirit. When you attain to that.
beatitude you pass into the Beyond, you realise the mean-
ing of the word immortality. Matter is transcended, cast
off. You enter into timelessness and become one with the
Idea behind all life, one with God, one with that portion
of His Spirit which has been connected with you in all the
planes of existence.
The Memory-'ltJorld
The earth is as a reflection in a mirror; it is real only
through the image that is cast upon the glass. The earth,
therefore, depends for its recognition upon the nature of
individual vision and perception. All men, who are in the
clay, are unreal, so they have power to perceive only in a
certain manner that strange illusion, the swiftly rotating
globe. When they shuffie off the heavy body, when in a
finer shape they take flight from it, they frequently do not
realise the fundamental unreality of earth. They hunger
for the dream which was home to them. Then these souls
knock and the door is opened, they enter into a dream
that, in its main particulars, resembles the earth. But now
1 See p. 6z.
36
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
this dream is memory and, for a time, they live within it.
All those activities that made up their previous life are
re-enacted, that is, if such is their will. They can, at any
time, if they choose, escape from the coil of earth memo-
ries, from what I might term the "swaddling clothes" of
·the life after death. For all these souls are as babies,
unaware of the real world of which they are inhabitants,
no more cognisant than are infants of the vast whirl of
life about them, of its astonishing intellectual activities, of
its achievements.
Such infant-souls frequently communicate with earth
when they are in a state almost analogous to the earth
sleep. They will then endeavour to describe their memory-
world. It is almost precisely similar to the one you inhabit
at the moment. Some call this memory-dream ''Summer-
land"-quite an apt term. For the soul, freed from the
limitations of the flesh, has far greater mental powers, and
can adapt the memory-world to his taste. He does so un-
consciously, instinctively choosing the old pleasures, but
closing the door to the old pains. He lives for a while in
this beatific, infantile state. But, like the baby, he inhabits
only a dream, and has no knowledge and hardly any per-
ception of the greater life in which he is now planted. Of
course the hour comes when his spiritual perceptions
awaken, when he seeks to escape from the memory-dream,
when, in short, he realises his own increased intellectual
powers, and, above all, his capacity for living on a finer
plane of being. Then he passes from the State of Illusion
and enters upon an existence which few communicating
intelligences have ever attempted to describe to man.
However, to those of us who have journeyed beyond
the memory-world this alleged region or heaven of the
departed is false because it is unreal, a reflection of
a reflection, a tenuous dream that fades before spiritual
knowledge. When the crossing of death is achieved many
are happy in that state ofgrace; but theirs is the vegetative
37
.THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
happiness, the unintelligent content of an infant who
knows little or nothing of the world in which he or she
lives.
Hades
Hades is a term which corresponds with the astral
plane. Immediately on the dissolution of the body there
comes a briefperiod ofseeming disintegration, a temporary
dislocation of those parts which make you one. Pray do
not conjure up unpleasant associations with Hades. I died
in Italy, a land I loved, and I was very weary at the time
of my passing. For me Hades was a place of rest, a place
of half-lights and drowsy peace. As a man wins strength
from a long deep sleep, so did I gather that spiritual and
intellectual force I needed during the time I abode in
Hades. Accordingto his nature and make-up everytraveller
from the earth is affected in a different or varying manner
by this place or state on the frontiers of two lives, on the
borders of two worlds.
Illusion
During the period passed on the astral plane the soul
sloughs the astral shape and enters into the etheric body
,within which he resides as long as he chooses to dwell in
Illusion-land, that reflection of reflections, that dream of
the earth-personality. Peace and content prevail so long as
he remains within its borders. But in time such peace
becomes wearisome; for no actual progress, either up or
down, can be made in that delightful region of dream.
Picture it for a moment: you live in surroundings that
resemble those you knew on earth. You are, it is true,
freed from moneyworries, freed from the need to earn your
daily bread. Your etheric body is nourished by light which .
is not the light of the sun. It is possessed also ofenergy and
life. It does not suffer pain, nor is it subjected to struggle
of any kind. It is indeed as if you lived in a pond, and soon
38
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
you weary of the limitations of that calm unruffied sheet
of water. You yearn for struggle, effort, ecstasy; you long
for wide horizons. The call of the road has come to you
again. In short, you are anxious to make further progress
either up or down. ·
Animal-man
If you are what I term Animal-man, in other words, if
you belong to the primitive type, you will make a corre-
sponding choice. You will desire to go downwards, that
is to say, you will choose to be an inhabitant of matter
as dense as the physical body you discarded when you
passed into Had~s. Usua!J~,J:~m:~~1\'l,t~~h. But I
am told that Anlmal. .'OC~toni!Iy piWers to enter a
material existence on some other planet in which matter
may be even denser than any earthly substance.
Huii1iJl beings e~csrtainJ!l~, but their material
bodies are subject to a different tim~rom the earth time,
and travel, therefore, within the rhythm ofthat time. Con-
sequently their physical parts are either vibrating slower
or faster than yours and may not be discovered through
the medium of man's senses. I call them human beings
because the conditions of their lives, the construction of
their physical parts, are similar to those of man.
The Resting Place on the Road
I stated that no progress was made in Illusion-land.
This is, in a sense, incorrect. No seeming progress is made.
Illusion-land is the dream of the earth-personality. For a
short while after his entry into that state the soul is at
peace, warring desires are quiescent; but they wake again
at the time the dream is beginning to break. In fact, when
these furies are roused they themselves break and shatter
the dream. For in Illusion-land Animal-man can satisfy
his desire for pleasure without any difficulty, without
struggle; so, swiftly, there comes satiety through the full
39
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
satisfaction of his paltry appetites: then there arises dis-
content, and he longs for a new life; he is thoroughly bored
by this resting place on the road. Thereby progress is
made, inasmuch as he has come to realise the limitations
of the earth-dream. On the other hand Animal-man has
very little awareness of the joys of the soul. Usually, at
this point, when longing for a new life with all his being,
he desires that it shall be one within the flesh, that it shall
be another episode passed in the grosser bodily forms. So
he goes downwards; but he descends in order to rise. His
experiences in the dream of the earth-personalityrouse the
high~r part of the self in him; During his~~Wf~iltiQDa,/
he wlll probably either enter mto the state o the Soul-man, '
or he will at least be less of an ailimal, and will seek an
existence and follow a life of a higher order than the one
he led when previously lodged in the flesh.
"Summer-land," then,is the dream of the earth-person-
ality,so it should not be regarded as either Heaven, Hades
or Hell, but merely as a resting place on the road when
the soul dreams back, and thereby summarises the emo-
tional and subconscious life of his earth existence. But he
dreams back in order that he may be able to go forward
once more on his journey.
The Prison of the Senses
Your present surroundings are, in asense, your creation,
in that you are mentally so unemancipated; your nerves
and senses convey to you your perception of life. If you
were capable of focusing your ego or daily consciousness
within your deeper mind, if in short you trained yourself
to. pass into a thought compound from which form, as the
senses convey it, were absent, the material world would
vanish. You would no longer perceive it. If you were
sufficiently developed spiritually you might be able to
escape form altogether, though actually this is not possible
until you have had numberless further experiences.
40
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
However, on higher planes of being your intellectual
power is so greatly increased that you can control form;
you learn how to draw life to it. As a sculptor takes up the
formless clay and shapes it, so does your mind draw life
and light to it and shape your own surroundings according
to your vision. In the first state your vision is limited by
your earth experiences and memories, and so you create
your own version of the appearances you knew on earth.
Understand, however, that in Illusion-land you do not
consciously create your surroundings through an act of
thought. Your emotional desires, your deeper mind manu-
facture these without your being actually aware of the
process. For still you are the individualised soul caught
within the limitations of your earthly self and caught
also within the :fine etheric body which now is yours.
The Man in the Street
. Men and women, as they climb the ladder of their life
in the fiesh, are, as it were, suspended between earth and
sky. They are between two mysteries, that of birth and
that of death. They fear to look downwards, they fear to
look upwards: as a rule all their attention must be given to
each rung of the ladder on which they seek to balance
themselves. So,even the most skilful among1;hemislimited
by his position upon the ladder, and :finds it difficult,
almost impossible, to consider what comes before and
what comes after the little space of years that makes up his
life in the world.
The same parallel may be applied to myriads of souls
who have passed through the gates of death. Life for them
is certainly on a far loftier and grander scale; but still they
dwell between mysteries. They are balanced between God
and their own world ofappearances. So, many of the dead
who endeavour to send messages descriptive of their sur-
roundings and of their life to living human beings, can
only describe the actual appearance of things about them,
41
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
can only write from out of that limited personality which
they brought with them from the earth.
If I chose to describe the After-life from the point of
view of Tom Jones who had been a lawyer's clerk and had
lived in London all his life, his mind and spirit bounded
by his law-work and his own little personality, I should
very probably give you what would appear to be a trite and
materialistic description of the Hereafter. For, as a rule,
Tom Jones is only able to communicate with human beings
while he is still in a very crude state of mental and spiritual
development. Usually he is like a blind puppy after birth.
He writes of what he cannot see. When perception comes
to him, when sight is bestowed on the eyes of his soul, he
does not, so far as I am aware, look towards the earth
again. He feels his own mental impecuniosity. He has not
the power to express in words, which he must borrow from
earth minds, the amazing character of life after death. So
he is silenced, and no echo comes from behind the dark
curtain which will even faintly convey the music of that
other life, yield to man the strange rhythm of a universe
within a universe, a life within a life, and all lying, as ships
in harbour, within the infinite imagination of God.
Tom Jones represents many millions. He is the conven-
tional worker, quite efficient in all matters connected with
his particular profession, but limited by it and by his life
of small amusements, by the lack of leisure which prevents
him from ever considering the ultimate purpose of life. As
a horse driven in harness and blinkers, so has he been
driven from the cradle to the grave. His life has not been
eventful. It contains a measure of sorrow and a measure
of laughter. What becomes therefore of this symbol of the
crowd? What becomes of Tom Jones, Mrs. Jones and Miss
Jones? It is far better for us in this study of "the Many
Mansions" of the Hereafter, first to consider the future of
the ordinary man and woman. Are they transformed in
the twinkling ofan eye? Do they become great seers highly
42
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
developed both spiritually and mentally? Or do they follow
out the law of evolution as it is known by men?
We must first answer these two questions. IfTom Jones
is changed by death intoagreat seer or into a lofty, spiritual
genius he is no longer Tom Jones. He cannot, therefore,
be said to survive death. However, I can assure you that
he follows the slow path of evolution; he is born into the
next world with al\.,hi.~Ji~t;i,e~.§:,,,:wJ#1all h~~LnJ-J19~~s
o~,9J!t!go]\.,.with. hi(l!!f~~2P~. ~~ !!i~~~~. He is,·in
sliort, thoroughly human. For sucii·a man a marvellous
and lofty existence of a spiritual character is scarcely
possible. He is still mentally in swaddling clothes. There-
fore he must be treated as the baby is treated in your world.
He must be carefully looked after and protected; he must
meet with no sudden or violent change. For he is not of a
sufficient spiritual and mental ripeness to be able to bear
it.
He belongs to agreatmultitudewho must, aswe describe
it over here, dream back in order that they may later on
go forward, proceed towards the ultimate goal, towards a
state of spiritual vision when they may enter the timeless
state, may pass out of the great cosmic picture and enter
within the mind of their Creator. But there is much to be
done by Tom Jones before he can, if ever, attain to that
condition. He is still an infant needing playthings like a
child, and, therefore, requiring about him a world of
appearances.
The more advanced souls-whom the Church may call
the angels and whom I call "the Wise"-can exist in
tenuous forms within vast vistas of space and lead within
it an extraordinarilyvivid existence.Tom Jones is quite in-
capable of facing such a strange and strenuous state of
being.
So we, who are a little more advanced than he, watch
by the gates of death, and we lead him and his comrades,
after certain preparatory stages, to the dream which he
43
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
will inhabit, living still, according to his belief, in earth
time. He bears within him the capacity for recalling the
whole of his earth life. Familiar surroundings are his
desperate need. He does not want a jewelled city, or some
monstrous vision ofinfinity. He craves only for the homely
landscape he used to know. He will not find it here in the
concrete sense, but he will find, if he so desires it, the
illusion.
The ~,as I call them, can draw from their memory
and fromihe great super-conscious memory of the earth
the images of houses and streets, of country as known to
these wayfarers so recently come from the earth. The Wise
Spirits think, and thereby make a creation which becomes
visible to Tom Jones. So, in those early days after his
passing, he is not cast into emptiness, into a void. After he
has slept in dimness, rested as in a chrysalis while his
etheric body is being shaped, he emerges as the butterfly,
coming into a world formed for him by the concentrated
thought of men of great spiritual discernment, for whom
~~nd no better term than "the~~~
· An image is drawn from the young soul's memories. It
isofacountryconsiderablymorebeautifulthan-butnotun-
like the countryTom Jones and his comrades have known.
This country is not real. It is a dream. But to Tom Jones
it is as real as was his office desk and the alarum-clock that
roused him in the morning, summoning him to his work.
It undoubtedly presents a more attractive appearance than
his little grey London world, but in essentials it is of the
same familiar stuff from which his England is made.
Within this dream he will find his friends, some. of his
own people,and those two or three persons he really loved;
that is, if they have already gone before him, been sum-
moned by death at.an earlier time.
Let us picture Tom Jones in surroundings that seem to
him material and therefore do not, in any way, arouse his
44
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
natural timidity. He is a simple soul and has led a clean,
respectable life, satisfying his desires in moderation. He
has spent seventy years of his life in a certain environment
on earth. Why should he, after parting with his physical
body, again occupy surroundings with which he is to a
great extent familiar? Why should he face another existence
of a similar character to the last?
In reality it is not similar. It is the period of a great and
slow change for Tom Jones. His life in the world, dating,
say, from x8so to 1920, corresponds with the germinating
life of a seed in the earth. When its first fresh green shoot
presses upwards towards the light, then he reaches the
end of his term of years, he is passing into another life.
The gardener, who has charge of him and of many other
little plants, places them, if they are suitable, in a forcing-
house when, as I have described to you, he introduces
them to a world of form similar in character to the one
they had previously known.
These wayfarers find themselves in familiar surround-
ings amongst people of a similar mentality. But they find
very frequently that their actual needs are not the same.
They are not condemned to some mechanically performed
task for the greater part of their existence, because their
etheric bodies do not require food. They draw what is
essential for their well-being from that all-pervading in-
visible substance. On earth men are slaves of the physical
body, and,therefore, slaves of darkness. IntheHereafter we
may truly say that, given certain conditions, they become
servants of the light. As food, or its equivalent money,
is not the principal object of their existence, they have at
last time to serve the light. That is to say, they are in a
position in which they can reflect at their leisure and begin
to reach towardsthisstrangeandmarvellouslife ofthe mind.
Now, with the dissolution of the body, at least one des-
perate, clamorous need has gone from us. We do not any
longer require the three or four meals a day that were of
~~~
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
such excessive importance. One primal factor in earth-life
is eliminated, and that is hunger. But we have other factors
of great importance to consider. After hunger there comes
~:·~J~, pe~~"a!s-~ ?!~~g;~t,:~~ ~~~h; fll~ ?iss~l~:~ion of
I think my answer, in most cases, should be in the
negative. It has not disappeared, but it is changed. And
here we come face to face with one of the great problems
in this period of transition.
First, it is necessary to attempt some definition of sexual
desire. It takes many forms. Some of these are perverted.
Let us deal with these perversions, and, in so doing, we
shall deal with what man calls sin. Cruelty perhaps cuts
more deeply into human nature than any other sex per-
version. It marks the human soul, scars it more deeply
than almost any other vice. The cruelmanwho has changed
his natural craving for affection into a longing to give pain
to others necessarily finds himself in a world here where
he cannot satisfy this craving. He has pandered to it during
all his earth life, and so it has become an integral part of
his soul. In the new life he has not, for a time at any rate,
the power to inflict pain on anything living. This means
for him, with his greatly increased mental powers, a very
terrible distress. He goes about seeking whom he may
devour and finding naught. The misery of such an un-
satisfied state is largely of a mental character. What use
to him is a world of light and beauty while still this foul
earth longing is unsatisfied? For him there is only one
release from his mental purgatory. And until he can find
a way of escape, until there is an actual change in his cold,
cruel soul, he will remain in outer darkness.
Christ spoke of that outer darkness as being the lot of
sinners. By this saying, He did not imply darkness as we
know it-the darkness recognised by the senses. He meant
a darkness of soul, a mental distress, a perverted desire
that cannot find its satisfaction.
46
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
Eventually this individual faces up to his own misery,
to his vice; and then the great change comes. He is put
in touch with a portion of the Great Memory which Saint
John has called the Book of Life. He becomes aware of all
the emotions roused in his victims by his acts. He enters
into a small part of the mighty Super-conscious Memory
of his generation which hovers near the earth. No pain, no
anguish he has caused has perished. Allhas beenregistered,
has a kind of existence that makes him sensible of it once
he has drifted into touch with the web of memory that
clothed his life and the lives of those who came into con-
tact with him on earth.
m 't~;f~l~~~~1i~lw~~e~{i~~If~~~~~~~d
b mtt.,-fli~fllfs's"'OliF'O't'i:&ta:oecomg:gt~cllially purl
fied through his identification with the sufferings of his
victims.
I have wandered away from the theme of Tom Jones in
order to explain what is meant by Christ's statement that
the sinner is cast into outer darkness where there is wailing
and gnashing of teeth. It is a mental darkness into which
the sinner plunges. His own perverted nature has drawn
this suffering upon himself. He had free will, the power to
choose, and, temporarily at any rate, he chose this mental
darkness in the After-life.
Now, I would give you one more illustration. Let us
take for example a man, or if you prefer a woman, who
has led an immoral life on earth. Here I may borrow a
saying of the angel who appeared to John: "He that is
filthy let him be filthy still."1 The man who comes into
this life with a sex history of a reprehensible kind finds,
when he enters the Kingdom of the Mind, that as his
mental perceptions are sharpened so his predominant
earth-desire is intensified, his mental power being far
more considerable. He can, at will, summon to himself
1 Rev. xxii. II.
47
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
those who will gratify this over-developed side of his
nature. Others of his kind gravitate to him. And for a time
these beings live in a sex paradise. But bear in mind that
it is created by their mental "make-up," by their memories
and their imagination. They yearn still for gross sensation,
not for that finer life, which is the spirit of sexual love,
that perfect comradeship without the gratification of the
grosser feelings.
They obtain it in abundance, and there follows a horrible
satiety. They come to loathe what they can obtain in excess
and with ease ; and then they find it extraordinarily difficult
to escape from those who share these pleasures with them.
A murderer comes into the category of such men. It is
a sudden perverted desire, a lust for cruelty which leads in
many cases to murder.
The last state in Illusion-land might be termed the
purgatorial state. Obviously, it is extremely painful to
rea~se the ~~~{, §!~~~,~9-SQWS,.,t9 ~~d of the
~~re;_:_:; here 1s one greater m1~rtune~
ilOil-reafls'iitiOrl""br the heart's desire and that is its realis-
ation. For human beings are so constituted that they are
almost invariably seeking a false dream, a will-o'-the-wisp,
and no permanent content can be obtained from its fulfil-
ment.
It is, of course, impossible to lay down an iron rule.
Each individual has a different experience from each other
individual in Hades and Illusion-land. In certain cases he
is not given the power to satisfy his desires. Actually, he is
able to do so, but his own ego does not permit such satis-
faction. For instance, the cold, selfish man in Illusion-land
may dwell in darkness, for it is not within the power of
his ego to throw itself outwards, to express itself in the
fantasy of fulfilled desires. He is thrown more than ever
inwards by the shock of death. He believes he has lost
everything. He loses contact with· all except the sense of
his own thinking existence. A nightmare of darkness pre-
48
THE PLANE OF ILLUSION
vails for a time, prevails as long as he lives within his
morbid sense of loss, within his desire, which is merely to
gratify himself without any regard for others. There may
be only night in Illusion-land for the abnormally selfish
man.
Nearly every soul lives for a time in the state of illusion.
The large majority of human beings when they die are
dominated by the conception that substance is reality,
that their particular experience of substance is the only
reality. They are not prepared for an immediate and com-
plete change of outlook. They passionately yearn for
familiar though idealised surroundings. Their will to live
is merely to live, therefore, in the past. So they enter that
dream I call Illusion-land. For instance, Tom Jones, who
represents the unthinking man in the street, will desire a
glorified brick villa in a glorified Brighton. So he finds
himself the proud possessor of that twentieth-century
atrocity. He naturally gravitates towards his acquaint-
ances, all those who were of a like mind. On earth he
longed for a superior brand of cigar. He can have, the
experience ad nauseam of smoking this brand. He wanted
to play golf, so he plays golf. But he is merely dreaming
all the time or, rather, living within the fantasy created by
his strongest desires on earth.
After a while this life of pleasure ceases to amuse and
content him. Then he begins to think and long for the
unknown, long for a new life. He is at last prepared to
make the leap in evolution and this cloudy dream vanishes.
49 D
IV
CONSCIOUSNESS
ON earth, consciousness is as a lamp lit each morning
when you awake. If you are in poor health the flame is
feeble, ifyou are young and vigorous it flares up and seems
to illumine every material object you meet, giving to it a
special and happy radiance.
This daily consciousness changes according to age and
experience. From one year's end to another it is never
quite the same, though you probably do not note its almost
imperceptible changes. It is that ego which sees, touches,
hears and is aware of the material world. I have already
told you that this fantastic being is a sum in arithmetic.1
After death, and after the stages of transition, that ego,
with certain important changes, again resumes its sway.
Whatever the plane of being on which it arrives, it is now
a traveller who has discarded flesh and blood, the brain
cells, the intricate web of nerves which brought unity and
proportion to the body, which made of it a kingdom. In
its place there is a very much finer shape. This shape
also possesses its means of communication, and these feed
the whole of the new structure of very subtle atoms. It is,
as I have said, a structure so rare, so fine, that it is invisible
to the mortal eye and eludes the finest instruments of the
scientists.
Actual pain is not felt in any of the parts of this new
image of man. For now the mind has greatly increased
powers, and though it may experience pain in the spiritual
or intellectual sense, such is its control of its outward form
on the Fourth plane that form cannot hurt it in the earthly
1 See" The Subliminal Self," p. 109.
so
CONSCIOUSNESS
or physical sense, cannot be, in any respect, the ruler.
You will realise, therefore, that an important advance has
been made. On the other hand,manhasstilltopass through
many states, to experience numberless lives before he
draws near the goal, before he reaches out towards fulfil-
ment.
Roughly, I may define his consciousness for the greater
part of his journey as follows: spirit or higher soul, ego or
lower soul, and their manifestation in form.
There is also what I might call the ladder of conscious-
ness. The rungs of the ladder represent the various lives
from the alleged beginning to the final achievement;
though it is not for me to say that there is any finality.
When I use the term "final" I merely desire to indicate
the limits of my vision. Now, the soul or ego is the actual
self or surface awareness on each rung of the ladder; the
spirit is the light from above. It illumines every rung of
the ladder, embraces the whole. The soul, then, is merely
the part, the gatherer of experience, the representative of
the mystery behind all life.
The higher the ego climbs on the ladder of conscious-
ness, the nearer it draws to other kindred souls. I have
already told you that there may be a thousand, a hundred,
or merely twenty souls all fed by one spirit.1 Their con-
sciousness of comrade-souls increases on.the higher levels
of existence. In time they are able to enter into the other
souls' memories, perceive their experiences and be
sensible of them as if they were theirs. Mind becomes
communal in the last stages, for the spirit, the unifying
principle, is tending all the time to produce greater har-
mony, and therefore greater unity. These various indi-
viduals are merging more and more, becoming one in
experience and in mind, and thus attaining to undreamt-of
levels of intellectual power.
On the lower rungs ofthis ladder of consciousness dwell
1 See" The Group-Soul," p. 62.
SI
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
those souls who still cling to human habits of thought, to
the earthly personality, to their own individual line of
ideas. On earth some of them have been extremely
learned. But knowledge does not make a wise man. A
great Indian Yogi, a Chinese sage, a learned or holy
Christian father may dwell for aeons of time within the
Thirdand FourthSuper-terrestrial States. They aretypical
representatives of Soul-man, and they have his short-
comings. They cling to the line of thought which was
theirs on earth, and so they remain sadly individualised in
it; they are caught in its dream, and are snared in the many
errors thereof. For instance the Indian Yogi and the
Chinese sage may still seek only to follow the aspiration
of their particular religion or philosophy, the freeing of
th~ soul from matter, ecstatic contemplation of the
umverse.
They appear to gain their aspiration; but in consequence
they abide merely on one of the lower rungs of the ladder.
They believe that they have attained to Nirvana, that they
have passed out Yonder, entered into the Mystery of God.
But they have done nothing of the kind; for they are still.
individualised, still clinging to their blissful little dream
created when they were on earth. They are living in the
stagnant pond. They are progressing neith~r up nor down.
They have no contact with the material aspect of the uni-
verse, and their state of alleged ecstatic contemplation
narrows and limits experience, confines them still in the
prison of their own ego.
I remarked before that when souls reached to the higher
rungs of the ladder they became merged in the unifying
Spirit, and might at last journey out Yonder, enter into
the Mystery of God. In so doing they slough form and no
longer express themselves in an outward appearance. But
those spirits who pass out Yonder do not dwell in ecstatic
contemplationas does the sage or theYogi, theyare,though
formless, in contact with the whole of the material uni-
52
CONSCIOUSNESS
verse: an incredible activity of a spiritual and intellectual
kind is theirs. For now they share in thetimeless Mystery;
now they are in the true Nirvana, in the highest Christian
Heaven; they know and experience the alpha and omega
of the material universe. The chronicle of all planetary
life, the history of the earth from the beginning to the end
are theirs. Truly they are not merely heirs, they have be-
come inheritors, in deed and in truth, of eternal life. You
are, as you climb the long ladder of consciousness, a sum
in arithmetic. When you pass out Yonder you become the
Whole.
The spirit, which lights up the ladder, is an individ-
ualised thought of God, a thought that may dwell within
its own life, or that may still be in intense and direct
contact with God when that thought contacts directly the
human ego. A Spirit-man is a human being-of whom
perhaps a few score have appeared on earth since time
began. He differs from others in that his spirit retains that
intense and direct inspiration from God when it enters
into time and communicates with the incarnate man.
Therefore, Spirit-man alone has expressed eternal truth,
either in his life or in his words. When his physical body
dies he dwells in Hades,but he does not tarry in Illusion-
land. Swiftly he passes up the rungs of the ladder; easily
may he become one with the Father. For even while on
earth he has known the Father, having drawn his inspir-
ation from the imagination of God.
53
v
THE PLANE OF COLOUR
THE FOURTH PLANE
The Soul-man-The Breaking of the Image
IN Illusion-land you wear an etheric body. It is of a finer
or more tenuous matter than the physical form. If you
belong to the second class, ifyou are a Soul-man-in other
words an intelligent, ethically developed soul-you will
desire to go up the ladder of consciousness. The longing
for a physical existence will have been burned into ashes
with, however, a few exceptions.
Certain Soul-men desire to return to earth, or wish, at
any rate, for some planetary existence wherein they may
achieve some intellectual triumph, or wherein they may
play a notable part in the strife of earthly or planetary life.
These, then, become incarnate again. But the majority of
Soul-men slough their etheric body and put on a shape
which is a degree finer. They are then released from
Illusion-land, from that nursery in which they merely
lived in the old fantasy of earth.
Now, these beings wear a subtle body and they enter a
world I would call Super-terrestrial; for they still abide
within the ether. Ether is a bad term; but I cannot find
another word to define that air or, I would rather say,
fluid or emanation which is of the material universe. Pray
remember that ether is the ancestor of matter as you know
it. But I am wandering from my theme.
So long as Soul-man would live mainly in form, he must
be content to be a Super-terrestrial being. That state con-
tains many degrees, many vehicles of expression. They
54
THE PLANE OF COLOUR
differ in the rates of vibration; the finer they are, the
greater your spiritual and intellectual preceptions; the
wider your grasp, the loftier your experience of that
Mystery we call God-the goal of all spiritual attain-
ment.
Now, in the state beyond Illusion, when you are living
consciously and are sensible of your subtle body, you
dwell in a world which is the original of the earth. Briefly,
the earth is an ugly smudged copy of the world wherein
dwells the subtle soul in its subtle body. You are doubtless
aware that the copyist, when he produces his painting
of a masterpiece, usually fails through being unable to
convey the soul of the work in question. The measure-
ments may be correct, colouring and line excellent, but the
life is not within it; so you are left cold and aloof, you are
merely stirred to a petty irritation when you perceive a
copy of an old master you loved. The earth, as you know
it, is this unreal thing-a copy of a masterpiece. It is a
shadow with all the defects of a shadow. It is, at times,
distorted and grotesque; at times, a mere dim out-
line. Animation is absent. The true life is not expressed
in it.
Within the subtle world of which I speak you will
perceive a variety of forms which are not known on earth
and therefore may not be expressed in words. Yet there is
a certain similarity, a correspondence between the appear-
ances of nature and the appearances on this luminiferous
plane. Flowers are there; but these are in shapes unknown
to you, exquisite in colour,radiant with light. Such colours,
such lights are not contained within any earthly octave,
are expressed by us in thoughts and not in words. For, as
I previously remarked, words are for us obsolete. However,
the soul, in this plane of consciousness, must struggle and
labour, know sorrow but not earth sorrow, know ecstasy
but not earth ecstasy. The sorrow is of a spiritual char-
acter, the ecstasy is ofa spiritual kind. These two transcend
ss
THE ROAD' TO IMMORTALITY
imagination, but they finally lead the soul to the borders
of the Super-terrestrial region.
A Chapter in Superlatives-The Apotheosis of Form
The soul becomes possessed of a new awareness as well
as of finer perceptions when he decides to go upwards
rather than downwards on the ladder of consciousness;
and, therefore, he enters the Fourth plane of being.
On earth the average man's normal ego is largely con-
trolled by the body's desires, though the spirit inspires its
life and at times lights up the darkness of the human
brain with luminous flashes. Still, the spirit, or what I
call the deeper mind, can only faintly impress itself upon
the ego. Now, in the Fourth stage the spirit is able to
enter, with greater intensity, into the time measurement
which I call the soul or ordinary consciousness. This soul
becomes sensible of the change through his greatly in-
creased intellectual powers. With that increased awareness
there comes greater concentration. The memory of the
earth life, in its details, is for the time being lost. So long
as the soul dwells in form he is subject to the rhythm of
the universe and, therefore, to some form of time. Con-
ceive time and appearance as one symbol. ·
The soul bears with him, however, the fundamental
emotional memory, or rather retains contact with it in the
first stage on the Fourth plane oflife. This plane of colour
might be more aptly termed "The Breaking ofthe Image."
For on this level of consciousness the soul learns how to
control form, learns by myriad experiences the ghostliness
of all substance. In the anterior period of his evolution he
has been controlled largelybysubstance. Slowlythe graven
image is broken, slowly the ego learns so to draw from the
higher soul or spirit that he can, at will, break up his
form and break from all forms, all appearances about him.
Of course, each individual's experiences vary enor-
mously. I take as my example a sensitive Soul-man who
s6
THE PLANE OF COLOUR
makes definite progress upwards, who does not, as do so
many, journey with the undulatory motion of a sea wave,
up and down, up and down, though always reaching a little
higher than before.
Now, this sensitive Soul-man realises first of all that
he hasentered aworld ofmyriad colours, lightsandsounds.
He is sensible of a body entirely dissimilar from the
human body. As regards appearance, it can only be des-
cribed as being apparently a compound oflight and colours
unimaginable. The shape of this form is influenced by all
the ego's past acts so far as they have impressed themselves
on his deeper consciousness. This coloured compound
may be grotesque, bizarre in form, may be lovely beyond
words, may possess strange absurdities of outline, or may
transcend the loftiest dream of earthly beauty.
In this many-coloured region the form vibrates with
extreme intensity, for now mind expresses itself more
directly in form: so that we can hear the thoughts of other
souls. At first only one at a time may break upon that
hearing. But after a while we become sensible of the fact
that we may hear the thoughts of several souls, each apart
and distinct from the other. We dwell in a world of ap-
pearances in some respects similar to the earth. Only all
this vast region of appearances is gigantic in conception,
terrifying and exquisite according to the manner in which
it presents itself to the Soul-man. It is far more fluidic,
less apparently solid than earth surroundings.
This many-coloured world is nourished by light and life
in a greater purity, vibrates at an unimaginable speed. The
souls, who dwell within the first zone, realise that with
increased consciousness they have gained a far greater
sensitivity. A hostile Soul-man's mentality may, with a
powerful projection of thought, blast and wither some part
of your body of light and colour. You have to learn how
to send out protecting rays. If on earth some other man
or woman was your enemy and you hated one another
57
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
bitterly, you will encounter this man or woman on this
luminiferous plane; the old emotional memory will awaken
when you meet. For love and hate draw you inevitably
towards those souls who are in the pattern of your par-
ticular design which is ever shaping and reshaping in the
tapestry of eternity.
You will understand, therefore, that pain and pleasure,
joy and despair are once more experienced. Again, how-
ever, they differ greatly from the earthly conception of
them; they are of a finer quality, of an intellectualised
character. Mightier is their inspiration, more profound
the despair they arouse, inconceivable the bliss they stir
within the deeps of your being.
On this luminiferous plane the struggle increases in
intensity, the efforts expended are beyond the measure of
earthly experience. But the results of such labour, of such
intellectualised and spiritualised toil and battle also
transcend the most superb emotion in the life of man. In
brief, all experience is refined, heightened, intensified, and
the actual zest of living is increased immeasurably.
Awareness on the Fourth Plane
The preceding remarks, outlining a more rarefied
existence in the Super-terrestrial zone, must be regarded
as merely a rough tracing of a very varied state of being.
For instance, in that more spiritualised state there are
many forms of expression. In it the soul wears several
bodies, passing from one to another as he advances.
These become more and more subtle indeed, the fineness
of their texture cannot be grasped or understood by even
a super-scientist. One law prevails, however, your soul is
only aware of those beings who possess bodies vibrating
with the same intensity-that is, unless he puts himself
into a state analogous to that strange sleep known as
hypnosis. When thus conditioned he may go back, tem-
porarily descend a rung of the ladder and make mental
ss
THE PLANE OF COLOUR
contact with a soul who inhabits a denser shape. He can
even descend into Hades, enter its fog and come into
touch with human beings. He is thereby frequently caught
in the dream of the earth-personality; and it is as if the
memory of his experiences on a higher plane were tem-
porarily anresthetised away. So he is incapable of conveying
to earth-save with rare exceptions-any interesting or
remarkable information. Caught in the cocoon of earth
memories, which frequently are not his own, he can merely
speak of trivial material affairs. It is as ifhe were a drugged
bee in a hive, a bee sated with honey.
His awareness on the luminiferous plane has vastly in-
creased, but usually he cannot convey a sense of it to those
individuals he may endeavour to contact if he chooses
once more, like Orpheus, to go down into Hell in search
of the beloved. These remarks will explain why so few
ever receive any spontaneous impression of the departed.
Indeed, men and women are as ghosts to us, and onlywhen
they seek us with faith and with love do they obtain any
convincing suggestion of ourselves, of our earth-person-
ality. Such search is legitimate and will neither hurt nor
distress the one who is summoned or sought.
Now, a human being cannot imagine a new sound, a
new colour or feeling; so it is impossible for him to
conceive the infinite variety of new sounds, colours and
feelings experienced by us on the Fourth stage, which I
have called "The Breaking of the Image."
Nearly half of the earth life is passed in sleep, that is
to say, in a state of unconsciousness; and it is calculated
that even when man is awake, his normal healthy self, his
consciousness is broken by gaps of unconsciousness forty
or fifty to a second.1 In this respect he resembles a light-
1 An interesting corroboration of this somewhatstartling calculation
appears as a footnote to page 328 of E. D. Fawcett's The Individual
and Reality. It is as follows: "The reference is not merely to sleep,
etc. It has been calculated (by whom I cannot recall) that conscious-
ness is broken by unconscious gaps no less than fifty times a second."
E.B.G.
59
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
house that stands upon a rocky coast on a starless night.
Darkness impenetrable covers the sea; every now and
then it is lit up by a ray of light which flashes across the
waters, illumining their surface but feebly and moment-
arily. Man's consciousness appears thus to me now. In
his journey up the ladder he is gradually emerging from
that darkness in the sense that the light becomes brighter,
more continuous. When he reaches the Fourth stage his
awareness is as brilliant as an ordinary man's awareness is
feeble. There are far fewer gaps of unconsciousness, for
the spirit can make a surer and more consistent contact
with the soul by reason of the fineness of its body and its
gre~ter subtlety, by reason of increased intellectual activity
on his part. The blind puppy is beginning to open his eyes
at last.
Pray examine the picture of the night sea again. It is
almost continually illumined by the beacon of the light-
house. Only at long intervals does darkness descend. Now
how is it possible to convey to human beings, by the
primitive, rude sounds called words, the implications that
arise from this far greater awareness? For instance, the
intensity of the thought processes of the emotional life·
seem limitless when compared with the sluggish move-
ments of the human brain, with the crude passion that is
roused in the stirring moments of earth life. Take the
intellectual activity of a slug or a snail, compare it with
that of a man and you will understand how different is the
mental world of the soul on the Fourth plane from that of
the human being.
Our conception of space differs entirely from yours. I
can give you a faint glimpse of it if I use the wireless
message as an illustration. I have but to concentrate my
thought for what you might call a moment and I can build
up a likeness of myself, send that likeness speeding across
our vast world toa friend, to one, that is, in tune with me.
Instantly I appear before that friend though I am remote
6o
THE PLANE OF COLOUR
from him; and my likeness holds speech-in thought,
remember, not words-with this friend. Yet, all the time,
I control it from an enormous distance; and as soon as the
interview is concluded I withdraw the life of my thought
from that image of myself, and it vanishes. Of course, I
can only make this contact with those on my plane who
are familiar with me and, therefore, are in my rhythm.
This trivial illustration of the power of thought to give
reality to itself is mentioned here merely in order to show
you how much nearer we have come to the Creative
Principle. We are gradually learning how to live within
and without form, learning how ghostly is the most
tenuous substance. We are becoming aware of the fluid,
flowing character of mind. We understand how it can
control energy and life-force, those units which nourish
all manifestations a1_1d appearances.
6J.
VI
THE GROUP-SOUL
THE GROUP OF PSYCHIC CONSCIOUSNESs-THE PHYSICAL
BODY A GROUP OF ATOMIC CONSCIOUSNESS
THE group-soul is one and yet many. The informing
spirit makes these souls one. I think I have explained to
you before, that as there are certain centres in the brain,
so in psychic life there are a number of souls all bound
together by one spirit, depending for their nourishment
on that spirit.
When I was on earth I belonged to a group-soul, but
its branches and the spirit-which might be compared to
the roots-were in the invisible. Now, ifyou would under-
stand psychic evolution, this group-soul must be studied
and understood. For instance, it explains many of the
difficulties that people will assure you can be removed
o~ by the doctrine of reincarnation. You may think my
statement frivolous, but the fact that we do appear on
earth to be paying for the sins of another life is, in a
certain sense, true. It was our life, and yet not our life.
In other words, a soul belonging to the group of which I
am a part lived that previous life which built up for me
the framework of my earthly life, lived it before I had
passed through the gates of birth.
In this invisible world there is infinite variety of con-
ditions. I can only speak of what I know. I do not claim
to be infallible. Take the following as the axiom I would
lay down for you.
Many Soul-men do not seek another earth life, buttheir
spirit manifests itself many times on earth and it is the
62
THE GROUP-SOUL
bond which holds together a group of souls, who, in
the ascending scale of psychic evolution, act and react
upon one another. So, when I talk of my spiritual for-
bears I do not speak of my physical ancestors, I speak of
those soul-ancestors who are bound to me by one spirit.
There may be contained within that spirit twenty souls,
a hundred souls, a thousand souls. The number varies.
It is different for each man. But what the Buddhists would
call the karma I had brought with me from a previous
life is, very frequently, not that of my life, but of the
life of a soul that preceded me by many years on earth
and left for me the pattern which made my life. I, too,
-wove a pattern for another of my group during my earthly
career. We are all of us distinct, though we are influenced
by others of our community on the various planes ofbeing.
When your Buddhist speaks of the cycle of births, of
man's continual return to earth, he utters but a half-
truth. And often half a truth is more inaccurate than an
entire misstatement. I shall not live again on earth, but a
new soul, one who will join our group, will shortly enter
into the pattern or karma I have woven for him on earth.
No doubt "karma" is a word I use incorrectly here. For
it is something more and something less than karma that
he inherits. I am, therefore, a kingdom, and yet I am but
a unit in that kingdom.
You may say to me that, for the Soul-man, one earth
life is not enough. But, as we evolve here, we enter into
those memories and experiences of other lives that are to
be found in the existence of the souls that preceded us,
and are of our group.
I do not say that this theory, which I offer you, can be
laid down as a general rule. But undoubtedly it is true in
so far as it is what I have learned and experienced.
Now, this speculation-as you would probably call it-
is interesting when applied to genius. The souls who have
preceded us on earth naturally stamp us mentally and
63
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
morally. If a certain type of psyche is continually being
evolved in the one group, you will find that eventually
that type, if it be musical, will have a musical genius as
its representative on earth. It will harvest all the tendencies
in those vanished lives, and it will then have the amazing
unconscious knowledge that is the property of genius.
Here, in the After-death, we become more and more
aware of this group-soul as we make progress. Eventually
we enter into it and share the experiences of our brethren.
You must understand, therefore, that existence for my
soul-as separate and apart from my individual ego-is
dual. I lived two lives, one in the world of form, and one
subjective, in the community of which I am a member.
Men and women may not care to accept these state-
ments of mine. They long either for an indestructible
individuality in the Hereafter or for a kind of spiritual
swoon in the life of God. You will perceive in my analysis
of the group-soul that we are individuals and members
of one whole. And when you come to the Fourth, and
more particularly to the Fifth stage, you will realise how
fine and beautiful is this brotherhood within the one
being; how it deepens and intensifies existence; how it
destroys the cold selfishness so necessary to an earth
life, where one living creature must continually destroy
another's manifestation in matter in order to maintain its
physical life.
In the Fourth stage the soul becomes sensible of the
group-soul, and through the awareness there arises a
great change. He begins gropingly to realise the character
of experience, the possibilities of mind; and in this Fourth
stage if he is a Soul-man he is peculiarly liable to error.
That is to say, once he becomes cognisant of the group-
soul and of its many emotional and intellectual experiences
he may, if a certain section of that group-soul be in a fixed
mould, take upon himself its shape and remain within it
for reons of time. In this connection when I write "mould"
6.j.
THE GROUP-SOUL
I desire to indicate a certain special outlook. For instance,
a fanatical Buddhist or a very devout Christian may be
held within the groove of his earthly beliefs. For those
other souls in his community are, perhaps, also held in
the chains ofthoseparticular ideas. Sotherehemay remain,
making no progress, in a thought or in a memory-world
which consists of the Christian or of the Buddhist dream.
He is held fast in the tentacles of an octopus. This octopus
is the earthly Christian or Buddhist idea of an After-life,
their view of the universe as created when on earth.
Now, you will recognise that such conditions tend to
inhibit progress. For it means-to use another metaphor
-dwelling in an intellectual chrysalis, living in the past
earthly conceptions. And it is needful that the journeying
soul.should come to a state in which he can at will survey
them, but not be held by them, or be imprisoned in their
limitations.
Spirit-man
Spirit-man is not caught in this eidolon or living ghost,
in this wraith of earthly beliefs. The great masters are not
thus ensnared. Christ, the Sonof God, entered into Hades,
but He did not abide in any of the other planes of being.
Christ, being inspired directly by God, was connected
with no group-soul. He passed from Hades out Yonder;
for His physical body was, during His lifetime on earth,
the direct expression in the clay of that Essence, the
Imagination of God. Truly, Christ was a limited expres-
sion of the Whole, was in earthly life linked to the Whole.
But every Christian born upon the earth isinspired bysome
individualised spirit. When I write "individualised" I
desire to indicate that it is a thought of God; it is not,
therefore, the Whole, it is not the Fount of all life.
So there are numerous fanatical Christians who, though
they led lives of rectitude on earth, committed certain in-
tellectual sins. These might be summed up in the phrase
65 E
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
"rigidity of thought," "an outlook limited by fanaticism."
Briefly,theyare wedded to a limited concept. In the Fourth
stage ofexistence they must learn how to escape from such
a prison if they are to make further progress. These re-
marks apply equally to Buddhists, Mahommedans, and
all those other fanatical adherents of various religions or,
as in the modem world, of scientific conceptions. For
science tends moreand more to becomea religion or special
outlook for II?-any human beings.
Now, if the soul is to pass from the Fourth to the Fifth
stage he must first shake off, cast from him any dogma,
any special earthly outlook which has shaped his mentality,
which confines it; so that his vision is limited, and his
experiences are, therefore, also limited; consciousness of
reality being thus withheld from him.
66
VII
THE PLANE OF FLAME
THE FIFTH PLANE
Birth into the Fifth Stage
THERE comes a time when the soul who dwells on the
Fourth plane of life prepares for the incident of death.
This death does not resemble the death of man. At this
particular point in evolution the soul has perfect and
absolute control of form, of his appearance, of his eidolon
or living ghost. This is the last veil between him and a
conception of existence without form. He must free him-
self before he can go. up another rung of the ladder, and
freedom can only come through the deliberate process
called "The Breaking of the Image." It is the farewell to
appearance, to form as a necessity, to colour, to feeling as
a certainty, as a condition of life.
Again the soul enters into unconsciousness; and when
he is hom into the Fifth stage he has cast from him
certain attributes that were his when he still inhabited the
Image; for his soul was, in part, that Shape ofLight he has
now discarded.
Between each plane there is this lapse into apparent
oblivion, a stilling of all processes, a great calm. It is
called Hades by the ancients. Here the soul seems to
pause. Slowly, however, vision returns, the traveller per-
ceives, imaged upon the glimmering sea of eternity, all his
experiences on previous planes; all the past images that
make up the story of his life are spread before him. He
studiesthem in the light of hisUnifyingPrinciple or spirit.
They rouse, according to his nature, his varying desires,
67
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
intellectual and emotional. He knows then that he must
choose either to go forward or backwards. The spirit
actually forces the choice. It has to be made according to
the fullness of his experiences in the previous life. He has
entire free will, but inevitably he chooses his greatest
need. When at the gate of Illusion-land, the Animal-man
chooses to drop back into a physical existence. When
at the gate of the many-coloured world, the Soul-man
sometimes chooses to drop back into the first division
of this region, which, in its last divisions, is the apotheosis
of form.
However, supposing that his review ofhis previous lives
is satisfactory, he will decide to go on to the Fifth stage,
and then the great calm is broken. There arises a tempest
wherein he discards his desire for existence in etherealised
form, in that plane of colour. He discards then a certain
part of himself which he will not lose but resume in the
greater wholeness of the Sixth stage.
The Symbol of the Fifth Stage
It is necessary to describe by some symbol each chapter
in the Book of Life. The term "flame" expresses the
Fifth stage. For now the soul becomes emotionally whole,
aware not alone of himself, but of all those other souls who
are of his group. He remains himself, yet is all those other
selves as well. He no longer dwells in form-as it is con-
ceived by man-but he dwells still in what might be
described as an "outline." All the past emotions, passions,
intellectualmodesofexpressionbelongingto his companion
souls shape this outline, an outline of emotional thought;
a great fire which stirs and moves this mighty being now.
While he abides in this Fifth plane experience is mani-
fold, is a multiplication, loses, in a sense, its apparent
oneness. He lives indeed a life that seems to bum like a
flame. It is a time of severe discipline, of vastly increased
intellectual feeling, of great limitations, of boundless
68
THE PLANE OF FLAME
freedoms, of the glimpsing of infinite horizons. "Swoons
of contemplation, agonies of dreaming," states in which
all lucid thought lies fallow, states in which the intense
feverish activities of all the passionate existence of his
comrade souls flame through his being. He is thus all the
time becoming more and more merged with the Unifying
Spirit.
A rare intensity of feeling, of joy, ecstasy, sorrow,
of dark despair nourish him, feed his life. Yet, all the
while, he is, in a sense, apart, aloof. He is not caught in
the storm of this emotional whirlpool. He is sensible of it,
yet rides above it. His attitude, however, does not resemble
that of St. Simeon Stylites, who remained upon his pillar
remote and aloof from the gorgeous ancient world which
was playing out its drama in those Mediterranean lands of
his day.
The soul, on this Fifth level of consciousness, is con-
tinuously conscious. There are now no gaps, no periods
of non-existence. He revels in the emotional and intel-
lectual life of all those comrade souls who are on the various
rungs of the ladders which reach up to the One Spirit and
are lighted by it. But this soul, at the climax of his exist-
ence on the plane of flame, is as an artist who lives in his
masterpiece, derives from it, in all its features, in the
freshness of its evolving, changing creation, that strange
exultation which may, perhaps, at one rare moment, be
known to a creative genius-though very faintly-while
he still lives upon the earth.
This state on the Fifth plane may be imagined but not
understood or conceived by a man's mind. To the travel-
ling soul the purpose of his existence will seem to be, at
last, revealed. He tastes of Heaven and yet the revelation
of the last mystery still tarries, still awaits the completion
of the design of which he is a part.
It is a glorious existence, despite certain sinisteraspects.
The Soul-man, however, may not leave it for the Sixth
69
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
plane until the group-soul is complete, until those other
souls, necessary to this design woven in the tapestry of
eternity, have also attained to this level of consciousness.
Some may still be far behind. But while in this state of
being, the Soul-man becomes aware of the emotional life
of all the more primitive souls who inhabit denser and
denser matter and, yet, belong to his group. He becomes
aware, in short, of all the parts of the great body which
his spirit, or the Unifying Principle, feeds with its Light.
He realises the subconscious life of the flower, the in-
sect, the bird, the beast, all those forms which are con-
nected with the governor of his being, that Light from
Above.
The Construction of the Group-soul
The actual construction of the group-soul must be
clearly visualised. Its spirit feeds, with life and mental
light, certain plants, trees, flowers, birds, insects, fish,
beasts, men and women; representatives of living
creatures in varying states of evolution. It inspires souls
who are on various planes, various levels of consciousness
in the Mter-death. It feeds, also, creatures on other
planets. For the spirit must gather a harvest of experience
in every form. Gradually these intelligences evolve and
merge. The experience necessary to the spirit is completed
when all the soulsnecessaryto the design have reached this
Fifth plane. Once they become sensible of their oneness
and their individuality they may go forward to the Sixth
plane. There is, then, a breaking of the threads, a casting
away of the dross of emotional experience, a sifting and
changing on the part of all these souls. They pass once
more into Hades and review, in that state, all that now
lies behind them.
VIII
THE PLANE OF WHITE LIGHT
THE SIXTH PLANE
Pure Reason
LIGHT, though composed of many colours, is colourless.
The spirit, though composed of many souls, is above and
beyond pleasurable and painful moods of the mind. It
belongs, therefore, to the Sixth plane, which is suitably
described by the symbol of white light.
Now, on this level of consciousness pure reason reigns
supreme. Emotion and passion, as known to men, are
absent. White light represents the perfect equanimity of
pure thought. Such equanimity becomes the possession of
the souls who enter this last rich kingdom of experience.
They bear with them the wisdom of form, the incalculable
secret wisdom, gathered only through limitation, harvested
from numberless years, garnered from lives passed in
myriad forms. Knowledge of good and evil and of what
lies beyond good and evil now belongs to them. They are
lords of life, for they have conquered. They are capable of
living now without form, of existing as white light, as
the pure thought of their Creator. They have joined the
Immortals.
The purpose of the Sixth plane of being might be
described as "the assimilation of the many-in-one," the
unifying of all those mind-units I have called souls, within
the spirit. When this aim has been achieved, the spirit
which contains this strange individualised life passes out
Yonder and enters into the Mystery, thereby fulfilling the
final purpose, the evolution of the Supreme Mind.
71
IX
OUT YONDER, TIMELESSNESS
THE SEVENTH PLANE
Part of the Divine Principle
AGAIN the choice must be made. Is the soul prepared to
make the great leap, prepared to pass wholly from time
into timelessness, from an existence in form into form-
lessness ? This is the most difficult of all questions to
answer. Only a very few reply in the affirmative when first
faced with it.
The Seventh state might be described as the "passage
frolllJ<?~jntQ,foonlessness." But pray do not misunder-
~ttthlterm rcfoimlessness."I merely wish to indicate by
it an existence that has no need to express itselfin a shape,
however tenuous, however fine. The soul who enters that
Seventh state passes into the Beyond and becomes one
with God.
This merging with the Idea, with the Great Source of
spirit does not imply annihilation. You still exist as an
individual. You are as a wave in the sea; and you have at
last entered into Reality and cast from you all the illusions
of appearances. But some intangible essence has been
added to your spirit through its long habitation of matter,
of ether the ancestor of matter, of what the scientists call
empty space, though, if they but knew it, empty space is
peopled with forms of an infinite fineness and variety.
Actually, the passage from the Sixth to the Seventh
state means the flight from the material universe, from
that space which is a part ofit. You dwell not only outside
of time but outside of the universe on this last plane of
72
OUT YONDER, TIMELESSNESS
being. Yet you can be and are, in one sense, within the
universe. You as part of the Whole-and by the Whole I
indicate God-may be likened to the sun; your rays per-
vade the material universe,yetyourspiritremains detached
from it, reigning in the great calm of eternity. To be of
the universe and to be apart from it is, possibly, the final
achievement, the goal of all endeavour.
In a few brief words I have spanned existence within
reons of time, and I have endeavoured to give you a
glimpse of that mystery, timelessness. When you dwell
out Yonder, you, as a part of the Divine Principle in its
essence, are wholly aware of the imagination of God. So
you are aware of every second in time, you are aware of
the whole history of the earth from Alpha to Omega.
Equally all planetary existence is yours. Everything created
is contained within that imagination, and you, now by
reason of your immortality, know it and hold, as the earth
holds a seed, the whole of life, the past, the future, all that
is, all that shall be for ever and for ever.
The Beyond bafflesdescription. It is heart-breakingeven
to attempt to write of it.
That Spirit-man, God the Son, expressed a great truth
when He said,"Manyare called and few are chosen." Only
a very few pass out Yonder during the life of the earth.
A certain number of souls attain to the sixth state, but
remain in it or, in exceptional cases for a lofty purpose,
descend again into matter. They are not strong enough to
make the great leap into timelessness, they are not yet
perfect.
73
X
THE UNIVERSE
THE Buddhist maintains that the Universe is unreal. It
is unreal only so long as you are caught in its web, governed
by its laws, controlled by its matter or by that invisible
substance I have called an air of matter.
The term "unreal" implies falsehood, sham, humbug.
The soul, when he manifests himself in form, is limited by
that form. He cannot know truth because he is imprisoned
in that shape. He has, during his life on those first five
planes, a limited view. Like a horse, wearing blinkers, he
has a very poor idea of the world about him. The essential
unreality arises through this specialised view merely of a
piece of the road before him. Further, the form lies in the
picture of this road which it conveys to the soul. So the
Buddhist is in one sense right when he claims that the
Universe is unreal.
But when the sage claims that the ultimate goal is
one of extinction within Nirvana-extinction though not
annihilation-he is usinfClangerous terms. He claims that
we are extinguished once we reach this state of grace, this
World of the Absolute. He suggests, however, that at any
rate we are existing in unconditioned being; we are en-
tirely apart from the Universe, freed from its essential
unreality.
Actually, only on the Seventh plane when we are one
with the Supreme Idea do we realise the reality of the
Universe. It is unreal so long as it imprisons soul and
spirit. It is real once these are merged and freed from it,
dwelling in the infinite liberty of Pure Intelligence.
Once that state is attained we perceive that old master-
74
THE UNIVERSE
piece, the Universe, as a Whole. We realise it in every
microscopic detail, and in its greatest proportions. We
perceive the Whole of it as an intellectual concept within
the Supreme Idea. We perceive the part of it that is
playing out its ·drama. And thus we exist as the seer and
the lover, experiencing all that life as an act of thought.
So we reach the zenith of experience. We know the
reality of the material Universe, we are aware of the other
reality, the Idea, which contains its duplicate from the
beginning to the end as a thought. We cannot be said to
be extinct. We are one in the great harmony of Mind, we
are individual in the love of the Creator for His creation
which is contained within him, which is manifested in
part.
We receive from all those myriad spirits who control
parts of the material universe the complete impression of
it in its least, in its greatest aspects. Therefore we live as
never before, we are caught in no Nirvanic swoon. And
we join in that cont~mplation of the destruction of the
present Universe, of the creation, life and extinction
of other universes, and so on endlessly. We live in the
intellectual concept of them all and we are aware of that
part which now plays out its drama on the stage of
eternity.
Try to realise th~haracter of existence when you
think of the word "Universe"; then it may be easier to
understand the nature of life.
There are Ph¥~~s and there are~.
The psychic unit develops as it dwells within and without
the physical atoms, in the various stages of existence. The
psychic unit dwells within the fantasy of ever finer and
finer substance, gaining all the while. The psychic unit
escapes from that substance, returns to its home in the
Idea. But this escape does not mean annihilation. It is one
now and yet many, just as the physical atoms of the human
body are one and yet many.
75
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
Understand, therefore, that the Universe is only unreal
so long as you dwell within its confining web, within form.
It is real when you are free from it and are able from Out
Yonder to survey it as a whole and to know it as an act
of pure thought.
XI
FROM THE WORLD OF EIDOS1
THE discarnate being who has conveyed this message has
remained in touch with the earth and has followed, step
by step, since his death at the beginning of the century,
the progress of science, the Great War, which has been
continued in the economic war. He has, through com-
munion with the inner mind of his friends who still exist
in physical bodies, perceived the change in man's spiritual
outlook, perceived his urgent need for some cogent
assurance of a spiritual world. Because a man dies, it does
not follow that he loses touch with the earth, with that
state of Penia-poverty-from which he rose into the
delights of the plane named Illusion, from which he
penetrated into the world of Eidos-pure form-to the
human soul the Heaven World, the ultimate goal. For
while on earth the human soul has, in rare moments,
perceived that world but has not passed beyond it even
when in the loftiest mystic trance.
We intelligences who have journeyed as far as Eidos
may, when we choose, journey back to the state of Penia
and commune with those who love us or who are to us
mentally akin.
We perceive, then, the strange disorder of the world of
men and women. We recognise the causes of that disorder
and the purpose behind them. We realise the necessity for
such dis9rder and at the same time we desire to convey
some indication of the Great Reality.
For this reason I, Frederic Myers, have endeavoured to
trace a rough outline of the road man must follow in the
After-death if he be a seeker-of immortality.
1 The Plane of Colour.
77
XII
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
To those of us who have reached that "unseen bourne"
from which travellers in a changed aspect frequently
return, death is an incident or a mere episode which we
regard with a certain tenderness and not with any pain.
To human beings, however, death should seem as a night
at an inn, as a halt on the long road home.
It may be a night of feverish insomnia, or heavy with
fear; a night full of strange dreams, or a period of almost
undisturbed peace. Always there is, contained in it, a
time of stillness, of sinking gloriously into rest. Neverthe-
less, the soul eventuallywakens to a new day.And,in dawn
and dark alike,he is surrounded bycertain ofhis discarnate
kindred, by some of those who are woven into the pattern
of his destiny.
Before we discuss death further we must be agreed on
the meaning of one word which has caused much con-
fusion of thought. The term "discarnate being" does not
imply separation from any body whatsoever, but from ex-
clusive association with the physical body. For, until the
wayfarer reaches the Sixth plane, he must customarily use
some form, some vehicle of expression, some outward
sign or symbol of himself.
Many are these forms. For our present purpose it is
advisable that I should name only four of them.
(I) The double or unifying body-in my opinion
falsely named the astral body.
(2) The etheric body.
(3) The subtle body.
(4) The celestial body or shape of light.
78
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
The two latter are occupied by the soul on the higher
planes and can be altered greatly in appearance by a mental
act, or by an act of will.
Now, discarnate intelligences have probably informed
vou that the secret of death is to be found in the rate of
speed at which the outer shell vibrates. For instance, a
human being is primarily aware of the visible world about
him because his body is travelling at its particular rate of
speed. Alter the timing of your physical form, and the
earth, men, women and all material objects, will vanish
for you as you vanish for them. Death, therefore, means
merely a change of speed. For the purpose of this change
a temporary dislocation is necessary, for the soul must
pass from one body travelling at a certain vibration to
another travelling at a different rate or time.
This entry into the next life involves no sudden break,
no leap, as it were, into new conditions. There must,
necessarily, be an intermediate state. Even Christ entered
into it, abiding, as you have been told, for a period in
Hades.
And so we come to the first question. In what form does
the human being express himself during the hours that
immediately follow the moment when the physician de-
clares that "life is extinct"? "Where is the beloved?" we
ask in our wordless misery as we watch by that shell,
which, a few minutes previously, contained that bright,
living personality; for us so radiant and so dear, quick in
perception, eager in intelligence. During the hour after the
passing of a soul with whom we have been intimately
bound it is hard to believe in extinction. And ours is a
right intuition when we instinctively refuse to believe
that all is finished, that the soul has come to his journey's
end.
During the whole of a man's earthly life he is accom-
panied by the double or unifying body. It is the link
between the deeper mind and the brain, and has many
79
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
important functions. When you fall asleep your conscious-
ness no longer controls the physical shape. There is not
only an apparent cutting off, but an entry into apparent
oblivion. The usual disordered dreams are frequently but
the playof nervesroused and irritated bythe dailyactivities.
Actually, during sleep, the soul exists within the double
while the body is recharged with nervous energy, with
life-units. So, sleep has been wisely recognised as being
even more important than food or drink.
Space does not permit further discussion of this aspect
in the life of man. It is necessary only for you to realise
that the double, if it could be made visible, is, in appear-
ance, an exact counterpart of the physical shape. The two
are bound together by many little threads, by two silver
cords. One of these makes contact with the solar plexus,
the other with the brain. They all may lengthen or extend
during sleep or during half-sleep, for they have consider-
able elasticity. When a man slowly dies these threads and
the two cords are gradually broken. Death occurs when
these two principal communicating lines with brain and
solar plexus are severed.
It is a well-known fact that life occasionally lingers in
certain cells of the body after the soul has fled. This
phenomenon has always baffled the physician, but there is
a simple explanation for it. The double still adheres to the
shell by means of certain of the threads which have not
yet been broken. The soul does not suffer in the physical
sense if thus delayed in his journey. He may suffer in the
sense that he has, thereby, a greater awareness of the
immediate surroundings of his physical body. It gives him
the power to perceive his friends and relations wherever
this worn-out garment lies. As a rule, however, he obtains
complete freedom from earth's detaining grasp within an
hour-or a few hours-of death.
When you watch by the dead or grieve for a departed
friend, do not be anxious or concerned for him in the
So
\
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
period immediately following his release. For the soul, at
that time, is usually in a state of half-sleep. All the agony,
all the strange dreams, the tortured fever of mind precede
the translation of the soul to the double. At the moment
ofdeath-unless that death be ofaviolentcharacter-peace
reigns about the human consciousness. It is resting in
dimness and sometimes is capable of perceiving those
dear frien<;ls or relatives who have already passed to another
life.
Conditions, of course, vary enormously. The man or
woman who has never deeply loved or cared for any other
human soul may, at death, rise from the body of clay into
loneliness and into a night that, in its impenetrable black-
ness, is like no night on earth.
This state of complete isolation, however, is only
allotted to a few human beings. The egoist or the cruel
man will be condemned to it, but, for such a fate, his
selfishness must be inordinate, his cruelty considerable.
The average man or woman when he or she is dying
suffers no pain. They have become so dissevered already
from the body that when the flesh seems to be in agony
the actual soul merely feels very drowsy and has a sensation
of drifting hither and thither, to and fro, like a bird resting
on the wind.
This sensation has its own easeful delight after the pain
ofthe illness which has led the soul to the change of death.
So, grieve not for the apparent agony of the dying, rejoice
becausethey are alreadyfreed from the torment,arealready
fluttering between two existences and abide in that name-
less content which is due to the quiescence of mind and
awareness.
Slowly the soul then rises into the double and for a
brieftime hovers above the physical counterpart. Some day
men will be able to photograph this moment, and the being
that passes thus may be registered on the plate as a little
white cloud, a pale essence. Only so can this kernel of
81 F
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
personality appear to even the finest material instrument.
But, to discarnate beings, very different will seem the
flight of the soul, for the perceptions of the etheric body
are far more finely attuned. And usually those relatives
or friends who attend upon death journey to it from the
etheric world.
The Place of Shadows (Hades)
It is not possible to deal with even a tithe of the con-
ditions which prevail in Hades for the multitude of the
newly dead. I will, therefore, merely trace the course of
an average man who has led a well-ordered life on earth.
According to the nature of the individual, so, also, is the
length of his stay in the place of shadows. Mter a vision
of the blood-kindred .or psychic-kindred, and sometimes
after communion with them, the soul rests seemingly
within a veil, in a state of peaceful quiescence, of semi-
suspended consciousness, seeing fragmentary happenings
of his past life--these being now neither tainted by fear
nor whipped by emotion. He watches this changing show
as a man drowsily watches a shimmering sunny landscape
on a midsummer day. He is detached and apart, judging
the individual who participates in these experiences,
judging his own self with the aid of the Light from
Above.
The terms "Within the Husk" or "The Play of the
Shadow Show" define this period. Souls vary consider-
ably in their reactions to it. Some retain scarcely any recol-
lection of it. Others are too aloof and too drugged by the
condition of peaceful quiescence to feel either pleasure or
pain. But all the while progress is being made, the etheric
body is loosening, working out, withdrawing from the
husk, until, at last, judgment is completed. The soul takes
flight, casts the husk from him as a man throws an old
cloak from off his shoulders. For the Spirit or Light from
82
I
I
(
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
Above has accomplished its work of summing up, leaving
to the. traveller the final decision.
Once our pilgrim has, as it were, cast his skin, flung away
the tattered remnant that bound him to mortality, he
passes into the world of illusion and resumes full con-
sciousness.The double, re-imaged withinthe veil, becomes
the body of the man in the next life, only the outer rind
or After-image has been flung away.
Three or four days of earth time may suffice for this
\ experience ofthe Shadow Show, for the re-knitting and re-
adjustment of the ego to the etheric body. It is true, how-
ever, that certain abnormal men and women linger a long
while in Hades and wander to and fro in its grim ways,
encountering certain strange beings who hover near the
borders of the physical world, who wake old sorrows and
troubles in the minds of men, and who play upon the
understandings of certain individuals they would possess
while still in the flesh, dethroning the reason, stealing from
man his birthright. But these creatures have no part in
the chronicle of death. For they cannot harm or hinder
the pilgrims who journey from the world to us, drifting
without pain or stress through Hades, that place of half-
lights, of drowsy image-making, and, with a few excep-
tions, in no way or sense a place of fear or suffering.
Memory and Identity after Death
Physiologists will tell you that memory is merely a con-
dition of the brain. Injure a certain part of that delicate
organism and the healthy individual will become mentally
a blank, will be quite unable to recall any fact concerning
himself, any past experience whatsoever.
Actually, this unfortunate man has neither forgotten his
past nor is he intellectually a blank. A certain part of the
mechanism of the brain has ceased to function, so he is
unable to manifest any intelligence, dependent on memory,
83
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
to the visible world of men. But he is still intellectually
alive, and retains complete power over his memory apart
from his actual physical body. For the double or unifying
shape isthe counterpartofthatphysical body,andregisters,
more or less as the brain registers, facts and experiences
in the life of its owner.
Bear in mind that the double accompanies the man from
birth till death, houses and shelters his soul, serves him
even more faithfully than the actual physical shape of
which he is daily aware.
According to the human view, memory is necessary to
a sense of identity, to the idea of individuality and all that
is conveyed by the words"soul"or"consciousness." Sense
ofidentity,however,is not lostthrough the change of death,
for the soul finds his fundamental memory-centre in his
double which, as I have informed you, is his habitation in
the Mter-life.
As the double1 casts away an outer husk, onlyitsessential
part, the etheric body, which has accompanied the traveller
and functioned for him all through his earth life, goes on
and serves the soul on the plane of illusion, maintain-
ing continuity of individuality through continuity of
memory.
During the play of the shadow show this etheric shape
gathers new force, is remoulded, readjusted to the soul,
and there is a strange and wonderful renewal, a sense of
flooding life in the last stages as the butterfly breaks
through the chrysalis, as the individual who has entered
the period within the husk-an old decrepit man in appear-
ance-passes from it in a youthful body, pulsating with
life and eager with human desires.
On the plane of illusion these desires are satisfied.
1 If I recollect rightly, certain Eastems believe that the human
being, in his construction, resembles an onion and possesses at least
six bodies which all exist at the same time. I have found no evidence
of these nunterous shapes. They may, of course, exist. I can only
write out of my own knowledge.-F. W.H.M.
84
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
"We shall not all sleep"
Apart from Revelations,what is the teachingofthe Bible
concerning the After-life? "We shall not all sleep, but we
shall all be changed."
The words of St. Paul harmonise with the account of
the After-life given in these pages. The phrase "we shall
not all sleep" implies that many do sleep until "the last
trumpet sounds," until the end of the earth. In what gar-
den, in what world, in what space do these sleepers rest?
As birds live in air so do these souls exist in the etheric
zone which is about the earth. They are inhabitants of the
world of illusion. Now, on that plane, save in the last
stages, there is an almost entire absence of conflict and
effort, accordingly there is an absence of any true creation.
Many human beings regard such a state as the most
desirable condition of being. When they ask for heaven
while on earth they indicate, by the word "heaven," a life
without conflict or effort. Those of them who are satisfied
with such a life meet it after death in the illusion world,
and so linger within its borders until "the last trumpet
sounds." This phrase of St. Paul's must be read symbolic-
ally. It possessed its own peculiar meaning in the ancient
world, a meaning which has been lost. The souls who rest
on the Third plane until they are roused by this summons
may be fitly called "the sleepers." For what does sleep
indicate if not an absence of conscious conflict and effort?
Existence seems in many respects as real to the occupant
of the world of illusion as it does to king, politician,
lawyer, doctor, clergyman and working man on earth. But
it contains one important difference. The soul has no need
to put forth struggle or effort. Heobtainshis desire through
the mere act of desire. So he cannot be said to live as he
did on earth, or gloriously as he willliye in the world of
Eidos. He is, in truth, the sleeper mentioned in the New
Testament.
ss
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
"We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed."
This text infers that some of the dead do not sleep. In
other words, many o{ those, who have died, scorn the
pleasant fields of illusion, their deep content; they desire
conflict, creation, effort, and so they either become in-
carnate again or they wisely choose to go upwards and
to enter the world of Eidos, to find, indeed, life more
abundantly within that masterpiece. For in that state of
· grace the traveller meets with the finest glories of appear-
ance, with the triumph of life in form.
The After-image, or Husk
The After-image might be likened to an old traveller's
cloak. Though he discards it, it remains by the roadside
and may be picked up and worn again.
Ghosts have been known to walk for many years in
certain old mansions at certain seasons, or inconsequently,
without apparent rhyme or reason. Say to yourself if you
meet one of these restless shades: "Here walks the ancient
cloak, the old disguise, perhaps, of some Roundhead or
Cavalier, of some cowled monk or holy nun, of some
modem gentleman who has indulged in butchery or has
himself been murdered-with new weapons but with the
same old passions of rage and hate behind him."
It is that same repetitive passion that provides the
energy which, for a brief space, re-animates the After-
image. But it may not walk in its own place if there be not
association of memory, an energising thought or idea
behind it. Somewhere within the far realms of space exists
the brawler who died so violently, or the nun or monk
who enriched that cloak with all their brooding religious
passion. They are resting, withdrawing temporarily from
their active life in another sphere, and, for a moment, by
reason of the binding threads of past fate, envisage again
the old scene where they lived or from which they took
86
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
their leave of life. They cast on it but the careless thought
which is now unclouded by remorse, regretor anyemotion.
But the mere light flick of their thought stirs up the old
doak, causing it to masquerade again within the building
or about the grounds which were familiar to it in life.
But be assured that the essential ego does not return and
play the old part, making mockery of it on the stage of
earth, with its insubstantial vapouring, with its elusive
vanishing into air. No, such ghosts or phantoms, who
wander thus meaninglessly, are indeed but ancient gar-
ments tossed back to visibility at the appointed hour when
the man or woman who has "inner" sight is present to
record this deceptive masquerade.
All rules have their exceptions and so all hauntings may
not come under any one rule. But it is accurate to accept
the average ghost as a persistence of a manifestation of
energy through the medium of the After-image, focused
by the pull of an old thread of passionate memory.
Violent Death
Sometimes the dead do not know that they are dead.
This statement may seem incredible. Yet it is true in
certain fairly rare cases.
Only the past history of the dead man can make clear
this curious lack of apprehension of his state. If he passes
through the gates of death bearing with him a passionate
love of material possessions, he will, even after a fleeting
glimpse ofhis discarnate kindred, tenaciously hold to the
belief that he is still a man of flesh and blood, wandering,
perhaps, on the hills in a mist, but still filled with the life
of earth. He will passionately seekfor hishouse, his money,
or whatever is his particular treasure, in the dark ways
beyond death. And sometimes they may appear in an
elusive manner a little ahead of him, leaping thus only for
a brief moment before his subjective vision and then
87
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
vanishing, the cloud descending once more, reducing all
things for him to nullity again. Such an egoist will linger
for some time on the borders between the two worlds,
freedom coming when the force ofthat passion for material
possessions weakens and fades.
There are also certain others who linger thus in Hades,
but not unhappily as a rule. I refer to certain young men
of careless, animal and, occasionally, vicious life who die
violent deaths. These poor fellows are suddenly wrenched
from their bodies while still they are in the prime of man-
hood. They are not, in any sense, capable of grasping, for
a while, the difference between earth life and the After-
life. So, they, too, remain in ignorance, and must remain
in a kind of coma until the delicate etheric body has re-
covered from the shock of a too rapid severance from the
earthly shape.
However, the great majority of men and women after
death flit like passenger-birds through Hades, resting only
for a brief while here or there, making one contact with
their old friends or relatives who preceded them, held
but for a short spell by the play of the shadow show and
then loosed into the new life, into the effortless land where
the pattern is again woven, but on that plane it will have
no new design, no new threads or colours.
The Death that follows a Period of Senility
The very old may, before their passing from earth, in
part lose memory or lose their grasp of facts, their power
of understanding. This tragic decay all too often causes
the observer of it to lose his faith in an After-life. For the
soul seems, under such circumstances, merely the brain.
This, however, is a false conclusion. The soul, or active
ego, has been compelled partially to retire into the double
during waking hours because the cord between the brain
and its etheric counterpart has either been frayed, or
has snapped. The actual life of the physical body_:is still
88
THE INCIDENT OF DEATH
maintained through the second cord and through any of
those threads which still adhere to the two shapes. So the
aged, apparently mindless man or woman, is in no sense
mindless. He or she has merely withdrawn a little way
from you and has no need of your pity, for, through that
withdrawal, his awareness is almost wholly confined
within his unifying body-the body of his resurrection. ·
The Pattern
Beyond ambition, beyond any human forms of selfish-
ness, beyond the struggling, scarcely leashed desires, are
affection, love, the drawing, intangible force between
kindred souls. It is stronger than death, it conquers
despair and may conquer on all the finite levels of exist-
ence. It must be reckoned as a cosmic principle and is
known as "the power behind the pattern" which is being
woven for you as long as time, for you, exists.
Death seems terrible to the average man because of its
apparent loneliness. If he but knew it, his fears are vain;
his dread of being reft from the pattern-that is to say,
from those he loves-has no foundation, has no real sub-
stance behind it. For, wherever he may journey after
death, always will he be caught again into the design of
which he is a part, always will he find again, however deep
his temporary oblivion or however varied his experience,
certain human souls who were knit into his earth life, who
were loved deeply, if sometimes blindly or evilly, by him
in those bygone days.
It is true that the more pr;mitive types are incapable of
the love of the whole being. They fail to understand that
to love in this manner is to observe the first law of
progress; for it is a love that has within it the seeds of
immortality. Such primitive souls as are at the beginning
of the pattern frequently initiate its design with hatreds,
deathless antagonisms, which, encountered again on the
Third plane, hound back such souls to earth, where they
89
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
are re-born, and where, if progress is made, they may
learn the firstspiritual law,namely,theLaw of the Beloved.
No man or woman who has mastered it need fear
death, for, even if he go first, some other who is in his
pattern-and therefore truly his kindred-will speedily
join him, give him greeting in the Great Adventure which
lies beyond death.
Call death your friend, hail death as your deliverer. For
the darkness and soil which is in every earth love passes,
vanishes with your passing.
XIII
THE EVOLUTION OF THE PSYCHE
IN the previous pages will be found a rough chart of
existence. It was inadvisable to enter, in such a chart,
upon any detailed description of the qualities essential to
the navigator if he would speedily and successfully steer
his course across these strange worlds.
When I was on earth I was a firm believer in the power
and strength of agape or love. In the New Testament
St. Paul uses the word which is translated as "charity," but
attributed to it a meaning which has been also allotted to
love.
Here, in the After-life, I perceive that neither of these
words conveys the whole significance of the Good, for
they have been so long interpreted by human and finite
minds that they have become worn and defaced, soiled
and obscured by contact with many natures of an infinitely
varied character.
To some, the word "love" means only the passion
which lights up between man and woman, to others, it is
the intellectual love shared by two friends, kindred souls.
Thirdly, and lastly, love is held by many to be compassion
for others and to contain within it that communal sense of
the brotherhoodofman, thatlove,in a generalsense,which
has led, undoubtedly, to fine endeavour in past times.
But always these conceptions fall short of the ideal.
Though again and again agnostic and Christian study the
Gospels, image in their hearts the Sermon on the Mount,
still they fail, still their understanding perishes in the
presence of the great words of immortality.
No man or woman has ever really succeeded in under-
91
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
standing or grasping the whole lofty vision of love as it
was seen by the Christ. So now, as I survey the present
earth and perceive the chronicle ofthe years, I am sensible
of the need of a word which has not been debased by men,
which can still suggest and contain the primary need ofthe
soul, which will define that urge so essential to the psyche
when it would climb from one rung to another on the
ladder of consciousness.
The permanent reality of progress is to be found in
increase of wisdom. For wisdom may be defined as "right
judgment concerning truth."
Upon every plane of being the conception of truth must
necessarily be limited or enlarged by the conditions of life,
by the form the soul assumes, or bythat extension of con-
sciousness which,at the last, tends to shakeoff form, as the
trees in autumn cast off their leaves.
On the dense plane of matter known as earth the term
"truth" is still holy and, to the minds of many men,
unsoiled. It may, therefore, be used to illustrate what I
believe to have been Christ's meaning where the word
"love" is put into His mouth in the Gospels. But it is
not complete unless "right judgment" is added to it.
Consider, then, the significance of "wisdom." For,
clearly, within that lofty word resides the highest love be-
tween man and woman, intellectual love, compassion, faith
and last, but not least, the power of vision. All these are
possessed by the man or woman who rightly judges truth.
And, on whatever plane your soul or the soul of the
beloved is evolving, be assured that wisdom is the primary
urge which causes this soul to choose to go up rather than
down, to select the finer life, the greater reality, rather than
existence in denser form, in more material worlds.
"Love your enemies. Bless them that persecute you."
These beautiful and enigmatic phrases have troubled and
perplexed every sincere Christian who has endeavoured to
apply them to his own life. Only through wisdom can he,
92
THE EVOLUTION OF THE PSYCHE
in any measure, fulfil their command, expressing them
literally in act and thought. For they are contained in
wisdom. Their idea depends for its manifestation, for its
very life, on right judgment of the truth.
The simple peasant, the humble working man or
woman, ignorant in the eyes of the world, may yet be
wholly wise if they possess this spiritual discernment,
which, for the human soul, expresses Christ's vision when
He spoke of "love."
So must it be on each plane of being in the Unseen.
Wisdom is the light that,in every instance, gives shape and
life to love, is its secret hidden root, is the inspiration, the
power that causes the forward and upward progression
expressed in the term-the evolution of the psyche.
93
PART II
INSTRUCTION ABOUT VARIOUS HUMAN
FACULTIES AND OTHER MATTERS
XIV
FREE WILL
THE term "free will" presents different meanings to
different people. For some it implies the idea that in all
we do we are following out our own particular fancy or
desire so far as is possible. For others, free will seems to
imply simply the right to choose, the right, when we come
to cross roads, to follow the particular lane that seems,
from our point of view, the most alluring.
Perhaps we decided to travel along the beech-shaded
road and not the road that is openoneveryside.Who makes
that decision? I should call it the aggregation defined by
the term, body, soul, and spirit. Now, all these are built
up out of various elements, but all are one creation. They
have been slowly shaped through the ages. All the
hereditary influences must be included. All the influences
ofa psychic and a spiritual character are there. These seem
innumerable to our finite minds. Circumstances, friends,
enemies, relations, all help to mould that inner being which
makes the decision to follow that beech-shaded road. Does
it not strike you, therefore, that you are asking what is
impossible because of the very nature of our being when
you make the demand that free will must rule? We are
obviously merely the creation of many other men and
women livingand dead.Thereforewearelargelythevictims
of their varying influences and are bound to follow those
tendencies implanted in us. In other words all mankind is,
in a sense, one, and yet many. Man's history, his character
since the dawn of the world, might be conceived as a vast
web ever growing and growing, and the source of it all is
to be found in the Master Spinner who is responsible for
97 G
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
every particle of that fine fabric, for the whole history, the
whole character of man since the beginning of time.
Now, you must realise that as God is the Creator, the
Great Master Builder, He knows what shape the life of
the individual will take before that individual is born.
He knows exactly the nature of the unborn babe, how he
will develop from the hour he leaves his mother's womb,
where his tendencies will lead him, the manner in which
circumstances will mould him. For the great picture of all
creation has been conceived in the imagination of God
before ever the babe has evolved out of what we call the
void. For instance, the future ofthe earth is imaged already
in the imagination of God. It has happened because He
has already thought it. But what has not happened is the
change in the individual soul, the manner, for instance, in
which it reacts to the trials and the joys of life. The re-
actions of the soul are all that matter in connection with
your earth life. Will sorrow embitter you? Will ruin but
nerve you to fresh effort? In the latter instance, you create
within yourself in that you increase the power of your will,
increase your courage. Or will you give up hope and sink
intopenury,thus increasingtheweakness ofyour character?
Y.9:q.have, in short, free will only in the sense of~r~tion,
~-t~rld7~1~o;·{K~6~~~~:~i~;;u~~}:~!::~
For when you go back to the group-soul of which you are
one, according to the mould of your soul so shall be the
mould of circumstance in the future life of the young soul
of your group who is about to be born. It is hard to put
my idea into words.
God watches over the cosmic life of the group-souls.
And, according to their growth, He plans or designs the
future ofthe life of mankind. But because it was all imaged
by Him at the beginning so is there little to change in the·
vast cosmic picture that lies in His imagination.
XV
MEMORY
WITHIN AND WITHOUT THE BODY
I SHALL try to give you a brief account of some of the
aspects of memory as they present themselves to me.
Firstofall,you would probablylike to understand memory,
as it is in the case of the living. What do you do? Your
will decides that you shall remember the name of Tom
Jones. It makes the effort to concentrate upon that image.
What is the exact process? It draws to it a certain very fine
essence invisible to the human eye. Scientists might
describe that essence as something far subtler than elec-
tricity and yet ofthe same nature.This, ifthe will be strong
enough, can be led to make the necessary imprint again
upon what would appear to you, if you had the perception,
to be something fluid, something that flows. This fluid
penetrates matter, and, with the assistance of the essence
I speak of, can become so shaped that it is able to get in
touch with the cell in the brain that is ready to respond.
The will, with the assistance of these two elements, is able
to join as by a thread the image, Tom Jones, to the cell.
You have such perverted ideas of space, as long as you
are in matter, that you cannot for a moment grasp how
millions of little images made in this manner are all in
touch with the millions of cells in the brain through these
threads. Imagine an immense spider's web about you. All
the strands bear memories or thoughts to the brain as
the wires transmit telegraphic messages, and can carry to
the brain messages, or, rather, the sign of the image that
has been created through impress being made on some-
thing plastic with the assistance of this essence.
99
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
Your words make it impossible. You have no term, for
instance, for this clay that receives the impression. I call
it clay, but it is not of the nature of matter. This clay-as I
call it for want of a better word--is the substance out of
which thought is constructed. Of course, it is notsubstance
as you understand it. Very well, then, this clay receives
all the impressions your sight, hearing, and touch convey,
but it does not make the connecting thread with the brain
cell unless your will makes the conscious effort which is
necessary for its construction. You now ask: what is will?
Will is the energy that flows to you from the large indi-
vidual mind without you, added, of course,to thecollection
of images that are all attached to the physical brain as I
have already tried to indicate. The will is influenced by
the physical body. The larger mind contains that infinite
subtlety of atoms that are not_destroyed through the death
of that crude machine, the body. Actually, though I call
them atoms, they would appear to you to be of a fluid
character. I want you to realise, though, that the essential
You is something that is composite as long as you are
alive. It is an alliance between what is material and what
you call immaterial. The body or matter has certain
yearnings brought about by the actual nature of its
construction. These are not you, but they dominate you,
because they can usually command much of what is
immaterial and can enter into the directive process that
goes on in the cells of the brain. These cells are so highly
sensitive that they can and do respond to the stimulus
of a being who is motion rather than substance. Think of
your will, then, as motion; ever by its active energy
coalescing these images-marshalling them-causing the
brain, which is the only part at all sensitive to pure motion,
to draw upon the threads that are attached to these images
when the need for their uprisal in the consciousness is
made manifest. I have tried to explain what you cannot
possibly conceive so long as you are in matter.
IOO
MEMORY
Memory out of the body is a different affair altogether.
When we become discarnate beings we are far more de-
tached from the earthly images for the reason that they are
no longer boundto us bymatter through the medium ofthe
brain cells. The threads, as you must realise, are broken
by death. It does not mean that these images of all the
impressions ever made on you are destroyed, they still
exist, but we, when we choose, can, under certain psychic
conditions, draw those images we desire to us by making
the effort of the will that places us amongst them. We do
not draw them to us as when we are alive, with labour
and difficulty, we simply make the necessary effort which
places us in the state that makes it possible for us to per-
ceivetheimageswedesire.Now,wearenotinthatstatewhen
we communicate through you. That is our difficulty. We
arequite detachedfrom theseimages,andunlessthemedium
hasthe psychicpowerofabsorbingthefacts demanded from
our memory-with our assistance, of course-we can-
not provide you with the evidence you require. The
ordinary human being does not possess this particular
power, which is a kind of overflow of the fluid which
takes the shape of your body and is about you, though
invisible.
These images are outside the brain. They are outside
the body, being connected.by threads that are invisible to
youbecausetheypassthrough matterand are notthemselves
matter. They are amenable to touch certainly, but are not
remembered unless a very considerable effort is made
to draw in the appropriate thread and its image. Even
then there are many images that cannot be drawn
within the normal consciousness. I cannot find in the
English language words sufficiently exact to make my
meaning clear.
Now, memory may be likened to the sea. It is all about
you, and as elusive as the water of the ocean. When we
are alive we come to it like children with our small buckets
IOI
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
and fill them with the salt fluid. How little we carry
away up the sands. How easily and swiftly we spill it
upon the ground. Yet, behind us is that vast area of
water booming endlessly upon the shore. The sound
of memory is now to me like the sound of the tide,
as when in ~e olden days I listened to it through the
summer evemngs.
I want you to think of memory as this great sea. It gives
of itself to the earth through all the seasons. It is, there-
fore, all about you as moisture is about you. Even when
you are on earth you may draw from this invisible memory
almost unknowingly. And, as one country has a damper
atmosphere, a heavier rainfall than another, so will one
mentality draw to it agreater shareofthecollectivememory
than another. It is changed when filtered through the
brain of man; it takes upon itself his colour, his person-
ality, and eventually it comes up to his consciousness as
original thought, but horribly dull and unoriginal at times.
For the average man draws through him mostly the recent
memory ejected by many living brains. The thinker has a
greater capacity for drawing to him the memories that lie
in the depths of human nature, the strong memory, not
the superficial one that is tossed off by the brain of man
at the moment. What is rapidly cast off does not continue
to live for any length of time. It is only the emotional
memories, or the memories created by a fine vehemence,
that permanently continue.
Man is like a power station, constantly generating the
fresh electric fluid of memory, constantly receiving, con-
stantly giving out again. Human beings cling to their
individualities; probably it is but fitting that they should
do so. But only what is fundamentally themselves, what
is the very kernel of their being, survives the continual
dissolution. For, my friend, in life we are mentally per-
petually dying; in other words, as in every third season
the tree casts off its leaves, so do we, as the years go troop-
I02
MEMORY
ing by, continually cast off our memories. And in so doing
we change very considerably. What a stranger the boy
Tom Jones of ten years old is to the man Tom Jones
whose sixty years have sounded I How shy and self-con-
scious they would be if they met! How, in many respects,
they would dislike each other! But, from far down, there
would come some elusive stirring, some strange thrilling,
deep calling to deep, if you will; so that these two, the boy
aged ten and the man aged sixty, would, despite their
superficial differences, be drawn to each other as surely
as the magnet draws the iron. They would scarcely know
why they thus responded, flew together despite their
conscious incongruities. But they would inevitably re-
spond, be thus drawn together. For something deeper than
individual memory compels this unity. They share
very few concrete memories, they are strangers. But
the fine core of things has moved them to be comrades,
friends.
In like manner, when men and women journey into this
new state of life they meet, perhaps after many years,
wives, husbands, sons, daughters who have tarried twenty
or thirty years behind them on the earth. If all is well, if
they meet again in the world of the departed souls, they
will not recognise each other through memory of facts.
They will know each other through something that goes
far deeper than that memory. Love and hate, caution and
impetuosity, all the qualities that lie at the base of a man's
or a woman's nature, will cause them to recognise each
other, so that there is no need for reference, or for search
in the Book of Life. The fundamental knowledge still re-
mains, and the old ties may be renewed, that is, if they
belong to the fundamental part of you. But please believe
me, since I died I have not remained stationary. I have
been changing, evolving, putting on, if you will, like the
trees, a fresh coat of leaves, but unchanged within ; so that
my wife and my children will know me though some of
103
THE "ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
my earth memories be buried as the foliage underground
when winter comes.
In stating that some of my earth memories are a closed
booktome I donotwish to indicate that they are cut offirre-
trievably from me. They do not, in my present state, assist
me, for I am exceedingly occupied on the Fourth plane in
forging new impressions out of a fresh set of experiences
in form. Be assured I shall, in the intermediate state be-
tween the Fourth and Fifth plane of being, review all
those earth memories again.
NOTE. The statements concerning discarnate beings contained in
these two essays on memory apply to souls when they are living
consciously on the Fourth plane.-F. W. H. M.
104
XVI
THE GREAT MEMORY
THE Great Memory is, if you will, the subconscious mind
of the whole human race. In our life, as in yours, there is
the consciousness, the self known to other discarnate
beings who live in the same state as those akin to them
fundamentally. But there is also a deeper self, which is the
self of the world, imperishable as I believe, containing
what was and is, containing also what shall be. For the
history of man from the earliest to the latest times is all
within what is sometimes called "The Tree of Memory."
!0~o~a~;a~e;lffa~!~k~~~fu:~:r:::~~=~~~:~;f,:
I tell you they have happened, tQ£:they.,.4yye, al.rf;!aqyJ~-~~n
b~:t;)~_!he. itn!lgiJ:!~!iQn 9f.Go-il"~But the future is difficult
to Yead, I mean d1fficult for men to read, because the
memory of the future has not been so deeply impressed
upon the invisible timeless substance, in that it has been
thought only once and not twice, thought by the Maker of
the Universes: therefore, it is very fine and faint, and only
its echo is caught by certain mortals who have the inner
hearing. Whereas the gross and clumsy subjective thinking
of man causes past memories to be, from the point of view
of the sensitive, more definitely shaped in the flowing
energy.
I want you to understand the significance of this vast
memory in the lives of the ever-living, whom you may
call "departed souls." These, in pursuing their present
existence, can live away from the memory of all past
existence, or they can resume a vanished personality by
picking up the threads from the Great Memory and suck-
xes
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
ing in from them, as you might suck a sugar cane, the
nourishment of a past personality. It is not always per-
fectly shaped when the discarnate being endeavours to
communicate. Sometimes only a little of the past indi-
vidual's garment of mortality is taken from the great
storehouse and, for a brief while, displayed.
Now, I would call your attention to an important point
in this connection. We, you and I, are each recorded on
some page in this Great Memory. We must, as players in
a drama, re-learn the old part before we endeavour to
speak to our friends on earth, through a medium. As a
rule we neglect this task, or we succeed in obtaining only
a glimpse of the memory that enshrines our vanished
personality. We have vanished and we have not vanished.
It is hard to explain this duality. Fundamentally we are
the same as we were when a loved wife, mother, or sister
bade us "good-bye" in the earth life. We are the same in
the sense that we should continue to have a feeling of
repulsion for certain things and people we disliked on
earth, and the old affections would flame up if we met
again those people and things that were dear to us. But
if by personality you mean the sum total of our earth
memories--our knowledge of Greek and Latin, our know-
ledge of concrete facts-then we are indeed changed, in
that we can, as a rule, only resuscitatetheold knowledge by
obtaining contactwiththatpartofthe Great Memory which
is ours. Yetwe do retain-apartfrom it-our old mentality,
much ofits idiosyncrasies. That part of ourselves that is no
longer integral, that has become detached, is the fleeting
physical consciousness of that period when we bade the
earth farewell; is the aggregation of memory concerning
facts ill our earth life, concerning certain concrete know-
ledge memorised by us. Emotional memory remains an
integral part of the soul, for it comes from the creative Life.
106
XVII
ATTENTION
FOR THE INCARNATE AND DISCARNATE BEING
I WILL define attention. As you know it, in physiological
terms attention is the direction by the will of a certain
nerve-force into certain special cells of the brain. That is,
suppose I want to recall the image ofSt. Mark's in Venice;
I direct the nerve-force into that special cell or cells con-
nected with my memory of Venice. The entity created by
Venetian experiences wakes into life, and becomes for a
time a "personality," while all the time, quite behind it, in
the background, is the controlling will; but the Venetian
self is expressing its personality during that period. I
merely take Venice as an example. These centres of per-
sonality have been, I think, created usually by a network
of far more complicated associations and memories. They
have each of them been derived from a series of funda-
mental experiences that have cut deep into the soft
material of the soul.
Attention for the Discarnate Being
Try and think of the mind as a web: in it are numerous
centres about which radiate thoughts and memories. Any
one of these centres can direct its attention towards the
earth. We are all fundamentally one, but when we con-
centrate upon some special operation of thought we be-
come divided. In order that we may become one again we
have to travel far from you. We must be fused in the spirit
again. I do not, by the word "far," wish to indicate dis-
tance as you know it, I merely wish to indicate that the
107
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
very fineness of our composition leads us, when we are
one, to be remote from you. You possibly will not believe
me when I tell you that each star has its own personality.
It is one and yet it is many. In the same way you, even
when in the body, are, in the same material sense, one yet
many. There are myriads of little entities within you but
there is only one mind or one channel for the mind. The
interesting feature of my state here is that I am within a
larger mind which is not a collective one but is rounded
off from many others. Many of my affinities are contained
in it. All those phases in my earth life are represented by
these various centres.
I have spoken to you of attention in a physiological
sense. I have described it as a stream of nervous energy,
being directed towards certain cells or a certain cell in the
brain, these being connected with certain images. Very
well. As we are now constituted we have no material brain,
but we possess a certain psychic web. This web is not
exactlyon the plan ofthe brain.It does not contain millions .
of tiny neurons or compartments, but it contains several
centres which can draw or attract a stream of psychic
energy from the Unifying Principle. If a great effort is
made there can be attention in more than one direction,
but not always. It is possible when we are communicating
with the world that we can only supply one centre or focus
at a time with this active stream or motive force. This is
quite easy to understand, for a considerable effort of con-
centration is required when we manipulate another deeper
mind. Sometimes we succeed in communicating with two
people at once, but it is exceedingly difficult. The interest-
ing point for you in connection with these centres or
half-way houses is that the memory of what we have
communicated is lodged therein, or rather it is in touch
with that centre and no other centre with that focus, and
also with the Unifying Principle, which, as you know,
contains many in one.
I08
XVIII
THE SUBLIMINAL SELF
I PROMISED to speak to you about the inner content of
mind. I think, perhaps, I had better commence by speak-
ing of man as a living organism. That seems a curious idea
to me now, but I must use your terms as you understand
them. To begin with, scientists have not in the least
realised how very detached consciousness-or the soul-is
from the body. The latter is the inheritance received from
many past generations. It is in itself an empire, polyzoic
and even polypsychic. It is, in fact, infinitely more com-
plicated, with three degrees of nerves, those of the higher
centres, those of the middle and lower. These nerves are
the keys upon which our consciousness plays. Now, I want
you to understand that we, in our etheric condition, to a
certain degree correspond with the physical organism.
Have you ever pondered over that mysterious phrase, "in
the beginning the image was made flesh"? I may quote
incorrectly, but that phrase, or one that is similar to it,
which you will find in the Bible,1 contains a vast truth.
The living organism is, to a certain degree, a reflection of
whatis intheUnseen. ThereisaUnifyingPrincipleofwhich
I have already told you. There are also minor conscious-
nesses which I have already spoken of as centres, or as the
focus. When I communicate with the earth, one of these
minor consciousnesses, or psychic entities, takes possession
of the medium, supplanting one of the psychic entities
which she possesses. We never supplant what I call the
Unifying Principle in her; if we did, she would go mad.
It is a very difficult feat, and is only attempted by certain
1 John i. 1 and i. 14.
109
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
malevolent entities on this side. Now, can you imagine a
country, take England for example, dotted over with towns
all self-contained, yet looking to that vast city London for
general directions and for a certain essential stimulus?
Such is the condition of the discarnate being. He is a
kingdom, bounded by what would seem to have the
appearance of a veil. It has a curious elasticity. I mean, we
differ from the kingdom to which I have alluded in that
we can alter at will the shape of this very subtle material
or fluid. We differ in many other respects. Our surround-
ings are of a metetheric character. You may ask me to
define this. It is exceedingly difficult. But I think I may
say that it contains atoms ofthe very finest kind. They pass
through your coarser matter. They belong to another state
altogether.
You may then ask: "How does your world or state
differ from our earth?" It differs very considerably, for
the reason that this fluid is quite unformed. After death,
if we are sufficiently developed, we enter into our sub-
liminal self. When we were alive we believed that there
were two forms of consciousness: one the inner mind,
the other the supraliminal, the latter was above the
threshold and controlled our ordinary business, appear-
ing to direct operations generally. We looked on the
subliminal as being that which was below the threshold,
the inner mind, the inspired part of our nature, the crea-
tive source. Very well then, since I have passed over I have
come to realise that actually, in the sense of pure mind,
there is no supraliminal part. There is in its stead an
infinitely complicated machine which has become more
and more subtilised through the centuries, so that now it
responds to the slightest of vibrations, sent out by the
subliminal, or what youmayperhaps call thesubconscious,
mind. Of what, then, does the supraliminal or ordinary
consciousness consist? Of a very wonderful nerve-
memory; of all the physical desires of the body, to a large
IIO
THE SUBLIMINAL SELF
extent controlled by that nerve-memory; and lastly, and
most important, of the reflection of the subliminal part of
you. Usually, the subliminal sends its reflection, which,
to a faint or a powerful degree, is received by the fluid
shape which I call the nerve-memory. This, in its tum,
transmits the reflection in vibrations to the brain. Normal
consciousness is to a certain degree threefold. It consists
in the main of the image interpreted by the nerve-
memory, and of the material part, the brain, which is
responsive to the image sent by this inner mind. But that
is not by any means all. The brain and body, as a rule,
must set the desire for the image in motion before the
latter can be despatched and made perceptible. In short,
the body must be receptive, or, rather, the nerves and
brain must receive and register. These two alter and
elaborate, or they simplify and give colour to, the contri-
bution that has come from the higher portion of man's
nature. There is also a reverse process: the assimilation of
impressions of the material wodd by the brain which are
transferred to the higher centres and returned in due
course. There is, in short, a constant trafficking during the
individual's waking hours between these various parts of
his being.
Many points still require elucidation. You probably
desire to know where is that positive, and very frequently
objectionable, entity the "ego." It is a sum in arithmetic,
a figure worthy of the attention of mathematicians. It is
really the sum total of the physical needs of man, and the
accretions through many generations of inherited memo-
ries, added to his innate capacity for corresponding with
the inner mind and for receiving its image. Now there are
times of creative activity which scholars have been kind
enough to allocate to the inner mind. Then great works are
produced, and you cannot understand the mystery of their
creation. They are produced through a certain singular
aptitude on the part of the brain, which responds to the
III
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
message from the inner mind directing the nerve-memory.
The fluid shape does not act as a medium, and there is in
consequence no blurred interpretation. Added to this, of
course, must be a considerable store of knowledge, or
images, all connected with the brain-cells by those in-
visible threads of which I have already spoken. You must
realise that the act of creation, then, is collaboration. The
stream of energy from the inner mind moulds the work of
art, partly out of these associations, these memories, but
also partly out of the harvest of floating thoughts, from
which it can draw more directly when the fluid shape is
not the actual medium. In the caseofthenormalconscious-
ness the fluid shape plays an important part and is largely
the "ego." It will very frequently draw from the psychic
entities, the minor consciousnesses; but these usually are
directly bound up with the Unifying Principle, they are
merely its tributaries. When there is a disintegration of
personality it is sometimes due to one of these entities
losing touch with the Unifying Principle, owing to the
possible misbehaviour ofthe fluid shape or nerve-memory,
which sends out a too powerful appeal to this psychic
entity. The central consciousness, however, is usually, if
directly evoked, able to obtain control again. I want you,
in the light of my remarks, to consider and study the
evolution of man. The larger mind has been there, in a
state at times unformed, from the dark ages, from the
beginning if there ever was a beginning, which I doubt.
At first this mind found it could only at times send faint
reflections to primitive people, whom it had gradually
evolved, created as a sculptor creates. But in time the
form of man developed, and was the more easily able to
receive the image. The Word was made flesh with greater
and greater facility.
You may ask, in connection with mind, why it thus
sought to express itself? It desired individuality; it, too,
desired form; and form and individuality were, to a certain
II2
THE SUBLIMINAL SELF
degree, achieved through this constant interchange be-
tween mind and matter. But, mark you, it is still the
essence of matter-the nerves and nerve-memory-that
dominates and controls the actions ofthe human being. So
seek for the normal ego, when you are a living woman, in
the nerve-soul, in the construction of the brain and body,
and in the image sent by the Unifying Principle. The Word
was made flesh. In that phrase you may find the whole
mystery of man's nature, the sum total of his being.
You desire to know what is ordinary consciousness. The
actual constructive force is, in its essence, the nerve-
soul; but ordinary consciousness is a sum in arithmetic.
The needs of the body, the cravings of the mechanisms,
are all influencing the nerve-soul in its decisions. What
you call the subconscious is the reflection, the light from
above. Sometimes it is feeble because the summons is
weak. It also plays a part in the decision. Time, of course,
is a factor that puzzles you in this connection, but the
whole organisation is through centuries of evolution, so
subtilised that it can make its decision rapidly. In the days
of primitive man, the I, the constructive force-the "ego"
-was principally the body; the nerves-the fluid shape
even-were subordinate. I want you to understand that
there are not, save in very rare cases, two wills making
decisions at the same time consciously. There is only one,
because there is only one channel; but the subliminal self,
which is outside the larger mind-ifyou prefer that term-
is exceedingly active, and, when messages in daytime are
sent to it through the channel, that is to say, via the nerve-
soul, then this mind works upon the message and sends it
during sleep, in a new guise, back to the nerve-soul, which
it can easily do, because the soul is apart from the body,
quite still, and yet able to reflect the desired image which
it craved for in waking hours. This is, on waking, attached
H
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
by it to the brain cells, and you find some problem solved
for you as by a magician when you are roused again out of
sleep.
Initiative during the day, then, comes from the nerve-
soul, fed by the image or the reflection from the subliminal,
and influenced always by the body and its desires.
XIX
SLEEP
I WANT you to understand that I have not by any means
explored the possibilities of the subliminal self in that
little essay ofmine. Please regard it merely as a preliminary
canter. I have been puzzled as to the treatment of it.
When I was a dead man, that is to say when I was alive
on earth, I believed that sleep was simply a withdrawal of
the spirit, an emptying of the chambers of the brain and
a search for refreshment in another world, or, rather, that
there was a replenishing of spiritual energy, a kind of
irrigation, and that from it there came that freshness, that
sense of invigoration, which we have all experienced on
waking to a new day. I believed firmly in a life passed in
two worlds, and in this I was perfectly right. I was puzzled
as to the exact conditions obtained during slumber, now
I am more sensible of them. Actually the nerve-soul is
·detached from the body when you are in the state you
call sleep. That means there is no direct interpreter, or
medium, between the spirit and the brain cells. This is
important. The body, as I have previously stated, is largely
dominated by this nerve-soul. It becomes almost quiescent
when the latter is withdrawn into ametetheric atmosphere.
The nerve-soul is bathed in this atmosphere, and receives
a very necessary stimulus, or rather nourishment, from
what I believe you now call ether. But ether is a broad
term, and it is in reality a subdivision of ether that feeds
the nerve-soul during sleep. Perhaps I should coin a new
word and call it "Etheric Essence." I feel I am most
audacious in thus infringing on the rights of physicists,
who alone should christen the elements-both visible and
IIS
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
invisible. Now, while the nerve-soul is absent, the spirit is
still close to the body. It cannot send the image-as I have
termed it-directly to the brain. It makes no effort to do
so usually, but there are occasions when the higher nerve
centres are in a particularly susceptible state. Then the
spiritmay endeavourtocastupon itsome image,orratherto
direct one, through invoking a residuumof power that has
been left behind by the nerve-soul. Then your sleeper will
dream, perhaps, of some future event, or will image some
violent death that is taking place elsewhere. The spirit
draws within it the reflection of certain emotional affinities
of the being who is slumbering and it thus succeeds on
rare occasions in casting an image ofthe future, or of some
present happening, upon the quiescent brain.
Now, you mayask me to explain theoriginofthe foolish,
and apparently chaotic, dreams that visit the sleeper
nightly. These, ifyou have the key, are neither foolish nor
chaotic. Very often there is a steady nerve-irritation during
the day, a firm suppression of emotions. This leads, on
occasions, to the photographing of some of the causes of
irritation, and these photos or pictures are bound to the
neurons that have been active during the day. They (the
pictures) are in a web of threads. There is no controlling
entity, but the nerves can, and do, react upon them ·
making confused and foolish patterns. They are in every
sense of the word nerve-visions, and must not be regarded
as reflections emanating from a higher source.
I have defined attention as the direction of nervous
energy into certain special cells of the brain. Now, if this
flow has been violent and prolonged during waking hours,
the vibration will continue. The echoes, as it were, of that
concentration will still be resounding, but mingling with
other echoes, other impressions, and these make a certain
sequence that, at times, is added to by some very old
associations. During the day, perhaps, you have seen a
bonnet that reminded you of a dead grandmother. The
II6
SLEEP
actual reminder may be faint, but it will be suflicient to
stir the thread that binds an old association to your brain
cell. When control is relaxed, and sleep comes, the image
of your grandmother figures in your dream. She has been
drawn on to the canvas, through the visioning of a bonnet,
some hours before. As the memory was of old times, it was
far from the seat ofoperations, and the passage oftime was
necessary before it could arrive.
I fear I am writing in a rather dull fashion, but what I
want to indicate is that the memories, the images of them,
and the nerves, play a game of hide-and-seek with each
other within the brain during sleep. The spirit cannot
send the controlling image, nor can that fluid shape, with
its agglomeration ofexperiences, exert itselfin the manage-
ment of the vast population in the brain. I know also that,
if the nerves be brittle or in a high state of tension, it is
possible for them to be to a certain degree guided by a
minor consciousness. But, though this entity gives the
impulse of movement, it must obey the nerves which
dominate, and owing to some harassing and latent memory
compel the sleeper to arise and walk. This will usually
account for sleep-walking. The nerves control the minor
consciousness instead of the latter controlling them. But
usually this psychic entity has just sufficient power to
prevent the sleeper from falling into any great danger, or
it can give the signal of alarm to the nerve-soul, and cause
it to hurry back to the body again and assume control.
I have spoken of sleep in a rather crude manner, and
I have endeavoured to show you that it is owing to the
need of nourishment that the nerve-soul, or interpreter,
has to withdraw and that this leads to an isolating process.
The spirit can still animate the body; but only in very
rare cases can it influence the directive centres in the
brain, for its medium is absent. Undoubtedly during the
hours of sleep a certain stratum of the subliminal self per-
vades the brain, or would seem to do so. What actually
117
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
occurs is this. Certain old associations, old emotions, have
been roused by events during the day. The nerve-soul has
not allowed them to enter the active consciousness, it was
busy with other matters. They have remained there, like
a stream that is dammed up. The dam is removed, through
the absence of the nerve-soul, and these memories, par-
ticularly if the nerves be in a state of tension, flood the
field of the brain, and enter again the old frames, looking
down once more on that interior where they had been,
for a brief space, its decorations and the images of con-
scious thought.
I will speak very briefly about hypnosis. The large
majority of hypnotised subjects are not hypnotised at all.
But, if I may take a case of genuine hypnotism, I will show
you that in one essential, at least, it differs from ordinary
sleep. The nerve-soul of the subject is suspended, but it
is not, save in a very extreme instance, absent from the
body. It is not permitted to act. It forbids its own actions.
That is an important point. The individual who hypnotises
cannot, unless thereis somemorbid conditionofthe nerves,
compel the individual to give up his will, that is to say,
suspend the nerve-soul. Now the subliminal self is
in a sense drawn nearer to the body through this sus-
pension. Its creative flow no longer circulates, for it
requires its medium and the latter is suspended. But
another stratum of the subliminal self can be, and is often,
summoned. I refer principally to that section connected
with buried memories. Now the command ofthe hypnotist
sets in motion some of the fluid shape, some of the essence
directed by the nerve-soul when it operates, it, too, being
a part of that invisible fluid body. A portion of its essence
is used, merely in order that certain sunken memories may
be drawn to the surface. They could not come ifthe nerve-
soul were actively operating in conjunction with the image
sent by the subliminal self. Actually hypnotism opens up
a more direct road to the subliminal mind, that is to say,
II8
SLEEP
that part of it which is loose and floating. The Unifying
Principle, the centre that sends the message when the
ordinary consciousness is operating, is also out of touch
when its medium is suspended.
You will understand, therefore, that a part only of the
subliminal self can be drawn on by the subject.
II9
XX
TELEPATHY
MAY I give you my opinion as regards telepathy between
the living? It is different in some respects from telepathy
from the dead. There must be a far greater adjustment on
our side than when the two subjects are alive. However,
we are perfectly conscious of our inner mind, so, on the
whole, it is simpler for us. If you were more fully aware
of your deeper mind it would become quite easy for you
to act as a receiver or as a transmitter. But let me try and
explain. I have already spoken of a fluid body which links
up the subconscious mind with the physical body. Now,
this fluid shape, as I shall call it, is constantly changing, it
has an elasticity quite foreign to the physical body. It is
decidedly impressionable, amazingly sensitive. The trouble
is that it is not intimately connected with the brain; or,
rather, the human being does not understand how to make
that connection. He can do so partly by detaching his mind
from certain matters so that the actual mechanism is not
working at top speed. It can also be manipulated in another
way. Now, there is memory in relation to the fluid. It can
be tapped through the fluid. The fluid can also receive
what you call the telepathic message. It does indeed re-
ceive many of them, but only in the case of certain rare
human beings can the telepathic record be conveyed to the
brain. I want to make clear that the fluid launches a mes-
sage into space. It is not carried usually by any entity, but
there are many floating filaments of mind which help to
draw it into the fluid on which it makes the impression
that may be conveyed from it to the brain.
The scientist seems to believe that no physiological or
120
TELEPATHY
physical means can explain telepathy between the living.
I say that the physiology of the soul can explain it. That
would at first sight seem a contradiction in terms, but
actually it is not quite the case. There are infinitesimal
particles not yet discovered by human beings. They are
so minute that you would not recognise them as matter.
But to the dead, who have far finer perceptions, these
particles are suggestive of matter though they cannot be
said to resemble matter in most particulars. Anyway,
these tiny atoms are influenced by emotion and will. These
give a driving force to the atoms, the brain can give them
the shape in which they are received.
The nerve-soul or the nerve-memory is, naturally, very
much influenced by the consciousness. I have already told
you that it responds very rapidly to stimuli. Verywell, the
consciousness braces itself for an effort. It desires to catch
the thought sent by the agent when you arrange a tele-
pathicexperiment. That meredesire has,with manypeople,
the effect of stiffening the nerve-soul into a kind of still-
ness. In that condition it is motionless. It cannot receive.
The brain has sent an instinctive warning to it not to
receive. In this case instinct conquers the conscious
desire. It is the instinct that protects the individual against
the inroads of alien thought. In its essence it is a right
one. If you kept perpetually registering the thoughts of
others a very unwholesome condition of brain might
develop. Nature, therefore, gives the human being this
protection from the many arrows of thought that might
pierce the armour of consciousness and injure the mechan-
ism. If a human being has this instinct sufficiently con-
trolled he is likely to prove receptive. The nerve-memory
or nerve-soul is, of course,very directly connected with the
inner mind which plays its part in the reception of a tele-
pathic message.
* * * * *
The term "fluid" must not be taken in its literal sense.
121
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
I would not have used such a word in this connection
when on earth. But now, for the sake of simplicity, and
because the nerve-soul or shape is suggestive of some-
thing that flows, I employ this term which, at least, is
suggestive and not in any respect technical.
Neither must the words I have employed in connection
·with the planes be taken literally. They are symbolic of
those particular states.
NoTB TO SECOND EDITION. I am at present on the Fourth plane,
which is known to me as "Eidos." I have, however, been, as St. Paul,
permitted, when in a certain subjective state, to travel even to the
Seventh Heaven to commune with God and to obtain thereby a
renewal of spiritual strength. When I communed thus, I obtained
what certain rare mystics obtain, a knowledge and sense of the Whole
and of its various parts. This knowledge I brought back with me-or
at any rate a fragment of it-to Eidos. I have also gathered knowledge
from the souls who dwell on the higher planes. These may descend
to us in Eidos when we withdraw from that world, entering for a time
into the quiet and into that prayerful solitude that can be peopled with
higher beings.-F. W. H. M.
122
XXI
THE INTERPENETRATION OF THOUGHT
BETWEEN THE TWO WORLDS
THERE is continual interpenetration of thought between
the visible and invisible worlds and that is what makes
communication with you all the more difficult. Ifwecould
separate and classify the vast accumulation of floating
thought from the living and the dead it would be far
more easy then, with the way clear, to send you one easy
flow of thought from one individual discarnate mind.
It is possible to get lost in the vast forest of men's fancies,
more particularly when you go out as a discarnate explorer.
You are pretty sure to pick up false trails and in the end
to give up the soluble problem in disgust. I speak not alone
of minds but of the continual currents of thought thrown
out by such millions tossed through our mighty Mother,
the Universe, whose illimitable womb harbours them
all.
I beg of you to remember that I am but a fallible shade.
However, it is well in this difficult matter to lay down as
our foundation certain premises. Firstly, let us take, for
example, the average educated man. It is possible for him,
while in the physical body, and while he is at the zenith of
his mental power, to enter three states which differ very
considerably from one another: first, the condition of deep
sleep; second, the subjective state; third, the state of
ordinary consciousness. You must allow much latitude for
the subjective condition. It can vary to a wide degree. It
may be induced by artificial means, through hypnotism.
A subject well trained to respond to the hypnotist will, as
you are aware, perform amazing feats, recall memories of
123
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
early childhood, be insensible to pain, and, I believe, even
obtain, at times, knowledge that appears to be of a wholly
supernormal character. The Indian mystic can enter very
easily into the subjective state and can, at times, learn of
the doings of strangers who are many miles away from
him. He can, in short, make mental journeys.
Now, in our life-the life ofthe so-called dead-there are
three states also, though it cannot be said that they closely
resemble the three orders of consciousness that prevail
for man. Even when asleep you are, in a sense, conscious,
sometimes more so than when you are in this subjective
state, for pain or noise may rouse you, whereas the deeply
entranced man may not feel pain, may not be even roused
by thunder. When we discarnate beings desire to commu-
nicate through some sensitive we enter a dream or sub-
jective state. There are two degrees of it that are important
in relation to ourselves. If we are but slightly entranced
we are detached from the memory of concrete facts
in our past life. Further, if we communicate directly
through the medium, though we often retain our per-
sonality, our manner of speech, we are frequently unable
to communicate through the medium's hand orvoice many
exact facts about our past career on earth, sometimes not
even our own names.
We can enter into the deeper mind of the medium and
read many of the memories belonging to him, which are
outside the cells, or neurons, being joined to them by
invisible threads.
Now, you are awlire of the strange association of ideas.
You met a Mr. Tom Jones at a tea-party ten years ago.
You had forgotten all about him, even his name, but
someone mentions it to you. At the moment it means
nothing, perhaps, but in a minute or two you remember
the Mr. Tom Jones you met ten years ago at a tea-party.
In the same manner the discarnate being may find certain
memories in the subconsciousness of the medium which
124
INTERPENETRATION OF THOUGHT
will recall certain facts connected with his past earth life.
Then the memory is rapidly communicated.
I would now speak of the second degree of trance which
may be penetrated by the discarnate being. It is a pleasant
and, at times, veryhappystate. It isnearertotheconditionof
sleep and dreams than theonelhave previously mentioned.
When we are on this plane of consciousness we can enter
the subjective mind of man. But it is necessary that he
should come to our aid in this respect. He must either be
closely bound to us by ties of affection or he must be what
you call "psychic." Very well, those dear friends or rela-
tives, who through their affection or love, or intense
interest in us, conjure us up in their subjective thought,
open the door to us dreaming shades, and we enter again
into the earth dream. We perceive pictures of actual earth
happenings, imprinting themselves on the subconscious
mind of the one who has cleared the way for us, bridged
the chasm with their love or their intense interest. Often
we perceive most trivial incidents mirrored on their sub-
consciousness. Sometimes, when we are really thoroughly
submerged in this dream atmosphere, we can get into
touch not alone with one subconscious mind but with the
subconscious mind· of many thousands. It is like a wide
sea stretching out before us. Much of it is scarcely appre-
hended. We can only tap it here and there, but, with the
assistance of the guide we may draw out of this sea of
mind the particular association of ideas that corresponds
with a happening, a name, or a place in our earth life..We
recognise it and use it as evidence of identity when we are
communicating.
Now, the third subjective state leads us to the Great
Memory, but, alas, it is not the condition or state in which
we approach our people on earth. We can gather up many
of our memories when we thus reach out into the vast
subconscious-or rather super-conscious-mind of the
race. So I will not dwell upon this aspect at any great
125
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
length beyond remarking that those who have been among
discarnate beings for many ages, those who are highly
developed, the possessors of wisdom among us, can, on
very rare occasions, while in the third state, communicate
through a sensitive the actual history recorded in the
Great Memory. But such beings are not suffered to com-
municate their own wisdom, for it cannot be expressed
in terms of language, only an echo being sometimes caught
which is rendered in the form of the inspired utterance of
genius. Nevertheless, discarnate beings, who have only
been a few years absent from the earth, in many cases
cannot enter into this third subjective condition when
they use the physical mechanism in order to give their
thoughts to the world.
It is true that we communicate by pictures or images,
by signs which the deeper mind of the sensitive appre-
hends, and sometimeswe may convey, by a sign or symbol,
a name or word unknown to the medium. It would be
well for you to note that what you call "normal conscious-
ness" means the raising up of the barriers between your
mind and another man's mind. But behind all that there
is among human beings a deeper self, a subjective men-
tality that can trespass into the domain of other subliminal
selves, that meets with few barriers. This matter, however,
belongs to another story.
I would ask you not to be troubled by my remark that
when discarnate beings pursue an active, eager life here
the greater part of their concrete memories are temporarily
in abeyance. Mark you, they are in a state ofnormal psychic
consciousness under such circumstances. But a discarnate
son and father, or any others who have dear remembrance
of one another, may, if they so desire, recapture all their
old memories of facts in their earth life if they choose to
enter the third subjective state together. Then these two
discarnate beings can re-enact, if they will, the drama of
their earth career page by page. They can recall all the
126
INTERPENETRATION OF THOUGHT
infinitesimal knowledge they reaped with such care on
earth. Homer, The Odyssey, all the painfully acquired
Greek and Latin ofschool-boydays, recollections ofyouth-
ful games, of hoarded learning may be gathered anew in
all clearness. The very conversations at tea-tables or at
dull dinner parties can be recalled and digested, perhaps
with some boredom again. You can gather to you all the
old rusty relics, all the little quarrels and worries, all your
proudly gotten learning if that is your desire. But you
must, of course, enter, with your friend or relative, into
the third subjective state if you yearn to play again the old
rOles in the past, if you would wistfully finger once more
the precious little details of circumstance and happenings
in your earth life, if you would, indeed, be like some old
man or woman who takes from their drawer ancient love-
letters, lockets of hair, and little miniatures framed in gold
which recall dear departed days.
But many of us are of an adventurous temperament. It
amuses us, for a while, to dally with these pages in the
Book of Life, and from them, when we meet our loved
ones after death, we derive a certain wistful pleasure, or a
quiet delight, without the pangs of the flesh attached to
them. We tire, however, after a very brief while, of these
heaped-up remains of our past careers, all so carefully
stored in the Great Granary. We would pass from out one
fold oftime into another; we would be bold and adventure
into the imagination of God. So, while in this third sub-
jective state, we turn again the pages of the Book of Life
and read the future of our race. We gaze upon a drama
that has not yet been enacted upon the earth, the vague
echo of which is sometimes caught by prophets and sooth-
sayers. We perceive the wanderings of those begotten by
us, the fate of those who are of our blood, who bear upon
their foreheads the seal of kinship with us. And, indeed,
many of us sorrowfully close the Book of Life when we ·
have thus gazed into a future that is not yet for men,
127
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
sprung out of the Unknown, out of the boundless sea,
which, I must again remind you, is the creation of the
all-pervading imagination of God.
Finally, the power to enter the third subjective state and
thus to follow the future as well as the past, page by page,
is bestowed only upon those souls whom human beings
-to use a trite adjective-would call "advanced" or would
hail as "spiritually developed." Many millions of souls,
who have passed through the Gates of Death, rest within
the borders and limitations of their own psychic develop-
ment. I use the word "psychic" here in the general sense,
not in its relation to the study of survival after death. Such
myriad souls follow a road and a destiny that does not, as
a rule, lead them for a time, at least, to the great super-
conscious mind of the earth. These so-called dead remain
in spheres and states of pleasant-or sometimes disagree-
able--illusion. I cannot write concerning all the souls who
pass to an invisible life from the arms of their foster
mother-earth.
NoTE. When I say we are in a subjective state during the time of
communication, I would imply by it a special form of concentration
so that we are able thus to detach ourselves from the life we live on,
say, the Fourth plane. Equally, when a human being is engaged on a
difficult piece ofwriting, he must detach himselffrom his surroundings,
refuse to be beguiled by the view from his windows, by the sight of
the pictures in his room. For his difficult task he must live in the
world his pen is describing, enter a subjective state, become detached,
also, from the memory of concrete facts in his past life. This applies
to a considerable degree to the discarnate being who directly com-
municates through the medium. But, before he takes control of the
medium, before he enters the subjective state, he may prepare his
message, may draw up certain facts concerning his past earth life,
which he can then give through the medium, though he may be
unable, while communicating, to give evidential facts which are not
contained in his message.-F. W. H. M.
128
XXII
HAPPINESS
FOR THE AVERAGE MAN AND WOMAN
IN discussing happiness it is necessary to have a sense of
proportion and to classify human beings. The life that
brings true and permanent joy to one will bring only
discontent and positive distress to another.
Learned men have endeavoured to declare hard-and-fast
principles of happiness and in so doing have worked on a
false premise. Infinite is the variety of human nature. You
cannot say to any class, nation, man or race, "Follow the
principles I have imparted to you and you will discover
happiness." The individual or nation in question may not
be in asufficientlydeveloped state physically,mentally,and
spiritually to be capable ofapplying such principles to their
daily life, or, if they are capable, the principles may be so
framed that the promised happiness resolves itself into
boredom or acute disillusionment.
For instance, the Christian and Buddhist ascetics and
mystics are in accord as to the road to happiness. They will
assure you that no true happiness can be derived from the
use of the senses, neither can it be obtained by money or
by power and authority over others. They recommend
complete renunciation, scorn of wealth, power, beauty, in
whatsoever way it expresses itself. They claim that true
happiness can be found only in contemplation, in com-
munion with God-in contempt of all those works of God
which please the senses or satisfy natural desires.
I am afraid their views are open to many and serious
objections. For the mystic, perhaps, this inner life con-
~~ I
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
stitutes the only real happiness. But ninety men out of a
hundred are not mystics, they belong to a general pattern
and are constitutionally incapable of putting such recom-
mendations into practice, or, if they attempt to do so, they
merely warp, limit, and embitter their natures.
True happiness for the average man is to be found in
such words as moderation, self-control, and freedom. He
must first learn to control himself, and, that power once
acquired, he must learn to control people and situations
wisely. Thus he wins his freedom. Secondly, Tom Jones
has to gain some knowledge of his own unimportance in
the prevailing scheme of things. Thirdly, he should culti-
vate any special creative power he may possess.
Now, his control ofhimselfgivesto him acertainserenity,
so that daily worries and misfortunes fail to penetrate, fail
to upset his calm. His power to control other people will
save him from physical distress, from destitution, and will
enable him to defeat any persons who may, in various
emotional ways, endeavour to turn his life into a hell.
His sense of his own unimportance will, in itself, bring
happiness by leading him naturally to throw himself into
other people's lives, so that "self" can be temporarily for-
gotten and a lively sympathyextended where it is genuinely
needed.
Now, the creative instinct is an essential part of a man's
nature. Its wise expression should be one of his principal
preoccupations. It springs, partly, from the sex urge, but
often offers the greatest happiness in activities quite apart
from sex. Whatever a man's sex life, he would be wise
if he sought in some way or other for an outlet for the
creative principle. If he has not a constructive mind or
imagination he can express it merely in the enjoyment of
beauty in some form or other, in a wise but controlled
indulgence of his senses. But happy is the man with self-
control as well as real creative power, however humble
may be the medium of its expression.
130
HAPPINESS
Usually, the ascetic who recommends you to scorn
money has no anxieties on that score. Either his friends or
admirers supply him with all he needs or he has an excel-
lent income of his own.
I therefore strongly advise the seeker of happiness to
have a due appreciation of money. Without it he must
starve or experience such physical discomfort, such ill-
health, that he is unable to keep the light of his intelligence
or soul bright within its temple. He is no longer free
because, hourly, the clamorous needs of the body besiege
him, and if he is employed for long hours at a small wage
he has no time or physical strength for the cultivation of
his own nature or for the enjoyment he can give to others
through its fruition.
A desire for money in moderation is a virtue, for it
happens to be a desire to become a complete man, and,
through such completion and its resultant content, to
benefit others.
Happiness comes through effort; through a wise and
controlled indulgence in the pleasures of the senses;
through athletic activities for the perfecting of the body;
through study for the development of the mind; and
through toleration or a charitable outlook. The develop-
ment of these leads to the cultivation of the spirit.
True happiness will be found by the average man in
the constant and wise use of all his talents, all his powers
-of body, senses, mind, and spiritual perception.
Lastly, in wisdom will the modern human being find
the secret of life and the secret of serenity. Faith,hope,and
charity-all these virtues commended by St. Paul-are
contained within this lofty word and all are made lovely
by its radiance. For faith, hope, and charity without
wisdom are without light, and things that are hidden in
darkness may not attain to healthy growth.
[Unfinished, owing to illness of G. C.]
131
XXIII
GOD IS GREATER THAN LOVE
IT is strange to me that God should be described as
loving and good, or as jealous and vengeful. He is none
of these. He is the inevitable, the "Omega" of all life.
But He is neither evil nor good, neither cruel nor kind.
He is the Purpose behind all purpose. He neither loves
nor hates, there is no thought created that expresses Him,
for He would seem to me to be all creation and yet apart
from it. He is the Idea behind the myriad worlds, behind
the unnumbered Universes.
When we speak of love and hate we think in human
terms. Perhaps we picture to ourselves the beautiful love
of a mother for her son; we think of a man who loves his
wife devotedly; we think of heroic deeds performed for
the sake of love. Then we visualise hatred-our loathing
of some individual who has tricked us, deceived us, or
committed some rather evil crime.
Now, neither human love nor human hate even at their
highest can be regarded as qualities possessed by God.
For in all love as we know it there is some taint, some
streak of desire. Therefore love is not of a purity which
we can associate with God. And even the noblest hatred
has in it some soil, so that we blaspheme if we couple it
with the Name of God.
There is, in short, no phrase that we can apply to God
in this connection. We might say, "He is infinite com-
passion, infinite tenderness"; but he is not the "loving
Father" as described by the prayer-book. He is something
loftier and grander. "A loving Father"-in the sense the
world uses the word-loves only his own. In a war, for
132
GOD IS GREATER THAN LOVE
instance, the English will claim God's love as their par-
ticular property, the Germans will claim it as theirs.
Always man uses the term "love" when he wishes to
imply that it is a devotion for certain selected persons or
selected things. He may mechanically say that God loves
everything He has created, but he is utterly unable to
understand such a condition of mind, so this phrase is
meaningless from his point of view. I would not cheapen
the idea of the Creator by calling Him a God of love. For,
inevitably, I should be limiting our conception of God; I
should reduce Him to human terms; I would, in short,
make a man of Him.
No, God does not love. For love is ahumanvirtuethatis
like a flame, that leaps up and down, that at one moment
in life may be a glory; but when there are many moments
the glory cannot be maintained, and love becomes, even
with the best of men and women, tainted by irritability, by
some peevishness, or by some selfish melancholy.
God does not change. His fatherhood and motherhood
of the Universe never falter, never fail. If He were love,
then the marvellous creation of the life you know would
never have continued so perfectly. It would have been
subject to the changeable character of that thing you call
love. At times there might have been cessation of growth
-great harvests destroyed, vast tracts of country laid
waste because the heavens did not continue to gather
moisture. Tides might have spread themselves over half
the visible earth, mountains leaped from their rocky
seats, many millions of living creatures suddenly perish-
ing. I tell you that if God possessed love, as man under-
stands and knows it, the history of the world would have
been wholly changed, changed rather for evil than for
good. God is greater than love. That is the phrase you
should utter.
I know that our Master, Christ, preached to the Jews,
saying "God is love." And to Christ God was love. For
133
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
Christ set no human meaning to the term as has been the
way with every soul who has walked upon this earth since
the world began. The claim that Jesus was the Son of
God is based upon the fact that He was the one unique
Son of Man who knew the mystery of God, who, in saying
"God is love," alone of all men understood what He
meant by that phrase.
All sons and daughters of Adam, when they declare
that "God is love," mean by it love in the human sense:
for it is all that they understand and know. So I would
counsel finite minds to endeavour to image the Deity in
the phrase, "God is greater than love."
134
PART III
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
BETWEEN MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD
AND MISS GERALDINE CUMMINS
Arranged by E. B. GIBBES
"Every case is a nerJJ stone in the edifice
the dead are building for the living-out
of the shad()'IJ)s as they believe them to be
-beyond the grave." (Myers's scn"pt.)
CROSS-REFERENCES BETWEEN MRS. OSBORNE
LEONARD AND MISS GERALDINE CUMMINS
FREDERIC MYERS first purported to speak in my presence
in November 1924. Miss Cummins and I had been
invited to tea with an elderly couple-Captain and
Mrs. R.-who had been interested in psychic matters for
many years. During this time they claimed to have re-
ceived numbers of messages from the dead by means of
an improvised "ouija board." They were anxious to see
what results would be obtained from Miss Cummins's
association with them.
Miss Cummins and Captain R. sat on opposite sides of
a small table on which the letters of the alphabet had been
arranged in a circle, their hands resting on a piece of
glass. After a few moments the glass began to move,
spelling out, letter by letter, "Frederic Myers. You are
investigators. Do you know my friends?"
E. B. G. (recordt'ng). Which friends? We know of you,
of course.
F. M. Barrett.
G. D. C. You mean Sir William Barrett?
F. M. Yes. Also Balfour. I want to make it clear to you
that the time is ripe for our communication with the
earth....
This entity then expressed his desire to speak through
two or three mediums in an endeavour to put through
what is called "cross-correspondence."1 He then de:.
parted, that is to say, the movement of the glass ceased.
1 i.e. the giving ofsome piece of evidence through one medium and
following it with a further reference through another.
137
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
The name "Frederic Myers" came as a complete sur-
prise. We had not thought of endeavouring to get into
touch with him, and, as stated elsewhere, had no personal
interest in him. In fact, we were expecting friends of
the Rs. to communicate; and they were not a little dis-
appointed at this unexpected conversation, Myers being
a stranger to them also.
Thinking it might be of interest to follow up the lead
given us by Myers and to trace whether or no his first
appearance was merely the invention of that unknown
quantity "the subconscious mind," I decided to ask Miss
Cummins's control "Astor" to find him and to await
results.
A week later, therefore, at one of our usual sittings for
automatic writing in my own flat, Myers again purported
to speak to us. My comments are in parentheses.
F. M. May I talk, please?
(E. B. G. Are you Frederic Myers?)
F. M. That is the name I was known by.
(E. B. G. Please excuse our asking for you.)
F. M. Not at all. I am interested by the new shape of
the flame.1
(E. B. G. We wanted to know if you really spoke to us
at the flat of the old people the other day?)
F. M. I tried to speak through the old man but it was
very confusing. Someone else was trying to talk too....
Anyway, I tried to get through my message in spite of him
and other influences.
I referred to the possibility of the intervention of the
subconscious mind, stating that allowance had to be made
for this when investigating psychic phenomena.
1 This refers to the automatist's psychic "light." An explanation of
this light (which, it is affirmed by unseen communicators, surrounds
all those gifted with supernormal powers) was subsequently given by
Myers. See Appendix II (p. x8o).
138
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
The alleged Myers then gave the explanation of the
manner in which the inner mind of the medium is im-
pressed from the Unseen. (See Introduction, page 23.)
During this writing it occurred to me that, from a point
of view of evidence, it would be of interest if the soi-disant
Myers could give a message through Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, to whom I was shortly going for a sitting. I put
this suggestion to him, refraining, however, from mention-
ing the actual date of my appointment. It should be
explained that, in this form of communication between the
two worlds, the "sitter" makes his or her comments aloud
and the reply is quickly written down by the automatist.
Myers at once replied that he would think of something,
adding that he was "only too pleased to speak," and con-
tinuing, "You know before I died I was quite sure we
survived death. But the public never learnt that from me.
I am telling you of it because I want to encourage you
to go on in the belief that we are speaking. It is the ab-
sence of the belief that helps to makeabarrier betweenus.''
At a later sitting I suggested that he should give us some
message which he would endeavour to put through Feda,
Mrs. Leonard's control. He replied: "Yes. I will try to
do that. I am most happy to have met you."
The above form of conversation may sound common-
place and mundane. But, after all, if personality persists
after death and death means merely parting from the
physical garment we call the body, these conversations are
perfectly natural.
Before recounting the cross-references between Mrs.
Leonard and Miss Cummins, it may be of interest to re-
cord a further explanation of the reason Myers gave for
appearing so unexpectedly at the flat of Captain and
Mrs. R. In answer to a question on this point, he replied:
"We feel that the present time is ripe for communica-
tion. We feel that efforts are being made in various quarters
139
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
on earth to understand us. So we are determined to seize
the opportunity to break through and convince human
beings of our entire individuality, of the indestructibility
of our personality. I was, in consequence, looking for the
signal which to me always means that some human being
is endeavouring to speak to us. On the occasion of our
first meeting the signal came to me most clearly. I was,
therefore, a little disappointed at the difficulties of com-
munication. There were others who were anxious to
speak, so it was difficult to send a message that was in any .
way adequate that evening. . . . We are summoned in
two ways--one, by a strong desirefrom asitter. Nowdesire
has a certain force of which you, who are in the flesh, can
have no conception. It has a drawing quality, it acts like
a peremptory summons. We usually respond eagerly. In
the second case there is no desire on the part of the
medium or sitters, but there is a strong desire on our side.
I felt I must find new mediums. I had been wishing to
find them for some time. The two mediums, when they
sat that night, had a rather bright psychic light. It was
possible for me .to perceive it, and though there was no
link between us I came to you and spoke. It was a little
adventurous perhaps, but I have presented myself at
sittings in that way before...."
It is necessary to state emphatically that Mrs. Osborne
Leonard and Miss Cummins have not, to this day, met
each other. Neither have they corresponded with each
other. All idea, therefore, ofany conscious communication
between these two individuals must be definitely ruled out.
Neither had I any contact with Mrs. Leonard other than
at the sittings.
In connection with the following it is necessary to relate
that a large meeting of the Society for Psychical Research
had been held on Friday, December 12th, 1924. At this
meeting the late Lord Balfour had spoken, giving his
140
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
views on the telepathic experiments which had been
carried out by Professor Gilbert Murray and others.
Miss Cummins and I were present and the newspapers
recorded details described at the meeting.
On Sunday, DecembeF 14th, Miss Cummins sat for
automatic writing at my flat. The following is an extract
from the script.
Astor is here. Am I called to speak?
(E. B. G. Will you please ask Frederic Myers to speak
to us?)
Astor. Yes, if you will wait. (Pause.)
F. M. I was told you wished to meet me again.
.(E. B. G. You said you might like to give us a message
and then endeavour to send it through Feda.)
F. M. Most certainly.... I should like to try. Feda
might be able to receive a message, or do you think a part
of a sentence would be better?
(E. B. G. You probably know best.)
F. M. It is harder to put through half a sentence than
an idea or an image. I will give you two subjects. One had
better be something in connection with mediumship. I
will try to convey through her the idea that I am speaking
through this lady. . . . Would you like me to speak to
you about the ideas we have on our side? . . . First, let
me tell you that we are aware that Balfour has spoken at
last. You may imagine that it was his own idea. On the
contrary, he was most reluctant to speak. To the last he
had a certain feeling against it, but was impelled by some-
thing outside himself. That something was the desire of
the dead, of Gurney and myself.1 I will try to convey this
1 This remark must not be taken as meaning that Lord Balfour had
hitherto reserved his opinion in connection with psychical research.
Lord Balfour had been President of the Society and had never, in any
way, concealed his great interest in the subject, although he had been
too much occupied in other ways to do active work. The allusion un-
doubtedly refers to the fact of his having been occupied with other
141
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
impression to Feda. It is difficult, and if I fail you must
understand that it is neither Feda's fault nor mine. It may
be impossible if others are anxious to speak. I would like
to make one request ofyou. The day~r two days-before
you go to Feda, think strongly of the fact that I have
written through this lady. Think of me, Frederic Myers,
by name, visualise it, think also-Myers has written that
Balfour has at last spoken and that he was reluctant to
speak but impelled by us to do so. You will probably
reply, "Then this will be a case oftelepathy." Certainly
not, in the sense oftelepathy from you to Feda. What such
concentration on your part will do is this: it will generate
a certain thought-force which will draw me·to your sitting
and give me the necessary power which will enable me to
make myself and my message known to Feda;
You understand that I am not connected with you by
any ties, so it is necessary for me to have some kind of
magnet to draw me there.
(E. B. G. You may meet N., a friend, who speaks to
me from your side at that sitting.)
F. M. I shall be pleased to meet her. It will depend on
the grossness or fineness or the particles that make up
her soul-body whether I can speak with her.
affairs and, therefore, unable to speak on the subject. It must be men-
tioned that a member of the Council of the S.P.R. states that, in
reference to the meeting of the Society referred to above, Lord Balfour
spoke mainly at his suggestion. It is quite possible, however, that Lord
Balfour was "reluctant to speak" and that he had a "certain feeling
against it," but was impelled by some unseen influence to fall in with
the suggestion made to him by the member of the Society already
alluded to. The interest in the statement lies chiefly in the fact that
through Mrs. Leonard the communicating entity corroborstes his
remarks on this point written through Miss Cummins and makes a
direct allusion to the S.P.R.meeting (page 145), stating that he (Myers)
was there "and where friends of his were too, people that he has been
definitely helping and impressing." If the alleged Myers picked up
my own trivial little feeling of annoyance to which reference is made
on page 147, it is quite possible that he also gathered the condition of
the mind of Lord Balfour at the moment of speaking.
142
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
(E. B. G. Near the end of the sitting, if Feda says
nothing, shall I ask her to look for someone else?)
F. M. Yes, please, that would help. It is difficult to
break new ground. If I once spoke-while you were
present-to her, I have no doubt that it would be easier.
We throw out threads ofthought upon which we can travel
again to the medium. (Note. Here I explained that the
automatist and I had both been at the meeting at which
Lord Balfour had spoken on the subject of telepathy, and
that an account of it had been published in the papers.
I suggested that such a subject, therefore, might not be
considered wise for cross-references.) I understand. Then
I had better think of an image of another kind. You can
still retain the initial statement that I have written through
this lady. I will tell her that I intended before I died to
write a book expressing my conviction that survival of the
dead had been proved. That book was never written by
me, but I had a considerable amount of evidence col-
lected, which, to my mind, proved the case for survival
once and for all. I will ask you therefore to be so good as
to think of this statement of mine two days or a day before
you go to Feda. Kindly rub out of your memory the
proposition about Balfour. Place in its stead the fact that
Frederic Myers before his death intended to write a book
expressing his convictions that the survival of the dead
was proved beyond a doubt once and for all. I doubfif
anv knew of this intention of mine. Nevertheless, this was
the case.1 Do you desire me to write a brief statement of
the two things I intend to communicate to Feda?
(E. B. G. Yes, please.)
1 Mrs. Salter, ofthe Society for Psychical Research, commenting on
the above, writes: "His book, Human Personality, which contains the
record of his own personal convictions concerning survival of death
and the possibility of communication with the dead, was published
only after his death, though he had collected all the material for it
himself." Both Miss Cummins and I were unaware of this.
143
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
F. M. Firstly, Frederic Myers has written through this
lady. Secondly, Frederic Myers, before his death, intended
to write a book expressing his conviction that the survival
of the dead had been proved conclusively. You now have
my statement and my name. It will depend on conditions,
on your psychic power, on the power of the medium con-
trolled by Feda, whether I succeed or fail.... Kindly
image my two remarks as you fall asleep to-night. I am
obliged to you for this opportunity of experimenting from
this side among the living.
The early part of my sitting with Mrs. Leonard on the
following day had been devoted to my customary com-
municators. As I felt the sitting might soon be drawing to
aclose and therehad beennomentionofMyers, I suggested
to Feda that she should look round and see if anyone else
desired to speak to me. Feda made brief references to
others whom I could not place. Mindful of the suggestion
that, if nothing transpired, I should try to help matters
out a little, I told Feda that I was thinking of someone,
"a man--a rather important person." It will be noted that
I did not indicate the age of the communicator for whom
I wished her to look, or to what particular importance I
referred.
She then began as follows:-
[Extract from sitting with Mrs. Osborne Leonard,1
Monday morning, 15th December, 1924. The italics
denote correct statements.]
Feda. It's not Mr. T., but someone quite different....
There is a man here but he is not a young man, rather an
1 It must be remembered that Mrs. Leonard's form of mediumship
is quite unlike that of Miss Cummins. Mrs. Leonard goes into a
trance and is controlled by another entity calling herself "Feda."
While she is in this state "Feda" takes the messages or translates the
entire conversation given by the communicator (in this case Myers)
by using the person of the medium.
I#
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
elderly man. I can't see him yet, but I know he is here. He
has been here before. And not only here, he has tried to
get through somewhere else. He has been somewhere else. I
feel as if he is a man rather interested in this subject. I feel
I ought to know him very well. I get the feeling of someone
who has travelled. When he was on earth he went about
and saw people and things. He passed over rather quickly.
I can always get the feeling whether they went over quickly
or not. I can't see him. I wish I could get his name.
(E. B. G. Perhaps he can come a little nearer.)
Feda. He istrying to. Didhe do writing?-1get afeeling
ofwriung-not very important writing that people would
think a lot of. He did two kinds of wriung,like two different
subjects almost. He wrote in two quite different ways. M.
I am seeing a big M. Was he fond of poetry too? I am
seeing the big M still, though I can't see just what he is
pushing out to me. Oh, now I see lots of poetry. Do you
know, he is not showing me very new poetry-he seems to
have been rather clever in understanding old poets-classics,
Virgilparticularly. Made rather a study ofhim. He is keep-
ing an appointment with you.
(E. B. G. Excellent!)
Feda. Isn't it funny he can't show himself? You have
been somewhere lately he was interested in, and where he
was too at the time, and where friends of his were too, people
that he has been definitely helping and impressing.
(E. B. G. Yes, very good.)
Feda. The place was full of those gone over-those
progressed on the other side and those still doing good
here. L. was there.
(E. B. G. Who?)
Feda. Oh, yes, you know L. that this man on the other
side was interested in too.
(E. B. G. I know. Quite right.l)
Feda. Wait a minute, I can't get that. There seemed to
1 Presumably Sir Oliver Lodge. He was present at the meeting.
145 K
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
be more than one person there-! get a lot, and one, two,
three days. Were you doing something, three days ago, that
had to do with him?
(E. B. G. Yes, indirectly.)
Feda. I get the feeling of three days ago.
(E. B. G. Yes, three days ago.)
Feda. You put yourself not exactly in touch with him
but in conditions he would be interested in. I cannot quite
get it. He is what? He has been very interested in things that
have been happening lately which you would know about.
He has been interested in you personally-only lately. He
has been brought in touch with you and just came t'n to-day
so that you won't think you were m-istaken.
(E. B. G. Thank him very much.)
Feda. Fred! I keep getting Fred. It's something to do
with Mr. Fred-the clever one who knows Sir Oliver.
That t's the one you had the asst'gnatt'on with to-day. It must
be lately to do with you. I get the feelt'ng it's sometht'ng just
happened.
(E. B. G. That's right-it is only lately.)
Feda. I feel as ifyou leant over to him through somebody,
and he is pleased about it. It is not just something that is
done and finished with but something that will go on.
(E. B. G. I hope it will.)
Feda. It was just as well for Feda to get a few facts
about him before knowing his name, so that it would make
it more clear that Feda did not just jump at him. That's
why he was anxious to get in about Virgil. He says he is
doing all he can to build up evidence to help the science,
if I may call it so, of telepathy, both on your plane and
from our plane to yours. He feels he t'sgoing to come through
again t'n a tht'rd place.1 •••
(E. B. G. Does he remember how he talked to me, in
making the assignation?)
Feda. He does remember, but is a bit afraid he will not
1 This also transpired.
146
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS;.REFERENCES
be able to say it now. He says that we must be very careful
not to say anything after the sitting-he will probably be
able to get through another time. . . . He is very busy
on the other side and he is always thinking out new ideas
in proving he is in communication with the earth, and was
very glad of the opportunity you gave ht"m. Wait a bit--oh
dear, not yesterday; that was Sunday. (Pause.) You spoke
to mm lately' yesterday.
(E. B. G. Admirable.)
Feda. Also on FrUlay there was thi.s t"ndt"rect connection
whi,ch you could not qut"te link up with yesterday, and yet in
a sense all was done through you.
(E. B. G. That's quite right.)
Feda. He says at the time you di.dn't know he was there
on Friday, and, well, he laughed and says, "you ought to
have thought so, for t"t i.s my happy huntmg ground."
(E. B. G. [laughing]. Yes, I see.)
Feda. Why were you irritated? He says you were very
interested but there was something he felt in you-zohy
di,d you feel suddenly irritated about someone?
(E. B. G. I don't quite remember.)
Feda. He says you had good reason, it was not being
irritated without any reason.
(E. B. G. I was irritated about somebody?)
Feda. As if somebody was rubbing your nerves up a bit.
(E. B. G. Only just on Friday?)
Feda. He felt it on Friday because he was with you• ••.
The sitting ended soon after this and no further
allusion was made to Myers. This extract contains many
cross-references between Mrs. Leonard and Miss Cum-
mins. Feda describes an elderly man who has spoken to
· me elsewhere, a man interested in thi.s subject. The letter M.
That he was keept"ng an appointment with me. She then
passes on to what we had decided to "rub out" of my
memory as being unsuitable for cross-references, i.e. any
147
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
allusion to the meeting of the S.P.R. She says: You
have been somewhere lately he was interested in, where he
was too at the time and where friends ofhis were also, people
that he has been definitely helping and impressing. . . . Was
I doing sometht'ng concerning him three days previously? ...
Not exactly t'n touch with him but in conditions he would be
t'nterested in? He has been very interested in things that have
been happening lately which I would know about. He has
been interested in me, personally, only lately and just came
in to-day so that I should not think I was mistaken. . . .
The name Fred. The one I had the assignation with ,to-day.
She feels as ifI leant over to him through someone. I spoke to
him lately, yesterday. On Friday there was this indirect
connection with me which I could not quite lt'nk up with
yesterday.
Also, Feda's remark that he "was very glad of the
opportunity you gave him" had been similarly expressed
through Miss Cummins on the previous evening {p. 144).
"Leaning over to him through someone" exactly
describes my attitude when reading over the automatic
script as it comes through Miss Cummins, and conveys
"the idea" that Myers was speaking through her. It is
noticeable that the communicator does not attempt to
give the name or the initials of the automatist. Had he
endeavoured to do this, Feda might have jumped to the
conclusion that he referred to Miss Cummins, for she
(Feda) had spoken of her to me at previous sittings and
I had informed Myers of this fact at the last sitting for
automatic writing. No difficulty should have been ex-
perienced in alluding by name to Miss Cummins, had the
communicator desired to do so. The manner in which he
indicated the latter denoted a communicator versed in
psychical research. If he had at once conveyed to Feda
Miss Cummins's name or initials, or in any way connected
her with writing, not only would he have given something
away, but telepathy or thought-transference from me to
148
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
Mrs. Leonard might be claimed as an explanation. More-
over, he deliberately referred to the S.P.R. meeting,
which I had, as arranged, "rubbed from my mind." At
the same time, by adding the sentence that we "could not
quite link up with yesterday," he seemed to indicate that
he appreciated the fact that the proposition to put through
a reference to the meeting had been cancelled, and that
thereby it was not one of the two statements upon which
I had been instructed to concentrate. In spite of this it
may be held that Mrs. Leonard merely read my mind and
interpreted it as described; that she was also aware of the
S.P.R. meeting. It will be noted, however, that until I
suggested to Feda that she should look for another com-
municator, she (or Mrs. Leonard) apparently received no
impression whatsoever from me concerning details which
would have been uppermost in my thoughts at the time.
Be this as it may, Feda makes one allusion which appears
difficult to attribute to telepathy or to any similar theory.
I refer to her sudden reference to my being irritated when
at the meeting. "Why did you feel suddenly irritated about
someone? • . . you had good reason . . . as if some-
body was rubbing your nerves up . . . he felt it on Fri-
day."
Now, there is no conceivable means by which Mrs.
Leonard could have, normally, acquired this information.
Yet the allusion is astonishingly accurate. I had been
extremely vexed at finding myself seated next to a friend
-a Mrs. F.-whose attitude towards psychical research
has always rather annoyed me. Feda distinctly points out
that the irritation was caused by an individual and not by
an event; that I had good cause to be irritated and that it
occurred at that particular meeting of the S.P.R. Had
Myers really been present at this meeting and conscious
of my feelings he would certainly consider that I had good
cause to be irritated. Mrs. F.'s attitude towards psychic
phenomena was of a somewhat superficial and stupid
149
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
character, and, to a serious student like Myers, would
appear extremely tiresome.
It is difficult to see how this trivial little fact could have
been conveyed to Mrs. Leonard except by the unseen
entity who claimed to have observed my unconscious
irritation. It may be postulated, however, that the memory
ofthe annoyance was registered in my subconscious mind,
and that Mrs. Leonard merely sensed my latent feelings
inthe matter. Frommy remarks recordedat the time, it will
be seen thatI had no recollection ofthis feelingof irritation
and was completely mystified by Feda's allusion to it.
Only one of the two statements which Myers had
arranged through Miss Cummins, to mention to Feda,
reached me, and that in a manner which I was not at all
anticipating. If the enumeration of all these details is
explained by thought-transference (including the very one
to which it was decided that no allusion should be made),
why did Mrs. Leonard fail to select the other statement
concerning the book? It was, obviously, one of the two
prominent ideas in my mind.
It would seem that Myers deliberately endeavoured to
refer to a matter which we had mutually arranged to avoid.
This again suggests an intelligence accustomed to the
investigation of psychic phenomena from the earth side.
Moreover, it will be seen that Myers makes a spontaneous
admission to this effectthrough Miss Cummins (page 153).
We must also recognise the manner in which Myers
first endeavoured to disclose his identity at the Leonard
sitting.1 Among other things he indicated that he wrote
on two different subjects, and that he was connected with
poetry and the classics.
I was aware that Myers had communicated to other
members of the S.P.R. through the same channel. But
that does not invalidate the evidence he gives concerning
me, personally, and my association with Miss Cummins.
1 See Appendix III, p. 183.
ISO
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
The next sitting for automatic writing with Miss Cum-
mins took place on December I']th, two days after the
Leonard sitting. On this occasion I decided to reverse
matters and to ask Myers, through her, what he had said
through Mrs. Leonard.
It must be clearly understood that I did not, in any
manner, discuss the matter with the automatist. She was
neither aware of the date of the Leonard sitting nor if the
experiment had proved successful. Any recollection that
she might have had concerning it would, as it happened,
have been almost completely obliterated from her mind.
During those few days she was entirely absorbed in
endeavouring to straighten out affairs of an exceedingly
worrying and personal character. In questioning Myers
through her, I endeavoured to avoid giving any hint
as to the success or otherwise of the suggested cross-
references.
The sitting opened in the usual way, Astor announcing
at once that Frederic Myers was near.
F. M. I must apologise for having in a sense failed.
(E. B. G. In what way?)
F. M. You made a request and I tried to carry it out.
But conditions were curious and I fear you will have
nothing to report in the matter.
(E. B. G. Were you not able to come?)
F. M. Yes, I tried to make myself apprehended and
endeavoured to catch the attention of the control. But
~cfo~(j~~~--~~~~·~X~~w~;rl~~*;::e
~issage.·'sile--made~eimft~~-erWkts-~=a'"'reiiiatt&''outI
found it hard to keep up. My perceptions when adjusted
to earth are not rapid in their working.... The noise
of so many thoughts made it seem- as if I were in a
factory with machinery buzzing loudly about me. I felt
that only by great concentration could my thoughts get
15i
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
through.. So many were thinking near me, though Feda
·only chose from the crowd two or three others.
(E. B. G. I think you were very successful.)
F. M. Good, you surprise meI I felt sure a part of my
statement had not been taken in, but I tried hard enough.
(E. B. G. Do you remember at all what you said?)
F. M. I believe I got through the initial statement that
I had spoken through this·lady. I also tried to make it
clear about the book. I think the fact of a book seemed to
be conveyed, but I feared that exactitude was lacking-
the fact that it would express the belief that survival was
once and for all proved.
(E. B. G. She was not quite clear about that.)
F. M. That was the important point. You must under-
stand that I had never been really emphatic and definite
with regard to survival when I wrote my previous books.
. • . I wa~ interested and struck by the strange struggle
for speech with the earth on the part of so many, but of
course it led to my not getting through the most important
point-my emphatic belief in survival while I was on
earth....
In connection with the above, the following remarks
sho~ld be noted.
Myers at once wrote that he had "in a sense failed."
This was correct if definite allusion to the two state-
ments was indicated. Moreover, he infers at once that
he did succeed in making his presence felt,· that he tried
to carry out my request and that "conditions were
curious." Though I had given no hint to Miss Cummins
that Myers had purported to speak through Mrs. Leonard,
in answer to my question, he replies at once in the
affirmative. He says he "endeavoured to catch the attention
of the control." The reader will realise the accuracy of this
statement if he refers to the commencement of the
Leonard sitting and to my remarks leading up to it. It is
I 52
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
true that Feda did not at first grasp who was giving evidence,
and, from the verbatim record, it seemed obvious that he
had difficulty in catching her attention. Through Miss
Cummins (who certainly in those days knew nothing of a
Leonard sitting) he mentions the noise of the many
thoughts around, and it is quite correct that there seemed to
be several others hovering near Feda at the time. It is further
correct that Feda only chose two or three of them. Through
Miss Cummins, Myers correctly affirms that he "felt sure
a part of my statement had not been taken in." In answer
to my question as to what he said through Feda, he at once
replies that he believes he got through the very statement
which Feda most distinctly implied, i.e. that he "had
spoken through this lady." He immediately follows this with
the comment that the fact of a book seemed to be conveyed
but that hefears "exactitude was lacking." This assumption
appears correct, for Feda certainly referred to two kinds
of writing. But the direct statement concerning his book
connected with his belief in survival is not indicated,
though Feda makes an indirect allusion to a man "rather
interested in this subject."
At the conclusion of the remarks reproduced above I
hinted that it would be inadvisable for me to say much in
reply on account of giving away information to the mind
of the automatist. Myers spontaneously continued:
F. M. Yes, I understand. I tried to say something about
Balfour in spite ofyour criticism of such a subject, but there,
again, I found it hard with the buzzing.
Now, it will be recollected that the impression left in the
mind of the automatist would have been that no attempt
was to be made to refer to Lord Balfour or to the meeting.
Yet this remark corroborates the statement made through
Mrs. Leonard, if by "people that he has been definitely
helping and impressing" Feda was endeavouring to inter-
pret Myers's message in that connection.
153
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
It is possible that the buzzing to which Myers refers
accounts for his failure to make the allusion clearer. The
remarkable fact remains, however, that practically every
observation made by Feda was accurate and relevant.
In the light of the foregoing automatic script received
through Miss Cummins, it is important to note that the
typescript of the Leonard record was not, at that time, in
my possession. I parted at King's Cross from the stenog-
rapher I took with me. Her notes were all in shorthand,and
three or four days elapsed between the Leonard sitting
and my receipt of the verbatim typescript of it. Anyone
who has sat with Mrs. Leonard realises that it is exceed-
ingly difficult to retain in one's conscious mind much of
the conversation that transpires, without even a few rough
notes to which to refer. It was, therefore, only on receipt
of the complete transcription that I realised the many
important corroborations and cross-references which
occurred in connection with these two psychics. Incident-
ally, the contrast in the two forms of mediumship is not
without interest. For it illustrates some of the difficulties
experienced bycommunicatorsinestablishingtheiridentity
through two different channels.
Replying to some queries from me concerning Myers's
preliminary remarks through Mrs. Leonard, Mrs. Salter,
the hon. editor of the Journal of the S.P.R., wrote as
follows:-
"(a) Myers certainly travelled a good deal. To my
knowledge he had been in various parts of Europe and
several times to America. He may have travelled elsewhere
also, I cannot say. (b) He had been very seriously ill for
some time before his death, but the end came rather sooner
than was expected. The immediate cause of death was
heart failure. (c) He wrote at least two kinds of books,
poetry and prose. If you take the prose works alone you
might divide them into books on psychical research and
154
A RECORD OF SOME CROSS-REFERENCES
books on literature, ancient and modern. (d) I was only
a child when he died, but my impression is that he was
rather a highly strung, nervous man. I don't mean nervous
in the sense of shy, but quick and impatient, a man ofvery
strong feelings."
The last paragraph refers to a query from me regard-
ing a remark made by Myers in automatic writing.
Through Miss Cummins he had stated that he "used to
be a little quick in replying." This apparent fact had been
illustrated when, during the writing of the essay on
"Memory," he suddenly broke off, violently crossing out
a sentence and beginning again with, "Your words make it
impossible" (page Ioo). Other instances of a similar char-
acter occur in the writing of these essays.
It may be of interest to state that the title ofthis book
was also suggested by the alleged Myers.
The method of endeavouring to link up with the same
entity through Mrs. Leonard and Miss Cummins was
adopted on the occasion of my next two visits to the
former. These experiments were also attended with suc-
cessful results.
The material given is somewhat involved and exigencies
of space prevent their inclusion in this volume. The reader
is referred to Psychic Science (the Quarterly Transactions
of the British College of Psychic Science) for July I 93I ,
which contains a record of one of these experiments.
It should be mentioned that I have had no sittings with
Mrs. Osborne Leonard since 1925.
A short account dealing with the evolution of animals
and their survival is added to this volume as Appendix V.
This was communicated by Myers at an early date and
does not fit into the context of the book. Nevertheless, it
may be of interest to a considerable number of people.
ISS
SUMMARY
SUMMARY
A FEW further explanatory notes may be of interest.
In the first place, Miss Cummins is a perfectly normal
individual, capable of coping with any ups and downs in
life which may fall to her lot with complete equanimity.
There is no sign of hysteria or of neurasthenia, such as is
often erroneously attributed to those gifted with super-
normal powers. She is, indeed, far calmer and more self-
possessed in a crisis than are many people considered
extremely well balanced. She has not studied books on
theosophy or psychical research. She was an agnostic as
regards survival until, by weight of evidence, she was
forced to change her views. Even so, she had no definite
theories regarding the conditions which are stated to
prevail in the next life.
The communicator who claims to have dictated Parts
I and II of this book describes the state to which we pass
at death in a manner that certainly had not occurred to
Miss Cummins. Even if the matter written is held, by
some, to be merely the invention ofher subconscious mind,
it is, nevertheless, extremely arresting. It contains a
description of the Hereafter which would seem to be a
logical development of the conditions of earth life.
The book under discussion is composed in a manner
totally different from the style of the numerous other
entities who have endeavoured (intentionally or otherwise)
to demonstrate their survival through Miss Cummins.
Moreover, these writings are quite distinct from those of
the automatist's. F. W. H. M. speaks of some matters of
which he had already written when on earth, though this
fact was unknown to us at the time of writing. He intro-
duces words which, on .referring to Human Personality
at a later date, I found were used in that book. I refer to
159
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
"polyzoic," "polypsychic," "metetheric," "tel~:esthesia,"1
etc. Neither Miss Cummins nor I had any idea as to their
meaning nor had we any recollection of ever having seen
them in print. In addition to the fact that the communi-
cator gave several indications of his knowledge of the
investigation of psychicphenomena from this side, onsome
occasions he also wrote as though he were delivering a
lecture. In view of his position as classical lecturer at Cam-
bridge,thiswould,inallprobability,becharacteristicofhim.
It must be realised that in automatic or supernormal
writing there is no time for correction and re-writing as is
possible for a living author when composing an essay. As
the alleged Myers has remarked, "These essays are hastily
written and must necessarily be crude owing to the
difficulties of communication and the difficulty of the
theme. I have, of course, no opportunity for studying
them. I am like a speaker who has only a few minutes
in which to utter his ideas. He may not retract any of the
words. Once spoken they belong to the world about him.
You will understand that, when discussing eternity, the
supernatural lecturer is at a considerable disadvantage,
and must, admittedly, make errors. Also, he is dependent
on the medium's or interpreter's mind." This fact should
be remembered when comparing the style of writing in
this short book with that of Myers's various works written
during his life on earth.
It may be claimed that these contain long sentences;
whereas, in some of the material written down by Miss
Cummins, the sentences are somewhat shorter. If this is
so, it must be remembered that in automatic writing the
words are joined together and the paragraphs are without
punctuation. Moreover, some of these writings are in the
form of simple, instructive conversation concerning the
1 The script in which this word occurs is not incorporated in this
volume. The essay on the Subliminal ~elf in which the above words
occur was written, together with other essays, before Miss Cummins
and I had read Human Personality.
x6o
SUMMARY
After-life, and are not in any way an attempt to enter into
an elaborate analysis of those conditions, such as, perhaps,
was his habit in life.
It is noticeable that there is a certain similarity in the
phraseology of Human Personality and in that of the
automatic writing under discussion. In her normal writing
Miss Cummins avoids all remarks in parenthesis and par-
ticularly dislikes the introduction ofthem into her writing.
It will be noted that in The Road to Immortality the paren-
thesis occasionally appears.
I can state emphatically that Miss Cummins has never
attempted to study any of the subjects with which this
book deals. She has written a few articles which were
published some years ago. But these concerned the theatre
and modem literature. She has written short stories and
the works referred to on page 19 of the Introduction. I
may add that, throughout the nine years that it has been
my privilege to be associated with her, Miss Cummins
has been absorbed (so far as her reading is concerned) in
the drama and in modern works of fiction.
Why, then, is it that, when she prepares herself for
automatic writing, she writes sometimes on metaphysics?
Moreover, such writing is always headed by the name of
an individual who claims to have once lived on earth, and
who tries to indicate in every possible way that he is merely
living on another plane?
As it may be urged that Miss Cummins might, while in
a state of self-induced hypnosis, extract knowledge from
my mind with which she could unconsciously build up
these essays, it is necessary to mention that I have no
training in metaphysics whatsoever.
Such remarks also apply to Miss Cummins's other
psychic books. I refer chiefly to her historical works, The
Scripts ofCleophas, Paul in Athens, and The Great Days of
Ephesus.1 These suggest an immortality of intelligence and
1 This volume is not yet published.
161 L
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
of memory that is truly remarkable. These volumes,
together with those still unpublished, form a vast history
of early Christianity. Some of the information contained
therein could not have come from the mind of the
writer, Miss Cummins, who has had no theological
training. It is not without interest to compare the style
of these writings with those of the alleged communicator
of The Road to Immortality. In so doing, it should be
remembered that the manner of their production is pre-
cisely the same.
It is not relevant to enter here into further details con-
cerning Miss Cummins's very extensive psychic works.
But when all are published it is probable that she will go
down to posterity as one of the finest tral\ce-writers in the
annals of psychical research. ·
In considering the description of the After-life, readers
will naturally attach importance to the credentials of the
alleged communicator. On what authority are we to
accept the information given? Does it come from a reliable
source? If the reader considers that Myers has proved his
case for survival and has found, in his "interpreter," the
clearest channel available for the expression of his views,
then it seems that reliability can be placed on the state-
ments made herein. In his life Myers was undoubtedly a
man of unimpeachable honesty and sincerity.
It is hardly conceivable that one individual can repro-
duce the characteristic manner of speech, peculiarities of
phraseology, and the actual idiosyncrasies of a number of
people whom she has never met in life. Yet this has been
the case as regards Miss Cummins. For when such
dramatisations of personality were studied by those claim-
ing to be their friends or relatives they were recognised by
them. This phenomenon cannot be explained by any of
the acknowledged theories connected with psychical
research. It may be claimed that telepathy or even latent
telepathy can account for a medium or "interpreter"
162
SUMMARY
obtaining knowledge of a fact unknown to him, but it
cannot explain the reproduction of personality.
As an illustration I quote a short resume of five cases
which may be taken as examples.
In the early days of our experiments the mother of a
friend ofmine purported to write through Miss Cummins.
I forwarded the sheets offoolscap to Mrs. L.,her daughter.
In discussing their contents a few days later, the latter
exclaimed in a bewildered voice: "But it is exactly like
the old lady; how does Miss Cummins know?" In this case
Mrs. L. had met Miss Cummins once, the latter had never
seen Mrs. L.'s mother and knew nothing about her. She
died a few months prior to the above episode. I, my-
self, had met the hypothetical communicator once only
twenty years previously, when she made no impression
upon me whatsoever, and I had no recollection of her
peculiarities.
On another occasion the name and address of a person
entirely unknown to anyone present were written by Miss
Cummins. The statement was made that this entity had
just died and that he knew his wife was grieving. There
was an insistent request that she should be traced and be
assured of the continued existence of her husband. I fol-
lowed up these remarks and eventually corresponded with
the widow at the address given in the automatic script. She
corroborated eight of the statements made as being
entirely correct, including a description of her husband's
personal appearance and the condition of his health for
some time prior to his death.
This man had lived in a town in the north of England,
the existence of which we were both unaware at the time
ofwriting. It is true thatwe might have heard of this town
and forgotten it, but that does not explain the fact that
Miss Cummins wrote the name and correct address of a
man unknown to her who had recently died there. The
following are the facts acknowledged by his widow. (I) Her
163
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
husband had recently died (five days afterwards his name
was written by Miss Cummins). (2) He was in the fifties
(his age was 55). (3) He was of medium height (correct).
(4) He was dark (correct). (5) He had retired from business,
that is, had not been fit for it for some time. ("He was
ailing for two years, but kept going to business. He was
not fit to go but would not give in.") (6) He was not ill
for very long. ("He died three days after the doctor was
called in.") (7) They were devoted to each other (correct).
(8) The widow would not believe in the survival of her
husband when informed of his message (correct). (9) That
he had a wife also proved correct.
Another caseconnected withMiss Cummins's automatic
writing concerned a young girl who died at the age of I 5.
Her mother was a friend of mine, but I had not seen the
child since she reached the age of five years. Through
Miss Cummins I was able to converse with what appeared
to be the personality of the little girl, who eventually gave
convincing proofs of her continued existence. Not only
did the mother, Mrs. B., recognise the signature and style
of writing as belonging to that of her dead daughter, but
the latterappeared tobeinconstanttouchwithhermother's
mind. On several occasions the child wrote through Miss
Cummins, giving details of what Mrs. B. had been doing,
thinking, and feeling. She indicated the place where her
mother spent the Christmas of 1924, and made other
statements which Mrs. B. pronounced to be correct.
These were entirely unknown to the automatist and to
myself at the time of writing. Miss Cummins had not had
any communication with Mrs. B., who, as a result of these
communications, became fully convinced of her daughter's
survival and confident that they would meet in a life to
come. In this case, six facts were written, which were
entirely unknown to either of us, and a great number of
statements were also made which were known to me but
unknown to the automatist.
164
SUMMARY
An even more remarkable example of the reproduction
of personality as well as of evidential matter is as
follows:-
The wife of a certain Mr. X. died. Through Miss
Cummins she purported to communicate, together with
her sister, Miss P., and a mutual friend of theirs, a Mr.
T. M. These writings (which extended to ten sittings)
gave evidence of the survival of their different person-
alities and intimate details of family affairs connected with
the husband and wife. When the communications were
sent to Mr. X., the husband, he decided that they should
be destroyed, considering it inadvisable that any mention
of such private matters should be found after his death.
Of these writings Mr. X. wrote: "Marvellous. The script
is the most wonderful thing I have ever read. The person-
ality of everyone is unmistakable. I have read and re-read
it many times." Again, Miss Cummins had never seen any
of these three communicators, yet she reproduced their
different characteristics, their style of speech and phrase-
ology, and references to familyfeuds and differences which
had occurred before she was born. Moreover, when the
writings purporting to emanate from the mutual friend,
Mr. T. M., were read over to his widow, she exclaimed
that the style was "exactly like him." In every possible
way she then expressed her belief that her husband
had been communicating through Miss Cummins.
In this case the widow ofT. M. and Mr. X. corrobor-
ated nineteen statements which were unknown to either
Miss Cummins orto me at the time ofwriting. Moreover,
we were not then acquainted with Mrs. T. M., or with
any member of her family.
With regard to the scripts purporting to be written by
Mrs. X. and her sister, Miss P., these also contained facts
which I was subsequently able to verify. In addition to
this, the number of characteristic phrases and curious
idiosyncrasies exhibited by these alleged communicators
r6s
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
which were recognised by Mr. X. and myself are almost
uncountable. These peculiarities could not have been
known consciously to the automatist and telepathy cannot
explain their reproduction by her. At some of the sittings
reference was made to the petty quarrels of the sisters in
theirearthlife. In this discussion they continued to express
views which were characteristic of them.
Another remarkable case connected with Miss Cum-
mins's automatism is published in theJournal ofthe Society
for Psychical Research for May 1929.1 In this instance it
concerned information given by Captain J. M., who had
been killed in the South Mrican War. He gave the correct
names of some of his brother officers who were killed at
the same time. Neither sitters nor medium had conscious
knowledge ofthese names nor ofthe details communicated
concerning them. Captain J. M. stated that one of these
officers told him of a "spree" which he missed when both
battalions met at the same station in India, relating a
certain scandal connected with two young subalterns
which occurred at this place.
These details were subsequently confirmed. The com-
municator did not accompany his regiment to India. The
two battalions met as described-a most unusual event-
and the "spree" was eventually verified by a man who was
there at the time as a junior subaltern. None of these facts
was known to the sitter. The incident which occurred
in 1898 could not have been mentioned anywhere in print.
The sitter did not meet or hear anything of her com-
municator after June 1897 until she read of his death in
South Mrica.
In 1898 Miss Cummins was a small child living in Ire-
land. She had no connection with the regiment in question.
Moreover, the communicator hinted at another matter
1 The following r6!um6 has been taken from the Journal by kind
permission of the Council of the S.P.R.
2 The term used in psychical research indicating the personto whom
the messages are addressed.
x66
SUMMARY
which he could relate but, when asked to do so, refused,
stating that the person concerned was still alive. It was
subsequently ascertained that a certain incident had also
occurred at the same time and that it concerned a man
still living.
It is not possible here to give further evidential
matter. But none of the recognised explanations-i.e.
telepathy, thought-transference, cryptresthesia or the sub-
conscious mind-can, it seems, account for the reproduc-
tion of the personalities mentioned in the foregoing notes.
Even in the last case given I understand that it was
characteristic of the communicator, Captain J. M., to
refuse to relate anything of a derogatory kind concerning
anyone he knew.
In these few cases alone over forty correct facts are
mentioned which could not have been obtained telepathic-
ally by Miss Cummins from anyone present when she
was writing down the information contained therein. In
addition to this, we have the problem of the reproduction
of the personalities of various people whom Miss Cum-
mins had never met. Of all those who have purported to
write through her in my presence, only one was known
to her personally. Six who were known to and recognised
by me were not acquainted with her in life, the remainder
were strangers to us both. All these exhibited different
peculiarities of character and often expressed views on
certain subjects which were at variance with those ex-
pressed by others.
What, then, is the explanation? Can all such phenomena
be attributed to the dramatisation of the subconscious
mind? Are they to be accounted for by telepathy or by
the hypothetical theory of cryptresthesia? It is true that
we have not considered the phenomenon of multiple per-
sonality; but it must be obvious that this theory does not
solve the problem. I contend that, so far as our present
researches into psychic phenomena have extended, none
167
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
of these theories explain the case. And I submit that the
spiritistic hypothesis, that we survive death, supplies the
only possible answer.
It seems that the two branches of psychic science-
physical phenomena and mental phenomena-should
definitely be separated. In so far as the mental side is
concerned (i.e. trance-speech, clairaudience and automatic
writing, bywhich means the survival of human personality
can sometimes be indicated) the word "medium" might,
with advantage, be dropped. Anothermore comprehensive
word could be substituted. As Myers says, "The medium
is not a medium, he is an interpreter. Please remember
that." _
It is of interest to note in Part III the reference to the
meeting of the Society for Psychical Research. Ifwe admit
that the surviving consciousness of Myers was speaking
through Mrs. Leonard and through Miss Cummins, is it
not the most natural thing in the world that he should
refer to this event in some way? As Feda remarked, it (the
S.P.R.) was "his happy hunting ground."
The records of supernormal phenomena issued by
that Society during the last fifty years are sufficient to
satisfy the most rigid sceptic that they present a strong
case for survival. One of the practices of the Society is to
amass, criticise, and analyse cases that are brought to its
notice, cases that cannot be described as other than super-
normal phenomena: and the reader is then left to form his
own conclusions. Among its Presidents are numbered the
following: The Right Hon. the Earl of Balfour, William
James, Sir William Crookes, F. W. H. Myers, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Sir William Barrett, Charles Richet,Andrew Lang,
and many others. All these have testified to the genuine
character of certain psychic phenomena, and Sir Oliver
Lodge, Sir William Crookes, Sir William Barrett, and
F. W. H. Myers have stated their conviction that survival
is a demonstrated fact. Such notable men as the famous
168
SUMMARY
Prime Minister the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, the
Poet Laureate Alfred Tennyson, John Ruskin, R. L.
Stevenson, G. F. Watts, Lord Leighton, also Lord
Rayleigh, Sir Archibald Geikie, Sir J. J. Thomson (past
Presidents of the Royal Society), and the late Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle have given their names and support to
psychical research. In increasing numbers other eminent
men, scientists, doctors, novelists, journalists, soldiers,
sailors, lawyers, politicians, have testified to their belief
in a life after death and in communication between the
two worlds.
Surely, then, the time is ripe for this fact to be recog-
nised.
Without dispute or investigation on our part, the
average individual accepts the stupendous statements-
for example-that the sun is nearly 93 million miles
from the earth, that light travels at 186,ooo miles per
second. Sir James Jeans is reported to have said, "The
earth is only a tiny speck of dust, circling with other
specks of dust round a sun which is a million times bigger,
and yet is itself only a grain of sand in the vastness of
space."
Mter careful scientific research, extending over many
years, experts have declared proven a matter of vital
importance-that we survive death. They have not hesi-
tated to declare their conviction in this respect. Yet, dis-
tinguished and undistinguished men and women, who
have not so much as had one sitting with a reputable
medium, throw doubt upon a subject about which they
have no right whatsoever to express an opinion.
The Society for Psychical Research has made a thorough
investigation into the mediumship of Mrs. Osborne
Leonard. Their Journal and Proceedings record cases
received through her which cannot be explained by the
theories discussed in these notes. Mrs. Leonard is un-
doubtedly the finest trance medium of this generation.
169
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
Faith has now the backing of proof. Not alone through
Miss Cummins, but through other mental mediums, have
I received what is, to me, incontrovertible evidence of
survival. There seems, indeed, no other solution to the
mystery of mediumship. That mistakes are sometimes
made in the transmission of messages, and that allowance
must be made for the occasional inadequate recollection
of earthly details on the part of the communicator,1 must
be evident to all who study the subject intelligently and
from an unbiased standpoint.
In the light of our present knowledge it is difficult to
claim that psychic phenomena are a modem development.
If we refer to the Bible we shall find that at least one
instance occurs which may be described as a reference to
"automatic writing."
I Chronicles xxviii. 19 reads: "All this, said David, the
Lord made me understand in writing by his hand upon me,
even all the works of this pattern."
The inference seems unmis,takable, though in these days
"the hand of the Lord" would probably indicate a "mes-
senger of the Lord."
Again, in 2 Chronicles xxi. 12 we read: "And there
came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet ..."
(giving warning of the punishment that was to fall upon
the King of Judah). A student of the Bible has written
that "this writing came not earlier than B.c. 889, and must
have been [written] about seven years after Elijah's
death."
If we examine the New Testament for evidence of
"psychic phenomena" we shall probably be surprised to
find the extent to which these words might be applied.
Acts ix. I I records the communication of the name of a
street; and the name of a man living in it, with other in-
structions, were given to Ananias in a vision. And, to use
the language ofmodem psychical research, all these details
1 See Appendix IV, p. zSs.
170
SUMMARY
were subsequently verified. This instance might, in a
sense, be considered analogous with the case recorded on
page 163 and with similar cases which occur from time to
time in connection with psychic phenomena.
Numerous other obscure passages in the Bible can be
explained and rendered convincing to the sceptical mind
through reference to well-attested instances in modem
psychic investigation.
In the concluding chapter of Frederic Myers's great
work, Human Personality and its Suroival ofBodily Death,
he writes:
"What the age needs is not an abandonment of effort
but an increase; the time is ripe for the study of unseen
things as strenuous and sincere as that which Science has
made familiar for the problems of earth. . . . I venture
now on a bold saying; for I predict that, in consequence
of the new evidence, all reasonable men, a century hence,
will believe in the Resurrection of Christ, whereas, in
default of the new evidence, no reasonable man, a century
hence, would have believed it."
Here is the considered testimony of a brilliant scholar
who devoted many years of his life to psychical research.
Yet the Churches so far do not appear to have recognised
the full importance of this "study of unseen things." It is
true that some of the clergy have investigated privately,
and it is probable that fear of the opinion of their congre-
gations prevents many of them from more openly express-
ing their views. The mind of the lay public is not yet fully
prepared for the acceptance of the fact that faith has now
the backing of knowledge, that psychical research-which
may be described as the study of the human soul and its
destiny..__is an ally of the Church in the aid it gives to
belief in a materialistic age, in the assurance it conveys to
thousands, of a life beyond the grave.
171
"The Scripts of Cleophas," "Paul in
Athens"and"TheGreatDaysofEphesus"
all come under the heading of "The
Cleophas Scripts." They are historical
works dealing with early Christian and
Pagantimes, andpurporttobedrawnfrom
the Great Memory, by Cleophas and his
scribes.Theyare'WrittenthroughGeraldine
Cummins. Thefollowing information con-
cerning them was given by the alleged
Myers in 1927. E. B. G.
I
APPENDIX I
THE CLEOPHAS SCRIPTS
F. M. These scripts have been drawn out of the void, as
it were; not by chance; not through certain fortuitous cir-
cumstances. Their origin may be traced to quite a number
. of things. For instance, there has been, since the War,
a great desire among living men and women for some
spiritual reality. Out of that vast outbreak of materialistic
forces there has come the yearning for knowledge of the
truth. There is, on this side, what we call "the earth's
sounding board." Upon it strike the collective desires·of
the masses. These, at times, draw to themselves influences
from our side, group-souls who respond-if they find a
suitable instrument-to the imperative summons of the
earth children.
Now these group-souls are not in any way infallible.
They see truth from a certain angle, and in a certain
manner. They are anxious to illumine the path of man,
but they may not always succeed in giving him what he
needs. Undoubtedly the stirring in the earth-life made its
impressioninvariouswayshere. Therehavebeennumerous
responses, and these do not always appear to come through
psychic channels. There has been, for instance, a speeding
up ofscience during theWar and since theWar. And many
of the discoveries made through the applied intelligences
of living men did not, in their essence, originate in the
living mind. A group-soul concentrated upon a certain
promising scientist, and, using the mechanism of his
brain, gave to the world the secret that initiated a new
invention, that stimulated, perhaps, mechanical progress
or, perhaps, medical science.
175
:~
··•
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
There were group-souls of a low kind who gave to the
world a mad desire for violent primitive dancing, and in
this manner the young people carried on the expression
of those years of violence and crazy destruction.
Picturethese various spirit influences gathered round the
earth, like good and evil godmothers watching over a
child's cradle, each bestowing the gift that is characteristic
of the donor. A group-soul watched for a sensitive who
would receive, through the mechanism of her brain, the
old story of Christianity at the time of its birth. To the
members of this group there seemed to be but one answer
which could adequately satisfy the hideous spiritual lone-
liness of man, a terrifying loneliness as seen from the
Invisible. For he lay there in the mud, smitten and bleed-
ing, his pride humbled, his mind utterly bewildered, his
soul shaken at the roots.
So she1 has been wandering, no doubt, among the old
memories in the ether. In your world the young man of an
adventurous disposition loved to journey into unknown
countries. Similarly the medium, who has an adventurous
disposition, and suitable qualifications, can rove in the
tropic wildernesses of the world's great past, cutting the
flowers of man's emotional history, gathering the fruits of
vanished days.
But no age vanishes or passes away. You will find it
again: not as it was, but as man imaged it, in the heart of
the Universe.
The Great Memory contains the sum total of man's
subjective experiences imprinted on the ether. Certain
intelligences can link up the medium with a fragment of
this very considerable MS. She writes down the charge,
which is conveyed to her from that Great Memory by-
what can I call him ?-a spirit who has passed beyond the
state of earth-individuality.
The whole process is extremely difficult. It places a
1 This refers to Geraldine Cummins in person. E. B. G.
176
APPENDICES
considerable strain on the medium; but it may, given
favourable conditions, lead to the recapture, not so much
of the actual history of a certain period, as of the view that
certain intelligent and emotional men held of that period.
There is given, in short, the interpretation of an era,
as seen through the eyes of men who felt and thought
deeply in that period, and so printed their impressions of
it on the Ether Memory.
It is accurate history in so far as it gives the impression
of the truth concerning that time as it was graven on the
minds of certain men. It is inaccurate in so far as the sub-
jective experiences of even the most highly gifted men, in
any age, are inaccurate.
For what is true of the vast histories imprinted on the
Great Nature Memory is, to a certain degree, true of the
histories written by living men. In short, there will always
be the difference between a bad portrait and a good por-
trait! It lies with the people who read these histories to
discern, almost instinctively, what is false and what is
true.
History-making is an art. I hope that the long-dead
men whose ether memories you tap were true artists.
For, with the passage of time, really what matters, in
connection with a great revelation, is not accuracy as
regards facts, but accuracy as regards vision.
Cleophas and his scribes believe they are giving to the
earth the panacea which the sons and daughters of men
require. But they do not realise that the mental outlook of
man has vastly changed. He has little faith. He seeks for
what is spiritual through material means.
In the days of the Roman Empire, when it was in its
glory, the same kindofdespair, and thesame violentmoods
of desire, as in your day, swayed the souls of men. They
were plunged in an abyss of materialism; they yearned for
an assurance of life after death; for spiritual truth ; for
some escape from the doom of the flesh. But, in those
177 M
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
times, their attitude of mind was very different. Their
world was not ruled by a mechanical god, as it is to-day.
They were not fettered by the machine, they were not
dazzled by the gigantic triumphs of physics, chemistry,
and mathematics. They were, therefore, unhampered in
their reception of the revelation given them.
Cleophas and his scribes may succeed in gaining the
ear of some intelligent people, but the masses seek for
spiritual reality through physical stimuli, or in the doctrine
of physical science. In other words, they are trained so
perfectly to think now in physical terms that they will not
care to think in spiritual terms. The worship of the old
pagan gods, that preceded the worship of the One God and
His Son, prepared the way for the marvellous figure of
the Christ. The philosophers, even when most sceptical,
helped to produce the suitable attitude of mind among the
people. But nowadays your physicists, your medical men,
hold the power over the collective mind that the philoso-
phers once held; and they wave only the banner of
materialism.
Cleophas might be described as aunit, and yet as many.
In other words, he is the expression of a certain stage in
the long journey of evolution, of a number of fervent
Christians who lived in that early period. He is not an
individual, as are the souls of those who have of recent
times passed over. He is a collective soul, if you will-I
cannot find another term---'-and he is able to draw from
the Great Ether Memory the pageantry of that early
Christian period; not as set down by a cold detached
historian, but as the passionate outpouring of fanatical
and holy Christians, who strove to state in writing their
own emotional view of the period in which they lived.
Now, mark you, I use the term "emotional view." A
book that is written without emotion cannot impress itself
upon the ether. What is there imprinted is not the actual
words, but the images in the imagination of the scribe.
178
APPENDICES
These pictures and symbols are converted into words
through the peculiar mechanism of the living woman's
brain. You will understand that it contains an inherited
tendency for sacred drama and for Holy Writ. The neces-
sary framework of dignified langU.age lay there dormant.
This framework was not the creation of the present owner
of the brain. It is an accretion of the tendencies inherited
from a number of devout Bible-reading ancestors.
The scribes of Cleophas, or, rather, that collective
Christian mentality that hovers near the Ether Memory,
gather it up, and set it in the deeper mind of the living
woman. This deeper mind thinks and talks only in the
language of images. The process of translation into words
seems to occur when the subliminal mind casts these
images and symbols, in swift procession, upon the brain
of the woman. Instantaneously they gather to themselves
the needful garment of words from the memory-centres
attached to the physical organ, and the ancient drama of
Christianity, as dreamed by the saints, is set down upon
the page.
It is all true as a record ofthe vision that certain holy and
earnest men had of the time in which they lived. But I
cannot answer for the accuracy of their vision. The spirit,
that makes them one, closed its doors to fresh souls
migrating from the world at a period when religion and
mysticism were dethroned; when science, rationalism, and
materialism came to sway men's hearts.
So the objective of this particular group-soul is simpli-
fied, and not rendered complicated by the incursion of
types of a very different character.
179
APPENDIX II
THE PSYCHIC'S LIGHT
F. M. There are certain vital fluids that are connected
with the body. I call them fluids because that term alone
seems to describe them. These fluids are important. Ifthe
vitality is low they have less vigour. They fulfil an im-
portant function, they are the soft material which . . . I
find the term difficult . . . the softmaterialwhich links up
the mind with the nervous system and the body. The
brain is certainly the conscious controlling power, but
the unconscious must also play its part. This invisible
fluid connects the unconscious mind with all that apper-
tains to those myriad activities of the body that go on
without conscious direction.
Now, with some this fluid has a strongerflow than with
others. This is due to the balance between the soul and.
body and to the peculiar characteristics of the individual.
When, as I say, the flow is strong and possesses a certain
quality recognisable by us, it glows or, rather, we perceive
it as a flame. Most human beings have this flame, but it is
usually invisible to us. Only certain persons-mediums, in
short-can make it so clear and bright that we become
.sensible of it. This flame depends partly for its brightness
on the medium's will. The medium must consciously will
herself into that state of detached calm which makes the
fluid more active and contributes to the intensity of the
flame. The medium's will can injure our communications
ifit, at any time, starts the working ofthe machinery ofthe
brain. It is thanks to this quiescence of the will that we
operate. Of course there are other conditions which must
be taken into account. There is the influence ofthe sitter's
fluid; there are extraneous influences; there is also the
health ofthe medium. All these factors must be taken into
ISO
APPENDICES
consideration. If any of them are lacking, our difficulties
are manifold. I would like to add that any emotional storm
which has possessed the medium will, unless she be extra-
ordinarily capable as regards self-detachment, influence
injuriously the sitting that may follow closely on the storm.
This is natural. The fluid is very sensitive and profoundly
affected by any very violent emotion which has shaken the
medium.
There are other observations I might make on the sub-
ject, but, ladies, they would lead to a rather long digression.
The variety of mediums, their peculiar idiosyncrasies,
have all to be taken into account. One must be a skilled
operator or one must have a very quick mind to com-
municate vital evidence from here. The transmission-
you will understand-is much complicated by the inner
mind and its fluidic connection with the human being.
I find here a mind that is fertile and therefore responds
to my message in a manner that could not be hoped for
in the mind of one who had no scholarship of any kind.
ii;~:r;:~;r~~~!t~~-~i~~
covenes arellie proat'itlO~o mmds, one
Wij}joj~.t-~_h9~J~P.~l.9rifi.:m1t[a"'f>~-1!~!.~6rl.
li* ymJt scumtJst ra11s our snggestwR&" tRSpitifii'Uj ~jnd
nn11 nn+ admit that the creatiVe flaRb,_.tcqnires,mm;,e than
~.::..~~...--~~
e .Wl.~~!iP.:t ..•.JJ:. ,
,..-you perhaps do riot understand medicine or the secre-
tions ofthe body. That maybe taken as a parallel when we
speakthroughmediums.Ourmessagescannotcontainquite
the same form even if the idea be the same when written
through two different mediums, for the very good reason
thattheinnermindshapesthemessagesaccordingtothefer-
tilityofthatmind. Itisaphenomenonthatstill surprisesme.
I want you to know that I have made other attempts to
reach the earth and am still making them.1 But this par-
1 This was written in 19as. E. B. G.
181
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
ticular form interests me because it is direct and I can at
least convey certain ideas of mine very effectively when
dealing with this type of inner mind. Actual facts come
perhaps more fluently through the other type of medium,
certainly through the little lady, Feda. She is very easy to
handle in a certain way. We discuss these mediums over
here and I know a great deal about Feda's methods. I wish
I were alive to experiment with her. . . .
I wish to assure you that all my old friends who search
so industriously for proofs of survival have an entire mis-
conception as to the manner of communication and as to
our attempts at controlling the mediums. We do no~
~~~f0b!·-:~gi;~~Jffie*"fl~~i!~Fc!~?j!:it
communication. Our message, when it is direct, comes
from us to the medium and is always translated by the
inner mind. What that mind cannot conceive or appre-
hend it cannot translate. It receives our thoughts not in
words but as thoughts. We can on occasion, if we are
clever, give to these thoughts the very definite stamp of
our style, then the style is reproduced. It may seem
strange to men and women that a revelation of our con-
dition seldom comes through with clearness. That is the
fault of the instrument which cannot render the tune we
would gladly play upon it. You must remember that a
medium is rarely a mere medium. He should be called an
"interpreter." It is an interpretation,notaliteral statement,
that is conveyed to you through him. 'tb,~~as
always to talk. in tw~ .lan~ages: ~~. ~a~J~!i:~~, tq,us
axtd:'to transrmt tqyou. It1s a double function. ou should
study the mediuiit, and if you perceive any very strong
prejudice expressed, you will know that it comes from the
subconscious overflow and not from the poor shade who
has the greatest difficulty in contending with any fixed
ideas in the medium's deeper mind.
182
APPENDIX III
A SITTING FROM "THE OTHER SIDE"
FREDERIC MYERS, I am at your service.
(E. B. G. Would you care to describe to us what a
sitting, with Mrs. Leonard and Feda controlling, appears
like from your point of view?)
F. M. I will take our first sitting as an illustration. I
asked you, when I talked through this lady, to memorise
certain remarks of mine, and I asked you, in short, to keep
your mind actively employed in imaging the idea that I
was going to speak there. This was very necessary. In the
first place your apprehension of my possible coming, your
thought clothed in desire was like a delicate thread cast
into the infinite sea. I was watching for it, seized it and was
drawn by you to the sitting. That was my summons. I had
·still to make my presence known. Now, Feda was obviously
accustomed to you; I perceived that very soon. She did
not look for any stranger, but cast her net only in the
direction of those in whom you have a personal interest.
How, therefore, was I to make my presence known?
Chiefly through your assistance I was able to draw from
your subliminal mind, or rather from the strata of it
nearest your consciousness, the image of my name. It was
graven on a veryfineessencewhichaccompaniesthe human
being and yet is not within the human being. I refer to the
store of memory that hangs about you and each individual
like a cloud. I was invisible to Feda, but Feda, when she
understood that she was to search for a new communicator,
cast about her that net of psychic force with which she
apprehends the symbols we try to display to her.
It was difficult at first to drop my name within it, but
183
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
at last success was mine. Again through your help I was
able to use your fluid shape in order to obtain the neces-
sary force with which to precipitate my image into the
net. You understand that unconsciously you were quite an
active agent, for your desire was propitious, and so I was
able to use your force and at last I was recognised.
(E. B. G. It seemed to me at that sitting that you
gradually approached, giving some evidence first.)
F. M. I refer to image in a general-not in a particular
-sense. A general impression connected with the symbol
Frederic, she got the letter first.
(E. B. G. I think she got the letter "M" first.)
F. M. I do not know which letter first met with her
attention, I merely gave the suggestion of my Christian
name and surname in letters, and I understood that the
first letter was apprehended separately. To me it is of little
moment what first caught her attention; the image really
was the sum of myself as I was when alive. Many figures
in that sum were not perceived, were not snared in the
net, but a sufficiency was obtained and then she was able
to get the name.
.:
APPENDIX IV
F. W. H. M. DESCRIBES THE DIFFICULTY OF
COMMUNICATING EARTH MEMORIES
(E. B. G. When you are communicating through Mrs.
Leonard and Feda you appear to stand in your own mind,
as it were, throwing out your thoughts to Feda to interpret.
When communicating by means of automatic writing, you
appear to control the writer directly. Will you explain how
much you remember of your earth life in these two
conditions ?)
F. M. Ah, that is very interestingI I must explain the
methods. When I "stand in my own mind"-as you call
it-1 really ·stand in my own memories. Now these
memories would appear to you, perhaps, as a faint cloud
if you had rays sufficiently strong to expose them. But
Feda, who is in touch with a human being, can, if we take
the trouble to concentrate on a particular memory, read
what that memory is. She apprehends it and then conveys
it to the deeper mind of the medium through whom it is
finally expressed.
When I speak directly, either through this lady or
through another medium, the process is rather different.
I enter into the deeper mind of the medium in order that
I may make the necessary impression upon it which will
be conveyed to the hand that writes. In doing this my
deeper mind blends with her mind, the latter is in my
control almost completely. But unless I leave off control-
ling it in order to regain my memory of a particular fact,
I shall notbeableto conveythat fact or fragment ofmemory
through her.
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
What I wish to convey is this. I have to leave her deeper
mind, lose contact with it in order to obtain some fragment
of memory from the whole of my memories which are
outside the medium's deeper mind. It is very difficult for
me to regain control of my ship-if I may call it so-with
the plunder from my memories. But I can-and this is
important-employ the ripe faculties of my inner mind
when communicating directly. They have the knowledge,
and the memories to a certain degree, of the new unearthly
life. Can you imagine a mummy or a shell? My earth
memories have hardened, as it were, into a shape of that
character. They are as dead as a mummy; but can be
revivified if I enter into them. . . .
From the point of view of the writer I prefer the direct
control, for my will and mind can make use of her mental
powers in order to express my ideas. Now, these ideas are
a little coloured by her deeper mind, but only in so far as
she possesses very strong prejudices which might inhibit
the thought conveyed by me. I find, however, very few
barriers of this kind in her mind. It is loose and pliable.
Through Feda I can convey memories. I have worked
with her before, and she has been singularly quick at
catching my meaning. Of course, each new sitting with a
new sitter means such a change in conditions for me that
it is like learning the ABC of communication again....
(E. B. G. After you have spoken to earth do you find
you can remember what you have said when you return
to your own sphere?)
F. M. That question requires a detailed answer. I have
previously replied to it in a short way, but I feel now that
it requires some qualification-I mean my short answer.
I have suggested, in a sense, that clear memory in another
sphere was difficult. But what I wish to make clear is this,
that the actual fact-or the most significant part-cannot
be forgotten. I am but a microbe compared with an
elephant when I compare my thinking mind, even now,
186
APPENDICES
with my memory; and I who inhabit a body that is mind
cannot grapple with all my memories, or even a tithe of
them. They must, therefore, be pigeon-holed, but each
is attached to my thinking mind by an invisible thread of
association which can draw it up to me when the thread
receives a signal. Certain threads receive a signal when I
speak through this lady, certain threads receive a signal
that rouses certain memories through another medium's
proximity. At times the memory of certain things in con-
nection with this sitting will come to me in that sphere
to which I return. But they will come to me because cer-
tain associative threads recall them to me, not because I
carry them about with me. That is the kind of idea the
average man who is alive possesses of memory. He be-
lieves that memories are all carried about in his head-an
amazing and utterly false idea. Memory is the most
mysterious part of us because it is a part-and yet, not a
part-of our being. I could write a book on the subject of
memory.
WHETHER IT IS RIGHT OR WRONG TO
SPEAK TO THE DEAD
(E. B. G. Some people say it is unkind to draw the
dead back to earth in order to speak to them.)
F. M. I quite understand your meaning. There is, of
course, the obvious answer that we would not speak if it
pained us and made us suffer. But, in any case, the indi-
viduals who make this statement labour under an entire
misapprehension. There are many souls who are craving
to communicate; but those on earth who care for them
deny them the facilities. Actually, it is a very exquisite
pleasure for those who have left people they care for
behind to converse even with strangers, for it enables
187
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
them, as it were, to sense the love and happy memories
that remain of their earth life. J;lut apart from consider-
ations of sentiment in "coming back," as you call it, we
are simply in a different state of being, and one of its
features is· that a part of us can project itself into the
condition that makes it possible for him to speak through
the medium, while the other part continues his work and
life in another sphere. You may be perfectly sure that it
is a kindness to permit the disembodied to speak. You
suggest that it is unkind to remind them of earth associa-
tions. These ·are there still in their memory. You are not
reminding them of anything, you are merely giving them
an assurance that makes them happy-that the earth that
contains much they care for has not been wiped out,
obliterated. They are often glad and grateful for that
assurance.
188
APPENDIX V
ANIMAL SURVIVAL
F. M. You wish me to write of animals and to be entirely
frank in the statements I may make.
It is first of all necessary to classify those that man tends
to regard as inferior creatures. There exist on earth various
parallel lines of evolution. There exist, as Genesis will tell
you, plants, fishes, birds and beasts, not to mention
insects. All these have had the breath of life set within
them. How far are these beings the creation of the One
Great Mind endowed with the capacity for evolution? You
must understand that if man's soul continues to evolve in
another life, in another state of existence, it necessarily
follows that those other animated forms which contain the
power to evolve have also the possibility of sending out a
mysterious essence which may be likened to what we call
the soul in man.
I want you to place plants, insects, fish, birds and beasts
into their several classes. These resemble the forms in a
public school. The essences or souls of plants, after dying,
gather together in their myriads and in time form one
whole. These innumerable little beings-if you care to
give them that name-go up one step in the ladder then,
and are one when they enter the body ofan insect. Myriads
of insect lives again make one being which, in due course,
enters the body of a fish or a bird. And so the process
continues until you meet with the most intelligent of the
tame animals.
Certain dogs, horses and cats, also monkeys, are
possessed of a nucleus of intelligence that resembles, in
some ways, the crudest of souls that inhabit the bodies of
189
~ _J. J..-" 17. \vO'~
G)t\ 't--~· THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
f\ ( men. These dumb friends of ours pass into "the land of
'
.I
~·
~
f
''
l.
\
\
I
~
\
\
'I
'l
\\
\
\
\
\
\
earthly desire," as some of us call it. "After-death state"
1s, perhaps, a better term than "land." I wish to indicate
by this term that they do, very often, exist in a world
beyond your world. They live within the loom of earth
still, in the sense that they dwell in the soul's dream of
earth.
For manydeparted souls there is this dream-world here,
this ether-image of the earth. It is a place built up out of
the earthly memories of men, and possesses many of the
geographical features of the earth. Many simple souls
dwell contentedly in surroundings that appear to them as
solid and substantial as the material shapes on earth. There
are, of course, certain vital differences. The problem of
food or ofmoney does not enter into the life ofthis dream-
world; of this super-terrestrial image of the globe. In this
habitat, old dog friends or cats who were comrades in
other days may gravitate again to their masters or mis-
tresses by virtue of their affection for them, that is, if the
masters and mistressesareliving in this S)ladow Land. For
we call it a "Shadow Land," though it is really far more
beautiful than the earth. It is, in truth, the next state, and
the journeying soul must pass through it, even though he
a not tar lon within its o ders. But those animals
w o come to 1t cannot JOUrney beyond it. They must, at
some time, go back to earth and enter the bodies of human
beings. For they have not yet eaten of the tree of know-
ledge of good and evil. Only man has tasted that fruit.
This pretty tale, which appears in the second chapter of
Gene.sis,.has·a· p.r.ofound.sy
..m·b·o.lic s.ignificance;~pg,.,
of ~e ,~~,ll~_,.~t.b,3t"'~1l.i-P.. ..th -~ · of
~~~""\tr'li~~fJiffi~;t~{!a;:·~~a::J6i;t!:ii~~~
through this, the first of all earthly scandals.
If I were to translate literally the fable of the eating of
the forbidden fruit, I should describe it as symbolising
APPENDICES
lfbirth of the first~.}X_~.,smM, the birth of
e~efromfuemonkey shape of a female that was
truly man. By man, I desire to indicate one who had
wrested the secret of intelligence from the Invisible. It
was truly a step forward in the history of the evolution of
the creation of God.
Now, I would return to the theme of the animals.
Animals are not lower in creation than we are. They are
merely far less complex. They are not what men call evil
or good, for, as a rule, they have no understanding of the
knowledge of good and evil. But, as the tendency through-
out the Universe is gradually to evolve from the simple to
thecomplex, so what I can only call"theanimalmentality,"
that part which survives the death of the body, goes on
dwelling here, perhaps for a space, in the state that is
nearest to the earth life, but always inevitably returning to
that earth, re-entering matter, taking on the shape of man
in due season.
So you must understand that animals have souls, that
is to say, there is within each one a certain individual
essence that sometimes, uniting with another essence,
eventually enters upon a new line of evolution and takes
on man's estate. However, there are added to this
embryo soul other things that, according to the history of
the individual, are gathered within its nascent mentality.
INDEX
ANIMAL-MAN, 3 5, 39-40,68
Animal survival, 189-91
Attention, incarnate and discar-
nate, 107-8
Automatic writing,20-2,24, 160-1,
185-7
BALFOUR, the late Earl, and the
Society for Psychical Re-
search, 140, 141 n., 168
Bhuddism, belief in reincarna-
tion, 63
conception of happiness, 129
conception of Universe, 74-6
Bible, references to psychic phe-
nomena in, 170
Brain, function of, II x
CHRIST, after human death, 65
and God, 133-4
Cleophas Scripts, 161, 175-9
Colour (or Eidos), Plane of, 33,
54-61, 77
conditions obtaining in, ss-8
increased intellectual aware-
ness, s8-6o
telepathic communication on,
6o-x
Communication, from discarnate
to incarnate, difficulties of,
23, 101, 139, 16o, x8x-2
method of, 109-10, 124-5
Consciousness, before and after
death, S0-3, 59. 69
constitution of, uo-n, II3
its detachment from the body,
109
Creativeness, III-12, 130
Cummins, Miss Geraldine, 9, xo,
12
communications from F. W. H.
Myers, 137-8, 141-4, 151-2
193
Cummins, Miss Geraldine (cont.)
cross-references with Mrs. Os-
borne Leonard, 21-2, 26,
137-55
family history of, 19
method and speed of her auto-
matic writing, 20-2, 24
proofs of authenticity of her
psychic writings, 159-68
suggests to Myers cross-refer-
ence through Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, 139
writings of, 19, 161-2
DBATH,sunderingofthesoul from
the body, 79-82
after period of senility, 88-9
fears of, groundless, 89-90
memory and identity after, 83-4
violent, 87-8
De Brath, Mr. Stanley, editor of
Psychic Science, 25
Discarnate beings, three states of,
124-8
Dreams, n6-x7
Dream-world, 36-7, 190
EDDINGTON, Sir Arthur, on the
structure of matter, xo-1 I
.Emotions, on Plane of Colour, 58
Existence, purpose of, 30-2
planes of, 33-4, 35-6
FLAME, Plane of, 33, 67-70
Free will, 97-8
GHOSTS, explanation of, 86-7
Gibbes, Miss E. B., 9, 21
comments on sittings with Mrs.
Osborne Leonard and Miss
Cummins, 147-so, 152-5
N
INDEX
Gibbes, Miss. E. B. (cont.)
on Miss Cummins, 159-68
records communications from
F. W. H. Myers, 137-55
suggests to Myers cross-refer-
ences through Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, 139
God, beyond conception, 132-4
Group-soul, 62-4,70, 98, 175, 176,
197
HADES, 33. 38, 67, 82-3, 84, 88
Happiness, where found, 130-1
Hypnosis, u8-19
ILLUSION, Plane of, 33, 38-9, 39-
40, 77, 8s-6, 190
Initiative, II4
LEONAIID, Mrs. Osborne, xo, 12,
140
communications through, from
F. W. H. Myers, 144-7
cross - references with Miss
Cummins, 21-2, 26, 137-55
mediumship of, 144 n., 169
Light, Plane of, 33, 71
Lodge, Raymond, 10-14
Lodge, Sir Oliver, foreword by,
9-15
allusions to, 145, 146
Love, transcends death, 89-90
as applied to God, 133-4
conceptions of, 91-2
MAN, ordinary, on Plane of Illu-
sion, 41-3, 44-5, 49
his form after death, so
his form on Plane of Colour,
54-5
immoral, on Plane of Illusion,
47-8
three possible states of, 123-4
Matter, Plane of, 33
Mediums, 180-2
as interpreters, 19, 23, 160, '162,
168, 182
Memory, continuance of, after
death, 83-4, 101-4
living, process of, 99-100
Memory (cont.)
the Great, 105-6, 125-6, I76
of earth, process of communi-
cating, 18s-7
Memory-world, 36-8
Mind, expression of, u2-13
Myers, F. W. H., identity of his
views verified by Sir Oliver
Lodge, 9-15
allusions to his book, Human
Personality and its Survival
of Bodily Death, 22, 1S9,
161, 171
describes a mediumistic sitting
from his point of view, 1so,
183-4
explains that it is right to speak
to the dead, 187-8
first communication from,
through Miss Cummins,
137-8
founder ofSocietyfor Psychical
Research, I9
further communications from,
I38-44, I51-2
his communications through
Mrs. Osborne Leonard,
144-7
limitations oi his spiritual
knowledge, 29
on animal survival, 189-91
on Cleophas Scripts, 175-9
on process of communicating
earth memories, 185-7
on the Psychic Light, 180-2
states his intention to speak
through Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, 139, 141, 142
timeliness of his revelation, 77,
139-40
NEWLY dead, divisions of the, 35
OUT Yonder, 33, 72-3
PSYcHic Light, 138 n., 180-2
Psychic Science, journal of British
194
College of Psychic Science,
July 1931, ISS
INDEX
Psychical Research, Society for,
19, 140 I, 141 n., 149, 168-9
REINCARNATION, 9, 39, 40, 54.
62-3, 73, 89-90
ST. PAUL and the After-life, 85
Senility, death after period of,
88-9
Sex, continuance of, after death,
46
Sleep, detachment of the nerve-
soul during, us, II7·I8
Sleep-walking, II7
Soul, bodily forms assumed by,
78
connections with the body, 79·
8o
Soul-man, 35, 54, 57
and reincarnation, 62-3
liability to errorinfourth Plane,
64-5
prepares to cast off form, 67,
68
on the Plane of Flame, 68-70
unification in the spirit, 71
Spirit, evolution of, 31-2
nucleus of group of souls, 5I,
62
unification of souls in, 71
fusion of, inthe SupremeMind,
72-3
Spirit-man, 35, 53
and the fourth Plane, 65-6
'I'm.EPATHY, on the Plane of
Colour, 6o-I
process of, between the living,
I20•2 .
Timelessness, 33, 72-3
UNIVERSE, real and unreal, 74-6
UnseenWorld, langusge difficul-
ties in communication from,
22-4
significance of Myers's com-
munications from, 24-5
WISDOM, definition of, 92
the secret of happiness, I3I
Wise, the, 43-4
The Westminster Press
41 I a Harrow Road
LondonW 9
