{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__findlay___the_rock_of_truth.pdf","mytitle":"The Rock Of Truth","mylang":"de"}
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY
1st Impression,
2nd Impression,
.3rd Impression,
4th Impression,
5th Impression,
September 1933.
September 1933.
September 1933.
September 1933.
September 1933.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
Foreword,
Chapter I—The Truth,
FOREWORD.
T1-us book is a continuation of On the Edge of the Etheric,
as the arguments commenced in that book are continued
in this one. The two books together make one complete
whole, the first being an introduction to the subject; this,
the second, being its amplification into a philosophy or
religion for mankind.
Spiritualism is the only religion mankind needs, as
it gives a scientific explanation of the reasons for man's
existence here on earth and the proof positive of his con-
tinued existence after death. Spiritualism explains life here
and hereafter. It explains this world and the Etheric World
to which we pass at death. It does not fall back on ancient
tradition, it does not rest on faith; all that it asserts can
be proved and vouched for here and now. Everyone can
prove what it asserts for himself or herself, under conditions.
to satisfy the most exacting critics.
Spiritualism is the coming religion of mankind. It is
the basis of all the religions of the past, which have been
corrupted through the ignorance of the times in which they
were born and through which they passed.-
Incorrectly as the founders of the great religions of the
past have been recorded owing to the lack of the means we
now have of recording our observations, it may be possible
in some instances to discern through the extraneous matter
which has gathered around their teachings that they were
guided by super-mundane intelligences workingthrough some
psychic power, with which they were specially gifted.
As they were unique in their day and generation, much
of what they said was misunderstood,. misinterpreted and
confused, both by their contemporaries and those who handed
down their teachings by word of mouth from generation to
generation. How much of their teachings which have sur-
vived can be accepted as reliable, it is difficult to say, but
fortunately we need not go back to ancient tradition, as we
have to-day in our midst many who have this same psychic
power, through which we can get into contact with the
great intelligences of the Etheric World, who are able and
willing to guide us throughout our earthly existence.
Those great teachers of the past, of whose doings and
sayings we have such a feeble record, were undoubtedly the
fore-runners of the gospel of Spiritualism, many of the
principles of which they taught to an ignorant multitude.
Unfortunately their message was passed on in a form which
cannot now be accepted or appreciated by intelligent and
thoughtful people.
As the result of the development of psychic gifts in
recent times we are acquiring a. greater and better under-
standing of our place in the Universe, our origin and our
destiny. The great teachers of the past doubtless attempted
to make this understood but failed, by reason of the ignor-
ance of their times. In consequence of the growthof know-
ledge and the great achievements of science, we are now
able to understand better the meaning of the great truths
which are coming through to us from the advanced minds
in the Etheric World, and these are beingcorrectly recorded.
For nearly a century the fundamentalxprinciples of Spiritu-
alism have been repeated time and again through Mediums
in every part of the world.
It is the purpose of this book to help to make this
knowledge, possessed by but a few, known throughout the
whole world, as only from this knowledge, and the teachings
of which we have been the recipients, can we rise to higher
levels, attain increased happiness, and gain a real under-
standing of the reason for our existence here, and our destiny
hereafter.
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY.
Stansted Hall, Essex.
16th May 1933.
AUTHOR’S NOTE.
THE first four chapters of Part I of this book contain state-
ments against each of which I should have liked to quote
my authority.
This I found impossible to do and at the same time keep
the book within a reasonable length.
However, the reader is assured that there is good
authority behind each statement made. Moreover, these
four chapters have been carefully read over, checked, and
passed by one of our greatest authorities on the various
world religions in general, and Christianity in particular.
].A.F.
PART 1.
CHAPTER I.
THE TRUTH.
NVHAT is thetruth?has ever been thecry of mankind,
but always in the past the answer seems to have
eluded him. Only since we became intelligent
enough to adopt precise methods of investigationhas
it been possible to say with greater certainty what
the truth really is. To the ancients it seemed to be
the truth that the sun circled round the earth, but
we with our greater knowledge now know that this
apparent motion is caused by the rotation of the earth
on its own axis. We may accept it as a. scientific
fact that this is really what occurs, just as we can
accept the fact that water always finds its own level.
Truth to—day is therefore very different from truth
as understood by the ancients, and the truth as it
appears to us to—day may, and probably will, mean
somethingfar different to the generationsyet unborn.
Truthis but a gradual unfolding of some grand
panorama, and though we see now more than those
who preceded us, yet it is still but a glimpse of the
whole and no more.
Truth is eternal and unchangeable. We who
are finite and subject to change can only grasp it
little by little. Truthis always the same, but as we
change and advance mentally we can grasp it better.
Until we are fully developed mentally, truth will not
be fully comprehended, but as we develop, it slowly
8 The Rock of Truth.
becomes clearer. Often we in ignorance mistake for
truth what is error, and the history of man is the
history of error gradually giving place to truth.
The following remarks, made by a well—known
man, shortly before his passing on, make my meaning
clear. “
My life is ended, I have now written the
last page. I have put my hand to the last word, my
book of life is finished.” Life, if we take his words
literally, is but a narrow vale between two bleak
eternities, one short span between the cradle and the
grave. That remark no doubt represented the truth
to him, but it does not represent the truth to a Spirit-
ualist, as he knows that this life on earth is only the
starting point of our conscious existence, and that
our life continues in the Etheric World, to which we
shall all pass at death.
In the past the future life was a question of
faith, not a question of knowledge, and in this slough
of ignoranceatheismand agnosticismflourished. To
Spiritualists death is not a Wall but a door ; it is not
the end but the beginning of an endless day; it is
not the closing of wings for ever, but the opening of
pinions to fly.
Life and death to the orthodoxare very different
from life and death to Spiritualists, but the former
have never had the wonderful opportunity we have
been privileged to enjoy of getting into touch with
those we knew on earth who, as We now know,
continue to live in the Etheric World, about and
around this physical world of ours. One of the
fundamental doctrines of Christianity teaches that the
dead are consigned to thegrave untilthe great Resur-
rection Day, when they will rise again in their
The Truth. 9
physicalbodies.* No wonder it was considered that
the end of life would come at death!
The fact of death was accepted as it appeared.
The appearance of death was taken as a reality, but
much of What we accept in life as true is directly the
opposite of what is really the fact. Appearances are
deceptive, and nothing is more deceptive in its
appearance than death. When, therefore, We attend
a funeral and hear from the lips of ignorance the
orthodox funeral service, and we come away withthe
thought in our minds that never again shall we see
our friend, never again shall we clasp his hand or
hear his voice, we are the victims of another of
nature’s illusions. Appearancesare so different from
reality. Spiritualists have often spoken to friends,
Who have just passed into the Etheric World, at
exactly the same time as their funeral was taking
place, and have discussed thisevent withthem, which
lets us understand that as far as they are concerned,
what happenedto theirphysicalbodies did not concern
them any longer, and that the orthodox View of the
body sleeping till some future Resurrection day is
false and a delusion.
Before the year 1543, everythingwas taken as
it appeared to be. There then existed a great
mental calm which was broken by the great German
astronomer Copernicus. In that year he announced
his beliefin the rotation of the planets round the sun.
=)€ This statement may be disputed by some, but nevertheless it is true.
According to Cruden, one of the greatest authorities on the
Christian Faith and whose Concordance is in nearly every
clergyman’s study :—“ The belief in the general resurrection of
the dead, which will come to pass at the end of the world, and
which will be followed by an immortality, either of happiness or
misery, is a principal article of the Christian Religion, and is
very expressly taught both in the Old and New Testaments."
110 The Rock of Truth.
This apparently absurd idea was, however, accepted
by another, the astronomer Kepler, one of the
founders of modern astronomy,who propounded what
are now known as his threelaws. His contemporary,
Galileo, asked the priests of his time to look through
his telescope and see for themselvesthatwhat Coper-
nicus said was true, but theywould not do so. The
"telescope, they said, was the invention of the Devil,
as what it showed was contrary to Holy Scripture.
Galileowas made to recant under threat of imprison-
ment and torture.
Duringthe same period Leonardo da Vinci, that
brilliant all—round man of science, engineer, anato-
mist, botanist, geologist, sculptor, painter, architect,
and musician, also gave his great mind to help in
breaking down the arrogance and ignorance of his
times. During the same period, noted for its
pioneers of modern science, Giordano Bruno, one of
the most genial of men, suffered death at the stake
in Rome after seven years’ imprisonment. He was
tried, convicted, and imprisoned in a dungeon. He
was offered his libertyif he would acceptthescriptures
as God—inspired, but he refused. Afterseven years’
imprisonment he was taken to the placeof execution,
-draped in a robe on which were painted devils. He
was chained to the stake and around his body were
piled faggots. The priests then lit them to the
glory of God and in the name of Jesus Christ, and
thus perished one of the noblest and grandest men
who ever trod thisearth. He was the first martyr to
science, who met his deathwithoutthoughtof reward
or punishment, his only crime being that he helped
to lay the foundations of our modern Science of
The Truth. 11
Astronomy. He has rightlybeen called the Morning
Star of the Renaissance, as he never varied in his
opinions, which neither imprisonment nor torture
could induce him to modify.
i
From that time onwards things were easier for
those who put knowledge before faith, but still
Newton and Darwin and many others had to suffer
much from the jeers and diatribes of the ignorant.
From every pulpit in Christendom Darwin was de-
nounced, and the greater the ignorance of the parson
the more devout a Christian he was considered to be.
In 1859 Darwin published his great work entitled
Origin of Species, showing that man, instead of
having fallen from a high state, was the outcome of
a slow but continuous evolution from a lower to a
higher state.
Eighty—five years ago there occurred mysterious
rappings in the presence of two girls of the name of
Fox in the little town of Hydesville in New York
State, U.S.A. The Fox family consisted of John
David Fox, the father, who was a farmer, his Wife,
and two daughters, Margaretta aged fifteen and
Catherineaged twelve. In this quiet little place, on
31st March 1848, noises occurred in their house, into
which they had just removed, that could not be
accounted for, and they disturbed the entire family.
The girls were naturallylooked on as beingthe cause
of thesenoises, and every effort was made to discover
how they occurred. Mrs. Fox thought that if the
raps were caused by some intelligence it would be
able to answer questions, so she said, “
count ten,"
and ten raps occurred. She then asked how many
children she had and received the correct reply.
12 The Rock of Truth.
Gradually it became apparent that there was an in-
telligence working behind the raps. From this it
was easy to get intelligent answers by means of the
alphabet. The communicator stated that he had
been murdered in that house and buried in the cellar.
He gave the name of the previous -tenant called Bell
as the murderer. All this was found out later to be
true though unknown to the Fox familyat the time.
This is how Modern Spiritualism began, and
arising from this simple occurrence we are now
receiving the most profound teachingfrom those who
inhabit the Etheric World. Very many thousands
have received comfort and consolation through the
converse they have had with those they loved, and
who have passed on to this world of finer matter, but
only a comparatively small proportion of the human
race realise thatinter-communicationbetween the two
worlds has been opened up, and only a still smaller
number of persons have been privileged to receive
instruction and guidance from those higher minds.
Just as we are deceived in respect to the sun,
so are we deceived when we regard space as being
empty. Those of us who have been in close touch
with the Etheric World know that what seems to be
empty space is but finer substance interpenetrating
this physical world, and that the universe consists of
substance, or, to becorrect, ethericvibrations. We all
know that the sky is not a dome, that the earth goes
round the sun, that the earth is not flat and that it
revolves on its own axis; but few know that the
physical body is not the real body, and that we have
an etheric duplicate which holds the physical body
together; further, that this etheric body is the real
The Truth. 13
body, and, governed by mind, it continues to exist
after death, leaving the physical body behind it.
Only Spiritualists know that the Physical World is
only a very small part of the real world, that the
Etheric World is much the greater part of the real
world, and thatthe Physical Universe is but a fraction
of the real Universe. Only when we die shall we
beginto gain experienceof the greater Universe, and
then the physical to us will cease to be of account.
Everything, as I say, is different from what it
appears to be to us physical creatures. It may be
asked, why is it that only now we are discovering
these great truths of reality? The answer is simple.
We‘are the product of ages of ignorance, and some of
the most barbaric ignorance is to be found in what
many people of this country still call the Word of
God, commonly known as the Bible. This book
is in places the product of savages. It approves
and encourages the most barbaric cruelties. In it,
in the book of Leviticus, there is a text, “Thou
shalt not suffer a witch to live,” and this text for
five hundred years ruled Europe. Peter of Aragon
in 1197 was the first ruler in Europe to promulgate
the law that heretics or those who differed from the
teachings of the Church should suffer death. From
that date till the end of the 18th century, when the
last witch was burned in Belgium, European history
teems with one record after another of slaughter.
All who had thecharacterto thinkfor themselves
and use the great gift of reason were treated as
enemies of the Church and tortured and slain. In
Geneva the Protestants there burned five hundred
witches at the stake within three months. In the
14 The Rock of Truth.
diocese of Como in Northern Italy one thousandwere
burned in one year, and in Germany it is calculated
that over one hundred thousand suffered this fate,
the last being burned in 1739, but the persec
continued in Switzerland till 1780, and in B
‘H
till a later date. In England alone in two —
dred years, 30,000 so-called witches were burned
to death, and these Witches are what we to-day call
Mediums. Witch burning also took placein what is
now called the United States, founded by the Puritan
Fathers, who could not get liberty in England to
worship as they pleased. Such was the bigotry of
those days, that whenever the sufferers obtained
power, they in turn made others suffer. This text
“Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,” was the
cause of unimaginable misery and cruelty, and a
mediumship is a hereditary gift, Mediums wer
almost extinguished. Thus we entered an age 0
gross materialismwhich culminated in the Great War
of 1914.
In the year 1576, Bessie Dunlop of Lyne, in
Ayrshire, was burnt as a witch because in her
presence voices were heard which claimed to be those
of people who had passed into the beyond. In
other words, she was a Direct Voice Medium, of
whom we have a number in our midst to-day, one of"
the most developed being Sloan, to whom much
reference is made in my book On the Edge of the
Etheric. Many instances similar to the above could
be given.
From 1712, when the burning of witches c
in England, mediumship has developed and
panding at an increasing ratio everywhere. t its
present rate of progress, in consequence of what is.
The Truth. 15-
revealed through mediumship, this, the most en-
lightened country in the world, will accept generally
rinciples of Spiritualism within the next twenty
or so. _
his book will attempt to tell the truth as the-
author sees it, as nothing is greater, nothing is of:
more importance than to find truth amid the darkness.
and errors of life. This book will make a candid a
examinationof the beliefsof the past and the present.
It will attempt to make clear the past and present
errors of humanity, and show how they can be
K-
16 The Rock. of Truth.
he has put his reason first and faith second.
Through countless ages he has groped, struggled,
stumbled, and climbed towards the light. In the
name of education mistakes have been given him for
instruction instead of facts. In thename of religion he
has beengiven ignorantspeculations as a divinerevela-
tion. With love he has been taught hatred, and as
well as forgiveness he has been taughtrevenge. But
for the past hundred years Europe has been slowly
entering a new age of thought. Almost unnoticed,
theintellectual world has changed, and books could be
written of what was once considered essential to man’s
salvation, and now is considered of no importance
whatever. For sixteen centuries free speech and
free thought in Europe were considered an insult to
God. To express an honest opinion was considered
a crime against the Almighty. '
CHAPTER 11.
THE OLD RELIGIONS.
RELIGION and politics are the two principal factors
which govern our lives. The one deals with the
future and the other with the present. We are
thinkingcreatures, and besides the present we give
thought to the future. Besides our bodily comforts
we at times think of what is to happen to us when
the hour strikes for us to enter a new environment.
Our surroundings here and what theyare to be here- ’
after occupy our thoughts almost entirely throughout
our earthly life. Just as right thinkingin politics
and economics means comfort on earth, so right
thinkingas regards religion gives us an enlarged and
-correct view respecting our future.
A profound change is coming over the thoughts
of all thinkingpeople at the present time. It has
‘been slow in coming, but all important changes in
the world's history, which have become permanent,
have been slow in appealing to the reason of man-
kind. The effects of evolution are permanent, but
the effects of revolution seldom are. Nature makes
all her changes slowly,but surely. This new orien-
tation of belief will, when absorbed, completely alter
our outlook on life from every point of view. Already
its influence is changing our religious outlook.
Sciencealso is movingtowards a new planeof thought.
From a social point of View this changing outlook is
just beginning to be felt, but medically, as will be
explained later, its effect is hardly yet realised.
This change of outlook will give to mankind an
entirely new idea of his origin and destiny. It is
B
18 The Rock of Truth.
disclosing a new world, and in so doing is revealing
in truer light the mistakes and failures of the past.
Into the frozen North man has gone. He has
conquered the ice, the snow and the bitter cold.
Into the junglesof the tropics he has found his Way,
and he has explored the Seven Seas ; he has char-
tered their depths, he knows every hidden rock. But
there is another world to be explored, and this will
engage his energies and his thoughts in the years to
come, because into that World we shall all pass at
death. The more weiknow about it themore anxious
we shall be to learn how best we can fit ourselves to
enable us to enter it, not in ignorance as did our an-
cestors, but so adequately equipped mentally that we
shall be able to accept our new environment calmly
and naturally.
It is the purpose of this book to give to its
readers the very valuable information I have received
from those who have spoken to me from the Etheric
World about and around us. Over a period of five
years I have spoken on numerous occasions for hours
at a time with those whom the world called dead.
Hundreds have spoken in their own voices, many of
which have been recognised, and they have told me
things which at first I found extremely difficult to
understand or appreciate. Only as I came to under-
stand better the laws governing the Universe was I
able to comprehend what was told me by those who
once lived here on earth.
Those who read thisbook, who.disbelievein the
possibilityof oommunication between the two worlds,
those who consider that what goes under the name
of Spiritualism is either humbug or fraud, had better
The Old Religions. 19:-
laydown thisbook at once, as it is not for them. If they
are anxious to learn and know somethingof the inter—
communication which is daily and hourly increasing
between the two worlds,'thenthere are many books
full of evidence on the subject, and many oppor-
tunities to acquire experience of communication,
should the wish for it exist. My daily post brings
me a budget of letters from people anxious to find
out for themselves the truth of the claims of Spirit-
ualism and asking how this can be done. I would
recommend anyone to go to one of the recognised
Societies or Spiritualist Churches advertised in the
weekly Spiritualist press, as there they will find"
proved and tried Mediums who can be trusted. The
leading Spiritualist newspapers run by people of
repute and great experience in this subject are
Quarterly : Psychic Science ;
Monthlies: Psychic Gazette, The Spiritualist,
Survival;
Weeklies : Psychic News, Light, The Two
Wbrlds, The Greater World;
which can be obtained through any newsagent.
The earlier chapters of this book give a rapid
survey of the principal religions of the world, what
we might term theold religions, and thelater chapters
give more detailed attention to the new religion. As
the old is the ancestor of the new, so were ancient
religions the forerunners of the new religion. The
religious instinct in man is based on inherent belief
that this world does not constitute the sum of all his
interests and activities. The feeling has generally
existed in a vague way that the cemetery is not the
end of life. To—day, with our greater knowledge,
20 The Rock of Truth.
we can understand better the reason for the instinct
that life on this earth is only one stage in our career.
We know now that men and women are
possessed of an Etheric Body which is an exact dupli-
cate of the Physical Body. We know that this
etheric body is governed by Mind, and that through
the etheric body Mind controls the physical body.
During one of my many talks with those who
have passed on I asked particulars about our etheric
body and this was the answer given in a clear, distinct
voice, quite apart from the Medium, and taken down
in shorthand.
“
I have a body which is a duplicate of what I
had on earth, the same hands, arms, legs, and feet,
and they move in the same way as yours do. This
etheric body I had on earth interpenetrated the
physical body. The etheric is the real body and an
exact duplicate of our earth body. At death we just
emerge from our flesh covering and continue our life
in the Etheric World, functioning by means of the
etheric body just as we functioned on earth in the
physical body. This etheric body is just as sub-
stantial to us now as the physical body was to us
when we lived on earth. We have the same sensa-
tions. When we touch an object we can feel it, when
We look at something we can see it. Though our
bodies are not material, yet they have form, feature,
and expression. We move from place to place as
you do, but much more quickly than you can. You
bring your mind over here with you. You leave
your physical brain on earth. Our mind here acts
on our etheric brain and through it on our etheric
body, just as your physical brain acts on your
physical body.”
As to the reality of the world in which theylive,
The Old Religions. 211
the following is the answer I received in reply to my
enquiry.
“
Our world is not material but it is real for all
that. It is tangible, composed of substance in a
much higher state of vibration than the matter which
makes up your world. We live in a real, tangible
world, thoughthe atoms composing it differ from the
atoms which make your world. All in the same
plane can see and touch the same things. If we look
at a field it is a field to all who look at it. Every-
thing is real to us. We can sit down together and
enjoy each other’s company just as you can on earth.
We have books, and we can read them. We have
the same feelings as you have. We can have a long
walk in the country and meet a friend whom we have
not seen for a long time. We all smell the same
aroma of our flowers as you do. We gather the
flowers as you do. All is tangible, but in a higher‘
degree of beautythan anythingon earth.”
Nothing could be clearer or more definite than
that. The next world is a very real world to its
inhabitants.
We now know that this Universe is made up of
substance, and what we sense, namely physical sub-
stance, is only etheric vibrations. In other words,
the Universe is made up of a gigantic scale of vibra-
tions, which goes under the name of substance. Now
-there is a physical substance which we can see and
handle, but there is also etheric substance, no less
real, which in our physical bodies we are unable to-
sense. Our physical bodies are a trinity, made up
of mind, etheric substance and physical substance;
but owing to our having this etheric body, and owing
to the fact that the physical body is but a cloak or a
covering, it can be understood how throughout the
“22 The Rock of Truth.
ages mankind has had always a vague instinct, which
enabled him to look on the physical world as a state
of preparation for the world to come, and that there
was intelligence governing the world.
This being so, religion throughout history and
"before history has been one of the most powerful
influencesin moulding the characters and shaping the
destinies of humanity. Those who have made a
-study of religious history consider that the original
religion must have been a kind of indistinct naturism,
an adoration of the natural phenomena. As primi-
tive man cannot have had much consciousness of his
superiority over the animals, he could not conceive
this instinct within him other than in some way re-
lated to nature. Hence to the savage the sun, the
the moon and the stars, thunder and lightning were
his superiors to which he gave the name God. He
was a childof nature, he lived in thewoods and nature
he worshipped. Doubtless the first religion was Sun
‘worship. Could anything be more natural, seeing
that the Sun gives us light, warmth, comfort, and
growth. For our food and raiment we must thank
the Sun. Darkness is death. Light is life. .The
Sun is born in the morning and dies at night. Sun
worship ultimately developed into a complicated
system but it is the basis of all world religions.
Then to outstandingmen, after death,or to Gods
were attributed the activities and powers of the Sun.
"Apollo was the Sun who conquered the serpent of
night. Krishna was the Sun. The Ganges at his
birththrilledfrom its source to the sea, and all living
thingsburst into life. Hercules was a sun God, and so
were Bacchus, Mithra, Hermes, Adonis, Zoroaster,
The Old Religions. 23
Samson, Perseus, Osiris, Horus, Rameses, and
Jesus Christ. Cyrus was considered the son of a
God and his mother a virgin. Adonis after death
rose again the next day and ascended into Heaven.
Julius Caesar was believed to be the son of Apollo
and his mother a virgin. Jesus had a virgin for a
mother, he died like the Sun at night, and like the
Sun rose in the morning, and so on. To give them
all would be wearisome. They were depicted with
the Sun behind their heads, which is the origin of
"the halo ; many lived as men and were deified after
‘death,as all thegreat were in thosedays of ignorance.
Deification meant that to them were attributed the
powers of the Sun.
All the Gods of the past had Gods for their
fathers and virgins for their mothers. Their births
were all announced by the position of the stars. At
birth celestial music was heard and voices declared
that blessing had come on earth. At the birth of
Buddha the celestial choir sang,
“
This day is born
for the good of men Buddha, and to dispel the dark-
ness of ignorance, to give joy and peace to the
world,” just as it sang somethingsimilar at the birth
of Jesus. Tyrants sought to kill all the Gods when
theywere young. The story of Buddha’s birthand
what followed is similar to the story of Jesus.
Just as at their birthall was gladness, so at their
death all Was darkness and gloom. At the death of
Prometheusthe earth shook and the whole frame of
Nature became convulsed, the rocks were rent, the
graves opened, and the dead came out of them
“
when the Saviour gave up the ghost.” He then
rose from the dead and ascended into Heaven.
24 The Rock of Truth.
These Gods were born at the time of the year
now called December, at the date the days com-
mence to lengthen, and were worshipped by wise
men. They all met with violent deaths and rose
again from the dead. This is the story of the Sun ;
it dies in a red or fierce sky into blackness to rise
again, and round this natural event have been Woven
similar stories of all the Gods of the past. Likewise
the beliefin the second comingof Christ can be traced
to the same source, namely, the return the next day
of the sun after its setting the previous night. The
belief in a virgin birth arose from the sun rising out
of what seemed a flatearth, born from a singleparent.
This idea further developed, and Mother Earth was
supposed to be fertilised by the rain and heat from
Heaven and thus produce offspring. This contact
of Heaven with Earth came to be applied to the
various VegetationGods in thatto themwere ascribed
virgin births. Later it came to be ascribed to god-
men, and this belief is to be found in almost every
part of the world.
All religions have as a basis of the stories about
their Gods the same thread running through them-—
miraculous birth,light coming to the world, then the
descent into the darkness of the grave to rise again,
and the giving of life to the world. Just as they
were born when winter was turning into spring, so
after death theyrose from the dead just when spring
was turning into summer.
The different seasons of the year had a story
about the Sun, which came to be woven into the
life of each great teacher after his death, and Jesus
was no exception. The story of the Sun at mid-
The Old Religions. 25
summer, for instance, was that he was the feeder of
the earth's multitudes from a few loaves andfishes,
symbolisinga bountiful harvest from a comparatively
small quantity of seed, the loaves representing the
seed and the fishes the rain. Like the Sun the
god-man rose steadily in strength and power, and
just as steadily his power waned. Throughout this
waxingand waning appropriate stories were recorded‘
more or less similar for each god—man. There was
a story about the Sun for every month in the year,
which became interwoven with the lives of the great
teachers of the past, Jesus included. In all, the
number of god-men known to history comes to thirty-
four ; of these seventeen were crucified saviours, and
round the lives of all these saviours runs a story
similar to that told about Jesus.
Much labour has been expended by men of
eminence tracing out the connection between all the
world’s religions and the rites connected with Sun
worship. The more diligent the search the clearer
it becomes that all theological affirmations, symbols
and rites originated in the apparent annual and daily
journey of the sun through the sky. Day was the
symbol of good, and night of evil. Each day of the
week was dedicated to a planet or a star, which were-
considered to be gods. The monthsof theyear were
dedicated to the moon. Periods of years, centuries,
and ages were mapped out for incidents in the lives.
of the solar deities.
For thousands of years the ancients pursued-i
their astronomical studies, during which they elabor-
ated their various systems of solar worship. They’
mapped out an imaginary zone in the heavens within.
26 The Rock of Truth.
which lie the pathsof the sun, moon and the principal ‘
planets. It was divided into twelve signs and marked
‘by twelve constellations called the Zodiac. There
was a feast to celebrate the entrance of the sun into
.-each sign, and the ancients regarded the various
heavenly bodies as visible expressions of divine
‘intelligence. The twelve constellations were con-
sidered as the sun’s body-guard, which number was
given to the human sun—god as the number of his
disciples. Every 600 years a Messiah or world
saviour was expected, whose history on earth after
death was made to correspond to the legends attri-
buted to the sun. When an outstanding man arose
about that time he was deified after death, and round
"his life was wound these stories, as was done with
Jesus. Jesus is the last sun-god, as solar worship
and modern astronomy do not go together. Ma-
homet followed Jesus 600 years later, but by his
time intelligence had advanced sufficiently to enable
his followers to regard him only as a prophet from
God and not God Himself.
The heavens above, to theancients, were a stage
—-divided into various scenes of astronomicaltime. The
heavenlybodies were the actors, and theirmovements
were their performance during each act in a grand
‘heavenly drama, which lasted into eternity, and
‘were witnessed by the inhabitants of this globe, who
were the audience, and the earth the auditorium.
Theology with all its rites and mysteries is
astronomy as it appeared to those of long ago, and
ecclesiasticism is the play composed of myths and
"legends wound round real or imaginary lives to whom
were attributed all that was attributed to the sun.
The Old Religions. 27
Hence on to the lives of the great and noble were
draped those mythical stories, most of which are
familiar to us from the writings in the Gospels.
After death these men, as I say, were deified to
become sun—gods. The god—man was generally a
moral teacher. lHe was given a virgin as his mother
whose name was Maria or somethingsimilar. Our
translationof the word is Mary, and themonthwe call
May probably derives its name» from this virgin
mother. The word means thesea from which sprang
all life. This god—man was born in a stable
or somethingsimilar, this being the story associated
with the sun in the sign “
Capricornus.”
The Saviour—God’s birth was foretold by a.
dream. He was born of a virgin mother in con-
sequence of her contact with a God. He was visited
by wise men, guided to his birthplaceby a star, who
‘had read of his birth in the heavens; and also by
shepherds. Angels were with him at his birth. He
was of royal descent. He was preceded by a kins-
man who prepared the way for his teaching. A
tyrant sought to killhim and murdered many innocent
children of similar age in his attempt, but the young
child and his parents escaped to another country.
He astonished the wise men of his time by his
learningat an early age, and he was tempted by the
devilon a mountain. Miracleswere numerous. He
was transfigured, cured lepers, turned water into
swine, and healed the sick. Ointment was poured on
him by a woman and he washed the feet of the out-
casts. He had a triumphal procession riding on an
ass. He incurred the anger of the people and had
a farewell supper with his disciples, who numbered
28 The Rock a
of Truth.
twelve. Then came the betrayal, the agony and
fear, the trial, the crown of thorns, the scourging,
and crucifixion. At the God's death the earth shook
as the result of a great earthquake, and the dead rose
from the graves. He descended into Hades, rose
again, was first met by sorrowing women, and
ascended into Heaven to resume his part with the
other two gods makingup the Trinity,and some day
it was believed he would return to judge the earth
and receive his followers into glory. These looked
on him as the Saviour of all believers,he havingtaken
the punishment for their sins.
Such is the story, with just a variation in the
number of these details, of the sixteen crucified
saviour—gods- known to history previous to the birth
of Jesus. For details regardingeach I would refer the
reader to the book entitled The World’s Sixteen
Crucified Saviours, by Graves, that painstaking and
careful American authorityon ancient religion. I
would also suggest a careful study of hristianity and
Mythology, by the Rt. Hon. John M. Robertson,
P.C., late Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of
Trade, and ‘one of our greatest authoritieson pre-
Christian religions. In this book he takes every
incident in the life of Jesus as reported in the gospels,
and shows how each one is paralleled in previous
religions. Every statement he makes he supports
by making reference to other well-known authorities
on the subject. Robertson I knew personally; he
was a man for whom I had the greatest respect ; his
honesty, his accuracy,his care for detail, his caution
and his fairness were always apparent, and these
qualities were duly acknowledgedby the press at the
time of his death in January of this year.
The Old Religions. 29
The legends surrounding Krishna, the god of
the Hindus, are in many important respects similar
to what I have just written. He became incarnate,
so we are told, 575 years before the birth of Jesus,
and the place to which he was taken when a tyrant
king sought to kill him is exactly the same place,
namely Mathura, which in one of the early gospels,
not included in the canon, was given as the placeto
which Joseph and Mary took Jesus. His sayings
and claims are similar to those of Jesus, and students
of his life find 346 striking analogies between his
V
sayings and doings and those of ‘Jesus. Images of
ancient Indian gods have been found, and on each
there is a figure of a man nailed to a cross, with feet
placedone over the other, pierced, thehands pierced,
and also the side, and round their heads is wound a
band which may represent a crown of thorns. ‘
'
Mithra, another saviour-god, had attributed to
him much the same as Krishna and Jesus. He was
worshipped in Persia 400 years before the birth of
Jesus. Osiris, the great Egyptian deity, had similar
miraculous events attributed to him, and theselegends
go backthousandsof years. In theancient Egyptian
Book of the Dead one namedfpPetr.a was the door-
keeper of Heaven. In China similar legends exist
as are found in India, Persia, Babylonia and Egypt
and as came to surround Jesus. Many other
examples could be given, such as the legends sur-
rounding the lives of Pythagoras, Prometheus,
Apollonius, and many others, but it would just end
in repetition, as all that is attributed to Jesus was
attributed to the god—men who lived long before the
Christian era.
30 The Rock of Truth.
The Jewish records in the original Hebrew con-
tain two different words to represent the Creator,
though in the Bible translation both words are trans—-
lated God. The first God mentioned in the first
chapter of Genesis is Elohim and later on another
called Yahveh, translated Jehovah, who was one of’
the gods who made up the Elohim Godhead. Both
words may beof Egyptian origin. The former, some-
authoritiesbelieve,is a plural word embracingseveral
gods, so that the translation of thecreation could
read “
In the beginningthe Gods created the heaven
and the earth.” Elohim occurs more than 2,000
times in the Old Testament and in each case could
have been translated “
The Gods.” This, however,
is open to argument, and within Biblical times it has
been accepted as representing one God only.
The modes of Egyptian worship were not
unlike those instituted by Moses. The Ark
of the Covenant of the Hebrews was copied from
Egypt, and so also was the Passover, which was a
copy of an Egyptian feast. It is thought that the-
rite of circumcision came from Egypt, and likewise
theorder of theJewish priesthood,withits ornaments.
and dress, which were exact copies of Egyptian»
models. The Jewish fast days, their celebrations
and musical instruments, also came from Egypt.
Both Egypt and Babylon contributed largely to
the religion of the Jews, whose scriptures are based
on Cabala or secret doctrines handed down through.
thepriesthood. Biblical propheciesare based mostly
on astronomy. The ten commandments as we now
linow themare to be found in theancient sacred books
The Old Religions. 3I
of China, which are much older than the Bible. The‘
Bible is a storehouse of some of the wisdom, folly,
and cruelty of the ancients, drawn from all the
countries surrounding Judea and from as far away as
India and China. Volumes could not contain the
noble truths and gracious sentiment, combined with
ignoranceand cruelty, to be found in the scriptures of:
the Hindus, Egyptians, Persians and Babylonians.
All ancient sacred books contain good and bad, wis-
dom and folly, and are the product of the times in:
which they were written.
The Devilfigures in all religions in one form or’
another. The one Christianity copied came from
Paganism, and to it he was known as Pan the-
mountain Goat—God, with horns, hoofs and tail. He-
was God of the mountains, and the legend of Jesus.
being taken up a high mountain to be tempted by
the Devilis just the story borrowed from the Pagans
of Pan taking Jupiter to a mountain-top and offering
him the surrounding country.
All the forms, symbols and ceremonies of Chris-
tianity are borrowed from sources further back, and
_can be traced to forms and ceremonies connected with
primitive Worship. The Hindus, Egyptians,
Greeks and Romans used holy water. Baptism is an
ancient ceremony, infant baptism coming from the‘
Romans, as did the confessing of sins to the pries-t.
The rite of the Eucharist or Holy Communion‘
came also from the pagans. They had their"
eucharistic feasts after the harvest when the wheat
and the wine had been gathered, and gave thanks
to Ceres the Goddess of the fields and Bacchus.
the God of thevine, saying, “
This is the flesh of the
32 The Rock of Truth.
Goddess,” when eating cakes made from the wheat,
and “
This is the blood of our God,” when drinking
the wine. This was the outcome of a more primitive
ceremony, when the body of the victim sacrificedwas
eaten, and theblood drunk. This victim was in some
cases human, in others an animal, and the partakers
of this celebration considered, just as Christians do
to-day, that the victim received the punishment of
their sins.
A design similarto thecross has beenused as the
symbol of life for thousands of years and is found on
the graves of inhabitants of Italy long before the
time of the Etruscans. In South America on the
ruined temples thousands of years old, the cross is
found and on it a bleeding victim. In Egypt the
cross was a symbol of life for thousands of
years, and in an ancient sculpture on the wall of the
temple at Luxor the annunciation to the Virgin
Mother is depicted, the Egyptian Holy Spirit being
shown as holdinga cross before theface of the Virgin
Mother. In consequence of this she is shown in the
next scene as having given birth to a god-child, and
being surrounded by figures in adoration. The
cross was the symbol of love and sacrifice in Greece
and likewise in India and Tibet. The origin of the
cross as a symbol of life came doubtless from the
ancient fire worship, the fire—god beingalways repre-
sented by two crossed sticks. To the ancients fire
represented life, and we can assume that the two
crossed sticks became the symbol of life, becausefire
was produced through the friction caused by their
being rubbed together. A
The Trinityis not exclusivelya Christian belief,
In Egypt the Father, Son, and’ Holy Ghost were
The Old Religions.‘ 3-3
Osiris, Isis, and Horus, and were worshipped thous-
ands of years ago. Mithra was the second person
in the Persian Trinity. Brahma, Vishnu and Siva
made up the Trinity of the old religion of India.
What Christians call the fall of man and the atone-
ment are much older than Christianity. The atone-
ment was incorporated into Christianity long after
Christ’s death and was introduced with reference to
Christ. The sixteen pre—Christian crucified saviour-
gods were all supposed to have died for the sins of
the world, the belief being general amongst the
ancients thatonly throughthesufferingand deathof a
god-man could salvation and immortality be secured
after death. It was at least a century after the birth
of Jesus thatthe virgin birthwas thoughtof. There
is _no mention of it in the Epistles, the earliest of
Christian writings; in fact his paternal ancestry to
Davidis given in Matthew,and Jesus himself declared
he was not God. The gospels explicitly say that
Joseph was his father, and it is clear that the original
writers thoughtso. Besides this the word translated
“
virgin ”
in the original Hebrew (Isaiah, 7-14)
means “a young married woman.”
All religion, as I say, can be traced back to Sun
worship. All natural phenomena were worshipped,
and gave birth to the ceremonials and beliefs which
came later.*
>)(<Some of the standard works on this subject are Frazer’s Golden
Bough; Grant A1len’s Evolution of the Idea of God; Robertson's
Pagan Christs, and Christianity and Mythology; Dupuis'
L’Origin de taus les Cultes; and Bryant’s Eastern Antiquities.
A comprehensive review of Eastern religions will be found in
Asiatic Reseafches, a monumental Work of 16 volumes, revised
and added to by several authorities, especially by Sir William
Jones, one of the most learned of Oriental scholars, and past
president of the Asiatic Society. Refer also to Child’s Progress
of Religious Ideas; to Higgins’ Anacalypsis, and to Gerald
Massey’s The Beginnings and Ancient Egypt.
C
34 The Rock of Truth.
From this primitive naturism it will be noticed
sprang anthropomorphicpolytheism,which was an ad-
vance on themore primitivenaturism,as man now con-
ceived his superiors in the form of himself ratherthan
that of inanimate matter. His gods were like man,
bnly greater and wiser. Idolatry naturally followed
and he carved his ‘gods into graven images. Then
came the adoration of one God and one God only,
the tribal god Jehovah with all man's passions and
weakness, or Brahma with four heads and four arms.
Lastly come the most advanced religions of all, con-
ceiving God as the father of the human race, pro-
tecting and guiding his children.
The earliest religions, many of which exist at
the present day, are what might be termed nature
religions. To this class belong the religions of the
most primitive people. Many of those religions
existing to-day are but depraved remnants of what
they once were. Excluding these, the world’s.
religions can be divided into two groups. One we
might term anthropomorphic and the other ethical.
In the former group can be placed the ancient basic
religions of India; the religion of Judea, Media,
Persia, Babylonia and Assyria; those of Phoenicia
and Armenia and the Celtic, Germanic, Hellenic and
Greco—Roman religions.
On the other hand, the world’s ethical religions
are found in China as Taoism and Confucianism : in
India as Brahmanism; in Burmah, Japan, Tibet,
China, Siam, Ceylon and elsewhere as Buddhism;
in Persia as Mazdaism, commonly called Zoroas-
trianism. The other two great and outstanding
ethical religions are known under the names of Islam
and Christianity.
The Old Religions. 35
Those who have followed’ the discoveries and
researches of Professor Max Muller, who did so much
to raise the study of comparativereligion to the rank
of a science, can only come to the conclusion that
religion is the result of a slow growth,thatunderlying
all religions one finds a similar root, and thatthis root:
is man’s instinctive beliefthatthere is a hereafter, and.
thatthere is some power in the Universe guiding and
controlling his destiny. From this root has sprung
the tree from which branches have shot out in every
direction, and be he Christian or Jew, Buddhist or
Mohammedan, man’s beliefs can be traced back to
this one origin.
Just as languages are the result of the geograph--
ical distribution of races, so also are religions, and
in the earlier times religion and language generally
went together. Owing to this isolation each race
thought its own religion and its own political system
was the best. Just as each race thought that other
nations were its inferiors, so it thoughtthatthose who
held different religious beliefs were wrong, and con-
sequently were under the displeasure of its God or
Gods. No one can read the history of the Jewish
race as recorded in the Bible without realising how
closely nationalism and religion were associated.
The children of Abraham considered that they and
they only worshipped the one and only true God.
Religions dilfer in their beginning just as they
differ in their teachings. On the one hand we have
religions which are theproduct of the wisdom of many
and are the unconscious growthof year_s, and on the
other hand religions proceeding from an individual
founder, who as the leadingrepresentative of a better
insight of his time, makes a stand against theformali~
36 The Rock of Truth.
ties and ignorance of his day, recalling his followers
to a new faith and hope, to which he himself gives
shape and form. Under this heading comes Chris-
tianity, Mohammedanism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism
and Taoism. Here we have five religions with in-
dividuals as founders who preached a universal
religion for the whole human race. These religions
have been the most permanent and embracingof the
world’s religions as far as history records. On
the other hand, if the founders of the five great
religions of the world were themselves responsible
for their origin, there has undoubtedly been growth
and accretion to their teachings. They gave the
initial tenets and their followers have supplied their
own interpretations, so that even these individualistic
religions must be considered as the work of numerous
minds.
The comparative study of religion proves that
though each religion revered its founder often to the
extent even of Deification, yet the doctrines of each
were never shaped by the founders but by the
followers who came after. The founders only laid
the foundation of the new religion, not because they
intended to form one, but because they introduced
new and pregnant principles, which they revealed to
the world by their teachings and their lives.
Neither Buddhism,Mohammedanismnor Chris-
tianity were national religions, their founders preach-
ing a doctrine to embrace the whole human race.
Strangely enough, the founders of Christianity and
Buddhismwere rejected by the people to whom they
belonged by birth, and Mohammedanism owes its
position to-day largely to the high position to which
it was raised, not in Arabia, but in Persia.
The Old Religions. 37
Besides these organised religions, mankind has
been helped and guided by philosophical teachers.
such as Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato and Aristotle in
Greece. To come to more modern times, thephiloso-
phic teachings of Kant, Hume, Locke, and Herbert
Spencer, to mention only some of the outstanding‘
names which occur to one, have helped many in their
enquiries into the mysteries which surround us.
These individuals have moulded intellectual thought,
whereas orthodox religions have appealed to the-
ignorant masses.
Each religion of the past has been insistent on
the fact that it is of divine origin, that its teachings
must be observed by its followers, and thatits records
were sacred and divinely inspired. Incidentally,
everyone who did not accept its teachings was con-
demned, but those who were its true followers would
be saved in the life to come. If we, therefore, had
been born in Turkey we should have been the
followers of Mohammed and believed in the inspira-
tion of the Koran ; that Mohammed visited Heaven
and talked with theangel Gabriel. If, beingborn in
Turkey, we had denied these beliefs and held the
opinion thatChristianity was the true faith, we should
have been branded as infidels and, in the old days,
put to death. We should have been told that the
best and wisest had always believed in the Koran,
that the Koran was the best of books, and that to it
and to it alone Turkey owed her greatness. We
should have been told that millions had died,
gladdened and helped by the passages from the
Koran, and the mourners had been comforted by the
thought of the departed partaking of the joys and
delights of Heaven. “
There is but one God
38 The Rock of Truth.
and Mohammed is his Prophet," would have"
been instilled into us as the truth, and we in our
simplicity and ignorance should have looked on all
those who held other religious beliefs as pitiable
-creatures and fit only for destruction. Had we been
born in India we should have been given the old
records to read and told that they were true and
sacred. Had we been born in China we should
have been told that to worship our ancestors was the
only worship pleasing in the sight of God.
In like manner, where Christianity prevailed,its
adherents were taught by the Church that it was the
only true religion, and through it only could the
portals of Heaven be entered. All religions have
this belief in common, namely that there is only one
way to Heaven, thatthe only right way is that which
is defined by a particular revelation, and thatall other
ways are of the Devil. This is as true to—day as it
was yesterday, and, in all probability,similar beliefs
were held before history was ever recorded.
Into the dim and misty past we peer through
ages of history to the time before history began. In
that far-off past we can only imagine the religions of
man born from thesubconsciousinstinct in him, which
made him different from the beasts. In this vast
cemetery most of the world’s religions lie, dead and
forgotten. Olympus is silent, Venus is now but a
graven image. No longer does Jehovah speak to
his chosen people. Mount Sina.-i’s thunders have
ceased. Many of the sacred temples of India are in
ruin. The ancient religions of Peru and Mexico are
forgotten. The sacred Nile no longer harbours the
wandering Isis searching for the dead Osiris. Mem-
The Old Religions. 39
non is no more. From thewild North we never hear
the mighty Thor dashing the mountains to pieces,
and with him has gone Odin, the giver of life and
death. The Druids no longer dominate this fair
land of ours, which once was theirs, and with them
have gone all the gods brought here with Caesar’s
conquering legions, whose names are now borne by
the planets of our solar system.
Religions like nations have theirperiods of birth,
growthand decay. What is orthodox in one age is
rejected in contempt by the next. Gods, like their
creators, have passed away like those who created
them. Those worshipped to-day will receive no
reverence to—morrow. Mithra in Persia, Zeus
in Greece, Isis and Osiris in Egypt, and Jove in
Rome have all been dethroned and others have been
put in their place. What has happened in the past
will happen in the future. The Christian religion
will be no exception. Already Jehovah has lost the
place he once held; his cruel laws are no longer
obeyed. Many of the extravagant claims once made
for Jesus by his zealous devotees have now been
abandoned, and to-day amongst enlightened Chris-
tians his simple, unselfish life, his teachings of the
fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, are
put forward with emphasis. Amongst the more en-
lightened clergy these aspects of his life are stressed
to the disregard of others.
Many have now come to a realisation of the fact
that man must be his own saviour; that not the
death of another can save him from his own mis-
deeds. As a man soweth so shall he reap. Man
is his own saviour, and the most intelligent have now
4:0 The Rock of Truth.
ceased to consider themselves miserable wretches,
believing that another has taken their punishment.
Far nobler is it to enter the next world, without a
mortgage hanging like a millstone around one's
neck, and have the satisfaction of knowing that the
place one occupies has been reached by one’s own
effort, and not throughthe suffering and the death of
one who lived nearly two thousand years before we
were born. Such a belief makes men and women
intolerant and selfish, and is quite contrary to the
teachings of Jesus, as will be seen in Chapter IV.
CHAPTER III.
THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
ITS ORIGIN.
J
THE Christian religion, it is generallybelieved, owes-
its origin to Jesus of Nazareth who, according to
tradition, suffered on a cross at Calvary, near Jerusa--
lem, having been sentenced to death by Pontius
Pilate, who was governor of Judea from 26 to
36 A.D. This belief has had a profound influenceon
world history. The tradition of the birth, life and
death of Jesus is recorded in what is termed the New
Testament, the record being in the form of four"
biographieswrittten at different dates. The authors
are unknown but they go under the names of four
men associated with early Christianity. No original
document of the gospels has survived, and no record
exists of such documents ever having been seen.
Some authoritieshold the view that the origin
of Christianitycan betracedbackto theyear 100 B.C. ,
to one called Jesus Barabbas, who was handed over"
to the people at thetime of the Passover as a sacrifice.
Against this it must be remembered that Irenaus,
the early Church Father, stated that when he was a
boy he met Polycarp, and that Polycarp spoke of his.
intercourse with John and others who had seen and
heard the Lord. This is a chain of evidence going
back from Irenaeus, through Polycarp and John, to
Jesus and is well worth remembering.
Without doubt the central figure of Christianity
is shrouded in uncertainty, the reason being, as
Gibbon says, that “
The scanty and suspicious
42 The Rock of Truth.
materials of ecclesiastical history seldom enable us
to dispel the dark cloud that hangs over the first age
of the Church.” However, for the purpose of this
‘book, What is natural is assumed to have happened,
as during the last half of the first century on to the
year 120 there appeared a dozen independent docu-
ments, based solelyon tradition, but all alike testifying
to a certain Jesus, a Jew of Galilee, who was con-
sidered by a small section of his countrymen as the
Messiah.
In consequence of this tradition, what are known
as epistles or letters were written, and to these at a
later date names were given. These are also in-
cluded in what is called the New Testament. The
books of the New Testamentare not historical docu-
ments, no one knows who wrote them, nobody has
reported ever havingseen theoriginaldocuments, and
nobody knows when they were written. Various
estimates have been made as to the dates of their
origin, but nothingis known for certain.
One thing, however, is certain, that a profound
mental change occurred in Palestinenineteen hundred
years ago, and an acorn which was sown those many
years ago has to—day spread into an oak tree of great
magnitude. What did Jesus really teach is the great
question. We know what the Church says he
taught, but the great difficulty is to know what he
really did teach, as there is every reason to doubt
that what the Church says he taught he ever taught
at all.
Before, however, I touch on this question and
examine the origin of the records purporting to con-
tain his teaching, let us consider what is now known
The Christian Religion. 43
regarding Christianity from sources apart from the
New Testament.
As to the origin of Christianity, St. Augustine
wrote as follows :——“ For the thing itself which is
now called the Christian religion was known to the
ancients, and was not wanting at any time from the
beginning of the human race until the time that
Christ came in the flesh, from whence the true
religion that had existed previously began to be
called Christian, and this in our day is the Christian
religion, not as having been wanting in former times
but as having in later times received the name.”
St. Augustine was one of the early Christian
fathers, born in 354 A.D., and his remarks will
be better understood by the time this section
of_ the chapter is read. This opinion of St.
Augustine was also the opinion of Eusebius, the
father of ecclesiastical history, born in Palestine in
265 A.D., who says
“
Those ancient Therapeutae
were Christians and their writings were our gospels
and epistles," and “
the religion published by Jesus
Christ to all nations is neither new nor strange,"
expressing the view that what is called Christianity
was borrowed from the Therapeutae or Essenes—
a view held also by other outstandingmen of the early
Christian Church. These Therapeutae were known
under the name of Essenes or healers, and they had
their origin in Egypt. It was there thatthe Essenes
’
principally dwelt for over two hundred years before
the birth of Jesus. Their centre was Alexandria,
the world's theological university, where the
wisdom of the time was centred in those days,
and where there was the greatest library of the
44 "The Rock of Truth.
ancient world. These Essenes were taught the art
of healing at the University of Alexandriawhich had
a special medical school, and along with this art of
healing certain mystical rites were observed. Their
belief in the immortality of the soul came from the
influence of Greek philosophy. The Essenes were
established in Alexandria several hundred years
before the birth of Jesus, and were also the cus—
todians of the teachingfollowed for hundreds of years
before the birth of Jesus, which came to be incor-
porated in the New Testament at a much later date.
Alexandria should be looked on as the birthplaceof
Christianity, as there centred all the knowledge of
the world's various religions, out of which developed
what we to-day cal-l Christianity.
According to Philo, the great Jewish historian,
who lived at the time of Jesus, the Essenes were
philosophers and ascetics as well as healers. They
divested themselves of all worldly goods and thus
relieved themselves of all worldly cares. Their out-
look on life can be summed up in the words, “sell
all that thou hast and give to the poor,” and “lay
not up treasures on Earth, but rather in Heaven
where moth and rust do not corrupt.” The teachings
of Jesus and the teachings of the Essenes are re-
markablysimilar, and the similarity of many of the
sayings found in the gospels to those of the Essenes
is striking. The teachings of Jesus with regard to
this world and the next can be traced to Essene
sources. What is known as the Sermon on the
Mount can be traced to the same sources ; in fact the
sermon is just a stringing togetherof quotations from
the Psalms, Proverbs, and other Jewish literature,
The Christian Religion. 45
all of which were well known to this sect.
i
As a
community they were equal as far as worldly goods
were concerned, and none exercised authorityover
the other, all rendering mutual service to the com-
munity. The Essenes strove to live lives of purity
and holiness, sacrificingthisworld’s pleasures for the
happiness of the world to come. They lived a mon-
astic life, which may account for nothingbeingknown
of Jesus till the years of his ministry.
At the time of the birthof Jesus the Jewish race
was divided into Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes,
and most Jews belonged to one or the other of these
sects. Jesus constantly rebuked the Scribes and the
Pharisees, but never the Essenes, thereason probably
being that he was one of them. The Essenes
taught what to—day we call Psychic healing, and so
did Jesus. This art he taught his disciples, but it
was lost to the Christian Church which, preferring
dogmas and creeds, has left their Master’s teaching
to others.
Professor Ginsburg, LL.D., the well known
Hebrew scholar, who in 1870 was appointed one of
the first members of the committee for the revision
of the English Version of the Old Testament, con-
tributed a comprehensive article on the relationship
of Essenism to Christianity in Kitto’s Cyclopedia of
Biblical Literature. Therein he -shows that what
Jesus is reported to have taught, the Essenes taught
before him. The article is too long to quote, and I
only refer to it in case some may be sufficiently in-
terested to wish to study this question more deeply
than it can be dealt with here. The Encyclopedia
Britannica, under “
The Essenes,” also gives a
46 The Rock of Truth.
detailed account of this sect, and there are various
other authoritieson the subject. Gibbon was of the
opinion that early Christianity, before it became sur-
rounded by the myths, legends, doctrines, and cere-
monials of other religions, was just a new name given
to the teachings of Essenism.
Whence came this holy brotherhood? They
can be traced first from Judea to Egypt and from
Egypt to India. In other words the Essenes were
in all probabilitytheWestern offshoot of thefollowers
of Buddha. That Spiritually Enlightened One,
Prince Siddhartha Gautama, commonly known as
Buddha, was probably the source whence sprang the
teachings of the Essenes.
The origin of many of the ethical teachings
of Christianity, therefore, do not date from 1,900
years ago, but from 560 B.C., when Buddha
was born. He died 480 B.C. Doubtless the
teachings of Buddha can be traced back to an
even earlier date, and there is little doubt thathe was
greatly influencedin what he taught by the teachings
of Brahmanic philosophyin which he had been nur-
tured. According to tradition, Buddha the En-
lightened was not born perfect; neither was Jesus.
As Buddha obtained the name Buddha the En-
lightened, so Jesus received the name Christ, the
Anointed. Both grew to perfection and to wisdom
through suffering. Both had miraculous birth attri-
buted to them. To both at their birth came wise
men with rich gifts. Both were hailed at birth as
the Saviours of the World, by an aged saint, who-
used similar words, the only difference being that
Buddha was born in the garden of a tavern under
a tree and Jesus was born in a stable.
The Christian Religion. 47
Just as there is a correspondence as regards
the environment and associations surrounding the-
births, lives and teaching of these great religious
teachers, so also there is a correspondingdegradation»
of their teachings to be traced after their deaths.
What Constantine did for Christianity at the Council-
of Nicaea in the year 325 A.D. King Asoka did for
Buddhism. Both these potentates consolidated the
simple teaching of these great men into creeds and
dogmas. In both cases the words of the master
were collected into a body of doctrines fixed and
definite. Just as after the death of Jesus differences
of opinion sprang up amongst his followers, so after"
the deathof Buddhadifferences occurred amongst his
followers, and Councils and Conferences followed for"
the purpose of trying to bring all the followers into-
harmony. Again, just as numerous gospels, re-
porting what Jesus said and did, were written, simil-
arly numerous gospels were written narrating what
Buddha did and said. These are known to-day
under the name of Buddhist Suttas. As amongst
early Christians there were Gnostics and Arians, so
were there similarsects who took different views With.
regard to Buddha. Some called him divine and‘
others took the View that he was human like them-
selves, just as Gnostics and Arians held the View
that Jesus was human and not God, or part of God.
The early Church father, Saint Clement of Alex-
andria, in the thirdcentury stated thattheenlightened’
or perfect Christian is a Gnostic.
As Constantine made Christianity through-
adoptingit as a state religion, so also Asoka, adopting
it as a state religion, made Buddhism, the only
difference being that Asoka was a great and wise
48 The Rock of Truth.
ruler and Constantine an unscrupulous rascal and
murderer. He murdered his own wife, son, and
nephew. Both religions on entering under state
control beganto entertain worldlyaspirations. Then
orthodoxy was born. Some three centuries ‘after
Buddha’s death, about the year 88 B.C., the canon
was compiled just as was the Christian canon in the
fourth century of our era. In the year 397 A.D. at
the Council of Carthageit was decided what writings
should be considered suitable for the canon and what
were to be rejected. It was then that the New
Testament, more or less as we know it to—day, came
into being. It was written on papyrus withoutpoints,
and without commas. Before that there were no
authorised gospels or epistles, and in consequence
there was much diversity of opinion. The means
adopted by the Council to decide what books were
to be included in the New Testament were so un-
worthy of an important assemblage that they are
unbelievablein the present time. Much discussion
centred on which of the numerous gospels were to be
included, thetwo most influentialmen, Augustineand
ljerome, failingto agree. The opinions of Augustine
and Jerome carried great weight, but to-day could
only be ridiculed by intelligent people.
The foregoing, however, refers to the adoption
of the New Testament by the Church officially.
Irenaeus, another Church father, at the end of the
second century expressed his opinion thatthereshould
be only four gospels and not more, as there were
four winds and there were four corners of the earth.
By his time it was considered that only the four
gospels, the Acts, the thirteen epistles of St. Paul,
The Christian Religion. 49
the first epistle of St. John, and the Revela-
tion of St. John were authoritative. It was not, how-
ever, until the year 397, as I said, that what was
called the‘ canon was adopted oflicially,and from that
date the crystallising process set in, and orthodox
Christianity became firmly established.
As in the case of Buddhism, so also in the case
of Christianity, after an interval of hundreds of years
the fundamentals of the religion were in a state of
flux, of doubt, and the subject of constant debate.
The virgin birthand all the other miraculous happen-
ings which in course of time had gatheredround these
two came to be focussed and centred in written
documents authorisedby the Church, under the pro-
tection of the State. Many of the teachings of
Buddha and Christ are similar in character, for
instance the stories of the Prodigal Son, the Loaves
and the Fishes, and the admonition as to the plucking
out of the right eye if it gives offence, to mention
only a few. Other incidents of a similar nature are
common to both records, such as the story of Peter
walking on the sea, and the Woman at the well.*
The Jewish Talmud contains parables which recall
those ofgthe Marriage Feast, the Labourers in the
Vineyard, and the Pearl of Great Price.
What Christians call the Last Supper originated
in an Essene custom observed when taking leave of a
brotherabout to depart on a journey, and this simple
story is now surrounded by rites, ceremonies and
beliefs taken from Mithraism. It has been changed
3? Max Miiller in Science of Religion remarks “
Some of the Buddhist
legends and parables sound as if taken from the New Testament,
though we know that many of them existed before the beginning
of the Christian era.”
D
50 The Rock of Truth.
into a mystical rite by the Christian Church. We
can thus trace the origin of many of the teachings
attributed to Jesus through Essenism, and so back
to the teachings of Gautama Buddha. Many other
Christian beliefs are common to both religions, such
as justificationby faithand purgatory, to mention only
two. The Buddhistshave their Madonnaand Child ;
their priests, until recently, were celebates, and they
have masses for the souls of the dead. The resem-
blance between the two religions is so obvious that
earlyCatholicmissionaries thoughtthatthe Buddhists
had copied their religion from Christianity. It will
now be interesting to consider more closely the origin.
and development of Christianity itself.
We are told in the Acts of the Apostles that
Christians received their name at Antioch, and
that Saul of Tarsus, as the result of his con-
version, was principally responsible after the death
of Jesus for gatheringtogether the scattered band of
the Nazarene’s followers, into whom he instilledsome
of his great enthusiasm for the cause. The origin
of the name Christian was the fact that oil was
used in anointing Kings and Priests, and Jesus was
ultimately given the additional name of Christ, the
Anointed One, and finally it resolved into Jesus the
Christ or Jesus Christ. Prior to this, however, Saul,
now called Paul, had retired to Arabiato be imbued
doubtless with the teachings of the older religions,
and he returned to join the disciples full of
the idea that Jesus was the longed-for Messiah
awaited by the Jews.
The earliest trace we have of an account of the
life of Jesus describes him only in human terms. The
The Christian Religion. 51
reconstructed Quelle document, a Greek translation
of an earlier Aramaicdocument, which is quite as early
as the early part of Mark, and is the furthest back we
can get, makes no reference to the miraculous. The
birth, death and resurrection legends are not referred
to, only his teaching. This then is the best evidence’
we have of thereal Jesus, a teacher and reformer, and
but for the idea evolved in the mind of Paul that he-
was the Messiah he would never have been regarded.
as anything else.
OtherJewish Messiahs have come and gone, but.
only those who study Jewish history know anythingof‘
,
them. Paul, however, decided that Jesus was to be-
made known to theJews first and thento the Gentiles,
and to gain converts amongst the latter his mental
evolution proceeded. First of all he regarded Jesus.
as the Messiah of the Jews ; then the idea developed
that he was the world’s crucified saviour. This is
noticeable'as only when Paul comes into contact with
the Pagans does he preach the crucified and risen.
saviour, which, based on their mythologyof crucified
saviour gods, theycould understand,whereas a Jewish.
Messiah would mean nothingto them. The purport
of his teachings, as witnessed by letters attributed to
him, is that “
as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall
all be made alive.”
The writings attributed to Paul are considered‘.
of earlier date than the gospels, and to all who have
studied theancientreligion of Egypt it becomesclearly‘
noticeable how much the writer was influenced by
the beliefs surrounding Osiris. The 15th Chapter
of 1st Corinthianson the arguments for the resurrec-«
tion might have been written by a worshipper of"
52 The Rock of Truth.
Osiris, as all the arguments therein had been current
for thousands of years in the land of the Nile. It is
just the old argument, but in this case the god is
Jesus instead of Osiris.
Here we have the foundation of what is now
termed the Christian faith, which was added to bit by
bit as it absorbed something from each of the old
religions. What we know to—day as the Christian
beliefs did not owe their origin to Jesus, but in
embryo to St. Paul, and his enthusiasm for the
idea that Jesus was the longed~for Messiah of the
Jews, and the Saviour of the human race. But St.
Paul's views carried weight only amongst a certain
section. Other leaders came on the scene who had
entirely different conceptionsas to the meaning of the
mission of Jesus, and these opinions varied wherever
Christians assembled.
According to that great Biblical authority,the
Reverend Dr. Davidson, it was not till one hundred
and seventy years from the birth of Jesus that the
collection of Christian documents assumed any form,
and only from that time onwards were some con-
sidered of more authoritythan others. They were
uncritically taken from tradition and gradually
elevated to the rank of Divine Documents, and Dr.
Davidson describes those early fathers who were
responsible for their choice as
“
credulous and blun-
dering, passionate and one—sided.”
Ultimately, as previously said, these documents
were formed into a canon at the Council of Carthage
in 397 A.D. To the early Christians the Old Testa-
ment was theonlybookwhich was considered inspired,
and thetext often quoted, thatall Scripture is given by
The Christian Religion. _
53
the inspiration of God, referred to the Jewish Book
of the Law, and had no reference to the New Testa-
ment, which when this was written did not exist, and
was not even thought of. The early Church fathers
did not consider the books now contained in the New
Testament as sacred documents and clothed with
divine authority. To them the Old Testament was
theWord of God, and onlyafter thelapse of about two
hundred years did certain writings rise in the estima-
tion of Christians, and become considered as equal in
value to those of the Old Testament.
We know thatthe people of Syria in the time of
Jesus spoke the Aramaic language, but the earliest
documents recording his deeds and sayings are known.
to have been written in Greek. Nothingwas written
in Aramaic,and no one knows when or how the Greek
history of thoseoccurrences was recorded. We know,
however, that three hundred years after the events
recorded something resembling our present New
Testament was collated into what is now called the
Latin Vulgate, a translation from the Greek docu-
ments into Latin.
The New Testament was brought together into
one book at the close of the fourth century, and the
two testaments were brought together into one book
in the sixthcentury. This book differed considerably
from our present Bible, which came into being as
late as 1611. Prior to this, numerous conferences
were held to decide which books were inspired and
which were not, and finality was reached only in the
seventeenth century. Before this date right back
through the Christian era nearly every book now
forming part of the Bible was at one time or another
.54 The Rock of Truth.
looked on by the Christian Church as spurious and
not divinely inspired. ‘
Were the Divines at Westminster inspired
"to decide which books were inspired, and if so, why
were the priests composing the numerous previous
Councils not also inspired? How is it thatChristians
had to wait till the 17th century before it could be
decided what was true and what was not?
When all thisis carefullyconsidered, how foolish
it seems to wrangleover texts as if theywere God in-
spired! Did we fully realise this, how differences
dividing various sects would dissolve! Had our
ancestors never heard the word “inspiration,” how
much betterit would have beenfor humanity ! Many
millions of lives would have been saved, and the
Church would have come through the last nineteen
hundred years with clean hands, innocent of blood-
shed.
The New Testament as we know it to-day con-
sists of ‘books whose origin is unknown, and whose
authorsare unknown. Theywere chosen uncritically
by ignorant men, steeped in superstition. What was
merelytradition becameelevated to therank of sacred
documents, word by word inspired by God, and
Christians were exhorted to follow every divine mis-
take and pious contradiction. The earliest copies of
any of the books now comprising the New Testa-
ment known to exist belong to the middle of the
fourth century, but they are only copies, and no one
knows whether they are in any way like the original
documents or not.
»
The Arians, a sect of the early Christians which
-maintainedthatGod and Jesus were not thesame, and
The Christian Religion. 55
that Jesus was subordinate to God, nearly won the
day at the Council of Nicaea in 325 A.D., that most
decisive event in the history of the Christian Church.
;Arius, the leader, was an Alexandrian Presbyter of
the Church. At that great Council, after months of
arguing, the anti—divines first carried the day, and
then the pro—divines, until ultimately it was decided
by a narrow majority that Iesus was the Son of God
and the second member of the Trinity.
To decide this great question there assembled at
Nicaea 2,048 ignorant and superstitious Christian
priests, and also representativesof Paganism. Num-
erous resolutions were presented to Constantine, who
presided, but he burned them all without reading
them, “lest the contentions of the priests should
become known to anyone.”* Out of this puerile
assembly grew the Nicene creed which officially
added Jesus to the Pantheon of Incarnate crucified
god—men, thus increasingtheir numberto seventeen.‘l'
The creed received royalassent, and a royalcommand
was issued that everyone must believe it, and that
Christianity thus defined was to be the state religion
of Rome for the future. The bishops who opposed
it were cast out as heretics, and those who had been
on thewinningside were promotedand given placesof
'=X< The history of the Council of Nicaea is given in The History of the
Christian Church, by Canon Robertson, and in The History of
the Eastern Church, by Dean Stanley.
~,}- The following are the 16 crucified saviour-gods believed by their
followers to have lived, and died for the sins of the world, together
with their countries of origin and approximate dates :—Thulis
(Egypt), 1700 B.C. ; Crite (Babylon),1200 B.C. ; Atys (Phrygia),
1170 B.C. ; Thammuz (Syria),1160 B.C. ; Hesus (Europe), 834 3.c. ;
Indra (Thibet),725 13.0.; Bali (Asia), 725 B.c.; Iao (Nepaul),
622 B.C. ; Alcestos (Euripides), 600 B.C.; Sakia (India), 600 3.0. ;
Quexalcote (Mexico), 587 3.0.; Wittoba (Travancore),552 B.C.;
Krishna Ieseus (India), 550 13.0. ; Prometheus (Greece), 547 B.c. ;
Quirinus (Rome), 506 B.C. ; Mithra (Persia), 400 B.C. The word
“crucified” must be taken in a wider sense than usual, as several
were “hanged on a tree" as St. Paul said happened to Jesus.
56 The Rock of Truth.
authorityunder the holyname of “
orthodox.’’
Then
persecution began, and Christianity entered on its
record of bloodshed.
Nicaea was the grave of Christianity as under-
stood by its founder, and from 325 until the present
time it has been a religion containing many of the
superstitions of previous religions, as what was
believed to have happened to previous saviour—gods
was made to centre round Jesus.
To understand correctlyhow Christianityevolved
out of the simple teachings of the Nazarene, one
must keep in mind that, before Nicaea, Christianity
was onlya sect amongst numerous othersects, withno
particular standing. When, however, the power of
Rome came behindit theposition immediatelyaltered,
and as it had been decreed that Christianity was to
be the State religion of the future, then those who
controlled its destinies were determined that it would
not be inferior to rival sects and cults of its time.
Consequentlyits teachingsand ritual had to be up to
the level of prevailing religions, and the more the
miraculous was emphasised the more likely was the
new religion to be accepted by the ignorant masses.
Thus we find thatthe Nicene Creed was substantially
altered longafter theCouncilof Nicaea, at some place
unknown, at an unknown date, by some person or
persons unknown, when the miraculous was further
stressed, and on this unauthorised creed rests the
beliefsof the Christian Church to-day. There is no
need for touchingon theApostles’ Creed, as its origin
is unknown. It has grown out of obscurity, and
cannot be traced in its present form to an earlier
date than the middle of the 8th century. All
The Christian Religion. 57
that is known for certain is that the Apostles knew‘
nothing of it, but it was given that name by the
Church so as to increase its authority. The origin of
the AthanasianCreed is likewise unknown, and like-
the Apostles’ Creed it was given the name of this.
leadingchurchman to increase its prestige, but he was
certainly not the author of it, as it was not brought
to light for hundreds of years after his death.*i All
that need be said of it is that it has caused untold
misery for centuries, and it is a document that every
decent—minded Christian should be utterly ashamed-
to repeat as so many do on their special feast days.
The coming of Christianity under State control.‘
preserved it as a religion and as an organisation, and‘
this event was the death knell of all other Roman
cults and sects. Had Constantine decided to uphold
Mithraisminstead of Christianityas the State religion,
the latter would have been obliterated instead of
Mithraism. The Emperor Julian, who followed
Constantine, went back to Mithraism, but his short
reign of less than two years, from 361 to 363, could
not change what the strong mind of Constantinehad
decreed. Besides this, his defeat and death in battle-
in Persia, the home of Mithraism, was used by the-
Christians as an argument against the old and in
favour of the new, and was looked on as an omen that
Christianity had divine approval. Had Julian been
successful and had a long reign, the entire religious
history of Europe would have been different.
Under Jovian, the Emperor who followed, the
substitution of Christianity for Mithraism made-
further headway, and we now find Divine Sonship,
3% For confirmation of‘ all I 'al)<:iuitiitlie-ChristianCreeds refer to
Encyclopedia Britannica under Creeds.
58 The Rock of Truth.
the Virgin Birth, the Cross, Resurrection, Salvation,
Baptism, the Trinity, and the Eucharist, generally
accepted as the basis of Christianity. Christianity
from now onwards contained these features, which
/can be traced back to all the religions of the East,
but especially to lVIithraism, which should be
looked on as the parent of the forms, ceremonials,
rites, and creeds of Christianity. Christianity ab-
sorbed Mithraism and all it stood for, and thus its
-chief rival in the Roman Empire disappeared.
Mithraism,”“ the name given to the religion
followed by those who worshipped the Sun God
Mithra, came to Europe from Persia. From Persia
"it spread through Europe, including Great Britain.
In point of universality it was the most wide-spread
religion in the western world in the early centuries
of the Christian era. It made its appeal both to
freemen and bondmen, and its monumental remains
are scattered about in all the countries of Europe,
which then included the civilised world.
What, then, were the beliefs of this religion?
These go back to a period long before the Christian
era. Its followers worshipped the god Mithra,
the Deity of Light and Truth created by, yet co-
equal with, the Supreme Deity. They believed in
theTrinity,the Father,the Son and the Holy Ghost,
Mithra being the Son. Mithra was styled “
the
most beloved by men,” and to him were assigned
very lofty ideals; he was also the Lamb slain
for the sins of the world. They kept Sunday,
'$l= Mithraism is considered at great length, and all the authorities
referred to, in J. M. Robertson's standard work Pagan Christs.
Refer also to “
Mithras”
in Encyclopedia Britannica, and Chap-
ters 15 and 16 of Gibbon’s Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,
and Les Mysteres de Mithra, by Franz Cumont, Mithraism and
Christianity, by Patterson, Mithraism, by Stuart Jones.
The Christian Religion. 59
the first day of the week, as their day of worship,
and Mithra was its Lord, and Sunday was known as
“
The Lord’s Day.“ Their chief festivals were what
We now call Christmas and Easter. Mithrawas born
at Christmas and died at Easter. At Easter the form-
alities representing the death of the Deity were gone
‘through, and what is now called Lent was observed.
What is now termed the Eucharist or the Lord’s
Supper, or the Holy Communion, was observed, the
bread being eaten and the wine drunk in memory of
Mithra. Baptism was practised, and a sign believed
to be that of the Cross was made on the forehead
of the baptised. Mithra was the Logos, the Incar-
nate Word, and was sacrificed for sin. He was
considered the Mediator and Saviour of all believers,
conferring on them eternal life in Heaven in return
for their belief. The human soul, they believed,
had been separated from God, and through this
sacrifice attained re-union. Mithra is represented
as the Lamb slain for the sins of the world.*
Only after successive pontifical decrees were the
peopleas a whole made to accept ]esus as theWorld's
Saviour instead of Mithra. Mithra was born in a
cave, just as in the early Christian writings Jesus is
reported as being born in a cave. Shepherds came
to adore him and offer him gifts, his mother was a
virgin, he was buried in a rock tomb, and when they
looked for his body it could not be found. Mithra
after death passed into Hades and rose again from
the dead, and his followers believed that on the last
day a general resurrection of the dead would take
place and he would then judge the world.
=i(=Unfortunate1y no Mithraic documents have survived, and what is
known of Mithraism is derived from its monuments and the
writings of the early Christian fathers.
60 The Rock of Truth.
In View of this long series of signal parallels
between Mithraismand Christianity,what other view
can an intelligent individual take than that the doc-
trines, dogmas and ceremonials of Mithraism were
added to the simple teachings of Jesus, when it is
known thatMithraismis theolder religion of the two?
It first became known to the Romans in 70 B.C., but
it was an established religion in Persia more than 400
years before Christ. These two religions lived side
by side for three centuries until Christianity instead
of Mithraism became officially recognised by the
State. Christianity,the new State religion, absorbed
its rival and they became united under one name,
Christianity. There is nothingmysterious about it,
all is natural, and all that happened was the dropping
of the god Mithra and the substituting of a new god
Jesus.
Thus, it is not surprising to find that the older
religion supplied the Christians with not onlymany of
their doctrines, symbols, and rites, but their priests
with the form of their vestments, and the Vatican
Mount, the site of Mithraicworship, with the site for
theprincipalChurch of Christendom,inwhich rests St.
Peter’s chair, of probable Mithraic origin, and round
its dome is graven a Mithraic legend. From Mith-
raism Christians probably copied the placingof their
Churches facingthe East, the direction of the rising
sun, and also the numerous forms of terminology
such as “The Good Shepherd,” “The King of
Glory,” “
The Light of the World,” “
The Lamb
of God,” “
Lord and Father," and “Lord of all.“
By 377 we find Christianity suflicientlystrong to
suppress by force its former rival. In that year
The Christian Religion. 61
Mithraic worship was suppressed both in Rome and
Alexandria. Still it was a formidable opponent, and
only slowly did the people forsake the old and adopt
the new. Though it was the old wine, yet it was
being given to them in a new bottle. Even the
Emperor at this date found he had to proceed warily
against this esteemed Pagan religion. Once begun,
however, the persecution continued, and from being
the persecuted, Christians from now onwards became
the persecutors, until they finally obliterated as a
‘separate religion that which had contributed to their
forms, ceremonies, and beliefs.
It was not, however, tillthe year 527 thatit was
decided when Jesus was born, and various monks
equipped with astrological learning were called in to
decide this important point. Ultimately the Em-
peror decided that 25th December, the date of the
birthof Mithra, be accepted as the date of the birth
of Jesus. Up to the year 680 no thought had been
given to the symbol of Jesus crucified on the cross.
Prior to that date veneration was accorded to the
Mithraic symbolic lamb, but from that date on-
wards it was ordained that in place of the lamb the
"figure of a man attached to a cross should be
substituted.
Our greatest authoritieson comparative religion
concur with Augustine and Eusebius in their belief
that what is called Christianity was borrowed from
contemporary or ancient religions, and that it is just
a new name for much older beliefs. Robertson in
his book Christianity and Mythology remarks as
follows :—“ Christianity we find to be wholly manu-
factured from pre—existent material within historic
62 The Rock of Truth.
times"* Sir James Frazer, O.M., F.R.S., the
greatest living authority, remarks in the Golden
Bough, that monumental work of eight volumes, as
follows :—" In respect both of doctrines and of rites
the cult of Mithra appears to have presented many
points of resemblance to Christianity. Taken all
together the coincidences of the Christian with the
Heathen festivals are too close and too numerous to
be accidental. They mark the compromise which
the Church in its hour of triumph was compelled to
make with its vanquished and yet still dangerous
rivals.”
In the past all who studied Christianity in a
logical and rational way were looked on by Christians
as subverters of the truth. It is therefore interesting
to notice the change which is taking place amongst
enlightened Christians, who are being forced by the
evidence to face the truth. Canon Streeter, in his
book The Buddha and the Christ, published last
year, quotes in support of his argument the following
saying of Newman :—~“ A great portion of what is.
generally received as Christian truth is in its rudi-'
ments, or separate parts, to be found in heathen
philosophiesand religions.’ ’
=)(= Mr. Robertson and those who think with him, such as Dr. Drews
and Professor W. B. Smith, consider that because of the num~
erous legends and myths surrounding the person of Jesus, he
was a purely mythical character, and never lived on earth.
This seems to me to be overstepping the bounds of reason, as
for every eflect there must always be a cause. Myths can gather
round an individual and teaching be attributed to him, but we-
cannot imagine this happening to one who never lived.
Mr. F. C. Conybeare, in The Historical Christ, which I have
read since writing this book, puts in a few words what I have
attempted to do throughout these pages:
“
The critical method
tries to disengage in the traditions of Jesus the true from the-
false, fact from myth, and to show how in the pagan society
(which, as it were, lifted Jesus up out of his Jewish cradle), these
myths inevitably gathered round his figure as mists thicken round.
a mountain crest."
The Christian Religion. 63
I find also in Mythic Christs and the True, by
the Rev. W. St. Clair Tisdall, M.A., D.D., that
onlyin three instances does he consider that there is-
no parallel between_Mithraismand Christianity. In
all the other numerous instances he admits a parallel.
The exceptions he takes refer to the belief of the-
Mithraists that Mithra was born of a virgin, that he
was buried in a rock tomb and rose from the dead.
In makingthese exceptions he omits to consider some»-
of the most conclusive evidence in their favour ; but
this is by the Way, as everythingelse he fully admits.
i
As to the story of the virgin birth, death, and:
resurrection of Jesus, the Christian story was doubt-
less taken from one of thenumerous legends of deified
men current at the time, and it would be incorrect
to claim that these Christian incidents were solely
taken from Mithraism. The evidence is all in favour‘
of their origin being found elsewhere.
According to Mackey’s Lexicon of Freemas-
onry, freemasons taught the doctrines of the cruci-I
fixion, atonement, and resurrection long before the
Christian era. St. Justin, one of the early Christian
fathers, argued in favour of the virgin birth, the
crucifixion, resurrection and ascension of Jesus,
because Christians claimed no more than the pagans
did for their saviours.
Many who have studied thequestion believethat.
the origin of the crucifixion of saviour god-men at.
Easter came from the crossing by the sun over the
equinoctial line at the commencement of Spring, as,
with its increased heat, vegetation flourished and the—
people were saved from starvation. The chief pagan,
festivals were held at what we now call Christmas-.
64 The Rock 0] Truth.
and Easter, the first when the sun enters the winter
«solstice and the days begin to lengthen,and the other
when it reaches the plane of the equator and the days
.are of equal length. The god—man was believed to
have been born on the day the sun commences to
_
return to give heat and life to the earth, just as it
“was believed that he died, rose again, and ascended
into Heaven, which was symbolical of the death of
winter, the return of life with spring, and the ascent
of the sun into the heavens, which culminates at
midsummer.
With regard to the virgin birth legend, this
was attributed to so many outstanding men and
_gods that it was just as common to attribute a mira-
culous birth to a great man in those days as it was
in the Christian era for a king to claim that ‘he ruled
by divine right, which claim was the rudiment of the
‘belief in a. supernatural birth. To attribute to an
-outstandingman a supernatural birthwas thegreatest
honour those who followed him could think of
bestowingon his memory. As those great ones had
supernatural births conferred on them,’ likewise they
had attributed to them in many instances supernatural
«deaths ; and so we find, as Mr. Vivian Phelips says
in The Churches and Modern Thought, that "
of all
the old world legends the death and resurrection of
.a virgin-born, or in some way divinely—born, Saviour
was the most widespread.”
As to the death and resurrection of Jesus, I
think that there is no difficulty in discovering that
‘;the story originated in Babylon, and that it is just
:3. copy, with elaborations, of the story of the trial',
death and resurrection of the god Bel, to which has-
The Christian Religion. 65
been added the details of the death, and what accom-
panied it, related of the god Prometheus.
The account of the death of the Greek God Pro-
metheus, more than 500 years before Christ, records
how he descended to earth for the sake of elevating
humanity, and after a short time on earth he was
tried and sentenced to death. He was chained to a
rock on Mount Caucasus, and through his death the
gates of Heaven were opened to all believers.
Seneca, thegreat Roman historian, and otherWriters,
record this story. At the death of Prometheus the
earth shook and the whole frame of Nature became
convulsed, the rocks were rent, the graves opened,
and the dead came out of them “
when the Saviour
gave up the ghost.” He then rose from the dead
and ascended into Heaven. The story of this god is
similar to that recorded of Jesus, and “it is doubt-
ful whether there is to be found in the Whole range
of Greek literature deeper pathos than that of the
divine woe of the god Prometheus crucified on the
Scythian Crags for his love to mortals,” says The
New American Cyclopedia. Ovid, the Roman poet,
put in verse the story of the Saviour God Esculapius,
Whose virgin birth,life and death follow much on the
same lines as the story of Jesus.
The sacrifice of a saviour—god was quite a
common belief in ancient religions and took similar
forms, all for the purpose of appeasing a Deity. At
the time of the birth and growth of the Christian
religion, the form in vogue attributed to the god—man
the desire to take the world’s sins and thus redeem .
humanity. He became the sacrifice in place of
humanity, and thus appeased the Almighty. The
E
66 The Rock of Truth.
legend of the death of Prometheus is just one of
many, and the account of the death of the Babylonian
god Bel, known to the Jews as Baal, is just another.
The Egyptiangod Osiris and theGreek god Dionysos
were believedto have had experiencessimilarto those
told about Jesus. Dionysos was termed “
The
only Begotten,” “
The Born Again,” and “
The
Saviour,” but they all received epithets similar to
those later bestowed on Jesus.
From the translation of a tablet discovered in
Babyloniait is evident thattheirgod Bel was believed
to have had experiences similar to those at a later
date attributed to Jesus. This tablet of Babylonian
origin, produced hundreds of years before the Chris-
tian era (somebelieve2,000 years), giving the record
of the Babylonian Passion Drama, when placed
alongside of thechief events recorded in the Christian
Drama, is remarkablysimilar, so much so that I shall
now record what it reveals, and give alongside the
corresponding events of the Christian Story.
BABYLONIAN LEGEND.
Be] is taken prisoner.
CHRISTIAN LEGEND.
Jesus is taken prisoner.
Bel is tried in the Hall of
Justice.
Be] is smitten.
Bel is led away to the
Mount.
With Bel are taken two
malefactors,one of whom
is released.
After Bel has gone to the
Mount the City breaks
out into tumult.
Bel’s clothes are carried
away.
Jesus is tried in the Hall of
Pilate.
Jesus is scourged.
Jesus is led away to Gol-
gotha.
With Jesus two malefactors
are led away; another,
Barabbas, is released.
At the death of Jesus the
veil of theTempleis rent :
from the graves come
forth the dead, and enter
the City.
Jesus’s robe is divided
among the soldiers.
The Christian Religion. 67
Be] goes down into the Jesus from the grave goes
Mount and disappears down into the realm of
from life. the dead.
A weeping woman seeks Mary Magdalene came
him at the gate of burial. weeping to the tomb to
seek Jesus.
Bel is brought back to life. Jesus rises from the grave-
alive.
As thisdiscovery is of comparativelyrecent date, and
has consequently received little publicity, I called on
the Curator of the Babylonian section of the British
Museum to obtain confirmation of the existence of
this tablet and its correct translation. I was told
that the particulars I have given can be correctly
considered as
“
a list of parallel instances (which was
drawn up by the late Professor Zimmern) found both
in the story of the god Bel and of the Christ. Zim-
mern deduced the incidents of the story of Bel from-.
ritual texts which seem to describe a primitive kind‘
of religious play._” This confirmation as I have
given it was received by me in writing and I have it
now beside me as I write.
Each event recorded on the tablet is believed
to have beenthename given to each act of thedrama,.
and it is not unreasonable to believe that this Baby-
lonian programme was the basis round which the
gospel writers wound the story about Jesus, each as.
we know differingas to details, but similarthroughout.
These Passion Dramas were quite common in the
East prior to the Christian era, and the one favoured
by the Jews, some authorities think, had as the
suffering god—man one called Jesus Barabbas, Barab—
has meaning “
The Son of the Father.”
A careful study of the gospel legends of the
great Christian drama had led some authorities to
68 The Rock of Truth.
believe that the story relating to Jesus of Nazareth
was written from the chief events of a Passion Play,
and this Babyloniandiscovery proves that the Chris-
tian story did not originate in Palestine. This dis-
covery certainly lends added weight to this explana-
tion of the origin of the great Christian drama,
especially as there is hardly a detail of the agony,
trial, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension, as told
about Jesus, that was not told about gods who pre-
ceded him, and those gods were believed to rise
from the dead at the time of the year we call Easter,
at the Spring Equinox, when the dead of winter has
passed. They went through similar experiences
before and after their deaths as are reported as
happening to Jesus, and in those days of old, when
only the priests could read or write, the people were
kept in memory of it all by means of this Passion
Drama. These passion dramas were continued by
Christianity, and we find them recorded in the early
days of this religion.
The special interest to us of the Babylonian
account_is that we have at last discovered the actual
programme of the drama, which confirms the con-
clusion previously reached by men who have given
the subject a life study, that the gospel story is just
thelegendof what was told in drama of othersuffering
saviour—gods. At each act prior to the drama being
enacted the priest is believed to have either read or
told the assembled throng what was about to occur
and its meaning.
In the popular pre-Christian religions of Greece,
Egypt, Asia, and, as we have seen of Babylon, the
dramatic representation of the principal episodes in
The Christian Religion. 69‘
the lives of the sufferinggods were regularlyenacted.
Herodotus tells us that this took placein Egypt, the
god being Osiris. Likewise we find the same
dramatic representation in connection with the gods.
Adonis, Attis, Mithra and Dionysos. The mytho-
logical explanationis doubtless the same, the annual
deathand resurrection of vegetationwhich was closely
connected withthe waxingand the waningof thesun.
Thus we find these beliefs translated into annual
festivals in connection with the worship of both
Vegetation Gods and Sun Gods.
The various myths attributed to other gods
evidently slowly came to centre round Jesus, and
these were added to the early Christian writings.
This also seems to have happened with the Passion .
Dramas connected with other gods, which also were
made to have reference to Jesus. A careful reading‘
of the gospel narratives withthisin mind will perhaps»
make clear much that was previously difficult to
understand.
Take each episode of the climax of the life of
Jesus, especially as related in Matthew and Mark,
and it will be realised that the narrative could easily
have had as its basis this passion play centred round
the god Bel. The theatricalcharacter of the gospel
story can be traced out in each event, and if anyone
is sufficiently interested this whole subject will be
found carefullyreasoned out by Mr. John M. Robert-
son, who was a great authority on Shakespearean
drama, in Pagan Ch-fists, where much space and
thought is devoted to each event recorded in the
gospels. When he wrote this book the Babylonian
tablet, to which I have just referred, had not been
70 The Rock of Truth.
discovered. This discovery was all thatwas necessary
to establish the reasonableness of Robertson’s argu-
ment, taken as it was from what we know occurred
in other religions, as with the actual programme of
the Babylonian passion play now before us the
probable source has been discovered of the Christian
story.
Thus we find that a supposed event, the belief
in which has had an immeasurableinfluenceon count-
Iless millions of lives, rests on natural phenomena,
namelythe annual decrease and increase of the power
«of the sun, and the consequent death and re-birth of
vegetation each year. This was translated into the
deathand resurrection of god-men. The legendssur-
rounding these events were dramatised in various
countries by different religions, and copied by Chris-
-tians in the first or second century of our era, so as
to bring their religion up to the same level in regard
to the life, death and resurrection of its founder, as
was claimed by rival cults of that age with regard
to their saviours.
The foregoing explains why nothing was re-
corded in thearchives of Rome about what thegospels
tell us happened to Jesus and why all the Roman
historians of the time failed to record it. Gibbon
could never understand why men of the high intellec-
vtual level of Seneca, Pliny, Tacitus, Plutarch, Epic-
tetus and many others could obtain no sane or sensible
statement from the Christians of the first century with
regard to their religion, and if all that the gospels
report as happening to Jesus is true, is it not extra-
ordinary that those great thinkers and writers could
never obtain this information from the Christians of
The Christian Religion. 71
their time? What a wonderful story it would have
been, what a sensation it would have caused, and
yet their writings ignore it all!
Is it not also remarkable that in spite of the
marvellous works reported as being performed by
Jesus, the Jews during his life considered him only
a blasphemer, as one who wished to upset the beliefs
of the people in the orthodox religion of his day? It
is quite contrary to all reason that they should have
considered him only as such if the gospel stories are-
true.
Even among savages one who was believed to
have the power to bring the dead back to life would
never have been made to suffer and to die. Surely
it is more rational to accept the account of Jesus as
given in the Jewish Talmud as the more probable
story. The Talmud, containing the traditional laws
of the Jews, and dating back to the second century,
gives a very different story about Jesus to what is
contained in the gospels. There the only reference
made to him is the statement that he was arrested
for blasphemy, was tried in the Jewish Court, con-
demned, stoned, and then hung on a tree, which, by
the way, agrees with what we are told in Acts 13-29
as to how he died. This is. a much more probable
story than the gospel legends, filled with marvellous
and miraculous occurrences, which no contemporary
of Jesus considered worthyto record. Let us all, as
sensible individuals, forget the mistakes of our early
training, and believethat Jesus was born in a natural
way, lived a natural life and died a martyr’s death
for his convictions. Let us relegate the miraculous
in the Christian story to its right placewiththatof the
72 The Rock of Truth.
mythologies surrounding the lives of other gods.
We now know that this is where it should be placed,
and that as regards the final drama, as recorded in
Christian mythology,of the life of the Christian God,
it is but a version in words of an earlier passion play,
incorporated into Christianity, a play which, for
centuries before Christianity was thought of, was
enacted annually throughout the East, to satisfy the
human longing for further knowledge with regard
to the hereafter, which all those early religions show
was just as strong then as it is to-day.
The study of Religion proves beyondtheshadow
of doubt that mankind in ignorance of his future, yet
instinctivelyfeeling that he persisted after death, has
been immeasurably helped by the beliefs and cere-
monies of religion. They have acted as a crutch to
him throughout his earthly pilgrimage. True, he
has been exploited by priests and religious organisa-
tions who have taken advantage of his craving for
further knowledge. On the whole, however, they
have helped to make life possible for him, as without
their aid life would have been intolerable. Round
the inherent instinct of all men and women that
they have immortal souls, and that there is a greater
power in the universe than themselves, have been
coiled superstitions which in various ways make up
the world’s different religions. In ignorance man
has practised cruelties in his attempt to placate what
he considered was a wrathful Deity. He has
imaginedthe necessity for a mediator betweenhimself
and God, and these mediators throughout the ages
have taken different forms, and been surrounded by
different ceremonies, but still the same golden thread
The Christz'an Religion. 73
runs throughit all—theinstinctivebeliefthathumanity
is destined for something more than this world has
to give. In mankind’s evolution, as he slowly
developed in intelligence, he has suffered much
throughignorance, becauseof thisone ruling passion,
this fervent desire for further knowledge of the
mysteries of life and death.
The Greek thinkers of the golden age of Rome
and Greece developed a philosophy for which the
world was not ready. They appeared like an oasis
in a desert of ignorance. Their high and pure
thoughts could not be communicated to humanity,
as it was not yet ready for them. Humanity still
required a saviour, a god—man, forms, ceremonialsand
creeds, and so Christianity developed quite naturally
out of other religions, and took the placeit was fitted
for, as the need for it was there. Mental develop-
ment has continued, however, and some of us now
foresee a more rational religion for humanity through
the only revelation which has come to us from the
other world and which proves that the after-life is
a reality,and thatwe are undoubtedlyEthericbeings;
Now that this proof positive has come so will
go slowly from the minds of mankind the belief in
crucified saviours, in god—men and all that appertains
to them, whatever may be the cult to which they,
belong. The drapings only will go, but the great
essentials, which are necessary to satisfy humanity,
are becoming more apparent than ever. Naturally,
amongst the uneducated, opposition is always
apparent, as the unthinkingalways believethatwhat
is must always be. The Egyptians -always boasted
that for ten thousand years the hand of man had
'74 The Rock of Truth.
never been allowed to touch one of the sacred monu-
ments in their temples. Orthodoxy in Egypt, just
.as in Great Britain, had ruled that God’s revelation,
as given by his authorised priests, was final and
-complete. As Egypt changed so Britain willchange,
but we need not fear the change, as a bright and
glorious dawn is succeeding the world’s night of
-ignorance.
Just as the discoveries in Babylonia and Egypt
are proving to us that Christianity is not a revealed
religion but simply a new name given to the forms,
«ceremonies, and beliefsof the ancient world, so there
is opening out before us a wealth of beauty and
thought contained in the new revelation coming to
mankind from the Etheric World. Mankind finds
he is not alonein his journeyto some unknowndestina-,
tion, that he is now in contact with those who have
made the change called death, and that theyare-now
comingbackto help him and guide him on his onward
course. With thisincreased knowledgehe can throw
away the crutch of orthodoxy,and step out relieved
from this now unnecessary encumbrance. To us
the future is bright instead of being dark, and what
was a great and awful mystery has now becomeclear,
as the result of our increased knowledge.
In our coming freedom from the superstitions
of the past we must thank not only ‘those who have
helped in openingtheway for communicationwiththe
Etheric World, and thus setting our minds at rest
with regard to our future. There are others besides
who have also helped, by increasing our knowledge
-of the past, and making us understand more clearly
that what we thought was a divine revelation is but
The Christian Religion. 75
.a continuation of the beliefs of earlier religions.
justas thediscovery of theuse of steam revolutionised
our industrial life, so did the discovery of how to read
the Babylonianand Egyptian languages revolutionise
our religious outlook. These two latter discoveries
must be looked back on as amongst the great events
of the world’s history, and theyhave been the means
of making us understand the Bible in a way that we
never could have done had these discoveries not
been made.
Sir Henry Rawlinson was responsible for the
decipherment of the old Babylonian language which
was forgotten. In 1835 he took from the Behistun
Rock near Babylon a copy of what turned out to be
a decree of King Darius written in Babylonian,
Scythian, and Persian. He made paper casts of
this inscription, and it was possible, owing to the
fact that the Persian was known, to translate the
Babylonian and the Scythian. In consequence of
this discovery, the numerous Babylonian tablets
since found have been translated, and much of what
is found in the Old and New Testaments can now
be traced to Babylon. The stories of Adam
and Eve, the Flood, the Tower of Babel, and other
events, were all current in Babylonia long before a
book of our Bible was written. They were copied
there by the Jews when in captivity. The story of
Moses being hidden in the bulrushes was obviously
taken from Babylon, as we have discovered a similar
story relating to Sargon, an early king of Babylon,
the river in his case being the Euphrates. Sargon,
by the way, was in time looked on as a God, was
accredited with a virgin birth, and most of the mirac-
76 The Rock of Truth.
ulous wonders ascribed to all the great men of the
past were likewise ascribed to him.
Just as we have learned much of Babylonian
history from the discovery of how to read their cunei-
form writing, so have we discovered much of
Egyptian history through learning how to read
Egyptian hieroglyphics. This came about through
the discovery of what is called the Rossetta stone
found at the mouth of the Nile near Rossetta, when
Napoleon invaded Egypt in 1798. It contains a
decree in honour of Ptolemyand is written in Hiero-
glyphic, Demotic and Greek. As the Greek was
known the others could be translated. These dis-
coveries throw much light on the stories in the Bible,
as both countries greatly influenced the political and
religious history of the Jews.
Likewise both countries contributed much to the
origin of Christianity. This religion was not born
from one single parent but from-many. Its rites,
symbols, ceremonials, teachings, doctrines and
legends were all derived from countries surrounding
Palestine, and the religion of each helped to make
Christianity what it became in the fourth century.
What is called Christianity was then a reservoir into
which flowed the best of all the old world religions.
The reason the best was accepted, and the worst
discarded, was becausethosewho were responsiblefor
its growthlived at a time when thatpart of the world,
in which the religion grew up, had reached a very
high state of culture. Consequently only the pure
was accepted from contemporary religions, and the
impure‘ rejected. They accepted the superstitions
because it was a superstitious age, but the high
The Christian Religion. 77
moral tone of Christianity is undoubtedly due to
the fact that it was born at a time when the wisdom
of Rome and Greece was at its height. The first
century of its life was a time of greater wisdom, and
then lived men of greater eminence, than the world
had ever previously known.
Thus Christianity,apart from the cruel laws and
impurity noticeable in Judaism, to which it is so in-
separably bound, is on a higher moral and spiritual
level than any of the other older religions. Its
morality, its teachings, and its outlook on life are
certainly higher than that of any previous religion,
due to the high level of culture prevailingin thatpart
of the world in which it took root. Both Greece
and Rome had reached the ‘highest level of thought
so far attained by humanity. It was an age when
much wisdom and a high morality were preached by
the great pagan philosophers and thinkers. Those
responsible for the preparation of the Christian docu-
ments were certainly influencedby the fact that they
lived in an age of pure philosophicthought, but they
were imbued also withmuch of the superstition of the
ignorant. Consequently their writings are but poor
‘fragments when compared with the wealth and depth
of thought and wisdom expressed in the literature of
the great pagan philosophers.
Christianitybeingborn in thisatmosphere, those
responsible for its writings were influenced by the
times in which theylived. Pagan literature is known
only to the few, as our educational system ignores it,
and from childhood upwards we are taught that all
we have and are to—day is the result of Christianity.
This is quite wrong. Cicero, Marcus Aurelius, and
78 The Rock of Truth.
Seneca, to mention only three great pagans, teach
a higher spiritual philosophy, containing higher
aspirations of virtue, toleration, and humanity, than
any otherteachers of or before their time. We ignore
the source whence sprang the high level of culture of
these times, and in ignorance we attribute to Chris-
tianity what really came from Paganism.
Unfortunately when Christianity obliterated the
old religions of Rome and Greece it also submerged
their philosophy, the place of which was taken by
creeds and dogmas, so much so, that to believe in
the Trinityand other Church dogmas was the test of
a good Christian, and not his life. The teachingof
thegreat Pagan writers and thinkerswas buried under
the dogmas of the Church, and so Europe entered
the dark ages. It emerged from them only when the
Pagan teachings were relearned in the sixteenth
century. What is called “Our Christian Civilisa-
tion ”
is therefore due to the great classical thinkers
who lived between 600 B.C. and 200 A.D.
Unfortunately, when Christianity triumphed
under Constantine, the civilised world received a set
back from which it did not recover for 1,300 years.
As Farrer, that thoughtful classical authority,says.
in his book Paganism and Christianity, “
There is
indeed no fact more patent in history than that with
the triumph of Christianity under Constantine the-
older and finer spirit of charity died out of the world,
and gave place to an intolerance and bigotry which
were its extreme antithesis, and which only in recent
years have come to be mitigated.” What a mental
and moral gulf there is between non-Christian men.
such as Seneca, Plato, Marcus Aurelius, or JPlutarch,
The Christ-icm Religion. 79*
and Athanasius, Tertullian and Jerome, to mention
only three of the earlier Christian Fathers, with their"
warped and narrow minds, writing always with the
object of compressing the human mind into their"
narrow creeds and dogmas. What a contrast there-
is betweenthehigh and noble humanitarianaspirations-
expressed by the Pagans, and the creeds and dogmas
of the Christian Church!
It is utterly false to say that the idea of the
brotherhood of man originated in the teaching of
Christianity. It. is one of the dominant ideas of’
pagan philosophybefore Christianity was thoughtof.
Marcus Aurelius rises from the common conception:
of the political community to that of the wider com-
munity of humanity with a breadth of mind that at
no time has belongedto the Church. He and others»
like him envisaged mankind in one common brother-
hood, each working for the good of humanity. It
was a primary tenet of the higher pagan faith that
every man, inasmuch as he shared the spirit of God,
should consider himself as a Son of God, and that
it therefore behoved him to conduct himself in a.
manner befitting such a relationship, and to regard
all his fellow men as brethren by virtue of their
belonging to the same family as himself. What a
contrast between the sublime writings and thoughts
of the Great Pagans, and the cruelties, wars, perse-
cutions, and numberless horrors, which were the
outcome of Christianity,as the result of its followers’
belief that it was the only true religion, and that all
must believe in it or everlastinglyperish.
The general belief held by most people that
Christianity was responsible for raising themoral and
80 The Rock of Truth.
spiritual level of the Roman world is a pious illusion
for which there is not a particle of evidence. By the
fifth century we find all the schools of philosophy
closed, all education and learning banned, all the
worst of paganismcontinuing,and thebestobliterated,
and Europe in a night of intense darkness, which
lasted for more than a thousand years. Daylight
came only when people became intelligent enough
to doubt the Christian story and the claims of the
Christian religion, and from that date the less they
have been believedthe better and happier has become
the world.
Much teachingattributed to Jesus is considered
by many to be peculiar to him and him only, and
it is supposed that he was the first to teach love,
gentleness, the love of God, and other virtues. This
is quite wrong, thoughthis false way of regarding his
teaching is encouraged by the Church, which claims
that he originated all these injunctions. I cannot
count the number of sermons I have heard upholding
this falsehood.
/Long before the time of Jesus there were
teahhers who taught everythingthat has been attri-
buted to him, and there is nothingof value attributed
to him that was not said before his time. “
Return
good for evil and overcome anger with love,” and
“he that would cherish me let him go and cherish
his sick comrade,” were sayings of Buddha.
“
D_<_)__ynto others as you would that they should
do unto you” was said by Cgpfugius. "Whg -
ever thou art in doubt as to whether an action
is good or bad abstain from it” was said by
Zoroaster a thousand years before Christ. “
One
r"‘--*""“""‘\
The Christian Religion. 81
who is injured ought not to return the injury,
for on no account can it be right to do an injustice,
and it is not right to return an injury or to do any
evilto any man, however much we may have suffered
from him” was said by S_ggr_ates 450 years before
Chri§t_._ “
Let us not listerTtB'thosewho thinkthat
we ought to be angry with our enemies, and who
believethis to be great and manly. Nothingis more
praiseworthy, nothing so clearly shows a great and
noble soul, as clemencyand readiness to forgive” was
said by Ci before Christ, “If a man
strike thee and in striking thee drop his staff, pick
it up and hand it to him again ”
was said by Krishna
centurie§'beg>re_]es;1_1‘sA_wagsborn. Similar teachifigs
could be quoted‘ from numerous sources in great
numbers, attributed to men who lived hundreds of
years before Jesus was born. LThe immortality of
the soul was taught by the Hindus, Egyptians,
Greeks and Romans, and many others.) It is one of
the earliest beliefs and is found in every religion.
~fla_1_:4_i_s_,t_e_r_rn_ed “
The Lord’s Prayer” origin-
ated in Babylon al)_()__g:t_f£_Q(_)_(_),;3_.g;.,the tablet on which
is written a prayer resemblingit, being discovered in
1882. It is one of theoldest Jewish prayers, repeated
for long by them in the Chaldaic language, they
having learned it in Babylon during their captivity.
The high morality and ethical teachingsattributed to
Jesus can all be found in many pre—Christian writings,
such as the Bhagavat Gita, t e sacred book of lhdia,
k.......
.V——/-——\
. , . “'—’.‘~~-—
and in the writings of Seneca, Ovid, Aristotle, Epic-
tetus, Plato, adcffnanyotherpsf fir”-
As Thomas Whittaker in his able work, The
Origins of Chiistianity,trulyremarks,‘
‘It is a remark-
F
82 The Rock of Truth.
able factthatChristianity,said to have been revealed,
has had to recur for every serious effort to find in
theuniverse themanifestationsof a rational and moral
order, to thinkers who never pretended to have
obtained what they might offer in this direction by
anythingbut the exercise of their own reason.”
Those who have made a study of the origin of
Christian literature are of the opinion thatthe various
events and sayings recorded in the gospels can all be
traced to earlier origins than the events to which
theyrefer. The four gospels are therefore the result
of the collation of ancient stories and traditions pre-
valent in the East at the time they were Written.
From a careful study of the four Gospel narra-
tives, from the knowledge we now possess of the
religious beliefs prevalent in the East 1,900 years
ago, and from what We now know of the history of
the Roman Empire at that time, it is possible to
follow up quite a natural event right through its
various developments.
I would divide these into four stages, thus :—
First Stage : Natural birthof Jesus some years
prior to 4 B.C., as Herod died in that year. In his
youthhe worked withhis father. He was religiously
inclined, and either joined the Essene Brotherhood
or studied their beliefs, living with them probably
until he was about 30 years of age. He then went
out as a teacher and healer, going from placeto place
over a period of less than two years.
His strong psychic power made him able to heal -
the sick. He was perhaps clairvoyant and clair-
audient, and so could speak with some authorityof
the Etheric World, which to him at times might
W‘
7
OM he
The Christian Religion. 83
become a reality. He attracted followers by the
realistic way in which he could present his views, and’
his high ethicalteachingmade him revered by all who
knew him. Maybe he was controlled at times by
higher intelligences in the Etheric World and was-
able to impress the people by his gift‘ of speech.
He incurred the anger of the authoritiesby his
outspoken remarks on the orthodox Church and‘
priests of his day. This led to his martyrdom, as
it has led to the martyrdom of many reformers both
before and after him. Quite possibly he was seen‘
after his death by some of his followers. Owing to
our present—day knowledge of psychic matters what
seemed miraculous in thosedays, namely,his healing
power, his other psychic gifts, and his beingseen in
his etheric body after death, can now be related to
natural laws. What seemed unique then is to—day
recognised as of more or less common occurrence.
Second Stage : Paul comes on the scene,
believeshe has had a vision of Jesus, also a message,
and with his great personality confirms the dis~
heartened band of Jews in the belief that Jesus:
was the Messiah foretold by the prophets. As it was,
believed that the world was about to com“e‘\t5ian"’
end, nothing of the doings or sayings of Jesus was,
put in writing, and as time went on these
were handed down from father to son, with the
"/«tendencyalways to exaggerate and to emphasise the
0/1” Mgxiraculous. Paul went about preachingthismessage
f hope, and as the adherents of this new sect grew‘
wrote them letters.
The fall of Jerusalem in 70 A.D. helped to con-
solidate the new cult, as many in despair, as the
84 The Rock of Truth.
result of the break up of Judaism, joined the new
sect, being encouraged by its belief that the Messiah
would soon reincarnateto restore his kingdom. The
incubation period of the new sect dates most likely
from this date until the end of the first century.
Eitherjust before or just after the fall of Jerusa-
lem began to appear, perhaps in Antioch, a narrative
of this much talked of Jesus, giving a description of
his simple life, sayings, and doings, and incorporating
much borrowed from Essene sources. Other narra-
tives followed, each tendingto emphasisethe miracu-
lous. A diary of the Acts of the Apostles also
appears relating what is claimed to be the deeds of
the apostles.
The new sect is now known by the name of
Christian, and Jesus to many has definitely become
the Messiah, who had fulfilled all the prophecies of
old. Slowlythebeliefchanged from regarding Jesus
as an earthlydeliverer to that of a spiritual mediator.
Thus this doctrine, attributed to Paul, took root, and
the way was prepared for what was to become
orthodox Christianity in the fourth century.
Third Stage : The new sect gets so strong that
its leaders becomeambitious, imbued by the desire to
succeed to the theocratic powers of the Jewish hier-
archy and found a world religion. Other sects with
whom they are in contact claim their founders to be
divine, as havinghad miraculousbirths,andthatmirac-
ulous events had occurred at theirdeaths. Gradually
what was attributed to other religious founders or
deities was attributed to Jesus, so that by the second
century after his death he was looked on by some as
divine, but by others as a teacher only. Numerous
The Christian Religion. 85
writings by this time are in existence, some em-
phasising this divine aspect, others entirely ignoring
it, and everyone differing as regards facts. It is
considered by some that many of the doctrines attri-
buted to Paul are of a much later date than his time,
and thatto him like Jesus was attributed sayings and
doings, so as to give the authorityof his name to the
doctrines of the Church of the time.*
Fourth Stage : The last stage comes when this
sect attracts the attention of Imperial Rome, and
Constantine decrees that it is to become the State
religion of the future, thus displacing Mithraism
which had been the State religion of Rome for the
previous 200 years. From the time of the Council
of Nicaea onwards the consolidation of Christianity
into an organised religion is rapid. As it had become
the new State religion then it must not be inferior to-
its rival Mithraism which it had superseded. Four‘
gospels in which the miraculous is emphasised are
chosen out of the many, and then and later further
miraculous incidents are added.
Biblical scholars can now easily trace how the
early records have been added to and how what were
originally simple records of a simple life became
augmented with miraculous events. Thus, a life
which was in every Way human became embellished
for the purpose of making it appear divine.
Some of the various letters which were attri-
buted to the apostles also came to rank as divine
documents along with the four gospels, but they,like
the gospels, had been or were altered from time to
time to suit the growing belief in the miraculous.
>)# A very interesting book on this subject has recently been published
entitled Was St. Paul right or Christ? by Hamilton McGregor.
-86 The Rock of Truth.
This sect had now becomea strong organisation,
and in taking the place of the old Mithraic religion
it incorporatedin its creed, dogmas, and doctrines the
mystic beliefs and rites of the older religion, but as
the gospels and epistles had been written prior to
this absorption, these added beliefs and ceremonials
were absent in the gospels and epistles of that time.
This omission was so obvious to the Church authori-
ties thatinterpolations and additions were made from
time to time and these are well known to all New
Testament scholars.
For instance, the only reference to the Trinity
in the Bible occurs in the 1st Epistle of St. John, 5th
chapter, 7th verse. This reference is not found in
any Greek manuscript, as the Doctrine of the Trinity
was not part of the Church’s teaching until it was
incorporated into Christianity at the Council of
Nicaea. Consequentlythisverse is now omitted from
-the Revised Version of the Bible which was published
-in 1881.
In the Revised Version of the New Testament
-there is no reference whatever to the Trinity,and the
Church has_1£>t a scrap of authorityfor claimir_1g_TT_l:a_t_
Jesgs isGog and__paf:_of Gig,and the;theytogether
with the Holy Gho_s_t_rie1_kjiup one The in-
rtelligent leaders of the Church to-day know this, but
in spite of the fact that they have not a particle of
evidence to produce to justify the preaching of this
-doctrine, theycontinue Sundayafter Sunday deluding
-the people and making them think that they have
divine authorityfor this assertion. Never a Sunday
passes but the clergy, of the Anglican and Roman
Churches especially, repeat at various times through-
The Christian Religion. 87
out the service the phrase in one form or another,
"
In the Name of God the Father, God the Son,
and God the Holy Ghost.” If theyare in the least
intelligent they must know full well that this funda-
mental doctrine of Christianity, on which the whole
edifice of superstition is built, has no justification
whatever, and that the doctrine of the Trinityis an
ancient belief,which can be traced backfor thousands
of years into the dim and misty past. Many other
instances could be given of what is now part of Chris-
tianity, but was quite unknown as such to the original
writers of the gospels; but this is all that space
permits.*
As the Bible has played and still plays such a
large part in Protestant Christianity this chapter
would not be complete without some consideration of
its origin, and how it has come to us in its present
£o1=m. This beingso, I shall now give a short history
of what Christians call
THE HOLY BIBLE.
I have calculated that during my life I have
listened to at least two thousand sermons, but I do
not rememberhearing a parson on any occasion ever
refer to the origin of the Christian religion. Neither
can I rememberever hearinga parson tell of theorigin
of the Holy Bible. Our religious teachers ignore
origins for the very obvious reason that when we
>)(= Anyone wishing to pursue this subject further should read Christianity
in the Light of Modem Knowledge, especially the able contribu-
tion by Dr. Gilbert Murray (Professor of Greek at Oxford Univer-
sity), which shows clearly how Christianity developed out of the
beliefs of the superstitious and ignorant cults which abounded in
the countries surrounding Palestine 1,900 years ago, all having
their crucified Saviour-Gods and beliefs similar to what gathered
round the simple teachings of Jesus, which medley of difierent
beliefs came to be known as Christianity.
88 The Rock of Truth.
begin to look into the question of the origin of Chris-
tianity, or the origin of the books of the Bible, we
find that the Church’s claims for these have no
foundation whatever. As I could therefore get
no information on this subject from our official
religious teachers, I have studied the subject for over
thirtyyears and have found thatthe claims and asser-
tions theymake for Christianityhave no basis and are
quite untrue. It might here be said by some :
‘ ‘
Why
worry about an old book, or why worry about what
theparson says ?' No intelligent person to-day takes a
parson seriously.” This is to some extent true, but
at the same time there are many people who still
look on the Bible as their sheet anchor and as their
guide to another life, even as they still look on the
parson as their one and only source of information
as to the after-life. Besides this, there are still
many people who attend Church regularly, who
go throughthe service and accept it withoutquestion
or doubt. The Church has its hold over the people
of to-day solely because the average individual
accepts everythingthatis told him and does not think
for himself. .
On the other hand there are a large number,
and an increasing number, who are so dissatisfied
with the Church and its teachings that they have
ceased to attend divine service, preferring to believe
nothing rather than something which outrages their
reason. An increasing number are now attending
I
Spiritualist services, which appeal more strongly to
their reason and conscience.
In the old days everyone Went to church
regularly and accepted the words of the parson as if
The Christian Religion. 89'-
he were a divinely inspired authority as to how
we should live in this world, and what we must do-
to reach the next. To-day, however, this is not so,
and few intelligent people would thinkof making the
parson their confidant with regard to their religious
beliefs, for the simple reason that the average
individual realises that a parson is just a cog in a
wheel, that he has been taught certain theological
maxims, which he has acceptedwithoutthinking,and
that his business is to try to keep the old beliefs alive
as long as possible, and discourage any intelligent
enquiry into their foundations.
I do not wish it to be thought that I am other
than on the best of terms with parsons of enlightened
minds. With these I have much in common, and
some of my best friends are_ parsons, though I regret
that they do not preach from the pulpit in the same
way as they speak to me out of it. There are some
who believethatif the Church would honestlyfacethe
facts with which religion is concerned, it would con—
cede that Spiritualismis the truth and must ultimately‘
prevail.
When, however, I condemn the clergy it is to
themajoritythatI refer, and theorganisationto which
they belong. I cannot but feel that the minority, if
theyput thetruthfirst, would help forward thecoming
day, whereas theyare content to do nothingbut wait
till their congregations are ready for the new revela—-
tion, instead of feeling that their duty is to preach
the truth, and the truth only.
It is not for the pew to lead the pulpit, but the
reverse, and except for the very few who make a
stand for truth, the standard of intellectual honesty
‘90
in
The Rock of Truth.
.amongst the clergy is by no means high. They
seem quite content to jog along and follow their
daily routine without the consciousness that their
responsibilityis a great one and that their first duty
is to tell the truth, no matter whether theyoffend the
.more ignorant members of their congregation or not.
I am one of the first to admire the un-
selfish social work of many clergy in the slums and
-elsewhere, but these activities are quite apart from
those with which this book is concerned. Many
.others besides the clergy of the orthodox faith are
engaged in missions to the poor, Spiritualists, Uni—
tarians, Freethinkers, and others being amongst
them. It is not the social side of the Church’s work
that this book attacks, but orthodox Christianity as
preached from nearly every pulpit in Christendom,
.and it is this which affects the great majority of
.the people.
If I were not able to put before the people a
better religion, a truer religion, and a greater
religion for them to observe and follow, I would not
trouble to attack what is false, as it gives a certain
measure of comfort to many. Spiritualism, however,
is an infinitelygreater help to us in our lives and also
-in our deaths than the old faiths which satisfied our
ancestors. Mywish is not to knock down and destroy.
My aim is to build a nobler edifice, but before this
edifice can be built decayingrubbish about its founda-
tions must be cleared away.
Hundreds of tl;Lo_usands of men‘ and women have
wastecLtheir li_v_es studying the B_i_ble, tryinggtfgnake
all_its contradjgtions harmonise, tryiggTEfind’out
what exactlywas God’s scheme of salvation, a subje£:£__
The Christian Religion. 91
on which so many disagreed. They have Wasted
theiggtimetrying to explainits cruegies, iabomigzgatgioxns
and absurdiities, trying to [justify every crime, trying
to turn a
_God of vengeance and ir1j_ustice into a God
of L939, All this tim‘e—lEs_Be-en wasted on docu-
.ments of no historical value whatever. If they had
-spent theirtime in an intelligent way trying to discover
the origin of the books of the Bible, who wrote them,
and when theywere written, it would have been more
to their advantage.
If they had spent their time studying the
history of the times in which the various boolis
were written, they would have discovered that those
books as a foundationfor religious faithdo not deserve
any serious consideration, and thatit would have been
much better to spend their time studying the Book
of Nature, the real Bible, or the works of the great
thinkers and philosophers of the past.
To very many, therefore, the Bible and the
Christian Faith are a continual stumbling block to
their acceptance of Spiritualism, the name given
to the New Revelation. They are tied to the
tradition of the past, and quote texts from some
ancient Biblical book as if that settled every-
thing. Many also believethat all thatcan be known
of this life and the next is already known, that it has
been revealed to us only in the Holy Scriptures, and
that nothing beyond this revelation has ever been
given to mankind. They hold the view that revela-
tion stopped when the writer of the Book of Revela-
tion finished the last Word. They believe that God
has been silent from that time onwards, and that the
Holy Bible contains everythingman needs to know
I
92 The Rock of Truth.
and ought to know with regard to his life here and
hereafter.
Though some will read this book who are
sufficientlyenlightened to realise that even to discuss
the unreliabilityof the Holy Scriptures is a waste of
time, as it is so self—evident, yet there are doubtless
many who have never given thematter a thoughtand
have always accepted what they have been told.
Consequently, this attitude of mind makes them un-
receptive of the new truths which are coming through
to this earth from the Etheric World, to which we
shall all pass in time. Without, therefore, wishing
to weary anyone by the recital of what is so obvious
to many, let us consider somethingof the origin and
history of What theclergy each Sundayrefer to, either
as the “
Word of God ”
or the "
Holy Scriptures.”
Each Christian Church has in it a Bible, and for this
reason alone it is not out of place to -"iionsider some-
thingmore about this book than is ever told to con-
gregations from the pulpit. ~.
The Bible is made up of two sections, one theOld
Testament and the other the New Testament. The
origins of these two sections are very different, and
it was not untilthe 6th century thattheywere brought
together. It was not until the year 405 that Jerome
translated the Old Testament from the Hebrew, and
the Old Testamentas we know it to-day was not even
then accepted among the Jews. Since that date
certain books were added and certain books were left
out, but no one can say on what basis or by what
authoritythe books in the Old Testamentas we now
know it were retained. However, Jerome made a
start by translating the writings now known as the
The Christian Religion. 93
Old Testament, but it was not until the 9th century
of the Christian era thatwe find the Bible in the shape
and form approximatingour present Bible, though it
contained a numberof books omitted at the Reforma-
tion. But let us go back to the beginning.
After two hundred years of slavery a tribe as
ignorant and cruel as savages, just escaped from
bondage under the rulers of Egypt, found its way
into what is now called Palestineunder a leader called
Moses. They were poor and wretched, withoutany
education and knowledge of the arts, but with
doubtless some of the mystical knowledge derived
from their time in the Land of the Nile. Their
leader Moses, who we are told had been raised in
the family of Pharoah, was doubtless more learned
than the others, as he must have received as much
education as it was possible to give anyone in those
ignorant times. Moses was a great leader, and un-
fortunatelydied before his people settled in what they
called the Promised Land. He was followed by
Joshua, and graduallythis wanderingtribeconquered
and took possession of what is to—day known as
Palestine. After a time kings began to reign over
them, but it is all a very chequered story. One after
another of the kings did evil in the sight of the Lord,
and the bad kings were succeeded sometimes by good
and sometimesbyworse. The surroundingtribeswere
continually pressing in on them, and wars, famines,
and pestilences were frequent occurrences, but the
climax came when this people was at last conquered
K
by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, in 586 B.C.,
who took them into captivity and subjected them to
many indignities.
94 The Rock of Truth.
At last after many vicissitudes theyregained their
land about 74 years later, and their history is now
obtained from the writings of various men who went *
under the name of prophets or seers. It is a very
incomplete history, in which there are many gaps,
and the last the Bible has to tell of themare theevents.
that took place about the year 397 before the birth
of Christ. They were conquered later by the
Romans in 63 B.c. and kept in bondage, theirmiseries
being relieved only by their belief that the Messiah,
promised of old, would come on earth and become-
thenation’sleader in drivingout thehated conquerors.
The New Testament recording the birth, life and-
death of Jesus, and the letters about him attributed
to some of his followers, and a record of some of their-
doings after his death, complete the Bible story.
The Children of Israel made certain laws, and
their seers recorded how sinful the people were from
time to time, and these records were contained in
what they called the Book of the Law, this book
being kept in the Holy of Holies of the Temple.
The time came when thistemplewas burned, and with
it this Book of the Law. Then there arose, on the
return of the Jews from captivity in Babylon, Esdras,
who believedthathe had instructions from God to re--
write the Book of the Law. All this is told in the-
book of Esdras, which at the time of the writing of"
thetext ‘
‘All scripture is given by inspirationof God ’ "
was part of the Jewish scripture, so what he says.
should have as much weight as anythingelse in the-
Scriptures. Esdras had just returned from captivity
in Babylon, and he was Well aware of the Babylonian
stories of Adam and Eve, of the fall of man, of the-
The Christian Religion. 95
Tower of Babel, and the Flood. He was also aware
of their laws, and he set out to write a new Book of"
the Law on the basis of all the knowledge"he had"
acquired in Babylonia. Thus it does not astonish us.
to find that the Babylonian accounts of the events
mentioned, and the Biblicalaccounts, correspondwith-
one another,and thatmany of the Jewish laws corres-
pond with those of Babylonia.
For instance, the Sabbath, known in Babylonia
as Sabatu, was the Babylonian day of rest which
occurred on every seventh day, and this was incor-
porated into the Jewish law. The only reason the-
Sabbathwas held sacred was becausethe Babylonians
believed that their God ended the wbrk of creating‘
the earth on the seventhday, and rested on thatday.
Because of this Babyloniansuperstition, which Chris-
tian count/rlies received through the Jews, all true
i
Christians cease from labour, not on the Sabbath the
last day of the week, but on the day following,namely
on Sunday the first day of the week, considering it a
holy day, and many laws were made making it an—
offence to live a sensible and rational life on thatday.
Fortunately, the miserable Sabbath which some of’
us remember‘has passed into oblivion, but it is unlikely
that those who experienced it will ever forget it I
We find nothing about the Sabbath in those-
books of the Bible known as Judges, Joshua, Samuel,
Kings, or Chronicles, nor in Job, Esther, the Song’
of Solomon, or Ecclesiastes, but only in the earlier‘
books of the Bible written by Esdras after his return-
from Babylon, and in the Prophets. What Esdras-
wrote was probablywritten on the skins of beastsand:
placed in the Temple.
96 The Rock of Truth.
The Jews were then again conquered by the
Romans under Titus in the year 70 A.D. ,
the Temple
was destroyed, and at the request of Josephus the
Jewish Book of the Law was sent to the Emperor
Vespasian at Rome and it has never been seen since.
There was, however, what was claimed as a
translationof it called the Septuagintmade by seventy
scribes, but it was a translation of the Law only,
the other books following later. These were all
burned in the Bruchium library forty—seven years
before the Christian era. The only other so-called
copy, known as the Samaritan Roll, is considered of
no value. Have we to-day a true copy of the old
Book of the Law? No, it is certain we have not, and
nobody knows how many variations from the
original there are in our Old Testament. The
oldest manuscript in Hebrew in existence was written
in the 10thcentury of the Christian era, and theoldest
Greek copy was made in the 5th century. Even if
‘the original was inspired by God, no one knows how
much has been added to or omitted from our present
Old Testament and how much represents the script
of the original writers. N0 one knows anything
about the original ; all that is known is that there is
no basis whatever to found the belief that our
Old Testament truly represents the original, and
-certainly there is no justificationwhatever to call this
doubtful copy of very many copies the “
Word of
God” as is continuallybeingdone by our clergy, who
would never do so if they set the truth before their
own self-interests.
Many chapters in the Old Testament are in-
complete and parts of the different books are written
The Christian Religion. 97
in practicallythe same words. Neither do Leviticus
and Numbers agree as to facts or teaching.
Nothing is said about the after-life. Wherein,
then, lies the inspiration? Why attribute the Bible
to God with all its falsehoods, cruelties, and crude
teaching? To do so is blasphemy, and this blas-
phemy is uttered every Sunday from thousands of
lips speaking from Christian pulpits, by those who
claim to be the divinely appointed leaders of the
people in all things appertaining to their souls.
Spiritualists must do all theycan to save the reputa-
tion of the Almighty from such an outrage.
What is termed to—day the Holy Bible is
a compilation of certain of the books known as
the Book of the Law with others added for some un-
known reason, and to these again were added certain
documents chosen at the Council of Carthage. The
bringing of the Jewish Book of the Law and the
Christian documents together in the 6th century of
the Christian era was the beginningof what became
known as the Bible, which in original Greek means
the sacred book. The Jewish book became known
under the name of the Old Testament, and the Chris-
tian under the name of the New Testament. This
book has beenlooked on since theReformationas holy
and inspired by God, as word for word true, and as
’man’s only guide to Heaven, and only way to salva-
tion. During the time before the Reformation it
was never read by the people and only known to the
priests and monks. In fact the people knew nothing
about its contents. The Church and the priests only
were looked on with awe and reverence by the
ignorant masses.
G
98 The Rock of Truth.
Between the years 1517 and 1545 some, how-
ever, were intelligent enough to throw over the so-
called InfallibleChurch and strike out for themselves.
They went under the name of Protestants because
they protested against the practices of the corrupt
Church. Those who became Protestants no longer
venerated a Church and instead theyworshipped the
Holy Bible. Claims of so fantastic a nature were
made for this book that it is difficult, in these more
enlightened days, to understand how ever theycould
have been believed.
The invention of printing helped to circulate the
Bible. It came to be read more and more, and as
it was the only book known by the masses it is hardly
to be wondered at that the claims made for it were
believed by the people of those ignorant times.
Every word in it was accepted, every word in it was
believedto have been given direct from God to man,
and the awful crime of blasphemy was invented to
prevent the authenticityof this book from being too
closely enquired into. Anyone Who doubted this
book’s authoritywas cast into prison and tortured.
So time went on. Gradually,as people became
more and more intelligent, it came to be realised that
the book contained mistakes and mis—statements, and
as people became more civilised theybegan to realise
that many of its passages must have been written by,
depraved and cruel men. The more the Bible has
been studied in an intelligent and unbiased way, the
more has it become apparent that the book is.
a collection of documents written at various times by
different people who were just a little more intelligent
thantheir contemporaries. No one knows who wrote
The Christian Religion. 99‘
any of the books of the Bible, no one knows when or
how they were written, no one is reported as ever-
having seen or heard of anybody who has ever seen:
an originalof any of thebooksof theBible. We know,
however, that the many existing copies differ greatly
from one another, as thetranscribersadded What they
thought should be put in, and left out what they,‘
thought should be omitted. The numerous inter-
polations in the New Testament were put in by
scribes at a time when it was not considered inspired,
and thus the most outrageous liberties were taken
for several hundreds of years. We are, therefore,
on safe ground in saying that not one of the books.
of the Bible remains to—day in its original form.
From out of this Welter of confusion and ignor-
ance has grown the Bible, and it was not until the»
time when printing was invented thatit beganto take-
concrete shape and form. Since the time when the-
Authorised Version of Iames 1st of England was.
produced little alteration has taken place in it, as
much care was exercised in preserving the text, but.
before that date, as I say, it is well known that every’
possible liberty was taken with its contents by"
monkish scribes.
As time went on it became evident that the-
Authorised Version was far from correct, so in 1881
a new Revised Version was produced, and those re-
sponsible for this new version stated that they had:
discovered 36,191 mistakes in the old version. We‘
now know thatif a new version were published to—day
the alterations which would have to be made would
probably be equally striking. The revised version
should have beenthedeathblow to theChurch’s claim
100 The Rock 0/ Truth.
for the infallibilityof the Bible, but it still makes
this claim, and it has the support of many foolish
people who quote its texts to prove their theories.
These people read it without thinking. When they
open their Bible they close their reason, yet if they
will consult the Encyclopxdia Biblica they will find
that the article in it dealing with the Resurrection
points out that in the various gospel stories of this
event there are twenty-two contradictions of a most
serious character. Why should anyone be asked to
believein an event recorded in such a way, and why
does the Church on this evidence claim the Resur-
rection of Jesus to be the fundamental truth of
Christianity3’
This is of necessity a very brief record of the
history of what Christians call God’s chosen people,
and of the life and teachingof Jesus and his disciples.
From this mass of contradiction, born in an ignorant
past, what is called theChristian Faithhas developed.
It is still claimed that we are a Christian people and
indebted to Christianity for all the progress we have
made, but there is still a vast difference of opinion
as to what Christianity really is. This has been dis-
cussed and fought over for many centuries and many
sects have arisen owing to the many differences of
opinion. It is difficult to find out exactlywhat every
different sect believes, but generally speaking they
are in agreementmore or less as regards thefollowing
tenets :—
That there is a personal God who created the
earth and the stars ; thathe created man and woman
who were tempted of the devil, and in consequence
fell from the high state in which he had created them.
The Christian Religion. 101
Mankind became more and more wicked until, God's
patience having been exhausted, he drowned every
living person with the exception of eight people.
Afterwards he selected from their descendants
Abraham, and through him the Jewish people. He
gave this people laws and tried to govern them and
make them good. He wrought numerous miracles,
he inspired men to write the Bible, and in the fullness
of time, it having been found impossible to reform
mankind, God came upon the earth as a child born
of the Virgin Mary. He lived in Palestine where-
he preached for about two years. He went from
place to place teaching and preaching, occasionally
raising the dead, curing the blind and the halt, and’
healing the diseased. Ultimately he was crucified
because God had told the Jews that theywere to kill
anyone who claimed to be God. Consequently,God
was killed as a result of his own laws, and, in cruci-
fying Jesus, the Jews only did what God told them
to do.
Christians agree, however, that as a result
of God being thus crucified, he took away the
sins of all who had faith in him ; that ‘he
was raised from the dead, ascending bodily into
Heaven where he is now making intercession for all
who believe in him ; that he will forgive the sins of
believers, and that those who do not believe in him
willbeconsignedto torment. Further, thatthisGocl
is reallythreeGods and thatJesus is one of thethree ;
three Gods, yet he is only one ; and so the mystery
of the Trinityhas to be added to the other Christian
beliefs already noted. Lastly, there are two sacra-
ments, one of baptismfor all young children,although
102 The Rock of Truth.
nothingis said about this in the Old or New Testa-
ment, in which only adult baptism is taught, and that
of the last supper, or what is commonly called Holy
Communion, a service of commemoration of the
death of Jesus. Some hold that the bread and wine
.at this ceremony are turned into his body and blood,
.and others hold that this doctrine is blasphemy.
This is roughlya synopsis of theChristianreligion,
and I cannot be far wrong, as the Bishops of the
Church of Englandonly a few years ago emphasised
by a resolution that Christianity was contained in the
creeds and doctrines of the Church. I have been
told, however, that few to-day believe in the
Adam and Eve story, and that it is accepted that
we are the products of a slow and continuous evolu-
tion. Granted that this be so it must knock away
the foundation stone from the entire fabric of Chris-
-tianity. Paul, Christians believe, said quite clearly,
“As in Adam all die so in Christ shall all be made
alive.” If you do away with Adam you must do
away with Jesus as a saviour, and so it comes about
‘that Jesus by many is now regarded merely
as an example, one to follow, though there are still
-some who cling to the old orthodox view, because
they see that to give up Adam means the giving up
of Jesus as their saviour.
What I am trying to show is thatthereis no basis
whatever for the creeds and dogmas of the Church.
They are all man-made thingsand must perish with
other man-made things. There is nothing divine
about them, there is not a spark of divine inspiration
in one single text or creed or in one single dogma
«of the Christian Church. Doubtless these fictions
The Christian Religion. 103
have acted as crutches in thepast to many weary souls
who have found much comfort and consolation in the
teachings of the Church, but against that it must be
admitted thattheyhave been the cause of numberless
crimes and barbarities. The history of the Christian
'-Church is stained with the blood of the martyrs.
T
I readily admit that millions have received
comfort from the Christian religion. The name of
Jesus has given consolation and comfort to countless
multitudes, and the Bible has been a source of
strength to untold numbers. Millions have entered
the valley of the shadow of death with his name on
their lips, to their comfort and joy. His gospel has
been carried to the ends of the earth by men and
women who have sacrificed much to spread his
teaching. What, however, is true of Christianity is
true also of other faiths, and all this in no way alters
the fact that all the comfort and self-sacrifice Chris-
tianity has occasioned has no historic basis whatever,
and as we grow more intelligent the comfort orthodox
religion brings must decrease until it ultimately dis-
appears altogether.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF FAITH.
The foregoing is a brief history of the founda-
tions on which the Church has built its edifice of
-creeds and dogmas. We shall now consider what
the consequences have been. It will now be under-
-stood thatafter Constantine adopted Christianity as a
state religion much of the Mithraic worship of
Rome was incorporated into the Church’s ritual.
'Any one visiting St. Peter’s in Rome or any other
Roman Catholic Church, and taking along with him
104 The Rock of Truth.
Lord Lytton’s Last days of Pompeii, in which
there is given a most interesting description of what
took placein pre-Christian days in a Roman Temple,
will find many similaritiesbetweenthe Christian ritual
and that observed by the pagans of Rome.
The Christian Church, backed by the authority
of Imperial Rome, grew and flourished. When the
Roman conquerors went out to conquer, the con-
quered nations were butchered into acceptance of the
new religion, until the time came when Christianity
had completecontrol over thegreater part of Europe.
Then set in what is now known as the Dark Ages,
when in Europe nobody thought of anything but
churches, altars and relics, besides their ordinary
occupations, husbandry and fighting.
Europe, after the fall of the Roman Empire,
was submerged in a sea of barbarism, and due
acknowledgmentmust be given to the work of the
early monks who kept themselves apart from the tur-
bulence of the times. What civilisation there was in
those days, and it was very slight, could be found in
the monasteries throughout Europe. Monastic life
in all parts of the world had this advantage in those
days, thatthemonasterieswere holyground,and those
inside them were safe from devastation. The Chris-
tian Church took its idea of monastic life from Budd-
hism, and in the early days the copyingand illumina-
ting of the Scriptures took up much of the
monks’ time. The monks were just a little more
intelligent than their neighbours, and until they
became corrupt they did what healing and teaching
theycould. It is difficult to imaginetheignorance of
those days, or the depth to which men’s minds had
The Christian Religion. 105
fallen from the heights reached at the zenith of the
greatness of Rome and Greece. Barbarism was
rife everywhere; mentally Christendom was in the
darkness of a night of dense superstition.
To relieve this monotony a ripple came over the
stagnant waste withthe advent of Mohammed in 622,
and later in the attempt to free the Holy Land from
the Turksin 1095. Europe rose as a man to free the
Holy Land from the infidel. After two hundred
years the Christians were driven out and nothingwas
achieved by this fruitless enterprise.
The history of the Crusades is the story of
cruelty, treachery, and misery. Whichever side
obtained the upper hand, the consequences were the
same. From a Christian point of view, it is one of
the blackest periods in that religion's history, and is
just one record of massacre, breaking of faith and
treachery from beginning to end. Crosses and
hymn—singing, priests and prayers, treachery and
cruelty, all combined, is the story of the Crusades in
brief, and it is only one of many similar episodes in"
the history of the Christian Church.
Christianity for two hundred years turned
Europe into a madhouse, and this insane desire to
free the Holy Land from the Infidel caused untold
misery, suffering and loss. Had it been confined to
adults only it would have been bad enough, but the
Church conceived the insane idea that failure was
caused because the Crusaders were not innocent"
enough. Consequently it encouraged the wicked
idea of sending out children to fight the infidel, and
50,000 boys and girls of tender age were gathered
togetherand dispatched to the Holy Land. Few, if
106 The Rock of Truth.
.any, survived to return. They were captured in the
countries through which they passed, tortured,
(starved, and made slaves, and so ended another of
the many tragedies of this long night of superstition.
Again stagnation followed, but in spite of the
grip the Church had, men's minds were slowly
developing and wondering, and this process cul-
-minated in what is known in history as the Reforma-
‘tion of the sixteenth century. The real foundation
for this great event was laid by the break-up of the
Holy Roman Empire by the capture of Constan-
tinoplein 1453 by the Turks. Much literature found
-its way to Venice and elsewhere from Constantinople
"before its capture, and in consequence tlhe Latin and
‘Greek Classics which had been banned by the Church
were again studied. It is inconceivable in these
‘more enlightened days, but it is true nevertheless,
"that when the Church was supreme all learning,
.apart from the knowledge of the Scriptures, was
looked upon as immoral and as sin. This period of
.awakening is termed Renaissance or New-birth.
If, indeed, printing had not been discovered, it
"is doubtful if the Reformation would then have
occurred. Printing was invented in 1450. Martin
Luther was born in 1483. Until printing was in-
vented individual thoughts could not be passed on
‘from one to another, and the stagnant pool of ortho-
vdoxyremaineduntroubled. The invention of printing
.stuck a dagger into the heart of Christendom, and
from that day onwards Europe and the world has
-(gradually freed itself from the curse of priest-craft.
In thecentury previous to the Reformation, Wycliffe,
Huss, and others had sounded a warningnote thatall
The Christian Religion. 107
was not right in the Christian Church. Then
ffollowed Luther, who took up the cause in Germany,
Ziska in Hungary, and Zwingli, who espoused it in
Switzerland. The adherents of the new reform
movement became numerous. Much was made by
‘the reformers of the wholesale selling of indulgences
by papal agents, and when Luther attacked these
iniquities he found willing followers. After much
controversy the reformers boldly propounded the
principles of the reformed Christian religion, and
from that time onwards the struggle grew fast and
furious.
Hithertono Bible had been seen by others than
the priests, the people not havingbeen able to read or
write. Following the invention of printing came the
capacity to read and write, and consequently the re-
formers claimed that the Scriptures should become
public property and not only the property of the
Church. The reformers also rejected the doctrine
of transubstantiation, the adoration of the Virgin and
the saints, and the leadership of the Pope. Luther's
-excommunicationnaturallyfollowed, but as thepeople
‘began to read and think the Reformation spread.
Ultimatelythegreater part of Germany, Switzerland,
the Netherlands, Scandinavia, Englandand Scotland
were won over to the new teaching.
Living as we do to—day in a more enlightened
world, we do not perhaps fully realise how
ignorant were our ancestors before printing was
invented, and it is difficult for us to gauge how much
the dawn of a new day meant to, the world, after a
night of intense darkness. Luther’s whole religious
outlook was changed when he got a copy of the
108 The Rock of Truth.
Bible and read it through. “
I tormented myself to
death,’’
he said, “
to make my peace with God,” and
there and then in his monastery he dedicated himself
to the task of showing the world the errors of the
Church, and what he thoughtwas the only true way
to salvation according to the Scriptures. The re-
formers were, however, men steeped in ignorance
and superstition. Calvin advocated murder to
support his religious views, and Luther denounced
Galileobecausehe opposed theastronomyof Genesis.
john Knox was only in favour of religious toleration
when he was in the minority. When he gained the
upper hand religious freedom was abolished.
From the discovery of printing also dates the
advance of science. Prior to this event every-
one took everythingjust as it appeared. Nothing
was known of medicine, astronomy, biology or
geology, and the writings and maxims of the wisdom
of Greece had long been forgotten. Orthodoxy
had almost completely obliterated man's reasoning
powers, but as the spark of intelligence burned anew
thoughtful people began to question the divine origin
of the religion that had entailed such awful con-
sequences.
The few began to compare Christianity with .
other religions and came to the conclusion that the
difference between them was negligible. They also
wondered why men had to be inspired in order, to
teach that God instructed his chosen people to make
slaves of the people who lived amongst them, whilst
Epictetus, a heathen, who was not inspired, could
write-—
“
Will you remember that your servants are by
The Christian Religion. 109
nature your brothers,thechildrenof God. In saying
that you have bought them you look down on the
earthand into thepit. It is not thelaw of the Gods.' ’
They also wondered how Cicero, a pagan, 70
years before-Christ, who had never heard of the
Christian scheme of salvation, could write, “
They
who say that we should love our fellow citizens but
not foreigners, destroy the universal brotherhood of
mankind, and thus benevolence and justice would
perish for ever.” Zeno, the founder of the Stoics,
endorsed this sentiment in similar words.
A comparison of the teachings of the inspired
Bible with those of the pagan writers who were not
inspired brought to light the fact that the uninspired
teachers were definitely superior to the inspired,
which latter the Christian Church with its warped
mentality still prefers. Why could Cicero uninspired
write the following, “
They whose minds scorn the
limitationsof thebody, are honoured withthefrequent
appearance of the spirits. Their voices have been
often heard, and they have appeared in forms so
visible that he who doubts it must be partly bereft of
reason.” Yet the writer of Ecclesiastes required to
be inspired by the creator of heaven and earth to
write the following, “
For the living know that they
shall die, but the dead know not anything, neither
have they any reward, for the memory of them is
forgotten.” Why was it necessary to inspire some-
one to record that Jehovah ordered a Jewish general
to make war and then gave him the followinginstruc-
tions. “
When the Lord thyGod shall deliver them
before thee, thoushall smite them and utterly destroy
them. Thou shalt make no covenant with them nor
110 The Rock of Truth.
show mercy unto them.”
And yet Epicurus, called an
heathenby Christians, could so far surpass his creator
in magnanimity that he could say
“
Live with thine
inferiors as thou wouldst have thy superiors live-
with thee.” ,
According to Christians, God is reported in the
Bible as saying "
I will heap misfortune upon them.
I will spend mine arrows upon them. They shall be-
burned with hunger and devoured with burning heat
and with bitter destruction. I will also send the-
teeth of beastsupon them, withthepoison of serpents.
of thedust. The sword withoutand theterror within
shall destroy both the young man and the virgin, the
suckling also, and the man with grey hairs.” This,
accordingto Christians, is the morality of their God ;.
whereas Seneca, who was a pagan, wrote as follows,
“
The wise man will not pardon every crime that
should be punished, but he will accomplishin a nobler
way all that is sought in parcloning. He will spare-
some and Watch over some because of their youth,
and others on account of their ignorance. His.
clemency will not fall short of justice, but will fulfil it
perfectly.” Again we read that the God whom
Christians worship said, “
Let his children be father-
less and his wife a widow, let his children be con-
tinually vagabonds and beg; let them seek their
bread also out of the desolate places. Let the ex-
tortioner catch all that he hath, and let the stranger
spoil his labour. Let there be none to extend mercy
upon him; neither let there be any to favour his:
fatherless children,” and yet Marcus Aurelius, the-
noblest of the pagans, who lived as he taught, and’
gave the world one of the finest examples of the-
possibilities within humanity, wrote :—“I have-
\
The chmmm Religion. 111'
formed the ideal of a state, in which there is the same
law for all, and equal rights and equal libertyof speech-
established, an empire where nothingis honoured so
I
much as the freedom of the citizen.’
Jehovah to his servant Moses gave the com-
mand, “
Thou shalt have no other Gods before me.
Thou shalt not bow down to them nor serve them,
for I the Lord thyGod am a jealous God visitingthe
iniquities of the fathers upon the children unto the-‘
1)
third and fourth generation of them that hate me.
The words attributed to the God Brahma by the
Hindusshowed their God in a much more favourable-
light as, unlike Jehovah, not fearing competition, he
They who»
said, “I am the same to all mankind.
honestlyserve other Gods involuntarilyserve me. I
am he who partaketh of all worship, and I am the.“
reward of all worshippers.”
All impartial students of the past can come to no- .
other conclusion than that the beliefin the inspiration
of the Holy Bible, though it has given strengthand
help to millions, nevertheless has been one of the-
greatest hindrances to the progress of humanity.
Is it not also a misnomer that this book is still.‘
called "Holy” and the “Word of God” in
any civilised place of worship?
why every battleship when launched receives the
blessingof the Church, and is dedicated to God I '
Is
it to be Wondered at thathistory records thatamongst
professing Christians are to be found some of the-
greatest blackguards imaginable. How could it be
otherwise when they conceived a tyrant in Heaven
Whom they believed issued instructions to mankind?
which would disgrace the most brutal savage?
However, the sayings of the great and the good?
We can now see-
112 The Rock of Truth.
of other lands and of other faiths, men who did not
worship a tyrant, brought light to Europe after a dark
night of Christianity, during which the wonderful
literature of Greece had been buried for centuries
under the debris of orthodoxy.
It was also found that other non-Christian
nations, looked upon as heathen, knew more than
Christians did; that in China the astronomers,
2,449 years beforeChrist, had calculated eclipses, and
knew something of the movements of the planets;
that in Babylon, 500 years before Christ, the annual
movements of the sun and moon were calculated
within 10 seconds of accuracy for the entire year;
whereas Christians burned and tortured their astrono-
mers. Thinkingpeople wondered why the writer of
Kings and Chronicles had to be regarded as inspired
while Gibbon uninspired could write unaided The
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, and why
thestory in thebook of Joshua about the sun standing
still was inspired, when the Babylonians were not,
thoughfor 360 years theymade astronomical calcula-
tions, the longest ever made by man, our Greenwich
observations going back only 181 years.
Intelligent people also found that other nations
had hospitals and medical services, and were in
advance of Christian nations in many respects. The
oldest treatise on surgery was written in Egypt 5,000
"years ago, and 4,000 years ago the Egyptians were
writing mathematical treatises of astonishing pene-
tratron.
Peopleat last became tired of buildingcathedrals
and thought the time had come to turn the huts and
hovels of thepeopleinto decent dwellinghouses. The
The Christian Religion. 113
thinkingpeople after the Reformationbeganto realise
that learning had almost entirely been lost, and that
if people had been educated, had known more of
the literature of Greece and Rome, had studied the
philosophy of Plato, Zeno and Epicurus, and had
heard less of the teachings of Christianity, Europe
would have been in a better, happier and more pros-
perous state. During the night of Christianity,
Europe produced no literature. For 1,400 years
the minds of men were paralysedby this superstition,
and thus after the Reformation the lamp of learning
was re-lit by the ancient. literature of Greece and
Rome. The wisdom of these two nations was
the basis on which Europe built up its literature.*
The light of Reason, which Christianityextinguished
for a time, was re-lit by the writings of men who
were not “inspired”
or
“
called” or “saved,” and
had never heard of the Christian God. The
Mohammedans were friends of Science when Chris-
tians were burningits pioneers, and it is to the Moors
we are indebted for layingthe foundationsof Science.
All this which was discovered after the Reforma-
tion not only created a great change in the thoughts
of the people from a religious point of view, but also
from a scientific point of view, and we now see two
groups emerging. One, discarding the teachings of
the orthodox Church, held to the Bible as the anchor
of their new religion, and the other comprising men
of science feeling their way by appealing to the
*1 can recommend Paganism and Christianity, by Farrer, from which
the reader will discover that we are indebted to the great pagan
philosophers and teachers for our laws, our code of morals, and
our ideals, in fact for our present civilisation. Similar views are
expressed by Professor Gilbert Murray in Christianity in the Light
of Modern Knowledge.
H
114 The Rock of Truth.
thoughtand reason of mankind, by seeking evidence
resulting from intelligent inquiry, and thus leading
the thinkingsection 6f the people towards a new line
of thought and action. The narrow way of the
Church, they argued, had led Europe into a wilder-
ness, and they advocated the broad way now being
taken, with its borders enriched by all the glories
which art, refinement, and science could give.
Those leaders of science had to suffer, and suffer
cruelly. The early days of the Reformation had
given the old Church a cruel blow, yet it was by no
means paralysed. We find that Copernicus felt safe
in publishing his discoveries with regard to the plan-
etary system only on his death bed, and dedicatingit
to the Pope. Galileo, under the fear of the In-
quisition, had publicly to renounce on his knees that
the earth moved round the sun, and it was not till the
beginning of the nineteenth century that the Church
of Rome admitted its error. Spinosa was cut off by
Papal edict from all intercourse with his contem-
poraries, and the anathema which was placed upon
him in the name of God stated that he was execrated
and cast out of the community. The anathema is
too long to quote, but his only crime was thathe used
the sacred gift of reason, which everyone is given,
and by its exercise came to the conclusion that the
Church was wrong.
This ignorant institution did not know the shape
of the earth. It thought that diseases were caused
by devils. It was not the Church that demonstrated
that the earth was round, but Magellan, who left
Spain on the 10th August 1519 and kept sailing till
he reached Sevilleon September7th 1522. Bruno,
The Christian Religion. 115
one of the greatest of men, taught the plurality of
worlds, and called the CatholicChurch a “triumphant
beast.” In those days the Church thoughtthat this.
earth was the only world in the universe. In 1609'
Kepler published his book “The Motions of the
Planet Mars.” He mathematicallyexpressed the
relation of distance, mass and motion. He was one»
of the greatest of our scientists, and his three laws.
were the foundation of the science of Astronomy.
Then followed Newton, Herschell, and Laplace, and"
the astronomy of Joshua faded further into insigni—-
ficance. Then man began to examine the rocks and
strata of the earth, and found thatinstead of the earth
being a few thousand years old it is hundreds of"
millionsof years old. On thebasis of the known rate-
of the disintegration of the metal uranium into lead,
experts can calculate how long these two metals.
have been in contact, and their calculations prove
that the requisite period for uranium to turn into lead’
is from 340 to 1,700 million years, according to the
nature of the ore. The Church since the Council of:
Carthage had rested its supreme authorityon the"-
statements of Holy Scripture. It based all its know-
ledge of astronomy, biology and healing on the:
writings of an ignorant age, and what was the result?‘
It plunged Europe into a night of darkest ignorance,
and only when its autocratic power was overthrown‘
by thediscoveriesof science, and men beganto reason
and think and calculate, did Eugope make progress;
and become prosperous.
There still remained obstacles to progress, as
many of the religious reformers were just as cruel and‘
ignorant as the Church theyhad left, the result being‘
116 The Rock of Truth.
thatfrom the Reformationonwards right up to theend
of the seventeenth century there is one long story of
torture, ‘slaughter and misery. All who dared to
think for themselves or thought differently from the
reformed Church were imprisoned and put to torture.
Though Servetus was the first to discover the circula-
tion of the blood (not Harvey),yet becausehe denied
the Trinityhe was cruelly put to deathby the Protes-
tants. He was the first Protestant to be burned by
Protestants.
The Inquisition was not confined to what is now
called the Roman CatholicChurch. The Inquisition
and its accompanying tortures by thumb screws,
racks, and other fiendish devices was just as for-
midable and just as fierce in Protestant Edinburgh
and Protestant London as it was in Catholic Spain.
Torture and imprisonment inflicted by one sect of
so-called reformed Christians on some other sect did
-‘
not cease in this country until the landing of William
of Orange in 1689, when all those awaitingtorture or
the scaffold for their religious beliefs, were liberated
from prison.
'
Torture and imprisonment, however, continued
for many years longer in France and throughout
Europe, and themost appallingcruelties are recorded.
Voltaire, who is contemptuously called an atheist by
some narrow—minded Protestants, abolished torture
in France and helped many sufi‘erers. His writings,
which exposed theinfamies of the Church of his time,
did much to break its power in France. He died an old
man in 1778, after having lived a life of great vigour
and usefulness. All the ridiculous stories of his
misery at his death are now proved to be lies spread
by the Church.
The Christian Religion. 117
' I have described above the conditions in
Europe, but the Protestants in America, whitherthey
had gone to obtain religious freedom from the Protes-
tants in England, were just as bigoted and cruel as
-their co-religionists. Thomas Paine, for instance,
one of the founders of the United States of America,
who all his life fought for freedom and liberty, and
abhorred slavery,was denounced from every Christian
pulpit. His crime was that he wrote The Age of
Reason. He simply took the ground that it is a
contradiction to call anythinga revelation from God‘
thatdoes not come to us direct. The revelationmust
be personal, not made to someone else. He also
showed that the so—called prophecies of the Old
Testament had nothing Whatever to do with
Jesus, and that the Old Testament was too bar-
barous to be the work of an infinitely benevo—
lent God. He did not think there was any
evidence that Jesus was God ; in other words,
he was a Unitarian. From the date of the
publication of The Age of Reason his doom was
sealed. He was denounced, deserted, ostracised,
shunned, maligned and cursed. He could not safely
appear in the streets, he was treated as a leper-
Under the very flag of liberty he had helped to fly
his rights were forfeited. He helped to give liberty
to more than three million of his fellow citizens and
they denied him his own. From the moment of his
death Protestants started manufacturingthe horrors
thatwere alleged to have attended his death—bed,how
his bedroom was filled with ‘Devils rattling chains,
and so on. The truth is that he died in peace, but
what he suffered many others suffered from thecruelty
and bigotry of Protestantism, and it is as well to re—
"118 The Rock of Truth.
member that all the cruelty of the past was not con-
fined to what is now called the Roman Catholic
‘Church, as all Protestant children are taught.
In addition to the suflering and sorrow caused
"to humanity by the intolerant Church, both Catholic
and Protestant, one other crime must be laid to its
charge, and that is one from which we are only
_gradually recovering. The text in Leviticus already
referred to, “
Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,”
was responsible for the awful crime of witch burning,
and in consequence of this super-sensitive people
‘called Mediums were almost exterminated.
The following entry is taken from the Parish
Register of Glamis, in Scotland, dated June 1676,
and is typical of what went on throughout Chris-
tendom for five hundred years :——“ Nae preaching
here this Lord's day, the Minister being at
Gortachy burning a witch.” The Church to-day
can only tell lies about Mediums and Spiritua-
lists to congregations still steeped in ignorance of the
subject, owing to the worship of the Holy Bible. If
it had beenotherwiseand thosegifted peoplehad been
allowed to live, and if people had been intelligent
enough to understand them properly, how different
would have been the history of Europe ! The gross
materialismof the Church and of Science would never
have developed, and instead of science working on
purely materialistic lines it would have realised better
man’s true position in the Universe. Neither
theology nor science has yet the correct knowledge
of the meaning of our existence and destiny.
Theology has searched amongst ancient documents
thinkingthat from them the riddle of existence could
The Christian Religion. 119
be unravelled. Science on its part has ignored the
spiritual nature of man and looked on him merely as
a material creation. Both science and theologyhave
taken appearances for reality and this has been a
tremendous loss to humanity.
Since 1712, when the last witch was burned in
England, mediumship has developed and revealed to
us another world about and around us. It has also
revealed to us man’s spiritual nature and the factthat
he is possessed of an Etheric Body, the exact dupli-
cate of his Physical Body, that Mind is substance
which controls the Physical Body throughthe Etheric
Body, and that about and around us there is an
Etheric VVorld, to which we shall all pass at death,
irrespective of our theological beliefs. Through
mediumship Spiritualists have also learned that the
material universe is not the whole universe, but only
a small part of the universe. What suffering and
misery would have been saved to humanityif this text
about killingwitches had never been written and never
been believed!
The Reverend Jonathan Edwards and other
Protestant divines, if the Bible had been properly
understood, would never have tortured the people by
such teaching as this. “
The view of the misery of
the damned will double the ardour of the love and
gratitude of the Saints in Heaven.” Here is an ex-
tract from another reverend gentleman's sermon.
“
The God thatholds you over the pit of Hell, much
in the same way that one holds a spider or some
loathsome insect, abhors you and is dreadfully pro-
voked.” I shall only quote one more.
“
The world
will probably be converted into a great lake of fire in
120 The Rock of Truth.
which the wicked shall be tossed to and fro. Their
Vitals shall for ever be full of a glowing melting fire
enough to heat the very rocks and elements for ever
and ever without any end at all.”
These are a few specimens of Protestant
preaching, and if they are not preached to-day it is
because the Bible is taken less seriously, and owing
to the more enlightened view taken by the Church
in consequence of the advance in scientific know-
ledge and the teachings of Spiritualism. Protes-
tantism is as cruel a creed as Roman Catholic-
ism. The two who did as much as any to promote
their acceptance and growth were murderers. Con-
stantine killed his own kith and kin, and Calvin
murdered Servetus because he disagreed with him.
Both the Catholic and Protestant Churches were
tyrannicalwhen theyhad the power, giving no mercy
to anyone. That is the consequence of an inspired
Church or an inspired book. Whenever men
thinkthat they and they only have divine authority,
cruelty and intolerance follow.
Everythingadvocated in the Bible was considered
as coming from God. From every Christian pulpit
slavery was upheld becausethe Bible taughtit. The
pulpit was turned into a whipping post, and only as
the idea of its divine authoritydied did Englandcease
to support the slave trade, but the Church in its
cruelty upheld it, to its lasting shame, till the 19th
century. Parsons and others held stock in slave
ships and slave-tradingconcerns, and justifiedthis by
quoting Bible texts. V/Vilberforceand Clarkeson,who
dedicated their lives to the abolition of slavery, were
denounced from every pulpit in the country, and on
.
the story of the fall of man,\‘nor would theyhave de-
\§
The Christian Religion. 121
%
them the Christian Church poured contempt and _
hatred for advocating a course contrary to God.
122 The Rock of Truth.
of its founder, the Church to—day should be humble
and penitent instead of arrogant and reactionary.
I look back and see the coiled serpents of super-
‘
stition awaiting their prey. I see them seize all who
"try to use the sacred gift of reason. I see gorgeous
rtemples reared amidst degradation and filth, and
money spent on sacred edifices instead of on the
‘housing of mankind. I see altars red with the blood
of human beings, and the cross of Christ turned into
a sword.
I look forward and I see a world freedfrom
priest—craft, and everyone possessing the right to ex—
press opinions as his reason dictates, Without being
-condemned from the pulpit by those who thinkthe}r,_
have a divine revelation handed down to them, either
through an inspired Church or through an inspired
Book. I see the fear of death removed, and inter-
communication between this world of ours and the
Etheric World surrounding us free and untram—
rnelled, and Mediums looked upon as sacred instru-
ments and not denounced by ignorant parsons and’
priests as theyare to—day. Just as man has developed
in other directions and acquired knowledge by ex-
perience, so will this knowledgecome to him in time,
‘to the great increase of his happiness and well-being.
If Jesus is God or part of God, as the Christian
"Church claims, and as Christians say each Sunday
theybelieve, why did he not tell the world something
new, something that had never been told before?
Why did he not look into the future and say
“
In my
name, if I do not warn you, crimes, horrors and
iniquities will be committed. The hungry flames
will torture millions at the stake. This must never
The Christian Religion. 123
be. That horrible text in Leviticus about burning
witches must be ascribed to ignorance, and be
ignored. My followers must never persecute those
who differ from them, as God's holy gift of reason
cannot be extinguished. No thumbscrews, racks,
or scaffolds must be used in my name, and no one
must be imprisoned because they will not be able to
understand the Trinity,or reconcilethecontradictions
of the Scriptures. No one who disbelieves in the
atonement will be punished in Hell, and believers in
-creeds and dogmas will not be the only occupants of
Heaven.”
If Jesus is God he must have known of all the
religious wars which would be waged in his name,
and the cruelty and,the misery which would follow
his life on earth. Why did he not warn his followers
not to shed blood, to torture and imprison in his
name? Why did he leave his disciples with the idea
that the world would soon come to an end? Why
did he not say which books of the Old Testament
were inspired and which of the New Testamentwould
be inspired, instead of leaving it to the Westminster
divimes to find out, thus allowing Christendom to
remain in ignorance of this vital matter for sixteen
hundred years?
Why did he distinctly say that he was not God,
and that there is only one God, when all the time he
was one of three Gods? Why did he continually
refer to himself as
“
a human being,” which is what
has been translated as
“
Son of Man? ”
Why did
he not explain that what would be translated “
Son
of God ”
in the original Aramaic meant nothingmore
than Servant of God? Why did he never nfention
124 The Rock of Truth.
the Trinity,if he is one of the three Christian Gods?
Why did he give thisworld no details of theafter—life?
Why did he not say whether Roman Catholicism,
‘Anglicanism, Presbyterianism or Methodism was
the way in which he preferred to be worshipped?
_Why did he not say that though everythingwritten
about him would be traced to earlier religions, yet he
was God, and that all who preceded him or followed
him, as religious teachers, were impostors, and that
Christianity was the only true religion?
If Jesus is God, the creator of the Universe,
why did he not tell his followers that this earth was
but a speck in immensity, that it was round and not
Hat, and also somethingabout Astronomy, Geology,
Medicine, and the other sciences and arts? Why
did he not himself write what he wished us to believe,
and not leave his words to be tossed about for cen-
turies in a sea of ignorant superstition, to be the cause
of sects and divisions in his Church? Why did he
say nothingin favour of education, or whether Evolu-
.tion or the Adam and Eve story is true? i
If Jesus was God he stillis God ; if God consists
of three parts, he is one of them. Christians say,
at least once every Sunday,theybelievethis. If this
be so then Jesus must have known all the past, and
the present, and the future. To him all wisdom, all
knowledge, must have been open like a book, and
yet he Went to his death withouttelling the world one
single fact it did not know before.
Why? Because he was a man and did not know.
Consequently,Christian doctrines, based as they
are on error, must give place to a new religion based
on truth. Just as Christianity is the product of pre-
The Christian Religion. 125
ceding religions which it absorbed, so in time it will
be displaced by Spiritualism quite naturally, and as
each year passes the resistance to the inevitable will
decrease till it eventually ceases altogether.
In concludingthis chapter I should like to quote
from the contribution made by the Rev. James H.
Baxter, Professor of Ecclesiastical History at St.
Andrew’s University, to that monumental work
Christianity in the Light of Modern Knowledge.
His words are as follows :—
“Upon the popular interpretation and practice of Christianity,
the effect of its establishment as the State religion had been profound..
If Paganism had been destroyed, it was less through annihilation than
through absorption. Almost all that was pagan was carried over to
survive under a Christian name. Deprived of demi-gods and heroes,
men easily and half unconsciously invested a local martyr with their
attributes, and labelled the local statue with his name, transferring to
him the cult and mythology associated with the Pagan Deity.
this century (Fourth) was over the martyr—cult was universal, and a
beginning had been made of that interposition of a deified human being
between God and man which, on the one hand, had been the consequence
of Arianism, and was on the other the origin,of so much that is typical
of mediaeval piety and practice. Pagan Festivals were adopted and
re-named, and Christmas Day, the ancient festival of the sun, was
transformed into the birthday of Jesus."
That Christianity was just a new name given to
old religious beliefs, rites, and ceremonials there is
not the least doubt. The reason people continue to
believe the old dogmas and creeds is Because they
were taughtthemin childhoodas true, and have never
taken the trouble to investigate the subject for them-
selves. With mental development the light is now
breaking through, and we are now finding that the
new knowledge gives us infinitelygreater satisfaction
than the old beliefs, as it not only satisfies all human
longings and desires but, more important still, it is
based on truth scientificallyestablished.
Before >
CHAPTER IV.
WHAT DID JESUS REALLY TEACH?
IN the foregoing chapter I have given an account of
the origin of Christianity and its sacred books, its
teachings, and the consequences of these teachings.
The Christian Church has no historical basis for the
claims it makes with regard to Jesus. These claims
are all based on tradition, on stories which passed
from one to another, and no one can possibly say
whether, as they are now recorded to us in print,
they are in any way like the original statements.
Besides having no historic basis the claims made
by Christians about Jesus are now found to have been
made by other religions about their Saviours long
before the Christian era. Consequently the unique-
ness of Jesus has disappeared and we must all now
accept the fact that, as portrayed to us, he is only
one of many similar legendary crucified saviour god-
men whose followers believed had died for the sins
of the world.
Mr. T. R. Glover, in the introduction to his
book The ]esus of History,states "
The gospels are
not properly biographies; theyconsist of collections.
of reminiscences, memories and fragments that have
survived for years, and sometimes the fragment is
little more than a phrase. The gospels are almost
avowedlynot first hand,” and yet on this flimsybasis
his book advances the most extravagant and absurd’
claims about Jesus for which there is not a scrap of
evidence. This acknowledged pro-Christian book
is typical of all Christian literature, but fortunately
the public is beginning to find out that it has been
T/Vhat did fesus really teach? 127'
deceived by its Christian leaders, and that those men
who have been termed “Agnostics," “Infidels,”
“
Rationalists,”
reproach in the old days, becausetheyviewed Chris-~
tianity in a rational way, are the men who can now
be trusted, as they have always put truth first and
foremost, and never allowed sentiment to blind their‘
reason. This chapter will therefore deal with facts,
not with fancies; it will keep strictly to the truth,
and not try to mislead people into believing some-—
thingfor which there is no evidence. V
If we were reading about an every-day event,.
an earthquake, for instance, and read that this earth--
quake occurred nineteen hundred years ago, and knew
that the story of the earthquake had been handed‘:
down by word of mouth for forty years or so, and
ultimately the story was recorded in writing, and that
this writing was done by someone who was extremely
ignorant of the art, also that in those days accurate-
thinkingand writing was not considered important,
and that the original had been lost, but that copies.
of the original had been made, and lost, but that.
copies of the copies existed, but that all the copies in.
existence differed from each other, would We be in-—
clined to believe that the details so recorded were‘
in any way reliable?
In this case we are not asked to believe some--
thing which we know is a common occurrence, but"
on this so-called “
evidence ’ ’
we are asked to believe-
that somethinghappened thatnever happened before
and has never happened since ; that God the creator’
of this immense Universe came on earth, was born in
an unnatural way, raised the dead, and did other
and “
Free—thinkers,” all terms of‘
128 The Rock of Truth.
wondrous things, without the people of the time
believingin them or in him; was crucified because
he was accused of claiming to be God and of having
political ambitions, and that after death he appeared
again in his earthly body to his disciples, ascending
afterwards bodily into Heaven. If such events
were’ reported as happening to-day no one would
believe them.
We are told, further, that marvellous occur-
rences took place at his death—earthquakes,the day,
turned into night, the dead coming out of their graves
and walkingabout Jerusalem, and this though Pliny,
who died in 79 A.D., and recorded every earthquake
that happened within knowledge, never mentioned
this particular event nor mentioned what the dead had
to say about having come back to earth, if theywere
glad or sorry to be back on earth, or what the other
world was like. VVas no one sufficiently interested
to ask them? If it had been true we should surely
have heard somethingdirect about the other world
on this famous occasion. Besides that, we are told
that God, thus coming to earth, took upon himself
the sins of those who believedthathe suffered in their
place, and that these would be saved, and live for
ever in a fantastic Heaven, while those who did not
believe would suffer eternal torment in Hell.
That is brieflywhat the Churches have preached
since 325 A.D., though some of the more enlightened
leaders tell us to-day thatthisis not now the Churches’
teaching. Why is this so? What has happened to
make the Church change its teaching? And if the
Church has changed its teaching why does it not
publiclysay so, and withdrawall the books and docu-
What did ]esus really teach? 129
ments it has published and is still publishing sup-
porting this teaching? Until the Church does this
publicly it must be accepted that Christian teaching
is still substantially the same to-day as it has been
since the Council of Nicaea decided what Christianity
was.
I must, therefore, accept the Nicene Creed, the
'Athanasian Creed, the Thirty—Nine Articles of the
Church of England, the Confession of Faith of the
Church of Scotland, and the Shorter and Longer
Catechisms, and all the assertions they contain, as
representing Protestant Christianity. Roman Catho-
licism still stands by the old creeds and never Wavers,
so its position is never in doubt. If these documents
do not represent true Christianity what does ; what
is true Christianity and whence comes the authority
for modern Christianity about which everyone has a
different opinion?
Now Spiritualists, and most enlightened people
in these days, do not give a thought to these docu-
ments or assertions. Theyare relegatedto a bygone
age. ( The Church to—day, they realise, has nothing
of any value on which to base its claims, and it is
supported only by people who have always accepted
what it has taughtand never reasonedfor
themselves.V
Spiritualists, therefore, know that it is only a matter
of time for the change to come, as more and more
people are now thinkingfor themselves, and that the
Church must ultimately adopt Spiritualism and all
Spiritualism stands for. If it does not do so all its
authorityand influencewill go, and it will becomethe
byword of the next generation.
iflhereis very little historical evidence that Jesus
130 The Rock of Truth.
ever lived.* }\Philo, Tacitus, Pliny, Suetonius, Epic-
tetus and Plutarch, all first century historians of the
highest standing, make no mention of him, except
thatthreeof themallude to thetraditions current about
him as romulgated by the Christians of their times.
CelsusifheRoman philosopherof thesecond century,
wrote a treatise to prove thattherewas not a historical
fact to show that the claims of the Christians re-
gardingJesus were justified. There is little historical
reference to him anywhere except in what is now
believed to be a forgery. The only important piece
of evidence we have outside Christian literature is
contained in a passage by the Jewish historian
Josephus, who wrote in the last decade of the first
century. This passage will be found in the 18th
book of the Antiquities of Josephus. It runs as
follows :—
“
Now about this time came Jesus, a wise man,
if indeed one may call him a man, for he was a doer
of wonderful works, a teacher of such men as receive
what is true with pleasure, and he attracted many
Jews and many of the Greeks ; this was the Christ.
And when on the accusation of the principal men
among us Pilate had condemned him to the cross,
they did not desist who had formerly loved him (for
he appeared to them on the third day alive again,
the divine prophets having foretold both this and a
myriad other wonderful things about him), and even
now the race of those called Christians after him has
not died out.”
Is this passage accepted by historians and critics
as‘ genuine? No, with very few exceptions they
=3(<I-Iistorical and traditional evidence must not be confused. The
evidence on which the life of Jesus rests is almost entirely
traditional.
Whatdid Jesus really teach? 131
believe that it is an interpolation. It is out of its
setting, as immediately following is an indecent tale
of Roman society. Origen, the early Christian
father, states that Josephus did not believe Jesus to-
be the Christ. Origen and the early fathers, more-
over, were unaware of this passage. Josephus was.
a Jew, not a Christian, and never becamea Christian.
Consequently the passage above referred to is.
inappropriate as coming from anyone who was’.not.
a Christian. Gibbon, the historian, distinctly states.
thatthere is no doubt thatit is an interpolation added
in the fourth century.
However, for the sake of argument, let us admit"
that it is genuine, and that Josephus did write it, and;
thatit is a fair representationof thecase. What then.
do we find? Nothing extraordinary, nothing cer-
tainly on which to build thecreeds and dogmas of the
Christian Church. He referred to Jesus as the
Christ, which means the Anointed One, but this.
term was given to other outstanding religious.
teachers. He also referred to him appearing to his.
disciples the third day alive again, but this is not ex—e
traordinary, as apparitions were as common in those-
days as they are in our day. We therefore do not
require to subvert our reason to accept this account:
of Jesus. Whether it is genuine or not is of no im-
portance; if it is, it is the only statement there is.
respecting Jesus of any value.
Let us now consider, from theunreliable evidence-
we have before us,* from the contradictions of the-
=X=Professor Harnack (called “one of the greatest living experts in:
this branch of scholarship "
by the Christian Evidence Society),
in his book What is Christianity? states that he believes the:
gospels are only credible in their outlines.
132 The Rock of Truth.
gospel narratives, and their many obvious mistakes,
what it is possible that Jesus really taught, and I
think I can show from three of the gospels that what
‘he is reported as having taught was just what we
might expect from a religious teacher of his day. In
none of the four gospels does he claim to be founding
a new religion. He was born a Jew, lived a Jew,
and died a Jew.
Taking, first of all, the first three gospels as a
basis for this discussion, let us go through them
one by one. The gospel which is attributed to
Matthew tells us that our being saved depends on
how -we live. According to the gospels, Matthew
was a disciple of Jesus and was constantly with him
for the two years of his ministry. Nothingis to be
found here to justify the Church's creeds or doctrines.
Briefly, Matthew tells us that Jesus taught that
Heaven‘ would be attained by those who were poor
in spirit, merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers, per-
secuted for righteousness sake, and kept the ten
commandments; also by those who forgave their
enemies, who judged not, but who received righteous
men and did thewill of God. Accordingto Matthew,
‘Jesus also taught that every man shall be rewarded
according to his works, and that we must become as
little children. That we are to sell all that we have
and give to the poor ; that we should forsake
brethren, sisters, father, mother, wife and children
for his sake ; and, lastly, that we should honour our
father and mother, feed the hungry and give drink
to the thirsty, shelter to the stranger, clothe the
naked, comfort the sick, and visit the prisoner in
prison.
Vi/hat did Jesus really teach? 133
/ Again I read in the same book, “
And behold
one came and said unto him, ‘
Good Master, what
good thingshall I do that I may have eternal life? ’ ”
Now here was a chance reallyto find thetruth. Here
was an enquiry direct from man to God, so the
Church says—a direct question, the answer to which
everyone of us wants to know. “
What good thing
shall I do that I may have eternal life?” What did
Jesus reply? He did not say you must believe that
he is the second person in the Trinity. He did not
say you must be baptised. He did not say you must
believe the Bible to be the inspired word of God.
He did not say you must repeat somethingand believe
something. No ! Jesus simply stated, “
Thou shalt
do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou
shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false Witness,
Honour thy father and mother, and Thou shalt love
thy neighbour as thyself.” What right has the
Church to add conditions to salvation which Jesus did
not think necessary? Why add to, or take away
from, this direct answer to a direct question? ,/i
I now pass on to the gospel attributed to Mark..
Now Mark is considered by all students of the subject
to bethemost likelyto be nearest thetruthconcerning
the life and sayings of Jesus. It is theleast legendary
or miraculous of the gospels. Jesus is depicted as
a good man, and the virgin birthand the other mira-
culous stories about him are noticeable by their
absence.
My friend F. C. Burkitt, Professor of Divinity
at Cambridge, published last year Jesus Christ, an
Historical Outline, an attempt to form a reasonable
View of Jesus, his life and teachings. It should be
134 The Rock of Truth.
.-read by those interested in pursuing the subject
‘further. He regards the gospel of Markas theoldest
gospel, remarking, “
I regard the frameworkof the
Gospel of Mark as based on much the same authority
as the contents, thatis to say, reminiscences more or
less faithful,” and again, “Matthew and Luke on
the other hand do preserve singly fragments of
genuine tradition.’'
On this ‘ '
more or less faithful"
story are built up in his opinion the gospels of
Matthew and Luke, so that is all we have to go on
in considering what is contained in the first three
gospels.
I find that in this gospel of Mark also
there are conditions stated regarding salvation
similar to those given in Matthew, with one ex-
ception, and this occurs in a passage reading
from the ninth verse to the end of the last
chapter. It does not invalidate the argument,
.however, as this passage is now known to be an
interpolation. It is not in the oldest manuscripts,
and particular attention is drawn to this fact in the
revised version of the Bible. It enables one to see
?how valueless the gospels are, as this is only one of
one hundred interpolations which are easily recog-
nised, occurring as they do in later versions, and not
in the earlier versions. The words in all these inter-
polations are quite out of their setting and have no
reference to what is beingreported. One of the best
examples of an interpolation is the remark attributed
to Jesus that Simon Barjona would henceforth be
‘known as
"
Peter, and upon this rock I will build
my Church.” This simple fisherman only knew
Aramaic, the language Jesus and his contemporaries
What did fesus really teach? 135
spoke, and how could he receive a Greek name
meaning a stone? This word play could only be
understood by one knowing Greek, and must have
been inserted centuries later when a copy was being
made by some enthusiastic scribe whose enthusiasm
for the Church was greater than his honesty.
Anotherblatantforgery is thestory of thewoman
taken in adultery, which is a late addition and is not
in the oldest known codices. This fact is clearly
marked in the Revised Version, but it in itself is
enough to cast discredit on the entire Bible. This
and many other instances make clear that the book
is just a patchworkof stories which have no veridical
value, and are probably nearly all fictitious.
These interpolations and alterations to the
original text started at an early date and doubtless
went on till our authorisedversion was produced in
the 17th century. To show how unreliable is the
entire Bible, mention need only be made of the com-
plaint made by Dionysius of Corinth in the year
170 A.D., who complained of the falsification of his
own writings, but consoled himself with the fact that
the same is done to the Scriptures of the Lord.
Passing on to the gospel of Luke, I find the
same teaching, namely, good works, good thoughts,
injunctions to forgive our enemies, as just as we
forgive, so shall weibe forgiven. In a few words,
Jesus preached a gospel of love and service to our
fellow-men, and love to God, our Fatherin Heaven.
Lastly,we come to St. ]ohn’s gospel, and here
we find the basis of the Church’s teaching. Here
we findthatbeliefis everything,and thatour reaching
Heaven depends on our beliefsand not on our deeds.
136 The Rock of Truth.
This seems rather extraordinary. Here we have
four records reputed to contain the sayings of Jesus.
I
In three of them we are told that Jesus taught good
works, good living, and kindness of heart, and never
a word about belief. Why was it ‘that Matthew,
Markand Luke never heard anythingabout salvation
by faith?
How was it thattheyforgot to record that Jesus
said, “
For God so loved the world that he gave his
only begotten son, that whosoever believethin him
should not perish, but have everlasting life?" If
these four records are inspired by God, why is this
and many other similarstatements omitted from three
of them, and only recorded in one of them? If
belief is essential to salvation it should at least have
been the other way about, in fact it should have been
recorded in them all.
However, reducing it to a question of mathe-
matics, we have three to one against belief, and one
to three in favour of belief, and the average good
man, when he reaches Heaven, if he is confronted
by the question on the day of judgment, will have a
very good case when he stands up to justify his claim
to be allowed to enter Heaven. He can tell the
Judge of all the Earth that in the four gospels he
finds that three of them stated that how he lived on
earth determined his admission to Heaven, and only
one stated that it was a question of believingsome-
thing he found impossible to believe. Can you
imagine a righteous judge on earth condemningsuch
a man? Certainly not, and no intelligent individual
can imagine God doing so. We must not impute to
the Almighty a justice inferior to our own.
Now it may be asked, why is there this extra-
lVhait did Jesus really teach? 137
ordinary difference between the gospels of St. John
and the other three gospels? The reason is readily
apparent to those who have studied the origin of the
gospels. The gospel of St. John was not written until
a later date thanthefirst threegospels. It was written
not earlier than the second century, at a time when a
certain section of the Church believed that beliefs
were necessary to salvation. “
The contents of the
gospel of John do not seem to the present writer
historical at all,” and “
I greatly doubt whether we
can distinguish often in that gospel what is derived
from tradition and what is derived from imagination.”
This is the view expressed by Professor Burkitt in
his book already referred to.
I have already shown that a large section of the
early Christian Church did not believe that creeds
were necessary to salvation or that Jesus was the
son of God. There were two sections in the Chris-
tian Church, and the gospel of St. John represents
the opinion which gradually developed, namely, that
one had to believesomethingto be a Christian. An
early Christian looked on Jesus as a teacher and
doer of good deeds, whereas this opinion gradually
changed until it was evenly divided, some continuing
to hold the original Christian view, and others the
view that belief was necessary to salvation.
Thus we find at the Council of Nicaea the two
opinions were boldly expressed, and only by a narrow
majority did those who held thatbeliefwas necessary
win their point. From that time onwards to hold
a certain belief was necessary to be a Christian, but
it was certainly not the teachingof Jesus, and it was
,
not accepted by the early Christians.
St. Paul is reputed to be theoriginatorof theidea
138 The Rock of Truth.
that to believe something was necessary to be a
Christian, that Jesus took the sins of the world, and
thatwe are justifiedby faith in him. What St. Paul
wrote or believedwe can only surmise, as the epistles
attributed to him have no historical value ; they are
unsigned, and no one knows when they were
written; and the same can be said of the epistles
attributed to the other disciples. Those who have
carefully studied the previous chapter can quite
reasonably believe that all these doctrines were later
additions to the original.
None of the epistles attributed to St. Paul ever
refer to or quote from the gospels, probably because
theywere written at an earlier date, and assuming it
was St. Paul who wrote them it must be remembered
that he never knew Jesus, and could not have been
acquainted with his teaching as his contemporary
followers were. The writers, of theepistlesattributed
to him, based their opinions on the Book of the Law,
and were thus imbued with the idea that Jesus was
the longed for Messiah mentioned therein——which,
however, was only their personal opinion. As the
origirt of those epistles is unknown, no known person
having seen the original documents, this opinion may
be interesting but is of no value.
Those who have studied the question consider
that the first three gospels represent the teaching of
*Jesus;more accurately than St. John's gospel or the
epistles. Nothing,it must be remembered, was put
in writingfor years after thedeathof Jesus, the reason
being, as Dr. Moffatt says in his introduction to his
New Translation of the New Testament, that there
was
no impulse to do so, as they were all awaiting
What did ]esus really teach? 139
thenew age at any moment, so why should theywrite
anything? When this did not materialise, according
to Dr.
140 l The Rock of Truth.
many,both before and after him, have lived similar
lives alnd sacrificed them for their fellow men.
His teaching was based on the basic principles
which had been accepted by all thegreat teachers who
had preceded him, and onlyin Spiritualismdo we find
those great fundamental principles emphasised and
the accretions ignored. I submit that Spiritualism
is thedulytrue religion for thepresent and the future,
just as, it has been the only true religion of the past.
Just as to-day it is accepted only by the few who
really know the truth, so in the past has it been
accepted by the few who likewise knew the truth,
becausethey,like the Spiritualists of to-day, were in
close Contact and held communication with the higher
intelligences of the Etheric World.
Round the basic truths of Spiritualism mankind
in ignorance has coiled superstitions which in different
forms have become embodied in the world’s present
religions It is the duty of Spiritualists to uncoil the
false from the true, and reveal the truth, which ortho-
doxy everywhere has hidden in a blackrobe of super-
stition and ignorance. When Spiritualists succeed in
educatingthe world to recognise the truth, then men
and Women of all nations will have a common know-
ledge qf the great facts of existence, all religious
differences, now so evident, will disappear, and man-
kind everywhere will worship in one cathedral whose
dome is, the firmament inlaid with suns, and whose
true and only priests are the interpreters of nature-
l
CHAPTER V.
ANOTHER REFORMATION NEEDED.
FOUR centuries ago what is known as the Refor-
mation occurred in the Christian Church. This
organisation had become so corrupt, and so out of
touch with the times, that it was split in two, some
preferringto remain withinthe old Church and others
deciding that a new Christian Church was needed.
Under the leadership of Martin Luther, what is
known as Protestant Christianity carved for itself a.
new Christianity, discarding much that the Old
Christianity thought essential, and adopting new
interpretations of many of the old beliefs. Though
the creeds were retained, the dogmas were changed.
The people in pre—Reformationtimes worshipped
and adored the Church, believing it to be a divine
institution, the Pope was regarded as thedivine repre-
sentative of God on earth, and the priests were
believed to be endowed with divine authority. The
priests claimed the power to forgive sin and punish
wickedness, and so things went on until the Refor-
mation. All people had to do was to go to Church
regularly,repeat the Latin prayers, participate in the
celebration of Mass, never giving a thought to
what it all meant. They were told that if they did
so they would live in bliss in the life to come, and
if theydid not do so theywould suffer eternal damna-
tion. This state of acceptingeverythingthe Church
teaches still continues to exist amongst the ignorant
people of to-day, both Catholic and Protestant.
The Protestant Church, which sprang into being
at the Reformation, claimed that everyone had the
142 The Rock of Truth.
right to think for himself, but that if any thought
differentlyfrom what their leaders said was true, they
would be damned eternally. The Protestant leaders,
now that printing and reading had come into being,
took the Bible as their guide, discarding the Pope
and the old orthodox teachings. The Bible, how-
ever, was a very different book at the Reformation
from what it is to—day. It contained many books
that the reformers omitted, and there were many
different versions in existence. Gradually it became
realised that if the Bible was to be the standard of
the new Church, a version of it must be produced
which must be standardised, and so in the year 1611
what is now called the Authorised Version of the
Bible was produced.
Following this, an assembly, called the West-
minster Divines, met in London in 1643 and produced
what is known as the Westminster Confession of
,
Faith. This was rejected in England but accepted
in Scotland. The Confession of Faith extends to
thirty—nine chapters, ranging over the most abstruse
topics of theology,and along with it are printed the
Longer and Shorter Catechisms, also adopted by the
Church of Scotland. The Confession of Faith, re-
jected in England,meant thatthe Church of England
still relied on the Thirty—Nine Articles, for whose
production Cranmer was chieflyresponsible. It took
from 1536 till 1571 to settle these Articles. They
were first ten in number, then rose to forty-two, and
were finally settled at thirty-nine. The other Pro-
testant countries in Europe also adopted various
definitions of their reformed faith, and thus we find
a repetition, in the years immediately following the
AnotheriRef0rmati0n needed. 143
Reformation, of what took place at Nicaea. The-
Christian religion was again recast.
The Protestant Church to—day still retains,
repeats and says it believes the creed of Nicaea, for--
mulated in 325 A.D., and the creed of Athanasius,.
formulated and accepted early in the ninth century.
Besides this it bases its beliefs on those documents
which were accepted as divinely inspired after the
Reformation. The Roman Catholic Church still:
retains the beliefs and doctrines it has always held.
There is, therefore, thisfeud between Roman Catho-
licism and Protestantism. The one is founded
entirely on the findings of the Councils in the early
days of Christianity, While the other is founded on-.
the findings of these Councils, supplemented by the
findings of the Councils of Divines, which met to-
gether from time to time following the Reformation.’
The Church of Rome, which claims to be the
expounder of true Christianity,is at variancein many
vital points with Protestant Christianity, because the
Roman Catholic Church still advocates and preaches.
the views expressed in the fourth century, whereas
the Protestant Church preaches and believes the
views expressed in the sixteenth and seventeenth:
centuries. The Protestant Church claims that it is
right and bases this claim on the Holy Scriptures,
and the Roman CatholicChurch claims thatit is right:
andbases its claims on thefindingsof theearlyfathers.
As education advanced, people began with-
increasing frequency to enquire what basis either
Church had for its teachings. The intelligent person
wants to know why certain doctrines are being
preached, and what foundation there is for those doc-
144 The Rock of Truth.
trines being claimed as divinely inspired and true.
They want to know why in the twentiethcentury we
must accept the findings of the Council of Nicaea, or
the Council of Westminster, or the opinions of
Cranmer. They want to know the why and where-
fore of these fundamental doctrines. The more we
enquire into the reason the more we find to convince-
us that there is no‘ real basis whatever for these
doctrines, which were promulgatedby zealous church-
men withlittle learningbut a vast amount of credulity.
We find also thatthe Protestant Church, basing
its doctrines on the Holy Bible, has based them on
sand instead of on a rock ; moreover, that this was
shifting sand, and, with the collapse of its foundation,
a profound change has been brought about in the
outlook of all thinkingpeople on the question of what
must be considered the fundamentals of belief. The
Westminster Divines pronounced the Holy Bible
divinely inspired word for word, that it contained no
mistakes, no contradictions,and thatit was a complete
and final record of God’s dealing with man and of
God’s plan of salvation. They asserted that the
Bible contained a scheme which required to be
believed in, and that this scheme ensured the
believer’s happiness hereafter, and the unbeliever’s
damnation.
They believedalso that God’s revelation to man
ended with the last word of the last chapter of the
book of Revelation, and that from that time on-
wards God had been silent. This belief has been
gradually relinquished by all intelligent Christian
people, but it is still the official beliefof the Protestant
‘Church, whether it be Church of England, Presby-
Another Reformation needed. 145
terian or Methodist. Officially, the beliefs ex-
pounded_ in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
are thebeliefsof our Church to-day,and consequently
the book of Common Prayer is read word for word
as it was read hundreds of years ago, and the Bible
is read word for word as it was read hundreds of years
ago. The reader commences the reading of the
Bible by saying, “
Here beginneth the Word of
God,” and ends his reading by again quoting God as
the authorof what he has read. Every petition and
prayer is ostensibly to the same God that the Jews
worshipped, and concludes with the name of Jesus
Christ, and no petition is considered valid without
this ending. The Bible is still considered officiallya
holy book, sacred and verbally true. Its stories are
preached on as if they were true, and the scheme of
salvation is still propounded as the only Way of man’s
salvation. No parson ever preaches from any other
book than the Bible, as the opinion of the Church
still is that it and it only has been divinely inspired.
In the English Church all these antiquated
formulae and expressions of opinion are repeated
Sunday after Sunday, and presumably the people
who do repeat them believe them. If they do not
they are very dishonest. If they do they are ex-
tremely credulous.
Officially, the Church has never changed its
views, and still retains the same antiquated ideas
about many of the fundamental and most important
thingsof life. It would be easy to criticise and make
light of many of the expressions in the Prayer Book,
in connection with the baptism, marriage, and the
morning and evening services. It would be also
K
146 The Rock of Truth.
easy to criticise the funeral service, and to show how
out of date are many of the expressions of opinion.
How foolish, for instance, it is to believe that what
the Church calls “thedead’’
sleep in theirgraves until
some future time which the Church calls the Resur-
rection, when the bodies are to be re-animated and
rise again from the grave. It would be easy to say
how unworthyit is to repeat gliblythe many horrible
expressions of cruelty and lust in the Psalms. It
would be easy to show the cruelty and absurdity of
the Athanasiancreed and the stupidity of the Nicene
creed. In fact it would be easy to criticise and pull
to pieces the entire prayer book, but to do this would
require a chapter instead of a page. Presumably,
however, those who regularly attend Church believe .
all they say they believe, as if they do not they are
committing a great sin which must react on their
characters. At some future date, when they recog-
nise more clearly the necessity for honest thinkingin
building up their characters, they will regret sub-
verting their reason to common custom and usage.
This criticism can also be extended to what is called
the Free Churches, and the Church of Scotland, as,
though the people do not repeat these absurdities,
yet they listen to them being uttered by the parson.
Fortunately, however, there are people honest
enough to refuse to repeat what theydo not believe,
and consequently they stay away from Church-
In consequence of this attitude of the Church,
never to change with the changing times, the atten-
dance at public worship is gradually getting smaller,
and the pews are gradually emptying. Various
devices are adopted by ingenious parsons to try to
Another Reformation needed. 147
fill their churches, but they are only temporarily
effective, for as the novelty passes off the church
is nearly empty again. The truth of the matter is
that a greater and greater number of people to-day
believe that truth comes before usage and custom.
They object to their reason beingdebased every time
they enter a church. Those who feel like this are
steadily increasing in number, and the progress of
Spiritualism is making the decline in church attend-
ance all the more marked.
Last century the people, rather than believe
nothing, subverted their reason, thinking that in .
doing so they were pleasing the Almighty. To—day,
however, the position is different. In every large
centre there are quite a number of Spiritualist
Churches, and in the smaller centres there is at least
one. The Spiritualists are buying up Churches from
impoverished orthodox communities, and the number
of Spiritualist Churches is increasing yearly, as the
‘
people through Spiritualismare findingtheir longings
and aspirations satisfied. They are finding in it 3.-
religion that will satisfy their reason and their con-
science, a religion that helps them through life and.
comforts them at death, a religion that makes
clearer to them their origin and their destiny.
The foregoing is a brief statement of facts and
I challenge anyone to refute them. The time has
come to ask seriouslywhat are the Christian Churches
going to do about it. Are they for ever going to
remain tied to the theologians of the past ?—\. Are
they never going to be able to evolve for themselves.
a religion which will satisfy the intellect of theaverage
intelligent member of the community? Are they
148 The Rock of Truth.
going to continue to pander to the ignorant, and when
these have become educated, are they going to con-
tinue to preachtheold doctrines and dogmasto empty
pews .7‘ Do theythinkthatthehand of timeis standing
still, and do theythinkthatwhat theyconsider heresy
to-day is not going to become the orthodoxy of to-
morrow? Do theythinkthat history is going to fail
to repeat itself, as it has repeated itself in the past,
for the heterodoxy of one age has always becomethe
orthodoxy of the next. The mind of man never
remains for long stationary. Semper idem is a very
dangerous policy.
I am not prepared to prophesy what the Chris-
tian Church intends to do, as the mentality of the
clergy has always puzzled me, and I would not be
so bold as to try to unravel such a tangled skein.
I shall, however, say this. If the Church does not
move with the times and does not discard all its old
dogmas and doctrines and accept Spiritualism, in
another generation it will be discredited and aban-
doned. A new Church will have taken its place, and
that Church will be guided, not by the theories and
formulae of dead theologians, but by some of the
greatest minds who have survived death, and are
to-day guiding the Spiritualist Church on its road
to victory. No man can stem the ocean’s tide, and
no Church can stop the rising tide of Spiritualism,
as the waves of the Etheric World are breaking with
increasing force on the shores of this world of ours.
There are, therefore, two courses open to the
Christian Church to follow. One is to ignore all
psychic phenomena and continue to look upon them
as fraud, or as the work of the devil. The other
Another Reformation needed. 149
course is to accept what men and women of honour
and intelligence have to say, men and women of our
own time, who claim, and rightly claim, that What
they affirm is not their theories but teaching which
has come from those who once lived here and have
been appointed by the Rulers of the Etheric World
to guide the lives of those on earth. If Christians
prefer to go back nineteen hundred years, and accept
as true what is reported to have been said by people
in those far off years, handed down in writings of
more thandoubtfulvalue, thenthereis nothingmore to
be said. If theyprefer to believewhat someone is re-
ported to have said thatsomeone said about something
nineteen hundred years ago, and disbelievethe hun-
dreds of thousands of people of the present day, in
our own country, who have experienced the validity
of this new revelation, then again there is nothing
more to be said. In Great Britain alone there are-
nearly 1,500 Spiritualist Churches, and at least three
million Spiritualists, people of honesty and intelli-
gence, many of whom claim to have communicated
with those who have passed on, and in consequence
cannot do otherwise than consider the old dogmas
and doctrines to be the product of an ignorant age.
The number of Spiritualists throughout the world
amounts to many millions, and is increasing every-
where. .
.
The choice is difficult for the clergy to make, as
they have kept their congregations so long in ignor-
ance, and in most cases theyare as ignorant as their
congregations, but the choice some day will have to
be made, and that day is looming nearer and nearer.
Spiritualists have never tortured nor persecuted
150 The Rock of Truth.
those who differed from them. They have always
upheld the freedom of thought and avoided doing
harm to anyone. Instead, therefore, of parsons
holding Spiritualists up to ridicule and scorn, calling
them deluded people, the victims of the Devil and
his followers, the clergy should rememberthe terrible
history of their own institution, and the crimes it has
committed in the name of religion.
Of course, all I have written with regard to the
origin of Christianity and the Bible should be well
known to every intelligent individual. Is it not all
recorded in many standard books, whose findings
have never been disproved, and also by various
leading professors of Biblical history who like-
wise have never been proved wrong? This being
so, would it not be more correct to say thatthe clergy
and not the Spiritualists are under a delusion? It is
the Spiritualists who are at pains to prove all things
and Whose beliefs, based on present-day evidence
which is incontestable, are founded on truth, whereas
the clergy rely on very doubtful tradition and ancient
superstition for their beliefsand cannot bring forward
any historical evidence for their assertions.
It would be well for the clergy to cease from
brandingSpiritualists as
‘ ‘
The servants of the devil”
when theyhave no authoritywhatever for expressing
such an opinion. Just as most of the clergy in this
-country made fools of themselves and their congrega-
tions by denouncing evolution, so they are likewise
making themselves and their congregations look
ridiculous by their latest attempt to fool the people.
Here are quotations taken from four recent sermons
which are typical examples of many. The first is z-——
Another Reformation needed. 151
“
Spiritualism affords the devil and his angels
the opportunity to drag men down to perdition."
The next is :—
“
Spiritualism is a perfectly devised instrument
of the devil. A conspicuous feature of this cult is
the absence of God.” And this in spite of the fact
that the first principle of Spiritualism is the Father-
hood of God. The third is :—
“
Spiritualism breaks God’s laws and is the
work of the devil.”
Consider the bigotry of these self-appointed
interpreters of God’s purpose towards men!
It is calculated that there are 100,000 séances
held in Great Britain every week, and in practically
every case prayer is offered to God, and protection
is asked against the forces of evil. Approachingthe
unseen in this spirit of reverence protects us from all
danger, as with minds of high purpose our Etheric
friends can get into our surroundings and keep away
all evil influences. This preaching against Spirit-
ualism takes place Sunday after Sunday up and down
the country, and I could fill very many pages with
similar extracts, but as they all run on the same line
I shall quote but one more.
“
Spiritualists are a deluded people, seduced into
belief in a lie, and the victims of the evil one.”
I withhold the names of these four represen-
tatives of the Protestant Church as some day they
will regret their folly, and I do not wish to brand
them for life.
These pronouncements, however, are samples
of the preaching delivered from Christian pulpits
throughout the country by parsons whose job in life
152 The Rock of Truth.
is to keep thepeople believingthe Church’s doctrines
at all costs, and by throwingdust in thepeople’s eyes,
by fair means or foul to prevent them from knowing
the truth. They quote various Biblical texts to sup-
portltheir theory, but do not tell their congregations
that there is no historical foundation or basis for any
of those texts quoted, and that there is no evidence
of divine inspiration for one of them. It is theyand
their felloW—Christians who are believers in a lie, not
Spiritualists, who can adduce scientific reasons for
the beliefs they hold, and moreover, can prove to
anyone Wishing to have the proof that all theyassert
is true.
Unlike Spiritualistnewspapers which willpublish
articles and advertisements of books for and against
Spiritualism,most Church newspapers willnot publish
any advertisements of books on Spiritualismand only
articles against Spiritualism. They remind me of a
boy who has blown up a soap bubble, and who
protects it from every breathof wind in case it bursts.
If the Church doctrines were founded on a solid basis
of truth there would be no need for any fear, as truth
can always protect itself. The clergy to—day are
either misrepresenting Spiritualism or using their
exertions in other directions to keep the people from
knowing about it. The more theyvituperate and lie
the nearer is coming the collapse of the whole edifice
of creeds, dogmas, and superstition.
The clergyadd nothingto thesum of human know-
ledge, they produce nothing, and take the tenth
from all the produce,of the land for work similar to
what is done in Spiritualist Churches voluntarily
Another Reformation needed. 153
and wholeheartedly.* The public in their ignorance
pay heavily to be taught error, whereas, when they
become sufficiently intelligent, truth will be revealed
as they can receiveiit from the higher intelligences of
the Etheric World. The clergy can officiate at
marriages, which can be done equally well by the
Registrar in a Church, sprinkle water on infants,
perform before the altar, and pronounce meaningless-
words at the grave side, and millions of pounds
are spent annually to keep this class in comfort
while millions of would-be producers are in poverty.
They flourish on ignorance, and where the people-
are most ignorant priests are most numerous. They
excel in the art of devising reasons Why the people
should never think for themselves, and they have-
been the greatest obstacle to progress recorded in
history. They keep the people in ignorance and
then take credit for comforting them in trouble,
sickness, old age, and bereavement, whereas if the
people were encouragedand helped to thinkfor them-
selves their ministrations would not be required.
Those of us who are known to have been in-
touch with the Etheric World are daily in receipt of
a large correspondencefrom people in trouble, people
in sorrow, and people who are losing all hope.
Those people have lost faith and belief in the old
religion and they turn to us for guidance and for
comfort. Those who are paid to do this work have
failedthe people, and this is becomingmore and more
39 Spiritualist Churches and Sunday Schools are all run by voluntary
eflort, though the speaker and clairvoyant at the Church Service
usually get a small fee. Funeral services are conducted voluntarily,
and so also are all the social services connected with each Church.
Those in trouble or sickness are helped and cared for by voluntary
helpers. Most Churches have healing circles at which all help
is voluntary.
154 The Rock of Truth.
generally recognised. If the Church leaders could
see the correspondence which comes into my house
every day from people who have been kept from
suicide, who have been kept from the asylum, and
who have regained hope and received comfort, as the
result of the help, comfort and guidance Spiritualism
has been able to give them, they would realise how
lamentablythe Church has neglected its opportunity,
and how disastrously it is failingin its duty.*
It would be difficult to count the number of
‘people who have told me of the help Spiritualism has
given them in the darkest hour of their sorrow.
This testimony is poured out on all hands. Just the
other day a woman spoke to me after one of my
meetings and told me she had recently lost her hus-
band. The vicar had called, and the only consola-
tion he could offer her was to suggest thatshe should
attend communion. “
How will this satisfy me that
my husband still lives?” she asked him. To which
he answered, “
We have the blessed hope of ever-
lasting life through Jesus Christ our Lord.” She
replied, “Whatever is thegood of hope? I want help
from someone who knows, not from someone who
hopes only.” Thus he left her, and she told me that
what I had told her that night in my address was the
first real comfort she had experienced since her hus-
-band's passing. I put her in touch with a good
Medium, and great was her delight in hearing her
SF The following is an extract from a letter from a clergyman who is
one of the London Missionary So,ciety’s missionaries on an island
in the Pacific. He is devoting his life there to work amongst
the Iepers:—“I am most happy and overjoyed with On the Edge
of the Etheric. This is the Gospel. All goodness is worth while
in a way I never understood before.” I give this extract to show
that self—sacrifice will not cease when Spiritualism takes the place
of Christianity.
Another Reformation needed. 155
husband speak to her and prove without doubt that
he still lived and that they would meet again.*
In this country alone many millions of pounds
are being spent annually by the community to main-
tain parsons and churches for the purpose of pre-
serving ancient and worn—out creeds and dogmas.
These parsons are securely entrenched in their
positions, as the majority of them are entitled to
emoluments which it is very difficult for the people
to divert into other channels. In the Church of
England the people have no say as to who is to be
their parson. He is appointed by a patron who may
have no interest in the congregation, but he owns
the living as an investment. These livings are
bought and sold, and the people accept this system
like sheep as they do everything else in connection
with the Church. In Scotland this scandal was
swept away ninety years ago.
Our religious leaders feel they are safe and
comfortable, and they thinkthat all they have to do
is to continue as their predecessors did and repeat
the sam-e worn—out formulae. But it will not do. Im-
-‘*1 arranged that this lady should go quite anonymously and no one
would know who she was. She travelled 200 miles to sit with
the Medium, so she was consequently a stranger to him. The
following are some extracts from her long letter reporting to
me the results obtained :—
“You asked me to let you know the result of my sitting.
I cannot express my gratitude for all your kindness to me. It
is beyond words. I had a most successful sitting. Many friends
spoke to me by the direct voice. My husband spoke to me, using
his pet name for me, and giving his own name correctly. It
was all most convincing. I managed to arrange a second sitting
and this was as good as the first. I have been truly comforted
and convinced."
This is only one of many hundreds of similar letters I have received
from people who have obtained conviction and comfort as the
result of the contact made with the Etheric World through
mediumship.
156 The Rock of Truth.
mediately prior to the Reformation the same com-
placencywas exhibitedby the priests of what we now
call theChurch of Rome. Then men arose and led the
peopleinto a new and different line of thought. What
happenedthenis happeningto—day, slowlyand surely,
and gradually the Church is becomingalarmed at the
numberof desertions among its adherents. Thosewho
doubt my word have only to attend the Spiritualist
service in the Queen’s Hall every Sunday and see
that vast hall packed to the roof. Spiritualists can
rightly claim that they conduct the world’s largest
religious service every Sunday of the year. Where-
ever there is a Spiritualists’ propaganda meeting
throughoutthe country the hall is packedto capacity.
The largest halls are easilyfilledin every town in the
land. The people are desperately anxious to find
the truth, which they cannot get in the Churches.’
Everywhere the Spiritualist Churches are packed;
theotherSundayhundreds were turned away from the
Queen’s Hall. Owing, however, to the influenceof
the Church, the British Broadcasting Corporation
will not broadcast a Spiritualist Service.
One by one, thoughonlyhere and there, parsons
are realising that the old dogmas and creeds are dead
and thattheChurch must adopt Spiritualismor perish.
'All honour to them for their courage and foresight,
but thegreat majority,had theythewilland theknow-
ledge to do so, which I doubt, fear to take the lead
and are led by the least intelligent of their congrega-
tions. There are some Spiritualists who believethat
the Church will adopt Spiritualism, lock, stock and
barrel, and discard in one fell swoop all its dogmas.
and doctrines. Others think that Spiritualism will‘
Another Reformation needed. 157
permeate the teachingof the Churches slowly,just as
the belief in evolution did. Personally I believe in
theleaveningprocess as theone likelyto happen, but,
however it occurs, come it will. It is only a matter
of time.
Historians of the future will have the same
old story to tell, namely, the Church which claims
to be divinely inspired being led into the way
of truth, never leading; alwaysreactionary,and only
accepting something better when forced to do so.
If truth only had been the watchword of the Church
and if we had heard less of divine authority,how
differently religion would be looked upon to—day!
Fortunately,at long last, the people are now differen-
tiating between Religion and Superstition. What
goes under the name of Christianity is superstition ;
true Religion is somethingvery different.
CHAPTER VI.
RECONSTRUCTION.
THE reason why I have given so much space to
the consideration of the Christian religion is that
so many earnest and devout people find that their
belief in Christianity makes it impossible for them to
accept the teachingsof Spiritualism. The last thingI
wish to do is to unsettle anyone’s beliefsregardingthe
great fundamental issues of life and death. If I
thoughtI was doing this I should be thefirst to regret
it. Some of those who have read this book thus far
may think that I have tried to destroy all that they
hold most dear. If they will read to the end of the
book they will understand that I have only pulled
down for the purpose of buildingup.
History shows us that in the past the majority
of the people have always been opposed to change
of any kind, either in politics or in religion. Both
political and religious reformers have had to suffer
from the criticism and enmity of those who believed
that what is, must always be. In earlier times those
who wished to change the political or religious views
of the people had to suffer imprisonment and often
torture. However, in our day and generation all
that need be expected by would—be reformers is
criticism and perhaps abuse.
At the risk of repetition, I wish to make my
position quite clear, so that there may be no mis-
understanding. Christianity, it will be admitted by
everybody, originated in an age of intense ignorance.
It was born at a time when hardly anyone could write
Reconstruction. 159‘.
or read, and even those who could write did so in a
very haphazard fashion. At that time paper was.
unknown, and anythingthat was written was written.
on papyrus, manufactured from reeds and rushes.
Accuracy of speech or thought was hardly known..
Facts had not the value then that they have now,
and greatly exaggerated stories were told and cir—-
culated about events, especially when those events.
were of an unusual character. Anythingunusual or
not understood was considered to be the direct act of'
God or Gods.
It is only within the last few centuries that we
have come to realise that the, Universe is governed"
by law and order, and that every event is but one‘-
incident in an unbroken chain of cause and effect.
The workingsof nature in years gone by were not in
the least understood. Nineteen hundred years ago»-
nothing whatever was known by the masses about
Astronomy, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, the art of’
healing, or any of the other sciences. Only a very
few could read or write. For the most part people
were cruel beyond measure, and held life of little’-
value and thought nothing of human suffering. In.
Palestine, at the time of the birthof Jesus, thepeople
were more ignorant and more uncivilisedthan are the"
Arabs in North Africa to-day. They were poor,
ignorant, and superstitious.
From this well of ignorance the majority in
Europe and America draw all their information with
regard to their religious beliefs. In the old days.
they drank long and deep, but as they advanced in
intelligence the draughts became lighter and less
frequent-. What, then, is the position to-day with
160 The Rock of Truth.
regard to this source of knowledge? Simplythis : a
large section of the Christian community still hold to
the old beliefs, but in a much more feeble way than
-of yore, while there is a large and increasing section
to whom the claims of Christianity make no appeal.
Though they may be nominally Christians, they are
absolutely indifferent to the whole subject. In other
words, orthodox religion makes no appeal to them.
They hold the View that their duty in life is to do the
‘best theycan, and if there is another life after death
they will take the consequences of what they have
done. A much smaller section have no religion
whatever, and are strongly anti-Christian, as the
result of the false claims made by Christianity,
believingthat all religion is superstition which should
‘be avoided by every sensible thinking man and.
woman.
Lastly,we come to theincreasingbody of people
called Spiritualists, who hold the View that the basis
of all religion is the same, and that what is called
religion officially is nothing more than superstition.
Theybelievethatwe are destined for somethingbetter
and greater than this world, but that owing to ignor-
.ance man has invented beliefsand ideas which, though
originating in his religious instinct, have little to do
with true religion. Religion and Superstition are
“two different things. Superstition is that which has
accumulated round religion. Religion is a central
truth in man’s life, which has alwaysbeen and always
will be. One might say that superstitions come and
go but religion goes on for ever.
Now superstition and religion are ofter mixed
cup and confused. People think, for instance, that
Reconstruction.
’
161
theyare religious if theygo to Church ; if theyattend
Holy Communion ; if they cease from doing certain
thingson Holy Days ; if theyread the Bible ; if they
repeat prayers, and if theybelievecertain words and
certain documents to be inspired by God. Less
civilised people believe in offering up sacrifices, or
beating tom-toms, or worshipping images. Those
outward forms and ceremonies have, however,
nothingwhatever to do with real religion. They are
the draperies, the superstition which surrounds it.
Real religion does not consist in believingthat God,
themaker of thisimmense Universe, which no human
mind is capable of fathorning, came down to earth ‘
and lived for two years wandering about Palestine.
Neither is it religion to consider a certain Book is
holyand inspired by God. It is not religion to repeat
certain words either by yourself or after a parson,
or to partake of Holy Communion, whether you con-
sider that what you, eat and drink is part of God, or
the service is only one of remembrance. These
things are only the clothes that have been put on to
religion; religion is the something underneath the
outward drapery.
Doubtless all those acts and formulaewhich have
accompaniedreligion were needful until thetime came
when we could realise better our true position in the
Universe. We are all the product of our times, and
if our ancestors evolved a creed it was done for an
object, and if theysacrificedhuman beingsor animals
it was also done for an object, the object being to
satisfy some human longing and desire. We have
evolved beyond human sacrifice, and as we have so
done, so shall we evolve from creeds and dogmas,
L
162 The Rock of Truth.
Holy Books and Holy Institutions. History un-
doubtedly shows that everywhere creeds, dogmas,
holy books and holy churches have been abused,
though they have given great comfort _and help to
many.
We have now arrived at a stage in our evolution
when intelligent people find full satisfaction for the
religious instinct in the knowledge we now possess,
without having recourse to the past. We now know
from thedefinite and verifiableinformationwe receive
from the Etheric World that we are here for a pur-
pose, that our life on the earth is only a preparation
for a life in a better place, and thatplaceis the Etheric
World which surrounds us and interpenetrates this
earth. We now can converse with those who have
passed on, whom Christians call dead. In the
Etheric World it is not those who believed in a par-
ticular creed who are the happiest, and those on earth
who thinksuch a beliefnecessary are mistaken. We
now find that as we live here so shall we live there.
If we live up to our highest ideals nothing more is
expected from us. This constitutes true religion.
There is no necessity to attend Church, to read the
Bible, to repeat creeds or prayers, in order to reach
this other world, as it is as natural for us to pass into
the Etheric World as it is for us to enter this world.
Our birth took place with no efiort on our part-
Our reachingthe Etheric World will take place like-
wise with no effort on our part. If we prefer to live a
debased life on earth, if we prefer to be cruel rather
thankind, if we prefer to thinkof ourselves only and
never of others, then we shall mix with those of a.
similarkind in the EthericWorld. It is all a question
Reconstruction. 163
of desire. If we desire something different, some-
thingbetter, and if we give our thoughtson this earth
to the development of our characters, and try to
mould our characters so that they get better instead
of worse, then in the next world we shall find our-
selves in the company of those who have the same
ideals and aspirations in common, people of all races.
and religions.
It is‘ a well—known fact that often those who‘
make much profession lead the most selfish
lives, and that those who make little profession:
lead the most unselfish lives. Sin is selfishness.
The more unselfish we are, the less sinful we.-
are, and the more selfish we are, the more sinful we-
are. I have spoken to those in the Etheric:
World who held strong dogmatic beliefs on earth,
and I find that they are not so happy as others.
who have also passed on who lived good, unselfish
lives on earth, ignoring entirely creeds and dogmas.
Dogmas and creeds make for selfishness. The dog--
matists and doctrinaires have no better a place than
those who gave no thoughtto these matters and Who-
lived their lives to the best of their ability,unselfishly
and for the good of others. If the former continue-
to retain their views, they sink to a lower state of"
intelligence and mix with those of similar mentality.
We do not think it is necessary, on going a
journey to another country, to commit ourselves to‘
certain beliefs before we shall be allowed to enter it ;
nor need we do so before starting on thejourney that
lies before us at death. There is nothingmysterious.
about it, and if We were all intelligent enough we-
should not require to be at the expense of keeping-
164 The Rock of Truth.
parsons to repeat creeds and go throughvarious acts
of devotion, in the beliefthatby so doing our position
.at death will be better than it would be otherwise.
I have never forgotten a message which came
-through at a séance from one speaking from the
Etheric World to which he had passed at death. It
was as follows :—“ God never meant religion to be
a mystery. It is man who has made it so. His
handiworkis plain enough for all to understand, and
religion was never meant to be in any way different.
What should be simple has been made obscure.
You have but to do your best—no one can do better,
and the future will gradually unfold before you and
your duty be made clear.”
This is surely easy for everyone to follow, and
what a gain it will be to mankind when all realise that
they have been making difficulties where no difficul-
ties exist. They have been adding to life’s burdens
by making themselves believe a certain Book was
holy, or a certain Church was holy, or a certain act
was holy, or a certain belief was holy and pleasing
in the sight of God.
Intelligent people must realise that Infinite In-
telligence is absolutely indifferent as to whether we
believethe Bible to be inspired by God, or that God
became man and dwelt with us or did not; that
Infinite Intelligence cares nothing for the repetition
of creeds, or the repeatingof prayers, or the counting
of beads. All these man—made attempts to placate
the Almighty originate in the fear of the unknown.
They are the result of ignorance, and will survive
only so long as man is ignorant of his true position
in the Universe.
What is man's true position in this illimitable
Reconstruction. 165
Universe, the knowledge of which year by year
seems to be more and more unfolding itself to us?
As this book proceeds I hope to be able to go more
deeply into this question, but first let us consider it
in as simple words as possible. Why are we here -
and what is our destiny? These questions have
been answered so differently in the past that even
with our increased knowledge one hesitates to be
dogmatic, and were it not for the knowledge
that I have obtained from the Etheric World;
I should hesitate to answer it at all. Before going
into the question deeply, let me tell you what was
told by one who has joined the great majority
and knows more than We do. His words were as
follows :—
“
You are just as much an Etheric Being now
as you will ever be. You are just as much in the
Etheric World now as you will ever be, only you do-
not appreciate the fact in consequence of your having
a physical body attuned to physical surroundings.
The Etheric World is about and around you, and at
death when you discard your physical body you are
in the Etheric World without having to travel any
distance to get there. You becameimmortal at your"
birth, and you are just as immortal now as you will
ever be. Your physical body covers your etheric"
body, and you cannot appreciate your etheric body
becauseit is made up of substance at a higher rate of
vibration than your physical eyes can see. When
you die you will appreciate the ethericbody and cease
to appreciate your physical body. Your new body
grows more and more refined as time passes, and you
will rise to higher and higher planes of consciousness.
You will see more and you will see further. Your
will hear more and you will hear more clearly. Any
deformities you have will be corrected here. If your
166 The Rock of Truth.
have lost a leg or arm you will have it here, as it was
only the physical arm or leg you lost. Your under-
standing will be enlarged, and you will be more con-
scious of the beautiesof your surroundings than you
.are in thephysicalbody. Your scope of usefulness will
beextended beyondthelimit of your present imagina-
tion. You will not have to trouble about money,
about earning a livelihood, about eating or about
clothes, or about a house to live in, as your mind will
3be in so much greater control of your surroundings
that it will be able to mould those surroundings to
meet your desires. There will be no more pain or
sorrow or regret, no more grieving over separation
after your loved ones from the earth have joined you.
You will cease to regret the errors of thepast through
-rectifying past mistakes. You will then enter on a
life of eternal progress and everlastingblessedness.”
From the foregoing it will be seen how futile it
is on earthto give much thoughtto thosethingswhich
many people consider of such paramount importance,
such as titles, as you drop them when you enter the
Etheric World.
As this book proceeds our correct outlook on life
will become clearer; but before I close this chapter
I wish to revert to the subject I discussed at the com-
mencement,namely,thereason why I have in previous
chapters given so much consideration to the Christian
Faith. The reason, I repeat, is that the Chris-
tian Faith is the great stumbling block to the accep-
tance of Spiritualism in Christian countries. Chris-
tians quote Biblical texts to show that God does not
mean us to converse with the dead. They quote
texts written byignorantpeoplein an age of ignorance,
who burned witches and perpetrated other ghastly
cruelties, While they omit to obey the instructions
Reconstruction. 167
given in the texts which follow and precede those
texts relating to conversing with the departed.
Some people take the trouble to try to explain
that those texts refer to necromancy, which has
nothingwhatever to do with Spiritualism ; but per-
sonally I do not think it is worth while to trouble
oneself as to whether those texts do refer to necro-
mancy or to communication with the departed. To
me they are of no value whatever. They are not
God-inspired, and there is no more reason why they
should be taken as rules for our lives in the twentieth
century than should the instructions contained in the
-code of Hammurabi, King of Babylon, one of the
greatest and best codes of morals ever written by the
ancients, and greatly superior to the teachings of the
Old Testament. Hammurabi lived in the year
1550 B.C., long before a book of the Old Testament
was written.
'Again, people say that it cannot be right to con-
verse with the departed, as those who speak to us
say they are happy and in a better world, though
many of those who do communicate are known not
to have been Christian people on earth. Christians
say this is a proof that it is the Devil or his angels
who assume those personalities in order to deceive
us and subvert our belief in Jesus as the saviour of
mankind. They argue that, in this surreptitious
manner, the servants of the Devilwill make it all the
more certain that a larger consignment of the human
race will find their way to Hell than would otherwise
have been the case. This is a very ingenious pro-
position, but I do not believeit ; neitherdo I believe,
for the reasons previously given in this book, that
168 The Rock of Truth.
God came to earth and had any scheme of salvation
T
through the death of Himself on the cross.
One further objection that Christians have to
Spiritualism is that we are calling back the dead and
that this is contrary to God’s Holy Word. This
can be easily answered, because it is absolutely,
untrue. No one on earth calls back the dead. It is
our friends on the other side who come back of their
own accord, because they wish us to know that they
are alive and happy, and because they wish to help
to rid mankind of all the superstitions which surround
religion. They realise how much we are handi-
capped by our ignorance, how much time we waste
in forms and ceremonies, and how much we suffer
through trying to believe impossible dogmas and
doctrines. They want to tell us how simple a matter
it all is, and that we have to believe nothing un-
natural ; that all we have to do is to try to live good
and upright lives. They are specially anxious to let
us know that they are alive because Christianity
teaches that the dead lie in their graves until some
future Resurrection day. Until the advent of Spirit-
ualism this was generally believed. I am now told
that this belief is not held generally, and probably
it is not, though the Church writings and hymns
still convey this impression. Spiritualismhas played
its part in educating the people on the subject.
It is because I believe that Spiritualism is being
handicapped and thwarted by orthodox Christians,
throughignorance, thatI have tried to show thatthere
is no basis for the beliefsof Christianity. Christians,
greatly as they err, certainly take life seriously and
are the very people who should be Spiritualists, as,
Reconstmction. 169‘
except Spiritualists, they are the people who more-
than others take the view that life on earth is more
than it really seems to be. Christians, throughtheir
ignorance and through their attachment to a Holy,
Book which they think is divinely inspired, are ob--
structing the spread of a great revelation which is-
slowly but surely coming to enlighten the earth.
Through their ignorance they are preventing a
natural development of those faculties inherent in
every man and woman, which may be described as
the Psychic gift. Little do they realise what pain
and suffering and disappointment they are causing"
their friends and relatives in the Etheric World who
wish to come back and communicate with them, but
who rarely get a chance to let their friends on earth
know where they are, and how they are, because
few Christians will attend séances.
We are still very ignorant of many things, and
the public Press is just a reflectionof the public mind.
In the old days crowds gathered from all directions
to see a witch burned—anythingfor a change from
the monotony of life. The mentality of the people
to—day has only changed to a degree, and instead of
paying priests to burn witches the public buys news-
papers which "expose” Mediums. Of course news-
papers would not do so if their readers did not
approve, just as parsons would not have burned
witches if they had not received the support of their
congregations.
The latest style of “Witch Hunt” takes the
form of “
Medium Exposure.” If a supply of
general news runs dry somethingmust be found to
stimulate interest, so some prominent Medium is
170 The Rock of Truth.
fastened on to provide a
‘ ‘
sensation.’’
The “
stunt ”
takes the form of an
“
exposure.” It is much more
exciting to read about a Medium beingexposed than
to read that a Medium has been found genuine, and
themore prominent the Medium the greater the pub-
licity given to the “exposure.”
In 1931 a Daily Mail reporter was present at a
trance address given by a Medium named Mrs.
Meurig Morris, and the reporter, who knew little
about Spiritualism, wrote about her as if she were a
fraud. The Daily Mail posters were prominently
displayed everywhere announcing the “exposure.”
Big headlines appeared in the paper, and all who did
not know Mrs. Meurig Morris, one of the most
charming and delightful of ladies, naturally believed
that she was a fraud.
Until recently all Mediums had to submit to
these so—called Press exposures, but in this instance
Mrs. Meurig Morris took the DailyMailto court and
retrieved her character, for although the jury found
for the defendants on the plea of fair comment on a
matter of public interest, their verdict concluded with
the words, “
we do not consider that any allegations
of fraud or dishonesty have been proved.”
If a woman is held to be honest it is difficult to
understand how it can be fair comment to say publicly
-that she has been “found out.” Such a verdict
surely would never have been given in an ordinary
case of slander ; instead heavy damages would have
been obtained by the one slandered, but in this case
the person slandered was a Medium. The country
still contains many people who believe that no
Medium can be genuine, and that all Mediums are
Reconstruction. 171
the agents of the devil. It is only necessary for one
or two members of a juryto hold to this view to
prevent justice being done.
Followingthis ‘
‘exposure’’
came theJohn Myers
exposure by the Sunday Dispatch, of thesame owner-
ship as the DailyMail. Myers had become famous
.as a Spirit photographer. In his presence, when a
photograph was taken, photographs, or what are
called “extras,” of people who had died appeared
on the plate as well as the photograph of the sitter. ,
Many of these extras were recognised as friends or
relatives of the sitters. Here was another chance
for the sensational journalist. The editor employed
‘the Marquess of Donegall, the writer of his society
gossip page, who was quite ignorant of the sub-
ject of Psychic photography,to arrange a sitting with
Myers.
Lord Donegall, on behalf of the newspaper,
offered Myers £100 for a sitting. This offer he
refused, but said he would give Lord Donegall a
sitting free. It was not a matter out of which he
wished to make money. The first sitting under
test conditions was satisfactory,and two extras were
-obtained. Then a request was made for another
sitting, which was granted. On this occasion the
Sunday Dispatch did not play the game, as, without
the knowledge of Myers or any of his friends, the
packet of plates was opened beforehand, marked,
and then closed up again so cleverly that no
‘suspicion was aroused. Besides this, a slide, which
-did not even fit Myers’ camera, was substituted for
‘one of his slides. Lord Donegall said afterwards
that this was all done as part of the test, but as
172 The Rhck of Truth.
various people were concerned in the operation, how
is anyone to know whlat really occurred? N0 one
was present to watch the interests of Myers when the
packet was secretly opened.
Now, because atl the second sitting an extra
appeared on a plate which had no mark on it,
the Sunday Dispatch, on the following Sunday,
announced in big head-lines on its front page that
John Myers had been “exposed.” If the public
had only known the facts it would have decided that
the Sunday Dispatch had exposed itself. When a
test is being made it is not fair to open secretly the
packet of plates beforehand, or cunningly substitute-
a slide, and when platels have to be marked for iden-
tification they should be marked in the presence of
the Medium or one of his representatives. Otherwise-
who is to know whethler all the plates are marked,
and who is to know whether a faked extra was not
put on theplate before
Reconstruction. 173
that their committee of photographic experts, under
the most stringent supervision, had obtained five ex-
cellent extras on specially—rnarkedplates which made
trickery impossible. Lord Donegall was challenged
to a public debate by a well-known Spiritualist, but
he wisely refused to accept the challenge. Neither
have I seen the Sunday Dispatch refer to the
report of Psychic News committee comprising the
leading photographers in London. This committee
was formed as the result of the “
exposure," and at
their second test sitting theyobtained four “
extras
"
on a specially marked plate. A copy of this report
was sent to the editor, only to be ignored. ‘
Since the
exposure, Myers has provedhis powers over and over
again by giving test sittings to professional photo-
graphers, who have been amazed by the results
obtained.
This is not written as a defence of either Mrs.
Meurig Morris or John Myers. I know them both ;
the former is so transparentlyhonest thatthis charac-
teristic of her is obvious to anyone. .
Those who
know Mr. Myers believethathe is incapableof deceit.
He is a dentist by profession, and has his reputationto
consider. That is all I need to say with regard to
the Mediums involved in these two so—called “ex-
posures.”
The point I wish to emphasise is that Medium-
hunting is still the sport of the public,'through the
Press. Every Press investigation is undertaken for
the purpose of providingnews, and up to the present
Medium exposures have assisted the circulation of,
i
the newspaper concerned. Gradually, however, our
newspapers are findingout thatthe publicare thinking
174 The Rock of Truth.
for themselves, and realising that there is much more
than trickery and humbug in Spiritualism, and they
are finding also that Medium—hunting has not the»
appeal to the public that it had a few years ago.
However, so long as the people are ignorant enough
to like this milder form of “
witch burning," so long
will it be provided for them.
Can we expect the masses to be otherwise than
ignorant when theyare encouraged, as theyare from-
nearly every pulpit in Christendom, to look on
Mediums as frauds? Every leadingparson who de-
nounces Spiritualism and Mediums is reported in the
newspapers, thoughwithinthelast few years therehas
been a much fairer tendency observable, and several
newspapers have given prominent announcement to
the successful results achieved in this field of inves-
tigation by men of science. Afterthe Meurig Morris
affair the Daily Mail, to its credit, conducted the
fairest and most impartial investigationof Spiritualism
ever conducted by a newspaper, and its conclusions
were certainly all in favour of the view that Spirit-
ualism had justified its claims, and was a subject
worthy to be taken seriously by everyone.
In this so-called civilised land of ours, one of our
most precious possessions, our Mediums, are the butt
of the ignorant Church and the thoughtless masses.
The first denounces them so that it can go on
deceiving the people, and the people denounce them
because they do not realise that the Church is mis-
leading them.
When a Medium is dishonest he is quickly ex-
posed by Spiritualists themselves, not as a stunt but
as an act of discipline. Just because here and there
Reconstruction. 175
a pseudo—Medium has to be exposed by Spiritualists,.
just as a clergyman has to be unfrocked, it does not
follow that the great majority are frauds; far from-
it. Up till now, however, it has benefitedthe Press
and theChurch to
‘
‘expose’’
Mediums, and as longas
it does so this will go on. It is in the hands of
the public to stop it, and until they do so»
they will continue to get a one—sided view of
Spiritualism, to their great loss. Mediumship is so-
new to the general public that press “exposures”
have proved renumerative, but gradually,as the true
meaning of Mediumship is realised, these "
ex-
posures” will cease, and honest Mediums will feel’
safe. The next step is the withdrawal from the
statute book of the Witchcraft Act enacted by those
who burned witches, thinkingtheywere possessed of
Devils.
Spiritualism will come into its own in time, and‘
Spiritualists must do all in their power to illumine~
the darkened minds of those who guide the destinies
of both Church and State. Anyone who attends.
thelarge Spiritualist meetingswhich are beingheld all
over the country must be impressed by the enormous-
crowds who gather there. Wherever Spiritualist
meetings are held, the largest halls available are
packed. I have spoken in most of the great cities
in Great Britain, in the largest halls, and there was.
seldom a vacant seat. I do this work as a duty,
acceptingneitherfee nor travellingexpenses, because-
the public are clamouring for the truth which only
Spiritualism can give. One of the most impressive-
sights I have ever witnessed was that of six thousand
people, in the Albert Hall, last Armistice Sunday at.
176 .
The Rock of Truth.
3 Spiritualist Armistice service. When the chairman
asked that all would stand up who had had personal
communication with their friends on the other side,
more than three-quarters of the large audience rose
to their feet.
Here is testimony enough, testimony to satisfy
the enquirer without his having to rely on ancient
creeds or the opinion of St. Paul or Socrates or
Cicero. All those men believedin survival, but their
ideas are very crudely conveyedto us, compared with
the way the evidence for survival is put forward by
hundreds of thousands of responsible people in the
"year 1933.
The idea of immortality is not confined to
a few individuals who lived long ago; it is held
in common by all the present and past religions
of the world. It has always puzzled me why the
Christian religion should adopt its ideas of death and
of the resurrection of the dead from the ancient
Egyptians, as it has done through the teaching of
‘St. Paul. The ancient Egyptians embalmed their
-dead because they believed that the physical bodies
would be re—animated by the soul on its return to
earth at the end of the world, when thedead would all
rise in their resuscitated physical bodies. Paul
-obtained his views of the resurrection from the
opinions which had prevailed in Egypt thousands of
years before Christ. The Egyptian view was
accepted by the Pauline school of thought and
adopted at the Council of Nicaea, as they did not
know any better. It was the best they could arrive
at with their limited knowledge, but now with our
greater knowledge we know that this view of death
is a travesty of the truth.
Reconstruction. 177
Spiritualism provides the greatest support man-
kind has ever received to justify the religious instinct
within him. It has proved that man’s instinct that
this life is a preparation for somethingbetter is fully
justified. It is the greatest enemy of injustice. It is
the greatest enemy of materialism. It is the greatest
enemy of cruelty. When the world adopts Spirit-
ualism and all that Spiritualism stands for, wars will
cease and our social conditions will improve beyond
recognition. Had Spiritualism been allowed to
develop naturally,and had our ancestors not been so
ignorant as to kill off all the Mediums, it is reasonable
to believe that our social conditions to-day would
have been vastly better than they are, and I do not
hesitate to say thatwe should never have experienced
thetragedy of the Great War of 1914-1918 which was
caused by the material aspirations of Christian Ger-
many. That country had no conception of any
interests beyondthose of this earth, and this outlook
was due to the fact that more Mediums had been
destoyed in Germanythan in any other country in the
world.
If we went back to-day to the doings of our
ancestors and tried throughphysicalmeans or legisla-
tion to obliterate Mediumship, the world would sink
into a state of gross materialism,and humanity would
be destroyed in a sea of poison gas or some other
equal abomination. Only when humanity realises
thatlife on earth is a preparationfor somethingbetter
than this world gives, will lust and greed end for
something which we have not got, and when this
happens wars will cease and so also will poverty,
misery, and slumdom. Our entire social system,
when thiscomes about, willbe remodelled. Let each
M
178 The Rock of Truth.
one of us be frank with ourselves and thinkas rational
individuals, and let each one of us realise thatwe have
been too long harnessed to the dogmas of dead
theologians, who gave to their fellow men only what
they thought was the truth. Let us remember that
thosemen were human like ourselves and, beingmore
ignorant, were more liable to error. They knew
nothing of the sciences, and they knew nothing of
communication with the Etheric World.
Let us in future, when reading the Bible, read
it as we would read any other book, admire its
beauties, delight in its stories, realising that it is but
the record of a nation's attempt to find God, but let
us never attribute its follies, cruelties, and barbarous
laws to the Creator of the Universe. Let us remem-
ber thattheywere the product of the barbarous age in
which they were written, and always realise that the
Bible is just a story of the past. Never let us be so
wicked as to attribute its teaching to the Maker of
heaven and earth, and call it the Word of God. Let
us rememberthattheChristian Church, as it is to—day,
is similar to what the Jewish Church was in the days
of Jesus, and that if he were on earth to-day he
would call the Christian Church a whited sepulchre,
sheltering the dead bones of the past. He would
direct our thoughts forward to the life to come and
not to the worship of the dead past, and he would call
the priests of Christendom blind leaders of the blind.
We, in the twentieth century, with our vastly
increased knowledge, must not be enslaved by the
theories and doctrines of the past. We must think
for ourselves on the basis of modern knowledge.
We must put aside all the dogmas and creeds which
Reconstruction. 179'
have been thought to be essential, and which we
should now realise are quite unessential. We
must not close our minds to reason when we open a
Bible or enter a Church. If we follow these prin-
ciples it will be possiblefor all of us, with open minds,.
to consider without prejudice the revelation which is
coming through to our world, and which goes under
the name of Spiritualism.
Now that I have cleared the ground I can begin
to construct a new edifice. Consequently the next
chapter will be a consideration of what Spiritualism
is, and what it stands for.
PART II.
CHAPTER VII.
SPIRITUALISM, AND WHAT IT
STANDS FOR.
SPIRITUALISMis not the faith of a sect or a cult; it
does not rest on tradition, nor on writings, ancient or
modern. It has no ecclesiasticalorganisation claiming
to interpret God’s purpose towards mankind. It has.
no forms and ceremonies, pomp or circumstance.
What Spiritualism stands for is a fact of the same-
nature as thefactthatwe exist. It is the onlyrevela-
tion that has ever come to man from a higher level of
intelligence than exists on earth. It does not depend’.
on the sayings or teachings of a past age, nor on
inspired writings. It rests fundamentallyon thefact
that communication takes place between the inhabi-
tants of this world and the inhabitants of the Etheric
World. This is a scientificallyestablished fact, and,
once it is accepted, What follows is natural.
Under the required conditions, that is, in the
presence of a Medium, voices quite apart from those
of the sitters or the Medium speak and can be recog-
nised. These voices are claimed to be the voices.
of those who once lived here on earth, who retain
their earth memories, and claim relationship where it
exists. They converse on subjects which concerned’
them and their friends while they lived on earth.
They tell us thattheyhave survived death, thatdeath:
is only an incident in life, and that it results only in a
change of appreciation of the conditions of life, as the
182 The Rock of Truth.
result of discarding the physical body. They tell us
that they have an Etheric Body, the exact duplicate
of the Physical Body, and that this etheric duplicate
was the real body on earth, which acted as the frame-
work of the physical body. They also state that
-they are living in a real, tangible world, inter-
penetrating and surrounding our earth, composed of
substance too fine for us in our physical bodies to
sense and appreciate.
Once this fact of communication between those
who once lived on earth and ourselves is accepted,
everythingthat was relegated to the region of faith
emerges into the full day of knowledge. Knowledge
takes the place of faith, and consequently errors and
conjectures are discarded.
We can converse freely with our friends in the
!Etheric World and with others whom we have never
known on earth, people belongingto all religions and
races. Though their environment is changed, the
means of communication by word of mouth is still
unaltered. They tell us that they live under better
and happier conditionsthanthosetheyknew on earth,
and none has ever expressed the wisH to come back
to live on earth. This fact at once disposes of the
creeds and dogmas of all religions, as we find that
entrance to the Etheric World does not necessitate
any passport. Those who have passed on from this
world to the EthericWorld, and who come back and
speak to us, tell us that they are living together
happilyin companionshipwiththosewho had difierent
beliefs _on earth, and even with those who had no
beliefs whatever. When asked questions on the
subject of belief they tell us that earth beliefs count
Spivitualism, and what it stands for.
i
183
for nothing with them, and that these are soon for-
gotten, after we leave the earth. This is not sur-
prising to intelligent people. Why should God wait
till we die to punish us? Could He not do so here
just as easily? Moreover, people of divergent
opinionslive happilytogetheron earth, so why should
they not in Heaven?
Our Etheric friends tell us that they can now
comprehend things more clearly, and have a better
understandingof the problems of existence than they
had on earth. They tell us that they are instructed
and guided by higher intelligences than their own,
and that these greater and wiser people were once
men and women like ourselves who lived on earth,
but having lived so much longer and being so much
more experiencedthanare our friends, their guidance
and help are of the greatest value to all wishing to
gain further knowledge and wisdom.
Here on earth we are limited in our ideas and in
all that appertains to sight and hearing and the other
senses. VVe may be likened to the Caddis worm
living at the bottom of a pond, which, when the day
comes for its liberation,sheds its sheath and becomes
the Caddis fly, with all the expansion of faculties
which such a change of condition implies. It can
now sense somethingof the beautiesof earth, which
hitherto had been denied to it. So with our friends
who have passed on. They have a wider vision and
a greater knowledge, and they use the opportunities
afforded them of conversing with us on earth to tell
us<something more about the Universe, something
about their world, which has the effect of increasing
our understanding,and makingus realise more clearly
184 The Rock of Truth.
the relationshipof each created thingto the Universe,
of which it is a part.
Just in so far as our capacity to understand in-
creases, are we given information from those in the
Etheric World, whose duty it is to guide and direct
us here on earth. The ordinary individual attending
a séance for the first time will doubtless get into
touch with some friend or relative who will without
difficulty give him ample proof that he still lives.
This satisfies the great majorityof enquirers, but only
to those who wish to get beyondordinary conversa-
tion is deeper knowledgeimparted. A high dignitary
of the Church of Englandrecentlypubliclyexpressed
the view that only trivial remarks were ever made at
séances. He had never been to a séance, but this is
what he thought was the case. If he had gone to
one and received trivial remarks, as he called them,
from friends of his on theother side who were anxious
to prove their existence in another world, the reason
of their being trivial would have been that his mind
was entirely limited to earth conditions. I was with
him once in the company of a man of eminence who
had made a great study of psychic phenomenaand the
conditions ruling in the Etheric World. Though
every opportunity was given to this churchman, he
never took the trouble to avail himself of the oppor-
tunity offered. His mind was not capable of grasping
the subject, and so it is with everyone save those
whose minds are capable of grasping the deeper
problems of life.
It is thereforeonly those who have kept an open
mind, and have put aside prejudice and are willingto
learn, who receive information surpassing that of
Spir-itua.lism, and what it stands for. 185
others, however learned, who have acquired their
knowledge only from what can be seen and heard
outside the séance room. Spiritualists are thus
guided by higher intelligences in the Etheric World,
and the basic teachings of Spiritualismcome from the
great minds of those who, though they have passed
throughdeath, yet endeavour to guide and help man-
kind on earth. The basis of their teaching is very
simple, so simple that the simplest of us can under-
stand it. The basis of Spiritualism is contained in
what are called the Seven Principles of Spiritualism
and are accepted by Spiritualists in every part of the
globe, not as an act of faith, but because the same
teachings are given from the Etheric World to all
who make contact with it, no matter where they be.
Those who call themselves Spiritualists believe
thatit can be acceptedas scientificallyproved that :—
(1) The universe is governed by Mind, com-
monly called God. That all we have
sensed, do sense, or will sense, is but Mind
expressing itself in some form or another.
(2) The existence and identity of the individual
continues after the change called death.
(3) Communication under suitable conditions
takes place between us here on earth and
the inhabitants of the Etheric World, into
which we shall all pass at death.
On these three fundamental principles, which Spirit-
ualists believeare scientificallyproved, the following
logical deductions are naturallydrawn from the infor-
mation which comes to us from thosewho have passed
on to this larger life.
(4) That our ethical conduct should be guided
186 The Rock of Truth.
by the golden rule, given first to the world
by the great Confucius, “
Whatsoever you
would that others would do to you, do it
also unto them.”
(5) That each individual is his own Saviour, and
that he cannot look to someone else to bear
his sins and sufier for his mistakes.
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 187
away, mankind will be knit together by one common
belief, as would always have been the case but
for ignorance. There is no darkness but ignorance.
Spiritualism is fillingthe world with intellectual light.
When mankindis bound togetherby the common link
-of Spiritualism, humanity will become as one family,
and thus will be brought about the brotherhood of
man, so longed for by the great minds of the past.
When mankindrealises his origin and his destiny and
is convinced that his conduct here will determine
his place hereafter, wars will cease, and our social
conditions will improve beyond anything we can
possiblyimagine. The time wasted trying to placate
the Almighty will be used for more useful purposes,
and man will at last have become a rational being.
Some, doubtless, though glad to have the
scientific support Spiritualismgives to their faith, still
feel the need of a personal Saviour or the performing
of some ceremonial. They have been imbued with
this idea since childhood, and nothing will change
them. They have certain fixed ideas, and nothing
will alter them. This being so, their faith satisfies
themand theyare happy. So be it ; but the number
of people holding these views is slowly dwindling,
and what satisfies them does not satisfy the average
thinkingman and woman, especially the young. If
Spiritualism had not come along to take the place of
the old dying faith, our younger generationand those
to come would have become atheists, denying every-
thing outside the physical universe. With the
increase of knowledge, and in the absence of
any proof for the claims the Church makes for
what it calls the supernatural, all belief in anything
188 The Rock of Truth.
above or beyondus would have vanished. In what
a different position religion would be in Russia to-day
if the Orthodox Church had not kept the people in
ignorance! If there were a Spiritualist Church in
every centre in Russia, as there is in Great Britain,
we should never hear of Anti-God campaigns or
similar propaganda.
With this brief introduction, let us now consider
the Seven Principlesof Spiritualismin greater detail.
THE FATHERHOOD OF GOD.
I have adopted this sub-title for convenience
sake. In the past the Fatherhood of God has been
taken in a very narrow sense. The Jews believed
that Jehovah was their special protector, and that
there was no other God but Jehovah. He was like
themselves, only more powerful, but just as cruel
and passionate. This peculiar and isolated view of
the Deity brought them into conflict with all the
surrounding nations and made them bigoted and
oppressive. But theirbeliefswere not unique. Every
other nation had its own God who was its special
protector, and Christians have always believed that
Jesus the Christ is their own special God, making
intercession for them in Heaven. Whatever Chris-
tians have done or do, has been or is done in the
name of this particular God, but besides him there
are two other Gods of equal importance. Jesus,
however, is the God who specially interests himself
in the doings of the Christian people. To Spirit-
ualists the doctrine of the Trinityis such an absurdity
that they cannot understand how any sane and
rational person can believe it. However, so it is.
Spiritualislm, and what it stands for. 189
Christians believe that there are three Gods, but
that these three Gods are only one God. I must
leave it at that and not waste time on this mathema-
tical puzzle. The onlyTrinitythatSpiritualistsunder-
stand is the Trinity of Mind, Etheric Body and
Physical Body. Here we have a three-in-oneentity
so long as we are on earth, but in the EthericWorld
it becomes two-in—one. We are a trinity, but a very
different trinity from thatof thetheologicalconception
of the Godhead. This, probably, is the origin of
the theological idea of a three-in-one God, but only
Spiritualists understand its true meaning, because
Spiritualists are told from the other world that the
Universe is made up of Mind, Etheric Substance,
and Physical Matter.
To Spiritualists, Mind, or the directing force of
the Universe, constitutes God, and the all-embracing
nature of this directing Mind is covered by the words
“The Fatherhood of God.” We are all part of
this directing and creating Mind, and through Mind
we are related to the guiding Intelligence of the
Universe. All membersof the human race, whether
here or in the Etheric World, are brothers joined
togetherby this common link. We thereforebelieve
that Mind, or God, has never had and never will
have any particular cult on which he particularlybe-
stows his blessing. Those Who claim this special
privilege do so through ignorance and conceit.
Though all the Gods of the past made in the
image of man must perish, yet man made under the
direction of Mind or God remains, and God in man
will reign eternally.
Next to the Fatherhood of God comes
190 The Rock of Truth.
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN.
One follows the other naturally. If we are all
part of God, We are all one family. The history
of man contains much of slavery, brutality and in-
justice. This has all come about as the result of
ignorance. Someone a little stronger, a little more
clever than the rest enslaved his fellows for his own
selfish ends. Man has been the sport and prey of
kings and priests. Through fear of starvation he
has been forced to cringe at the foot of the tyrant,
and through fear of the unknown he has supported
Churches and priests. He has carried on his back
the officials of Church and State, who have profited
by his ignorance. However, education is gradually
making mankind realise that he is not here to be
down-trodden by over-lords. Equal education gives
all the opportunity of becomingequal, but those with
finer minds will always take the lead.
Only a few years ago we found a great nation,
Germany, led by a small number of officials into the
most ghastly war in human history, which involved
the greater part of the civilised world. Up to within
a year or two ago, only the Roman CatholicChurch
ruled Spain, and in consequence Spain is one of the
most ignorant countries in the world. Many other
instances could be given from the beginningof history
of how a small minority or an individual has kept a
nation in ignorance and servitude, or driven it on to
war. The reason of course is that an uneducated
individual is like an animal. He knows enough to
get a bare existence, but just as man has combined
his reason with his labour has he advanced.
The ignorance amongst the masses is still pitiful,
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 191
and what it must have been some thousands of years-
ago can only be imagined. Man, by developing his-
mind, will free himself from his past miseries, and
raise himself in self-respect and independence.
Then let us pray that_come it may,
As come it will for a’ that,
That sense and worth o'er a’ the earth
May bear the gree and a’ that!
For a’ that, and a’ that,
It’s coming yet, for a’ that,
That man to man, the world o’er
Shall brothers be, for a’ that!
Such was the wish of Robert Burns 140 years ago,_.
and only gradually do we see those prophetic lines
being realised. Only last century Britain freed her-
self from the curse of the slave trade, as also did the
United States, but still to-day there are five million
slaves in Asia and Africa, and only the combined.
pressure of the civilised nations will ultimately bring"
this evil to an end. Let each one of us, within the
i
limits of the possible, take intelligent thought for the
future. Let each one of us, where possible, rescue
the fallen and help the helpless. Let us distribute
words of kindness, cheerfulness, and encouragement.
By doing all the good we can, by binding up the’
wounds of our fellow creatures, we are bringing‘
nearer the great day when the brotherhood of man.
shall become a reality and not a platitude. To
do all the good we can is to be religious in the real
sense of the word, to do all the good we can is to.-
be a saint, irrespective of theologicalbeliefs. To put
the star of hope in the midnight of despair, to help»
those in need of help, and to help those who sufler,
is true holiness. This is the religion of the future._
192 The Rock of Truth.
This is what Spiritualists mean by the brotherhood
of man.
Just in proportion as we cease to be the slaves
of our conditions shall we advance. Just as we place
a greater value on our rights does our position im-
prove, and just as we value more highly the rights
due to ourselves shall we recognise more the rights of
others. Just as we come to realise that this life is
the preparation for a better one, so shall we cease to
try to grab all we can for ourselves and work instead
for the common good. When we are prepared to
give to all what we claim for ourselves, then we shall
be truly civilised and the world will be fit to live in.
‘As it is to-day, every individual to a lesser extent,
and every nation to a greater extent, think only of
their own needs first, and the needs of others last,
whereas if all would work together for the common
good of the world, poverty would fade away and the
enormous sums spent in self-preservation, and pro-
moting superstition at home and abroad, would
be used to add to the wealth of the World,
instead of being used in keeping the people in
ignorance, or for destruction, and the preparation
for the destruction of what the labour of humanity
has put together. If the world could rid itself entirely
of its Napoleons of war and encourage instead its
inventors of instruments of cultivation, production,
and distribution, and if this policy were pursued for
the next fifty years, the hours of labour would be
halved, our pleasures would be doubled, and the joy
of living correspondinglyintensified.
I
Only within the last two hundred years has
man applied his intelligence to making the forces
f
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 193
of nature work for him to an extensive degree,
with the result that our country now supports
a larger population, and every one is working
shorter hours. As we get machines and the forces
of nature to do our work, in like proportion will our
toil lessen. In 1750 the population of the United
Kingdom was about ten millions, in 1932 about forty-
nine millions. To—day with the aid of machinery it
is estimated that we are producing in many industries
on the average one hundred times what was produced
in 1750, and theconsequence is thatwe are supporting
five times the population. The working day has
been reduced from sixteen to eight hours, and the
standard of living is vastly higher than it was then,
owing to the higher wages earned for less Work.
Moreover, when we can organise thingsbetter, as we
shall in time, and thus absorb theunemployedinto the
producing and distributive trades, the daily hours of
labour willcome down to six, and thestandard of living
will go on rising. Some day, if we go on developing
machinery to do our work at the rate we are doing
now, it should be possible for us to get all we need
for a high standard of living, by each one of us
working only one hour a day ; and why should that
be the end? The problem before us is going to be
how to spend our leisure, as more time becomes
available for recreation and better education. Chil-
dren some day will not leave school till eighteen years
of age instead of fourteen to—day.
When the time comes when machinerydoes our
work for us, a sound economic communism will
naturally follow. Capital and labour will auto-
maticallycease to function apart from the State ; but
N
194 The Rock of Truth.
this is so far ahead that it is not a matter of practical
politics to—day. The majorityto—day, however, have
luxuries denied to kings and nobles three hundred
years ago. Solomon had hundreds of wives, but no
carpets. His great temple was lit by rushes, if it
was lit at all. To-daysome of thehumblest dwellings
are lit by electric light. The working man in the
newer houses being built for him to—day has more
comforts and luxuries than had Queen Elizabeth.
In her day there were no steel pins, no stoves, no
cooking ranges, no baths, no carpets, no telephones,
no quick travel, few books, no newspapers, no cine-
mas, and no wireless to entertain the people day and‘-
night with music and song. We live longer and our
national health is better now than it was then.
Whom have we to thank? Inventors and dis-
coverors first, and then all who have used intelligent
thoughtin theirwork. It has all been achievedby the
combinationof intelligence, education, industry, and
labour. Watt, Descartes, Fulton, Stephenson,
Kepler, Crompton, Franklin, Kelvin, Lodge, Mar-
coni, Edison, and numerous others such as Lister and
Pasteur, are the men we should thankfor all we have
and are to-day, and like minds will make us what we
shall be in the future.
Slowly but surely has man evolved; first the
protoplasm, then the fish, then the mammal, all these
branching 0E and forming various species, until man
emerges above them all. Why? Because his brain
has been the receptacle of a mind capable of more
creative thought than the rest. His development in
the past has been slow, but steady and sure, and each.
time he has advanced he has done so by giving a
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 195
little more consideration than formerly to his brother
men. Trulyit is more blessed to give thanto receive,
and by reason of his capacity for giving man has
advanced beyond the beast. Gradually as he ad~
vanced he becamecapable of understandingbetter the
feelings of his neighbours. Firstly, the family
gathered together, then the tribe, and then with a
further advance a nation came into being.
We have still to take the next step, when all the
nations of the world will be bound together in one-
human family. This will come about naturally
,
through mental development. In the past man lived
at first only for himself, then for his family,then for
his tribe, and then for his country. At the beginning
of last century Thomas Paine declared that the world
was his country, and when we all come to believethat,
then will be realised the brotherhood of man and the
unity of the human race.
Spiritualism is developing in every country in
the world. Communications are coming from the
Etheric World to every country in the world. This
common link will slowly bind humanity together.
It is only a matter of time till there is an interna-
tional language, one is already nearly perfected, and
then nations will understand each other better.
Wireless has already done more to unify the world
than any other invention. If we could understand
each other telepathically,as they do in the Etheric
World, there would be no need of a language, as the
mental images behindspeech are the same in all cases.
It is only within the last few years that we have
really applied concentrated thought to our conditions.
For thousands of years social conditions remained
196 The Rock of Truth.
much on the same level ; mankind remained
.-stationary. Conditions threehundred years ago were
very similar to those three thousand years ago.
With the increase in knowledge resulting from
scientific enquiry we are now gradually getting more
and more control over the forces of nature. We are
gradually getting more for less work, and it is not
difficult to imaginethatwithinthenext hundred years,
if the present rate of progress continues, the work of
each one of us for one hour a day will produce all our
desires and requirements.
The more we reduce the hours of labour the
greater will become the scope of our advancement in
knowledge, and I can see the time comingwhen man-
kind will have such command over his surroundings
that our whole economic system will be changed.
Our needs, in consequence of the application of
machinery to our requirements, will be met by the
minimum of effort. We shall get the forces of nature
to work for us, under intelligent direction, and with
the expenditure of very much less manual labour.
Gradually the superiority of mind over matter is
asserting itself and becoming increasingly evident,
and some day we may be able to mould physical
matter into the shapes and conditions we require by
the minimum of exertion, thus bringingour conditions
on earth more in line with those prevailing in the
Etheric World, where creative thought can make
conditions in a way not yet understood on earth.
These thoughtsmay help us to understand what
our Etheric friends mean by saying that they are in
advance of the earth, and that what we now have
they have enjoyed for long. We follow a long way
Spirimalism, and what it stands for. 197
behind them, but fortunately we shall continue to
follow. We are learning to take control of our sur-
roundings, as they have known how to do for ages..
That is why scientists and philosophersin the Etheric
VVorld are greatly in advance of ‘those on earth, as.
many of the latter refuse to be taught by their
superiors, greatly to their loss.
I could mention many other ways in which we
are following behind the Etheric World, but I shall
only mention one more, which is that the Kingdom
of Mind on earthis receivingmore respect to—day than-
ever before. What one is, mentally and morally,
now receives more consideration than what was one’s
social position at birth, whereas in the days of old
the reverse was the case. Slowly Mind on earth is
coming to be recognised as King, and to have all
things subservient to it.
Before I leave the subject of the brotherhood of
man, let me impress on everyone the truth that all
life continues after death. Life is indestructible, and
needless pain and suffering to any creature has been
too common in the past. As, however, we come to
realise that all creatures are endowed with mind and
can suffer*lil<e ourselves, and that all life continues.
beyond death, so shall we give more serious con-
sideration to the alleviation of needless, pain and‘
suffering.
It is unmanly and unwomanly, to say the least
of it, to chase a fox or a stag to its death. It is a.
cruel deed first to stop up all the “
earths,” so that
thefox can find no refuge, and thento hunt theanimal‘
for miles, ultimately to dig it out alive when it gets
to earth, and throw it to the hounds. This is called
198 The Rock of Truth.
1'
‘sport” in Christian Britain, and never does the
Church raise its voice in protest against cruelty which
its founder, were he on earthto—day, would be thefirst
‘to condemn. These “blood sports” are relics
of barbarism, and I hope to live long enough on
earth to see public opinion sufficientlyenlightened to
stop this needless suffering in order to give pleasure
to those who alwaysput their own feelings and selfish
pleasures first, and the agony of the animal last.
Such pastimes are degrading to the character of
anyone who takes part in them, and just as other
cruelties are passing away, as mankind develops
‘mentally,so also will pass all forms of cruelty to the
lower creatures.
As to the future. This we can read only from
our knowledge of the past. In the past just
as man has combined his thought with his labour,
has he advanced, and improved his social conditions.
So in the future, in proportion as he continues to
apply his mind to his surroundings, so will his con-
ditions improve, and just as he develops mentally,
so life will become easier. To the same extent as
he thinks more of others will his own happiness in-
crease, and the greater will become the harmony of
the entire human family.
CONTINUED EXISTENCE AND COMMUNICATION.
The beliefin anotherworld has existed from time
‘immemorial, and, as has already been shown, this
beliefis the result of man’s psychic structure. It can
be traced back for thousands of years and found to.
be held by people of all degrees of culture right down
to the savage.
199
Spiritualism, and" what it stands for.
If we were but mechanical creatures, and our
thoughts and actions were produced only by some
chemical reaction, is it imaginablethatwe would have
devoted the trouble and the time we have to giving
thought to another environment? The past, how-
-ever, has relied on instinct translated into hope
.and faith. To—day we are in a new era; know-
ledge can now take the place of faith. It is
no longer a subject for hope that our friends,
whom we call dead, are still living. It is easily
proved that they live, by anyone who cares to take
the necessary trouble. True, the number of good
Mediums is very limited, and some try in vain to
make contact with their friends through those who
.are undeveloped, becausetheyhave not the time, nor
the opportunity, to get into touch through a really
fully-developed Medium.
However, the next best thing to acquiring
knowledge by personal experience is to learn from
"the experience of others. I personally, in common
with most others, have never carried through the
necessary scientific experiments to prove many things
that I and others accept as part of our every-day
knowledge. We accept them as true, because they
are told us by men of repute, who have spent their
lives investigatingand examining the laws of nature.
So the time is fast approaching when all people will
accept without question what is told them by those
who have experimented, and found by these experi-
ments that survival is a fact. Up to the present we
have been handicapped in accepting this fact owing
to the prejudice resulting from our religious up-
bringing and the materialistic outlook of science.
200 The Rock of Truth.
Christians consider thatthey,and theyonly, know or
can know anything about the after life, and con-
sequently that any who believe that continued
existence can be proved without the aid of Chris-
tianity are deceived, and are thus accepting a belief
contrary to the will of God. Fortunately this pre-
judice is passing.
All the discoveries of science are tending in the
direction which Spiritualists have been led to expect
from their communications with the other side.
Though science has made no pronouncement on the
subject, yet the number of Spiritualists amongst
scientists is steadily increasing, and I could mention
the names of some of our leadingmen of science who
are attending séances regularly and gaining know-
ledge thereby. One of our most outstanding
physicists is attending séances regularly but does not
wish the fact to be known to the public as it is not
yet orthodox to do so, but his mental outlook is
widening, and he is gaining new knowledgewhich his
more orthodox brethren are still lacking.
It is all a question of mental development. It
is difficult to discover reality wrapped up as it is
in appearances. It is difficult as the result of our
early scientific and religious training to believe that
it is possible for another world to exist about and
around us, and especially so because this knowledge
is quite beyondour every-day sense perception. Not
everyone has got the objective proof that Spiritualists
have received. It is difficult to accept the fact
that we have an Etheric Body which continues after
death, carrying with it our mind, containing our
memories and our character. The fact of continued
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 201
existence is one of the fundamentals of Spiritualism
and is acceptedin consequence of the communications.
Spiritualists receive from the other side, and also
because of materialisations, apparitions, psychic
photography,clairvoyance, and clairaudience.
In thepast, few have believedthatcommunication
was possible until they personally experienced it.
When they did experience it the belief was easy.
Consider, however, the population in thiscountry and
the relatively small number of fully—developed
Mediums in whose presence reliable communication
takes place, and it will then be easy to see how im-
possible it is for everyone to get personal satisfaction.
If the Mediums were multiplied a hundred times there
would not be nearly sufficient of them to meet
individual demands ; but meantime, till theyincrease-
in number, those who have not been privileged to
hold converse withtheotherworld should accept what
is told them by those who have, just as they accept
the statements of other scientific investigators. We
who have been thus privileged to carry out careful
experiments for years think it is our duty to make-
known the results of our investigations, believingthat
in time our results will be generally accepted.
Is it not strange that the clergy and Christian
people generallywill accept Biblical stories of psychic
phenomena, and will not accept what present—day
writers tell them on the subject? Spiritualists are-
shocked at the want of enquiry, the want of thorough-»
ness in the average Christian towards his beliefs.
He accepts psychic stories if they are in the Bible,
never enquiring who the person is who wrote those-
stories, never investigatingtheirorigin, or questioning’
202 .
The Rock of Truth.
whether they have been found to be correctly re-
corded. In the earlier part of thisbook I try to show
how unsatisfactory is the evidence for all Biblical
records, and yet to—day Christians are bold enough
‘to stand up and call Spiritualists credulous people, to
_jeer at them and make them out to be a deluded cult,
when all the time it is they who lay themselves open
-to these charges. Intelligent Spiritualists accept
nothingcoming from the other side that has not been
.absolutely proved by every possible method.
Take, for instance, the Biblical story of Samuel.
He heard a voice and reported to Eli what this voice
said. Other instances are the story of the Trans-
figuration, and the story of Peter in trance. Here
we have reports of three psychic occurrences, but
‘they are only three of many mentioned in the Bible,
which Christians accept as true. There is no docu-
mentary proof that they are true, but at least this
.much can be said, thatevents similarto thosereported
:in the Bible are occurring in this country every day.
Theyare not strange occurrences to Spiritualists, who
are quite accustomed to them. Samuel, Spiritualists
would say, was a clairaudient Medium just as Mrs.
Annie Johnson and Mrs. Estelle Roberts are to-day,
to mention only two of quite a number. As to the
«story of the Transfiguration, Spiritualists have ex-
periencedthe phenomenonreferred to in this instance
on many occasions, and the most wonderful on record
are the materialisations recorded by Sir William
Crookes, one of our greatest scientists. He pub-
lished in 1874 the results of his experiments, which
lasted over many years, in a book entitled Researches
win the Phenomena of Spiritualism. The story of
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 203
Peter in trance and his vision is an example
of a very common occurrence with Spiritualists when
in the presence of Trance Mediums ; in fact it is one
of the commonest of all the phenomena of Spirit-
ualism. There are more Trance Mediums in this
country and throughout the world than any other
class of Medium.
The trance descriptions of the Etheric World
given by Mrs. Hadden, one of the most developed
Trance and Direct Voice Mediums of our time,
are far more wonderful and graphic than any-
thing recorded in the New Testament as the result
-of Peter’s trance.‘ All this is happening in Edinburgh
to—day and being privately recorded by a group of
well—known Edinburghjournalists, whileamong those
who regularly attend are some of the leading medical
men in the city.
Most of the Edinburgh clergy know all that is
going on, but with the exception of Dr. Norman
Maclean and two or three others, no parson in Edin-
burgh has yet referred to Spiritualism except to
condemn it. They must be impressed by what is
taking place, as quite a number of them regularly
attend this lady’s séances, and at the moment there
is a waiting list of clergy who will be welcomed
whenever there is room available. They are given
every opportunity to learn the truth, and this group
gladlygives the Church every opportunity to retrieve
its past mistakes, and learn what Spiritualists have
known for the past eighty years.
However, when Sunday comes, these same
parsons preach about Peter and his experiences, or
other so—called miracles, to dwindling congregations,
204 The Rock of Truth.
though those stories are thousands of years old, but
they remain silent as to what is going on in their
own city at the present time. The clergy are ready
to criticise Dr. Maclean and Spiritualists generally,
and as he says in his lucid book, DeathCannot Sever,
recently published, which every Christian should
read, they prefer to continue to sit at the feet of
seventeenthcentury theologians,as if those men had
given the last word on everything relating to our
existence and destiny.
The best that can be said about the Scottish
Church, in their attitude to Psychic Phenomena, is
that the leaders of the Church took some trouble ten
years ago to investigate the subject, but for all the
good that came of it they might as well have done
nothing. I was one of those who conducted the
enquiry, and I did my best to educate the clergy who
comprised the chief part of the committee. Theygot
marvellous evidence in my presence of the truth of
the claims of Spiritualism, but it was evident through-
out that they did not wish to face the truth. It is
not in their interests that the truth should be known,
and they have refused ever since to open up the
question again, thoughit has twice been raised at the
General Assembly.
The attitude of the Church of Englandis just the
same. The present Archbishopof York, Dr. Temple,
stated recently, ‘ ‘
I am quite convincedthatdirect evi-
dence of survival is not eitherattainableor desirable.’'
His views on this subject are clearly set forth in the
February 3rd 1933 issue of Light. It is‘ well to
note carefully this remarkablesentence from a Chris-
tian Archbishop. He considers first that direct:
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 205
evidence of survival is not attainable, and yet survival
is one of the best proved facts of science. Next
comes his opinion that evidence of survival is not
desirable. This is typical of the clerical mind, and
shows how superstition has rotted away the whole
spiritual basis of the religion as taught by Jesus, and
what is called his Church is nothing more than an
organisation for the purpose of keeping alive super-
stitions, ceremonies, rites and practices, which have
been handed down from past ages of ignorance for
thousands of years.
The Church is so prejudiced, so averse to re-
linquish its hold over the people, and let them realise
that it is not the custodian of a special revelation
from God, which it has always claimed to be, that
this new revelation is coming to the people through
the people against the united opposition of all the
Christian Churches. At my large meeting in the
Usher Hall in Edinburgh last October, though all
the Church of Scotland clergy in Edinburgh were
asked to come on the platform, none accepted, and
Dr. Norman Maclean, who acted as my Chairman,
received no support from his brother clergy in his
brave stand for the truth. Owing to this official
opposition, only slowly will the truth permeate the
Presbyterianmind. On the other hand, in ‘England,
the so-called Church of England enquiry has ended
in nothing. No report has been published, doubtless
because the leaders find they cannot condemn the
truth, but nevertheless are afraid to admit it.
My old friend Dr. John Lamond of Greenside
Parish Church, Edinburgh, always believed that
Spiritualismwould take root in Scottish Churches and
206 The Rock of Truth.
spread therefrom throughout the whole country.
He based his views on the fact that, narrow and rigid
as are the Scottish clergy, at least they are not tied
to a liturgy like many of their brothers in England.
Whether he was right or not, the future only can
show, but it is certainly remarkablethat three of the
most prominent clergy in Edinburgh have been brave
and honest enough to declare publicly their belief in
Spiritualism, and that the old theology is dead.
I know no other city in Great Britain where-
Spiritualism is more activelydiscussed, and where it
receives more thoughtful consideration than in the
capital of Scotland. This is doubtless owing largely
to the fact that the leadingnewspapers of the city are
strongly pro-Spiritualism, in consequence of the
knowledge those who administer them have gained
at the séances just referred to with Mrs. Hadden.
All honour also to Dr. Lamond for the brave
stand he took on the side of the truth some fifteen
years ago, when he was a voice crying in the wilder-
nessl He will go down to history as one of the
pioneers amongst the clergy, who saw where the
Church was heading, and did his utmost to divert it
from its error into the channels of truth.
Clairaudience and clairvoyance, which are so
frequently reported in the Bible, are common occur-
rences at the present time, and anyone who attends
a Spiritualist meeting, when good clairaudience and
clairvoyance take place, cannot doubt the fact that
some people have the gift of hearing and seeing more
than the ordinary individual, with his limited capacity
for hearing and seeing.
I have been present on many occasions when
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 207
Mrs. Estelle Roberts, Mrs. Annie Johnson or Mrs.
Helen Spiers, to mention only three of our best
known clairvoyantes, gave clairvoyant descriptions or
clairaudientmessages. From 40 to 50 correct names-
and messages, on each occasion, are usually given
to the people in the audience, from their friends in
the other world. I have often heard the most
minute details of their life and appearance on earth,
transferred through the Medium, the percentage of
mistakes being less than two per cent. The 98 per‘
cent correct descriptions absolutelyrule chance out as
an explanation, and fraud is equally impossible, as
these ladies arrive at the meeting just before it com-
mences, and on many occasions I have known them
to arrive by train, half an hour or so beforethemeeting,
commenced, and go direct from the station to the-
meeting. They go from town to town throughout.
Great Britain, and I have been present at meetings
when the clairvoyante had just arrived in the town
on thefirst occasion in her life. Mrs. Estelle Roberts,
for instance, who took part at the meeting I addressed
in the St. Andrew’s Hall in Glasgow, in May 1932,.
arrived in that city just before the meeting, and it,
was the first time she had been in Scotland in her‘
life. She gets only a small fee of a guinea or so,
together with her expenses, so it is obvious that she-
could not afford to pay people to make enquiries
beforehand, or to have her own accomplicesscattered‘
throughout the audience. This itself Would require-
an organisation and a considerable amount of money
to maintain, so this suggestion, which is sometimes
seriously made, can be ruled out as absurd. I have’
personal proof, however, of the genuineness of our"
208 The Rotk of Truth.
recognised clairvoyants, as many of my own per-
sonal friends have received intimate communications
through them, which have been correct to the
minutest detail.
Many people have this gift. The other day a
friend of mine attended a funeral. As the coffin was
being lowered someone took a photograph of the
mourners, and when the plate was developed the
photograph of the man whose body was being
"buried appeared standing beside his wife. This was
shown to the clergyman who officiated and he
replied, "
Yes, I saw him standing there just as the
photograph depicts it.” My friend then said,
“
Well, you should tell your congregation that from
the pulpit.” To which he replied, “I would not
dare; my Bishop would object.” Yet this same
parson will preach about the disciples walking to
Emmaus in company with a spirit, which they saw
and spoke to, but dares not say that he himself has
seen one. Could anything exemplify better the
present hopelessly illogical position of the Christian
Church?
We have, therefore, the extraordinary position
"to recognise that Christian people will accept as true,
occurrences recorded by tradition as happening
thousands of years ago, but that they will not accept
what is recorded by men and women of standing and
repute at the present day. In my book, On the
Edge of the Etheric, I refer at some length to
notable men of the past fiftyyears who have vouched
for all that Spiritualisrn stands for. I have recorded
there some of the experiences I myself have had,
[but though more extensively and carefully recorded
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 209
than are the experiences of most Spiritualists, they
are exactly similar to the experience of hundreds of
thousands of sane and sensible people who are living
in our country at the present time.
It is impossible to imagine that the thousands of
people who have recorded their experiences are
deluded or fraudulent. Their word on other matters
is accepted, so why should their word on this question
also not be accepted? Theyhave had the experience,
and those who have not should accept what theysay.
If Christians will not accept what their contem-
poraries tell, theyare most illogicalin acceptingwhat
is in the Bible. In other words, if Spiritualism is
a fraud and a delusion, so also are the stories in the
Bible, the only difference being that Spiritualists
affirm that their statements can be proved by anyone
who likes to take the trouble to do so, whereas the
Biblical stories cannot be verified by investigation.
Whether the details of the Biblical stories are
correct or not, at least Spiritualists can accept them
as possible Without having to resort to the belief in
miracles or somethingcontrary to nature, as Chris-
tians have to do in order to believethem. Spiritua-
lrsts do not believein miracles or in the supernatural,
or anythingcontrary to nature. They believein law
and order in the universe, and they never talk about
supernatural events or miraculous occurrences.
When they Wish to refer to something occurring
beyondour limited sense perceptions they refer to it
as super—normal. No miracle or supernatural occ1?r—
rence has ever taken place in the history of the
Universe, so far as our knowledge extends.
In my book already referred to I have devoted
O
210 The Rock of Truth.
a great amount of space to records of conversations
I had over a period of five years with friends of mine
who have passed on to the EthericWorld. I do not
propose in this book to go into those details again-
All I would say is that I have careful records of
thirty-nine séances, and the possibility of fraud or
delusion cannot be imagined, owing to theprecautions
taken. In the reviews of my book, which number
nearly one hundred, little or no criticism was ever
made on this point, and it was generally accepted
thatI had obtainedgenuine super-normalphenomena.
Voices quite apart from the Medium spoke to me
or to friends of mine I took with me, and many of
these voices were recognised. I have had given to
me two hundred and eighty-twofactswhich I recorded"
in writing at the time and afterwards verified, but
besidesthese I have had numerous othersunrecorded.
One hundred and eighty of these I class as A1,
as it was impossible for the Medium or anybody
else to know anythingwhatever about the facts which
were given to me. To ascertain what possibility
therewas thatthesecommunicationswere guess-work
on the part of the Medium, an eminent mathematician
computed that the chances against this were thirty
billionsto one. One hundred I class as A2, as the
factsgiven could betraced to reference books or news-
papers, though I do not believefor one moment that
the Medium resorted to this method of obtaining the
information. One item of information given to me
I caild not trace and theother was slightlyinaccurate,
but if it had been given in a slightly different way it.
would have been correct.
After five years’ careful investigation of psychic
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 211
phenomena throughthe mediumship of Mr. John C.
Sloan of Glasgow, I was completely convinced that
the voices which spoke to me were the voices of
those they claimed to be, and that neither fraud nor
delusion could account for them. I have already
shown in my previous book the care I took to prevent
fraud or delusion, and how, slowly but surely, I was
convinced against my will that I was in contact with
thosewho once lived here on earth, who, after passing
throughthe change called death, continued to inhabit
another world around and about us.
Hundreds of different voices I have heard, of
different tone and strength; some loud enough to
be heard 200 yards away, others soft, and many
recognised. Of all the discoveries of man this is
surely the greatest, and if it could be obtained
regularlyby an instrument and thus becomegenerally’
known, it would be accepted as such by everyone.
Unfortunately, only a comparatively small number
have experienced this phenomenon, and because of
its novelty only slowly are people coming to believe
in its possibility.
These very careful experiments which I carried
out ended eight years ago, but since then I have care-
fully and critically examined the experiences of hun-
dreds of other people, and what they have told me,
and what they concluded from those experiences,
agrees to theminutest detail withmy own experiences
and the deductions I drew from them. Since I
published my book On the Edge of the Ethe*rz'c, I
have been in receipt dailyof an enormous correspon-
dence from all parts of the world. I have not
received a single hostile or critical letter, but many
212 The Rock of Truth.
letters tell me how greatly my book has helped and
comforted the writers. Others ask how they also
may obtain similar experiences.
Other letters, again, are from people who have
had experiences like myself, and though the letters
come from all parts of the world——Brazil, the Argen-
tine, the United States, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa, India, and most of the
countries of Europe——yet they all tell of similar ex-
periences with Direct Voice Mediums. They also
confirm what has been told to me about theconditions
in the other world, and show further thatthe explana-
tion I received of the methods adopted for com-
municating with us has also been given to them. I
have such a mass of information in those letters that
extracts from them would make up a book somewhat
similar in size to this one.
The evidence I myself have had from all parts
of the world that survival and communication is a
fact would be enough in itself to prove the claims of
Spiritualism, even if no other proof existed. If,
however, you multiply by one millionmy experiences,
both personal and those of which my many friends
have told me, you would be nowhere near the end
of the sum total of evidence of survival and com-
munication which has accumulated during the last
eighty-four years. Is it conceivable that Spiritualism
can be considered a fraud and a delusion when all
this is carefully considered? Remember I am not
the only one to bear public testimony to these facts.
Others prominent in the investigation of psychic
phenomena, who have written books on the subject,
have likewise received numerous testimonies corro-
borating what they say.
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 213
I shall now only refer to three incidents to show
how strong is the case for survival. The first is one
of many which was given to me by Mr. Edward C.
Randall, one of the leading lawyers in Buffalo, with
whom I stayed when I was in America ten years
ago. We still correspond with each other and inter-
change new information we obtain. During twenty
years, he told me, he had had sittings in his own
house with Mrs. Emily French, one of the world's
most gifted Direct Voice Mediums, and had short-
hand records taken of what took place on over
seven hundred occasions. Mrs. French for some-
years stayed in his house so as to be under his direct
supervision. In a letter received from him last
February he states that the recorded sittings now
number over one thousand.
Thousands of different voices spoke to him, clear
and distinct, everyone different and easilyrecognised.
The most profound problems were easily discussed,
and from hostileunbeliefhe was led on and educated in
what I might term Universal Science. Some day
this will take the place of Physical Science, when our
scientists are wise enough to study those great ques-
tions as students taught by Etheric World scientists.
They must, however, humble themselves sufficiently
to realise that their ingenuity alone cannot solve the
riddle of the Universe, and that to do so they must
learn many things of which they are quite ignorant,
from thosewho inhabittheworld of finer matter about.
and around us.
Mr. Randall and I spent many hours discussing
those profound teachings we had been privileged to
receive, and thenwe told each other some of our own
personal experiences, of friends coming back and
214 The Rock of Truth.
proving their identity. I shall long remember one
of the most evidential cases of which I have ever
heard, as it rules out entirely the absurd theory held
‘by some that unless what you are told is unknown
to everybody, it is of no value. As this would be
impossible to verify, they say survival cannot be
proved. Those who hold this theory are very
limited in number, as well as in their knowledge of
the evidence which has come through, and what Mr.
Randall told me is a sample which excludes every
known normal explanation, and leaves only the
Spiritualistic explanation to account for it.
One morning, at ten o'clock, the Brown Building
in Buffalo, which was under repair, collapsed, and
the few people working there were all buried under
the debris. N0 one knew who they were, or
how many there were, and this was not "known
till some days after, when the bodies were re—
covered and identified. On the day the building
collapsed, however, when Mr. Randall was sitting
with Mrs. French, one of those killed spoke to him
and told him thatfour people had been in the building
at the time of the collapse, and that he, the speaker,
was one of them. He then gave their full names as
follows :—William P. Straub, George Metz, Michael
Schurzke, a Pole, and Jennie M. Griffin, a woman.
This was proved to be correct several days later,
when the bodies were recovered.
Now when this"was told to Mr. Randall no one
knew who had been killed——only the people them-
selves, and the people who were looking after them
in the Efheric World. No one on earth knew, so
that much-abused explanation, telepathy,will not fit
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 215
in here. I could give similar experiences of my own
to prove thatthe Spiritualists’ explanationis the only
«one to fit all the facts, but as I have already given
some of my experiences in my previous book I shall
not further deal with thisquestion of evidence beyond
giving two more very evidential cases which have
occurred within recent months, the first beingthe ex—
perience of Lady Caillard just a few months ago.
She is the widow of Sir Vincent Caillard, who
was a director of Vickers and the Southern Railway,
and who died in 1930. She has published her ex-
periences in pamphlet form, but this is brieflywhat
she told me. She first became interested when
attending a Spiritualist meeting, as then her husband
was described to her by a clairvoyante as standing
beside her. She then attended a séance, and her
husband sent through messages by means of the Re-
flectograph, an earth instrument operated by the
Etheric personality communicating. Her sister-in-
law at thesame time had a message from her husband.
The following day Lady Caillard ‘Eattended
another séance. She told me she heard her hus-
band’s voice, calling her by a name which only he
used, and which was known onlyto themselves. Then
he said, “I am coming to show myself to you if I
-can.” Then he appeared standing before her and
was easily recognised. He held out his hand and
shook his Wife’s with a firm grasp. He then took
"her hand in his two hands and pressed it to his lips.
‘Then conversation followed and he promised to come
‘back again on the anniversary of his passing, which
he did, and she told me,
“
I saw him just as he was
in life.” All present saw Sir Vincent, and these
216 The Rock of Truth.
numbered ten people. “
There was no doubt about
him beingmy husband,” she told me,
“
and he was
seen by everyone.” He told his wife many things
which no one but he could have known. She touched
him, stroked his hair, and kissed him. He put his
arm round her neck and drew her head on to his
shoulder. The Medium, I might mention, was a
woman.
I mention this case as we have here everything
one could desire, not only the voice but the bodily
form. What more evidence could we have on earth
to satisfy our reason that we are speaking to our
earth friends? None. We recognise our friends’
voices and we see their physicalappearance, as Lady
Caillard heard and saw and recognised her husband.
The only difference is that our earth friends can
remain with us wherever we go, and can be seen and
heard ; but our Ethericfriendscan be seen and heard
only in the presence of a Medium, who gives off
ectoplasm which enables them to materialise for a
brief period. How this all happens is fullyexplained
in On the Edge of the Etheric, and I have not the
space here to go again into the details.
Briefly,the Medium supplies a substance called
ectoplasm, which the Etheriansmix with a substance
of their own, which they call psychoplasm, and the
combinationof these two produces a substance called
teleplasm, with which they cover their vocal organs,
etc., and thus so slow down their vibrationsthatthey
can vibrate our atmosphere. It will be noted that I
use the word Etherianinstead of Spirit people. They
prefer this designation, and I hope in time it will be
used generally, and the word “
Spirit” dropped, as
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 217
they are not spirits as we understand the word, but.
men and women like ourselves. .
The last experience I shall give occurred when
I was in Belfast in Septemberlast. I went there to
give two addresses, one in the Ulster Hall, thelargest
hall in Belfast, accommodating over two thousand
people. The hall was packed. My chairman was
Colonel Sharman Crawford, D.L., Deputy Gover-
nor of Northern Ireland, and in his opening remarks
he said, "
I know that my deceased son is standing
beside me.” After my address, at the close of the-
meeting, a man from the audience came to speak to-
me. He described a man in Etheric life standing
besideme when I spoke. He gave me a very careful
description of his appearance, describing him from
head to foot. Also he said the man was killed near‘
the war period on a motor cycle, and came to—night
dressed just as he was when killed, in military motor
cyclist’s uniform. My informant could not get his
name, but said he must bea friendof mine or someone
I knew.‘ I denied all such knowledge, and he seemed
disappointed. I thanked him, and told him that if
I remembered who this man was I would let him
know.
On my way home I told my hostess what had
been told me, and she at once said, “That was
Colonel Sharman Crawford’s son ; I knew him quite
well.” This was confirmed the next day by the
Colonel, and it so impressed him that he allowed it
to be reported in all the Belfast newspapers. The
clairvoyant, whom I learned afterwards was known
for his gift, evidentlysaw thesoldier standingbetween
my chairman and me, and thought he was a friend
‘218 The Rock of Truth.
(of mine, whereas it just confirmed Colonel Sharman
Crawford’s own clairvoyance that his son was with
him. Here were two independent testimonies given
‘to me about someone I did not know, but recognised
«by someone else. All were honest people connected
with the event, and it will be seen that no one had
;anythingto gain by falsehood or misrepresentation.
No, Spiritualists are not a “deluded people,”
‘but very much the reverse. Theyare sane and prac-
tical, thoroughand critical, and if a Medium is found
to be fraudulent, it is Spiritualists who expose the
Medium, not non-Spiritualists. It has been said,
and never contradicted, that no non-Spiritualist has
«ever exposed a Medium. Many so—called exposures
by non-Spiritualists have taken place, but it has been
found afterwards that the Medium has been tricked,
or that the exposure was false. I do not necessarily
concur withthesestatements, becauseI have no proof
to support them; but what I wish to emphasise is
‘this, that Spiritualists will never tolerate fraud, and
-if ever a Medium is proved to be fraudulent that
Medium’s day is past, and he sinks into oblivion.
His name is published in all the Spiritualist papers,
.and he is discredited for the rest of his life.
I shall not deal furtherwiththisquestion of inter-
-communication between the two worlds, as I have no
space to do so, and it is not the purpose of this book
‘to give detailed consideration to the evidence Spirit-
rualists have of survival after death. There are
‘hundreds of books on the subject, and there are
numerous standard books by men of great repute
whose accuracy is undoubted. I must leave it at
that; but should the reader wish to pursue the matter
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 219
further he will find some of those books regularly
.advertised in the various Psychic newspapers already
"referred to.
The Fifth Principle of Spiritualism is known
‘under the heading of
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
It is easy to be wicked if you are not to be held
responsible for your misdeeds. It is not difficult to
defraud your neighbour if you feel that all you have
to do is to ask forgiveness and believethat Jesus took
your sins away and suffered for them two thousand
years ago. The possibilityof transferring your sins
to some other person or creature is a very old de-
lusion. Most of us know the Old Testament story
of the Paschal Lamb, which was killed as a sin
offering. The Arabs had a similar custom, and the
\
belief in a crucified saviour is to be found in many
of the world’s religions. This belief was general
"throughouttheeast at thetime of theearly Christians,
and gradually the idea developed that Jesus took the
‘place of the Paschal Lamb, that his crucifixion was a
punishment for the sins of the world, and made all
believers safe for eternity. This doctrine is one
of the most pernicious that has ever been preached.
It has been the cause of more crime in Christendom
than any other of the teachingsof Christianity. The
idea that any individual or any God suffered for us,
-and that,no matter what we do, we can solelyby faith
be absolved from our sins and shortcomings, is too
ludicrous to require much consideration. It was born
in ignorance and flourished in ignorance, and those
who still preachit to-day are as ignorant as those who
preceded them. '
220 The Rock of Truth.
Fortunately this belief is dying a natural death,
which doubtless is being hastened by the teachings
of Spiritualism. We know now from what we are
told by those who have preceded us into the Etheric
World that each one of us has to bear the con-
sequences of his own sins and shortcomings, and that
as we sow, so shall we reap. If we live selfish, sinful
lives we shall reap our reward, not onlyhere but here-
after, untilwe change. The idea of a fixed placefor the
unbelieversis a myth. We create our own Heaven
and our own Hell. The selfish and wicked are per-
haps miserable in this world, and they may be more
miserable in the next, though not necessarily. The
good and the unselfish in this world may be happy
here and may be happier hereafter. We know now
the reason and how simple it all is.
Our Mind conditions our surroundings here to
a certain extent, but to a much greater extent in the
Etheric World. If our Mind here is self—centred,
making us selfish, if it cares nothingfor the feelings
of others and only for itself, it will create an isolated
condition for itself in the Etheric World. Through
the power of Mind we mould our surroundings to a
much greater extent therethan here, and as we think,
so we are. It is not difficult to imagine a wicked
individual here surrounding himself with equally
wicked fellow beings. In the Etheric World like
draws to like to an even greater extent than here,
and consequently the wicked congregate together.
Just as it is with the Wicked, so it is with the
good; but there is no great gulf fixed between the-
two, as the next world is not only a place but a
condition. Those who make for themselvesthoseevil
conditions have always the power of changing them
Spit-itualisrm, and what it stands for. 221
by their thoughts, of thus improving their conditions,
and ultimately having harmonious relations with the
good. There we get into closer harmony with our
desires than we can here. Many a wicked individual
on earth can cloak his wickedness by his wealth and
bluff ; but not so there. Our characterthereis trans-
parent, whereas here it is not so. All men and
women who have passed from this world to the next
have found their level. They may have been kings
or queens, princesor lords, looked up to and honoured
on earth because of their Worldly position, but there,
characteronlydetermines theirposition. There they
live in a world of finer matter which is more easily
influenced by Mind, and naturally they gravitate to
thesurroundingswhich their Minds can bestinfluence.
It would be quite impossible there, where Minds only
in tune harmonise together, for the wicked and the
good to live together. They naturally repel each
other. It is all very similar to the conditions on
earth. There, as here, “
birds of a feather flock to-
gether,” but as character is more transparent there
than here one is summed up at once withoutmistake.
Each one of us is responsible for our own
actions and thoughts. Our mental make-up deter-
mines our condition hereafter, and no one need be
deluded by the idea that belief in some vicarious
atonement is going to alter the position each Mind
determines for itself.
This being so, the Sixth Principle of Spirit-
ualism can be easily understood.
COMPENSATION AND RETRIBUTION HEREAFTER.
Eachone of us willreceive compensationor suffer
retribution both here and hereafter for all good or evil
done on earth. Each one of us willreceive his reward,
222 The Rock of Truth.
as effect follows cause there, just as it does here. We
shall not appear before a judge at some judgment
seat on some judgment day. Every day we are
passinga sentence on ourselves. As we live here so
shall we live there ; here on earth we are makingour
future conditions. It is character that counts, not
beliefs. Thus it will be seen how all the inequalities
of life are straightened out. Wealth and position,
so highly valued here, count for nothingthere ; only
character. Money and working for money is un-
known there, for as your thoughts are, so_ are your
surroundings. Those who have trodden the difficult
and straitened path of poverty on earth will not
receive happiness in Heaven becausetheywere poor
on earth, but theywill enter into conditions in accor-
dance with the development of their minds and
character here. Many of the best people on earth
are the poorest in worldly goods, and some of the
worst are the richest. Nature gives no thought to
poverty or wealth ; nature considers only the mental
calibre of each individual.
Those who have not beeneducated on earth will
be taught and instructed in the next world, and, if
their minds respond to the teaching, they will
advance. All obtain this teachingwho are willingto
receive it, and the worst can in time become the best
if the desire to do so exists ; but if the desire is not
there progress does not take place. Creeds and
dogmas stifle the mind. They make for selfishness,
theygive the believersin them a sense of superiority,
and this reacts on their conditions hereafter. Many
of the worst people the world has ever known were
the greatest believers in creeds and dogmas. Con-
Spiritualism, and "what it stands for. 2235
stantine presided at the Council of Nicaea, Torque-«
mada, the Christian Prior, presided over the In--
quisition in Spain, Cortes converted Mexico and-
Pizarro Peru to Christianity by the slaughter of hun--
dreds of thousands with the edge of the sword.
The knowledgethat Spiritualists possess, thatas.
we develop mentally here so shall our conditions be
hereafter, is a great stimulus for everyone to live
justly and unselfishly. To put it briefly,all sin can
be described by the word selfishness, and the more-
selfish We are the more sinful we are. Selfish and
unselfish people are to be found in all degrees of’
life, and each one of us here is making our future
habitation in the Etheric World.
The last principle of Spiritualism is
ENDLESS PROGRESSION.
Every human being has a path of endless pro-
gression in front of him, and it is for him to take it
or leave it. In the next world he cannot live his best.
by hanging about this earth and never getting away‘
from earthlythings. Loved ones on earth often keep‘
him in close touch with earth conditions, but sooner‘
or later everyone must lose their interest in earth;
and take up the new life in a natural way. We can,
however, still forget about the earth and yet make no
progress if we confine our thoughts solely to our-
selves. If we wish to acquire knowledge for the-
purpose of helping others, and if we become less
selfish, then the pathis opened to us, and as we gain-.
in wisdom and characterwe draw nearer,to perfection.
In the Etheric World there are seven planes ex-
tending one beyond the other from this earth's sur—
224 The Rock of Truth.
face, and as we progress we pass from one to another.
The only difference between death in the Etheric
World and death in this world is that here we leave
.a body behindus to be buried ; but there, as we pro-
gress, we rise to higher planesand more beautifulsur-
roundings, as our mind and body become capable of
-responding to the finer conditions of each plane.
Progress is dependent on desire; as the Mind
develops the Etheric body responds to finer vibra-
tions, and thus we are enabled to rise naturally to
"higher planes. This is a faculty possessed by the
Etheric body, but not by the physical body.
Here on earth we have this condition of desire
‘exemplified. I know a man who went out to Japan,
for a holiday, and spent his time there wandering
about the docks of Yokohama and watching the
ships being loaded and unloaded. This he did for
a fortnight and then returned home. He never
saw any of the beauties of the country; he never
-studied the inhabitants and the conditions of that
‘interesting race. He consequently came home as
ignorant as he was when he left this country. Men-
tally he was incapable of appreciating something
above and beyondwhat was his dailyoccupation, that
of a stevedore. So it can be understood how in the
EthericWorld our Mind conditions our environment,
and only if we have the desire for increased know-
ledge and the desire for something better shall we
attain it.
It does not necessarily follow that undeveloped
people are wicked—far from it, but they make the
conditions they are mentally fitted for. Their back-
ward state need not last for ever; the time comes
Spiritualism, and what it stands for. 225
when increased knowledge and better surroundings
are desired, and when the desire comes it is
gratified. For all of us, therefore, there is a pathof
eternal progress laid out, and we have but to follow
it. If the desire is there the path will be followed;
if not, then, until the desire for progress is ours, we
shall spend our existence only partially developed,
and miss for a time the way which is ours as part of
our inheritance.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITUALISM.
PART I.
THE foregoing chapter dealing with the Seven Prin-
ciples of Spiritualism makes it clear that Spiritualism
is a practical, sane and sensible religion, suitable for
the sane and practicalman and woman of the present
day. There is no emotionalismnor sentiment about
it. The intelligent Spiritualist believes in proving
all things and believing only what he has proved.
What he cannot prove he leaves aside till knowledge
increases sufficiently to make what is doubtful more
explicit. Christians, on the contrary, believe much
withoutany evidence whatever ; theythinkfaith such
a virtue that they believe everything a Holy Book
or a HolyChurch prescribes,no matter how fantastic.
PersonallyI have never in all my life seen any virtue
at all in faith. Being practical by nature, I have
always looked on the realm of faith as the borderland
of ignorance. Fortunately we are now living in the
days of the decay of faith, and entering the age of
reason and knowledge.
Spiritualism is the only satisfactory religion for
this new age which we are now entering. It holds
that it is the duty of every man and woman to in-
vestigate questions of religion for themselves,
accepting nothing without first weighing up all the
evidence. No man in whose brain burns the torch
of reason need fear to investigate and to think on
these great problems, which in the past have been
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 227
relegated to a select few to ponder over. To get
some one else or some organisation to think for us
is mental indolence. We must thinkout these deeper
problems of life for ourselves.
Advanced Spiritualists, owing to the knowledge
theyhave received from the great intelligences in the
Etheric World, have now a philosophy which can
harmonise all human knowledge into one complete
whole. To the advanced Spiritualist religion and
science are one. Scientific fact is the foundation for
this knowledge, combined with the knowledge given
to us from minds wiser than earth minds, about the
-unsensed universe around us. We cannot complete
the picture until we include the study of this unsensed
universe, which we can do only by makinguse of the
Contact Mediumship establishes between the sensed
and unsensed. The difference between scientific
Spiritualists and other scientists is that the former
make use of this connecting link, and in consequence
gain in knowledge; those who ignore this link are
still groping in the dark. Spiritualists by thus making
use of all the knowledge available have built up a
philosophywhich is the most complete and therefore
themost advanced existing in the world to—day ; they
have a larger and a more rounded outlook of the
universe, and can understand and comprehend it
better in consequence.
To show, however, how greatly we are in the
minority, and how few comprehend the Spiritualist
philosophy, I cannot do better than include here
a copy of a letter I sent to the Editor of The Times
on 20th May last year, during a time when some of
our leadingorthodox scientists and philosopherswere
228 The Rock of Truth.
trying to explain the universe on a purely physical
basis. The letter I wrote to the editor is as follows :—
The Editor, _
The Times, London. 20th May 1932.
Dear Sir,—Your columns have recently contained letters of
paramount importance to scientific thought, two on the
reality of psychic phenomena as witnessed at the National
Laboratory for Psychical Research, and the more recent ones
on the attempt to grasp space and the universe.
I believe that it is quite impossible to understand or even
to get a working hypothesis of the universe from a purely
physical standpoint. Those who try to do so are attempting
to explain the infinite by our limited sense organs, which is
-quite impossible.
The material world is a transitory and passing world,
and so also is the material universe, and matter as we see
it is the least important thing in the universe, though to us
to-day it seems to be the most important.
Psychic science, however, is opening to us a new
universe, a universe of etheric substance, governed by Mind,
and only when orthodox science condescends to examine this
new universe revealed to us through Mediumship, can it
possibly hope to get a true perspective of the universe as a
whole.
A physical or material explanation of the universe is
impossible becausethe physicist is looking at and considering
only the physical universe, whereas the real universe is the
etheric, and physical matter is but the result of a minute
quantity of vibrations compared to those which constitute
space, where the real universe exists.
Space is the real universe. We think it is empty but
it is full of life and growth, a real objective world to its
inhabitants.
This I have learned after fifteen years of experimenting
and studying of psychic science. What I have found, others,
such as Crookes, Wallace, Lodge, Barrett, Flammarion,
Richet, and Lombroso, have likewise found. Orthodox
science, however, will never be able to approach to a true
explanation of the universe until it accepts the means nature
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 229
has put before it, namely, through Mediumship. Then it
will learn things now ignored and misunderstood from in-
telligences in the Etheric World, who look on us as children
groping for somethingwe shall never find without their aid.
Those of us who have had the privilege of being taught
by intelligences greater than those of this earth find little
'
interest in a physical explanation of the universe, as we have
been taught to look on the universe as a gigantic scale of
vibrations or waves of motion of which thephysicalrepresents
only the equivalent of what an inch is to a mile. We are
also taught that the realm of mind is the real universe, and
that our individual minds are conditioned by the vibrations
of our surroundings. As mind is indestructible and never
dies, our zppreciation of the universe changes, as mind
responds to finer and finer vibrations.
How can anyone possibly explain the physical universe
when we now know that after death the physical ceases to
exist for us and we then appreciate the faster vibrations of
etheric substance? The physical is only important to us
during our earth life, but it cannot possibly represent the
universe, now that we know that our "earth life is only an
infinitesimal part of our existence. Matter without mind is
unthinkable, and thus mind must be behind everything, and
only in terms of mind can the universe be explained.
Yours faithfully,
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY.
Knowing the conservative attitude of our great
national newspaper, and knowing how alien the
contents of my letter were to the official scientific
mind and to orthodox thought, I was not surprised
to have this letter returned to me with a polite in-
timation thatthe editor did not see his way to publish
it. I comforted myself, however, by recalling thatif
The Times had been published in the days of Coper-
nicus and he had sent it a communicationto the effect
that the earth revolved round the sun, and not the
sun round the earth, he would have had his com-
230 The Rock of Truth.
munication treated by the editor of that day in a
similar way.
Spiritualismand its philosophyare so new thatit
is hardly to be expected that our great national daily
paper, which almost completely ignores the subject,
would make an exception in my case. The columns
of The Times are reserved for official and orthodox
Christianity and orthodox Science. To these two
subjects it gives ample space, and the sayings and
doings of the official leaders of Science and Chris-
tianity get prominent notice and support in its
columns. To those who know the truth about the
history of Christianity and the basis of sand on which
it is founded, this seems extraordinary. Spiritualism
asks nothingfrom humanity contrary to reason. It
puts reason first as the magnetic north for each one
of us to steer by. If we try to keep to our course,
guided by reason, we may go astray, but not so far
astray as if we put something else in the place of
this God—given gift.
All the knowledge we possess, all the present
comfort and happiness of humanity, is the result of
man putting reason first, and just as he has put reason
first and faithlast has he progressed and improved his
well-being. All the instruction and guidance we get
from the other world is for the purpose of helping us
to use our reason aright, but never for encouraging
us to lean on external guidance and not thinkfor our-
selves. We are here in this world for the purpose
of developing our characters, and Spiritualism is not
going to weaken them. Quite the reverse. The
primary object our friends have in communicating
with us is to let us realise thattheyare still alive and
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 231
happy. The second object is to let us know that we
too will continue to exist with them in a similar world
about and around this earth of ours. These are the
two primary objects of the communicationwhich they
have opened up between the two worlds; but in
addition they are glad to avail themselves of the
opportunity of guiding us and helping us, out of their
added experience, to live better and more rational
lives than we have lived in the past. They see the
world steeped in superstition from which they are
anxious to set it free.
This‘ is as far as the average Spiritualist gets.
He is quite satisfied when he has learned about his
own destiny, and knows what has become of his
friends. Automatically,old creeds and dogmasgive
placeto a more rational outlook on life, and he accepts
the Seven Principles of Spiritualism as a natural
sequence. The average individual, whether he be
Christian or Spiritualist, has no great philosophic
bent. The majority have too much to do, even if
they had the capacity to probe into the mysteries of
existence or the riddle of the Universe. All the
same there is no doubt that the average level of in-
telligence amongst Spiritualists is considerably higher
than amongst Christians, and some have travelled far.
on that difficult and endless road, commonly called
philosophy.
It is this side of the question I now wish to
consider at some length, as the philosophyof Spirit-
ualism is the most advanced philosophyin the world
to—day. This is not to be wondered at in View of the
fact that Spiritualists, whose minds run in this direc-
tion, have been greatly helped and guided by the
232 The Rock of Truth.
higher Intelligences with whom they have been in
touch.
After having had proof in abundance that life
continues, that those who spoke were those whom
they said they were, I decided that the only way to
get down to the deeper problems of existence was to
have private sittings, and to this proposal Mr. John
C. Sloan, the Medium, kindly consented. Then it
was possible to delve deeper than I could do at
ordinary séances, where everyone was anxious to talk
to -friends and relatives. I had by then reached the
stage where I wanted to get beyond those recently
passed over, and make contact with much more
highly-developed and experienced minds. My
wish was granted, and at the first private sitting
I had with Sloan, my stenographer being the only
other person present, a greatly elevated mental at-
mosphere became quickly noticeable. No attempt
was made to prove identity ; that I had already proved
to my entire satisfaction. I was not particularly
anxious to know who spoke to me, but I was very
anxious to know about many thingsthat I could only
learn from those on the other side, who had given
deep thought and consideration to them.
What follows from now onwards I put in my
own words. It is the combinationof my knowledge
of physical science, combined with the information I
have received from the Etheric World, and my own
deductions from this combined knowledge. I shall
make what I have to tell as simple as possible, as
much of what I have to say is new. Consequently,
it must be difficult for the average individual
without any psychic experience to comprehend.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 233
Though I had this privilege of having these
conversations with those in the other world, of
a greater knowledge than that possessed by anyone"
on earth, yet it took me many years before I could
sort out all the information I received, and bring it
withinthe range of my comprehension. Much I was
told I could not understand and only gradually has
enlightenment come to me.
In my conversations I went far beyondtheknow-
ledge of the Medium, who is a working man in
Glasgow, highly respected by his employers, but not
a man who has given thought to the philosophicside
of life. He has suffered all his life from poor eye-
sight, and has told me more than once that he has
seldom if ever read a book in his life. I have been
in his house on many occasions and I have never
once seen a book in it, and only once a newspaper.
He started work at a very earlyage, and he has never
had time to give thoughtto anythingbut his ordinary
daily work. All his life he has refused to take any
payment in return for his mediumistic services.
He was born a Medium and has beenaware of his
supernormal gifts all his life. In his presence, as I
have proved on many occasions, voices speak which
are the voices of intelligences quite apart from the
Medium’s own vocal organs and mind. They are
thevoices of men and women who once lived on earth
speakingfrom the EthericWorld, who have material-
ised their vocal organs by taking what is called ecto-
plasm from the Medium. I have had my ear to his
mouth on many occasions when one or more voices
were speaking at the same time, several yards away
from the Medium, and there was not a sound
234 The Rock of Truth.
coming from it. The Medium is in deep trance
while this takes place, and he knows nothing
-of what has occurred when he comes out of the
trance at the end of the séance. After the séance I
have told him some of the things I have been told,
but he could not understand them, and said that they
were quite beyondhis capacity to comprehend. He
is a good workman but not a student, and his range
of knowledge is limited to what one might expect
from the environment in which he has lived. He is
a good, upright, honest British workingman, but his
beinga Medium does not mean that he knows more
than his associates ; rather the contrary, as he never
hears what takes place at a séance.
I have already accentuated the fact that
appearances in this world are very different from
reality, the outstanding example being the way we
are deceived as to the movement of the sun. This
is one instance of many, but it is a good one.
Now I come to another deception of nature. Matter
which appears to us to be solid is nothingof the kind.
Can anyone imagine a more real or solid thingthan
a ton of iron? If anythingis solid, iron appears to
be so. It certainly fulfils to us in every degree the
definition of the word solid. It is heavy to lift and
it is hard to the touch. Physicists, however, would
not call it solid. In our every—day life thesun appears
1:0 go round the earth, but astronomers would say
that this deception is caused by our living on'a globe
which turns on its own axis, and thus gives us the
impression of the sun going round the earth. So
-with iron. We have the appearance of solidity, but
physicists tell us that matter is an open net-work of
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 235
electrons and protons, and that the distance between
these electrons and protons is_immense in relation to
each other.
Just as we have had to recast our Views on
Astronomy when using our reasoning faculties, so
likewise We have had to recast our views regarding
jphysical matter. Matter which looks so solid is, in
reality, not solid at all. What thenis matter made up
of? Matter is made of atoms and these atoms are in
"turn composed of electrons and protons. The elec-
trons conditionthe substance and the protonscondition
‘the weight. According to the number of protons so
is the weight, and according to the number of elec-
trons so is the substance. Thus iron, which is very
heavy, has more protons than wood, which is lighter.
Iron is iron because it has a certain number of elec-
trons and protons in each atom, and wood is wood
because it has a different number. In iron, for
‘instance, there are always 26 planetary electrons in
each atom, and so everythingthat has 26 planetary
‘electrons appears to us as iron. The centre of each
atom is known as the nucleus, and this nucleus com-
mands the same position in the atom that the sun _
does in our solar system, and just as the planets
revolve round the sun so the electrons and protons
revolve round this centre. The distance these elec-
trons and protons are apart from each other and the
nucleus is relatively about the same distance that the
planets are from each other and from the sun.
Consequentlyit willbeeasilyappreciated thatthe
‘protons and electrons occupy a very small space in the
atom, but it is in consequence of the speed at which
theyrevolve thatwe get the impression thatmatter is
236 The Rock of Truth.
solid. If we consider an atom as somethingthe size
of a villagechurch, then a pin—head would represent
the relative size of one of the electrons of which it is
composed. The electrons are what we see and the
protons are what makes a substance feel heavy, but
what they move in we cannot see. They move in
What is termed ether, which is a word scientists use
for this space. What, then, are electrons and pro-
tons? They are electric charges, the proton being
the positive and the electron beingthenegative. The
atom is thus composed of two charges of electricity,
positive and negative. Now we come down one step
further and ask what is an electric charge? Physicists-
describe an electric charge under the name of
“
wavicle." It is not a thing which can be pegged‘
down, so to speak, and examined. It is a vibration
of the ether or a wave of motion ; therefore, when
we get down to the constitution of matter, we find’
thatit is composed of certain units called atoms, which
units are composed of ether vibrations. In other
words, physical matter is just ether vibrations and
nothing more.
When we look at a house, what takes place to
make us realise that we are seeing a house? Now,
before I can answer this question, I must give some
consideration to the person looking at a house. It
will readilybe granted that if no one were lookingat
the house, the house would not be seen by anyone.
There must be two units, so to speak, to complete
the picture. You must have the house and the person
looking at it. Now, what are we? That is the
great question which, before I go any further, I shall
try to solve.
The Philosophy of Spiritizcalism. 237
The Universe, I believe, is composed of a
gigantic scale of vibrations. Those which we
appreciate on earth are only a small range of vibra-
tions between two fixed points, namely, between
34,000 and 64,000 waves to the inch, or from 400
to 750 billion waves to the second. That is the
section of the Universe which appeals to us, which
makes up to us the physical world. Now the
Physical World is only a very limited scale of vibra-
tions compared with all the other vibrations in the
Universe. We have recently discovered how to
produce another range of vibrations which we are
able to tune into, as the result of the various devices
which go to make up our wireless set. We have
learned how to make these vibrations and convert
them into sound, but before we knew how to do so
they had not existed, though the medium through
which they reach us has always existed. Without
this ether we should be blind and frozen, as it carries
to us the radiation of the sun.
The Universe is just one gigantic scale of Vibra-
tions, and I cannot repeat this too often, as until that
fact is assimilatedthoroughlythe Universe will never
be understood. Official science recognises only the
physicaluniverse, and only within the last forty years
has it discovered that the physical universe is made
up of these etheric vibrations. That is about as far
as orthodox science has reached to—day, but those of
us who have taken the opportunities afforded to get
into conversation with those higher intelligences in
the Etheric World are able to build on this in a way
that no orthodox scientist can. Science admits only_
what the physical senses and instruments respond to,
238 The Rock of Truth.
and nothingmore ; but outside of this there is a vast
Universe made up of finer or more rapid vibrationson
the one hand, and grosser or slower vibrations on the
other. That is what Spiritualists know and that
is why Spiritualists advise scientists not to ignore the
séance room, as until they cease doing so they will
continue to think of the Universe as a “vast pur-
poseless machine.”
That other vibrations exist is well known by
scientists, but only certain ranges, one the X—rays,
which are much faster waves than those which con-
stitute physical matter, and the slower waves called
dark heat waves and long electric waves. These
are proved to our senses by instruments, but there are
vast spaces stillunknown to physicalscience. There is
a big gap between the highest physical vibration and
the X-ray vibrations. The vibrations of the Etheric
World, I am told by my informants in that world,
commence just above those of the physical world.
We have confirmationof this through the knowledge
obtained from psychic photographyand clairvoyance,
and from the fact that etheric beings, called Ghosts,
have been seen from time to time through the ages.
Thus their lowest vibrations must be just about
touching our normal physical range of sight. The
chart on page 239 makes this clear and shows how
limited are our sense perceptions. Only the black
portion represents the physical world. This is all
we sense of the innumerableethericwaves makingup
the Universe.
We are told from the Etheric World of this vast
range of vibrations, and knowing what we do of
physical vibrations it is just one step further forward.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 239
We have now no difficulty in relating physicalmatter
to ethericmatter. Physicalmatter is made up of vibra-
tions withintwo fixed points. Ethericmatter is made
UNKNOWN BEYOND THIS
BEYOND
THE
ULTRA
VIOLET
is
U LTRA VIO LET
64.000 WAVESTO INCH
{VISIBLE WAVE5
34,000 WAVEST0 INCH
ETHERIC
WORLD
- PHYSICALWORLD
40010750 BILLION WAVES A szcoun
DARK
HEAT
WAVES
BEYOND UNKNOWN
THE
WAVES
INFRA
RED
I
LONG
ELECTRIC
WAVES
UNKNOWN BEYOND THIS
240 The Rock of Truth.
up of vibrationsjust beyond64,000 waves to theinch.
The EthericWorld is just a continuation of thevibra-
tions beyond what our senses can perceive. We
cannot sense above the physical range so long as we
inhabit the physical body. Clairaudient and clair-
voyant Mediums can to a limited extent, but they
are exceptional, clue to their etheric ears and eyes
being less heavily coated by physical matter than
thoseof normal people. How far beyondthephysical
range of vibrations the Etheric World goes we do
not know.
We are, however, told that a point is reached
when the vibrations get so rapid that we reach the
range of Mind. Mind must betermed substance, just
as physical and etheric matter go under the name of
substance, but substance is just vibration, the rate of
vibration conditioning the substance. We must use
the word substance as meaning the effect those vibra-
tions have on our consciousness. Consciousness is
really the effect of substance acting on substance, or
vibrations on vibrations.
Mind is composed of such fine vibrations that it
has the faculty,when in contact with physicalmatter,
of beingmoulded into the likeness of physicalthings.
In the Physical World it has also the power of
moulding physical matter, through acting on it by’.
means of our hands and feet. When in contact with
the finer vibrationsof the EthericWorld it can mould
etheric substance more easily than it can mould
physical matter on earth. This Mind substance is
the creative power in the Universe, and is called the
Universal Mind. Its speed of vibrations is so great
that it is highly plastic. This plastic substance, this
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 241
Mind, makes images, as I shall explain, to which we
give the name of “
thought,” and the more closely
related these images are so is the thought more in-
telligent. The Universal Mind is the Thinkingsub-
stance of the Universe, and it is forever seeking
expression. We appreciate it on earth only when in
contact with physical matter, and in the Etheric
World it is appreciated when in contact with
etheric substance.
What makes the electrons and protons revolve
in an orderly way withinthe atom? Each atom must
contain a minute proportion of thisthinkingsubstance.
All matter contains thisthinkingsubstance, this Mind,
as without it motion would cease, and without
motion there would be no Universe. Mind is at the
back of all physical substance, and whether it be a
stone or a human being, each is controlled by Mind
of a different degree. When Mind reaches a certain
degree of creative strengthit gathers round it etheric
matter, and with this combination it can enter into
contact with physical matter and promote growth.
Then we appreciate life. Every cell of our body,
every cell of every growing living thingis controlled
by Mind in harmonious direct Contact with the
governing mind of that body. We are made up of
this thinkingsubstance. Life in the physical world
is Mind in combinationwith ethericand physicalsub-
stance. That combination makes what we call a
livingthingdifferent from what we term a dead thing,
thoughin realitythereis nothingdead in theUniverse.
All is in motion, or all is motion, but only motion and
growthwhich we appreciate receives theterm ‘ ‘
life.’’
Each one of us is endowed with Mind just as
Q
242 The Rock of Truth.
every livingthingis, but the human beingis endowed
with Mind of a finer_ degree than any other living
thingon earth. Each one of us has our share of this
Universal Mind, and its interaction with physical
matter is evidently for the purpose of training it, the
Mind, in mental image-making.
Mind must be something super-physical as it’
does not decay ; it remains permanent. If it decayed’
like all physical matter, then thought would decay
also. We are continually renewing our physical
covering,includingour brain matter, but our thoughts
and memories remain perfect right back to childhood.
Mind, therefore, is somethingapart from thephysical,
Working in partnership with the physical brain, only"
during earth life. Deathmeans that the partnership
is severed, though we on earth see only the physical
effect of this separation, in the lifeless physical body.
This is just another of nature's deceptions, as reality
is far different from appearance.
Mind has the peculiar faculty of forming, or
moulding itself into, the images and movements of
its surroundings. These it can reproduce at will, and
through the medium of physical matter cause change
and movement here on earth. In the Etheric World"
it has the power of moulding ethericmatter in a more
direct fashion, and by thought, surrounding etheric
matter can be changed into the forms which the Mind
imagines. Earth, then, is the training ground for
Mind which has become individualised. Here it is.
trained in image-makingthroughcontact with earth's
grosser surroundings, and as it develops it takes more-
and more control over its surroundings. When it
ceases to function through physical matter it takes
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 243
greater and greater control of its surroundings in the
Etheric World, until ultimately we, as represented
by our Minds and our surroundings, become just as
we think. _
The individual Mind of each of us, our ego or
our self, is therefore trained in creative thought
through Contact with earth, which training conditions
our surroundings here and hereafter. The Mind
never dies but continues developingfor ever, and with
its increasing command over its surroundings, both
time and space become of less and less account.
Ultimately theycease to exist. My Mind is “
me
"
and your Mind is “
you.” It has been in existence
for all eternity, though not so individualised as now.
When it starts its earth experienceit enters on a road
which enables it to mould its surroundings more and
more as it thinks. Our Minds will ultimately be in
complete control of our surroundings, and as we
think,so shall we be. Then I surmise the vibrations
of our surroundings and of our minds will be at an
equal speed—thatis, in unison, and we shall beinhabi-
tants of the Realm of Mind, our eternal home. This,
I believe, is our destiny, and our first step towards
reaching this control over our surroundings, over
time and space, is our time on earth, and it is to
achieve this end that we, individualised Minds, pass
through our earth experiences. All children who-
die still—born or as infants are brought back to earth
by etheric nurses to be trained in image~making
through contact with the grosser physicalvibrations.
We now can understand what we mean by saying
thatwe see something. What happens is really this.
When we look at a house we see somethingcomposed
244 The Rock of Truth.
of different substances. Each substance contains a
different number of electrons and protons. The
wood ‘has so many, the glass has so many, and the
bricks have so many. These electrons agitate the
surrounding ether in accordance with their speed.
The substance that has one agitates the ether in a
difierent way from the substance that has a hundred.
This affects our Mind by the following process.
Light, comprising the entire range of the vibrations
of physical matter, strikes the house, and its vibra-
tions are thrown back to us in accordance with the
vibrations of each substance. These vibrations
agitate the atoms composing our physical eye and,
by means of our nerves, they are transformed into
vibrations of our physical brain and thence to our
etheric brain, which is an exact duplicate of our
physical brain. Through the etheric brain they,
mould our Mind, that plastic substance with which
we are all endowed.
The Mind in consequence builds itself into the
image of a house, and What we say we see and
appreciate, is our Mind—image of the house“ The
Mind is never at rest, alwaysin action,alwaysbuilding
itself into images, always creating new images, and
as these images are, so are we. Our existence is
made up of the images which the Mind constructs.
Likewise our Mind gets the impression of solidity
through our nerves by the same means. When we
stand up or sit or lie down, we are continually being
bombarded upwards and supported by a great multi-
tude of vibrations delivered by the atoms making up
the substances on which we rest.
It is, however, incorrect to say that here or the
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 245
hereafter is an illusion. That word gives an entirely
wrong impression of life. Life is real here and here-
after. Our surroundings here and hereafter are real
becauseall matter substance acts on Mind substance-,.
and without substance there would be neither Mind‘
nor matter. This world is consequently real and so
will the next world be, because reality is this Mind
image-making,and wherever you have this you have-
reality. It is impossible to imagine Mind Without
somethingto act on, or this somethingacted on with-
out Mind to image it or appreciate it and fashion it.
Hence, wherever Mind is individualised, it will
image and then create, fashion and mould its sur-
roundings,and so in the EthericWorld, its inhabitants.
create houses, clothes and everything else that the
Mind creates on earth. So also the Mind thatforms
the images of trees, flowers and grass on earth,
through physical matter, likewise forms them there
through etheric eyes alone, as the vibrations of"
etherictrees, etc., appeal to Mind there, just as here.
All, and much more, that exists on earth exists also‘
on the various planes of the Etheric World. Thus-
life there to its inhabitants is very similar to life here,
but to those capable of appreciating its beautyit is
more beautifulthan the earth, in consequence of the
finer vibrations of the Etheric World.
Mind has initiative of its own and can build up
images for itself without influence from without.
Once it has learned to make an image it can make it.
again, and here We have the constructive capacity of
Mind, as Mind, working always through the etheric
on to the physical brain, can build physical matter as
it conceives. All our bodily parts are built up as
246 The Rock of Truth.
conceived by our Mind. Every bodily movement,
sensed or unsensed, is first imaged by the Mind.
The Mind first thinks every heart beat and every
movement of the body, and when the physical body
-cannot respond, then follows the separation called
death, as if mind cannot function it leaves its physical
instrument, taking with it the etheric body. Thus
we see how Mind is themost potent influencein every
living thing, in the world and in the Universe; in
fact, it is the only reality, all else being its servant.
CHAPTER IX.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITUALISM.
PART II.
I WISH now to go back to the beginning of all
‘life, and trace its action and interaction with physical
matter from the humble protoplasm, through the
worm stage on to the fish stage, through the reptiles
and the marsupials to the apes, and then on to man.
I wish to trace briefly the evolution of Mind in its
association with physical matter.
Evolution is but a Word to comprise the long,
long story of Mind expressing itself through physical
matter. Mind can act on physicalmatter onlythrough
etheric substance. The vibrations of Mind are too
rapid for it to be able to obtain direct contact with
physicalmatter. Mind thereforeworksalwaysby first
buildingup an ethericcounterpart, and as this etheric
counterpart grows it attaches to itself physicalmatter.
If we go back to the humblest protoplasm we find
Mind in the humblest form actingon physicalmatter.
Protoplasm is the physical basis for life, and in its
'
humblest form such as the protozoa, it propagates by
dividing itself into two perfect cells. If we think
carefullyof thismarvellous act, we come to the logical
conclusion that life is propagated by part of the
original trinity coming away and forming a new in-
dividual unit. 'As the original unit must have been
guided by Mind, it is evident that part of the Mind
which guided the original must have distributed itself
betweenthe two. Here we have a simple illustration
of the propagation of the species. In humble life
‘is
248 The Rock of Truth.
sub—division causes propagation, but as life develops
it requires the sub-division of male and female to pro-
duce offspring, but the method is the same.
At some time far backin history, when thisworld"
of ours cooled sufficiently to enable Mind through
etheric matter to contact with physical matter, a
humble speck of physical matter was gatheredround‘
a humble speck of etheric matter. This humble-
speck of etheric matter was governed by Mind sub-
stance, and this trinity originated life on earth in the
earliest forms by sub—division. Life was propagated
until the waters of the world, before the Palaeozoic
age, swarmed with protozoas. Once contact was
made with physical matter Mind became better able
to express itself, and it conceived all sorts of forms
and shapes. Just as it conceived them, so it built
them up. Physical matter seems to be like a garden
in which Mind is capable of growing and developing.
Propagationgraduallyassumed more complicated
methods, but still the principle was the same, the
parents passing down to the offspring a part of their
own trinity—Mind, etheric body and physical body ;.
and again and again the old story was repeated of
life, growth, propagation and then decay through
Mind and ethericsubstance parting from the physical.
Mind could only remain in contact with the physical
for a limited time. It was not a permanent habita-
tion. The etheric duplicate could only retain the
physical around it for a short time, as physicalmatter
is always in a state of decomposition, and evidentl
theethericbody could renew and buildup thismaterial
for only a limited time. Our physical body is com-
pletely renewed every seven years, but the etheric-
The Philosophy of Spiritualiism. 249
structure is of a permanent character. Consequently
it survives the physicalbody. The time comes when
thisrenewal of thephysicalbody cannot be continued,
and what we call death then follows. Death, how-
ever, is death only to the physical which has been
temporarily animated by Mind capable of creative
thought. The life—giving Mind still persists, con-
trolling the etheric duplicate.
How long this combination of Mind and the
etheric counterpart continued apart from physical
matter in the days of primitive life, no one
can say ; but this we know, that a time came
when the combinationdid continue, when Mind was
strong enough to retain its individualityand persist in.
the Etheric World as an individual unit. Before this
time, doubtless, the individual Mind unit was not
sufficiently strong to stand alone and it merged into»
the mass Mind of the Universe, to manifest itself
again at some later period in some otherphysicalform.
Mind is only recognised by us through the physical,
and had we not the guidance and knowledge obtained
through Spiritualism we should be at a loss to under-
stand what life really is, and what it means.
The time came, after a long period of evolu-
tionary effort, when man arrived on the scene, a;
thinkingbeing; but had we not the evidence of Spirit-
ualism we could not account for his existence or know
his destiny. Except for the evidence of Spiritualism
there is little to make us believe other than that he i
is a thinkingbeing through some chemical reaction
taking place within his brain, and that when death
comes the reaction ceases and his consciousness be-
comes extinguished. The fact that this is not so-
T250 The Rock of Truth.
accounts for the religious instinct in man, and we
-know through the evidence obtained from Spiritua-
ilism that this instinct has a real meaning behind it.
'
Just as the original protoplasmwas not merely a
physical creation, so likewise are we not a physical
creation. We are a mental creation. We belongto
a higher substance than physicalmatter, and physical
matter is just like a diver’s suit. It is very useful
for the diver when on the bed of the ocean, just as
our physicalbody is very useful to us when in contact
with the grosser vibrations of the earth. Just as the
-diver is not at home on the sea bottom, so are we not
.at home on theearth’ssurface. Otherwisewe should
not spend so much of our time in giving thought to
what follows death. It is because instinctively we
‘know thatwe are onlytemporary inhabitantshere that
we have reached out to obtain knowledge of our
ihereafter.
Animals have not this instinctive feeling because
their minds are not sufficiently developed to retain
their individuality permanently as man does. They
retain their individualityfor a time only on the animal
plane in the Etheric World, and then with memories
dissipating like a dream, their minds return to the
mass Mind of the Universe. They have not the
,.power to continue image-making. ‘Animals, there-
fore, have only a temporary individuality which
persists for a short time in the Etheric World, but
affection on the part of an ethericbeingfor an animal
'-can retain that animal's individuality for a longer
period than is possible if no human affection exists.
This affection seems to stimulate the mind of the
animal, but it is only a temporary stimulation, as ulti-
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 251
matelytheanimal mind must return to themass Mind.
To "put it briefly,creatures guided by instinct only,
retain their individualityafter death for a period, but
with man, guided by intelligent thought, the per-
.-sonality persists.
Human beings persist, though the lower types
of human mind, more akin to the animal mind than
the human, doubtless follow the line prescribed for
animal life. Onlythemind capable of continuingthis
image—making retains its memories of the past and
its individuality. When we reached this stage who
can tell, but the time did come far back in history
when the individual persisted after death and did not
return to the mass Mind. ‘
It is Mind that makes us what we are. It
seems to remember all experiences it has had in the
previous forms of life, as prior to birth each one of
us goes through all the different shapes and forms of
more primitive lives. In the first four weeks after
conception, there is little appreciable difference
between the embryos of a man, of a dog, and of a
tortoise. The ultimate difference is due to the fact
that we went on developing before birth to the man
-stage. A still-born child continues its development
in the Etheric World and develops into a man or
woman.
Mind is the constructive thinkingsubstance of
the Universe.’ It fashions all the flora and thefauna,
and in the most advanced of us it seems to be so re-i
fined that it has become more closely related to the
directive power of the Universe, and is thus attracted
to it like a magnet. We can thus understand what it
means when we are told, by our friends on the other
252 The Rock of Truth.
side, that as our Mind develops we reach finer and
finer planes of consciousness, where the Mind has
more and more direct bearing on its surroundings,
and can mould and be moulded by its surroundings
in a way unimaginable here. Our destiny seems to-
be thatwe ultimatelybecomeas we think,when Mind
has such complete control of its surroundings that to»
think is to be—always, however, retaining our in-
dividuality. Just as the sea is composed of individual
atoms, so our individuality and personality persist
when we reach the ocean of full control and under-
standing, which is to become in full affinity with the-
Divinity, the all-directing power of the Universe.
The Universe is only limited by the limitations
of Mind, but, as it is impossible to imagine a region
where Mind cannot penetrate, the logical conclusion
is thatthe Universe is withoutlimit. Limit is related’
to physical distance and time. In the region where-
Mind is supreme and in complete control, nothingis
limited, and there the Universe will be compre--i
hensible. The Universe, as I have previously
said, is just one gigantic scale of vibrations.
The finer ranges I term Mind, which has the-
capacity of directing the other vibrations into
the ways and shapes it conceives. This substance-
that Mind acts on I term matter. Mind is the-
positive, matter the negative, and these two sub-
stances, Mind and Matter, make up the Universe.
Matter without Mind is impossible to imagine, just as.
it is impossible to imagine Mind without matter.
Mind and matter are co-related; they are always
found together. Mind cannot be acted on by
nothing,and without Mind it is impossible to imagine
matter.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 253
Mind and matter are the two substances of which
the Universe is composed. Mind is that subtle sub-
stance which directs matter, and which is the cause
of matter, as all matter has Mind behind it, causing
‘the vibrations which we call matter. They are twin
brothers, inseparable. Mind directs the movingpro—
tons and electrons, but it is crude Mind and cannot be
compared with the Mind which appreciates that such
things exist. Mind is present in a tree ; it is also
present in the animal, but it is mind of a different
degree. In the former it directs the growth of the
tree and what nourishment it is to absorb and what
it is to reject. In the latter it does all this and more ;
it appreciates the tree as well. The tree cannot
appreciate the animal, but the animal can appreciate
the tree. Plant life, therefore, does not make mental
imagesas animals do, and thusdoes not survive death.
Only mental image—makers do. Mind in the animal
appreciates the tree according to its development;
the appreciation of a dog is different from that of the
bird. To the savage the tree means less than to the
botanist.
Mind is of two degrees, one directinggrowthand
the other capable ‘of. appreciation and intelligent
thought. ~ The first is called the sub-conscious and
the other the conscious Mind. Mind in a stone
directs the whirling electrons and protons. Mind in
an architect fashionsthestone to its own design. The
mind of the architect has therefore two qualities, the
sub-conscious sustaining the functions of his body,
and the conscious capable of creative thought. Mind
can therefore be divided into four categories on earth
—the lowest as found in a stone ; then the mind of
plant life; next the mind of animal life; lastly the
254 The Rock of Truth.
mind of man capable of creative thought, and thus
all things are subservient to him.
Mind in different degrees, therefore, controls the
Universe. It is thecause of the vibrations of the
Universe, and matter is the effect. In its higher
degrees it can control and fashion matter, its less in-
telligent brother, and as it reaches states of finer and
finer matter so does its control increase.
Matter is the effect of Mind. Mind, this all-
powerful cause energisingtheUniverse, causes motion
and that motion is matter. Matter, therefore, can be
termed Mind in motion, and the effect on us of this
motion is what we term matter. Mind, therefore,
is the Universe, and all thatwe see and sense is Mind
acting on Mind, one rate of motion on another rate
of motion. We are therefore part of a Universe
of motion or vibration, the entire Universe being
motion and only motion. The slower motion, namely
matter, inter-acts with the faster motion, namely
Mind ; but all is Mind varying in degrees of motion.
What we call physical matter, as I have
previously explained, is just this motion at a
certain fixed rate of vibration. Mind in contact
with the physical can only appreciate a certain fixed
scale of motion. Etheric matter which we do not
sense is matter at another fixed rate of vibration, and
as this rate of motion varies so etheric matter varies
in its relation to Mind. The mind, as it travels on-
wards throughdeath from plane to plane, appreciates
finer and finer rates of vibrationjust as thesheaththat
covers it becomes more refined. At death, the
heaviest sheath is cast aside, and Mind appreciates a
finer range of vibrations which constitutes the first
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 255»
stage of its journey in the EthericWorld ; but as our
etheric body gets more and more refined it becomes
fitted for a finer environment, and so it rises into:
realms of finer matter which surround this world, the
only difference being that on earth we leave a body
behind us. In the Etheric World our etheric body
gets more and more refined in itself, and thus it
becomes fitted for a finer environment.
Everywhere throughout the Universe we find’;
these two states of motion existing, and as the varia-
tion of motion is, so is the thought. Thought is the
effect of these two motions. Their combinationcon-
stitutes our consciousness, and consciousness consists
of the mental images, which are constantly being-
formed by our mind, as the result of the continual
bombardment of minute vibrations through our sense-
organs and brain on to the Mind.
Therefore it follows that the different combina-
tions of thought make up the individual’s existence-
Here in thephysicalworld, Mind plus physicalmatter
makes us what we are, and is the explanationof our
existence. In a further stage Mind plus etheric
matter makes us what we are, and in a stage still"
further on, when the combinationchanges again, so...
shall we be as the combinationis, and so on till we
reach the stage when surroundingmatter is so refined‘
thatit can be moulded into whatever shapes the Mind”
conceives.
Then, and thenonly,shall we be able to compre-
hend the Universe. Boundaries and limits, which
to us here on earth are such an insuperable difficulty
in our arriving at an understanding of the Universe,
will by then have disappeared, as limits are associated?
256 The Rock of Truth.
with matter but not with Mind. Our present difii-
culties in grasping the Universe arise through our
mind beingin association with physicalmatter, which
is limited in its vibrations, and through attempting to
explain the Universe from a physicalor limited angle.
When we reach the region of Mind, which is the
Universe, the all and in all, our difficulties will dis-
.appear. All we need to do now is to accept the fact
of Infinite Mind, and that the Universe must be
viewed from that angle and not from our finite or
physical angle. Then the rest is easy.
In some far off stage of our career, if we have
the desire, we can become one with Infinity or
Divinity, but until that stage is reached the Universe
will always remain a problem. The way to make it
[cease being a problem is in imagination to enter this
region of pure thoughtand look on the Universe now
as We shall look on it then. Only when Mind is fully
developed can it comprehend all, but in imagination
.some of us can envisage a timeless, spaceless, limit-
less Universe where Mind is all and in all.
Beyond this we cannot go even in imagination.
We have now reached the stage of pure thoughtand
have become as Gods, with our surroundings at our
‘complete control. We need not dwell too long in
‘thisregion, as theillimitabletime and distance between
us and it is so great. What is more important is
what practical conclusions we can draw from this
"better understanding of Mind.
As the Universe is motion and the planets and
stars which we sense here on earth are just motion
at the same fixed rate of speed as our physicalworld,
it is likewise conceivable thatthe sun and each planet
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 257
has surroundingit an ethericworld also, and thatthe
etheric sun gives light to the various etheric worlds.
‘Are the belts round Saturn not an etheric world in
process of formation, and was our world at one time
not like it, far backin history? The sun is thecentre
of our planet system and round it are movingspheres.
The sun itself is moving round another centre, and
thatcentre may be moving round another, and so on.
Where lies the fixed centre, if there be one, no one
knows. There is doubtless an explanation of this
seeming infinity of physical matter, but always re-
member that all physical appearances are different
from reality, and so the explanation may be simple
enough to understand when we are sufficiently
developed mentally to realise the reality behind the
appearance.
To take our own earth to beginwith, by a slowing
down of vibrationsit has reached a stage to which we
give the name physical, but that is not our entire
world. To physicalpeople, yes ; but theirs is a very
limited outlook. In the slowing down of vibrations
and theforming of the earth, can We not imaginehow
it all happened? Imagine a world at one time vastly
larger than our globe as we know it. Imagine this
whirling mass of fine substance, let us say ten
"thousand times the size of our earth. As it cooled
the centre vibrated more slowly than the outer cir-
cumference, and so the cooling process went on, a
hard material centre forming which we now call the
Earth, and all round it various degrees of substances
which we cannot sense, but still theyexist and are as
much a part of our world as we are. The earth is the
centre of the world, but the greater part of the world
R
258 The Rock of Truth.
extends far out into spaceand it is quite unsensed by us
physical beings. Heaven is no fantastic realm as it
has been painted to us in the legends of the past.
It is an astronomical locality, and this being so, I
would suggest that in future it receives the name
ETHERIA, instead of the name Spirit World or
‘Etheric World, which has been used in the past to
denote the supe“r—physical world. It is not in some
far-off region in space, but is part of our world and
goes round the sun alongwiththisearth. Just as our
earth turns on its axis, so the Etheric World turns
along with us. It is all part of one whole. The
earth is like the stone in a peach and the Etheric
World is like the fruit surrounding it. Just like the
stone, so the earth is the life—giving seed to the
Etheric World. Another good simile is that of an
onion, which, made up of different skins, makes one
connected whole.
The complete world, then, is made up of a fixed
scale of vibrations, and only a small range of these
affect our senses. As time goes on we shall go up the
rungs of the ladder, leaving the physical for the first
planebeyondtheearth,and so on, alwaysappreciating
the surroundings in tune with our etheric body ; but
though we shall appreciate only one range of vibra-
tions normally, yet by thought we shall be able to
lower our vibrations and come back and appreciate
the lower ranges through which we have passed.
To begin with, far back in history, Mind could
only enter into contact with physicalmatter in a crude
state ; but gradually the physical was able to accom-
modate Mind of higher and higher quality, or in other
words, of finer and finer vibration. It is logical to
believethat we shall return to the range of vibrations
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 259
The above diagram I have prepared for the purpose of representing
as clearly as possible the real world. No. 1 represents the Earth. and from
Nos. 2 to B the various etheric worlds, each of which has a surface. They
ilterpenetrate each other, but the distance of each surface from the other,
which is represented in the above chart as being equal, must not be taken
so literally, as the distances vary between the respective surfaces. It must
also be understood that the Etheric worlds extend to great distances into space,
and that their relation in size to the earth is proportionately much greater
than is here shown.
However, this is the best representation that can be made, and the reader
must imagine each of the eight worlds interpenetrating each other and yet
forming one complete whole. This can be more easily imagined when it is
kept in mind that each sphere is made up of atoms vibrating at difierent speeds.
There is nothing known to physics to prevent waves of different frequencies
being simultaneously present in the ether.
The earth is vibrating between 34,000 and 64,000 waves to the inch,
which range represents the limit of vibrations we physical beings can appreciate.
Each sphere has a range of vibrations of its own, which can be appreciated only
by those attuned to its vibrations, and each range follows the other in speed.
,Thus the highest earth vibrations just touch the lowest vibrations of No. 2,
and so on.
I cannot find anything in science to contradict in any way the above
conception of this greater world; in fact I would go further and say that
the latest theories of physical science leave a place open for the etheric world,
and I believe that it is only a matter of time before it is accorded its proper
place by orthodox science.
_
...
_,_..._._.__,._.._.._
260 The Rock of Truth.
from which the Mind originally came, just as the
"beingsbelow us will reach the range from which their
mind came. It seems as if part of the Universal
Mind reached down to the physical and in each in-
-dividual is returning whence it came, like to like.
Thus can be understood the saying, “
We are all the
sons of God, we come from God and we return to
God.” So also can be understoodgthereason for all
the rites, ceremonies and symbols of all religions.
So the action and reaction goes on, Mind em-
bedding itself for a time in the physical and then
leavingit, takingwithit theethericbody, which it has
shaped and which has been encased by a physical
garment. This latter returns to the physical earth,
to becomeat some later date the habitationof another
mind. Thus can be seen the true meaning of the
resurrection of the dead. The physical bodies as
we know them, in the shape and form in which Mind
‘constructed them, are not re-animated at some future
date by the return of Mind to its former habitation.
The particles, however, which composed the body,
in one form or another will be re-animated by
another Mind, and again give physicalform to a living
creature. This comes about through plants which
give food to animal life. This food replaces the
wastage of the physical bodies of all animal life, and
so what was once an animated physical body dies to
return to form a part of other physical bodies. In
this, and this way only, can we accept the physical
resurrection of the dead body. The frame—work,
the etheric body, which held the physical together,
however, passes from it at death, never to return.
This actionand reactiongoes on day by day, and
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 261
each one of us is awaiting our turn to go throughthe
same metamorphosis as has been gone throughby all
thatlived on earthbeforeus. This interplayof thetwo-
states of motion, to which we give the names Mind
and Matter, has taken place on earth since the first
protoplasmdeveloped in some stagnant pool. ‘ It has.
gone on by slow degrees till the mind became suffi-
ciently developed to act independentlyapart from the-
physical, and through the etheric become at death an
etheric human being with a seemingly endless career
before him. With this etheric body the individual is
able to develop in a methodicalway, thoughthe body
may change in shape and form as it reaches higher‘
stages of development. Mind and the etheric body
are, inseparable; to imagine Mind without a-body
is unthinkable. Immediately after death it reaches
the level of vibrations to which the mind can respond’
through the etheric brain. It reaches its plane of
thought, which is just as real and tangible to it in
this new state as it was in the physical.
Doubtless this individualisation of mind came
slowly and it was long before the individuality could
be maintained; but the time came when it could,
and then it was that the Etheric World was man’s.
real home. Then step by step as the mind became
more and more developed, so the Etheric World be—
came inhabited, and we are now told of seven distinct
planes of ‘habitation, real and tangible. Each suc--
ceeding plane is more beautiful and each in turn is
inhabited by minds more and more advanced in pro-
portion as the surrounding matter is more refined/.
.
The place we reach immediately following the
earth plane is of finer matter than physicalmatter but
262 The Rock of Truth.
of grosser matter than the plane above it, and so on,
each plane being composed of finer and finer sub-
-stance. As the mind develops so it automatically
rises to the place to which it becomes attuned. Our
mind must reach a state of harmony with its sur-
roundings or otherwise there is no happiness, and,
as in the Etheric World we can harmonise ourselves
with our surroundings more easily than on earth, so
we reach the plane of our desire quite naturally.
‘Consequently the Etheric World, to all of a happy
and contented disposition, can be a happier and more
contented world to live in thanis the Physical World.
"As the mind is, so is our happiness or unhappiness.
Mind always responds to the vibrations to which
it is fitted, from the physical to the etheric and from
the etheric to the super-etheric. We are told that
there are eight known planes comprising this world
if we include this earth's surface, but that there
is a region beyond that quite apart from this
world which we shall eventually enter. Then this
world will cease to be for us, and we shall cease to
move with it. However, when we get thus far, all
earth memories will have faded, and so thereare none
to return to tell us. Wherever life is, all is natural,
and so life on the next plane of thought is a natural
.and rational one, as our mind reaches the conditions
to which it is attuned. Just as it is attuned to certain
«conditions on earth, so it will reach similar conditions
in the etheric. It is the same mind and it attunes
‘itself to the vibrations to which it responds. Nature
makes all changes slowly,and death is no exception.
It is little noticed by some. Many pass on and
hardly realise at first that a change has occurred, as
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 263
the mind at once attunes itself to the new conditions,
and theseconditions, to beginwith, are very like those
to which we are accustomedin our earthsurroundings.
Many, however, cannot get away from earth con-
ditions, as theirminds are so conservative, and in such
cases, as they were on earth so they are there. Do
we not know many people who never want to
change, and are always satisfied with their present
conditions? Only the mind that is prompted by the
urge for something new and something better ad-
vances to higher realms. All the same I am told
thatto all, sooner or later, comes thisurge or impulse,
and with it the desire for somethingbetter, and then
progress commences.
CHAPTER X.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITUALISM.
PART III.
I HAVE been at some trouble to find out the
different experiences which different types of mind
have had after the change called Death. Im-
mediately surrounding the earth there is the lowest
etheric plane of all, where life continues for a time
for those of fixed earth ideas. Those with crude
religious beliefs, definitely fixed, attend the religious
services on earth to which their minds have been
accustomed. Those of low morals attend the low
places of the earth. Those with drunken habits
frequent our public houses. Conditions are decided
by desire. The man absorbed in business or politics
maintains for a time after death his interest in these,
attending at the office, or the factory, or political
meetings, and showing no desire to rise above the
earth plane. I have come across those who for
years have been wanderingabout the earth’s surface,
interested only in earth’s affairs and some quite un-
aware that they had left the earth for ever. They
could not understand how it was that they could go
from room to room in their own houses, see every-
thingthat was going on, and yet could not be heard
or appreciated. -
These persons are sometimes seen and heard,
and are the cause of hauntingsor ghosts ; but theyare
exceptional. They are bound to earth by very
definite ties of memory, such as a murder, or on
account of something forgotten which affects their
friends on earth, or some deed which is regretted.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 265
Those with somethingon their conscience may hang‘
about this earth for ‘many years, but to them time is
very different, and what to us seems a long time to
them is not necessarily so. Gradually the earth«
memory fades and they rise to higher planes of con-
sciousness and mix with others who, though they
may have earth memories and may return to earth’
from time to time, yet realise the change that has-.
taken place, and live a natural life in the new world’
to which they have become accustomed.
It is not those people who haunt the earth who
come to séances, but they are at times brought to»
séances for the purpose of awakening them to a
realisation of their new surroundings. Such séances.
are called “
rescue circles,” and are being held all
over the civilised world. They are for the purpose‘
of awakening an urge or desire for somethingbetter
in those people who have never been able to untie”
their minds from earth, and reach the surface of their‘
new abode. The old term Hades doubtless Was.
meant for this Interland between the two surfaces,
where roam undeveloped souls. Etheric mission-
aries, however, are alwaysat worktryingto enlighten»
them,and raise themby thoughtto theirproper place,
and with the desire for somethingbetter they leave-
our earth’s surface and reach the one above quite-
naturally. These helpers often find this impossible
to do and make use of us on earth to help them, as.
we are able to influence those backward people in a.
way they cannot do.
Attheordinary séances we meet again thosewho-
have passed on to their proper plane, and come back.
to tell their friends that theystill live and are happy..
‘.266 The ‘Rock of Truth.
The majority find their new level and take up the
new life quite naturally. They realise the change
-that has taken place without much delay.
The mind plays a much larger part in the Etheric
World than it does here, and so it can attune itself to
-the surroundings for which it is fitted in a way it
cannot do on earth. We all know people who are
out of harmony with their surroundings on earth.
That does not happen there. Here on earth we are
.-all living on the same surface. We are meeting the
.-good and the bad, the intelligent and the ignorant,
though We may have nothingin common with those
we meet. There, those of the same type of thought
meet and live together. There the power of Mind
is so much more in evidence that like draws to like
in a far greater degree than here. Here our work
and every-day occupations bring us into contact with
minds of all types, but thereminds of like development
congregate together, and the higher the development
-the higher is the surface or plane theylive on. Har-
mony of thought is the magnet which draws like to
like, so that, though, within limits of development,
all kinds live on the same surface there as here, com-
munities havingsimilarideas and ideals live together.
The only earth example I thinkof is a university or
public school, where all live together with a common
interest.
_
Recently I obtained some further valuable infor-
mation, by means of the Direct Voice, with reference
"to the exact situations of the various planes sur-
roundingthe earth, and the conditions in each. The
replies I obtained to my questions are in complete
agreement with the replies I received eight years ago
The Philosophy of 'S;bi-ritualism. 267
when John C. Sloan was the Medium. The Medium
in this instance was a London lady of independent
means and gives her services only to a few friends.
She prefers that her name should not be mentioned.
However, the same phenomenaoccurred as occurred
throughSloan’s mediumship. I was anxious to have
further information on this subject of location, and
thereplies I received will now be read as an important
addition to the many replies to my various questions
which I gave in On the Edge of the Etheric.
,1. Question.—Do the planes on which you tell us you live,
exist above the surface of the earth?
Reply.—These planes move with the earth and form part
of its orbit. The first plane is a kind of Clearing Station
‘where the different nations live together. Family Life is
most important, and the members await relatives of their
generation to go on together to the next plane. So far as
&the first plane is concerned, it does exist above the surface
of the earth, but it also is in connection with the earth plane.
2. Quest£on.—What is the distance of the first plane from
"the earth’s surface, and the distance of the other planes which
extend out into space?
Reply.——The first plane is quite close to the earth. There
/is a distance between ‘each plane, but distance does not mean
quite the same thing on this side as it does to you on earth.
'3. Question.—If you live on a surface beyond the earth’s
surface, how do you get back to earth?
RepZy.~—By mental effort. It is easy for those in a
higher plane to go to the lower, but those in the lower cannot
go to those in the higher. Those coming from higher
,planes bring their atmospheric or rather etheric vibrations
‘with them.
4. Question.—Do all people who die on earth live on the
same surface just as we live together on the surface of the
«earth?
Reply.——The general answer is “Yes”; but it must be
remembered that there are earth-bound souls who do not
268 The Rock of Truth.
arrive at the first plane withoutassistance, and in some cases
for a very considerable time, so far as time is reckoned on
the earth. There are special places for children to be brought
up in, as well as healing stations for those who come over,
and other healing stations for those living on the first plane.
But the word “place” does not quite signify the same thing
as is meant by it on the earth plane.
5. Question.—Does our surface appear to you as the bed of‘
the ocean appears to us? Namely, you are above us and
can get down to us?
Reply.—It is true that the etheric planes are above and
around the earth, but the first plane is close to the earth.
The reference to the bed of the ocean can only be accepted.
as a simile. We have nothing quite corresponding to your’
earth vision of the ocean bed which we can give as an illus-
tration of what your surface looks like when you are coming
to us from earth.
6. Question.—Haswhat is equivalent to our earth’s surface
in your world, got trees and houses?
Reply.—Trees, houses, hills and vales exist on every
plane from the physical plane upwards. When we have-
lowered our vibrations down to the physical plane we ex-
perience what exists on your earth’s surface. The flowers
and trees are brighter on our hills than they are in the Vales;
it is a matter of light.
7. Question.—Are your vibrations similar to ours but
faster? Are they of the same nature, but just above our
capacity to sense?
Reply.—The vibrations are faster and finer. This
applies to each plane; that is, the higher the plane the faster
and finer the vibrations.
These replies should be read in conjunctionwith
the replies given in my previous book. It is evident
that the Etheric World is part of our world, that it:
extends out into space, thateach sphere has a surface
which is somewhat similar to our surface. Each
surface and sphere can be penetrated by what they
term lowering their vibrations by thought, which
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 269
explains how it is they can get back to earth, just
..as it explains how those who die reach the surface
of the plane which is to be their home. Further,
etheric substance of which it is composed is as free
to its inhabitants as our air is to us, and as it can be
"moulded by thoughtinto the shapes required without
.manual work as here, so life is easier, and there are
no such things as workingfor money, or master and
servant, all being free to live just as they choose.
The Etheric World is different to every type of
mind. To thoseof high and noble thoughtsit appears
different than to those of low intelligence. All in
“the same plane can sense the same things, but these
appear different accordingto themental development.
To the good and high—minded these are beautiful,to
others the reverse. Everything is natural and res-
ponds to the Vibrations of the various types of mind.
We hear of some having brighter clothes than
others, the reason being that they are living in sur-
roundings of finer matter, and consequently their
garments affect the clairvoyant as beingof a different
quality from that of those living in grosser siir—
roundings. The effect the finer surroundings have
on theclairvoyantcauses theclairvoyantto appreciate
them as radiant light, whereas those living in ‘low
surroundings impress the clairvoyant as being of
a darker nature. It is all a question of vibra~
‘tion. Dark objects vibrate more slowly than bright
-objects. '
These various planes are actual localities sur-
"rounding this world, but it is difficult for those in the
Etheric World to convey any definite ideas of
distance. In that world to think oneself from place
270 The Rock of Truth.
to place is to accomplish the journey almost at the
speed of thought. Consequently what would be
called distance to us becomesno distance, to speak of,
to them. However, these localities extend far above
the earth’s surface, and we are told that Etheria
is made up of seven spheres interpenetrating each
other, and if we include the earth there are eight
spheres. Each sphere has a surface, called a plane,
and above the surface of the first sphere is the surface
of the second sphere. Those on the surfaces of the
spheres below can look through the surfaces above
them, just as we on earth are looking through all
those surfaces and do not know it. ,
Each succeeding sphere is composed of finer
substance, and consequentlythesurface thatis of finer
substance than the one below cannot be seen by those
on the lower surface. As development proceeds,
those who progress become more and more attuned"
to the finer substance beyond and above them, and‘
so parting takes place there as here. Call it death
if you like ; but there is no body to bury, and those
who pass to a higher plane can come back to their
friends at will. By lowering the vibrations of their
etheric bodies by thought, they come through their
own surface from plane to plane right back to earth,
but they cannot rise above the surface to which they
are mentallyand bodilyfitted. Those inhabitingthe-
Etheric World are in advance of us here on earth,
as this inter-travel between the various planes is at.
common occurrence and part of their lives. Here on
earth, gradually and slowly,the return of our friends.
from Etheria is assuming greater and greater pro-
portions. In time it is reasonable to assume that, as.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 271
we develop psychically, our appreciation of the
presence of those called dead will become a more
frequent occurrence.
Instead of beingignored on their return to earth,
our friends will come back to be greeted by all, and
then death will have lost its sting. Rememberalways»
that this earth of ours is a very small part of our real’
world, of which we are the inhabitants. Our earth’,
composed of matter called physical,is onlya very small
proportion of the matter which goes to make up our
world. If we consider the whole world as composed‘ '
of matter at difierent rates of vibration, and imagine‘
the sum total of all these as a hundred, then we-
might say that twelve per cent of this matter has
slowed down sufficiently to become physical. The
remaining eighty-eight per cent still forms part of the‘
World revolving with us, but it is unsensed by us
physical beings.
,
Did the physicalfirst give life to the eighty-eight
per cent, or did the eighty-eight per cent give life to-
the twelve per cent? Did the physicalpropagate life‘
in the etheric or the etheric life in the physical?
Life is something apart from the physical, as the
physicalalone would be devoid of life. A dead tree
has lost something a live tree possesses. When
Mind reaches a stage to cause movement which can-
be appreciated, we call the object capable of move-
ment animated, or living, and the cause of this we
term Life. The word includes mind the motive, and‘
the ethericcounterpart the mechanism. This then is
Life, and as life includes mind and the etheric struc-
ture, it pertains to the etheric and must have come
from the etheric. Life can exist in the etheric apart
V,-—-:~
'272 The Rock of Truth.
from the physical, but not in the physicalapart from
the etheric. The physical, therefore, has been im-
pregnated and is still being impregnated by this in-
visible inter-action with the etheric.
From the etheric has all life come and to it will
it return. The physical, however, gives individuality
to life, but what constitutes life must have been in
«existence before the physical ever was. We think
of life only in conjunction with the physical, but in
this we are wrong. Life may have existed before
the physical was formed, but of its nature we can
only guess. What we believe is that the physical
-gives to life the individuality it has to-day and had in
the past, and life after passing through the physical
retains individuality for a length of time according
to the mental development. Othertypes of life exist
in Etheria which differ from those of this world, and
-presumably theycame into being through interaction
betweentheplanes on which theyexist and theplanes
.above them. But all physical life came from the
-etheric just as all etheric life has come from a higher
source. The planes nearer the earth, therefore, are
more like this earth than those further away, as their
vibratory conditions more closely resemble earth
-conditions.
And now in conclusion. From theinformationI
have been given from the Etheric World, We now
realise that the earth is but a small part of the real
world, and thatthe real world is composed of various
spheres at different rates of vibration. We also now
realise that Mind is the governing power in the
Universe, but only when it is in conjunction with the
'
physicalcan we appreciate it. Mind, however, never
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 273
acts directly on the physical but through the etheric
counterpart on to the physical. The ethericduplicate
is first conceived by the mind, and just as it grows
it attaches to it physical matter.
The time comes to every individualised life
when physical matter cannot be retained, and the
etheric counterpart, governed by Mind, returns to
the etheric environment. We subconsciously will
our own death. This interaction of Mind with the
physical has been proceeding on earth since the first
protoplasmmoved on its own initiative. Up through
the various stages of evolution on earth, finer and
finer mind substance was able to manifest throughthe
physical, and so has all life developed. It has pro-
pagateditself throughpart of thistrinity,mind, etheric
matter and physical matter, detaching itself and
forming offspring.
Mind has developed itself through coming into
contact with the physical. For a time it was not
strong enough to retain its individualityand its mem-
ories sufficientlylong to becomean ethericbeing,and
consequently Mind returned to the Mass Mind to
again enter the physical, each time becomingstronger
and more individualised. Then the time came when
the first individual unit was able to retain his memory
and identity, as his mind images were sufficiently
strong to last in the etheric. Thus man became an
etheric being, but not immortal. Only as Mind
developed did thestage come when his mind remained
indefinitely individualised in the etheric. Then the
etheric was his real home and the physical only the
starting point in his career.
If we now follow man in the stages onwards, we
S
274 The Rock of Truth.
find that this individualised mind harmonises with its
surroundings and consequently reaches conditions to
which it is attuned. Mind is capable of development
and so it can rise to finer and finer surroundings, and
it does so, owing to its obtaining greater and greater
power over its etheric body, which it can attune to
its surroundings by the power of thought. As Mind
gets into finer surroundings it can act with greater
ease on surroundingsubstance, becausethatfiner sub-
stance is more akin to Mind. The Mind behind it
is more easily reached, as all substance is animated
and guided by Mind. Just as each of us can in-
fluence other minds on earth, so the time will come
when we can likewise influence our surroundings.
Gradually the individual rises to finer and finer
surroundings, and as he rises he gets more and more
control of his surroundings, until ultimately his
thoughts so condition his surroundings that he
is as he thinks, and thus he reaches the region
of pure thought. That is man’s destiny as far as I
can tell ; call it reality if you will, but all is reality to
us in every stage upwards. The reality of one stage
ceases to be so at the next, which in turn becomes
real, and so we go on from one reality to another,
looking back on the previous stage as but an inferior
expression of the one reached. No finite being at
our stage of consciousness can comprehend more than
this state of pure thought. A picture that is going
to take eternity to paint cannot be grasped when
the preliminary sketches are first being pencilled in.
Afterwe have reached thisstage of pure thought,
will each individualised mind not reincamate? So
some think, but to me it is inconceivable that Mind
The Philosophy of Spiritualism. 275
when it reaches thatstage will ever thinkof returning
to earth. _It has reached a stage of strength and
virility,its earth memories are forgotten, it becomes
separated from this whirling mass of physical and
etheric matter, and it is in a state of reality, all other
stages having been passed and forgotten. To return
would be retrogression, and we have no evidence that
thisis Nature's plan. It sounds simple and believable
to those who have never thought out how we obtain
our individual minds and become individual beings.
These come from our parents as already explained.
There is no mystery about it, so the one who believes:
thathe or she is the re—incarnation of some individual
who once lived on earth must explain how this.
separate individual mind took the place of the com--
binedminds of his or her parents at conception. It is
caused by a misunderstandingof thefacts, and sprang
from minds which could conceive the virgin birth, an
old belief with no scientific authoritybehind it. To
me, the re—incarnationof a strong individualised mind
is impossible to imagine, though the weaker un-
developed minds may possibly return to the mass
Mind just as do the minds of animals, but I have
nothing to support even this suggestion. These
views, I may say, receive the support of my infor-
mants in the Etheric World, who say thattheyknow
of no one who has incarnated again on earth. They
have with them those who lived on earth thousands
of years ago, and those not with them have gone on
to higher planes.
It is reasonable to imagine the Universe as a
whole, as one great developing thought or a series
of myriad small thoughts connected into one har-
276 The Rock of Truth.
monious whole. As we know by experience that
developingthoughtnever goes backbut onlychanges,
so we must assume that thought is continually
evolving to higher heights of expression. There
seems no end to Mind so there is no end to thought,
and no end to life. What we know is occurring in
this world of ours we can assume is likewise occurring
in different degrees in the other worlds in the
Universe.
To try to explain the Universe from a physical
‘standpoint, therefore, becomes obviously ridiculous.
To us some day the physical will be the least impor-
tant thingin our lives, and if this is to be so, why try
to explain the Universe from a physicalpoint of view,
as some of our noted scientists are still trying to do?
When theyrealise thatthe Universe is Mind and that
the physical is but an expression of this mind, our
science will be revolutionised, our healing will be
revolutionised, and our social conditions will be re-
volutionised. We shall come to realise thatour time
on earth is for the purpose of developing creative
thought, and so the development of mind and char-
acter will be the object before every intelligent
individual.
“
Two men looked out through prison bars-
One saw ‘mud, the other stars.”
Could two lines better express the power of Mind
over our surroundings? As it is here, so will it be
hereafter. Some minds are only sufficiently de-
veloped to see mud, but others to comprehend some-
thing of the majesty of the Universe.
CHAPTER XI.
WEIGHED IN THE BALANCE.
ABOUT 2,500 years ago a Chaldean King gave a
great feast to a thousand of his lords, so we are told
in an ancient record. This king, Belshazzar by
name, commanded that the golden and silver vessels,
taken from the temple at Jerusalem, be brought and
used at the feast. In the same hour came thefingers
of a man’s hand and wrote on the wall, much to the-
discomfiture of the king, his princes, his wives, and.
his concubines. Theysaw the writingbut theycould.
not understand its meaning, so Daniel was called that.
he might interpret it, which he did.
And this is the writing that was written :—
MENE MENE TEKEL UPHARSIN, which he translated’
into meaning :
“God has numbered thy kingdom and finished
it. Thou are weighed in the balance and found
wanting. Thy kingdom is divided and given to the
Medes and Persians.”
That night the king was slain and Darius the
Median took his kingdom. This is an old, old story,
but its lesson is as evident to—day as it was of yore.
Nature never stands still. Progress is the law of
Nature. Kingdoms and beliefs come and go,
and nothing remains permanent in the Universe.
“
Change and decay in all around ”
is as true to-day
as it will be to-morrow and as it was yesterday.
An individual or a community of individuals, be
they a nation or a church, if they do not progress,
are bound by immutable law to perish. Each
278 The Rock of Truth.
one of us, each community, is constantly being
weighed in Nature’s balance, and our record taken.
If we are found wanting, our Kingdom is finished.
Life pursuing life and in turn pursued by life, the
fittest only surviving. Thus we are to-day what we
.are. This mental urge has raised the humble pro-
toplasm and made of it thinkingmen and women.
Those who say that “
the religion of my father
is good enough for me
”
will be found wanting when
each individual mind takes account of its past and
weighs up all the opportunities missed. It is
so much easier just to accept and not to think for
onese1f—just to slide down life’s stream, to be a
drifter and not a thinker. Some day, either here or
/
hereafter, a rock will be struck, and the drifter will
have to take stock of his surroundings and decide if
drifting is to be forever his means of navigation, or
if he is to take command of himself, use his reason
as his compass, and learn to steer for himself. Other-
wise when he reaches the sea he will be either a
helpless piece of wreckage, tossed to and fro with
nothingto guide him, or on the other hand a capable
navigator able and willing to use the gift of reason
implanted in each one of us.
Humanity is made up of drifters and thinkers,
the drifters scoffing at the thinkers and the thinkers
pitying the drifters. If there were no drifters and
only thinkers in this country, this book would never
have been written. Neither would it have been
Written if there had been no thinkers. The informa-
tion given within these pages has not been assembled
by a drifter, but by a thinker. History will repeat
itself, and theconclusionshere reachedwillbecriticised
ll/eiglzedin the Balance. 279
and derided by the drifters, who have never given
an hour’s thought to any of the subjects discussed.
From the time I was at the University I have
given much thought and time to the study of Com-
parative Religion, to theorigin of the Biblicalrecords,
and the origin of Christianity, and for over thirty
years I have been interested in this subject. I have
been familiar all these years with the questions
with which it deals, and until I became a Spiritualist
I was, as the result of my investigations, an agnostic,
one who believed that nothing could be known of
God, or the after life, by our limited powers of com-
prehension. Those Were questions I could not solve.
I did not deny their importance, but left them aside
till my knowledge increased.
I feel no bitternesstowards any Church, although
when I was younger my patiencewas severelytested.
So far as I personally am concerned, it does not
matter what the Church preaches or what the people
believe; in thesedays everyone tolerates theopinions
of others and recognises the right of each individual
to think for himself.
Why, therefore, should I trouble to Write a
book? Certainly it is not for profit. How can one
explain the desire to share with others the know-
ledge possessed by a few but not by the majority?
Why have some of us this desire to pass on the
knowledge, knowing that criticism will follow and
nothing material will ever be gained? Why did
Bruno not recant and tell the Church and the priests
of his time that he would believe anything if they
would only leave him alone? Personally I would
have done that rather than be tortured. I would
280 The Rock of Truth.
have told them that rather than suffer torture and
misery I would be silent for ever and they could
remain ignorant if they wanted to; but I am not
the stuff thatmartyrs are made of. At least, I think
so now ; but had I lived in those days of ignorance
my attitude might have been different. The minds
of our ancestors were different from ours. There
was little toleration on either side. Intolerance bred
intolerance. They were not so refined in mind in
those days, otherwise they could not have inflicted
pain as they did, and they could not have endured
pain as they did. Their minds were coarser and
likewise their feelings.
However, in this land of the free, everyone is
at libertyto express his honest and dishonest thoughts,
and as I shall not be burned by the Church I have
taken the trouble to pass on what I honestly believe
is the truth. It is because I see indifference on the
one hand through the folly of the Church, and ig-
norance on the other through the people accepting
the Church's teaching,that I feel compelledto put my
thoughtsonce more on paper. Besides that,it is only
right that the general public should know the truth
about Christianity and Spiritualism. The clergy
frequently scoff at and ridicule Spiritualism and
Spiritualists ; but this book will show thattheyshould
put their own house in‘order before interfering with
honest, intelligent people, in the unmannerly way
they do. Their folly, I trust, I have made clear to
everyone.
It is because the indifferent are losing so
much, and the ignorant are losing so much, that
I trust this book will still further open the minds of
Weighed in the Balance. 281
those who are coming to believe that there is truth-
in Spiritualism, but cannot accept it becauseit is con-
trary to the Church’s teachingor the Bible. To help-
them I have told them what I believeto be the truth.
about all three, and if they still prefer to cling to a
decaying institution or an ancient book and ignore
the testimony of men and women of repute of the
present day, on the facts relating to survival, then
no more can be done.
Let me give the latest opinion of the Church
as to its belief in Survival after death. This is con-
tained in the January 1933 issue of Life and Work,
the official publication of the Church of Scotland,
in an article by the Very Reverend Professor W. P.
Paterson, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity at
Edinburgh University, Whose opinion carries great
weight in the Protestant Church. In this article he
criticises Dr. Maclean’s book Death Cannot Sever,
and while not denying some of the claims of Spiritua-
lism, advises Christians to keep to what he calls the
"
Christian certainties.” Let me quote from this
article of nearly four pages the only reason he can
give for Christians believingin Survival :—
“
The fundamental Christian certainty is that we
shall survive death. This has been believed
from of old, and many arguments were given in
support of it, but the event which gave our race
confidence truly to believe it was the rising of’
Christ from the dead.”
This is a good example of clerical logic. He
gives two reasons, the first being because our ances-
tors have believedin survival. So have all races and
creeds. If this is an argument We should believe
that the earth is flat and that diseases are caused by
‘282 The Rock of Truth.
devils. ‘According to Dr. Paterson, somethingthat
has been believedin of old is a certainty.
The second reason given is the rising of Christ
from the dead, but the Church has always insisted
that this was a miracle, and if it was it is illogical
to say that because a miracle occurred 1,900 years
ago, we survive death. Moreover, he does not
«explain the connection between what he calls the
second member of the Trinity overcoming death,
which power is surely an attribute of God, and a
‘humble member of the human family likewise sur-
viving death. God having done so, according to
Christian teaching, is certainly no argument that
:humanity will do likewise. Besides this, Dr. Pater-
son knows, just as other intelligent people know, that
rthe so-called evidence of Christ’s resurrection is based
on nothingbut doubtful tradition, a very flimsy basis,
and as the story was copied from earlier religions,
thereis no basis whatever for thebeliefin thephysical
resurrection as reported in the gospels. It was the
physical body of Jesus, we are told in the gospels,
thatrose from thegrave reanimated, and after a ‘short
time on earth ascended into Heaven. Whatever
has this miraculous event to do with our own death
and survival? Dr. Paterson is on surer grounds
‘when he concludes his article as follows :—
“
Revelation was restricted in scope, and we have
been left in ignorance of many things that we
should have expected to know and thatwe desire
to know.”
When, however, Spiritualists tell of their ex-
-periences, and_ how they are certain that they have
been in communication with those who lived on earth
but have died, their testimony is ignored by the in-
T/Veighed in the Balance. 283
:stitution to which Dr. Paterson belongs, and which
he admits is in ignorance of many thingsits adherents
desire to know. Instead of accepting our trust-
worthyevidence, it puts forward as a
“
certainty ”
of
survival a non—historical event, which it says occurred
1,900 years ago, and which has no relation to the
individual, as it occurred, so it asserts, to God.
Why this ignoring and denouncing of the
claims of Spiritualism on the one hand, and on
the other, this doping of the people with false-
hood, combined now with an admission of ignor-
ance? Is it not that the clergy cannot now ignore
.the fact that the people are finding out the truth
for themselves, but are still rigidly jealous of their
rights? Since the adoption of Christianity as the
State religion of Rome, Christian clergy have been
looked on as holding a privilegedposition, beingcon-
sidered as endowed witha special authorityfrom God
to interpret what they claim as his message to
"humanity. They will not relinquish this privileged
position without a struggle, and the comfort Spirit-
-ualism brings is a secondary matter to them when
their own prestige, and that of their organisation, is
concerned. ,
Dr. Paterson’s ignorance of the after-life agrees
with what a high dignitary of the Church of England
-said to me a few months ago :—
“
We do not know whether we survive death or
not, and we have no means of knowing. Per-
sonally I do not believe that we do, but if you
could prove it to me, I should be for ever grate-
ful to you.”
This man was honest to me. He is the natural
product of the institution to which he belongs, which
284: The Rock of Truth.
never has believedin investigation, but only in faith,
which so often fails, as those who rely on this easiest
of all methods never give thought to the necessity
for evidence on which real belief rests. He did not
repeat to me worn-out phrases which mean nothing
to the thinkingman and woman. He told the truth
as he understood it, and did not make claims for his.
religion which have no basis in fact. So long, how-
ever, as the public will accept what is told them by
those Whose interest it is to keep alive an ancient
superstition, then so long will this deluding of the-
people continue. The way the public accept every-
thingthat takes placeand is said in Church is pitiful.
The Christian funeral service should revolt the reason
of every thinkingindividual, and yet it is conducted
hundreds of times, day’after day, withnever a protest.
Recently I attended a funeral service at one of
our parish churches. The man who had passed on
was rich, so therewere four parsons to bury his body.
The service was a long one. If he had been poor’
it would have beenshort, and one parson would have
been sufficient. However, their combined efforts
consigned the “
soul to rest till the great resurrection
day,” when “
through the mediation of Jesus Christ
he would be accounted worthy to live forever with
the blessed.” The various orthodox phrases were
repeated from which thefollowingextracts are taken :
“
Only through Jesus Christ shall he see life eternal.”
“We leave him in God’s hands till the great resurrection.
day, when body and soul will be reunited.”
“
He that believethin me though he were dead yet shall he
live, and whosoever believeth in me shall never die.”'
“
For since by man came death, by man also came the resur--
rection of the dead.”
Weighed in the Balance. 285
“‘
For as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive.”
“
We shall not sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment,
in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the
trumpet shall sound and the dead shall be raised incor-
ruptible, and we shall all be changed.”
“‘
The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the
law.”
“
O Lord most mighty, O holy and most merciful Saviour,
deliver us not into the bitter pains of eternal death.”
“
Spare us, Lord most holy, O God most mighty, O holy and
merciful Saviour, the most worthy judge eternal, sufier
us not at our last hour for any pains of death to fall
from thee.”
“
In the sure and certain hope of the Resurrection to eternal
life through our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change
our vile body, that it may be like unto His glorious
body according to the mighty working whereby He is
able to subdue all things to Himself.”
“‘
They rest from their labours.”
“Lord have mercy upon us, Christ have mercy upon us,
Lord have mercy upon us.”
“
That we with all those that are departed in the true faith
of Thy holy name may have our perfect consummation
and bliss.”
“‘
O merciful God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who
is the resurrection of life, in whom whosoever believeth
shall live though he die, and whosoever liveth and be-
lieveth in Him shall not die eternally.”
““
For them that sleep in Him.”
“That we may rest in Him.”
“‘
And that at the general resurrection in the last day we
may be found acceptable in Thy sight, and receive the
blessing which Thy well beloved Son shall then pro-
nounce to all that love and fear Thee saying, Come, ye
blessed children of My Father, receive the kingdom pre-
pared for you from the beginning of the world.”
“‘
Grant this, we beseech thee O merciful Father, through
jesiis Christ our Mediator and Redeemer.”
‘All this is contrary to What Spiritualists know to be
286 The Rock of Truth.
true, and the Church has not a scrap of evidence to
support any of these extraordinary statements.
The Words “
Jesus Christ,” or
“
through
Jesus Christ,” were repeated twenty-nine times at
this service. God was asked not to lead us into
temptation, which is something we should attribute
to the Devil, and not to Infinite Wisdom. God was
also told many things he was to do and not to do.
The following are extracts taken from the hymns
sung I--‘
“
Day of wrath! 0 day of mourning! ”
“
When our final doom is near.”
“
Leave We now thy servant sleeping.”
“
He who died for their release.”
“
Leaving him to sleep in trust
Till the Resurrection day.”
“
On the Resurrection morning
Soul and body meet again.”
“
Here awhile they must be parted
And the flesh its sabbath keep.”
“
For a while the tired body
Lies, its feet towards the mom.”
All this again is quite contrary to what Spiritualists
know to be true. Christianity looks on death as a
curse which was removed, for believing Christians
only, by Christ’s death. Spiritualists say this is an
ancient superstition having no relation to present-day
thought. Deathis not a curse but a blessing, a step
further on in our life of progress towards some far-off
goal. It is but a change of appreciation and comes
to all for our good. The belief in Christ does not
affect our destination in the least, and for Christians
to go on concurring in these antiquated opinions
shows mental indolence and a low conception of
the Almighty, the giver to all mankind of a natural
Weighed in the Balance. 287'
deathas of a natural birth. This is twentiethcentury
Christianity. The Protestant Church, like the Roman-
Catholic,has not varied a jot in its fundamentalbeliefs
since 325 A.D., when its creeds were manufactured‘
by an assembly of ignorant men presided over by
Constantine, a murderer.* V
Moreover, it never Willi
make any advance tillthe people cease to accept what
it offers them as the truth, and thinkfor themselves.
This entire funeral service is a travesty of the
truth. What the Church believes was St. Paul's
opinion is -always given at length, but no mention is.
made of the great fact of survival contained in
thousands of Spiritualist books and records written
during the past eighty years by men and women of
our own time, some of Whom were men and Women-
of eminence. These testify to the return of the de-
parted and to their being able to communicate with
us. This testimony is so overwhelming in its power
that it should compel the attention of any who have
any regard for facts. The factsit presents are among
thebest attested of thosewhich constitute our present*
day knowledge.
Let it be stated once more without any equivo-
=)€Those who doubt this statement have only to read What it means to
be a Christian, just published by Dr. Headlam, the present Bishop»
of Gloucester, to find all the old superstitions reiterated with
emphasis. Not a particle of evidence is given in support of the
tremendous assertions he makes, such as “Jesus was God,"
“
Jesus was truly God," and “
Jesus was perfect God.” If Jesus»
was God it follows that God, the creator of the seemingly infinite
Universe, was Jesus. This degrading of the Infinite to the level
of Humanity is blasphemy, and moreover the past tense should’
not be applied to Infinite Intelligence. The Infinite must always-
be, but never was. According to present-day Christianity God is«
therefore Jesus, just as Jesus was God to the ignorant framers
of the various Christian creeds. Christian people unfortunately
use words so loosely and seldom think what they mean. Dr.
Headlam admits the unreliabilityof the gospel narratives and relies
on Church tradition and the creeds to support his assertions.
‘288 The Rock of Truth.
cation that those the Church calls “dead” come
back and say theyare very much alive and active, and
further that, in their world, no one believes that any
of them will come back to take up their old bodies,
-even if they could find them. They also testify that
Jesus Christ has nothing to do with the question of
life and death, and they know nothing about the
“
Mediation of Our Saviour Jesus Christ.”
In answer to this testimony, Christians say it is
Devils who come back to beguileus and delude us ;
‘but, as I have shown, Christians have nothingwhat-
ever wherewith to support their beliefs. These are
unscientific and unhistorical, and Christians are
‘too ignorant, too stupid, or too lazy to change with
the changing times. So long as the Church con-
tinues to propound and preach flagrant lies about
those who pass on, it deserves the contempt of all
intelligent and honest people. I am sure there must
be many enlightened parsons who will welcome the
truth beingtold, thoughtheymay fear to tell it them-
selves.
What a difference between the service just
referred to and the service at the burial of the body
of a Spiritualist 1 There it is all brightness—know-
ledge instead of hope, praise that the etheric
body is liberated into a fuller life. Clairvoyants
present see many friends on the other side who have
come back, often bringing with them the one whose
physical body is being buried. The knowledge of
what death reallyis, is acceptedas a matter of course,
and the expectation is expressed that the departed
will be back again soon through some Medium to
report his safe arrival on the further shore. There
Weighed in the Balance. 289
is no mourning, no black,as all is understood. Death
is known to be but a step round a bend in the road
of life, so there are no vain repetitions from ancient
documents which mean nothing, and which are of
only slight comfort to the ignorant, and of none to
the intelligent.
Such is a Spiritualist’s funeral. Spiritualists
are guided by those who have made the change,
Christians by ignorant.speculation thousands of years
old. Which of the two affords the greater comfort,
the true or the false? I shall leave it for each reader’
to judge. While Christians have been drifting,
Spiritualists have been thinking.
The following is one of the most vivid pen
pictures of what really happens at death and of
humanity’s failure to grasp its true meaning. Who
wrote it I know not, but I give it as I found it :—
As the faint dawn crept upwards, grey and dim,
He saw her move across the past to him—
Her eyes as they had looked in long-gone years,
Tender with love, and soft with thoughts of tears,
Her hands, outstretched as if in wonderment,
Nestled in his, and rested there, content.
“
Dear wife,” he whispered, “
what glad dream is this?
I feel your clasp——your long remembered kiss
Touches my lips, as when you used to creep
-Into my heart; and yet, this is not sleep-
Is it some vision, that with night will fly? ”
“‘
Nay, dear,” she answered; “it is really I.”
"‘
Dear heart, it is you I know,
But I knew not the dead could meet us so.
Bodied as we are,—-see, how like we stand!”
“
Like,” she replied, “in form, and face, and hand.”
Silent awhile, he held her to his breast,
As if afraid to try the further test——
T
290 The Rock of Truth.
Then speaking quickly, “
Must you go away?”
“
Husband,” she murmured, “
neither night nor day!”
Close to her then she drew his head,
Trembling, “I do not understand,” he said.
“I thought the spirit world was far apart . . .
$9
“Nay,” she replied, “it is not now, dear heart!
Quick, hold fast my hand, lean on me . . . so .
Cling to me, dear, ’tis but a step to go! ”
The white-faced watchers rose beside the bed;
“
Shut out the day,” they sighed, “
our friend is dead.”
Such is a description in poetic Words of what is hap-
pening thousands of times every day. Is it not time
that everyone should wake up and try to grasp the
true meaning of death so that it can be looked upon
as a friend and not as an enemy? Only Spiritualists
can teach the lesson. Only Spiritualism can save
the world from blank materialism.
Only Spiritualism will unite mankind in one
religion, a religion thatcan be accepted by the Hindu
or the Mohammedan, by the Buddhistand the Chris-
tian. Spiritualism will make the world one great
family,will make all men brothers, will make all men
free. Some day all such labels as Christian, Moslem,
Hindu and Buddhist will disappear, and then there
will be no need for the label Spiritualist, as all will
merge into one, the great religion of humanity. On
the platforms at my meetings throughoutthe country
I have had supporting me men and women of all
creeds and sects, namely Mohammedans, Hindus,
Jews, and all the sects of Christianity, who, now that
they know the truth, realise the futilityof the creeds
and dogmas of the religions into which they were
born. Only throughSpiritualismwill war cease, and
Weighed in the Balance. 291
only through Spiritualism shall we reach a new and’
juster social system.
Spiritualists do not believe in sending mission-
aries to try to convert those belongingto the leading
eastern religions. It is futile to replace one
superstition by another, and yet millions of money
have been, and still are, spent in trying to convert
the “heathen Chinese,” the “heathen Buddhists,"
and others whose ancestors all had a part in laying
the foundations of Christianity. This is like taking
coals to Newcastle ! Spiritualismwill succeed, how-
ever, when other efforts have failed, as its principles
lie at the back of all religions.
Meantime Spiritualist organisations grow and
flourish. In every large city there are many Spirit-
ualist Churches, and at least one in the smallertowns,
where those who wish to get into touch with their
friends and relatives on the other side should go, as
connected with them are the reliable Mediums of the
district. These Churches hold services every Sun-
day and lectures and discussion classes during the
week. The Sunday Schools, which go under the
name of Lyceums, are well—organised and cared for.
These Churches advertise their meetings in the
weekly Spiritualist papers already referred to. In
those papers will also be found advertised those
organisations which make a special point of helping
the enquirer. They are becoming large and in-
fluential, and for a small annual subscription the sub-
scriber has the privilege of attending their lectures
without further charge, enjoys the use of the library,
and can have sittings with the best Mediums at the
minimum of expense. To help the enquirer I give
292 The Rock of Truth.
the names and addresses of the leading institutions in
this country.
Marylebone Spiritualist Association,
Marylebone House, 42 Russell Square, London, W.C.1.
London Spiritualist Alliance,
16 Queensberry Place, Kensington, London, S.VV.7.
British College of Psychic Science,
15 Queensgate, London, S.W.7.
W. T. Stead Library and Bureau,
5 Smith Square, Westminster, London, S.W.1.
The Britten Memorial,
64A Bridge Street, Deansgate, Manchester.
‘The Edinburgh Psychic College and Library,
30 Herriot Row, Edinburgh.
A new society has recently been formed for the
purpose of helping to educate the clergy in all matters
pertaining to Spiritualism. Several progressive par-
sons are behindthis, as it was thoughtthatthe clergy
should have a society all to themselves, owing to the
fact that they dislike being seen with laymen at
séances, lectures, etc. This new society is called the
Psychic Evidence Society, and further particulars of
it can be obtained from the Stead Bureau whose ad-
dress has just been given. The intelligent clergy see
that they have to become as little children and learn
anew just as we all have done. Naturally they are
anxious to make going to school again as little con-
spicuous as possible, seeing that they are the ones
who should have been leading the world on the
-subject, and not the Spiritualists.
I can only brieflyrefer to one-aspect of Spirit-
ualism which is of growing importance, namely, that
of Psychic Healing, throughhealing Mediums. This
Weighed in the Balance. 293
is not what is termed faith healing, as faith no more
enters into it than it does when We consult and are
treated by medical science.
The patient attends the centre Where the healing
Medium works in trance, and with the help of assis-
tants with psychic power, but not in trance, healing
takes place through the touch and massage by the
Medium or the assistants. The diagnosis of the
disease is remarkable for its accuracy. In serious
cases the patient has been put to sleep by the Etheric
Doctor working through the Medium, and thus no-
pain is felt. Thousands are being cured by means
of psychic rays working on the Etheric Body of the
patient, as it is through the Etheric that the cure of
the Physical body is effected.
One of the best healing Mediums in this country
at the present time is F.
294 The Rock of Truth.
healing institutions in the country. Mrs. Estelle
Roberts also works there as a healing Medium.*
All in need of help of this kind should apply to
any of the institutions already named, as they have
healing Mediums under their direction, or to their
local Spiritualist Church which will know of the
nearest healing Medium. I have made special
mention of the work of Mr. Jones as I have made a
personal study of his methods and have followed up
many of his cases.
One word of caution. Psychichealing is not yet
-sufficiently advanced, owing to lack of the necessary
-development in mediumship, to make it wise to em-
ploy it for life-and—deathcases. Still thereare many
ailments for which it is well worth trying Psychic
healing. In other cases, where earth doctors can do
nothingfurther, thismethodshould be tried. I know
-of more than one cure having been effected in cases
which earth doctors have given up as hopeless. Take
your doctor’s opinion if he is broadminded, as many
doctors believe in Psychic healing and send patients
to healing Mediums. I personally know a dozen
doctors who do so, and their number is increasing.
Psychichealingis stillin its infancy,but now that
Mediums are safe, it is rapidly developing, and I
=l(< Mrs. Estelle Roberts is not only a remarkable healing Medium but
the world’s greatest clairvoyante. Besides this she is one of the
best direct voice Mediums in this country. Her séances, given
once a fortnight, free of charge, to a group of leading Spirit-
ualists and their friends, are reported regularly in Psychic News
by the editor, Maurice Barbanell, who is always present. along
with a stenographer, who takes careful notes of everything said.
Mr. Barbanell has just published a book entitled The Trumpet
shall Sound, giving a record of a series of these séances, and it
should be read by all who desire conviction that voice communica-
tion has been definitely established between the two worlds. I,
personally,can vouch for the honesty and accuracyof all concerned.
Weighed in the Balance. 295
believe will become one of the greatest blessings to
mankind in the years to come. From what I am
told by Etheric Doctors I am hopeful that, by means
of a ray with which they are experimenting, a cure
for cancer willbe discovered. The various rays used
are quite perceptibleby theassistants, who experience
a sharp pain if their hands intercept them. Iudging
from cases that have come to my notice, Psychic
surgery is just in its infancy. In time I believeisur-
gical operations will not be impossible by Etheric
doctors, who willdematerialisethepart to be removed
and thus no cutting will be necessary. This forecast
is no dream on my part, as I have facts to go on
which indicate the possibilityof such developments.
Is it to be wondered at that I should feel it a matter
of the greatest importance that we do everything
possible to develop mediumshipin every way, seeing
how immensely humanity will benefit as a result?
Mediums are our most precious possessions; they
should be state-protected, state-aided and state-
developed, until the ecclesiastical and medical pro-
fessions come to realise that it is their duty to look
after them as trustees for the nation. In time there
will be a Chair of Psychic Science at both Oxford
and Cambridge Universities, and thus the greatest
of all the sciences will receive its proper recognition,
and receive the attention it deserves from trained
investigators.
The study of the power of the Mind over the
body is another subject which will get more attention
as the years go on. As yet healing by this method
is little understood, but no one can read Mr. Alexan-
der Erskine’s testimony given in his book, A Hypno-
296 The Rock of Truth.
tist’s Case Book, without realising to what an extent
the mind dominates the body.
Spiritualists do not pretend to have solved all the
problems of mankind. We do not thinkthat we can
comprehend the Universe. We do not believe that
we have reached thebottom of the well of knowledge,
but we do most emphaticallybelievethatSpiritualism,
combined with Science, will solve many problems
thought to be beyond the wit of man. Spiritualism
is opening up for mankind a grand panorama, and
only as man increases in intelligence will he be able
to grasp its full extent. Spiritualism is founded on
the sure rock of reason and experience, and on this
foundationthe next generationwill build theirreligion,
and thus make this world a place worth living in.
Meantime; we believe it is better to work for the
brotherhood of man and his advancement than to
repeat meaningless creeds. It is better to love our
fellow man than to fear a God created in man’s own
image. It is braver and nobler to think and inves-
tigate for yourself than to let some institution think
for you. We do not expect to accomplish our work
in a few years ; theprevailingopposition is too strong
to enable us to do that, but we do want to do all the
good we can in the holy cause of human progress.
We are not laying the foundations of a new
sect, but of a noble temple in which all humanity
can gather together, having the same knowledge,
animated by the same great ideals, believing
that duty to man is the first principle in all true
religion. We believe that it is more important to
serve our brother man, whom we can help, than to
waste our time trying to placatean imaginarywrathful
Weighed in the Balance. 297
Deity, who expects us to believe the impossible
before we can enter Heaven. We are doing what
we can to hasten the great day when Reason will be
robed, crowned and enthroned, and when those who-
do all the good theycan will be the saints in the truest
and noblest sense. We are doing all we can to relieve
suffering, to comfort those who mourn, and to place
the star of hope in the midnight of despair. This
we consider is true holiness. We pity those who
attribute to the Almighty deeds and words which
would debase a savage, and we look forward to the
day when all who do so will be considered blas-
phemers and not looked up to, honoured, and given
positions of wealthand importance, as theyare to—day
in the Christian Church.
This is the ethical side of the religion of Spirit-
ualism. The old creeds are too narrow ; theyare not
for our world of to—day. The old dogmas lack
breadthand kindness ; theyare too cruel, too savage,
too merciless. We are growing more humane in
spite of them. The many who repeat them would‘
not themselves, if they were God, enforce them.
There is only one acceptable creed, and that
great creed contains all the truths that man has
uttered. There is only one litany needed by man-
kind, and thatcontains all theaspirations,all thenoble
thoughts, all the ecstasies of the soul, all dreams for
nobler life, all hopes, all joy.
The real Church is built on all that man has dis.-
covered, the real edifice is adorned and beautifiedby
all the arts, by all the beautiesof nature ever depicted‘
by colour on canvas. The real choir contains all the
beautifulmusic of theworld, and thetrue worshippers.
298 The Rock of Truth.
_
are all who have made the world a better and a
happier place to live in. Its Priests are the true
interpreters of nature. Its Bible is all the ennobling
literature of the World, and its Mediator betwixtearth
and heaven is that gifted class of people called
Mediums, who can bring heaven to earth and unite
the two worlds in one.
When Christians are intelligent enough to or-
ganise theirworship and theirChurches on theselines,
then will gather in them all the good and true, the
"learned and the simple. All together will hold com-
munication with the great and the good, the true and
the noble who have passed on, and who now come
back willingand anxious to help us in our search for
the truth and the real meaning of existence.
This is what Spiritualism is working for, and
as the knowledge of it increases as the number
of Mediums increases, so will its principles become
more and more widely accepted and the new
religion grow and bear more fruit. But never will
Spiritualists hand over their precious knowledge to
the orthodox Churches to be compressed into creeds
and dogmas, or to be embellished by ritual, pomp
and circumstance. The Church which should have
been the protector of those gifted persons, our
Mediums, has so long persecuted and ill-treatedthem,
that it cannot now be trusted with their care and
protection. The Church which has mistaken the
blundering guesses of ignorant men for the wisdom
of Infinite Intelligence must purge itself thoroughly
of its folly before it will be trusted with the teaching
of Spiritualism.
The Christian Church ‘has been weighed too
Weighed in the Balance. 299
often in the balance and found wanting, the ecclesias-
tical mind is too narrow, too closely related to that
-of the theologians of the past, for Spiritualists to
wish to see a fusion of Spiritualism with Christianity.
The time will come when the Christian Church will
absorb all the teachings of Spiritualism and agree to
‘bury and forget its creeds, its dogmas, its holy docu-
ments and holy relics, but it is not yet. Spiritualism
has no need of a fusion of the past with the present.
It need not go back to the days of ignorance for its
"beliefs. It is a religion based on the facts of to—day.
Meantime we work and wait, we watch the flow
and ebb of life and death. We contemplate with
_-greater knowledge what those who are ignorant call
"the mystery of Death. Ignorance still holds the
stage, and players act their part and disappear. The
orthodox and the stupid play their part and disappear
without the slightest knowledgeof the significanceof
‘their part or the purpose of life’s drama. The scene
shifts, some new actors come, and disappear. The
scene shifts again. To them all is mystery, mystery
everywhere. They try to explain and the explana-
tion of one mystery contradicts another. To them,
behind each veil is just another. Life is an enigma.
The Church claims it has had a revelation from In-
finite lntelligence, and yet this revelation tells us
nothing. Everything of value in life man has dis-
«covered for himself. This revelation has never
-explained the wonder of growth, production and
decay, the reason for our existence, or our destiny.
All things are of equal wonder. One drop of
water is as full of wonder as all the oceans, one speck
«of dust as all the worlds, one butterfly with painted
300 The Rock of Truth.
wings as all the thingsthat fly,one egg as wonderful
as the thinkingbreathingcreature that emerges from-
its shell. The smallest seed is as wonderful as a
mighty oak, a stone as all the whirling stars. If
we now know something more of our wondrous.
Universe thanthose who lived beforeus,‘ it is because
some have thought and reasoned for themselves and"
have not been content to rely on so-called holyrecords.
as their guide.
An institution relying solely on such sources as
theseneed not look for help to Spiritualists, who have
suffered too long from the abuse of the ignorant to
wish to amalgamate with them. Spiritualists will
work and wait till the Church discards all the old
garments of ignorance. Till it does so Spiritualists
will uphold the torch of truth alone. They know the
strength of their position and the weakness of that of
their opponents. They know that their religion is.
'
built on the rock of truth, on experience, on reason,
and they are content to wait till the edifice built on
sand crumbles and disappears. It is only a matter
of time. Truthalways wins through in the end.
Meantime, we work for thegreat day when man-
kind will be mentally free, and when the truth and?
the truth only will be preached and believed.
CHAPTER XII.
LIFE’S CERTAINTIES.
AMID the confusion of beliefs in this age of the decay
of faith, what then have we to rely on? So much
that we were taught as certainties we find in these
days of greater knowledge must be discarded as
error. What now remains?
Everythingthere is of value remains. It is only
the chafi that we must throw away. All the aspira-
tions of the soul can now be satisfied, not by faith
and hope, but by knowledge. We have seen how
our ancestors, realising that here on earth both life
and death are equal kings, took from natural pheno-
mena their beliefs, arguing that as the sun sets to
rise again, and as vegetation dies to come again to
life, so would humanity likewise follow the course of
‘nature, and that death was but the threshold of '
another life.
Around thisuniversal instinctive beliefthatdeath
is not the end of life, there developed in many crude
and often cruel ways a ritual which, in course of time,
became a religion. From observing the forces of
nature our ancestors argued that there was a force,
an intelligence, in nature outside themselves, and so
in a simple way theredeveloped thebeliefthatvarious
separate intelligences governed the world. Their
gods thenbecamelike men, only stronger and braver,
but just as cruel as their creators. To them were
given attributes drawn from natural phenomena.
Later still were given to outstanding men after their
death the attributes of the gods, and thus there was
302 The Robk of Truth.
wound round their lives the fables and myths told
about the gods.
So we come to the present time, when still by
far the majority believethe truth of these stories told
of these god-men. Some, however, have found by
research the basis of the world's beliefs, and so have
come to realise that what so many believe in as
religious certainties are but ancient fables spun to»
please a childish World. Most people are still the
slaves of habit, the followers of custom, believers
only in the wisdom of the past. Custom is like a
prison locked and barred by those of long ago, the
keys of which have followed them to their graves.
Old beliefs thus die slowly and very few can see the
light. The multitude still kneels at the shrine of
antiquity and worships what it believesare the sacred
products of the past.
The educated, the thoughtful, the really intelli-
gent person now thinks for himself, pities the
mistakes and follies of the people, and tries to en-
lighten their minds and conscience by pointing to the
future and not to the past. The thinkingman and
woman are the ones who help to carry forward the
light of truth, and thusbringnearer thegladday when
the world will be filled with intellectual light.
With all the fabled treasure of the past gone
beyond belief, what have we still? Are we now
without a lamp for our feet and a light for our path?
'Assuredly no, for have we not the knowledge now,
’
instead of the hope which caused our ancestors to
weave legend and myth, and develop ritual, much of
which has come down to us in the garb of sacred
and holy beliefs and rites?
What then are our certainties? Firstly, so far
Life’s Certainties. 303
as the great mysteriesof life and deathare concerned,.
knowledge has taken the place of faith and hope.
V\/ith knowledge fades away all creeds and cere-
monials. During the past hundred years the
mystery which has kept mankindin fear and bondage,
the mystery which has kept and still keeps in being
a mighty organisation throughoutthe World has been
explained and unravelled. The Sphinx ‘has spoken.
From over the seemingly wide unending sea have
come floating on its waves, twigs and branches, to-
show that life exists beyond the horizon, and that
the seemingly cruel sea is just a bridge, a span from
life to life. Where the dead have gone reason now
can go, and from the further shore the revelation
has come. No need to feel now that life is but a
narrow vale betwixttwo bleak eternities. No longer
need we strive in vain to look beyond the heights,
nor cry aloud and hear only the echo of our wailing
cry. N0 longer need we say that from the
lips of the unreplying dead there comes no word to
calm our fears.
'
Life we now know is a greater, a grander, and
a nobler thing than ever our forefathers imagined.
Life we now know is a great privilege. The creative
Intelligence that made it possible has wisely planned
our future, and it is the duty of each one of us to
live worthy of its thought and design. Nothing in
nature is lost, and as we think here so shall we be
hereafter. Our thoughts will be with us eternally
to be our judge. As our thoughtsare but ourselves,
we shall judge ourselves justly, and the place we
reach will be the place for which we have fitted our-
selves here.
The invisible Universe which will be our eternal
304 The Rock of Truth.
home is beyond imagination, as there to think is to
receive ; as we thinkso we are. We must therefore
give serious thoughtto our future, as we are building
here what will be our future home. We have a
great future planned out for us, but here with our
limited physical senses we can barely imagine the
wonderful civilisation which we shall join some day,
to be either its good or its bad citizens, to be one
.of thehonoured and respected, or one of thedegraded,
of that vast community living unsensed by us around
this earth of ours.
All wish for happiness beyond this life. Im-
mortality is a word that hope has whispered through-
out the ages. In the democracy of death the rag
of wretchedness and the purple robe lose distinction
and only character counts. Our thoughts there con-
dition our environmentin a way theycannot do here.
There is therefore nothing wiser, nothing grander
thanfor each one of us to sow seeds of noble thoughts
.and virtuous deeds, to endeavour in every possible
way to help to liberate the minds of our fellow men.
3A noble thought, just as a noble life, enriches all the
World and hastens the harvest of universal good. It
climbs the heights and leaves all superstitions far
below. Those who have worked for the advance-
ment of mankind are the leaders of the human race,
and had it not been for such outstanding men and
women of the past, who have led humanity upwards,
we never should have risen beyond the beasts.
In every land and every clime, in every age,
there have been the orthodox, the stupid, and the
backward on the one hand, and on the other the
thinker, the investigator, and the inventor. The
Li]‘e’s Certainties. 305
former have alwaystried to frustrate thelatter ; there
has been a continual warfare between them, and
fortunately for humanity the thinker in the end has
always won. The battle still continues between the
two, and the thinkers are now fighting the greatest
battle of all, which when Won will liberate mankind
from the fear of death, and make clear to all what
has always been a mystery.
When our day here is over, nature returns the
worn-out body to earth, and releases the psychic
structure which, during earth-life, has been limited
-by our physical limitations. We cannot hear the
words of welcome which greet the released individual,
but we know that they are said. We cannot follow
yet those who leave us, but We can leave them in
the tender care of the friends who have gathered to
give them welcome. What causes sorrow here gives
joy and gladness there.
Nothingis more touching than theideathof the
young and thestrong, but when we realise thatto them
it is not loss but gain, we need not sorrow unduly.
Deathcomes, however, to theagedlike a benediction.
When the duties of life have been nobly done, when
the sun touches the horizon, when memory becomes
dim, nature bends and smiles and relieves the weary
traveller of his burden. The day has been long, the
road weary, and the tired Wayfarer lies down to'rest,
to reawaken refreshed and gladdened by the change
called death.
On making this change, a world beyond
imagination for its delights will be the home of all
who have lived here aright. The flowers, the
colouring, the scenery, the beauties, the absence of
U
306 The Rock of Truth.
care, of pain, and of fatigue, will at once become
apparent, and none Will ever wish to return to live
again on earth.
All physicaldeformities will becomeright, as the
physical was the cause, and Mind there controls the
etheric body in a way it cannot control the physical.
Pain and suffering here are the result of our mind
being out of harmony with its physical vehicle, but
in Etheriathevibrationsof mind and the ethericbody
are more akin. Consequently pain and suffering are
almost unknown, as mind by thought can conquer
pain. The next life would benaughtunless we know
and love again those we once loved here, and this
reunion will be an added pleasure, though the grief
at parting from those on earth will last tillthis reunion
is complete. Grief in Etheria, however, is not so
acute as it is with those on earth, as our friends there
can still hear us and see us, and to them it is just a
brief span between the parting and the meeting.
The Divine Intelligence which has planned it all
has decreed that for the present we on earth cannot
appreciate all that life holds out for each. We are
limited for the present to our earth condition, but we
can gather information now from those who have
made the change, and faith and hope have changed
to knowledge. The more we learn the more we
realise the importance of right living and right
thinking,as retribution to the evil is relentless and
sure; but the very thoroughness of it all in time
raises the mind to thoughts of higher things.
Everythingthat man has made or done was first
a mental creation, first pictured in the mind, then
translated into its physical representation. All the
Life's Certainties. 307 i
wondrous creations of mankind were first mental.
creations, produced mentally, and only thus was it
possible for them to take shape. The physical can
be changed primarilyonly by thought, and then by
touch, and so We realise that Mind is behind the
physicalwherever there is change. However, in the
world of finer matter about us, though unsensed,
mind is much more apparent, as there it can change
its surroundings by thought without the necessity of
touch. As we sow here we reap hereafter, because
there we create our surroundings by our thoughts.
Our mind is always recording our deeds and‘
thoughts, and like a moving film they are passing,
some think into oblivion, but this is not so. N0
mental creation is necessarily forgotten, and all our
good and noble thoughts will be our companions for
ever, and so will be our evilthoughtstilltheybecome
obliterated by the good. If evil persists over good
we sink lower and lower till sheer misery will make
us change.
Back of everythingis Mind, which can only find‘
expression for ages to come in lower vibrations than
its own. Out of these it constructs our conditions
just as we have trained it. If we keep to pure and
noble thoughts, and self-denying deeds, face facts.
and accept onlywhat is true, our future habitationwill
be in harmonywithour thoughts,and our companions
will be likewise. Honesty is the oak round which all
the other virtues cling. Without character, without
integrity,thereis onlypoverty, an abyss. We never‘
finish our education, we never cease to learn, though"
some learn folly, and some learn wisdom. Those
who have thought wisely in the past have scattered
308 The Rock of Truth.
the priceless seeds of knowledge, and we are now
reaping the golden grain. Consequently our sur-
roundings here on earth are better and happier than
ever before, as on earth just as in Etheria our
thoughts make our surroundings, but not so easily.
Not so many years ago the investigators, the
thinkers, the unorthodox, were looked upon with
horror, and cruel laws were made against ~them.
Antiquity those thinkers said added nothingto pro-
’bability,the lapse of time could never take the place
of evidence, and dust can never gather fast enough
upon mistakes to make them equal with the truth.
Theybelievedthattheunbrokenand eternal march of
«cause and effect had never been arrested. They
were denounced and traduced, persecuted, tortured
and martyred by the mob which never thinks. After
their deaths the same mob returned to worship at
their graves, and embellished their names as saints
and heroes. ’
In their day theywere told that God never gave
us a mind to question or to doubt and thateverything
we could know of life and death had already been
revealed. Theywere told thatgreat was the mystery
of Godliness ; great was the mystery of the Trinity;
great was the mystery of the Godhead; great was
the mystery of Life and Death and the Hereafter.
~Fortunately all the opposition of a powerful
organisation was unable to prevent the mystery being
explored, and the more it was explored the clearer
did it appear thatwhat had been preachedas a special
revelation from God was no revelation at all, and
that what was thought to be a Divine revelation was
.-nothing but the blundering guesses of superstitious
Life’s Certainties. 309
men. Humanity is only just beginningto appreciate
that this discovery has released it from a mighty
thraldom. Knowledge begins where faith ends, and
faith no longer satisfies the ‘hunger of the intelligent
mind. To those with knpwledgethe warp and woof
of the fabric of the mystery of death has been rent
and through it we find a more beautiful world, a
grander civilisation, than was ever dreamed of by the
seers of old. In this newly discovered country we
find a wondrous race who look on us in pity for our
ignorance, as so many here still rest on crutches,
which they could so easily discard, and walk erect.
In the next state there is no gold, no money,
and all we gain there is mental wealth, but no one
can wish for more, as the mind gives us all we wish
to have. To increase our possessions we must
develop our mind, and this can best be done by
helping others less fortunately placed than ourselves,
as there we cannot live for ourselves alone. Thus
and thus only is our happiness increased, just to the
extent to which we impart happiness to and increase
the knowledge of others. We need not wait ; let us-
learn to do it here and now, and let those who know
the truth tell all theycan. Let those with experience
and knowledge proclaim that there is no death, that.
What seems so is transition, a change of appreciation
only. When this becomes known the happiness of
the world will be increased a hundredfold. Man-
kind will be knit together in the common knowledge-
of a common destiny. The brotherhood of man will
then be understood in its true meaning and war will
be no more.
Let us therefore cease from giving thought
310 The Rock of Truth.
to ancient beliefs, developed when the world was
young, and instead give thought to the development
of our characters, as character alone counts, not
‘belief in creeds. Thus we are commencinghere the
refining process which will lead us to the life in the
higher spheres beyond. Let us try to loose the
shackles of those still bound by creeds and dogmas,
who think that by believingthe impossible they are
pleasing their Creator.
Unfortunatelywe have stillmany of theignorant,
the uneducated and the superstitious amongst us, and
so long as we have these so long shall we have priests
and prelates, who benefitby theirignorance. Just as
oil and water cannot mix, neither can priest-craft and
intelligence. Spiritualists are doing all they can to
-spread thegreat news thatmankind’sgreatest enemy,
Death, is conquered, while the clergy, led by the
Archbishopof York, stand withinthe pulpit’s narrow
‘curve and decry them for their efforts. It is not
desirable, say our religious leaders, for the public to
know. To the leaders, public ignorance of this vital
matter is better than knowledge, as so long as the
mystery lasts the organisation is maintained. It is
not desirable, they say, for man to have his greatest
longing satisfied 5
Just so long as ignorance flourishes will money
be wasted keeping up an expensive organisation for
the set purpose of keeping humanity ignorant. The
ignorant cannot see that it is in the interests of the
priests and clergy to continue keeping them ignorant,
as when knowledge comes their influence ceases.
Let all, therefore, who have the good of humanity at
{heart oppose these purveyors of superstition, help the
I
Life’s Certainties. 311
helpless, put the star of knowledgein the midnight of
despair, and show theignorant thatall who live aright
here have a bright and happy future before them.
We are not exiles here from God, which the
mystery of life and deathmade our ancestors imagine
we were, and thus made them create Saviours and
holy records. The belief in these they thought
adjustedthe difference, but now we know from those
who have made the change that all this was wrong,
and that what the ancients felt they needed they
created out of their own imagination. Let us there-
fore not look back, but forward, and remember that
every stream, no matter how it wanders, turns and
curves amid the hills and rocks of life, however long
it lingers in the lakes and pools, will sometime reach
the sea, and every one of us in time will reach the
sea of full understanding:
These views enlarge the soul and make us
tolerant with wrong-doing, though ever anxious that
the stagnant pool be cleared and mental indolence
not last too long. Let us adopt theserene philosophy
which relegates the creeds and the needless ritual to
a bygone age. They are but phases in the develop-
ment of man. Remember that Infinite Intelligence
planned our birth, our life, that we are part of this
Divine purpose, and as such must always be, and
never can we cease to think.
Let us therefore spread the doctrine of the
Brotherhood of Man, and that We are all part of the
Divine, and that having a common heritage and
destiny, to kill each other in war is such a crime
that those responsible will suffer terribly. Spread
this news far and wide, until the rulers of the
312 The Rock of Truth.
world, in fear of what their own fate will be,‘
will never dare to rush their people into war. Then
and then only will the League of Nations function
smoothly. As no one should allow an organisation
to think for him, so no one should allow a govern-
ment to force anyone to kill his brother man. If all
will only think aright, war will cease, and all
disputes be justly settled, as the result of harmony
between the minds of those whose duty it is to settle
internationaldifferences. Let us not beeithertyrants
or slaves but thinkingmen and women, and let us
help to make the whole world free. Everyone of us
has the power to be equal with the greatest, irres—
pective of birth or wealth. It is mental wealth that
really matters, and each can reach the mental level
of the greatest if the desire exists. In thedemocracy
of the Mind the peasant can be equal to the king.
In the intellectual hospitality of the Mind all can be
equal. The domain of the Mind is unbounded and
in it all are kings.
Next best to finding the truth is to search for
it, and to do so all should question and reason, as
these are the guide posts scattered on the winding
road that leads to truth. Truth loves discussion
and thedoubtingquestioningmind of theinvestigator,
which results in intelligence, candour, honesty, sym-
pathy,and charity for all. Truthis the enemy of
ignorance, prejudice, egotism,bigotry,and hypocrisy.
The one lives by day, the others by night. Let us
each, therefore, be a torch bearer of the truth and
always strive for light, more light.
We now realise thatall past mistakes just taught
mankind to reach the road of truth. We pity the
Life’s Certainties. 313
follies of the past but understand them. We admire
theachievementsof thepast and should try to emulate
them. All the past errors and mistakes of man, with
their consequent sufferings and cruelties, were caused
by the stones of ignorance, on the road that leads to
perfection, over which he stumbled. As a result his
next steps were taken with greater thought.
Let us strive to follow the Religion of Duty and
forget the Religion of Mystery. Let us follow the
Religion of Reason which will result in the civilisation
and mental developmentof humanity. Let us preach
the gospel of humanity and that each should be noble
enough to live for all. Let us teach the religion of
Knowledge and of Truth. Let us preach the
religion of Humanity which destroys prejudice and
superstition, ennobles and lengthenslife, which drives
from every home the wolf of want and from every
heart the fiends of selfishness and fear. Pure
thoughts,brave words, and generous deeds willnever
die. A noble self-denying life increases the mental
wealthof the Universe, and a life well spent runs like
a vine for all to see, and every pure unselfish act is
like a perfumed flower.
I have had impressed upon me, by those who
have spokento me from Etheria,thenecessity of right
thinking, as those who teach error here must after
deathstand on thethreshholdof theafter-lifeand meet
again all those misled. What is shrouded here will
be clear there, and error willunfold itself with relent-
less certainty. Those, therefore, relying on ancient‘
traditionmust divest themselvesof prejudiceand learn
anew. Think straight and true and put truth always
first and foremost. Never say somethingis true and
1314 The Rock of Truth.
must be believed because it is found in an old Book,
unless you yourself have proved it true by definite
evidence, and never attribute to God somethingfor
which you have no evidence.
Around an open grave the clergy should speak
of the life beyond as something real, as something
greater and grander thanthe one ‘here, of themeeting
again withthoseloved here, and proclaim thatwhat to
us is loss is gain to them. Clergymen, tell your con-
gregationsthatthenext world is a real world, and that
in it live real men and women, with the bodies they
lived in here, but were unseen becauseof the physical
covering. Tell the mourners of thegreat institutions
in our various cities where contact between the two
worlds is made. Do not add conditions and reserva-
tions for which you have no authority. Do not talk
about salvation as if some are saved and some are
damned. Try to be rational, thinking individuals,
and do not make God appear irrational. If you do
not know about the after—life, as very few of you do,
then learn from those who do. Read and if possible
experience for yourself. Your duty principally lies
in ministering to the ignorant, and if you are as
ignorant as they are you cannot help them much.
Rememberyou will meet every one of your congrega-
tion again, and when the meeting comes about you
will have to explain to each the reason for your
preaching the creeds, dogmas, and traditions of the
past. Your future happiness and unhappiness will
rest on the amount of truth and of error you have
preached. The more this great revelation increases
-the greater is your responsibilityif you neglect it and
let pass opportunities of telling the people the truth.
Li]‘e’s Certaintées. .
315
Open your pulpits to those who really know, and
cease from thinkingthat you are a select body apart
from the rest of mankind, as all thinkingpeople now
realise thatyou know no more and are no better than
"the rest of humanity.
My message to all who live is this. From the
world which some day will be our home come
‘messengers bearing words of good cheer to all who
live on earth. They tell us we need do but our best,
think straight, and apply ourselves to the uplifting
of humanity. We must cease from wasting our time
on that which is unnecessary. We are not born to
live only upon this narrow strip of substance called
the Earth. A great and glorious country awaits us
after death. Mind knows no limitation, and each
one of us is Mind and nothing more.
When the end of earth life comes let us not think
thatwe have reached the twilight, or thatfor the last
time the golden sky is fading in the west. Let us
"not thinkthatnight has come, but thata grander sun-
-rise awaits us beyondthegrave. We must meet death
as we meet sleep, knowing that the morning follows
night. Thus should we enter the dawn called death.
No one has ever seen the structure behind the
"man or woman, flower or tree. All we see is theouter
garmentthatlife wears and functionsin duringa short
‘physicallife. The real man and Woman is something
‘far beyond what the physical senses can appreciate.
We all have a duplicate permanent body governed
by a mind which none can see nor touch. We can
-see but the physical expression of this Mind. No
physicalmatter has sensation and all our feelings come
from our etheric body. No one has seen the seed
316 The Rock of Truth.
thatgives life to earth, but only the physicalgarment.
which is warmed and wooed by sun and rain, and
from a tiny speck of dust-like stufi a violet or a rose
springs forth. It was not the physical that gave
thelife, but the Mind within,and when we realise that
Mind is all and all is Mind then we shall begin to-
understand the Universe.
We know now that death is better than life, as.
death is but the name given to the door through
which we enter, to reach another phase of our exis-
tence, in a world which is better, happier, and easier’
to live in. Deathis onlya change in our appreciation
of the vibrations which make up the Universe. We
now know that life on earth with its gleams and
shadows, its thrillsand its pangs, its ecstasy and its.
tears, its wreaths and its crowns, its thorns and its
roses, its glories and its C-olgothas,is but a prepara-
tion, a school, which all must pass through, and learn
1ife’s lesson, a lesson which does not end on earth,
but is for ever being taught.
Slowly we are learning to appreciate that
wondrous stream of life, with its cataracts and pools,
that rises in the world unseen, and flows through
earth back to that Etheric World from which it once
emerged. What seems a struggling ray of light,
twixt gloom and gloom, that lightens for a time this
strip withverdure clad, betweentwo great unseens, is.
never dimmed. What appears a dream between the
shores of birthand deathis a great reality,and though
we seem to stand upon the verge of crumbling time,
to love, to hope and disappear, yet it is the greatest
of life’s many certainties that each individual life will’
never die, becauseeach one of us is part of the Divine‘
Mind, which never dies.
EPILOGUE.
LAST year, when in Edinburgh, I stood in that
wonderful Cathedral, built on the pinnacle of the
Castle Rock to the memory of the sons of Scotland
who had passed on to a fuller life, so that freedom
and truth might take the place of greed and brutal
strength.
As I stood within this magnificent shrine I
thought of the meaning of it all. Scotland had ex-
pressed her soul in the grandest war memorial in the
world.
And just as the minds of the people of Scotland
have expressed themselves, so is the Universal
Mind, of which they are part, forever seeking ex-
pression throughout its boundless domain.
Just as thegracefullines of thisbeautifulbuilding
denote a perfect thoughtin stone, so is Mind forever
-seeking, everywhere, to reach in everythinga fuller
.and more perfect expression.
What an advance from the Pictish dug—out I had
seen in Aberdeenshirethe previous day, to this noble
thought in stone!
How Mind had developed in its capacity for ex-
pression! What a chasm of time between the past
and the present! What a contrast was presented
‘between the mind of the primitive savage living like
an animal in the ground, and that of his descendants
of to-day !
Mind, I realised, must be a developing, ex-
panding, growing substance, when it is capable of
-such an advance as was here illustrated. It must be
-something apart from the physical body through
318 The Rock of Truth.
which it works. The chemical ingredients of the
physicalare still the same. Mind has advanced and
in doing so has been able to express itself better with
the material at its disposal.
What a distance between the Savage and the-
Savant, between the primitive coracle and our ocean
palaces, between the crooked stick and the motor
plough! Man has developed just as he has applied‘
his mind to his surroundings, just as he has mingled
his thoughts with his labour.
I thought of the countless multitude who had
passed through the portal of death, and of the
gatheringhosts which for ages have been populating
the world beyond, and I wondered at the magnitude
of it all. I thoughtof the myriad minds out there in
space, waiting for improved communication to pour
out to us on earth their wisdom and experience
accumulated through countless years.
At the altar of rugged rock within this great
monument to self-sacrifice, I wondered at the great
unceasing purpose of the Divine Will; I realised
how Mind in man had advanced to happiness and
perfection just in so far as each one had put himself
last and another first. I realised how his happiness
had increased when he found it was better to love-
than be loved, and to serve than‘-be served.
I realised how self-sacrificeis not the individual's
loss but his gain ; how what seemed unjust and cruel
was in the end both generous and kind; how In-
finite Intelligencecounts not our years on earth, when
time to us is infinite. I realised also that when our
Work here is done it is but continued elsewhere ; that
deathis but a bendin theroad leadingto the Infinite ;
thateach one is part of one great whole, which never
Epilogue. 319‘
loses strength or power, and that what seems loss
to us is never so to that which always was, is now,
and ever shall be.
I thought of that unceasing Divine Mind of
which we are each and all a part or an expression—
always developing, always expanding, always
creating.
It then seemed to me how feeble are our
efforts to define it all in rigid words. How can the
part define the whole? How can we, in face of our
obvious limitations, hope to express in words what.
none on earth can ever comprehend?
How careful all should be to prove all things
true, to accept only what is so, to entertain nothing"
that our reason assures us is contrary to the truth 1
To speculate on what is yet to come without a
basis to build upon is mere folly and unworthyof our
intelligence. Better to say we know not than to-
hazard guesses without knowledge; better to be
candid and honest than pretend to a knowledge we
do not possess.
Our ignorant ancestors, believing that all had
beenrevealedto them,recorded theirbeliefsin words,
on stone, on skins and parchments. Thus theypro-
duced the entire story of our origin and our destiny,
and to this day their faithful followers in our midst
strive in every way to justify it all.
To leave the past aside, to live in the present,
and to contemplate the future from the standpoint of
our present knowledge, is surely wiser. To the his-
torians let us leave the past to be placedin its proper’
setting and perspective; they are the best judges
as to what is true and what is false.
For us it is better far to assimilate the know-
320 The Rock of Truth.
ledge of the present than the ignorance of the past ;
betterfar to show our gratitudeto thepast by profiting
by its mistakes and by avoiding their repetition.
To those of the past who by intelligent thought
have laid the foundations of our present knowledge,
let all praise be given, but never let us exalt the
past at the expense of our present knowledge, or
attribute to Infinite Intelligence the barbaric cruelties
and false claims of the past.
Let each one of us remember that our destiny
lies not in the past but in the future, and that as we
lay the foundations of our characters now, so shall
we erect the structures that will be ours for ever.
Let each one of us make themost of the present,
learning all it has to teach, as Nature’s revelation is
greater and grander to-day than ever before. All
theknowledgeof the ancients is as nothingcompared
with the knowledge of the present.
We should not let the past thinkfor us ; rather
should we make full use of the treasures of Nature’s
store-house, and avail ourselves of all it has to offer
us now.
Those who do not thinkfor themselves, who fail
to use the holy gift of reason, who employ some
others to think for them, are slaves to tradition.
All we have of value has been accomplished by
man himself. In his upward struggles against the
forces of nature, he has burdened himself too long
with those who professed that they, and they only,
could understand the deeper thingsof life and death.
Just as our countrymen fought and conquered
the forces of reaction during the Great War, so will
all thoughtful people in time defeat the purveyors of
Epilogue. '
321
superstition everywhere, and thus help to carry for-
ward the light of truth and bring nearer the glad day
when the world shall be filled with intellectual light.
When this time comes, sects and divisions will
disappear, and the world’s religions will be united
into one. Religion and science will join togetherfor
the common good of all mankind, and war will be
no more.
That this book may make clear to all the funda-
mental certainties of life, and also help Christian
people, and through them those of other creeds, to
extricate themselves from the quicksands of super-
stition and to reach the rock of truth, is the author’s
earnest hope and desire.
PRINTED BY LAIDLAVV & MACKENZIE, 95-97 HOLM STREET, GLASGOW.
ADVERTISEMENT.
PSYCHIC NEWS.
TWOPENCE WEEKLY.
The Spiritualist Newspaper.
All the views and news of Spiritualist activities and
happenings at home and abroad.
Authenticreports of Séances.
Contributors include :—
HANNEN SWAFFER,
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY,
GILBERT FRANKAU,
PROFESSOR FRASER-HARRIS,
FRANCES, COUNTESS OF WARWICK,
MRS. CHAMPION DE CHRESPIGNY,
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON,
MRS. ST. CLAIR STOBART,
SAX ROHMER,
SHAW DESMOND,
THE EARL OF COTTENHAM,
and many other well-known men and women.
PSYCHICNEWS is a weekly newspaper devoted
to the New Knowledge of the After Life, and tells
the truth about Spiritualism.
PSYCHIC NE IVS has the largest circulation of
any Psychic publication in the world.
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Newsagents every Thursday.
A specimen copy will be sent on application to
PSYCHIC NEWS,
166-168 BISHOPSGATE, LONDON, E.C.2.
Editor: MAURICE B.-\RBA;\'ELL.
PUBLISHERS’ ADVERTISEMENT.
ON THE EDGE OF THE ETHERIC Q
Survival after Death scientifically explained.
BY
J. ARTHUR FINDLAY.
The book that makes the Spirit World under-
standable, and is steadilyrevolutionisingthe scientific
and religious thought of the world.
It is now accepted that this book scientifically
located the Etheric World, and put it on the map of
the Universe.
The following is an extract from a recent letter
to the author, from a reader personally unknown to
him, but one Well qualified to express an opinion :—
“I consider your book the most convincing,
satisfying, and consolingthathas ever been published,
and the coping stone to the work of communication
with the real World. It has done more to give
consolation to the bereaved than all the parsons of
the Church of England.
great work which you might well be proud of to the
Indeed you have done a
end of your days.”
Translated into most European languages, Japanese, and
also into Braille for the blind.
Publishers:
RIDER & C0,, Paternoster Row, London, E.C.
___.
