{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1840__schabalie___wandering_soul.pdf","mytitle":"Wandering Soul","mylang":"de"}
THE
WA^Tj)Ei^ING SOUL;
OR,
DIALOGUES BETWEEN THE WANDERING SOUL AND
ADAM, NOAH, AND SIMON CLEOPHAS.
COMPRISING A
HISTORY OF THE WORLD,
SA.CRED AND PROFANE,
FROM THE CREATION UNTIL THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
FROM WHICH
MAY BE SEEN HOW ONE MONARCHY AND KINGDOM SUCCEEDED ANOTHER
HOW THIS HAD ITS KISE, AND THAT WAS DISSOLVED; AND AN
EXTENSIVE DETAIL OF THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
by;JOHN PHILIP SCMABALIE.
ORIGINALLY WRITTEN IN THE HOLLAND LANGUAGE ;
TRANSLATED INTO GERMAN,
BY BERNHART B. BRECIIBILL.
, TRANSLATED FROM THE FOURTH AMERICAN EDITION INTO ENGLISH,
BY L DANIEL RUPP,
'
Author, " Dor Maertyr Geschichte," &c. &lc.
TO WHICH A ClinONOLOGICAL TABLK AND A COPIOUS INDEX ARB
ADDED, ADAPTED ÏO THE WORK.
SECOND AND IMPROVED EDITION, WITH ENGRAVINGS
HARRISBURG, Pa.
PUBLISHED BY I. D. RUPP, & JOHN WIXEBRENNER,
•
PROPIUETORS.
STEREOTYPED BÏ \.. JOHNSON PIULAD^
18-10.
Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1833,
Br I. Daniel RuPi»,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania,
GERMAN TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE.
To THE GENTLE ReADER.
Dearly beloved reader, this book came
into my hands in the Holland language.
After having examined and read it, I resolv-
ed to communicate it also to the German
reader. The author of it is John Philip
Schabalie. The contents of it are a succinct
epitome, comprising the leading historical
facts of the world, from its creation to the
year A. D. 109.
From this book the Christian may see how
unstable the kingdoms and states of this
world are ; but he may also become acquaint-
ed with the virtues and vices of mankind,
and the vast difference between the two iu
their issue ; thus I concluded, that this book
contains much useful and common informa-
tion ; especially calculated for young per-
sons, who, having a desire for such know-
ledge as is promotive of godliness ; namely,
that they may view themselves as in a mirror,
in the examples of the pious and the ungod-
ly, and learn to consider their end, whicli are
plainly set forth in this work. What is hero
iii
IV PREFACE.
recorded may be found more at large in tlie
Sacred Scriptures. According to my esti-
mation and judgment, this book is none of
those of little importance—it is justly entitled
to a place next in rank with the Sacred
Scriptures themselves. It is not only a
summary of the Sacred Scriptures, but it
comprises also many other historical facts,
not contained in them, which took place at
the time those did, mentioned in the Sacred
Scriptures. This book also contains a nar-
rative of the fulfilment of the predictions of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, until
A. D. 109. The whole extent of time that
it comprises is rising of four thousand years.
I hope it may be as acceptable with us
Germans as it is with the Low Dutch, with
whom it has been repeatedly reprinted and
sold ; not only pleasing to read, but I hope
many may be excited thereby to become
wandering souls—travelling through the
wilderness of this world, having their hearts
directed heavenward : and that every reader
may be edified by the knowledge of the
truths of godliness so amply contained in this
little work—may all tend to the edification of
the Christian ; so that he may learn to know
PREFACE.
the Sacred Scriptures from a child, as did
Timothy : For the Scriptures only can make
man wise unto salvation by faith in Jesus
Christ our God. Amen. B. B. B.
List of books from which the materials of these
Dialogues have been selected.
1. Tlie Sacred Scriptures.
2. Flavius Josephus.
3. Egesippus on the Destruction of Jerusalem
4. Church History by Eusebius.
5. Extracts from Nicephero.
6. Church History by C. Baronia.
7. Augustin's Book of the City of God.
8. Caius Plinius on Animals.
S. Phorasis of Erasmus.
10. Sayings of Peter Messias.
11. The Bible of Nature by Plassius.
12. The Journey Book.
13. The Biblical Nomenclature.
14. The 1^0w Dutch Chronology.
15. John Calvin's Harmony.
16. G. Marcaton's Harmony.
17. The Letters of Gentellius.
18. The Memorable Sayings.
19. Several Books of the Life of Christ,
20. Several Treatises of his Death.
a2
THE WANDERING SOUL.
DIALOGUE I.
BETWEEN THE WANDERING SOUL AND ADAM.
Wandering Soul O reverend father ! I de-
sire to be instructed, happily to finish the
course of my pilgrimage ; hence, I am con-
strained to accost you first, for I understand
that you have lived many years ; nay, your
very appearance indicates it. Moreover, you
have walked with God, and had converse
with men ; therefore, experience has taught
you wisdom.
Adam. O son ! it is true I am a very aged
person, for I have lived nearly 930 years,
Gen. V. 5, and do not think to live many
years more, neither would I desire it. But,
could I have remained in my first state—in
the pleasant and glorious paradise, I should
never have become weary of life ; to continue
longer in this ruined world, I have no desire.
W. S. For the very purpose have I come
to you, to learn how you fel] from that bless-
ed state, and that I may profi* h^ it.
A. My son, be silent ; for I cannot think
of it without shedding tears.
7
8 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. Father, take courage—it appears to
me that you are very pensive.
A. Do not grieve me in my old age with
such questions-
W. S. Why, father?
A. O, when I think ! when I remember \
W. S. Father, I entreat you, be not vexed
to instruct me, your junior. You must have
seen glorious things, and to think upon those
things of which you are deprived, makes you
so mournfully sad.
A. No human tongue can describe how
pleasingly God addressed me, when I was
yet in favour with him. Gen. ii. 16, 17.
W. S. Did you see God?
A. He approached me according to my
weakness, in the most pleasing manner, so that
I can never forget it ; especially, since I see
that his love to me ward is not so great ever
since my disobedience. Therefore, O son,
beware of disobedience, be the matter ever
so small, lest the love of God depart from you.
W S. Tell me at present a little more of
Earadise : of disobedience we will speak
ereafter.
A. I am not able fully to tell you how
pleasant and agreeable every thing appear
ed—the trees were regularly arranged, of
variegated foliage, bearing every kind of
fruit. I went from tree to tree, and did eat
of each I desired—the birds were warbling
and chirping on the boughs, caroling the
WITH ADAM. 9
sweetest music : for every creature was more
sprightly, while I, their head, was in my first
glorious state, and had sweet fellowship with
God, than afterwards; but now they appear
to groan with me, their lord. I gave them
their names, each according to his quality
and nature : for God gave me wisdom, that I
had a knoAvledge of every thing under my
care. The fields yielded abundantly ; I had
whatsoever I desired—I had neither cares
nor sorrows, nor fears ; besides, God gave me
a helpmate—I loved her dearly, for she was
flesh of my flesh, and bone of my bone ; this
I knew as soon as she was brought to me
we had much pleasure in paradise ; we never
had an angry word—we lived as innocent
lambs, without care or toil—we were blessed
in paradise: when we had a desire to eat,
we did eat—we drank of the crystal streams—
the powers of our souls were glorious—we
were in burning love to God as he approach-
ed us—implanted love was our very life—we
knew nothing of deceit and fraud—we were
not subject to frailties—we knew of no evil in
the world—^we lived upon the good things
which God gave us—we communed more
with heavenly things than we were aware
of : even as a child is not so fully sensible of
the love and friendship of his father while
with him, as when he has lost him, neither
were we so sensible of the privileged bless-
ings we enjoyed till driven from paradise.
10 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S, Father, it is astonishing, since God
had endowed jo\i so gloriously, that you
suffered yourselves to be led away from your
Creator, through the transgression of one
single command, upon which so much de-
pended !
A. son, it is not to be expressed what
influence the woman has over her husband,
who loves her affectionately, and the more
so when there appears to be some plausible
reason for it; for the subtle serpent came
with such enticing words, making it appear,
as it were, that we would profit much by
eating of the forbidden fruit. The serpent
made my consort believe that we should be-
come as wise as God ; and it was on that ac-
count that he prohibited us to eat of the
fruit of this tree—that it was not his desire
that we should be like unto him.
W. S. O, the subtlety !
A. Her curiosity was so much excited,
that she had a strong desire to eat of the
fruit of the tree ; besides, the tree was very
pleasant to behold—she consented, and did
eat. Gen. iii. ß.
W. S. O, what a sorrowful eating!
A. And with this she was not satisfied.
She hastened to me with the same fair
speech which she had heard from the ser-
pent ; and I perceived that it had the appear-
ance of wisdom, and I suffered myself to be.
induced to eat.
WITH ADAM. 11
W. S What was the consequence ?
A. In the selfsame hour our eyes were
opened, and Ave saw that we were naked
Gen. vii. 3. Whereupon every thing seemed
to have been changed ; the birds became shy
and wild—the animals fierce; some ran
away from us, some threatened to devour us,
and were not subject to us any longer, and
a few owls remained with us. The lovely
sun seemed to shroud his pleasing face, even
so much so, that it began to be quite cold
;
in short, the elements with all the creatures
preached our disobedience to us, toward our
Creator, in their withdrawing themselves
from us.
TF. S. O, the immense loss in such a short
lime
!
A. All these things are but of minor im
portance ; one thing I cannot relate without
weeping.
W. S. Father, be pleased to refrain from
weeping, and relate me the cause of the
greater part of your sorrows.
A. O ! the plea,sing appearance.
W. S. What, of your consort ?
A. O, no; but the lovely and agreeable
presence of God, whom we were wont tx)
praise in the morning. He was our only com-
fort and joy—him we must now dread ; his
voice, which was as agreeable music, is a
voice of thunder to us now.
W. S. 0, the great change!
12 THE WANDERING SOUL
A. Son, never sin against God ; if things
appear ever so fair, in whatsoever hght, mat-
ters may present themselves to you—for rest
assured, death is the visages of sin, for there
is no Hfe out of God.
W. S. How did it farther go ?
A. We hid ourselves when we heard his
voice, and could we have ascended to the
clouds, we should have done so ; but, what
would that have availed ? for none can escape
the presence of God ; and though we stood
before him with dejected countenance, we
still thought to justity ourselves.
W. S. What, did you advance in justifica-
tion of yourselves .''
A. We began to excuse ourselves. I put
the blame upon my wife, and she cast the
fault upon the serpent.
W. S. Did this avail any thing ?
A. What would that have availed ; it made
the case only worse ; for God loves nothing
less than for man not candidly to acknow-
ledge his sins ; nevertheless, God punished us
according to his justice and our deserts. First,
he cursed the serpent as the originator of evil,
then my wife, and finally was I punished.
W. S. How were you punished ?
A. The serpent was cursed among all
creatures—upon my wife were put many
pains and afflictions in bearing, as well as
bringing forth children, because she abused
her will and counsel toward me. She was
WITH ADAM. 13
then bid to be obedient to me. And I, be-
cause I was not contented with paradise, was
condemned in the sweat of my face to toil
and labour for my bread. Gen. iii. 17. 19. As
you now see how I have to maintain myself
by this spade—at the plough—for the land
was cursed for my sake. Afterwards the
sentence was proclaimed to both of us.
[V. S. O, the great punishment occasioned
by a small desire after things forbidden ! But
what other changes followed ?
A. At the time when our sentence was
pronounced, we felt our very nature impair-
ed and wealvened, occasioned by headache,
toothache, and other pains; we were obliged
to protect our bodies against heat and cold,
for which purpose God first made us coats
of skins. Gen. iii. 21. The ground began to
bring forth thistles and thorns, choking the
vegetables upon which w^e w^ere to subsist
;
neither would good vegetables grow sponta-
neously any more ; instead of the melliferous
dew which made the earth fertile and pro-
ductive, we had occasional rain, now and then
excessive heat, so that we could provide but
scantily for our natures, and that with much
difficulty. The serpent looked fiendlike at
us, because he had been thus humbled ; he
made efforts to harm us, and with all his race
became our enemy, and we his : horror and
dread were between us and the other ani-
mals. My wife, who had always before
B
14 THE WANDERING SOUL
been an agreeable companion, became ob-
streperous when she found that she was to
be subjected to me ; she was even so impo-
tent, that we had occasional quarrelling and
wrangling : I had to suffer and bear much on
account of her infirmities—I had to labour
with my hands, and was a partaker of her
sufferings through love and the bonds of
matrimony. O my son,, were I to relate all
the changes which were occasioned by our
transgression, those of the body as well as of
the soul, I should fail of mind and time.
Vf^. S. Father, it is a wonder,, since you
were threatened with death,, and subjected
to so much misery, that you did not imme-
diately break off from the tree of life, and eat,
then you might have delivered yourself and
US from death.
A. This, my son, we should have done,
had not the wisdom of God barred paradise
;
but this would have been nothing less than
our destruction.
W. S. Why, father?
A. Should we, through our own will have
laid hold on life, nothing better would have
happened us, than what befell Satan before
our time : we would have been beyond re-
demption ; the greater the gift, the greater is
sin when man revolts against God ; there-
fore, w^hen God in his wisdom saw our pre-
sumption, he extended the wings of his mer-
cy over us, and drove us from paradisö. Gen.
r
WITH ADAM. 15
lii. 24, 25 ; so that we would not make our
selves the more wretched and miserable
through our own judgment, as we did in
part, by eating of the tree of knowledge of
good and evil. •
W. S. Yet it might be said, it is better to
live than to die.
A. O son, you know not w^hat you say.
God is the author of life, and he gives it out
of grace to Avhom he will, and without his
pleasure there is no life ; he that loves life,
must submit himself wdiolly to God ; for he
that seeks life in any other w^ay, shall cer-
tainly find death, as it is evidently the case
with Lucifer and all the ungodly; they have
not life, but a fearful death—wdiat you pre-
sumptuously think to be life, is a want of
judgment 'on your part.
W. S. You have said enough óf this, but
I have to interrogate you concerning one
thing. You mentioned something about a
change in the soul ; did a change in the soul
take place by 3four fall ?
A. Certainly, and Jio small one. The
pleasure and joy the soid had in God, it
sought afterwards in the perishable creatures
of this world, even as a king who has been
dethroned seeks his pleasure in the common
occupations of life ; nay, it has no remem-
brance of its former glory; hence it is, that
it abuses the use of the things of this world,
as long as it is not illuminated by divine
16 THE WANDERING SOUL
liglit. Meat and drink, which were created
for the wants of man, are converted into
gluttony and drunkenness ; raiment, which
was made to cover the nakedness of man,
has been converted into gorgeousness and
splendour ; the power of generating has been
changed into incontinence and lewdness, &c.
Everj^ creature is converted into different
purposes for which it was created, through
the blind eagerness of the soul : for in para/-
dise nothing of this was known.
W. S. What is the cause of all this ?
A. If man has once apostatized, he is de-
prived of the true knowledge of God; then
he seeks his life in entertaining his own de-
sires, because he knows of nothing else, un-
less he be again illuminated of God, and he
thus gradually degenerates, until he becomes
worse than irrational creatures. I have seen
many instances of this kind in my time.
W. S. O father ! have you experienced and
seen such lamentable things ?
A. Son, were I to relate to you all the
-changes and griefs I have experienced, it
would give me renewed occasion to weep.
W. S. Although I do not like to see you
weep, yet I would be delighted to hear you
relate what farther happened you, in order
that I might deduce a wholesome lesson
from it.
A. For your sake I will do it. Not long
after I was driven from paradise, my wife
Cain Slaying Abel,—pag. 16.
WITH ADAM. 17
bare me two sons, Cain and Abel, Gen. iv. 1,
2. Of the first, we had an exalted opinion,
for he was so fair to look upon, that we
thought we had gotten a man of the Lord
;
the other was not -quite so fair, and hence he
was not so much esteemed by us. As they
increased in years, the one became skilful
in tilling the ground ; the other was of a taci-
turn mind; he maintained himself by keeping-
sheep : he was very upright in all his doings.
Cain began to hate his brother because he
saw^ that he gained our affections and es-
teem by his honest deportment, and that God
took more delight in Abel than in him; and
because his own offering w^as rejected, he be-
came very wroth, being of a haughty dispo-
sition.; and we could visibly see from his
countenance, which ^\^s much changed, that
he was daily becoming more ill-natured : he
never uttered an agreeable word ; it was evi-
dent that he had some bad intent upon his
brother, although he never revealed it to any
one.
W. S. Father, you, being instructed br
experience in all these things, it appears to
be a matter of surprise, .tliat you did not im-
mediately reprove and instruct him : for
such a state of things is inconsistent witk
fraternal love.
A. O, my son, instruction was not lack-
mg ; for I and his mother frequently told him
what happened unto us, and liow we should
.B 2
18 THE WANDERING SOUL
fear and serve the Lord all our days. Neither
precept nor instruction avails, if one will not
take heed to his ways ; and, moreover, God
himself warned him to amend his life. Gen.
iv. 6, 7, as he has alw^ays, in his goodness,
warned many to reform, and in many ways
admonished him to beware of sin; but, if
Cain had only done no more than have been
angry with his brother, the loss would not
have been so great.
W. S. Why, father ? It appears to me that
you are very pensive.
A. Do be silent, for my hoary age cannot
bear the burden any longer.
W. S. At the present, I vv^ill desist until
you have wept a little.
^. O ! I had to experience so much sor-
row occasioned by my children !
W. S. What had you to experience, fa-
ther?
A. The first-born of the world !
W. S. What happened ?
A. O son, for thy sake, I will relate the
sad story. In spite of the many salutary ad-
monitions, he yielded to the sin of anger, and
wdien he met his brother in the field, he be-
gan to rave and roar, to excite his hatred and
malice. But as his tender brother gave him
a soft answer, he grew more and more en-
raged, seized a weapon, and therewith he
slew his brother, beat him that the blood
stroamed down his face upon the groimd, so
WITH ADAM. 19
much so, that he gave up his spirit to God,
and left his lifeless corpse lay as a carcass,
Gen. iv. 8.
W. S. O the sad story ! O the sad conse-
quences of sin ! But what happened after-
wards ?
A. At the time after he had perpetrated
.this atrocious deed, you should have seen
Cain, how dreadfully he wrung his hands,
cried, and wept : but it was too late ; he found
no quiet in his conscience, he was full of
fear and dread ; whenever lie heard a leaf
stir, he imagined that some one was in pur-
suit of him, to take vengeance upon him.
He fled from the presence of tlie Lord, as one
in despair and doubt, he went into a strange
country.
W. Ö. O, but you must have been encom-
passed with many sorrows in relation to this
sad catastrophe
!
A. Tins you may readily imagine ; the
comfort of our life we had lost : Im- o sons as
much as died in one day—the one, according
to his body, the other, according to his soul,
which was still the most dreadful. Tlie mo-
ther made great lamentation when she saw
her beloved son lie in his blood ; I knew not
how to comfort her, for I had enough to do
with myself Tiiis tribulation was so sore
and great, that it caused us to shed tears for
many months, until we were blessed with
.another son in Abel's stead, whom we called
'20 THE WANDERING SOUL
Seth ; and this liappened wlien I was 940
years old. This was a fair and promising
child. We had other children, but we had
none that resembled me in every respect as
much as did this one ; then it was, that we
tiattered ourselves, that God was about pro-
pagating- a different race through liim.
W. 'S. Tell me, if you please, what further
befell Gadn, who had fled; did he reform
afterwards ?
A. Inasmuch as I had many other chil-
dren, and they, in process of time, had also
children, and thus the v/orld being populated,
Cain then took himself a wife from among
my first daughters, and by this means in-
creased his race. Among others, he had a
son, and called his name Enoch, Ge-n. iv. 19.
Now, touching^ his reformation, concerninor
which you a-sked me, Cain was continually
in great fear, from the time he murdered his
brother Abel ; so much so, that he did not
consider himself safe anywhere : he sought
his refuge among men, and built a city in
the east, which he named after his son
Enoch.
W. S. Did he not pray God for the forgive-
ness of his sins ?
A. He well knew that his sins v/ere too
enormous to be forgiven ; therefore, he did
never, with true sorrow and repentance, turn
anto the Lord : he, it is true, prayed that
:he might be protected from homicide ; for he
WITH AD.VM. èl
imagined that the first person with whom he
met would slay him.
T^. »S'. It was a wonder, since there were
no persons : and had there been any, how
could they have known that Cain was a mur-
derer ?
A. He well knew that I had more children,
or at least had some plausible reason to be-
lieve so ; and that he might be murdered in
the first or following century. And, besides,
divine vengeance had implanted a dread and
fear in him of being overtaken ; and the
much more so in this case, because he was
the first murderer, and had a greater reason
to doubt the forgiveness of his sins, because
he had been so faithfully admonished and
warned ; besides this, w^e exhorted him daily
to lead a virtuous life, and he disregarded all
this, being determined to persist in his mad
career. Therefore, my son, if sin entice
you, no matter in what manner, and the still
small voice admonishes you secretly, harden
not your heart, but give place to the reprov-
ings of conscience, and resist sin without
delay, that it happen not unto you as it did
unto Cain ; for when the Divine light illumi-
nates the understanding of man, sin is not so
easily forgiven ; nevertheless, Cain is not to
be praised to doubt the efficiency of the
grace of God, yet let this be a lesson to you.
W. S. Could he obtain no comfort at all
of God ?
22 THE WANDERING SOUL
A. He obtained so mucli of a promise, that
he was not to be slain as he supposed ; and
God set a mark "upon him, that whosoever
would slay Cain, vengeance shall be taken
on him sevenfold. Gen. iv. 15.
W. S. How did it further go with his ge-
neration. Were there any virtuous persons,
and such as feared God among them ?
A. His generation was principally a peo-
ple that pursued agriculture and the me-
chanic arts, such as carpenters, masons, and
stone-cutters. As I told you before, Cain
built a city, which he called Enoch, after his
son, in which his generation principally lived
and maintained themselves ; but they were
not instructed in virtue by their father, be-
cause he was vicious himself His son
Enoch had a child born, whom he called
Irad. Gen. iv. 18. Irad begat a son, called
Mehujael: and Mehujael begat JVIethusael,
and he begat Lamech, who was the first that
violated the marriage institution; for God
had ordained that a man .should have but one
wife ; but he took to himself two wives, Ada
and Zillah, contrary to God'-s ordinance.
Adah bare him a son, called Jabal, he was a
virtuous person ; much displeased with the
splendour and pride of the city ; therefore he
retired to live in tents, and maintained him-
self as a shepherd. Lamech had another son
with Adah, his name was Jubal. When he
beheld the vexations and sorrows occasioned
WITH ADAM. 23
by sin, he began to make harps and organs,
to entertain tlie spirit of man with the music.
Lamech had a son with Zillah; him he call-
ed Tubal Cain, and a daughter, called Nao-
mah. Tubal Cain was a wise person, an
artificer in iron and brass and other metals.
He excited a great desire for wealth in this
world; he knew how to extract silver and
gold from other metals, and to make all kind
of jewelry, which pleased every one ; and
each esteemed it as a treasure ; for the wealth
of these articles consists more in the estima-
tion in which they are held than in their
actual worth. But Lamech, the father of
these men, did a greater evil ; to relate which
would consume too much time.
W. S. Father, it appears to mc that you
have told enough of the posterity of Cain. I
would like to know something concerning
the children of Seth, your other son, whom
you mentioned before. I trust I shall hear
something good of him.
A. When I was tw^o hundred and thirty-
five years old, and my son Seth one hundred
and five, he begat a son he called Enoch.
About that time, my son Seth and my other
children began publicly to preach the name
of the Lord, Gen. iv. 26.
W. S. Father, why was it necessary to
{)reach? Was not God generally acknow-
edged ? Did He no longer speak unto man ?
24 THE WANDERING SOUL
Was the creation not sufficient evidence that
there was a God?
A. O son, you have put a profitable ques-
tion; it is well worthy an answer. God made
his name known by his w^orks : the creation
could be seen everywhere; and, it is true^
He spake with men, at times through visions,
and especially through the inward monitor,
the conscience; but they disregarded that
with which they were become familiar ; for
the generation of Cain, existing upwards of a
century, was so depraved through the fall,
that their consciences w^ere apparently com-
pletely seared; for their conversation was
wholly concerning eating, drinking, build-
ing, marrying, and other temporal concerns,
pertaining to this life ; and they were bhnded,
and their hearts hardened ; nay, wholly per-
verted, and deaf to the voice of God, even so,
that many began to doubt whether there was
a God ; nay, they began to blaspheme the name
of God, as if they were bent upon making
Ms name void ; therefore the sons of Seth
began to preach the name of God with zeal,
showing the excellency and eternal dura-
tion of the name of the Lord.
W. S. Inasmuch as the generation of Gain
was so blinded and hardened in heart,
and disregarding the voice of God, and not
knowing God by the creation of every crea-
ture, what w^ould preaching imder such cir-
cumstances avail ?
WITH ADAM. 25
A. Son, do you not know, that like pro-
duces like ? Do you not know that chiktren
are induced sooner to give heed to strangers
rather than to their parents ? Ahhough God
teaches powerfully, and the conscience is
con\inced by the things of creation, never-
theless, the voice of man may frequently
cause more attention, especially with those
who have been inattentive; and with those
who live prudently, it cannot be in vain, to
establish more and more the name of the
Lord, through an abundance of evidence.
And furthermore, if man testify the same
which God witnesses in the conscience, or
through other means, it may be called the
voice of God being spoken by the impulse of
his Spirit. Finally, that which God teaches
by the creation in the conscience, and through
other means, such as visions, speaking through
men, who are moved thereunto, the same in
his word and doctrine, though each have its
particular signification, wdiereby men aro
drawn ; for it often happens, that one means
is auxiliary to another, and when connected
they make a harmonious concord.
W. S. You have given me much satisfac-
tion in this matter ; but, tell me, has God a
name whereby he is known, since your chil-
dren preached the name of God ?
A. You ought to know, that God has such
a name as he is ; therefore, to preach God is
nothing less than to preach his name. He
C
26 THE WANDERING SOtTL
is called almighty, because he is almighty
;
iiDLY, because he is liolij ; eternal, because
he is eternal; love, because he is love
;
righteous, because he is righteous, &c. &c.
All his attributes are as his names. There-
fore, his name is profaned and denied when
the image of his being is defaced in man
through sin. God wills that his name be
glorified and praised in man ; therefore, it is
necessary to preach the name of God, to build
it up when we see his name made nought
])y all the sins of men.
W, S. Father, tell me more concerning
the posterity of Seth ?
A. When I was three hundred and twenty-
five years old, and Enos was ninety years, he
begat a son, and called him Cainan. Gen.
V. 9. And when Cainan had lived seventy
3'ears, he had a son whom he called Maha-
laleel, v. 12, and when he was sixty-five, he
l)egat a son, and called liim Irad. Gen. v. 15.
At that time, I was four hundred and sixty
years old.
W. S. O father, many must have been
the difficulties and trials which befell you
during that period !
'
A. It is not to be described, and it is pain-
ful for me to relate. I will relate but a few
of the leading ones. Were I to relate every
thing, touching each child that was born, the
marriages contracted, the quarrels wliich
arose and were quelled, the numberless times
Witll A.bk'M. 27
that they came to me to consult mé, for they
generally came to me as the senior among
them : nay, were I to relate every thing con-
cerning the great vicissitudes of this world,
the changes of customs and manners, the
revolutions of the creation, and the outward
and inward temptations and trials I had
—
were I to relate all these things, time would
fail me.
W. S. One thing I have to ask 3'ou.
A. AVhat is that, my son ?
W. S. The sons of Seth, whom 3'ou have
mentioned, were they all pious men, and did
they all preach /
A. Tliey were all m^en as pillars, and
preached the name of the Lord. They came
irequently to me, to ask me concerning
things that had transpired, and I concealed
notliing from them, but I told them any thing
they desired to know-
W. S. Did the posterity of Cain reform ?
A. Alas ! his posterity became worse and
worse from time to time. Of Lamech, whom
I mentioned before, wonders could be related.
W. S. What then, father?
A. A history too lamentable
!
W. S. If you please, let me hear it.
A. As I said, that he transgressed the in-
.tituted marriage ordinance, moreover, he
A-as of a hasty temper, and very ill-natured :
and, it is very evident, that the vengeance
of God was impending over Cain, whicli he
28 THE WANDERING SOUL
brought upon liimselt by muraering his bro-
ther Abel ; and, it so happened, that this La-
niech could not forget the murdering of Abel,
He, therefore, rose up against Cain and slew
him, and mesisured unto him with the same
measure that he measured unto Abel ; and,
he also slew a young man ; for where anger
has once gained ground, it mil always be
the cause of more evil, and when he w^as re
proved of his conscience of what he had done,
he revealed it unto his wives, Adah and
Zillah. Whereupon, he w^as immediately
avenged by the favourites of Cain, for they
avenged the death of their father sevenfold ;
and since murder was in vogue, others again
avenged the death of Lamech seventy times
sevenfold. This was the Divine vengeance
consequent upon shedding the innocent
blood of Abel, because the posterity of Cain
did not reform on hearing the word of God
preached.
W. S. I perceive, by your discourse, that
this generation increased exceedingly in
wickedness.
A. So exceedingly, that if God does not
in a special manner interfere, it is to be feared
that the whole world wdll become corrupted;
however, I am now old, and near the close
of my life, and I shall not live to see that
event.
W. S. I thought that they were quite sub-
tile, circumspect, and wise men, and of great
WITH ADA.M. 29
Liiiderstanding. How did it come that thoy
increased so mucli in Avickedness ?
A. Their acuteness was only in temporal
things, in the discovery of invention, to build
cities, dividino- of lands and making them
their own, which they acquired from Cain.
Before, nothing of that was known. How to
exercise authority, to Idll, murder, and the
like evils, to maintain these things according
to their conceived notions of justice, is wliut
they called great wisdom. This they did to
make one behevo that their prerogatives Avere
great.
W. S. O the great decline ! the ruin !
A. Man is brought to such a situation
when he departs from God, and seeks his
pleasure in things temporal.
W. S. HoAV does this happen, fatlier 1
A. O son, because man does not know
God in his glorious ways ; because, he that
knows God, for him it is impossible to seek
his pleasure in the creatures of this world.
How is it possible that man Avould reject gold,
and prefer the mire of the earth, unless it be
that he does not know the dißerence, or has
no knoAvledge of either? In like manner^
were these drowned in the sink of murder
tlirough their ignorance, and they spend the»
jx)wers of tlieir souls therein ; and the longer
they persist, the deeper Avi,ll the)^ sinl: into
it, and become more and more perverse.
30 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. o tlie imminent danger ! What
will this tend to ?
A. As long as a man does not know that
lie is wicked, it is impossible to advise him.
W. S. How can one attain to this know-
ledge ?
A. If a man be on his proper guard, and
resist not the light of God. For God at all
times leaves some knowledge of himself in
man, whereby he is reproved of sin. I and
my wife were warned before we transgressed
in paradise. Cain was also warned before
he slew his brother. These are also daily
v/arned by preaching and other means ; but
to be regardless of all brings ruin upon man,
and heaps sin upon sin.
W. S. Father, I perceive, by your words,
that if one does not reform, he increases in
wickedness, and finally comes mto a state
of obdurate impenitency.
A. Certainly, that is my opinion.
W. S. On the contrary, can a person, if he
regard himself, and give heed to the things
of God, attain to such a degree of virtue, that
he will always do the things of God, and
never turn unto sin?
A. To be sure, if he believe steadfastly in
God : for by faith a man is acceptable to God,
and he overcomes the world.
W. S. O this is something precious—im-
portant !
WITH ADAM. 3]
A. There is a man now living, who lived
many years in the divine life, and has come
to such a state of perfection, that he is more
like an angel than man.
W. S. Father, Avhat do yon say ?
A. It is true what I am telling you ; he is
so friendly and amiable^ and so virtuous, cha-
ritable, merciful, pure, and just, that it is a
pleasure to behold him ; but, withal, he re-
proves sin, and preaches very zealously of
the eternal God.
W. S. And yet a man ?
A. To be sure he is a man, even as we
are. I knew his father and mother.
W. S. Of whose posterity is he ?
A. Of Seth's, of which I related you be-
fore, until Jared was born, if you remember it.
W. S. I remember it well.
A. This same Jared is his father ; for when
he was 162 3^ears old, he had this blessed son
born. Gen. v. 18.
W. S. What might be the name of thib
blessed and pious man ?
A. His name is Enoch.
W. S. He must be considerably advanced
in years, according to what you say.
A. He is now 307 years old, for I was 622
years old when he was born, and I am now
almost 930 years of age, when the sun enters
the sign Aries, who is now in Cancer.
W. S. Has he any children ?
A- Yes; and among them he has one,
32 THE WANDERING SOUL
Methuselah, whom he begat when he was
65 years of age. He was a son of fine ap-
pearance. This Methuselah had also a son
when he was 187 years old, who was called
Lamech, Gen. v. 25 ; but of quite a different
disposition of the other Lamech, of Cain's
descendants, of whom I told you that he
slew Cain, and w^ho vv'as afterwards murdered,
and avenged seventy times sevenfold. I say
he w^as of quite a different disposition: he
excelled so much in piety, as the other La-
mech did in wickedness. He is now about
57 years of age, and is a promising youth.
W. S. Father, please tell me something
more of the life of the pious Enoch ;
—my
heart exults to hear of him
!
A. He has ever, from his youth, been amia-
ble, and feared God ; especially after he begat
Methuselah, he resolved to be wholly dedi-
cated to God, and devote all his powers of
body and mind to the service of God. He
visited me frequently, and interrogated me
concerning many things ; for he took particu-
lar notice of the creation—of the revelation
of God—of every thing that had any the
least tendency to the reformation of life, and
of the Divine Being : and when I told him
of the joys of paradise, v/hat w^e saw and
heard there, and the friendship God mani-
fested to-us-ward, he was ardently excited to
know more concerning it ; and it grieved him
exceedingly, that we were so indifferent in
WITH ADAIM. 33
regard to divine things. O ! were I to tell
you of the many nights we spent together,
forgetting to eat, drink, or sleep—how he
called npon God his Creator, loved the im-
mortal Being, and had a confident hope to
enjoy him. The faith of this young man is
certainly not vain : for by faith we accom*
plish things that appear to be impossible to
be done. For the things he expects appear
impossible to follow ; for, if I am allowed to
express my views, he has always had quite
a different way from ours ; for he depended
wholly upon the power of the Almighty, to
vrhom all things must be subjected.
W. S. Father, methinks this man must
have exceeded you in faith, although he is
younger than you. But, tell me, did he also
preac-h unto Cain's posterity ?
A. Yes, he did, and with much zeal too,
He exhorted them to observe the times, which
even the fowls of the air and the beasts of the
field do, distinguishing summer from win-
ter, and suiting themselves to the change of
seasons. He advised them to repent : he re-
proved and threatened them—expostulated
with them—telling them that God would
come with ten thousands of his saints, to
execute judgment upon all that are ungodly
among them, of all their ungodly deeds which
they have ungodly committed, and of all their
hard speeches which ungodly sinners have
spoken against him. Jud. xiv. 15,
& A'
34 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. I well perceive, that this man also
had the spirit of prophecy, and knew^ to fore-
tell remarkable things. But I have heard
of those stiff-necked sinners. How am I to
understand that, father ? God is mightier
than sinners ; wdiat can their stiff-neckedness
harm him ?
A. God is a precious and amiable Bein^,
who wdshes to dw^ell with friendship in their
hearts, and implant the seeds of virtue. Be-
cause the ungodly are pertuberous, quarrel-
some, haughty, and proud, that peaceable
Being departs from their hearts, so that they,
through their blindness, cannot cherish the
word in a meek heart, whereby they might
be saved. And, moreover, the ungodly are
generally very much opposed to the blessed
messengers of God, who offer them most per-
suasively the love and friendship of God. For
all these things they must suffer punishment,
Ijecause they were so refractor};^ and opposed
to God, and have dispelled his Spirit from
their hearts, v/hen he w^ould have abode with
them in love.
W. S. Tell me, father, how was the .pos-
terity of Cain pleased with this man's man-
ner of life, and his doctrine ; could they in
any way agree with him?
A. This generation is so much engaged
in temporal things, and so bent upon becom-
ing wealthy, since Tubal Cain discovered
how to extract gold—and being encumbered
WITH ADAM. 35
in agriculture—building—so that the greater
part of them take no time to hear him preacli-
The voluptuous hate him ; others count him
as worthless, because he lived m a mean cot-
tage, like the one I have, and his clothes were
not made fashionable, serving only to cover
his nakedness, to protect him from heat and
cold. Others considered him as melancholy.
Ijecause he spent much time alone in medi-
tating in the field ; so that his preaching did
but little good among tliis generation. But,
among the posterity of- Seth, he is a great
comfort to the believers : he encouraged them,
he admonished them to do good ; he set them
a good example by his life, and was very
serviceable to them in many tilings. When
lie preached, he was surrounded by a great
multitude of men, women, and children, that
it was a pleasure to behold them. Frequent-
ly he preached in their houses—oft in the
groves—^upon the mountains—at the water-
side—according to the exigencies of circum-
stances ;
yet, he was, withal, much for re-
tirement, endeavouring how he might serve
God most acceptably.
W. S. Father, you relate some remarkable
thinQ:s. You are tellinj? me of mean cot-
tages. I perceive that j'ours is beginning to
decay ; wdiy do you not live in as large, new,
and finely built house, as the children of
Cain?
A. Son, why should we, who arc pilgrims
36 THE WANDERING SOUL
here, have such costly and superb buildings
;
one day we are here, and another, there. It
would be quite as arduous for us to have so
much to do with such, stately palaces ; we do
not feel disposed to make so much ado of
the things of this world ; we are looking for
a better one ; we look for a city whose build-
er and maker is God. It is quite different
with the posterity of Cain. Here they are
citizens, and have their lot upon earth ; and,
as they have not to expect any better part,
God permits them to enjoy themselves here
;
but we have no desire for these things. If
we have meat and drink, we are content
therewith. And, were we to set our hearts
and desires upon the things of this world, I
should have the best right to own and claim
all as mine ; for I am the first created of all
;
but, I trust, that these things will never en-
gross my attention.
W. S. Do others also come to visit you
besides the pious Enoch?
A. O yes, my children do, and especially
Seth and his posterity. It were too tedious,
and it would consume too much time to tell
you, with what reverence they honour me
;
and how agreeably we spend our time in
conversation—the lessons of virtue which I
taught them—their moral deportment 'and
godly life—the prayers and other interesting
exercises and offices of love and friendship
which they exercise one toward another. I
WITH ADAM. 37
say, to relate all these things would consume
too much time ; but you may readily imagine
how we spend our time, when I, an old fa-
ther, give instruction to so many children
surrounding me.
[V. S. Father, what hear I ? Do all your
children yet live ?
A. Of all my children and grandchildren,
not one of them has died, whom I mentioned
to you; and moreover, in the course of so
many years, they have separated into many
great nations, as you may see from the sur-
rounding countries, which are well peopled
;
and others have migrated into more distant
parts of the world, to inhabit it, and to spread
abroad the name of God.
TT". S. Why is it that you esteem the pos
terity of Setli so much ?—there are, perhaps,
other children of yours, who have pious sons
and daughters ?
A. O, my son, it is not to be told what
blessings the world is to receive through this
generation of this excellent man among them,
so that it appears that God made choice of
this generation to make known the wonders
of his goodness. God also said, that the seed
of the woman should bruise the head of the
serpent, which seed we look for to descend
from this generation.
W. S. You told me before, that there was
enmity between you and the seed of the ser
D
38 THE WANDERING SOUL
pent, and wherever you can, you kill the
serpent.
A. O son, you do not understand the
mysteries of the word of God. It is true,
that after the fall, there was a natural enmity
existing between me and the living serpent,
and that we kill him, we, as well as the pos-
terity of Cain does. But there is also a
spiritual serpent, the head of this serpent is
not bruised than only by the Divine offspring
of Seth, whom God gave in place of Abel.
W. S. Father, you tell me wonderful
things. What is this spiritual serpent T
A. It is the devil, who may justly be call-
ed the old serpent, for he is much older than
any common serpent, and his seed is sin ; and
the subduing of Mm is death.
W. S. Have you not, on the other hand,
a subduing power over sin ?
A. We have, to be sure, an everlasting
hatred against sin ; but this serpent w^ill not
be wholly subdued, only by Him whom God
has promised to Seth's posterity, and who is
to appear in the fulness of time.
W. S. Is there also a spiritual paradise, as
there is a spiritual serpent ?
A. Certainly, there is a spiritual paradise,
for all visible and natural things have their
invisible and spiritual reality.
W. S. Where is this spiritual paradise ?
A. Even as the terrestrial paradise was in
WITH ADAM. 39
the best part of the world, so in like manner
is the spiritual paradise in the most noble
part of man, who is the head of all creation,
representing the whole world.
W. S. Which is the most noble part of
man
A. The heart ; for out of it are the issues
of life. Man was first placed in this para-
dise, to cultivate and to keep it ; for God let
the stream of life How into it, to irrigate thé
whole, which divides itself into four princi-
pal streams, making every thing fertile ; so
that it produced all manner of fruit.
W. »S. I perceive that it is of the utmost
importance that this garden be well culti-
vated ?
A. If I and my wife had taken good care
of this spiritual paradise, we should never
have been' driven from the earthly paradise.
But my woman was deceived by the lust of
the eye, and was induced to eat of the for-
bidden fruit, and we did. eat spiritually of
the forbidden tree of the spiritual paradise.
W. S. What is the forbidden tree of the
spiritual paradise ?
A. The tree of the knowledge of good and
evil, of which many have eaten so much,
that they can never come to the tree of life,
for life does not consist in knowledge ; but
man attains it in simplicity, that he may en-
joy the goodness of God ; therefore, my son,
when the subtile serpent cunningly comes
40 THE WANDERING SOtTL
to you, recommending tliat tree, and telling
you that by tasting of it, you can become as
"God, be not deceived by his finesse, but be
humble and fear God ; for the knowledge of
^ood and evil, although it be pleasant to be
hold, leads from the life v^hich is in God,
who would rather that we should forget all
behind us and fix our eyes upon him, that
we may be strengthened and increase to
grow to a full stature of knowledge in him.
W. S. I certainly believe that a knowledge
of evil has no good tendency ; and I believe
a knowledge of good is indispensably neces-
sary.
A. Whenever the serpent has raised or
started evil, it is necessary also to know the
good, so that a person be not deceived by
evil. But there is something more precious
than knowledge.
W. S. What is that, father?
A. Love, charity.
W. S. How can I love that of which I
have no knowledge ?
A. Love is within you, and if you never
commit or do any thing evil, then it will not
be necessary for you to learn to know love.
W. S. I must certainly increase in love.
A. God, who is the author of love, will
increase it in you, provided you cultivate
with care and attention the inward garden.
W. S. How does that take place ?
A. You will have to close well the hedge,
WITH ADAM. 41
SO that all manner of wild beasts, sach as
lions, bears, the wild boar, &c. &c. be kept
out of it. These are wild, unclean, and de-
structive thoughts, which arise out of impure
desires ; these you must lop off close, and
not suffer them to sprout any the least in
your precious and noble soul, for they would
destroy and choke every thing, destroy the
tender germs which put forth spiritually;
nay, root them up, and convert the pleasant
garden into a wilderness. But, on the con-
trary, if you be vigilant, and keep secure
every entrance, the pleasant plants, and es-
pecially the tree of life, will increase more
and more within you; for the melliferous dew
of Divine grace will continually moisten the
spiritual field, and make it fertile ; so that it
will become a glorious and a pleasant garden.
W. S. I thank you, father, for this whole-
some instruction. But, tell me, is there also
another paradise ?
A. There is also a heavenly paradise, with
which this is intimately connected. The
one of wdiich we spoke last is only earthly :
this is spiritual ; it is a paradise into which
Enoch expects to enter. Touching myself,
I cannot say that I have a perfect knowledge
of it, but when God will send the promised
seed of the woman, he will give full instruc-
tion concerning it. I hope that he (though
I will not live to see him) will make amends
for all ; heal the wound which the serpent
d2
42 THE WANDERING SOUL
occasioned, and convey me and you, my son,
after we have suffered tribulation and afflic-
tion, and bring us safe into eternal life, out
of his great mercy and goodness. This is
my earnest desire and expectation; inasmuch
as I had a foretaste thereof in the terrestrial
paradise, where all things were so good and
perfect, that there remained nothing to be
desired for ; and the celestial paradise will be
found in all things in greater perfection.
And now it is time that I prepare myself, in
order that I may be received into the celes-
tial mansions of bliss.
DIALOGUE IL
THE WANDERING SOUL WITH THE PATRIARCH
NOAH; COMPRISING A PERIOD OF 1077
YEARS.
Wandering Soul More than a thousand
years have elapsed since I conversed with
Ad«.m, who gave me an interesting account
of many things, especially of such as hap-
pened during his life ; and, since I see the
w^orld changed in many things, and observed
all these things as a wandering soul, I am
curious to know what happened during this
period of time, and as I can do no better than
WITH NOAH. 43
to ask the oldest whom I can find, concern-
ing tliese things ; for they generally have ex-
perience : whereas, with the yonng, theirs is
much hearsay. Methinks I have found a
a reverend aged person, who can satisfy my
curiosity; and as I have understood that
Noah is still in this part of the world, it may
be that this is he :
—therefore, I greet you,
aged father. May the grace of God be with
you.
Noah. I thank you, my son, for your salu-'
tation. I have always enjoyed this grace
from my youth up, and it has never departed
from me.
W. S. This is something holy and admi-
rable !
N. You may well say so, because this is
seldom the case ;
yet God alone is entitled to
the praise and honour.
W. S. Father, your appearance tells me
that you have lived many years : nay, per-
haps, there is none lilce you.
N. You are right in that, my son, for I am
now nearly 950 years old. I remember man}?-
of the patriarchs of the antediluvian world,
Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel. I also knew the
aged Metliuselah, than whom none was
older, and none will be ; for I do not think
to live so long, although I have attained his
age, within twenty years.
W. S. You are telling wonderful things
;
the more so, because vou appear to be so very
44 THE WANDERING SOUL
hearty and well, for the aged are generally
subjected to many frailties. Your eyes ap-
pear to be very clear ;
your hearing is quite
good, although you make use of a staff; but
that is no wonder, because middle-aged have
oft to lean upon a staff; and how much more
should one that is so very old as I hear you
fay that you are. But tell me, have you not
known Adam?
N. No, for he died 126 years before I was
Dorn ; but my father Lamech knew him
well. He was 56 years old when Adam died,
of whom I heard many fine things related.
W. S. Certainly you have attained an
advanced age, but what does that signify?—it
is appointed for man once to die, and were
he to live thousands of years.
N. What do you say, die ? He enters into
a better life through a temporal death, of
which the blessed Enoch is a type, a pattern
;
who, after walking 300 jewcs with God, was
translated into heaven. Gen. v. 24.
W. S. Father, what do you say?
N. It is true what I tell you, for my father
knew Enoch well ; he was about 130 years
old when that took place, and I have con-
versed with many others who testify that
they saw him ascend.
W. S. That must have been something
remarkable
!
N. My son, were I to relate all the won-
ders which have been told me of this man
—
WITH NOAH. 45
of his life, of his zeal, of his lovCj of his faith
in God, of his holy and devout exercises, and
finally, of his remarkable translation, or as-
cension into heaven—many were looking
upon it : some, who did not believe this, were
seeking for him high and low; some wept
for the loss of his company, others rejoiced
that he was no more, for he was salt to the
earth : others took particular notice of the
place where he was last seen, which has
been shown to me—the different stories con-
cerning this man—some attested to the truth
of the fact, others gainsayed what was assert-
ed. I say, were I to relate all, fx^om the be-
ginning to the end, time would not only be
wantinof, but I should fail in strenorth to
do so.
W. S. Father, do not trouble yourself so
much : I am satisfied to see that you are
wdlling, and I understand the truth of the
matter. But what comfort does this trans-
lation (ascension) afford you? For all the
other fathers died, and none of them was
thus translated into heaven, as Enoch.
N. Much comfort indeed. For in the
first place, we see that there is a dwelling
place in heaven for the saints, even as Enoch
himself declared in his day. Secondly, we
see the power of faith, which overcomes
death; for our father Adam, although he
died according to the flesh, had always some
comfort, and a strong hope of everlasting life
,
46 THE WANDERING SOUL
for God is eternal, of whom he received the
spirit; therefore he had a hope of eternal
things—he preached the name of God, and
comforted the afflicted ; and v/hen this wit-
ness of eternal things is confirmed by the
revelation of God through Enoch, we believe
more implicitly to enjoy a heavenly blessed
ness, notwithstanding our bodies return to
dust, out of wdiich they were formed; for
God may or he may not make us happy with
it or without it; however, we have seen in
the case of Enoch, that he can do it if he sees
fit ; we believe that he will give all who love
him an equal blessedness, being children
of one father; and we also feel in the spirit
of our minds a glorious life increasing, and
the more so, as the lusts of the flesh are
mortified. Therefore, I repeat it, that the
laying down of this body is nothing else than
an entrance into a better life, v/hich God in
future will fully reveal unto us.
W. S. I will acquiesce in this ; but I am
anxious to know what befell you, for you say
that you have lived many centuries; and
since all things change, it follow^s by conse-
quence that you know much to relate.
N. O son, were I to relate every thing
minutely, w^liich I have seen and heard, it
would require a century. I did not only
live many years, but have lived to see two
worlds. Further, were I to attempt to think
of all things past, tribulations would seize
WITH NOAH. 47
hold of me in the very attempt to think upon
certain things, that I should not be able to
accomplish it ; it will therefore be more ad-
visable to say not so much concerning it now.
IF. S. Father, I will not burden you too
much, but be satisfied if you will tell me
something summarily, so that I may derive
some salutary lessons from your narration.
iV. Were I not persuaded that you are
desirous of hearing to profit thereby, I would
tell you nothing ; but now I will, as leisure
will allow me, tell you some remarkable
things.
W. S. Before you proceed any further in
your narrative, yonder I see a very aged and
reverend person ; and, at his side, is a very
anxious youth ; who, as appears, is receiving
instruction : who are they ?
N. It is my son Shem, who is now 446
years old ; the young man's name is Abra-
ham, who is 65 years old. He is very anxious
to examine every thing—^lie comes frequent-
ly to my son and to myself; then I tell him
of many things which happened, and he oft
forgets his meal in giving heed to things
related, that it affords him much interest,
as you may readily perceive by his attentive-
ness.
VV. S. Father, you excite my curiosity
more and more—there must be some things
very remarkable
!
N. Yes indeed ! many more than could be
48 THE WANDERINÖ SOUL
comprised in many volumes. A few of them
I will relate.
W. S. I will listen attentively.
N. When I was born, in the 182d of my
father Lamech's age, Gen. v. 28, fourteen
years after the death of Seth, whose death
caused him much grief; yet he had some
well grounded hopes of me, that I would be
a great comfort to him, and to all the chil-
dren of God. My actions pleased him so well,
that he called me Noah; for they all groaned
exceedingly, not only by reason of the great
labour which it required to till the ground,
but also because iniquity increased and
abounded exceedingly among Cain's posteri-
ty, who cared for nothing else than to in-
crease their number, and enjoy the good
things of this world. Whereas, on the con
trary, they who delighted in the divine life,
and called the children of God, being the
children and posterity of Seth, of whom I
also descended, preached the word of God,
and admonished each other, so that they
would not follow the wicked course of life
which the heedless children of Cain did, who
sought their gain and pleasure in the enjoy-
ment of the world.
W. S. Did not God say, be fruitful, multi-
ply, and replenish the earth ? And were they
not to till the ground to maintain them-
selves ?
N. Yes, this might and ought to be ; but
WITH NOAH. 49
God has also endowed man with a precious
soul ; this then ought to have its culture and
improvement too ; and unless this be culti-
vated and improved, it will die as we may see
in other creatures. Nothing can increase, if
more of its powers evanesce than increase,
which is the same with the soul, when its
precious powers are weakened by the lusts
of this world, for the seeing, hearing, and the
other senses detract from the soul that which
constitutes its life, and thereby perishes, and
it cannot enjoy its part of the command, ''be
fruitful and multiply :" however, this has only
relation to the flesh, out of which there will
ultimately arise a general devastation.
W. S. How am I to understand this?
N. When the powers of the mind become
feebler, and the will is subjected to the flesh,
then man is tossed like a ship without a rud-
der, though by the winds of the affections,
out of which rise incontinence, murder, ex-
cess in eating and drinking, hatred, and the
like evil things, whereby the body as well
as the mind is impaired, and leads to a gene-
ral departure of the original design for which
we were created. God, created man to
live righteously and godly in love, and
indeed that he might live for ever, and not
like the beasts which perish. Now all who
do 7iot regard the divine life for which they
wore created, but degrade themselves so
E
50 THE WANDERING SOUL
much, that they are like the beasts, are called
the children of men.
W. S. Pray, cannot the children of God
convert the children of men by their preach-
ing?
N. Alas ! how should they convert others,
they were themselves—themselves
—
W. S. Father, it appears to me that you
cannot speak well.
N. Have succeeded, and that after some
time, and especially when the patriarchs be^
gan to die.
W. S. Father, take courage.
TV. O the mighty ! O the mighty ! how they
have fallen
!
W. S. I perceive, by your conversation,
that we have cause to shed tears for them.
N. I knew many of them upon whom one
might built churches, as to their external ap-
pearance ; they were leaders, acute and wise,
could preach the name of God as if they
were angels, appeared to be very polite and
moral ; nay, almost blameless : but what were
they ? they fell as stars from heaven, or were
swept away as by a flood.
W. S. O, how lamentable!
N. Do you see an eminence to the right
of you, at a great distance ?
W. S. I see it.
N. There was formerly a splendid city
there ; but it has been loner since demolished
WITH NOAH. 51
by the flood. In that city there lived a man
of our tribe ; he was an excellent man—^he
owned much sheep and cattle, and had
promising sons and daughters. He came
frequently to nie^ and we had many a con-
versation on divine tilings, especially on the
lives of our forefathers, and how the world
is now decayed and ruined : and he was often
astonished that he was so indifferent in re-
gard to rehgion ; nay, he reproved and in-
structed others that w^ere straying from the
true way. He was not inexperienced in
natural philosophy : in short, he seemed to be
a proficient in many things, in religion as w^el]
as in other things, and on that account, he
was very welcome w4th me. It happened
that his consort died ; she was very pious
—
he associated with me—he felt no disposition
for a long time to marry again; but he
changed his view^s on that subject; I warned
him not to marry one of Cain's posterity, as'
it was the custom of the day. He appeared
to have regard to my admonitions at first;
but to my astonishment, he cast his eyes
upon a young woman whose father w^as a
wealthy citizen of the city of Enoch, of which
there does not a single stone remain. Now
he began gradually to avoid my company,
and whenever I would expostulate with him
on the subject of getting married, he seemed
to think that one might marry whom he
pleased, if he would not depart from God.
52 THE WANDERING SOUL
O, thought I, it is enough when one begins
to turn his back to the Spirit of God, which
draws us so pleasingly. Adieu, adieu, my
friend, you will now sink into the murder
pool of this world.
W. S. Father, of what was he deprived by
taking to himself a strange woman ?
N. This you shall presently hear : As soon
as he was joined with her in matrimony, he
came no more to me-^-his zeal was wholly
abated ; the Canaanitish woman soon besran
to introduce her corrupt manners and morals
:
the children altered the fasliion of their dress;
they began to eat and drink to excess; their
whole conversation was of buying and sell-
ing, of feeding cattle, of maldng money, of
hoarding up wealth for their children, instead
of giving to the poor what used to remain
;
they seemed to get into want themselves. A
house is wanted to be built^a chamber to be
furnished, or there was a certain tract of land
w^hich was to be purchased, or something
else that required money ; in short, the man
who was before as a coal of fire, became cold
;
he loved the things of this world too much.
It was lamentable and heartrending for me
to see all this.
W. S. The man should have remained
steadfast, and his marriage would not have
been detrimental to him.
N. Believe me, son, he that cannot subdue
his desires while the Spirit is strong in him,
WITH NOAH. 53
and the opportunities for temptation but few,
that he will be able to do. it much less when
the Spirit is smothered—yea, wholly driven
away—and the opportunities of temptation
on every side powerful. Therefore does the
Spirit of God counsel every one to watch
and pray, lest he fall into temptation ; and does
not regard this counselling and perish.
W. S. It was certainly painful to lose such
a valuable friend.
N. O, that would have been nothing, had
he only continued thus.
W. S. I perceive, from your conversation,
that he increased in w^ickedness daily !
N. Certainly, he became worse ; for when
his children were grown up, they also mar-
Tied according to their own desires ; and, as
he was a man of some notoriety, they imi-
tated his example ; for every one said, if he
may do those tilings I may also do them : and
thus, in process of time, the children of God
were declining in piety, because thej^ looked
upon the fair daughters of men. Gen. vi. 2.
W. S. Were there no fair and virtuous
women among the children of God ?
N. According to appearance they were as
fair as others; but they did not adorn themr
selves much with gold and fine apparel.
They were satisfied that they were adorned
with the quiet and meek spirit in the inner
man ; therefore, they were not so highly es-
iteemed as the daughters of Cain, who were
£2
54 THE WANDERING SOUL
constantly altering and changing their dress
;
following the fashions of that day. The con-
sequence was, that when the daughters of the
pious saw themselves forsaken of men, they
did also imitate the fashions, so that this
stream of evil overwhelmed the pious more
and more.
W. S. What a calamitous stream ! It is a
wonder that you were not carried off by it
!
N. Touching myself, I do not know that I
ever changed myself externally or internally,
but always was satisfied with simplicity and
piety. I am always contemplating divine
things—^liow God punishes the evil and re-
wards the good—concerning which I speak
and preach much. I thought much on the
pious examples of our ancestors. I had a
refuge to, and great deal of comfort with
Jared. Father Enoch, who told me much
of his son's virtue and piety, was great com-
fort to me : when I think of his conduct I
am rejoiced ; but he died in his 962d year,
when I was but 366 years old. Gen. v. 20.
From that time the world became more
wicked ; for there were daily so many fall-
ing off, that I thought I should be left alone.
I could scarcely persuade myself to get mar
ried, because I feared that my children might
also be led away ; so that I was nearly 500
years old when my first children were born.
Gen. V. 31.
W. S, Thus I perceive, that you have seen
WITH NOAH. 55
a great deal of indescribable human wo and
misery.
N. Oh, son ! I have only related one in-
stance out of a thousand, so that you may
form some idea of the great decline. It would
be impossible to relate all I have seen, and it
is unnecessary to trouble you therewith ; but
you ought to know that their marrying ac-
cording to the lusts of the flesh was the cause
of many consequent evils.
W. S. Father, be pleased to tell me some-
thing of those evils.
N. It is with much difficulty that I can re
late them, on account of my overwhelming
griefs
!
W. S. I well believe it, that it is painful
for you ; but for my sake, be pleased to re-
late as much as may be agreeable with your
owm feelings.
N. When men had rejected the salutary
movings of the Spirit of God, the Spirit
departed from the soul with all its illuminat-
ing influences ; and then the wickedness of
men abounded more and more, so that not
only matrimony w^as entered into contrary to
the will of God, but lewdness and murder
became a common thing ; for from the illicit
connexion of the children of God with the
children of the world, giants were produced
—
men of enormous stature, mighty, wealthy,
and cruel tyrants (Gen. v. 4), whose will
none could resist ; and thus, the whole world
56 THE WANDERING SOUL
became rude and barbarous. All became cor-
rupted; wickedness was so great that the
brutes themselves became more cruel.
W. S. Two questions present themselves;
wdll you please to answer them.
iV. What are they ? Let me hear them.
W. S. The first is : Why those who were
born from the above-mentioned connexion,
were more powerful, more notorious, wiser,
and more wicked, than those formerly of
Cain's generation only ?
N. This I will tell you. Those of Cain's
generation before had some fear and respect
for the children of God; they heard preach-
ing occasionally—^had some respect for Adam,
Enoch, and several others—were only a part
of the people of the world, as those of Seth's
were a part ; therefore, neither the x>ne nor
the other could become the dominant party.
But when they formed a connexion, they had
all things in common : the riches, splendour^
wickedness, and lewdness of the generation
of Cain, were co-mingled with the wisdom,
the manners, and politeness of Seth ; so that
those who were born now cared not, or had
little regard for any one:; and under the pre-
text of godliness, they could commit acts of
cruelty and tyranny—being the descendants
of Sefh, and therefore knowing what to do or
to leave undone as well as any one could in-
form them ; and, for that reason, they held
imperial diets in oa*der to pass .edicts to exb-
WITH NOAH. 57
slave others, or to practise intrigue upon
them—to make them labour in building pa-
laces and planting and rearing pleasure-gar-«
dens ; nay, to add plantation to plantation,
and to enjoy themselves in all manner of sin-
ful amusements, such as riding^ running
horses, surfeiting, eating, lewdness, and all
manner of libertinism, without once thinldng
of the majesty of God, or any respect for his
ministers, so that they could be lords and
masters.
W. S. You satisfied me in this : but as you
told me that the brutes had become more
rude by the examples of these ungodly men,
please tell me how that came to pass. This
is the other question.
N. Give heed, my son ! Instead of being
lord to rule all things becomingly, man began
to gratify himself; to chase different ani-
mals, to hunt them down with horses and
dogs, was a favourite sport. Nky, different
animals were brought togrether to ficrht with
op o
each other ; such as the lion to fight the bear,
the leopard the wild-swine ;
yea, they set dogs
at one another, and cocks that they killed
each other. By this boisterous conduct of
man, the forests resounded with the roaring
of infuriated animals, and the more innocent
animals fled for fear ; and the birds of the
air were not secure from man. Thus did the
animals become more rude through the wick-
edness of man.
58 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. O, how grievous this must have
been to the Creator, who out of pure love
created all things good, that man might be a
partaker of his goodness, and that all might
live in harmony and peace, each in his proper
sphere !
N. O, son, it is not to be expressed, how
grieved God looked down upon man from
heaven ; even as a father looking upon his
family, and seeing them all dispersed and dis-
obedient, yet, moved with compassion, and
unwilling to punish them immediately, but
remembering that they are flesh and blood,
and not being obedient to his Spirit, he gave
them space to repent—namely, 120 years
—
(Gen. vi. 3)—w^hich he proclaimed unto them
through me. This I did when I w^as 480
years of age. About twenty years afterwards
Ï had three sons born unto me ; namely, Shem,
Ham, and Japheth, all of whom I brought
up with much solicitude; instructed them
continually, so that they would not be led
astray by the wickedness of the world, and
be lost.
W. S. This was long forbearance of God,
that he did wait so patiently for them to re-
pent.
N. God desires not the death of the sin-
ner, but that he repent and live ; and when
he punishes, he does it not out of hatred, but
out of compassion and love towards man, so
that he may be brought to repentance.
WITH NOAH. 59
W. S. No doubt you preached zealously
during this time that man should repent.
iV. Not with indifference did I give the
alarm, but I called with a loud voice that they
should reform themselves. I entreated them
with tears—I threatened them with the judg-
ments of God—I recounted the examples of
our forefathers. Especially did I mention
Enoch—^how he had prophesied of the de-
nunciations of God; and how Adam had fore-
told that the world would perish ; and to that
end there were two pillars erected which
would withstand the effects of water and fire,
which displayed some knowledge of astro-
nomy. In addition to this, I told them of the
heinousness of sin ; that God would certain-
ly not leave it unpunished. On the contrary,
I told them of the amiableness of virtue ; and
what great gain it was to walk in the love of
God. I preached unto them on every proper
occasion ; in the fields, in houses, in the market-
places, in companies; at any place where 1
could find hearers I lifted my voice ; for the
love I had for them so constrained meto preach
unto them, where and whenever I had an op-
portunity. I preached of the righteousness
and justice of God. It often happened that
when preaching, and surrounded by the old
fathers and a crowd of people, that some were
affected and shed tears ; for I addressed them
so affectionately : and this I did all to rescue
them from the impending destruction.
60 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. Since you did exert yourself so
much to preach to them, did they reform,
or did they persist in wickedness ?
N. The longer—the worse they became
!
W. S. O, how lamentable ; it is wonderful
!
'N. Do you think so, son ?
W. S. Is it not astonishing that they should
have heard all those fine sermons, and not re-
form or repent?
N. It is strange indeed that men should
act so foolishly ! but when a sinner has once
become hardened, sermons will never profit
him any thing ; they will never convert him
unless he give heed to the voice of God in
his heart. He will necessarily become more
corrupted ; wickedness increases in him as a
fruitful seed sown in fertile ground.
W. S. Your observation is perfectly true
!
N. That is the reason why the world be-
came more wicked. Some who at first ap-
peared to pay a little attention to the preached
word, became so accustomed to it, that they
also despised it ; saying, we knew long ago
what he preached. Others said, let him boast
as he may, we do what we please. Others
again were wholly taken up with trafficking,
sowing their fields, wasting their time in vo-
luptuousness—so that they had no desire to
hear preaching. Others again were carous-
ing, drinking, singing, quarrelling, and fight-
ing; thus here and tliere were some lying
dead. Neither justice nor equity was re-
W^ITH NOAH. 61
garded. Every one avenged himself as he
could; and thus the land was filled with
wantonness and abomination ! Yes, my dear
son, were I to relate to you all the howling
and huzzaing which resounded in the streets,
occasioned by these ungodly, rude young
men, you would hear astonishing things
!
Oftentimes did I lock my door on them. My
father was afraid they would kill me, and
would not suffer me to open the door for them.
At one time the cry of murder was heard
:
at another, they were singing and dancing
—
all manner of wickedness was going on. It
was painful for me to see such riotous and
tumultuous scenes of revelry !
W. S. How painful it must have been for
the pious to witness such scenes of riot
!
N. Among others, the venerable Methu-
saleh was to be pitied : he was sitting in his
cottage siojhinu: on account of the wicked-
ness of man. He was about 900 years old,
and had his cottage on an eminence, and re-
sided about a day's journey from me. He
was a respectable old man, down whose fur-
rowed cheek ran floods of tears when he would
think on the wickedness of man. I frequent-
ly comforted him, for he was my grandfather.
W. S. If man, who possesses but a latent
spark of the Divinity, is so much affected and
grieved when vidtnessing these scenes of hu-
man depravity, how must the immaculate
Divine Being have been affected on account
62 THE WANDERING SOUL
of the obduracy and impenitence of these
sinners
!
N. O, my son, when I think upon it, how
the paternal heart was affected when behold-
ing his children go to destruction—I say,
when I think upon it, my heart is pierced
with sorrow !
W. S. Father, I am sorry that I make you
so sad.
N. Speak on.
W. S. If you have recovered in spirits,
please to proceed with the history you com-
menced.
N. When God saw that all his goodness
v/as disregarded, and that wickedness abound-
ed more and more, he became sorrowful, and
said, I repent that I made man
!
W. S. O, what a sad state of things, when
God repented of his own works
!
N. True. God did not complain of his own
works, which were of themselves good ; but
of the sad state of things whereby his works
were unhallowed : therefore, he determined
to destroy the whole human race, together
with every thing which had life, and only pre-
serve so much seed as to replenish the earth,
so that his design in creating man would not
be wholly frustrated.
W. S. O, the Divine wisdom !
iV^. God had such a love for future poste-
Tities, that he determined not to destroy the
whole race; yet his justice required, that
WITH NOAH. 63
those should perish who did despise his mer-
cies, and would not reform.
W. S. Was this his just grievance not
made known to the children of men ?
N. Certainly. Besides my telling them
daily thereof, it was also discernible at the
heavens that God was displeased at the in-
habitants of the earth : the sun often appear-
ed cloudy and pensive—the moon, as blood;
earthquakes were often ; tremendous hurri-
canes ; days big with lowering clouds ; heat
and famine ; frightful comets ; all were threat-
ening the world ; besides the many epidem-
ical deceases, such as fever, the plague, &c.:
and thus God left them not without a witness
that he would destroy the people of the world
;
but, notwithstanding all these threats, they
swelled the list of their crimes and wicked-
ness !
W. S. How could it be, that all those
sio^ns of threatenings did not cause them to
fear ?
iV". There ever were interpreters and ex-
pounders who attributed all to nature in her
operations. They said that the sun and moon
appearing sad or pensive was owing to cer-
tain causes of the atmosphere ; the earth-
quakes were caused by subterraneous con-
fined winds ; the comets were occasioned in
the air, owing to a superabundance of dry
materials being ignited there : clouds, wind,
famines, epidemics, and the like, they attri-"
64 THE WANDERING SOUL
buted to nature ; saying, tliat God does not
concern himself about the human family
;
that when he created man he was then to be
governed by the laws of nature : hence it is,
that whatsoever befell mankind, was for their
benefit ;
yet it was never intended that these
things were to be portentous of evil.
W. S. O, the great heedlessness of man !
N. Ultimately God commanded me to build
an ark like a great ship, three hundred cubits
in length, fifty cubits in breadth, and thirty
high,* with three stories, a door at the side
of it, and a window on the top of the ark.
(Gen. vi. 14.) For God said, I will bring a
flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all
flesh wherein is the breath of life from under
heaven, and every thing that is in the earth
shall die ; but with thee will I establish my
covenant, and thou shalt come into the ark,
thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy son's
wives with thee ; and of all kind of creatures,
take with thee into the ark, of the clean birds
and clean animals of each seven pair, but of
the unclean only take one pair.
W. 6^. O, the profound wisdom of God, to
preserve alive more of the clean than of the
unclean ! But did you not think that the ark
• If the Hebrew cubit be reckoned at twenty-one inches, the ark
was five hundred and twelve feet long, eighty-seven wide, and fifty-
two feet high ; and the internal capacity of it, was 357,600 cubical
oabits. But if we reckon only eighteen inches to the cubit, its
length was four hundred and fifty fest, saoventy-five feet wide, and
forty-five in height.
—
Tvant.
WITH NOAH. 65
would be too small for so many animals, be-
cause you had also to take food for them ?
N. I was but little concerned about that.,
I put implicit confidence in God, and went
into the ark, well knowing that he would or-
der every thing wisely.
W. S. Father, I do not think that you
made the ark yourself
N. I did the greater part of it with my own
family : besides my sons, I also had several
hirelings, and I employed several carpenters.
In the first place we cut down trees and had
them brought all to one place, and had the
timbers hewn and some of it sawed into
boards, so that I could afterwards do all the
other work with my own family.
W. S. AVhat did the people say when they
saw you thus engaged ?
N. At first they did not know what I was
going to do; some thought I was going to
build a large house ; others, that I was going
to build a city for my generation; others,
again, that I was going to build a large barn
;
and so on : but I said nothing until I thought
I could do without the assistance of the un-
godly.
W. S. Why did you say nothing for such
a long time ?
j^''. So that if they would not any longer
assist me, that I could do all the work with
jTiy own people—as it happened to be the case
:
for as soon as I had told them what I wae
f2
66 THE WANDERING SOUL
about, one shouldered his axe, another put
his saw under his arm, a third gathered all
his tools into a basket, and off they went ; none
would w^ork for me.
W. S. That is strange, that they would
no longer help you
!
N. My son, it is nothing strange, for they
thought it something incredible; and they
feared, should any one believe it, that their
trade would not be as good as it was,- for the
carpenter's business at that time was a first-
rate business ; it was the prevailing trade of
that day ;
partly because the population in-
creased greatly, and partly because they took
a great pride in pulling down and building
stately palaces. Carpenters were scarce to be
had ; and if people had believed me, building
would have ceased immediately.
W. S. As the ungodly left you, were you
able to go on yourself with the building of
the ark?
N. We could well do it then, for the heavi-
est part of the work was done ; besides we
had considerable time to build the ark ; for
God would have it so that I should spend many
years in building it, so that I would also have
some leisure to preach repentance to the
world.*
W. S. But when they saw the work pro-
gress, did they not begin to fear?
N. Not at all. Some mocked and said^
* Noah was called a preacher of righteousness. 2 Pet iL 5.—7V<m*.
WITH NOAH. 67
what is the old man going to do ? Others
said, " He lias some more strange prophecies
in his head, saying the world will be de-
stroyed ; but should the world be destroyed,
and this old simpleton be saved alone, and
we are to drown, what kind of talk is all
that ? No ! the world is too firm ; the sun,
the moon, and the stars will continue in their
courses, and nothing will change. Besides,
marrying and giving in marriage, building
and planting will always be the order of the
day, as it has ever been ; therefore, it is all
fabulous—his talk is incredible !"
W. S. Was there none that believed
you?
N. Among the aged, there were a few.
Methuselah and my father Lamech believed
and they corroborated my statements; but
Üiey did not regard them, for they believed
them to be childish, on account of their great
age.
W. S. O, how sensuality blinds the heart
!
N. Son, this I have often witnessed, for I
preached, prayed, entreated, exhorted them,
and pointed them to the ark; telling them,
behold the time cometh that God will destroy
the world by a flood, therefore am I building
the ark. Repent, reform, and you shall bo
saved ; if not, you must perish, and lament
your impenitence when too late. But all
was in vain—they increased in wickedness
daily.
68
'
THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. But how did it go with them in the
end?
N. They saw me going on regularly with
building the ark ; and the world changed in
wickedness, drunkenness, lewdness, incon-
tinence, and all manner of fraud in weight
and measure—those who dealt honourably
before and acted with discretion, were seen
to be in confusion : one attended to his do-
mestic concerns, another was planting trees,
a third riding in his pleasure carriage ; and
you could scarcely find one that had any de-
sire at all for spiritual things ; and thus they
continued riotinq; and revellincr—all the earth
was wicked
!
W. S. O what a lamentable state ofthings
!
'
N. I often indulged the hope that some
one or other would repent and reform. I seve-
ral times spoke with them familiarly on the
subject, but I was invariably insulted or
frowned at, or they turned their backs upon
me—even some fell asleep when I continued
my discourse too long ; nay, some who were
very rude blasphemed, and threatened to
strike me, so that I was often obliged to de-
sist preaching.
W. S. Father, this must have been a bur-
den upon your heart, to await their dreadful
doom, for no doubt there were some of your
friends among them ; and the time was fast
approaching
!
N. Son, I am not able to tell you the bur-
WITH NOA.II. 69
den of my heart then, to look npon the de-
struction of the whole human family !
W. S. Did there not some die, in the mean
time, on account of their age ?
N. Certainly, some died of sickness and
age, according to the cause of nature ; among
others, v/hile I was engaged at the ark, my
father Lamech died, aged 777 years; he died
five years before the flood. Shortly after his
death I finished the ark. Gen. v. 31.
W. S. Did the people at that time not
begin to reflect?
N. Much less than before. In no year
was there so much building, so much atten-
tion paid to agriculture, so many marriages
—mercantile business was never more at-
tended to, than during the year before the
flood r so that it appeared foolishness to them
to preach or to think that the world would be
destroyed by a flood.
W. S. How wonderful, as if God was try-
ing your faith
!
N. As I knew that the ways of God were
wondrous, I was very little startled.
W. S. Nevertheless, it v/as something re-
markable !
N. Your remarks are correct ; but what 1
have further to relate is worthy your atten-
tion. There was in my neighbourhood a
wealthy and respectable man, the ruins ol
whose house are yet to be seen : he had four
sons and three daughters married this year.
70 THE WANDERING SOUL
At each marriage a sumptuous and splendid
feast was prepared—singing and dancing, as
usual. The man came to me, and told what a
splendid house he was about building for his
eldest son, for the second son another, and so
on; each was to have a convenient house, and
in addition to this, each was to have a portion
of land adapted to agriculture, horticulture,
&c. &c. ; and after his death each was to in-
herit his portion of the undivided lands. He
said, " We are in duty bound to provide for our
offspring.
'
' I said to him, '
' Mybeloved friend,
are you yet so ignorant ; do you not know
that the world must be destroyed, and per-
haps in this very year ? What will then all
your providing for be—would it not be much
better to learn to know God, and not to be so
much concerned about the things of this
world?" But all that I could say availed no-
thing. He began to reason with himself, say-
ing, " Why would God do all this \—he is too
gracious, too merciful : he made the world and
the things therein, that we should enjoy them,'*
and so on. I said, " Friend, you are ignorant
of the mercy of God, for his mercy is to wean
our affections from this world, and to prepare
us to enjoy another, a better world; and he
will not suffer us to remain in the bondage
and service of vanity and sin—all has to pe-
rish at last." But all this was useless, he went
on in his mad career ; sent for the carpenters
and stone cutters, laid the foundations for
WITH NOAH. 71
his houses, made ready all the materials.
Some of his buildings were already in pro-
gress, some knee high, other the height of a
man, when the flood came. Some of the re-
mains are yet to be seen.
W. S. If the old man was so blindfolded,
what could we expect of the young ones ?
N. This you may readily imagine. But
to proceed. In the same year Methuselah
died ; he was a son of Enoch. Methuselah
was 969 years old when he died. Gen. v. 27.
W. S. He attained a good age, and al-
though he was an old man, God took him
away shortly before the flood. I am anxious
to know more of this history.
N. Where I was residing there was a great
festival ; they collected from every part of
the world ; the market places were crowded
with all manner of traffic, the taverns were
crowded, wine was drunk like water, they
were all exulting and triumphing; quarrel-
ling and fighting, carousing, playing, and rev-
elling till midnight; instead, of thinking on
God, they mocked, inveighed, and threat-
ened, saying, ''Where is the ark-builder? It
appears that the world was to have been de-
stroyed, but we see it is all false—the ark-
builder is a liar—every thing will continue
as it has ever been." And the like derision
did they utter. I heard a great tumult at
my door and a cry :
" Gome, carpenter, we will
put an end to your world, you impostor, you
72 THE WANDERING SOUL
are only trying to disturb us, to mar our en-
joyments; you are a notorious liar." In the.
mean time I was prostrated before God, and
prayed for tliem with tears, that he would
not lay this sin to their charge—my whole
family was praying for them during the whole
night. The next day, which was the tenth
of the second month, and in the six hun-
dredth year of my age, the liOrd said to me
:
''The end of all flesh is come before me; for
the earth is filled with violence through
them; and, behold, I will destroy them with
the earth—come thou and all thy house into
the ark ; for thee have I seen righteous before
me in this generation ; take with thee all siich
animals as I commanded thee, for yet seven
days, and I will cause it to rain, and every
living substance that I have made will I
destroy from off the face of the earth." I did
according unto all that the Lord commanded
me.
W. S. What did then follow?
N. I immediately sent my sons to prepare
the ark : they pitched it Vv'herever the sun had
caused a rent; after that they prepared the
rooms, and the places for the animals, so that
every kind might be put in its appropriat-e
place, the larger ones together, and the lesser
ones together, and such as were of the same
species. To the birds was assigned the upper
story, and the creeping things were also to
occupy the upper story; and we occupied
WITH NOAH. 73
one of the middle chambers. Then they
finished all the necessaries for us and the ani-
mals.
W. S. Father, you had much to arrange
and set in order, before you had brought each
in its proper place, had you not?
N. You are right, my son; besides that
I was very much troubled on account of the
impending destruction of the children of
men, and I warned them again, especially
my friends and acquaintances; but they did
not regard my admonitions.
W. S. O their obduracy! But, tell me,
how could you get the animals to come to
you?
N. O son, with them we had no trouble
the divine Power sent them, and in such per
feet order, that we were astonished at them
for scarcely were the preliminaries attended
to, than came the lion and lioness as lambs
we showed them their place, and they went
in and laid down quietly. In like manner
did the elephant come with his mate, and so
did the rhinoceros, the camel, the panther,
the leopard, the wolf, the bear^ the drome-
dary the lynx, the horse, the ass, the ground-
hog, the swine, the camel-leopard, the phoe-
nix, the hyena, the gryphen, &c. &c.
Likewise did the lesser animals enter ; such
as the fox, the dog, the cat, the monkey, the
rabbit, the squii'rel, the weasel, rats, mice,
&c. &c. And so did the grasshopper, the
G
74 THE WANDERING SOUL
flies, silkworms, and all manner of creeping
things, of each one pair ; but of the clean there
were seven pair, such as the cow, the sheep,
geese, deer, &c. &c.; all went to their places
assigned them, in the most perfect order.
W. S. Father, I hear wonders; I am as-
tonished how these animals would all lie
dowm together, as some of them are very fierce
and bloodthirsty
!
N. God made them all tame. There was
not the least difficulty on that account ; even
the most venomous animals were harmless
;
for we had dragons, different species of ser-
pents, and other venomous animals; the cha-
meleon, the crocodile, the hippopotamus, the
otter, the beaver, and the like animals ; the
spider was busily engaged to weave itself a
web in the ark to catch the small insects and
flies, but she, as well as the serpent, did not
give any sign of her malicious nature ; the
wolf did not grin his teeth at the sheep ; the
rhinoceros and the icluieumon did not attempt
to harm the crocodile ; but they were all as
prisoners, endeavouring to save each others'
lives.
W. S. Wonderful interference of God !
How glorious a sight to see the animals enter
into the ark so orderly, and especially the
birds,ofwhich you have told me nothing as yet.
N. This is certainly so, my son, for these
came flying in on the last day ; except those
whose bodies are too heavy for the powers of
TVITH NOAH. 75
their wings, such as the ostrich, condor, the
cock and hen, the duck, partridge, and all such,
came in at the door; the others generally
came into the ark at the window ;
yet in such
a perfect order, that they could be easily dis-
tinguished.
W. S. O what a beautifal sight, but withal
a sorrowful scene, as it was to escape such, a
dreadful calamity !
N. There came the noble and only
phoenix, the beautiful bird of paradise, the
halcyon and his mate, the splendid peacock
and peahen, the snow-white swan, the soar-
ing eagle, the green parrot, the crooked bill-
ed owl, the keen hawk, the lively sparrow-
hawkjthe camel-bird, the purple bird, the long-
necked crane, the lovely and sprightly canary
bird, the goldfinch, yellow and red-breasted
robin, the stork, the turtle dove, and all
manner of birds, such as the bloodthirsty
harpie, the wouwe, the folk, the cuckoo, owls,
and ravens ; at last came the sea-gull with
doleful cry, plainly foretelling, by its looks,
the dreadful tempest which was hastening
with acceleration to the general destruction
of every thing upon earth that had in it the
breath of life.
W. S. Father, you mentioned a multitude
of animals as well as of birds: their ingress
into the ark must have been but slow, or much
order must have been preserved in their en-
trance into the ark.
76 THE WANDERING SOUL. ^ -
TV. This all happenned on the last day
;
but we made due preparations before, as I told
you, by the Divine command; and on the
seventh day, namely, on the seventeenth day
of the second month, I and my w^ife, my three
sons and their wives, according to the com-
mand of God, went into the ark. At the
same hour, when all things were ready, the
animals followed us, and then came in the
birds, who well knew how to enter acccord-
ing to order.
W.S. Had they all room?
N. They had. As I told you, the ark was
three hundred cubits long, fifty broad, and
thirty high ; and when the larger animals
were in the place assigned them, the lesser
took up but little space ; and the birds, al-
though there were seven pair of each kind,
did not take up more than half of the upper
story ; the small birds could have been easily
put in a place of four cubits square. Many
took up their place under the roof: such as
owls and bats sat together. And if a hundred
of individuals had repented, or even many
more, we would have had room plenty for
them. But to wish is vain ; there was no
space given any more for repentance.
VV. S. Please to tell me how it did further
go?
N. O, son, although it is rather a doleful
undertaking, I will relate it to you for your
further instruction.
WITH NOAH. 77
W. S. I will listen attentively.
N. The same day when we went into the
ark, the weather was remarkably fine ; the
rye was standing ripe in the fields ; every
thing in full verdure and blossoming; the
carpenters and masons actively engaged, and
the smith's hammer was heard resound ; seve-
ral houses were building ; at some scaffolds
were fixing up ; the farmers engaged in the
fields at their hay ; weddings were being
held ; one said to another, what fine weather
we have, and what a plenteous harvest ; every
thing appears as though the destruction of
the world by the flood was not near at hand.
And while all were merry and joyful, busily
engaged in planting, farming, building, mar-
rying and getting married, dancing and sing-
ing, without the least thought that God would
deluge the world ; and that we had all gone
into the ark after Ijeing mocked by all who
saw us build it ; and when the Lord had clos-
ed the door thereof, then the heavens were
spread over with thick, black, lowering clouds,
and a tremendous thunder-storm, rain and
hail, began-—such a tempest as was never seen
or heard of, Each ran to his house for shelter,
thinking that all would soon be over. The
sable night succeeded ; nothing but tremen-
dous thunder and the rattling hail and rain
was heard. The following day some of the
meadows were covered over with water, so that
some concluded to drive home their cattle
j
g2
TS THE WANDERING SOUL
but all was in vain, for they did not only see
the torrents of rain continue, but the foun-
tains of the deep were opened (Gen. vii. 11),
and powerful streams gushed out ; so that as
a roaring sea, the water came running down
from the mountains, and filled every valley,
so that the creatures began to swim and make
for elevated places. The rye was swimming
upon the surface of the w^ater ; the new build-
ings began to fall ; their festivities were dis-
persed ; ail their merriments were ended
;
every one began to think of his wife and
children—but it was Avith much difficulty
that they could get to their houses. They saw
the water running into their houses; they
looked with the greatest anxiety to the east
and to the west, to the north and to the south,
to see whether there was not some appearance
of a change, but there was no hope ; for the
rain increased every hour—^it continued day
and night. On the third day they were at-
tempting to escape to the mountains, and thus
they might have effected their escape, had the
rain continued but for a few days ; but it was
otherwise. Some got upon their house-tops
;
others did climb upon trees ; others did flee
to the mountains, where they all were for a
short time safe.
W. S. Father, please to tell me, did they
not then see that this tempest was caused by
their sins?
N. O son, had you heard the pitiful and
WITH NOAH.
"
79
lamentable cries as the waters increased, and
the roofs were swept from the houses, and
the tops of the trees being covered over; mo-
thers catching their children round their
necks, men their women, friends and neigh-
bours folding each other in their arms, seeing
the dead before them ; some were wringing
their hands, erlang and sighing, beholding
the ark at a distance, which was now float-
ing on the surface of the water, but it was
too late ; the da}^ of grace was gone !
iV. S. o what a sorrowful sight! perhaps
they would have repented had God given
them another day of grace !
N. Forced repentance is not so abiding as
voluntary repentance : they did not regard
God in their ósij of grace, therefore he did
not regard them in the day of trouble.
W. S. True, he that despises God, knows
not whom he despises.
iV^ That is true; but to proceed. In a few
daj^s some of the mountain tops were not to
be seen any more—here and there w^ere to be
seen roofs of houses, household furniture,
trees upon which were dead carcasses; rocking
cradles with children, mothers with children
at their breasts, some folded in each others'
arms, some on the dead carcasses of animals
;
birds which could fly no longer, and many
other animals. There were a few of some of
the highest mountains that were not wholly
inundated; these were crowded with men and
80 THE WANDERING SOUL
animals, all making most a doleful cry ; one
saw his father swimming, another liis mother,
'brother and sister, and a third his children,
and a fourth knew not where his friends had
stayed ; and what was the most lamentable,
none had aught to look for but death, for it
continued to rain day and night ; they still
tried to get up higher, but the water was on
their heels : they saw no way open to escape,
they would have gladly come into the ark,
but they could not reach it.
W. S. O how dear was their mocking and
laughing to them. '
How painful the reflection
that they did not regard the counsel of God !
!
N. They now well saw that their false pro-
phets had deceived them in explaining every
thing as natural occurrences, as if God had
not intended to warn them through those por-
tentous signs. What did all their temporal
pleasures avail them?—their houses, their
lands, and their cattle were all destroyed by
the flood : the mighty of the earth were no
more than the poor and lowly, the tyrants
were no more than those whom they sorely
oppressed. In short, every one was now
convinced of his vain pursuits.
W. S. Father, you speak the truth ; but be
pleased to let me hear more of this history.
N. After a few days more, all the moun-
tains were overflowed, so that every thing on
them had fled—every thing was destroyed,
men and beast, birds and insects, nothing
WITH NOAH. 81
remained alive except what was in the ark,
for it rained forty days and forty nights, so
that the water was fifteen cubits* high above
the tops of the highest mountain, Gen. vii. 20,
before it ceased raining, so that all things
perished.
W. S. O, the dreadful destruction occa-
sioned l)y sin.
N. O son, from this you may learn both
the mercy and justice of God; merciful to
those who repent, just in punishing tlie im-
penitent sinner.
W. S. This is an everlasting example :
but if you please proceed with your narra-
tion.
N. When the forty days' rain were over,
the sky became clear, the weather calm, plea-
sant, and agreeable ; the sun began to shine,
and the stars also appeared ; but upon the
face of the earth nothing but watee: was to be
seen, and the ark floating upon it ; and every
thing that had life was destroyed. The ark
floated upon the face of the water 156 days
before it struck any obstacle. During that
period I instructed my family in divine
things, and said many prayers ; and they at-
tended to the creatures, feeding them with
the necessary food. There was a great
change of temperature felt in the ark, for the
sun had entered Cancer, and the heat there-
of was considerably tempered by the frigid-
• Twenty-two feet and a halt—'Trans.
82 THE WANDERING SOUL
ity of the water, and both the water and the
wind were attempered by the heat of the
sun. After the sun had gone down one hun-
dred and fifty times below the cerulean hori-
zon, and again arose in the purple east with-
out his rays being obstructed from the face
of the waters by trees or houses, and as
he advanced in. his course and entered Libra,
when day and night are equal, it was then
that the ark struck, and stood still, which
did not occasion us little joy, for we hence
concluded that the waters were abating.
From that time on, the mountain upon which
the ark rested became more and more visi-
ble, and the waters abated daily; for w^hich
we praised God, who w^as mindful of us, for
we were very anxious to get on dry land.
When the first day of the tenth month was
at hand, and the sun entered Aquarius, we
saw the mountain tops appear, and we con-
cluded that the ark had rested on the highest
mountain in Armenia,*^ whereof the remains
of that mountain bear testimony to this
day.
W. S. Did not the beasts and birds give
some evidence of joy?
N. As long as the sun retrograded towards
the south they appeared to be dejected; but
* On the mountains of Ararat, about the middle of Armenia, near
the river of Araxes or Aras ; by which mountains we are to un-
derstand the highest mountains of Taurus, which overlook the
plains of Ararat in Armenia. Ararat is now called Alasis by the
natives,
—
Trans,
WITH NOAH. S3
as soon as the sun approached the zenith and
entered Aquarius, some of the animals were
heard. Especially the fowls of the air—the
lark began carolling most sweetly. The ra-
ven seemed to have smelled the dead car-
casses; he began to croak and make for the
window. When I saw all these signs I be-
gan to suspect that the waters had measur-
ably abated. I opened the window on the
tenth day of the month, Shebath,* as the
sun was entering the Pisces, and let out the
raven, and he flew to and fro, from one hill
to another, which was a sure sign that the
w^aters were not all dried up, although the
raven did not return into the ark.
W. S. Father, could you not look out at
the window, and see whether the waters were
not wholly abated ?
N. Because the mountain was so very
high upon which the ark had rested. The
land below w^as intercepted from my sight
by the atmosphere, that I could not be fully
persuaded whether it was water or air. In
order to ascertain it, I did send out a dove,
which returned, and I took her into the ark
again. Gen. viii. 6-9.
W. S. How did it happen that the dove
returned, and not the raven?
iV. In the first place the raven found many
dead carcasses upon which he could rest, and
had no desire to return. Secondly, because
July loth.
'84 THE Wandenmc souL
the dove found nothing to eat ; and not being
so speedy in flight as to reach the mountain
tops, she returned, again into the ark. How-
ever, I waited seven days longer, and then
let out the dove, who on her return brought
welcome intelligence, for she brought an
olive branch in her mouth. This was a sure
evidence that the waters had abated so much
that the trees were every where visible. Gen.
viii. 10, 11. This took place on the twenty-
fifth day of Shebath.* Seven days after-
wards I let out another dove, but this return-
ed not again. Gen. viii. 12.
W. S. Were you then assured that all the
waters were dried up ?
N. It was certainly a good evidence. But
I did not dare at the attempt to open the ark,
or to get out of it, without the command of
Him who bid me enter it : although I knew
that the waters were aba^ted, yet did I not
trust in my own wisdom, but I waited for
the express command from my Creator.
W. S. How long did you remain in the ark
after the last dove was sent out ?
N. Nearly two months. For it pleased
God to give us the land, not only perfectly
dry, but also fruitful and in full verdure; and
purged from all filthiness, and the noxious
stench of carcasses of men and beasts, strewed
upon the whole face of the earth. Notwith-
standing, to the delight of the animals and
•25thof July, A.M. 1656.
WITH NOAH. 85
myself, I uncovered the ark ; and thus giving
free vent to the pure and vivifying air,
although none desired to go out of the ark
till God gave the command, on the 27th of
the second month,* that I, my wife, my sons,
their wives, with the animals and all creep-
ing things, should go out of the ark. Gen.
viii. 14, 17.
W. S. Was there not great joy among the
animals when their emancipation was an-
nounced ?
N. Their joy is not to be described. And
how orderly they were in egressing when we
had prepared the way before them.
W. S. Be pleased to tell me concerning
your coming out of the ark.
N. This I will very briefly tell you. After
we came out of the ark, on Mount Ararat's f
lofty summit, all the animals followed us by
pairs as they entered into the ark, evincing a
great degree of sprightliness—^leaping and
skipping, feeding upon the grass of the earth,
which they had not seen during a confine-
ment of one year and ten days ; and after I
had selected a few to sacrifice, as well from
among the clean birds, as from among the
• The 27th of October, A. M. 1657.
{Ararat is encompassed with several little hills; though it is in
the midst of one of the ^eatest plains on the earth, and entirely
separated from the other mountains in Armenia. It rises in the form
of a sugar loaf, and is one of the highest mountains in the world.
No living animals are to be seen, but at the bottom and toward« the
middle of the mountain.
—
Trans.
H
86 THE WANDEÏIING SOITL
other animals, they all dispersed, each to his
respective place. The herbaceous went into
places where was grass; the carniverous
prowled about and lived on dead carcasses;
the . aquatics retired to fens, marshes, and
waters ; the fow^ls of the air made for the
the forests, carolling and praising their Crea-'
tor—especially the sweet-singing nightin-
gale. Every thing that had a tuneful voice
was heard proclaim the great Creator's praise
;
neither the cuckoo nor the owl could refrain
bringing their tribute of praise. Some re-
tired into particular parts of the world. The
bird of paradise and the poll-parrot migrated
to a certain island in the Indies ; the phoenix
went into Arabia ; the calcoon went to the
west ; the canary bird to the east ; the ibis
into Egypt; the crow and kingfisher went to
the northern regions ; others were dispersed
throughout the whole world ; others, such as
the crane, the stork, and swallow of the mi-
grative kind, observed seasons of the year,
and followed the summer : each increased,
and the world was replenished.
W. S. Thus each animal went into that
part of the world best adapted to its na-
ture.
N. You are right. For that reason God
created so many different kinds of animals
and birds, so that all parts of the world—^nay,
the air itself, should abound with living crea-
tures. For he is a God of life, and desirea
JS^^r
WITH NOAH. 87
that every creature should live in its own
element or sphere.
W. S. Father, two questions present them-
selves which you can answer at once.
N. What questions are they ?
W. S, The first is, in what condition did you
find the world when you came out of the ark?
The other, what was your occupation ?
N. To answer your last question, I have
to tell you as soon as I came out of the ark,
and before we descended from the mountain,
I built an altar unto the Lord, and offered a
burnt-offering for the preservation of our lives.
(Gen. viii. 20.) For as every creature is in-
fluenced by its sui generis (its like), so we,
the head of creation, are influenced by our
kindred in heaven. And being thus drawn
by love, 1 offered the Lord a sweet-smelling
sacrifice—incense of clean animals ; and pray-
ed God most devoutly, that he would be
pleased to become reconciled, and destroy the
human family no more. And the Lord ac^
cepted of the sweet smell of the burnt sacri^
fice ; and the Lord said in his own heart, I
will not again curse the ground any more for
man's sake ; for the imaginations of man's
heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I
again smite any more every thing living, as
1 have done. While the earth remaineth,
seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and
summer and winter, and day and night, shall
not cease. Gen. viii. 21, 22.
88 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. What do I hear ! Father, can God
smell?
N. Because God, who by nature is an amia-
ble being, loves every thing that is amiable.
He is not so much pleased with the bare
offering, as with the uprightness of heart.
God's compassion cannot be more excited,
than to offer him the sincere and honest de-
sires of the heart, which are more pleasing to
him than sweet spices. All that he desires
of us is, to love him only. This was manifest-
ed in the case of Abel ; for it was only the
sincerity of his heart that made his sacrifice
acceptable to God. On the other hand, it was
Cain's wicked heart that made God reject his
offering.
W. S. You have given me considerable
light on this subject.
N. After that God blessed us, that we might
replenish the earth, and have dominion over
the creatures thereof; not only to govern and
subdue them, but to eat their flesh. Before the
deluge we were not permitted to eat flesh.*
W. S. Why did God permit you now to
eat flesh ?
N. Because the flesh of animals is much
/Coarser and not of such an excellent sub-
stance as the flesh of man ; besides the animals
are often emboldened, without violating their
• It is not certain whether flesh was eaten by the religious fami-
lies before the flood. We have nothing on record from which it ap-
pears that God had given Adam express leave to eat flesh.
—
Tra7u.
WITH NOAH. 8&
nature, to devour human flesh and shed hu-
man blood : therefore God gave man permis-
sion to slay every clean animal and eat its
flesh, that he might be lord of all flesh ; for
God created man after his image ; therefore
he will not suffer the shedding of man's blood
to be unavenged—yea, man himself, if he
shed man's blood, his blood shall be shed
again. But since this law cannot take effect
on the wild animals, therefore is the blood
of man avenged in the use of animal flesh
;
yet with this proviso, that the flesh, with
the blood therein, shall not be eaten, or
while there is life in the flesh (Gen. ix. 4). But
flesh, with the life thereof, shall ye not eat.
W. S. Why not, father ?
N. God, Avho is the author and preserver
of life, does not want man to eat the flesh of
animals in a murderous or bloodthirsty man-
ner ; but first to offer God thanksgiving, and
then to eat the flesh when fully free from all
blood.
W. S. It is with much pleasure that I lis-
ten to your naration, and am anxious to hear
more.
N. Afterwards God made a covenant with
me and the whole human family, that hence-
forth there should never be a flood any more ;
and he appointed the rainbow of various
hues to be a token of it.
W. S. I thought the rainbow was made
'by the sunbeams shining upon the falling
h2
ÄO THE WANDERING SOUL
rain, and not by a special work of God, as
a token of nature.*
N. It is true, that it is made by the sun-
beams shining upon the falling rain ; but the
sun of himself could not give it those per-
fect hues as we see in it. The blue signifies
that the world was destroyed by water; the
ffreen signifies that the earth shall be ever
fruitful ; the red signifies that the world is
to be destroyed by fire. If it Avere not that
the finger of God had an agency in it, how
could the different colours be separated from
each other, and not be in chaotic confusion,
as we see that it is the case in a drop of rain
when the sun is shining upon it; for we per-
ceive several colours mixed, wdiereas in the
rainbow, there is a distinct line of demarca-
tion of the different colours observable in the
rainbow ; one part altogether green, another
blue, and another red?
W. S. But we see sometimes that the sun
and the moon have a halo of diverse colours
around them.
N. I am ready to admit, that it is some-
times so in nature, for I saw such halos my-
self before the flood ; but never the rainbow,
until after the forty days a.nd forty nights
rain, from which it is evident that as God did,
contrary to nature, cause it to rain forty
• It is not probable that there was a rainbow before the flood, for
the earth was watered daily by a thick mist, Gen. i). 5, 6, and then
Qiere could be naturally no rainbow; for it is made by theüURbesuxM
iiiimn|[ upon falling rain.-T.7Van«.
WITH NOAH. 91
days, so he does make the variegated rainbow
contrary to the laws of nature ; and thus the
rainbow appears during the rain as a token
that He will no more destroy the world by a
flood, though the waters fall copiously.
W. S. I'hus I hear that God operates
by means of natural things, and though they
appear to be common things, they are not-
withstanding more than ordinary.
N. Yes.
W. S. Now I come to the other question.
In what condition did you find the earth
when you came out of the ark? Be pleased
to tell me.
N. O son, it is unpleasant for me to tell
you ! As we came down from the mountain,
we found many dead carcasses, both of men
and beasts, that had gone up on the moun-
tains to escape. The trees also were hang-
ing full of dead bodies. The fields were
strewed over with shells, because the sea had
been over the whole earth; in some 'low
marshy places were trees lying covered over
with mud, so that it will appear strange to
many of the coming generations how these
trees had been covered over so deep with
earth ; and how it happened that some moun-
tain tops are covered over with shells. And
we also found the bodies of large fish that
had come out of the ocean, not knowing that
beneath them were green pastures. The
rivers also changed their courses; for the river
92 THE WANDERING SOUL
'
which used to flow out of the paradise was not
to be found any more ; the river Nile took its
rise in the east, and Euphrates in Armenia,
Hiddihel in Mesopotamia, the Gihon or
Ganges in Assyria extended further into
India. The great cities and towns were laid
waste; scarcely could the houses be recog-
nised as such; so that the world was quite in
a different condition than it formerly was.
W. S. Father, you have satisfied me in.
this matter ; but, if I give no offence in ask-
ing you to proceed, will you please to tell
me how things went on during the remain-
ing part of your lifetime of 348 years. For
I perceive that the world is so thickly popu-
lated, and every thing in such a fine condition,
that it seems to be almost incredible that
every thing was destroyed, and cities laid
waste.
N. O son, it would require much time to
tell you all what happened during that pe-
riod ; but I will tell you all that relates to the
rebuilding and repopulating of the world.
Immediately after the flood, I began to till
the ground, and I planted a vineyard. Gen.
ix. 20. My son Shem built cottages; and
two years after the flood he had a son born,
whom he called Arphaxad. Gen. x. 22. He
is now 346 years old, and had many children,
out of whose lineage Abraham is, whom you
saw speak with Shem. Besides Arphaxad,
Shem had four other sons, called Elam,
WITH NOAH. 93
Asshur, Lud, and Amram, who became a
mighty people. Likewise, Japhet had seven
sons, namely, Gomer, ]\Iagog, Madia, Javan,
Tubal, Meshech, and Teras ; each of these
had four children. My third son Ham also
had four sons, Cush, Mizraim, Phut, and
Canaan. The latter was ungodly and a mock-
er ; he saw me naked, and made sport with
me ; but my two sons, Shem and Japhet co-
vered me with a garment and concealed my
nakedness, therefore, did I bless them; but
cursed the race of Canaan. Gen. ix. 22-25.
Notwithstanding the children of Ham be-
came a mighty people, and exercised do-
minion.
W. S. I perceive that ungodliness was
not wholly destroyed by the flood.
N. By no means, my son, Ijut it increased
daily.
W. tS. Father, what do 3"ou say?
N. Son, I will tell you. When Peleg
Shem's third son was born, 104 years after
the flood, then was the land divided ; and
for the following reasons. Shortly after the
flood, my children migrated to the land of
Shinar ; and some of them being very ambi-
tious to make themselves renowned, and
others proud and haughty, as if to bid de-
fiance to the Almighty, and escape another
flood, they concluded to build a city, and in
it an immensely high tower, whose top
should reach the heavens. Gen. xi. 2, 3.
94 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. Father, it appears to roe that your
children ought to have been wiser, than to
rise up against their Maker, whose pumitive
justice they had lately seen exhibited ; nor
were they ignorant of astronomy, and they
might have known that it was impossible for
them to build a tower whose top was to reach
to the heavens.
N. Touching my sons, Shem and Japhet,
they well knew it was a vain undertaking
;
nor did they consent to it. But one of Ham's
descent, called Nimrod, who was a son of
Chuz, he became a mighty man in the world
;
he was the first great hunter ; he was called
a mighty hunter before the Lord, because
he had many that adhered to him ; and by
the aid of Assur, Shem's son, he made him-
self lord over all; and some through persua-
sion, others by compulsion, were made to
yield to his wild notions, and they all en-
gaged in building the aforesaid city and
tower.
W. S. O what presumptuous arrogance !
N. They immediately commenced build-
ing brick-kilns—mortar was prepared ; many
trees were felled ; carpenters, masons, brick-
layers, and many other labourers were called
to work—daily were they employed, and
busily engaged ; and in a very short time
they had built the tower an immense
height. But this daring presumption was
not well pleasing in the sight of God, and as
\nTH NOAH. 95
he had determined to destroy the world no
more by a flood, he availed himself of another
expedient to frustrate their undertaking.
W. S. Father, what expedient was that?
N. At that time they all spoke one lan-
guage ; but God confounded them so that
they could not understand one another (Gen.
xi. 6-8); for when one called for stone, the
other brought wood ; when another called
stone, he was handed lime ; when one said
hoist, the otiier let down. In short, they be-
came quite enraged at each other; each
thought that the others mocked him. And
when they earner together to instruct each
other, one spoke Hebrew, another Greek,
Arabic, Indian, Tartar, Moorish, &;,c. &c. As
there was none that could remedy this evil,
they then separated, and the tower was left
unfinished, not only on this account, but
they must needs disperse ; for Japhet's chil-
dren emigrated to the west; Gomer* into
Galatia ; Thuiscon into Germany (Teutsch-
land ) ; Tubal into Iberia ; Meshech into Ca-
padocia; Tharsis built a city called Tharsis;
Magog took possession of Scotland ; his chil-
dren and grand children took possession of
the islands of the west; but Ham's children
principally emigrated to the south ; Chuz
went into Ethiopia; Mizraim into Egypt.
Canaan went into a country which he called
• Gomer, it is supposed by some, was the father of the Germans ;
Javan of the Greeks; Meschech of the Muscovites, and other faaü
lies that dwelt in Europe.
—
Trans.
96 THE WANDERING SOUL
after his own name, Canaan. His sons were
Sidon, .Heth, Girgosi, Jebnsi, Amor, who
called all their posterity after their own
names ; but the children of Shem remained
with their father in the east. Assur remained
with Nimrod,* wdio improved the city, and
on account of the confusion of the language,
called it Babel, wehere they commenced the
first Assyrian monarchy. The others, name-
ly, Seba, Ophir, and Havilah, emigrated to
the Indies, where Peleg and his father Eber
are now ; and also his father Sola the son of
Arphaxad, and Shem,f his grandfather.
W. S. Father, you have- told me wonder-
ful things, and a striking example both of
man's first disobedience, and of the wisdom of
God in" frustrating the designs of the crafty.
and punishing them in such a way that all
turns out to the advantage of the world ; for
through the confusion of langu.age, and the
consequent dispersion, the whole world is
populated, which was laid waste by the flood.
N. This is a good remark.
W. »S. Be pleased to tell me what further
befell the Assyrian monarchy, for, as I un-
derstand, they have lately received another
king, called Ninyas.
* About the time of Nimrod, Egypt seems to have been divided
into four dynasties, Thebes, Thin, Memphis, and Tanis.
j-The offspring or posterity of Shem are the Persians, who came
from Elam their father; the Syrians from Amram ; the Hebrews
from Eber, as is supposed ; and particularly the JevFS, with other in-
habitants of Asia. Gen. x. 21.
—
Trans.
With noah. 97
N. It is true, but I am afraid that he in-
troduced too much luxury and extravagance
and vicious practices.
W. S. Father, how so ?
N. O, how the world is so easily deceived
!
W. S. If you please, relate this more cir-
cumstantially, so that I may fully understand
it.
N. Son, this I will cheerfully do ; but in
the first place, I will give a historical narra-
tion how Ninyas became king.
W. S. I will listen attentively.
N. After Nimrod, the mighty hunter, had
subdued some of the neighbouring peo-
ple by force of arms, and reigned fifty-four
years, he was succeeded by Jupiter Belus,
who introduced a good policy; he was ac-
quainted with astronomy, for he had the ad-
vantage of others having access to the in-
scriptions on the pillars; he also improved
Babylon. In short, he died respected and
regretted. His subjects honoured him high-
ly.* During his reign, Serug the son of
Reu was born. Nahor, Serug's son was
born when he was but 30 years old, and
• His son Ninus caused his father's image to be worshipped as a
God. This is remarked to have been the origin of idols. This Ju-
piter Belus was supposed to be a son of Osiris of the Egyptians.
The Temple of Belus was the most ancient and most magnificent
in the world. It was originally the tower of Babel, which was con-
verted into a temple. It had lofty towers, and was enriched by all
the succeeding monarchs, till the age of Xerxes, who, after liis un-
fortunate expedition against Greece, plundered and demolisiied
it.— Trcms.
98 THE WANDERING SOUL
about two hundred after the flood. Jupi-
ter Behis was succeeded by Ninus, who
built a city called Nineveh ; he also built
other cities, Rehaboth, Ir, and Calah, and
also the great city Rossen, between Nineveh
and Calah. In the forty-first year of his reign
Abraham was born of Terah, the son of Na-
her. But when Ninus ha,d reigned fifty-two
years he was put to death by Semiramis, his
wife.* She was a masculine, haughty, and
aspiring woman ; she had many great battles
in war, and killed Zoroaster. f And after
having taken possession again of the city,
which had revolted, she built a great wall
around it, sufficiently broad at the top so
that six chariots could pass along abreast
;
and when Babylon had become the most su-
perb and magnificent city in the w^orld, and
after she reigned forty-one years she died ; J
then this Ninyas succeeded her. He has
now reigned five years.
W. S. Father, please to tell me something
of the extravagance, luxury, and corrupted
manners which this monarch introduced.
* Ninus was so fond of Semiramis, that at her request he resigned
the crown to lier, and commanded her to be proclaimed queen and
sole empress of Assyria. However, the better to establish herself on
the throne, she put Ninus to death.
—
Trans.
j- Zoroaster was an eminent Bactrian philosopher. According to
Justin, he first invented magic, or the doctrines of the Magi, and
rendered himself knowTi by his deep and acute researches in philoso-
phy, the origin of the world, and the study of astronomy.
—
Trans.
if Some historians say that she voluntarily resigned the sceptre, af
ter she had swayed it forty-two years. Justin says she was killed
by ber son Ninyas.
WITH NOAH. 99
N. This I will do. Besides his luxury,
he introduced the worshipping of idols. Nor
did Ninus alone make an image of his father
Belus; but others made images of certain
females. Pallas and Vesta were honoured
and worshipped as goddesses. This Ninyas
erected temples for them, as though they
were gods and goddesses, to the dishonour of
the Almiglity, of whom cometli every good
and perfect gift ; and this he does in such a
way as to impress the idea, that all was done
to the honour of God, so that even Tarah,
Abraham's father, was deceived, and is wor-
shipping strange gods ; nay, his whole family
is tainted with idolatry; and I was much
concerned for Abraham. I warned him, and
admonished him, never to forsake the eternal
and only one God. It appeared to me it would
be much better for him to leave the country,
than that he should be decoyed by his friends
;
for the friendship of this world is so deceiv-
ing, that it is much better for rhan to be a
pilgrim upon earth, than to remain with
friends and be contaminated with idolatry
;
and because his father Tarah was very
wealthy, he was in greater danger to remain
at home than if he would leave his friends,
although Abraham is a man of good repute,
and is well instructed; but friends have a
powerful influence. Inviting each other to
dine, according to the custom of the country,
the offerings of idols were brought on the
100 THE WANDERING SOUL
table ; music of every kind accompanying'
their feasts ; the tables were decorated with
splendid plates, caps and saucers; the conver-
sation was wholly of wealth and riches, which
they had obtained—of their fine gardens and
lands, &c. &c. : this engrossed their whole
attention. I know so many that have been
decoyed, that I am very solicitous about the
pious Abraham.
W. S. Father, your remarks are very good
;
but where was he to go ? Is not all the world
corrupted ? Did I not understand you that
wickedness increased much since the flood ?
N. Yes, you have rightly understood me
;
but there are many honest and sincere per-
sons, God-fearing men. There is a country
south of us called Canaan ; in that country
there is now living a pious and devout priest
called Melchisedeck, who made an offering
of bread and wine to the Most High. He
lives in a city built by himself called Salem,
where he reigns as a peaceable king. that
Abraham might enjoy his company : although
he would be a stranger for a time, he would
still have this consolation, that ultimately all
would work together for his good.
W. S. What do I hear ? Do the pious
build cities on earth ? I thought that they
all lived in cottages, and were as pilgrims
here.
N. Although they built houses and cities,
they served them only temporal purposes—^
WITH NOAH. 101
no more than the pilgrim's cottage ; because
their affections are not placed upon these
things ; but they have them placed upon
heavenly things. They have also different
views in building them, the children of the
world having their hearts fixed upon invisi-
ble things. For instance, there is the city of
Salem. O, son, were I to tell you all con-
cerning the mysterious history which shall
be revealed in future, it would consume too
much time ; for the spirit of the prophets
shows wonderful things of this city. I am
now old and superannuated, and will not live
to see it; but those who shall live centuries
hence, will be able to tell wondrous things
that befell this city. The city is, as it were, in
the very centre of the earth. It would be no-
thino: strano;e, were it to become one of the
most noted cities in the world : but I will say
no more about it, and let time decide.
W. S. This is very good. But it appears
to me that so long as Abraham enjoys your
company, that it is not advisable for him to
leave you, and go into another country.
N. That is the very argument he avails
himself of ; and he says he will not leave me
unless by a special call from God. In that
case he would not listen to any one ; neither
father nor mother, brother nor sister, nor
friend, should dissuade him then ; and I con-
fidently believe him.
W. S. O^ how the pious do always love
l2
102 THE WANDERING SOUL
each other ! and it is perfectly right ;
provid
ed their love emanates from God, and is pro-
motive of his honour, and of the eternal wel-
fare of our fellow-men. I am exceedingly-
glad to find so many, both young and old,
who love you cordially, and honour you as
an aged father ; and you naturally are the
father of all, and much older than any of
them. And as they dispersed in families,
and you know the age of them all, I am anx-
ious to know their respective ages, if you
please to tell me.
N. I am ready to tell you, my son ; and it
will not at all displease me. My son Shem
is nearly 450 years old ; Arphaxad, 347 ;
Sala, 314; Eber, 282; Peleg died ten years
ago, aged 239 ; Reu is now 218 ; Serug, 186 ;
his son Nahor died nine years ago, aged 148
;
Terah is now 127 years old, and his pious
son, Abraham, is now 56 years of age.
W. S. Father, there is one thing that I am
much surprised at.
N. What is that, my son ?
W. S. Although all these men have not at-
tained your age, yet in their external appear-
ance seem to be older than you ;
yea, Terah,
Abraham's father's head is nearly silvered
over with grey hairs ; and, as you tell me,
his father when he died, was but one hundred
and forty-eight years old, which appears very
strange to me.
N. Son, bear in mind that it is not the will
WITH NOAH. 103
of God that men should become as old as
they did before the flood ; therefore they di-
minish in age as well as in person ; for you
do not see such giants as I have seen before
the flood : why, sir, the present race is but
dwarfs when compared with those before the
flood, although there be some few large men,
but these bear no comparison with those.
W. S. Why this great change, father ?
N. For several reasons. In the first place,
creation was perfect in all parts; but now
considerably impaired, so that she does not
produce such perfect and healthy fruit as be-
töre ; the virtue of the herbs and other vege-
tation is much weakened, so that diseases
cannot be so readily prevented. Secondly,
it is not necessary for man to live so long to
propagate his species as was required before
the flood. Thirdly, men do not reform though
they should become old, nor through a dimi-
nution of bodily strength, as we have an
abundance of testimony on this subject, af-
forded by those of the first world. And,
finally, because God created man to dwell
with him, and not only to live upon earth
;
therefore, it is not very material whether man
lives long upon earth or not, so that he lives
a godly life.
W. S. O, my dear old father, I am much
obliged to you for all your kind instructions,
and for your long narrations. I have listen-
ed to you with pleasure and astonishment.
104 THE WANDERING SOUL
I will no longer weary you ; but I pray God,
whom you served so sincerely, that he may
grant you eternal life when you make your
exit hence ; for, as appears to me, your time
of sojourneying is but short.
N. O, my son, it is my heart's desire to be
eternally happy ; and I do not calculate to
live much longer in this vale of tears. And
I also wash you the grace of God and his
blessing. Continue steadfast in the doctrine
which you have received from me ; it was for
that purpose that I spoke to you. Adieu, my
son ; may the Lord protect you in your pil-
grimage, so that you may finish your course
as a wise man, and obtain the reward of all
the righteous—namely, eternal life. Amen.
When the aged father, Noah, had finished
his narration, he rose up and went to the rest-
ing place of the holy ones. The Wander-
ing Soul pursued his journey, meditating
upon what he had heard ; having heard much
not recorded in the sacred scriptures, nor had
he read them in any book. He recorded
them in the book of contemplation, in the
book of examination, in the book of reflect-
ion ; and having heard nothino; but what was
in conformity with true history, he received
all with a view to improve himself, and was
ready to receive further instruction.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 105
DIALOGUE III.
THE WANDERING SOUL WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS.
[the first part comprises a period of 1356 YEARS FROM
ABRAHAM TO THE BABYLONIAN CAPTIVITY.]
Wandering Soul Since I have learned the
historv of the first world through Adam and
Noah, by diligent enquiry ; and according
to the narration of the latter, more than two
thousand years have transpired, in which
time, no doubt, many remarkable things oc-
curred ; hence it is that I am inspired with
new ardour to find some one ^vdlo can tell me
of those most remarkable things which are
jirofitable to be known ; and am the more
desirous, as I find myself in an ancient city,
which seems to bear more the marks of the
ravages of war, than to be forsaken by ad-
venturers. I see by these ancient vestiges
and dilapidated walls, they all appear to wear
the marks of conflagration. The precious
hewn stones lying here, seem to be all smok-
ed, and much injured by fire. Oh, what a
glorious city this mast have been ! The
mountains, with the remains of old buildings
and broken dowm palaces, as well as the re-
mains of these great walls, all show the form-
er greatness of this place, The new edifices,
106 THE WANDERING SOUL
appear to me, cannot be compared with the
former grandeur of this now desolate place
!
Who will give me an account of this city—of
its former glory, and of the causes of its deso-
lation? If I only knew of some old citizen
who saw the city in its former and present
condition ; one who could inform me from
actual observation. There comes a reverend
looking man ; he appears to be an intelligent
and virtuous man. I expect to receive some
information from him. Good day, aged fa-
ther ! do not take it amiss that I accost you
iirst.
Simon Cleo])lias. God greet you, my son
!
whence are you, and who are you ?
W. S. I am a wanderer, and exceedingly
anxious to learn the history of ancient things,
as I am always travelling. I have conversed
with Adam and Noah, who told me the his-
tory of their times; and since I have not
spoken with any one on the subject; and
inasmuch as I am in this decayed and deso-
lated city, and am desirous to know what be-
fell this place, and what important things have
occurred here. I apply to you with the ex-
pectation that you will tell me all you know
concerning it.
S. C. Son, you request much of me,
W. S.. How so, father ?
S. C. It would require new powers to tell
you all ; and I am an aged and superannu-
ated person, nearly 120 years old ; and I have
WITH SIIMON CLEOPHAS. 107
to watch the flock intrusted to my care, so
that I have very Httle leisure ; and this nar-
ration, to give you it in detail, would require
several months' time.
W. S. You make me more desirous to knew
the history of this place than I w^as before.
But what did you say you are a shepherd?
S. C. Yes, of men.
W. S. Oh, how happy must be the flock
!
But if it be so that you have charge of a fold,
recollect I am also one of the flock, and am
anxious to be fed of you on the pastures of
sound doctrine.
S. C. Since you are sincere, and desiring
not only to know, but to do, I will not con-
sider it at all an arduous task, but will serve
you cheerfully ; therefore, let us ascend Mount
Zion, which is directly in our view.
W. S. To the place wdiere the remains of
an old w^all are ?
S. C. Yes.
W. S. How difficult it is to get over these
heaps of stone. What grand buildings were
those lying in ruins. Oh, is it not lamenta-
ble that this great city is thus desolate !
»S. C. Son, do you already begin to sigh ?
Let me sigh, w^ho saw^ this desolation take
place.
W. S. Father, what troubles you ? Why
do you weep ?
S. C. Oh, the cause of all this !
W. S What do you mean by this ?
108 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. I say the justly merited cause. Ohj
the innocent blood which was shed in this
city ! and especially—
^
W. S. Father, you are too pensive to tell
me any thing. How will we finish ?
»S. C. The righteous, the holy one, and the
merciful one
!
W. S. Oh, how grieved you appear
!
S. C. Jesus.
W.S. Who is he?
S. C. Now I only learn how ignorant you
are of those things which happened here
;
and that you have spoken with none else than
Adam and Noah. But if you had under-
stood the mysteries of their narrations, you
would have known more than yoxx do at pre-
sent ; for I doubt not the least, but that they
have introduced you into the way of salvation.
W. S. Adam told me of a promise which
God had made unto him ; and according to
his account, it appeared that God had a spe-
cial design in the generation of Seth ; but it
appears from what Noah told me, that that
generation had so much degenerated from
their Maker, that God had determined, and
did destroy the world by a flood ; and imme-
diately after the flood, the generation of Noah
was so prone to evil that but few feared God
;
yet there was one called Abraham, of whom
old Noah had the most exalted opinion.
»S. C. How mysterious are the ways of
God!
WITH SIMON CLEOPHA.S. 109
W. S. But all this is not satisfactory.
S. C. True ; but you are yet too little in-
formed.
W. S. I would like to know the reason
why you are so sad and weep so much ?
S. C. There are two principal causes which
make me weep : the reflecting upon the dread-
ful destruction of this city, and the unright-
eous judgments upon the righteous, as causes
of this destruction ; hut especially the igno-
minious suffering and the cruel death of the
innocent Lamb. Should all this not make me
sad ? for men to crucify, so ignominiously,
him who never harmed any one. Yea, me-
thinks I see the nails in his hands. Nay, I
tell you a country ough.t wholly to sink into
ruin on account of this unrighteous transac-
tion.
W. S. But this is all mysterious to me. It
is my desire, father, that you tell me in order,
all what you know concerning it. I am com-
pletely confused in mind. I can as yet not
comprehend what you mean.
S. C. I will do it cheerfully ; but sorrow
seizes me so much, that it weakens my under-
standing ; and should it happen that I di-
gress, you will have to attribute it to mj
old age, and to that which is so affecting. I
will endeavour to confine myself as much to
chronological order as possible. I wish mj
tongue were like unto the pen of a ready
writer, that I mi^ht set before you th& whole
K
110 THÉ Wandering sohl
history of this matter, as I have seen it, heard
it, and read of it.
W. S. This is my heart's desire, and I
will listen to yon like a child desirous to
learn.
S. C. I will then begin with the most re-
mote period of time, as it is »et forth to us
in the Holy Scriptures, as well as by tradi-
tion and profane history ; and I will add what
took place in my own time ; and explain the
whole of it in detail, so that you may have a
useful and correct history of the whole. Abra-
ham, whom you saw walk mth Shem, moved
out of Syria at the command of God, 20
years after the death of Noah. (Gen. xii. 1.)
He went into the land in which you are
—
made his place of residence some place in the
country which you see lie before you. At
that time there was a city there called He-
bron, of which the old remains of a wall are
yet to be seea at this day. There was a plea-
sant grove called the grove of Mamre : there
it was where Abraham lived ; and as he was
faithful to God, he made a covenant with
him, that he would give him and his posteri-
ty all that country which you see around
us ; although he was but a sojourner therein,
having not a foot of land of his own, for all
those countries were inhabited and possessed
by different nations. This city, called Jeru-
salem, was then called Salem ; Melchisedek»
a royal person, was both king and priest of it
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. Ill
W. S. Oh! is this the city called Salem
!
Has it been thus laid waste ?
S. C. Yes, indeed, son, this is the same
Salem which was built by Melchisedek ;
however, it did not retain that name long,
but was afterwards called Jebus, and finally
Jerusalem ; for more than two thousand years
have elapsed since the first foundation of that
city was laid. But let us advert to Abraham
again, in order to come to the true history of
the matter. God made the promise unto
Abraham, through him and his posterity all
the nations of the earth were to be blessed.
(Gen. xii. 3.) Oh, son, remember w^ell of
what seed Adam made this known to you,
and why God preserved the posterity of Seth,
of Noah, and of Abraham ; namely, that he
would preserve a Uneage from the beginning
of creation until the present ; out of which
should be born He in whom all blessings
centre, and through whom God, in his love,
had determined to dispense his blessings unto
every nation upon earth.
W. S. Oh, the sovereign goodness of God
!
But has this all been fulfilled or accomplished?
S. C. I will tell you the whole ; but, in the
first place, you ought to know in what way
all this happened, so that you may both know
what befell this city and the cause of its
total destruction, and the fulfilling of the
promises of God. Twenty-five years after
this promise, contrary to every expectation,
112 THE WANDERING SUUL
God gave Abraham a son in his old age,
whom he called Isaac ; and to take away
every hope, he commanded Abraham that he
should offer his son Isaac as a burnt-sacrifice
upon the mountain which you see before us
(Gen. xxii. 2), surrounded by the old walls of
the ruined city ; but at that time there was
not a single house there, but it was a green
mountain called Moriah. But when God
saw that Abraham was obedient, and went to
work to offer his son, he forebade him, and
restored Isaac unto him ; as it were, took him
from death, renewed his covenant, and the
promises of the Saviour.
W. S. Had Abraham no other son ?
»S'. C. He had an elder son by his maid-
servant, Hagar, but she and her son were
sent away by the Divine command, Gen. xxi.
10, in which there is a great mystery, and a
greater one in remanding Isaac when Abra-
ham was about offering him. For when I
reflect on the sore trial of Abraham's faith,
the implicit obedience of Isaac, and the whole
circumstances of his carrying the wood upon
his shoulder, ascending the mountain, how
innocently he passed along, and his firm re-
liance upon God in the hour of dissolution^«
[ say, when reflecting upon these things, I
am constrained to admiration beyond degree,
and the more so, since I saw the fulfilment
of this mystery.
W^. Ä. Father, tell me more of Isaac-
IVITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 113
5^. C. This Isaac walked in the ways of
his father; was instructed in virtue. He
evinced a great degree of magnanimity when
persecuted and mocked of his brother Ish-
mael ; and when he was about to be offered
he submissively yielded : when he was be-
come to be a man, he was devout and strong
in the faith. He laid aside all earthly
things, and exercised much in prayer. His
father had, too, an exalted opinion of him, to
marry him to an unbelieving woman, and
therefore sent his servant to seek one for him
from among his own kindred, and wedded
him nnto her in the fear of God. Gen. xxiv. 2.
W. S. Had this youth no communion with
other young people of that day, and to fall
in love with some wealthy young woman,
and who was born of respectable parents,
residing in the same country with his father?
S. C. How could that be, since they were
but pilgrims and citizens of this world, al-
ways looking for another country, whither
faith unceasingly directed them; besides, he
was completely under and subject to the con-
trol of his father, that he suppressed the de-
sires of youth, following implicity the direc-
tions and counsels of his father.
W. S. A noble virtue, seldomly to be
found ; but I want to hear the end of it.
»S. C. In the land towards the rising of the
sun was in those days the city Nahor, where
resided a virtuous young woman, called Re-
k2
114 THE WANDERING SOUL
becca ; she lived with her brother Laban, a
descendant of Abraham; thither the afore-
mentioned servant was sent with ten camels,
provided with all the necessaries for his jour-
ney. Gen. xxiv. 10. The faithful servant
pursued his journey, ever mindful to execute
well his errand, knowing that without divine
aid all his efforts would be in vain ; he prayed
unto God that he would prosper him. Gen.
xxiv. 12-14. As he came to a well near the
above-mentioned city, behold, Rebecca came
and gave him and his camels to drink, Gen.
xxiv. 15; and, indeed, as though she knew
his errand, her heart, as well as Laban's,
was moved by the divine finger of Providence.
When he saw her come to the house with
bracelets on her arms, and with golden rings,
Gen. xxiv, 30, his heart leapt for joy—his
house and all he had was at the service of
this worthy messenger. When he under-
stood by whom he was sent, and what his
desire was, not a single objection was urged
against this marriage.
W. S. How vastly this differs from the
present usages—at present gayety and rich^
are only sought after.
5. C. This is true, and many serious con-
sequences result from this state of things,
«uch as hatred, strife ; and love to God, the
true bond of union, is disregarded
!
W. S. How did Isaac's father behave bim-
,40lf?
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 115
S. C. He committed all his concerns to
God; he prayed with fervent zeal to God
that His will alone might be done. And as
he lifted his eyes, he saw the camels come,
surrounded by a great company. Gen. xxiv.
63. It was in the evening when his worthy
bride came to his father's house. She was
received with great joy. The sorrowing for
his mother abated, and his love toward Re-
becca increased. The domestics cheerfully
obeyed the new mistress of the family. The
old father himself was filled with joy, to see
his son joined to such an amiable and virtu
ous young woman.
W. S. Had the old man any other children
but this one ?
5. C. Afterwards he had several others,
Gen. XXV. 2; yet Isaac was the only legiti-
mate heir, and received all the blessings, and
consequently the divine promise was to him,
which is of more worth than all the temporal
riches of this world ; he was more happy than
were Armatrydes the king of Assyria, Osiris
of Egypt, and the astronomer Atlas of that
day, all men of great renown. There were
other great men at that day, Shem, the son
of Noah, who was one of the happiest of his
day—^he was then about 900 years old, and
could relate of thousands and thousands of
things, as well of the antediluvian as of the
postdiluvian world.
W. S. I am well aware that the paternal
116 THE WANDERING SOUL
blessing is more to be preferred than mere
temporal things. Please to tell me who ob-
tained this blessing from Isaac ?
#S. C. Oh, son. much could be said. This
same Isaac had two sons, Esan to whom per-
tained this blessing, Gen. xxv. 26 ; but this
silly young man did not know how to esti-
mate this blessing, and sold his birthright to
his brother Jacob for a mess of pottage. Gen,
XXV. 19.
W. S. What folly I Had the young man
his proper understanding ?
iS. C. Yes ; he was like unto tliose who
will barter the things of time and sense for
heavenly things. How many do we see who
will, for a season, enjoy the perishable things
of time, in preference to those wdiich are of
everlasting durance ; for they think heavenly
things are at a distance, and they w^ill enjoy
those at hand, the things of the world.
W. S. But did not Esau repent of this
act?
»S. C. He did, but it was too late ; his re-
pentance was of no avail. I will tell you
the whole history of it. He endeavoured to
make void the transfer of his blessinof, and bv
unfair means to deprive Jacob of this bless-
ing; and had not Rebecca interfered, he would
have succeeded in it. For when Isaac's eyes
were dim on account of old age, and know-
ing nothing of this bartering or transferring
of blessing, he sent him out with his quiver
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 117
and his bow, to take him some venison, and
make him some savoury meat, and that on his
return he would bless him ; but in the mean
time Rebecca sent Jacob to Isaac, and he re-
ceived the blessing, though she accomplished
it by disguising Jacob; yet God, who is the
searcher of hearts, approved it, and thus the
blessing remained upon Jacob and his off-
spring. Gen. xxvii. 1-5. But, give heed, what
strange tilings took place. Scarcely had
Jacob received the blessing, and had with-
drawn, Esau came home with his venison,
and immediately perceived' that Jacob had
received the blessing. Gen. xxvii. 30. His
countenance was changed, his eyes sparkled,
his hands threatened, and his tongue uttered
vengeance against his brother, like another
Cain; and turned to his father, weeping, and
prayed him for a blessing. The aged father,
moved with compassion, comforted him with
temporal preferments in this w^orld ; but he
was deprived of the divine promises of the
future appearance of the Messiah, and other
glorious and precious blessings consequent
thereupon : then he only became sensible
what his mess of pottage cost him ; but all
his lamentation was of no avail—his weeping,
his sorrowing, and his looking heavenward,
were all fruitless ; the time was past—that,
which he had lost, was lost for ever—the die
was cast.
W. S. Oh, what a great lamentation—
118 THE WANDERING SOUL
what complaint! But how did he further
behave himself?
S. C. He behaved uncivilly—^he was daily-
out hunting ; his heart was filled with enmi-
ty against his brother—his vindictiveness
wa-3 often visibly to be perceived. Gen.
xxvii. 42. His two Canaanitish women did
not hold their peace—spoke frequently dis-
respectfully of his father and mother, and
caused tliem many sorrows. These old peo-
Ele saw daily his enmity increased towards
is brother, and they entreated Jacob most
fervently to leave his country, and go to the
east, to his uncle Laban. Gen. xxviii. 1. The
pious young man was obedient unto them,
and prepared for the journey, taking nothing
with him but his clothes and his staff.
W. S. This does not seem to agree with
the promised blessing of his father.
S. C. By all means it does. True, he tra-
velled through all that delightful and blessed
country, which abounded with fine trees,
such as figs, olive, and vineyards, fruitful and
verdant fields He saw cows, oxen, sheep,
goats, and all manner of cattle, feeding upon
the mountains. He saw rich farmers amuse
themselves in singing and dancing ; but he
was nothing else than a pilgrim, having no
abiding place.
W. S. Could this young man so accom-
modate himself to all these things without
being dejected in mind ?
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 119
S. C. Faith is powerful ;
yet he was not
without being tempted and tried ; but God
the Lord was with him, and consoled him in
a vision by night. Yonder, towards north,
is a town called Bethel, whither Jacob came
late in the evening, and laid his head upon
a stone. Gen. xxviii. 11, 12; and, although
this was a hard bed, his soul heard the
sweetest melody desirable, for he saw heaven
open, and a ladder standing which reached
to heaven, upon which he beheld the angels
of God descending and ascending, as if they
were ready to render him any service de-
sired ; showing thereby that divine undertak-
ings are sometimes changeable, although the
end thereof may be happy. Gen. xxviii. 12.
In the mean time he heard a voice assuring
him of the protection of the Most High, and
of all future blessings. Gen. xxviii. 13-15.
The young man awoke, was astonished that
the goodness of God was so remarkably dis-
played towards him in a country where dwelt
a savage and uncultivated people, letting
him see the presence and glory of God—to
him appeared all things holy ; the trees of
the forest, the herbs in the fields seemed to
bid him speed. The stone upon which he
had laid his head he erected as a holy monu-
ment of this vision ; he praised God and pur-
sued his journey with joy.
W. S. But how did Esau fare ?
iS. C. He did not seem to get along very
12Ö 1'HE WANDERING SOUL
well. Do you see that mountain top, south
of us?
W. S. I see it.
S. C. Thither went Esau with some of his
companions, living partly ujK)n game and
plunder; there he became a great lord, but he
ever was uneasy in his mind. He was depriv-
ed of the divine comfort; instead of having
angels for companions, as Jacob had, he had
uncircumcised companions, who lilled his
ears with cursing, swearing, and all manner
of wicked conversation. The contrast be-
tween the two brotliers was as great as the
difference between darkness and light.
W. S. You speak the truth, father; how-
ever, I would like to hear more of Jacob's
journey.
S. C. This God-fearmg son, w^ho was
strong in the faith, ultimately arrived at the
city of Haran, in Mesopotamia, Avhere w^as a
delightful well, whither all the shepherds
drove their cattle. Gen. xxiv. 1 , 2. He made up
his acquaintance with these, and inquired for
Laban ; scarcely had he began to speak, when
Rachel came with her sheep. Gen. xxix. 9.
You ought to have seen how this young man
was enamoured with this young and fair
damsel, his heart testifying that she was to
be his consort, of whom his parents had told
him ; and although he was much fatigued, he
showed a great willingness to assist his be-
loved in watering her sheep; he exhibited
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 121
his love for her by caressing her, and feeling
affectionately kind towards his mother's
brother's daughter. Gen. xxiv. 10. This in-
telligence was soon carried to the house of
Laban, who was also enkindled with love to-
wards him, and opened his house to this wel-
come guest; seemingly touched by the finger
of God to show himself kindly towards Jacob.
He had been there but a short time, when it
was proposed to Jacob, that he should re-
main seven years, and serve for this amiable
shepherdess. Whether this did not cause a
great deal of mutual satisfaction between
the two, I leave it for you to judge.
W. S. There is no stronger bond than love,
nor a sweeter joy than the mutual or recipro-
cal love of two wooers.
S. C. This was further manifested, for the
seven years appeared to Jacob to be but
seven days ; he did not feel the cold of nights,
nor did the heat of sun make him unwilling
;
he attended well to Laban's sheep ; and
passed many an hour in talk with his belov-
ed Rachel. He frequently entertained them
with history, of the origin of the fathers, the
blessings they inherited, and how pleasingly
he conversed with God on his journey ; and
he also told them of the great recompense of
faith. When we consider all things, how-
many a joyful hour did they not spend in the
open field, even when watching the sheep
—
they had many pastoral songs, and othes
XJ
122 THE WANDERING SOUL
rural music, praising God, making merry the
soul, and quickening the lieart, suppressing
every base desire. When the seven years
had expired, Jacob spoke of the wages of his
service. Gen. xxiv. 21. Laban, to show him
that he stood in favour with him, gave him
not only Rachel, but also his daughter Leah,
to be his housewives. The marriage feast
was held with joy ; and Jacob remained yet
fourteen years more with Laban, during
which time he had bom to him twelve sons,
who were afterwards called the twelve patri-
archs or sons of Jacob.
W. S. I should suppose many other things
took place in such a large family.
S. C. The tribulation this worthy man had
to experience on account of these children
would not be related in a short time ; even
Laban, his father-in-law, caused him consi-
derable trouble ;
yet the horror he experienced
on his return home, on account of his brother
Esau, exceeds every thing else.
W. S. I have a desire to hear that.
S. C. As this pious and blessed man tra-
velled the country quietly with his wives and
children, his cattle, in order to return home
to his father, whom he had not seen for twenty
years, there was sent unto him sad intel-
ligence. Behold, your brother Esau cometh
to meet you with four hundred well armed
men. Gen. xxxii. 6. This caused him a
great deal of fear, thinking that all is lost, he
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 123
will avenge liimself of me ; his wives and
children cried and trembled, and he expected
either to be slain, or be made a slave for ever.
Jacob took refuge in God, prayed to him for
his assistance, for of himself he was too weak.
He divided his wives and chiklren. in differ-
ent companies, also did he the same with his
cattle ; and with great meekness, ready to
offer his brother gifts. Gen. xxxix. 9-12,
and thus he proceeded on his journey with
anxiety of heart, withal in full reliance
upon the mercy of God ; and as he approach-
ed his brother Esau, who was well armed, he
bowed seven times towards the earth. Gen.
xxxiii. 3. Plis small company of women and
children made obeisance with great fear; at
that moment, Esau's andrer was chanj^ed.
Gen. xxxiii. 4; his heroes became as lambs,
their shields served to protect them from the
.sun, and their javelins and pikes served as
staves to lean upon, and seeing without as-
tonishment their chieftain advance, bowing,
and folding his arms around his brother's
neck and kissing him, as though he never
had any the least enmity against him. Jacob
and his family rejoiced with exceeding great
joy, thanking God, who controls the hearts
of the mighty, directing them as it seemeth
ffood unto him.
W. S. How joyfully they must have pur-
sued their journey, Jacob so richly blessed
with such a large family, having previously
124 THE WANDERING SOUL
been but poor ; how strong their faith
must not have grown when reflecting on this
miraculous display of God's goodness.
S. C. This you may readily imagine.
They travelled on, and came into the land
of Canaan, where he erected a tent at She-
chem. Gen. xxxiii. 18. What befell him on
account of his daughter Dinah, and how two
of liis sons fell upon a city and caused con-
siderable distress among the surrounding
nations ; this I do not intend to relate minute-
ly, for it makes me too pensive and dejected
to rehearse all the trials and difficulties of
this pious man. Gen. xxxiv. At that time,
another remarkable occurrence took place,
which exceeds every thing of its kind. How-
ever, it is advisable not to say any thing of
that at present, I am too infirm to relate all
now ; and it would be rather tedious for you
to listen to all.
W. S. I pray you, father, please tell me
that remarkable occurrence. As for myself
there is nothing so pleasing to me as your
discourse ; even for that purpose have I come
hither.
S, O. I can scarcely refrain from weeping;
for it is a history replete with mysteries.
W. S. You excite my curiosity still more
and more—I will pay the utmost attention.
S. C. It so happened that one of the twelve
sons of Jacob, called Joseph, an honest, up-
right person, quite handsome, was hated
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 125
and despised of his brothers—with exceeding
hatred did they oppose him. Whether he
would meet in a friendly manner, speak kind
to them, or serve them willingly, all this did
not move them to have compassion on him.
Gen. xxxvii. 4.
W. S. Hardened wretches ! but had they
no reason for this, their conduct towards
him ?
S. C. What reason could such an agreea-
ble young man give them? But hatred is
cruel. They saw^ that his father loved him
kindly and affectionately, being the very
image of his mother Rachel ; his father there-
fore made him a coat of many colours. Gen.
xxxvii. 3 : this is what they were sorely dis-
pleased at, especially the children of Leah,
namely, Bilhah and Zilpah, Gen. xxxvii. 2,
hated him ; this Joseph told his father, and
thus their hatred increased towards him so
much that they could not bear to see him.
As the father saw their hatred increase, he
loved Joseph more and more affectionately,
on account of his virtuous and honest dispo-
sition. This might have been overlooked,
had not other circumstances stirred up their
anger anew.
W. S. And what were these ?
S. C. You ought to bear in mind, that
God had intended to do great things by Jo-
seph, as it is generally the case that he ex-
alts the humble ; and God made this known
l2
126 THE WANDERING SOUL
unto him in two dreams, which Joseph re-
lated unsuspectingly to his brothers. It ap-
peared to him in a dream that they were
all in one field together binding sheaves, and
that his sheaves stood straight up, and all
theirs made obeisance to his. The other
dream was, that the sun, moon, and eleven
stars bowed before him. As they heard
these things, they became exceedingly wrath.
(Gen. xxxvii. 5, 8. ) It appears that they knew
of themselves that these dreams were not
mere phantasma ; however, they immediately
determined to prevent their fulfilment ; but
the Most High laughed at them. Father
Jacob looked upon these dreams as propheti-
cal He waited for their fulfilment.
TF. S. But how did things further go ?
S. C, Astonishing ! the wonders are many
and great. It so happened that these bro-
thers, while keeping their fl.ocks, moved away
a considerable distance to pasture their cat-
tle; and their father was desirous to hear
from them. He sent Joseph to visit his
brothers ; he lost hinaself upon the way in a
field, and looked ail around to see his brothers
with their cattle; his heart felt for their
prosperity. But oh ! with them a different
feeling prevailed ; for as he came near to them,
instead of rejoicing to see him, they were
highly incensed against him, and thought
on his dreams. They consulted each other
whaX to do with him. One was for casting
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 127
him into a pit; the other for murdering him
;
another, filled with compassion, felt in be-
half of his brother, expostulating- with the rest
not to deal so rashly and cruelly with him.
Reuben, thf, oldest of them, trembled with
fear, thinking what a great sin it would be
to slay their brother, and bring the aged fa-
ther in sorrow to his grave. In the mean
time the innocent lad approached to salute
them with greetings from their father. He
showed himself exceedingly kind and amia-
ble towards his brothers; and as he antici-
pated to bring them acceptable intelligence,
he was astonished to hear nothing but threat-
enings ; he began to tremble, for the terrors
of death had laid hold upon him. One ac-
cused him ; another threatened to kill him.
Well might this amiable young man say, I
have become as a stranger to my brothers, and
am not esteemed as my mother's son. He
begged for mercy ; but all his crying, lamen-
tation, and begging were fruitless. They
stripped him of his coat of many colours.
which his father gave as a token of his love
txDward him. In the greatest agony of soul,
he looked around to see whether he could not
behold one that would have mercy upon Jiim.
but he found none ; for those who beheld his
situation with compassion dared not make
any efforts to release him ; he was like a stray
dove persecuted of eagles. His heart failc^d
him ; his soul siglied for fear ; he locked for
128 THE WANDERING SOtJL
relief. At last Renben hit upon an expedi-
ent to ameliorate his condition. He prevail-
ed upon these unmerciful brothers, that they
consented to cast Joseph into a dry pit : his
intention was aftervv^ards to take him out of
it and restore him to his father : then the up-
roar became somewhat quieted, and they sat
down to eat, and put Joseph into a deep pit
;
here he sighed to see liis father's face. Oft
did he think on his father ; the many plea-
sant hours he spent in his presence, of which
he was then deprived, as well as of every
other human consolation. And what was
still more remarkable, it appeared that all
had been frustrated what was intended to be
set forth by God in Joseph's dreams. You
may easily imagine hov/ he cried unto God
the Most High, ^'
God, be thou nigh unto
me, for here is no helper ! My enemies are
for devouring me; they are as devouring
lions. They have parted my clothes among
them. Lord, Lord ! be nigh unto me; hasten
to help me!" Thus praying, weeping, and
complaining, and none to comfort, his dis-
tracted mind baffled him as a ship in storm
without rudder, calling, " My God, my God!
how hast thou forsaken me ! I cry aloud, but
m.y help is afar off."
W. S. Oh, what overwhelming fear ! it
leads the soul to God, its creator and helper,
in every time of need. But tell me how
did his brothers behave in the mean time
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 129
Had they no compassion upon this innocent
lamb?
S. C. Several of them had, especially Reu-
ben ; he did all he could to release his brother
;
he reasoned with them, what effect their con-
duct would have on a distressed and aged
parent, and that they would incur a curse
rather than obtain a blessing by this course
of conduct; for if their father disapproved
their conduct towards the Shechemites,
how could he meet such a distressful event
without much sorrowing. Another rose up
and said, " he is w^orthy of death, for he made
himself kingr ; and should he ever Qret into
power, what, think you, will be our fate ?
therefore it is more meet that he die, than that
we and ours should be destroyed." Others,
again, who were filled with hatred, cried out,
'•
he is the cause of all the disputes and broils
in our family ; he carries every thing to the
old man's ears, who is often displeased at us
on his account. The.better course will be to
destroy him, then we will see wdiat his dreams
come to, which he has so presumptuously
made known, and even deceived his old fa-
ther thereby." The greater part of them was
so much incensed that they were deprived
of every sense of compassionate feeling.
W. S. How did this matter finally termi-
nate, and what did Reuben do ?
S. C. He withdrew from them with the
determined resolution to assist his brother in
130 THE WANDERING SOUL
effecting his escape, but he was foiled in this
undertaking.
W. S. This was to be regretted : still I
would like to 'hear the end of the story.
S. C. Oh, son, the ways of the Lord are
beyond our comprehension. While intense-
ly engaged in counselling what the fate of
their brother should be, one of them, Judas,
looked up and beheld some merchants com-
ing on their way to Egypt, Gen. xxxvii. 26;
at that moment he concluded that it would
be far better to sell their brother to these
merchantmen, vvdio would take him into a
foreign country, than to pollute their hands
in their brother's blood. Gen. xxxvii. 26, 27.
Thus his dreams would prove to be equally
false if he were carried into a foreig-n land,
where he would be entirely forgotten, and be
placed into very indigent circumstances.
All paid attention to this proposition. They
went to the pit to take him out. Joseph
heard the voice of his enraged brothers.
Thinking that the hour was at hand when
he should fall a victim to their vengeance,
he complained most anguishingly ; and after
he had been taken out, he was compelled to
walk to the aforementioned merchants : there
he stood before them as a pitiable object, with
different feelings than those when he was in
his dear father's presence. Tears flowed
down his pallid cheeks ; his heart quaked ;
his clothes tattered and filthy, showed that he
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 131
was shamefully maltreated ; and his brothers,
shaking their heads at him, saying, away
with him ! away with him ! and thus, at the
suggestion of Judas, they agreed to sell him
for twenty pieces of silver.
W. S. Father, you are weeping again ;
take more courage, and proceed with your
narration.
S. C. Oh, I am thinking of another Judas,
who sold an innocent person ; the history of
whom I shall not relate at the present.
W. S. Proceed, if you please.
iS. C. I say for twenty pieces of silver did
they sell this fine young man, Gen. xxxvii.
28, who was more to be esteemed than they
all. Joseph, with much sorrow and heavi-
ness of heart, left them. Oft did he think of
his brothers, of his home, and of his dear
father, who could now afford him no comfort.
W. S. But what of Reuben, who had with-
drawn himself from them before ?
»S. C. The faithful brother went to the pit
with the expectation to find Joseph there, and
to help him out of it; but, alas, he found a dif-
ferent state of things. Weeping and sighing
was his portion ; he rent his clothes; went
as one without hope to his brothers, saying.
"The young man is not here, and I, whither
shall I go ! Gen. xxxviii. 29, 30. How dare
I show my face to my father ! What apolo-
gy shall I make, when he shall ask me con-
cerning Joseph ? Methinks I see his pale and
132 THE WANDERING SOUL
sad countenance ; the sorrow of his heart
threatening him with the grave. How joy-
fully I should have returned home, could 1
have taken Joseph with me to a disconsolate
father ; but now all my prospects are blast-
ed ; I cannot see my way clear ; my own
conscience accuses me of unfaithfulness ; I
know not whither to turn ; I will have to for-
sake father, mother, brothers, sisters, wife,
and children ; nay, all things, and have to
go into a strange country ; if I do not find
Joseph, to return home will be to me an
abomination." While thus speaking, he wept
a gush of tears. All his brothers were affect-
ed v/ith him, and were sorely distressed on
account of their father. Their hearts beat
within them on account of this act ;
yet all
their lamenting and weeping was fruitless.
They might anxiously look after him, but
departed he had. Some expedient was now
to be resorted to that would screen them of
this shameful deed, and to reconcile their fa-
ther, when he should inquire for Joseph his
son ; expecting him to return with good news
from his brothers.
W. S. What must not have been the dis-
tressing feelings of the old man, when he had
been thus deprived of his son ! But what
did they tell their father ?
.S. C. They killed a kid, and dipped Jo-
seph's coat into the blood, and sent the coat
of many colours to their father, and told him,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 133
behold, is this thy son's coat? thus we have
found it in the field. Gen. xxxvii. 30, 31.
W. S. Oh,thetreachery,thus to deceive their
father ! But what did they accomplish by this ?
S. C. The father's fears and anxiety of
mind are not to be described or uttered by
words. He wrung his hands; he plucked out
his own hair; he rent his clothes and put
sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned plaint-
ively for his son many days. " An evil beast
has devoured my son Joseph. Gen. xxxvii.
33. The comfort of my age is no more ! For
I will go down into the grave to my son,
sorrowing ; for I am not able to express my
anguish of soul." His children were for com-
forting him, but all was in vain. He looked
upon them with a jealous eye ; he only cared
for Joseph ; his desire was to see him ; no-
thing in this world could afford him any con-
solation, because he was deprived of his be-
loved son. Gen. xxxvii. 35.
W. S. How did these brothers behave after
having- committed this great sin?
S. C. They found themselves deceived, for
they had an accusing conscience ; they ho,d
to hear their aged father complain daily, and
the whole family was sad, and lamented the
death of Joseph ; besides, they were constant-
ly in fear, lest their deception might be reveal-
ed or made known to thei r father. Hatred had
consumed the bowels of their compassion,
and troubled them daily, which was more
M
134 THE WANDERING SOUL
cruel than the fangs of the four-footed ani-
mal which was said to have devoured Joseph.
Misfortunes and calamities befell them. They
were menaced by retributive and punitive
justice. The two sons of Judas who sold him
died. Gen. xxxviii. 7-10. And God con-
vinced him how he had erred in pronounc-
ing judgment, v/hen he condemned his son's
wife for an act of which he was guilty him-
self Gen. xxxviii. 24-26. The others had
much to do to keep these lies concealed. Oh,
how often did their consciences trouble them
when they saw their father sorrowing. How ,
often did they wish to see Joseph once more,
and to restore him to his father. But it was
too late now. They had to endure the sting
of conscience in their breasts.
W. S. Wickedness recompenses its own
masters. But be pleased to tell me what
happened to Joseph when he arrived in
Egypt v/ith the merchants ?
S. C. It w^as remarkable. These mer-
chants brought him into the royal city, call-
ed Memphis. There was a mighty ruler,
called Potiphar. He took particular notice
of Joseph, who was exceedingly polite and
genteel in his deportment, of amiable man-
ners and a virtuous mind, and purchased
him ; Gen. xxxix. 1 ; and esteemed him not
as a valuable servant, but regarded him as
his adopted son ; and as he became more and
more acquainted with his fidelity, he com-
Joseph sold by his Brethrefi,—pag. 134,
AVITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 135
mitted every thing to his charge, so that
Joseph was considerably more esteemed and
regarded than in his father's own house. He
Kved well, had respectable company, and
an excellent house to live in, was an able
economist, every one respected him, friendly
co'mmunications passed daily, and he had
much leisure to visit the fields and the royal
places which were in that country. This all
was calculated to blunt the keen desires for
his father's house. His envious brothers
could not rob him of this enjoyment, nor
could they in the least mar his peace.
W. S. This appears to have been the ful-
filment of his dreams.
S. C. By no means There were pending
over his head many severe trials and diffi-
culties. True, God desired to promote him
;
but in no other way than through much tribu-
lation, of which I have to relate you a high-
ly interesting story, although a very painful
one to him. And were I to relate the whole
of it, you would become weary, and time
would fail me,
W. S. Touching my ownself, I should in-
deed like to hear the whole of the history.
S. C. In the midst of sunshine and pros-
perity a tempestuous storm of adversity
arose, threatening the destruction of this
young man. His mistress, who was not a very
virtuous woman, was enamoured with Joseph.
Gen. xxxvii. 7. The fire of her love in-
136 THE WANDERING SOUL
creased daily towards him. Oh, had it been
spiritual love, it would have been promo-
tive of his happiness ; but hers was carnal
love, illicit love, as she gave him fully to un-
derstand. The young man was not of her
disposition ; he was alarmed and feared.
The fear of God permitted him not to yield
to her desires, and openly to rebuke her did
not seem to him to be the best method. He
kept all this to himself for a season ; but as
her illicit passions became more ardent, and
she insisting upon what was unlawful, he
then undertook to reason the case with her,
endeavouring to persuade her to suppress
her passions. He told her of her husband's
virtue and fidelity, whose confidence he en-
joyed, and that it would be very unbecoming
in him to do such an act ; thus rewarding
his past favour by one of the blackest and
foulest acts that man can be guilty of, not to
speak of the heinousness of such a flagrant
sin as that of adultery in the eyes of God.
This discourse was only as pitch in a fire,
for virtue and beauty are two powerful mag-
nets. Her love was the more enkindled ; she
pestered him daily, and tempted him with
many promises of riches and honour. It
was to him as though one had taken him on
the summit of a mountain, and showed all
the riches of this world, in order to lead him
from the paths of virtue.
W. S. These thoughts distract you. Do
WITH SIMON ^LEOPHAS. 137
refrain from weeping, and proceed with your
narrative.
»S. C. I will proceed. But when Joseph
saw that she was daily more inflamed towards
him, he fled to avoid her presence as much
as possible. This enraged her exceedingly;
for she was so completely captivated by his
beauty. Her mind was completely taken up
on that account. Ultimately she resolved to
make the last and successful effort. She
watched an opportuiiity when the young
man should enter the house to transact his
daily concerns. As he came in she laid hold
upon him, and desired him to accompany her
to the chamber- But this was attempting an
impregnable wall. This attempt appeared
to him too odious ; he fled, and she held his
garment in her hand. Gen. xxxix. 11, 12.
That very moment this syren lure changed
the tone of her voice into that of a cruel
harpy ; her eyes flamed like fire ; her hands
threatened, and she raised a wonderful cry
and alarm. The hireling, the maid, and the
domestics, knew not what had taken place.
They came running ; found her madly en-
raged, with Joseph's garment in her hand ;
complaining much concerning the violence
of the Hebrew servant, whom her husband
had so highly exalted, to the disturbance of
the peace and comfort of the family. Gen.
xxxix. 13-15. Every one was astonished.
Joseph was immediately apprehended. Wheii
m2
138 THE WANDERING SOUL
his lord and master came home, his wife shed
crocodile tears, complaining concerning Jo-
seph's rude assault ; to corroborate her charge,
she produced the garment. Gen. xxxix. 17,
18. This enraged the good lord of the
house ; he reproved Joseph of ingratitude and
shameful conduct towards his wife. Almost
had he determined to have him executed;
but when reflecting on the signal blessings
his house experienced under the charge of
Joseph, and thinking on his services and his
manful deportment, he determined only to
put him into prison. Gen. xxxix. 20. Into
prison Joseph was cast, and his feet placed
into the stocks. Before that he was at hber-
ty and much honoured.
W. S. It is remarkable that falsehoods
sometimes wear the appearance of plausibili-
ty. What an astonishing change. Were
not many enraged at this ?
S. C. Certainly. This report was soon
throughout the whole city ; evq^ry one spoke
of it : some shook their heads and said,
shameful ! you faithless wretch, now you are
receiving the recompense of your wicked
and daring presumption. Others said, be-
hold he is now confined ; others he helped
out of their bonds, let him help himself now
;
or let him make known his case to his God,
of whom he boasted so much, and entreat
liim to open the bars and locks of the prison
for him. Some had compassion on him,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 139
knowing that the woman w^as a frivolous and
imprudent woman; but through fear they
were prevented to make known their views
of this matter.
W. S. But, please tell me, how did Joseph
conduct himself in this critical condition ?
S. C. He directed his eyes towards heaven,
crying, O, Lord, my hope is in thee ; deliver
me from all my persecutors, so that they de-
vour me not as lions ; take my case into thy
hands ; deliver my soul from the sword, and
my life from dogs. God, in whom he had
pluced his trust, forsook him not, but show-
ed unto him his goodness. For the keeper
of the prison was convinced, from the deport-
ment and conduct of Joseph, that he was a
virtuous young man, and he released him
from the stocks and committed the prisoners
to his charge, provided he would remain
within the enclosure of the prison. Gen.
xxxix. 21-23.
W. S. Did he remain long m this condi-
tion ?
S. C. Who knows whether he would have
ever been released, had it not been done
through a singular occurrence so ordained by
the providence of God ? Two, Avho were in
the service of the king, were cast into prison
on account of misconduct; the one was a
baker and the other a butler. It happened
that both dreamed dreams, which gave them
considerable alarm; the more so, because
140 THE WANDERING SOUL
they knew of no interpreter. The pious
youth, ever ready to comfort the distressed,
inquired of them why their faces were so
pale. Gen. xl. 4-7. The butler disclosed
the whole matter unto him ; related his
dream, saying, "Behold, a vine was before
me; and in the vine were three branches,
and it was as though it budded, and her blos-
soms shot forth, and tlie clusters bare ripe
grapes ; and I took the grapes and pressed
them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup
into Pharaoh's hand." Joseph, who was
filled with the wisdom of God, interpreted it
thus—that the butler w^ould be released in
three days and restored to his former office,
a.nd requested him to make mention of him
to Pharaoh. Gen. xl. 14. The baker, un-
derstanding this reasonable interpretation,
also related his dream, and looked steadfastly
upon Joseph, who foretold him an ignomini-
ous death, bj^ hanging, in three days : all was
fulfilled.
W. S. Behold, how good it is to be in fa-
vour with great men; for I am of the opinion
that Joseph was released through the inter-
cession of the butler.
S. C. By no means. Do you not know
that we are not to put our trust in man ; and
especially in those who live in sinful plea-
sures. The mind and affections of this butler
were engaged in riotous living, and he nisver
remembered poor Joseph, nor did he think
WITH SIMON CLEOPHA.S. 141
on those in misery ; but God, who directs all
things according to the counsel of his will,
heard the sighs of Joseph in prison, and
knew how to devise means, and also a method
to release Joseph.
W. S. I desire to hear it.
»S. C. In the same hour when they were
rejoicing, singing, and dancing, engaged in
eating and drinking, and the butler attend-
ing to his office, and Joseph sighing and
waiting in prison for two years to hear from
the ungrateful butler ; thirteen years having
already elapsed since the old man sorrowed
for the death of his son—behold, king Pha-
raoh's heart failed him ; he was frightened
in the night, that he trembled as an aspen
leaf, caused by strange and fearful dreams
;
and there was none to be found in all the
land of Egypt, among the wise and learned
astrologers, who could interpret his dream.
They stood as children, and beheld the dis-
consolate king. His whole court was alarm-
ed : all their music ceased ; nothing but sad
countenances were to be seen. The chief
butler now began to reflect, and remembered
Joseph, and told the king of this Hebrew
youth, how he had interpreted one of his
dreams. Joseph was immediately brought
out of the prison, and costly raiment put on
him, and brought before the king, who re-
lated his dreams unto him. As he thought,
there were seven fat kine came up from the
•
\
142 THE WANDERING SOUL
water ; afterwards seven lean kine, which
devoured the fat ones, without it being per-
ceived at their appearance. The other dream
was concerning seven fine and full ears of
corn, which were in like manner devoured
by seven illy-filled ears. Joseph, giving the
honour to God, expounded the dreams, say-
ing, they had allusion to seven plentiful years,
which would be succeeded by seven barren
years, causing such a general famine that all
would be eaten up of the seven former fruit-
ful years ; and that it w^ould be highly expe-
dient to appoint some wise, judicious indi-
vidual to lay up stores of produce, so that the
people would not perish in the seven years
of famine. Gen. xli. 36. The king and his
council were astonished at this wise interpre-
tation, and the good advice he gave ; and after
considerable consultation, they came to the
concbision that Joseph was the only suitable
person to hold this station. Whereupon the
king took the ring oif from his owm finger
and put it on Joseph's, and dressed him in
purple linen, and put a golden chain upon
his neck, and had him ride in his second cha
riot, and had them all proclaimed aloud,
this is the ruler of all Egypt ; and thus Jo-
seph was proclaimed ruler over all Egypt.
Gen. xh. 49.
W. S. Oh, the great wisdom of God ; and
the wonderful change !
!
»S. C. There were many collected before
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 143
him, every one was astonished, his enemies
trembled and prayed, fearing to receive the
just recompense of their treachery. The
common people shouted, and rejoiced to see
Zapiinath-paaneaii (for so they called him)
promoted to this exalted station, and all bow-
ed their knees before him ; and they were as-
tonished still more when they saw the foun-
dations laid for the storehouses, into which
to collect all the superabundant produce of
the land. Even some of the oldest thought
it incredible that the river Nile should thus
irrigate the land for seven years in succes-
sion, and with the gentle beams of the sun
so much enrich the land as to make it super-
abundantly productive ; many rejoiced in an-
ticipation of this event, every one expecting
to become rich. The mechanic did eat com-
mon bread ; nay, the poorest of them began
to live in luxury. It was pleasant to the
eyes to behold the verdant meadows, in
which the cattle fed, and all of very fine ap-
pearance, even as Pharaoh saw them in his
dream. It appeared ridiculous to some that
Joseph should collect so much grain, when
every thing grew in rich abundance. How-
ever, they were ignorant of the counsel of
God.
W. S. But what took place when these
years of plenty were ended?
S. C. In the first year, they saw that the
waters in the Nile were considerably abated,
144 THE WANDERING SOUL
because there was but little rain or snow on
the mountains, to swell the waters of the
Nile; and the heat of the sun became exceed-
ingly intense, parching and drying up all
before his rays ; the cattle w^ere seeking grass
and w^ater, and the farmer had no harvest to
put up ;
yet all this was little regarded at
first, because they could live upon what they
had left from the former year. But the next
year they were more sorely pressed, there
was nothing to be seen but sorrowful mothers
and weeping children on account of hunger,
which troubled them; it was a lamentable
sight to behold—what crying and lamenta-
tion. Oh, how often did they look towards
the south to see a cloud rise, and went fre-
quently to see whether the waters of the
Nile v^^ere not increasing, then flowing only
in a small rivulet, scarcely water sufficient for
the crocodile and the fishes thereof Then
Joseph, as a wise father, opened the store-
houses, and gave each according to his wants,
who had money to purchase, and thus he
enriched the king exceedingly.
W. S. That was a necessary consequence.
But did this famine extend to other adjacent
countries?
S. C. Yes, and especially throughout the
land of Canaan, lying in the same climate,
and which was watered by the former and
latter rain; there the heavens were as brass,
and the earth as iron ; the people beheld each
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 14Ö
other in sorrow, for there was no store laid
up, and the fields appeared as a barren
waste.
W. S. It is lamentable to hear it related.
But was it not generally known that corn
could be obtained in Egypt ?
S. C. Certainly it was ; for they saw camels
and asses pass daily through the country,
laden with corn sacks, which they had ob-
tained from Zaphnath-paaneah, whose wis-
dom was spoken of by every nation, and who
sent corn abroad to the comfort of the starv-
ing. A remarkable history has just occur-
red to my mind, in which the prophecy of
the aforementioned dreams has been strik-
ingly fulfilled.
W. S. I am exceedingly anxious to hear
that; I pray you, relate it.
S. C. It came to pass, that Joseph's
brothers, their waives and their children, had to
suffer for the w^ant of corn ; and were admo-
nished by their father when he saw that
there was corn in Egypt, that they should
go down thither; and they went upon their
way ^vith their asses and their sacks, and
when they arrived in the royal city, they ap-
plied to the ruler of that country to obtain
corn for their money.
W. S. What a providential direction ! ß at
what happened ?
S. C. They appeared before the lord, sit-
ting upon his throne, and surrounded by a
N
146 THE WANDERING SOUL
reverent looking counsel. When they be-
held this giorj^, they fell upon their faces be-
fore him, Gen. xlii. 6, and these were the
sheaves which made obeisance to Joseph's
sheaves in the dream.
W. S. Thus they confirmed the truth of
the dream, and knew it not, and did willing-
ly that which they were determined on be-
fore to frustrate. Oh, the wisdom of God !
how incomprehensible ! But how did Jo-
seph behave himself towards them ?
S. C. He knev/ them well, yet he made
himself strange unto them, in order to test
them severely, for they well deserved it. Gen.
xlii. 7-9. He spoke roughly unto them,
and called them spies ; however, they gave
him an account of their families, told him of
their aged father, the number of brothers
—
that the youngest was with their father, and
that one was no more. Gen. xliii. 13: al-
though they stood before him, they knew
him not ; nor had they the least idea that he
was their supposed lost brother, but now
newly arisen, and that was so highly exalted.
What deceived them still more, Joseph had
an interpreter, as if he could not understand
what they said among themselves.
W. S. That was very judiciously managed
on the part of Joseph, evincing a great deal
of lenity and wisdom, that he did not reward
them according to their merits.
S. C. In him there was not the least dis-
\V1TH SIMON CLEOPHAS, 147
position to avenge himself, but he had a ten-
der compassion towards tiiem ; lie sighed and
wept with them, thinking on all what had
taken place between him and them in by-gone
days. He showed them every mark of kind-
ness, had their sacks filled wdth corn, and
put their money in the mouth of the sacks,
Gen. xlii. 25 ;
yet, to prove their honesty,
and to remind them of their misdeeds, he
ordered Simeon to be bound in their pre-
sence, Gen. xlii. 23, and to keep him safe till
they had brought their youngest brother,
Benjamin, before him; nay, he threatened to
confine all of them if they would resist. This
pricked them to the heart; their consciences
gnawed them, and they accused each other;
this is what we merited, when w*e saw our
brother Joseph in anguish of soul, and had
no pity on him. Reuben said, " Spake I not
unto you, do not this sin against him ; and
ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also
his blood is required." Gen. xlii. 22. Whe-
ther this did not touch the heart of Joseph,
who knew the whole matter, I leave for you
to judge.
W. S. Father, I readily believe that this
Simeon lamented with deep contrition all his
cruelty when confined in the dark prison.
But what took place on their journey home-
wards?
S. C. They had much conversation on
what had taken place, and were much asto-
148 THE WANDERING SOUL
nished, especially when they found their mo-
ney in their sacks ; for they knew not what
this meant, Gen. xlii. 27, 28 ; and when they
came home to their father, he was much af-
flicted, because he did not see Simeon, and
much more so, when they told him that they
dare not again appear in the presence of the
ruler of Egypt, unless they bring their young-
est brother with them. Gen. xlii. 30. The old
father nearly fainted, thinking that he should
be thus deprived of his children ; he said, " Me
have you bereaved of my children : Joseph
is not, and Simeon is not, and you will take
Benjamin away : all these things are against
me." Gen. xlii. 36.
W. S. I pity the old patriach who had to
suffer so much on account of his children.
But how did it further go?
S. C. When they had eaten nearly all
their corn, the old man was not to be pre-
vailed on to leave his youngest son go. One
offered to stand for his safety, another was
for pledging his children for his safe return,
but all availed not ; the father was so much
troubled that he could put no confidence in
them ; at last he was constrain-ed to consent
on account of the famine—and they started
with Benjamin, and some presents for the
lord of the land.
W. S. Thus we see that necessity knows
of no law, breaking the most determined
resolution of man
!
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 149
5. C. They appeared before Joseph, Gen.
xhii. 15, who received them gladly; he look-
ed upon his brother Benjamin—they all
prostrated themselves, and thus were verified
the dreams of Joseph. He ordered an excel-
lent dinner for them. Gen. xliii. 16; this
caused theiii to wonder greatly, especially
when they were seated around the table in
the order" of their ages, and that Benjamin
was served with a larger portion than the
rest. They were eating, drinking, and re-
joicing; but on the day following, they were
exceedingly dismayed ; for Joseph had their
sacks filled with corn, and also put their mo-
ney therein ; and put his silver cup into Ben-
jamin's sack to test their honesty. Gen. xliv.
1,2; they Icnowing nothing of all this, pur-
sued their journey rejoicing, with the full
hope of returning the son to his father, and
thus all would be well again. They boasted
much of the hospitality of the ruler^ and how
gracious they were with him; but with as-
tonishment did they see one of the stewards
coming mounted on a steed, crying, Stop,
you men, you have committed some evil
thing, you have stolen my Lord's cup, you
have rewarded evil for good. Gen. xliv. 5, 6.
When the steward had overtaken them, they
defended themselves, saying. This be far from
us—with w^homsoever of thy servants it be
found, both let him die, and we also will be
my lord's bond-men. Gen. xliv. 7-9. So
n2
'
150 THE WANDERING SOUL
«
confident were they in their minds, an exami-
nation was entered into, and the cnp was
found in Benjamin's sack. Gen. xliv. 12.
Then they wept and rent their clothes, say-
ing, we have fallen upon evil times. They
were then taken back, and brought before
Joseph, who reproved them, saying, ''What
deed is this you have done? did you not
know that such a man as I can certainly di-
vine," Gen. xliv. 15 ; and he was for retaining
Benjamin as a servant; they stood amazed
—
they were horror-stricken. Judah set forth
in glowing colours the distress of their father,
saying, that if he were not to get to see Ben-
jamin he would die, shedding tears and of-
fering himself as a hostage ; the other brothers
trembled for fear, and did not know what to
do ; for them to remain was net possible, and
to return home without Benjamin was alike
impossible, on account of their father's sor-
rowing.
W. S. But tell me, how could such a com-
passionate man as Joseph look upon the dis-
tress and the anguish of his brothers' souls,
and not have pity upon them ?
S. C. Until then he was only testing their
sincerity, but now he could keep himself no
longer concealed; he commanded all to leave
the room, then wept aloud and shed many
tears, saying, I am Joseph ; doth my father
yet live ? And they could not answer him
;
for they were troubled at his presence. Gen.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 151
xlv. 1-3. He said to them, Come near to me,
your brother Joseph Mhom you sold into
Egypt; and they rejoiced as though they
had found one risen from the dead. My
thoughts digress, and I am led away to think
of another similar history, but I must collect
my mind a little. Joseph spoke friendly to
them and comforted them, telling them not
to be alarmed, for he had forgotten their
treatment towards him, Gen. xlv. 5 ; he bid
them to return home to their father, and tell
him that it was his desire they should all
move down into Egypt, and escape the famine
of five coming years ; telling them that it was
God who had by this means, and for the pur-
pose of preserving many alive, brought him
into Egypt. And he sent them home with
many presents, chariots, and servants.
W. S. What an affecting history ! and
how did it go with the father ?
S. C. At first, when he heard the unex-
pected glad tidings, he could scarcely credit
it, Gen. xlv. 26, for the death of his son was
so lastingly impressed upon his mind, that
the account they gave of Joseph appeared
to him to be but a dream or some delusion
;
but wdien he saw the chariots which Joseph
had sent to carry him down to Egypt, his
spirit revived, and said,- It is enough, I am
satisfied; Joseph my son is yet alive, I
will go and see him before I die. Gen. xlv.
27, 28. The whole family, men, women,
152 THE WANDERING SOUL
and children, seventy souls in all, with a
great many cattle, which filled the air with
noise, were all brought together. Gen. xlvi.
1. Joseph, exceedingly anxious to see his
father, had his chariot in readiness, and, in
company with some of his counsellors, went
up to meet Israel, his father, at Goshen,
There was much weeping when he met him
—he fell on his father's neck and wept a good
w-hile. He took them all and put them into a
good part of the country in Egypt. The pious
patriarch appeared before king Pharaoh,
with whom he found grace, and related to
him his past life, his age, and all connected
with it. Gen. xlvii. 7-10, and took up his re-
sidence joyfully among that people, where
he yet lived seventeen years, contemplating
the past events of his da3^s, and acknowledgr
ed the wonderful dealings of God ; and felt
much anxiety of soul for his children, admo^
nishing them in love, with paternal aifection,
and blessed them on his dying bed, begin-
ning with Ephraim and Manasseh, the sons
of Joseph, Gen. xlviii. 14, 15, telling them all,
and especially Judah, that the sceptre would
not depart from him and his brothers till the
SiyLOH come, who is the seed of the woman
promised unto the fathers. It was thus that
the tribe of Israel came into Egypt agreea^
bly to the prophecy concerning the sons of
Jacob. Gen. xlix.
W. S This narration pleases me exce,ed
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 153
ingly; for it is a history replete with won-
ders. However, I would be much pleased to
hear what took place during the other five
years' famine. It is probable that the people
suffered considerably.
S.C. Their sufferings are not to be utter-
ed or described. O, the distress of famine ; all
Egypt, Thebaides, Lybia, Cyrene, and Ethi-
opia were as a barren desert; lamentation
and weeping filled the land. The bright
sun, with his genial rays, was terror unto
them; the lucid stars adorning the heavens
seemed as enemies ; they would have sooner
seen them shrouded by the thick clouds of
darkness and storm, than to behold their
glorious splendour; they desired for the ter-
rible thunders, and hurricanes, and tempest-
uous rains which often destroyed houses,
wrecked ships, and tore up trees by their
roots ; but one barren year succeeded another
still more barren, without rain, leaving no
hope of plentiful seasons; their misery in-
creased as their days passed on. What w^as
laid up in store they had consumed—they
sold their cattle and brought their money
unto Joseph, entreating him most earnestly
not to suffer them to perish for hunger's
sake. Every one being thus in distress, all
was soon consumed, and there was no em-
ployment for them, to labour for the means
of subsistence ; their own flesh they could
not eat ; at last they even sold their own
154 THE WANDERING SOUL
wives and children, and all tliey had to pro-
cure the means wherewith to obtain the ne-
cessaries of life : there was great weeping
and lamentation. The priests of Isis* lifted
their eyes heavenward, and offered sacrifices
to reconcile their goddesses. However,
neither Isis, nor Soraphis,t nor Esculapius,
nor any other god or goddess had power to
procure them assistance, or to relieve them
from their sore distress, but stood as miserable
wooden idols, without being able to relieve
the miseries of their wTetched devotees !
W\ S. And after these miserable men had
sold their children, and spent their money,
what remedy did they then resort to, to pro-
tract their lingering and miserable exist-
ence?
S. C. The compassionate Joseph received
them as the king's servants, and provided
for them during the famine.
W. S. So the wealthy w^ere better off than
the poor ?
S. C. It appeared to be the case at first,
* Isis, a celebrated deity of the Egyptians. The worship of this
deity was universal in Egypt. They believed that the yearly and re-
gular inundation of the Nile proceeded from the abundant tears
which Isis shed for the loss of Osiris, hor brother, whom Typhan
had basely murdered.
The priests of Isis were obliged to observe perpetual chastity,
their heads were closely shaved, and they always walked barefooted,
and clothed themselves in linen garments—they never eat onions,
abstained from salted meat, and were forbidden to eat the flesh of
sheep and hogs.—Trans.
f An Egyptian God had a temple at Mempliis, one at Alexandria,
and one at Canopus.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 155
bi t they soon were all on an equality, for
when they had spent all their money, they
also sold their fields and landed possessions,
which they had inherited from their ancestors,
and parted with them reluctantly ; but ne-
cessity, which knows no law, compelled them.
For the oppression of hunger was great;
they walked the streets like spectres—^like
living skeletons did they appear. Every
morning some we.re found dead in their beds
;
some in the streets of the city and elsewhere
!
The misery—the universal misery—of all
Egypt is not to be described by words.
Often did they go weeping to the river Nile
to see the waters increase ; but all their ex-
pectations were blasted ; they knew not
what to do. There was no remedy at hand.
They could not enter the storehouses by
force. They assembled in multitudes before
the ruler, weeping most bitterly, saying,
" Why do you let us famish? give us to eat,
and take us servants, that we may serve the
king." Thus Joseph purchased all Egypt
with its inhabitants, and made them the pos-
sessions of Pharaoh.
W. S. You are telling me wonderful
things
!
S. C. Oh, son, were I to tell you all which
happened during this time, in this and other
co'.mtries, you would hear many wonderful
things ; but I dare not digress, lest I exhaust
myself too much.
156 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. It is true ; nor would I desire to
trouble you too much ; but since you told
me how Israel came into Egypt, please let
me hear how they came out.
S. C. You must know that they did not
remove till two hundred and fifteen years af-
terwards; during which time they had many
difficulties, trials, and adversities. For fifty-
six years after they came into the land of
Egypt, Joseph died at the, age of one hun-
dred and ten. Gen. 1. 22-26. And in a few
years after his death, according to Amasis,
Amenophis* ascended the throne. He saw
how the children of Israel, through the Di-
vine blessing, multiplied and increased in
strength and riches, because they possessed
the most fertile lands, and prospering, he be-
came alarmed lest they should subdue all
Egypt : he determined to bring them into
subjection, and forgot all the blessings and
riches which the country enjoyed and pos-
sessed through the instrumentality of Joseph.
He oppressed them severely, and compelled
them to labour hard and toil daily in mak-
ing and burning bricks and tiles. They had
to carry sand from the Nile to make bricks
and mortar for building splendid houses,
towers, and huge walls around the city.
They were compelled to labour under the
hot rays of a scorching sun, and beneath
them a parched earth ; the sweat streaming
• Sometimes called Ramoses Miamoun.
—
Trans.
WITH SBION CLEOPHAS 157
from their faces, while their feet had to en
dure intolerable heat arising out of the earth
and their faces roasting from attending the
burning kilns ; their overseers urging them
to press on with their work. Their sufferings
are not to be described.
W. S. They must have often thought upon
the liberties of their ancestors •
the golden
times they had under Joseph •
when their
cattle were in the rich pastures of the fertile
lands of Goshen when they had milk in
abundance ; their sheep well clad with wool
when they could promenade their delightful
parks and groves; and their fruit trees bear-
ing plentifully
»S C None was indulged, neither old nor
young, neither weak nor strong, noble or
io^noble ; no matter how learned soever how
virtuous, how honourable, they were no
more indulged or lenity shown toward them
than to the oxen who were made for the
yoke.
W S Oh. the great and insupportable
load
S. C. When this cruel tyrant Amenophis.
saw that, notwithstanding all this barba
rous treatment, this people increased by the
blessing of God ; and having understood that
it had been predicted that one should arise
from the Hebrews who would injure his
kingdom, he hit upon another expedient
He promulgated a decree that all the Hebrew
158 THE "WANDERING SOUL
male children should be destroyed, and only
to let the female children live. He instruct-
ed the midwives to that effect, so soon as the
males were born to drown them. Ex. iv. 15, 16.
W. S. Oh, shocking cruelty !
S. C. There was much lamentation and
weeping among the Hebrew mothers. That
which was a great blessing to them before,
seemed to them as a curse now; they dread-
ed their deliverance. Instead of it being a
season in which they loo^^ed for deliverance
from pains of labour or travail, it was the
approach of hearing the distressing intelli-
gence, "yl S071 is hoi'ny All the people of
Goshen were dismayed ; their houses were
filled with lamentation and weeping !
W. S. I am astonished that God did suffer
his people to be so severely afflicted.
S. C. God frequently permits tyrants to
oppress his people, for two special reasons ;
the first is, to prove, to try them ; the other,
to overreach tyrants in their wisdom, and to
show that they can do nothing beyond their
set bounds ; for this Pharaoh* was put to
open shame in this cruel barbarity by Divine
wisdom.
W. S. In what way ?
iS. C. God, who governs the children of
men, prevailed on the midwives not to re-
gard the decrees of this cruel king ; and he
• Pharaoh was the general name of the earlier kings of Egypt.
—
TVon*.
WITH SIIMON CLEOPHAS. 159
even ordained it so, that Amenophis brought
up the very man of whom he apprehended
so much evil; for one of the Hebrew women
of the tribe of Levi hid her son;^' three
months afterwards she took and put him in
a little boat of buh'ushes daubed with slime
and pitch, to resist the water and keep it out,
exposing' him in the flags on the shallows
of the Nile ; and there the king's only
daughter, called Thermutis, coming to the
water to bathe, and seeing the child, took
him up, and being well pleased witli him,
and God operating on her heart, she brought
him to her father's house and nursed him as
her own child, and called him Moses, be-
cause she had drawn him out of the water.
This Moses was such an exceeding fair child,
that all looked upon him with astonishment;
besides he was remarkable for his precocity
of understanding. He was liberally educat-
ed ; so that he became learned in all the
wisdom of the Egyptians, and many other
mysteries, in which God endowed him with
penetration. And this was the man by whom
the children of Israel were to be conducted
out of Egypt, to the great detriment of that
kingdom : this was presaged unto Moses
when yet a lad. On a certain day when the
king was dandling the child, his daughter
took the king's crown and placed it on
* Clemens says that when Moses's parents circumcised him, they
called him Joachim.
—
Trans.
160 THE WANDERING SOUL
Moses's head, he thrust it to the ground and
trampled thereon. Although this -troubled
the king, yet he could not effect the death of
Moses ; but contrary to his resolution to de-
stroy him, he had to raise him to the great
disadvantage of his own kingdom ; although
this did not happen in the days of Ameno-
phis, but only eighty years afterwards.
W. S. So then many things happen in the
process of time ?
S. C. Yes, certainly, for after Amenophis
had reigned thirty-two years, he was suc-
ceeded by Orus, who reigned thirty-eight
years. During his time Moses grew to be a
man mighty in words and deeds, and was
highly esteemed by the people. When he
was forty years old, and saw no end to the
afflictions of his brethren, and his heart
yearning for them, he forsook all the plea-
sures of the court ; such as being called by
honoured titles ; his influence in the court
;
having the name of being a prince of the
land of Egypt; the sumptuous royal feasts;
the company of musicians ; the wearing of
golden chains, rings, precious stones; the
abundance of gold, and every thing that the
heart of man could desire. All this he did
not regard; he forsook the court, choosing
rather to be afflicted with his people. True,
it appears strange to the world that he would
deny himself of all these advantages, and to
go as a wanderer into a strange land. But
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 161
he disregarded all this ; for he had his eye
fixed on the invisible One, as though he saw
him. His brothers ofave him no encouraore-
ment, although he came to redeem them
;
for they mocked at him. They could not
believe that he would renounce so much for
their sakes ; so he was obliged to ilee into
the wilderness* to escape the vengeance of
an angry king. At last he came to a priest
of Midian, whose daughter Zipporah he
married, and then remained with his father-
in-law keeping his sheep ; wielding a shep-
herd's wand instead of a sceptre. Instead of
a royal crown he w ore thorns ; for a golden
cup of wine, he had a pitcher of water ; in-
stead of sweet music, the bleating of lambs;
for a downy bed, the open field ; for purple
linen, a common wardrobe ;
goats were his
chancellors. There he w^as, the rejected
shepherd by his brethren, and reprobated by
the noble. Where was his hope and conso-
lation, for wdiich he had bartered his plea-
sures 1 for it appeared all was in vain. Long
had he been a pilgrim. You may suppose
that until forty years should have expired,
he would have forgotten all about his bro-
thers, and that it appeared as if God had
• It is thought and believed by many, that while Moses was re-
tired in the wilderness, that he wrote the Book of Job ; intending,
that by a most admirable example of patience, he might comfort the
Israelites under the weight of their oppressions in Egypt ; as also the
Book of Genesis, to inform them of the wonderful works of God«
and his distinguished care for the Jews.—Tt'ana.
o2
162 THE WANDERING SOUL
forsaken him ; but he looked to a future pe
riod. A striking antitype of that great shep-
herd who was yet to come.
W. S. What constanc}^ displayed by this
pious man ! But what did further take place ?
S. C After the death of Orus, Acenge-
res succeeded to the throne, and reigned
twelve years. After him reigned Achorus
for eight years. About this time there was
a wise man in Egypt, called Trismegistus,
of whom the city Thermoplis was called.
This Trismegistus was a man of fine ac-
quirements ; he foretold that a great person
vvould arise, of whom we shall make mention
hereafter. I could tell you many things
more concerning Belgio, the king of the
Celts ; of Cecrops,*- the founder of Athens,
and patron of the Grecian scliools, and many
others ; but at the present, we wäll confine
ourselves to that part of history which may
prove profitable to you.
W. S. That is perfectly right, father.
Please to proceed with your narrative.
S. C. Pharaoh Cenchres succeeded Acho-
rus. There was a delugef in Thessaly during
* Cecrops, a native of Sais, in Egypt, who led a colony to Attica
about 1556 years before Ciirist.
I This deluge, commonly called the Deucalion flood, which chiefly
happened in Thessaly, according to the relation of some writers, was
produced by the inundation of the waters of the liver Pheneus,
whose regular course was stopped by an earthquake, near mounts
Ossa and Olympus. According to Xenophon, there were no lees
than five deluges. But the principal one, tlie Deucalion, happened
1503 year« before Christ.
—
Trans.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHA.S. 163
the reign of king Deucalion. But when Cen-
chres had reigned fifteen years, and did not
cease oppressing the children of Israel, and
the time of which God spake unto Abraham,
four hundred and thirty years, having expir-
ed, God revealed himself unto Moses in a
most miraculous manner. When he was in
the wilderness, God commanded him to go
into Egypt, \o the above-named Pharaoh
Cenchres, and demand of him to let the
children of Israel go into the wilderness to
serve him. Ex. iv. 18. Pharaoh Cenchres
w^ould not consent to this ; and after Moses
had shown him, by signs and wonders, that
he was sent from God, he commanded all his
wise men and magicians, among whom were
Jannes and Jambres, the chief ones, to ap-
pear before him. These also did perform
wonders and signs before the king, and
withstood Moses and his brother Aaron, and
thus did Pharaoh not regard Moses's signs
and wonders, Ex. vii. 9-12, but increased
the tasks imposed upon the children of Israel
;
for they w^ere compelled to make bricks by
day, and gather the straw by night which it
required for the bricks : whereas they were
furnished straw beforehand, and thus the
children of Israel murmured against Moses,
and accused him that he was the cause of
their increased misery.
W. S, Oh, the great temptation !
5. C. At last God visited Egypt with ten
164 THE WANDERING SOUL
successive plagues; so that the Egyptians
plainly saw that their country was ruined,
their cattle slain, their waters become putrid,
their houses and ovens filled with frogs. Ex.
viii. 8-12. Their splendid palaces, their
parks, where they were wont to amuse them-
selves, were filled with thick darkness, where
they were sitting as though they were boimd,
so that they felt no disposition to move about;
nor could they without groping in thick
darkness. Besides this, in every house there
were some dead bodies, and the streets filled
with lamentation; one meeting the other,
saying, " Oh, my son died last niglit, my only
son, my only heir." Yea, the king's palace
shared the same fate ; for the young prince
was also lying at the very jaws of death ; the
noble men and the noble women, yea, all
had some dead bodies in their houses. There-
fore, they came unto the king, entreating
him with tears and trembling hands, that he
would leave Israel depart. Besides this, the
king found himself greatly perplexed on
every hand ; he not only gave them permis-
sion to go, but he was urging them to leave
the lands, Ex. xii. 33 ; obliging them to take
their dough, and bake it as well as they could
on their way. They collected from every
town and village ; a]id their number was six
hundred thousand, besides women and chil-
dren, and the mixed multitude which also
went with them. They then held the last
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 165
feast in Egvpt, and the Passover, not only
in remembrance of their exodus from Egypt,
but it also had reference to the innocent lamb
whicli was slain in my time.
W. S. Father, you know a great many as-
tonishing things to relate. Be pleased to let
me hear something more of this matter.
S. C. They went joyfully ; some carrying
their moveables ; others were driving their
cattle , some leading the laden camels and
asses ; others were carrying silver, gold, and
precious stones, which they had horroived^
from the Egyptians. The women carried their
dough, which was left on the passover, for it
was a flight ; for they had not time to bake what
was left. And as they pursued their journey,
and approached the Red Sea, they were ter-
ror-stricken to see such an innumerable host
equipped with swords and javelins in pur-
suit of them. The mountains were covered
with cavalry, riding full speed, bent upon
overtaking them. Ex. xiv. 1-9. The king
himself, in person, was among them, breath-
• BoRKowED.—This action has been treated by libertines and
freethinkers in a very ludicrous and blasphemous manner. But if
the case be impartially examined, there is very little reason to ob-
ject. The original word, here translated borrowed, properly signi-
fies to ask, -without any promise of making a return of -what waa
871 such asking voluntarily granted ; so that nothing of fraud or
violence is included in this notion. And as we may suppose that,
in their present terror, the Egyptians were willing to comply with
the request of the Israelites, convinced at last how very unjustly and
severely they had used them, and how much their safety depended
upon dismissing them honourably, surely, what was thus freely
given, the Israelites had a right to keep.— Trans.
166 THE WANDERING SOUL
ing out threatenings against them from afar,
saying, they shall return again to Egypt.
Then there was a cry raised, " Oh, had we but
remained in Egypt !" Ex. xiv. 10-12. The
women wrung their hands and plucked out
their hairs ; the men murmured against
Moses, their leader ; but the patient prince,
comforted of God, w^ho had condescended,
was ever ready to protect his people from
the assaults of Pharaoh. Ex. xiv. 13, 14.
When this mighty host approached, an-d they
had the Red Sea before them, trembling for
fear, God displayed his powder in this critical
moment, for the sea separated itself; the
waters stood as crystal walls to prepare them
a way to pass safely through. Ex. xiv. 15. 21.
Moses advanced, and the others followed,
until they all safely landed on the opposite
shore. Ex. xiv. 22.
W. S. What a remarkable, unheard-of pass-
ing through ! But what did king Pharaoh
and his host do?
S. C. He thought that this passage was
also prepared for him, and thinking they
would flee before him, he pursued them, Ex.
xiv. 23 ; and got his horsemen to advance,
whose number was 50,000 ; and he followed
them in chariots ; but when in the midst of
the deep, he was overwhelmed by the mighty
hand of God, through fearful visitations of
fierce tempests, terrible thunders, lightnings,
hail and rain, so that they began to flee in
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 167
horrible confusion ; for their chariot wheels
were taken off, so that they drave heavily. His
warriors trembled and feared greatly, and
were overtaken unexpectedly. Their re-
treating- was impeded ; for the standing walls
of water began to close in upon them on all
sides. To swim availed not, for they were
too far from the shore and the water too
deep ; wishing that they had never pursued
them was useless, for they were now con-
vinced that all their attempts to tight against
God were vain ; but it was too late ; they be-
gan to sink by thousands until there was
none left.
W. S. What a glorious deliverance to the
children of Israel ! Did they rejoice ?
S. C. They stood upon the dry land prais-
ing God, that their enemies, whose dread
tyranny they feared, had been swallowed up
by the deep. The dead bodies of men and
horses, and also chariot wheels, were seen
swimming on the face of the waters. The
beach was literally lined with soldiers'
clothes, pennants, iiags, bows, arrows, and
all manner of war instruments. The dead
were innumerable
!
W. S. There must have been great fear,
lamentation, and weeping, in Egypt when
they heard that the king, with his whole
army, was drowned in the sea.
S. C. Not only in Egypt, but also through-
out the circumjacent countries. At that
168 THE WANDERING SOUL
time thete was a king reigning in Assyria,
called Ascadotes; among the Greeks were
known Cecrops and Erestines, who built the
temple of Apollo in Delos. And about thirty-
years afterwards king Dardanus built the city
of Troy. Cenchres Acheres Wa,s made king
over Egypt, and he was succeeded by Che-
res ; and after him, Dardanus received the
kingdom ; but not one of them dared molest
or persecute the children of Israel.
W. S. I would like to know what further
befell this people, and how they came into
this land ?
S. C. Oh, son, many other remarkable
things happened ; for this people did not en-
ter into this land without a great many trials
and temptations. To relate all their diffi-
culties would weary your patience.
W. S. I entreat you, give me at least a
sketch of their sufferings, if yoar strength
of body will permit.
*S. C. Do you see a high mount south of
us?
W. S. I see something of the kind.
S. C. There is a wilderness beginning at
the foot of that mountain, extending into
Egypt, abounding with parched sandy bar-
rens, and there is very little water there.
The children of Israel came first into that
wilderness, and they soon were in want of
all the necessaries of life ; but contrary to
all their expectations, God provided them
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 169
with bread from heaven. The water, which
was bitter before, now became sweet and
s^reeable to the taste. Ex. xv. 22-25. At a
time when there was no water, nor the least
hope that any could be gotten—for the
heavens were as brass, the earth as iron
—
there was crying, there was weeping and
lamentation in every tent. In vain did their
dear little ones weep; and in vain did the
mothers look upon them with compassion.
The cattle panted on account of the intense
heat. There was no water—a cool breeze
was medicine to them. The sun, whose ge-
nial rays were always a blessing, was to
them a curse ; for his burning beams beat
sorely upon them, there being no clouds, no
fogs or mist, to screen them from his bright
rays. Then it was that God did, in their
great distress, bring forth water from a hard,
flinty rock, and made it yield water in abun-
dance, to the great consolation of those dis-
tressed souls, who came by thousands to
quench their ardent thirst, and to refresh
their souls. Ex. xvii. 4-7. In like manner,
when they had no bread, and a starving mul-
titude of six hundred thousand was looking
for something to satisfy their craving appe-
tites—there being neither wheat, nor corn, or
any thing else to support their dying bodies
—
then did God send them bread from heaven.
He rained from heaven a small round thing
as small as the hoarfrost on the ground, calt-
P
170 THE WANDERING SOUL
ed manna,* and each filled his basket, Ex.
xvi. 14, 15, to take his family, in order to
satisfy their craving appetites. They needed
no condiments, for this manna was palatable
to all : nor needed they stores or granaries
to hoard it up, for it lay every morning at
their very doors, and need but gather it,
and to praise God cordially for this distin-
guishing favour, which lasted during their
forty years' sojourning in the wilderness.
W. S. What do you say, father ; were they
travelling forty years before they came into
this land ? Was the way so long and tedious,
or were the mountains which they passed
over so exceedingly high ?
S. C. Oh, this was not the reason ; but be-
cause of their unbelief—their disbelieving
the power of the Almighty. Neither did
they dare leave this country, for the inhabit-
ants thereof were giants, enormous in sta-
ture ; their weapons were proportionate to
their bodies, and terrible. They did not re-
gard the children of Israel more than grass-
hoppers which are trampled under foot. Be-
sides the country abounded with mountains,
and the cities were well fortified by strong
and high walls ; to all human appearances
it was impossible for them to enter the land.
Of this they had been apprized through the
* At first sight the children of Israel cried out in surprise, manhu !
which signifies -what it thii ? From which this heavenly food wa»
called manna.—Trant.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 171
spies sent out by them, who had spied out
the whole land. Ex. xiii. and xiv. They
brought as many grapes with them as two
men could carry ; besides the land abounded
with olives, figs, honey, pomegranates, wheat,
barley, and the like ; but it appeared to them
impossible to enter the land. The spies
wept and sighed, and caused a great lamen-
tation in the camp. Mothers pressed their
children to their breasts, saying, "To what
are you born ! are you to die in this desert,
or fall victims to the cruel enemy ? Oh, that
we never had left Egypt ! Why did we fol-
low this Moses ? He has deceived us terri-
bly. Is this the land which flows with milk
and honey ? Swords, weapons of war, are
in readiness to slay us by the hands of these
giants !" The children, alarmed by the weep-
ing of their mothers, made bitter lamenta-
tion, filling the whole encampment with
weeping and wailing ! The men quaked
for fear : some ran and. gathered stones to
stone Moses and Aaron. They had forgotten
the signal blessings which they had received
at the hands of God. There was great mur-
muring among the people ; none would go
up to the promised land ; and they left their
weapons lie. Thus their conduct provoked
God that he decreed they should wander
forty years in the wilderness, till all perished
except two who put their trust in him.
n. S. I perceive, from all what you have
172 THE WANDERING SOUL
said, that God wills we should exercise faith
even in things that appear impossible to us,
so that his doings may be the more glorious-
ly displayed.
6*. G. You are correct in that matter.
W. S. I readily believe that during this
long period, many things befell them.
S. C. All that happened to this people is
not to be described. At one time they
wept, and anon they rejoiced ; one day every
thing seemed to prosper, and the next day
their hopes were all blasted. They appear-
ed to be penitent ; they seemed humbled
;
and as Moses had ascended the mountain to
receive the commandments and the law, it
appeared as though their hearts' desire was
to know the will of God. Ex. xix. 8. But
before forty days had expired they made
themselves an idol. They worshipped the
golden image of the Egyptian ox, Apis ; they
worshipped him with singing and all man-
ner of musical instruments. Ex. xxxii. 1-6.
It was truly lamentable to behold such a
scene. The whole multitude seemed to be
filled with this folly. They were for wor-
shipping many other strange gods. They
desired to eat flesh and murmured against
the sweet manna. Some were quarrelhng
with Moses, and had taken stones to stone
him, and had determined to be controlled no
longer by him. They were guilty of many
more similar acts.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 173
W. S. These are strange things. But how
did it further go ?
S. C. Oh, how should things further
go ! God would often let them follow the
evil imaginations of their own hearts ; he
gave them flesh to eat. There went forth a
wind from the Lord, and brought quails from
the sea, and let them fall by the camp ; thev
were spread so numerous roundabout the
camp, as it were a day's journey on this side
and a day's journey on the other side, two
cubits high upon the face of the earth. At
first there was great rejoicing among this
lustful people ; they began to pluck, cook,
and eat. It appeared like a general mar-
riage feast ; but this was soon changed, for
they fell and died like flies.
W. S. Thus I hear that many died on ac-
count of their own selfish obstinacy.
S. C. Yes, the majesty of God was terri-
ble against those who had sinned, frequently
punishing them severely. At one time fire
fell from heaven, consuming many : another
time fiery serpents were sent among them,
Num. xxi. 6, pursuing them, winding them-
selves around their bodies, so that they did
not know whither to flee; many were de-
stroyed by the biting of these serpents. Ter-
rible to behold, many fine persons destroyed
by the speckled viper ; but it was still more
terrible when the earth opened beneath them,
and swallowed up a whole company of them
;
p2
174 THE WANDERING SOUL
all their bitter lamentations did not avail;
they went down alive into the pit, and the
earth closed upon them, and they perished
from among the congregation. Num. xvi.
31-33.
W. S. Alas, had they to suflfer all this
!
Oh, how miserable man is
!
S. C. Therefore God, through Moses, spake
of another prophet, Deut. xviii. 15-19, and
represented him by exalting a brazen serpent
ni the wilderness, so that when those who
were bitten looked upon it lived. Num. xxi.
8, 9. He was also prefigured by a rod which
brought forth buds and bloomed blossoms in
one night. Num. xvii. 8 ; and through many
other sacerdotal offices and ceremonies repre-
senting the grace, love, power, and glory of
the coming prophet and king.
W. S. Father, it appears to me that the
people of Israel were very ungrateful towards
God for his favours and mercies.
»S. C. The heathens excelled them in evinc-
ing more gratitude for past favours than the
people of Israel. Bacchus, having planted
vineyards in Greece, was honoured with an
annual festival. And so many others among
the Greeks were immortalized. Dardanus,
the first king of Troy, Erichthonius, the in-
ventor of the chariot. Persebus, Cadmus,
Amphion, Minos, &c. But how different
was it with the children of Israel ; how soon
had they forgotten the only God.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 175
W. S. Father, be pleased further to tell
me how this people came into the land of
Canaan.
»S. C. After all these many miracles, and
the time of Moses having transpired, and
when the time drew near that God would
fulfil his promises, Joshua, the son of Nun,
a valiant prince, was placed in his stead.
Num. xxvii. 18. And when Moses had seen
all the land from the top of mount Pisgah,
he died in the 120th year of his age, Deut.
xxxiv. 7 ;
yet his eye was not dim, nor had
his natural force abated. And then Joshua
crossed the Jordan, not less miraculously
than Moses did the Red Sea. Josh. iii. and iv.
And when the kings of the Canaanites heard
that the Lord had dried up the waters of Jor-
dan, their hearts melted, neither had they
any more courage. Josh. y. 1. The kings
were astonished ; cities were closed ; the
tradesmen knew not what to do ; the farmer
despaired to follow his plough ; every one was
afraid of what was impending, and the more
so, because he did not even dare ride abroad
and speak with his neighbour; otherwise
their difficulties would not have been so
great, but now all their hopes were blasted.
IV". S. I desire to hear the end of this
history.
S. C. Do you see a high wall or tower at
some distance south of us ?
W. S. I do.
176 THE WANDERING SOUL
5. C. That was the first place which
Joshua took possession of, called Jericho, at
that time a fine and lively place ; but it was
wholly devastated. Josh, vi., and rebuilt a
few centuries afterwards, and was destroyed
during the late war in my lifetime, which
happened about fifty years ago. Joshua tri-
umphantly took possession of one city after
another, and slew many kings. At that time
king Adonizedech, apprized that Gibeon,
which was upon the mountain due north of
us, had made peace, entered into a con-
federacy with four kings, and fought against
that city ; but Joshua conquered him, and
hanged him and his allies upon a tree. Be-
sides these, he conquered twenty-six other
kings; but all this was not done without
many wonders ; for the walls fell down, the
sun and moon stood still at midday, so that
those residing in the far west were astonish-
ed at the long morning ; and those in the
east were astonished at the long noon. This
caused a general excitement, for such a thing
had never happened before, and none knew
the cause thereof but Joshua and his men.
When this prince had conquered nearly all
the country, except a few fortified cities,
among which was Jerusalem, he divided the
land, by lot, among the twelve tribes of Israel,
and appointed each his inheritance; fulfil-
ling the promise of God to the seed of Abra-
ham. Josh. xiii.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 177
W. S. Had the children of Israel rest after
this?
5". C. Alas, they had not ; for the residue
of the gentiles, which they had not wholly
destroyed, troubled them considerably after
the death of Joshua. They forsook God them-
selves and conformed to heathen customs,
committed idolatry and all manner of abomi-
nations; especially did they worship Baal
and Ashtaroth, two heathen idols. Judg. ii.
12, 13.
W. S. What an abominable apostacy. But
how did they thus apostatize ?
S. C. Man will readily turn from that
which is invisible to that which is visible.
The Assyrians had, at one time, a king call-
ed Jupiter Belus ; he was prosperous in his
kingdom, and on that account was deified
and canonized. After he died, an image was
erected to his honour, and one of the most
splendid stars in the heavens was assigned
to him, which is called Jupiter in honour of
him. There was also a prosperous and wise
king of Greece called Jupiter; his father
was Saturn, and his brothers were called
Pluto and Neptune. These were all deified
after their death, but especially Jupiter, call-
ed Belus by the Assyrians, that is to say, a
ruling lord. Thus Venus is called goddess
of pleasure, called Asteroth by the Sidonians,
and honoured of them and the surrounding
nations as a goddess, and the most splendid
178 THE WANDERING SOUL
of the evening stars was called after Venus
;
thus also is the star Replian honoured and
esteemed sacred to Saturn.
W. S. I remember that Noah told me
something respecting the begiiming of idol-
atry ; and especially did he tell me of Belus
Jupiter, to whom they erected images, which
caused him a great deal of trouble lest idol-
atry might be the consequence ; and thus it
has come to pass to be the case. However, I
am astonished that Israel should follow those
heathen idols, wdien they had seen so many
miracles wrought by God.
iS\ C. You would, not be astonished were
you acquainted with all the circumstances ;
for the law of God, given by Moses, com-
mands that we crucify the sinful lusts of the
flesh ; but in serving tlieir idols, they had
full liberty to indulge in sensualities, and
whatever pleased the eye. They might revel
in pleasure, for their altars and places of
worship were in pleasant groves. The wor-
shipping of their idols was a kind of musical
jubilee ; drums, trumpets, bells, harps, and
the like instruments were played; singing
and dancing, eating and drinking, whoring,
and all manner of unchastity, were the ac-
companying exercises. Every one followed
the desires of his own heart ; for they sought
no other happiness than to revel in sinful
pleasures. They were allowed full indul-
gence to enjoy themselves ; and this was like
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 179
a syren lure to the people of Israel, to lead
them from the only true and living God.
But, alas ! they were not so spiritually minded
as not to serve Baal and Ashtaroth with all
their hearts.
W. S. Father, you have satisfied me in
this ; but how was it with the people of Israel,
did they all apostatize ?
S. C. The Lord punished them through
the heathens, who made them labour severely,
so that their life was a burden to them ; but
when they called on him he sent them a Sa-
viour, who redeemed, protected, and govern-
ed them according to the law of Moses ; they
were governed by twelve judges for the
space of four hundred years. These judges
waged many wars against the heathens and
subdued them ; and took Jerusalem from the
Jebusites, and burnt it wholly, except the
chief city on the mount. Othniel, Caleb's
son-in-law, took upon him the government,
and exterminated the giants in Hebron,
Ehud conquered the Moabites, Judg. iii. 6-
16 ; Barak the Canaanites, Gideon the Mi-
dianites, Jeptha the Ammonites, Samson the
Philistines ; and thus Israel was frequently
aided in their distress, and there always re-
mained so much knowledge among them,
that, through the law of promises, the true
worship of God was preserved. But were I
to relate all the wonders that happened du-
ring the reign of the judges—how they did
180 THE WANDERING SOUL
succeed in putting down their enemies—
with comparatively small forces they con-
quered hosts, time would fail me ; for neither
the renowned Hercules, nor Hector, nor Ajax,
nor Agamemnon, nor Ulysses, nor Meno-
iaus ; no, not one of the Grecian heroes who
gained great honour in the Trojan* w^ar,
which took place about this time, cannot be
compared with any of the aforesaid judges.
Afterwards they were governed forty years
by Eli the priest, but not without fear of be-
ing destroyed as a people, for the Philistines
had possession of all the harbours of the sea
and the fertile countries. Adjacent to them
is Phenicia, with the two principal commer-
cial cities Tyre and Sidon. These troubled
the children of Israel considerably, commit-
ting depredations on their borders, robbed
their inhabitants, they invaded and conquer-
ed them, and took the ark of God with great
shoutings, 1 Sam. iv. 4-11: but this profited
them little, for their fish idol Dagonf toppled
upon his face to the earth before the ark of
the Lord ; and the head of Dagon and both
the palms of his hands were cut off upon the
threshold, 1 Sam. v. 4 : their priests were smote
with emerods in their secret parts ; there was,
besides, among the citizens a great lamenta-
* Troy was taken after a siege of ten years, 1 184 years before
Christ—Tran«.
f Dagon is commonly figured as a man in his upper parts, with
äu tail of a fish.
—
Troiu.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 181
tion arid sore distress by day and by night,
that they gladly returned the ark of the Lord
to the Israelites, that it might be brought to
its own place. After this event Samuel, a
pious person and a praphet of the Lord, con-
ducted the affairs of the nation until it was
changed into a kingdom, 1 Sam. vii. 10, for
the chief and princes of Israel desired a king
of God, thinking that they would be a more
permanent people if they had a king ; where-
upon Saul, a tall person, was made the first
king of Israel. This happened about 450 year-s
'after they departed from Egypt. About
this time Cillis was king of Assyria, Codrus
of Athens, about 100 years after Troy was
laid waste by the Grecians, and when the
Latium kingdom was commenced by Eneas.
About this time the kingdoms of Lacedemo-
nia and Corinth began.
W. S. Was not the kingdom of Israel at
that time in a prosperous condition ?
S. C. By no means. True, this king did
introduce some order, and did conquer some
heathens, but he did not fully liberate Israel
and restore them peace, for he was not in
possession of the true royal court, namely,
this city which he could not obtain from the
Jebusites, therefore he was obliged to reside
in Gibeon, which is called to this day Gibea
Saul, which was then a splendid city, but at
present, nothing but the ruins thereof to be
seen. Furthermore, he was not obedient to
Q
182 THE WANDERING SOUL
the Lord, but was proud, therefore God re-
jected him. 1 Sam. xv. 11. But the chosen
of the Lord, the shepherd of Israel, born ot
the tribe of Judah, to whom pertamed the
sceptre, he was a true figure of the anointed.
W. S. You have a knowledge of some
great mysteries, for your profound thoughts
on this subject show it.
»S. C. Oh, son ! I scarcely know of which
shepherd to speak, for two occupy my mind
at present; but to follow the order of history,
to assist your understanding, I will proceed
with the first.
W. S. I will listen attentively.
^. C. The one whom I first mentioned was
called David, a promising youth, friendly
and piously disposed, but little esteemed in
his father's house. Chosen of God, he kept
his father's sheep, 1 Sam. xvi. 11, and was
solemnly anointed as king of Israel by
Samuel, 1 Sam. xvi. 13, and afterwards slew
a giant, depending more on faith than in reli-
ance upon his own strength and weapons of
war. 1 Sam. xvii. 50, 51. He gained the good
will of the people, so that while Saul yet
lived, the kingdom was assigned him ; how-
ever, he did not obtain it after suffering much
tribulation and adversity. When Saul was
slain in his battle against the Philistines,
David erected his throne at Hebron ; but after
having been king seven years, 2 Sam. ii. 11,
and having the command of all the forces of
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 183
Israel, he besieged the city of Jebus. 2 Sam. v.
6. The Jebusites relied upon their own well-
•
fortified city, and mocked David by placing
the blind and lame of the city upon the
walls ; for they had not been conquered for
five hundred years. They had a strong for-
tified castle upon this mountain, which they
considered impossible to be stormed, and a
little lower down, upon mount Akron, was
the suburb. After David had taken posses-
sion of the suburb, he then stormed yonder
town, where you see the remains of its walls ;
he entered the chief city and exterminated
the Jebusites. So he dwelt in the fort, and
called it the city of David. He enlarged and
highly improved it, and it became the ki-ng's
palace, and was renowned as a famous city in
every land.
W. S. But what is that towards the east
from us? I see a great many remains of a
dilapidated wall—blue and white stones, pil-
lars of marble, some appear to be gilt, and
although there is much grass and moss
grown among those stones, still it is evident
that there were many splendid houses in
times past.
S. C. I know not what you mean, that you
bring such things to mind as are calculated
to grieve me ; do you think my heart is made
of diamond, and my mind of steel, because
you ask me such questions ? If I had not
seen these buildings in their most flourish
184 THE WANDERING SOUL
ing condition, then it would not affect me so
much. You well may ask whence all those
heaps of stone, among which are some valu-
able stones of various figures and sizes, some
highly ornamented ;
yea, there are many of
the streets filled with ruins ; and were I to
give you an account of every thing in rela-
tion to them, it would make a whole book to
notice them all; but, as we have assembled
for this purpose, the question is not an im
proper one, but too mature, for we are en
gaged in the narration of what first befell
this city ; for she experienced sad and unfor-
tunate vicissitudes before her final destruc
tion.
TT. S. Father, be not displeased with me
;
when I often bluntly ask concerning things,
you must ascribe it to my inexperience. I,
who have come from a great distance, know
not what has taken place in days that are
past, and it is by asking that I am to be in-
formed. Be pleased, therefore, to tell me
something more concerning David the king.
S. C. This king did not only adorn and
improve the city with splendid houses, sub-
due the surrounding countries, and restore
the true worship of God to its primitive
'
purity, but also composed psalms, and pro-
phesied of an eternal kingdom, which God
would perpetuate from the kingdom and tribe
of Judah, which God promised unto Abra-
ham nine hundred years previouslv that in
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 185
his seed all the nations of the earth should be
blessed. Now this highly favoured king,
after having reigned forty years, died and
was buried in the city of David, and his
kingdom was greatly established. 1 Kings
ii. 10, 11.
W. S. Who succeeded David in the king-
dom ?
S. C. He was a wise and prudent son
;
there was none to be compared unto him.
W. S. What was his name ?
S. C. Solomon, which perfectly agrees
with his disposition, 2 Chron. i. 2 ; for he
reigned forty years without having any war.
His was truly the golden age ; and the king-
dom of Israel never was in such a prosper-
ous condition as at that time. He commanded
respect, on account of his wisdom, among all
the kings and potentates. He solved many
difficult things. He was skilled in all the arts
and sciences. His knowledge of architecture,
agriculture, and horticulture was extensive.
In his economical arrangements, for order and
perfection, none exceeded him. There were
no protracted controversies before him ; for
he always brought them to an immediate and
satisfactory issue by his wisdom. In short,
he was the flower of all the kings of the
earth, and an ornament to Israel ; and in ad-
dition to all this, he made Jerusalem the
dwelling place of holiness, and a queen of
all the earth. In the city, on Mount Moriah,
q2
186 THE WANDERING SOUL
where are many ancient remains, he built
one of the most splendid temples* that ever
was erected ; adorned and ornamented the
marble stones of which it was composed
with gold and silver, shining in splendour like
the majestic sun. One hundred and eighty
thousand workmen were employed in this
structure for seven years and a half All man-
lier of carved work, linens of various colours
covered the sanctum sanctorum, the holy of
holies. In it were the altar for burning in-
cense and the ark of the covenant. There
was no city but the city of Jerusalem where
the Almighty was tobe thus publicly w^orship-
ped. 2 Kings vi. O son, how blessed, how sig-
nally and distinguishedly blessed, is a people
among whom God has his name, and over
whom rules such a wise king as Solomon.
He also built a palace for himself, the mag-
nificence and splendour of which was beyond
expression ; he also built another for his Egyp-
tian queen, and a royal country palace for
his summer residence, which he called the
house of the forest of Lebanon. Princes and
queens brought him presents from afar, for
his fame was spoken of in all the world, and
the greatest men of the age were ambitious
to see him and to hear his wisdom. His
* Solomon laid the foundation of the temple in the fourth year of
his reign and second month, in the year after the creation 2992,
and the 480th of the Israelites' exit out of Egypt; and about one
thousand years before the birth of the Messiah.
—
Tran».
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 187
yearly revenue, exclusive of taxes, was im-
mensely great ; the enormous sum of forty
tons of gold annually.* Silver was as plenty
as stones in Jerusalem. His wisdom and
learning exceeded all the learning and wis
dom of the Chaldeans, Egyptians, Ethio-
pians, Tyrians, and other renewed nations
;
so that there was none to be compared with
him in all the world. O, how Jerusalem
flourished then! Three times a year all
Israel assembled in Jerusalem : the number
of them was no less than one million.
Pause a moment and consider the vast
concourse, the great number of different ar-
tificers, merchants, the nobility and princes,
priests and scribes ; the many splendid houses,
the pleasure gardens, with which the city
was adorned ; and, behold ! what is its present
condition ? a heap of ruins, and a desolate
place ! Especially when we reflect on the
great suflferings and distress it had to experi-
ence. This all is a lamentable history of tacts.
W. S. Father, before you become too pen-
sive, be pleased to tell me more concerning
the kingdom of Israel.
5^. C. When this blessed king was dead,
his son succeeded him and ascended the
throne ; but he was unlike his father ; for he
• His annual revenue amounted to 666 talents of gold, besides
the tribute of kings and nations subject to him, the customs of the
merchandise, and the rich presents sent him from all quarters ; so
that he had gold and silver in such abundance that it was account-
ed as stones.—TVans.
188 THE WANDERING SOUL
destroyed and wasted more through his folly
than his father had saved by his wisdom. 1
Kings xii.
W. S. That was lamentable! But what
was the consequence?
S. C. The kingdom, which was united be-
fore during the three preceding kings' reign,
was now divided. Two of the tribes, Judah
and Benjamin, adhered to the son of Solomon,
called Rehoboam ; the other ten tribes made
choice of Jeroboam as their king. This was
only a minor evil, for them to be divided ; but
a greater one befell them, through which the
greatness of Israel was wholly destroyed.
W. S. That was, indeed, to be much re-
gretted.
S. C. I cannot relate it to you wdthout
much sorrow ; however, I will tell you all
about it. Jeroboam was apprehensive that if
the nation was obliged to come thrice in a
year to Jerusalem to offer sacrifice, that they
might go back to their allegiance to the house
of David ; therefore, he made two calves of
gold, and set up one in Bethel, in the south-
ern, and another at Dan, in the northern part
of his dominions; for he knew how they were
alienated from God in former days by idols,
and he succeeded ; for from that time oxen,
calves, and sheep were seen daily driving to
the new altars, to be offered thereon.
W. S. How is it possible that they could
have been so very ignorant ?
fr
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 189
iS. C. To them it did not appear idolatry
;
for he made the calves, as he said, to the
honour of God, who had led Israel out of
Egypt, alleging that God is not confined to
any particular place, and that He may be
worshipped as acceptably at Bethel, before
the calf, as at Jerusalem, in the Temple.
W. S. This appeared to be plausible rea-
soning.
S. C. If this had not been somewhat plau-
sible, how could the people have been seduced
to worship! His successors practised the
same abominable idolatry. Nadab his son,
Baasha, Elah, Zimri, Amri, and Ahab walked
in the same wicked course. They did not
only encourage Israel in this idolatry, but
also introduced the worship of Baal Jupiter.*
Then God sent the prophet Elijah, with
signs and wonders, to this people ; and he
said unto them, " As the Lord God of Israel
liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be
dew nor rain these three years;" and there
was no rain in that land for three years
and six months. 1 Kings xvii. 1 . The misery
which was then in that land cannot be de-
scribed ; the earth was parched, the grain of
the fields was all burnt up, and the water of
* Ahab was a great idolater. The Scripture says, " that he did evi!
in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him." He mar-
ried Jezebel, a daughter of Ethbaal, the heathen king of the Zidoni-
ans ; and with her he introduced the Zidonian idol-worship of Baal,
and built a temple to him in Samaria ; and made a grove for thd
practice of his wicked abominations.
—
Trans.
190 THE WANDERING SOUL
the rivers was dried up, and wherever eye
could be cast there were parched fields ; cat-
tle lowing for water, but there was none, for
the famine was throughout the land ; nay,
even the king's horses could scarce any-
longer survive. Although clouds seemed to
gather, the}^ were soon dissipated by the
scorching rays of the sun. How often did
they wish for refreshing showers, but all was
in vain ; the heavens were as brass, and the
earth as iron. Ultimately, God had compas-
sion upon the land of his strayed flocks, who
were seduced and- led astray by false shep-
herds. There is a fertile mountain, near the
sea, north of us, called Carmel, more than a
day's journey from Jerusalem. It was upon
that mountain that Elijah assembled the
priests of Baal in the presence of the king
and all Israel, and showed unto them by the
falling of fire from heaven that the Lord is
God alone. 1 Kings xviii. 19-39. AVhen the
people saw this and believed, God sent rain,
in answer to the petition of Elijah. God, as
it were, unlocked the heavens, and the rain
descended, to the joy of all Israel, and the
vineyards and fields assumed a beautiful ver-
dure, and stood dressed in vivid green. This
divine prophet was afterwards much perse-
cuted by king Ahab, until he ascended up into
heaven in a fiery chariot; leaving behind
him a disciple called Elisha, who fed the
flock of Israel on green pastures for the
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 191
space of seventy years. He did many signs
and wonders ; raised the dead, cured the le-
prous, fed the hungry in a miraculous man-
ner, relieved the distressed, instructed the
ignorant, and prophesied of future events.
He survived six kings in Israel; namely,
Ahab, Ahasias, Joram, Jehu, Jehoahaz, and
Joash, who all reigned consecutively ; and he
died lamented by all Israel, for he was their
comfort in those distressing seasons. 2 Kings
xiii.
W. S. You are telling me wonders ! But,
tell me, did the revolted Israelites reform ?
did they renounce their idolatry, and again
return to the house of David ; because you
say, that through a miracle wrought by Eli-
jah, they believed ?
S. C. Why should they reform ? The com-
mon people were not their own masters ; and
if they even did regard what the true pro-
phets said,—for there were still a few who
warned them faithfully, such as Hosea.
Amos, Joel, Abdias, and a few others,—their
ungodly kings, who wielded the sceptre,
compelled them to offer unto the idols ; be-
sides, the craftiness of the false prophets was
employed to represent things to the mind in
such a manner that their understandings
were benighted and perverted, and diverted
from divine truths.
W. S. Thus I perceive, that this people
was always governed by ungodly kings.
192 THE WANDERING SOUL
5*. C. Always : from the first to the very
last did these kings increase in wickedness;
for from the time of the aforesaid king Joash,
who reigned in the days of Elisha, one Je-
roboam succeeded another ; and after them,
some tyrants laid the land waste, and de-
stroyed each other as ravens. Shallum put
Zacharias to death, 2 Kings xiv. 16-23, and
Shallum was slain by Menahem ; and Pekah
slew him and reigned in his stead. After-
wards Hoshea made a conspiracy against
Pekah, and smote him, and reigned in his
stead, until God put an end to all these abo-
minations through Shalmaneser, the king of
Assyria, who was powerful and mighty upon
the earth ; for when Tiglath-pileser, Shalma-
neser's father, was dead, he invaded this coun-
try, subdued Samaria, and obliged Hoshea to
pay an annual tribute. And when Hoshea
designed to cast off the yoke, with the assist-
ance of the king of Egypt, Shalmaneser in-
vaded him again with a powerful army, pil-
laged the country where he came, seized
upon the golden calf at Bethel, laid siege to
Samaria, which he took at the end of three
years, made Hoshea prisoner, put him in
chains, and imprisoned him for life. Thus
tlie kingdom of the ten tribes of Israel was
ended, after having been a nation from the
truce of Solomon, for the space of 253 years
;
and thus were carried away captives, and
dispersed through Media and Assyria; and
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 193
there they were convinced of the just judg-
ments of God for sinning against heaven and
against Him.
W. S. O, what great changes! what vicis-
situdes !
S. C. Similar vicissitudes or revolutions
took place about the same time* in Italy
;
for Amulius, king of Albia, was put to death
by Romulus and Remus, his friends, and
they formed the city of Rome, which is now
the chief city of all the world, whose king-
dom is governed at present by the mighty
and invincible emperor Trajan, whose an-
cestors
W. S. Father, I am afraid you are too
much wearied,
S. C. O, the sorrowful histories crowd in
upon me on every hand
!
W. S. You were speaking of Trajan.
S. C. Whose ancestors, said I, polluted
themselves with blood; and he is not free
from it, although he is renowned : but what
shall I speak of him, when I have such a
wide field open before me ? I would also de-
sire to tell you something concerning the
Greek Olympian games, and of the kingdom
of Macedonia; but why should I concern
myself with Gentile history ? I have enough
with the city of Jerusalem, of what befell
• The kingdom of Israel was ended by the taking of Samaria, by
Chalmaneser, king of Assyria, about seven hundred aad twenty-on«
years before Christ.
—
Tram.
R
194 TlIE WANDERING SOUL
her, and I have digressed from the chronoh •
gical order of history, to tell the history of
Jerusalem and the history of the Jews till
the present time.
W. S. That is true, and I am desirous to
hear the end of that history.
S. C. Did I not tell you how Rehoboam
the son of Solomon, reigned after the death
of his father ?
W. S. Father, you have told me.
S. C. Inasmuch as he and the princes of
Judah fell from the Lord,* the Lord made
bare his arm, for, behold, the Lord raised up
Shishak, king of Egypt, to invade him with
a numerous army, who ravaged his country
took his fortified towns, entered Jerusalem
without opposition, and plundered the tem-
ple and the royal treasury ; for the king's
heart had failed him when he saw this great
army, and he humbled himself before God,
and confessed that this was his justly me-
rited punishment. When God perceived
this, he did not wholly exterminate them,
but permitted their treasures, upon which
they depended, to be taken. The citizens
were dejected in mind, the priests sighed,
che princes were astonished, and thought
* For three years he kept up the true worship of God at Jeru-
salem. When thinking himself secure and settled in the kingdom,
he pulled off the mask, and being joined by his subjects in idolatry,
they set up images and groves upon every hill and under every green
tree, where they committed the detestable sin of Sodom, and all the
wickedness for which the Canaanites had been expelled.
—
Tram.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 195
upon the flourishing times they had during
Solomon's reign ; they wept when they saw
foreign nations, the Egyptians, the Ethio-
pians, and Arabians, carry off the holy ves-
sels, the money, the treasures, their golden
shields, and many other precious and rare
articles. Thus might they well say, that
Avisdom is more preferable than folly and
ignorance, even as light is preferable to
darkness ; and that king Solomon had much
reason to be solicitous, when he saw, from
the course of the people, that this would be
tlie consequence—that the works of his
hands, curiously made, were to pass into the
hands of others. When Rehoboam had
reigned seventeen years, his son Abijah suc-
ceeded him in the kingdom, and having-
reigned three years, he was succeeded by Asa,
who reigned forty years. 2 Chron. xii. xiii.
tvi. He lived about ten years in peace, and
then the country was invaded by Zeroh,
king of Cash, of Ethiopia.* This invasion
was designed utterly to extirpate the name
of Judah, for Zeroh came upon him with
an army of 1,000,000 men and 300 armed
chariots ; but he and his whole army were
routed, put to flight, and many were slain.
Asa and his people returned to Jerusalem
in triumph, and the country had peace for a
• This was not Ethiopia properly so called ; it was that point of
Arabia Petrsea of the east shore of the Red Sea, which inclines to-
wards Egypt and Judea.
—
Tram.
196 THE WANDEHING SOUL
season. On the demise of Asa, his son Je-
hoshaphat succeeded him. 2 Chron. xx. He
was a pious man. Jehoshaphat was consi-
derably harassed by the neighbouring kings,
and all Jerusalem was in exceeding great
alarm ; but when they took their refuge in
God they were saved. He exhorted them
as a father would his children—^he led them
as a shepherd, and ruled them as a king; but
when his son Jehoram succeeded him, the
country was soon involved again in misery
and wretchedness. He was a very degene-
rate son, and became worse by marrying
Ahab's daughter, whose wickedness he imi-
tated ; for when his father was dead, he put
to death his six brethren and many of the
nobles, and advanced idolatry as much as he
could. The country was again pillaged by
the Philistines and Arabians—^the city did
not escape their ravages. He and his wife
and children, and many others, were taken
and led into captivity. He died of a loath-
some and lingering disease, of which his
bowels fell out, for he rejected the admoni-
tion he received of Elyoh by letter. His
son Ahaziah, who succeeded him, was ex-
ceedingly wicked ; therefore, was ho and his
family destroyed by Jehu. 2 Chron. xxii.
W. S. O, how this people was afflicted,
and what strange things happened to this
eity!
jS. C. 0, my son, you have only heard the
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 197
beginning. What yon have heard is not to
be compared with what you will yet hear, for
the crimes of the city were still of a more
heinous and abominable character, and the
consequent punishment proportionate ; for
the ungodly queen, Athalia, the mother of
Ahaziah, when her son was dead, arose, and
destroyed all the seed royal of the house of
Judah. 2 Chron. xxii. 10. The weeping and
lamentation was great. Mothers, seeing their
infant children murdered, their hearts failed
them. The bloodthirsty war dogs-hunted
them down every where in the city ; they
had no regard for any. The whole royal
family was slain, except Joash, the son of
Ahaziah, who was taken by Jehosheba,
the king's daughter, and he and his nurse
were hid in a bedchamber. 2 Chron. xxii. 11.
Athalia reigned seven years ; but when
Joash had been six years of age, being from
his youth under the tutelary care of Jehoida,
the high-priest, who had seen all the abomi-
nation, he was anointed and proclaimed
king of Judah by the sound of trumpets
;
and the queen, who made some resist-
ance, was brought forth by the command of
the high-priest, and slain at the stable gate
belonging to the palace ; and thus was she
rewarded by the effusion of her own blood.
2 Chron. xxiii. 15. But, lamentable to think
on ! this king reigned well only as long as
this respectable old man lived. 2 Chron. xxiv.
r2
I^ THE WANDERING SOUL
Jehoiada survived eight kings of Judah,
namely, Solomon, Rehoboam, Abijah, Asa,
Josaphat, Jehoram, Ahazias, and the queen
Athaliah. What he had to endure is not
easily imagined, much less to be described
I feel for every aged person who has to spend
his time this way. Jehoiada governed the
minority of the young prince ; but this holy
man dying in the 130th year of his age, then
the floods of iniquity and abomination were
let loose ; Joash left the service of the tem-
ple and worshipped idols. Being reproved by
Zachariah, the son of Jehoiada, he most impi-
ously and ungratefally ordered a band of
ruffians to kill him, who, setting upon him
in one of the courts of the temple, stoned
him to death, while he called upon God to
avenge his cause ; and his blood indeed was
required in those last days of this genera-
tion, as the ruined walls of the city, the
waste streets, the mouldering palaces, which
you see on yonder mountain, amply testify.
W. S. O, the impious kings !
S. C. His son Amaziah, who succeeded
him, was not much better. Elated with his
successful wars against the Edomites, he re-
proached the prophets, challenged Joash, the
king of Israel ; and he came with his whole
army, entered victoriously into Jerusalem,
plundered the temple and palace, and broke
down the walls of the city, from the gate of
Ephraim to the corner gate, making an open-
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 199
ing of at least forty yards, so that the city
would not rebel any more against him. But
the wall was rebuilt by Uzziah, 2 Chron.
xxvi., who succeeded his father. He was a
great king ; for God prospered him in all his
undertakings. He made many nations tribu-
tary;* but wdien he had become powerful
and prosperous, he opposed the priests ; by
ambition to unite in himself the two sacred
characters of prince and prophet, he was
for sacrificing and ser\dng in holy things
himself; but God showed him by a sign,
that his conduct did not please him, for he
was smitten with leprosy, and remained
leprous till he died, in the 68th year of his
age, and left a son called Jotham, who w^as
pious, and reigned well for sixteen years.
2 Chron. xxvii.
W. S. Thus I perceive that they had
some prosperous times after Jerusalem had
been m its first flou.rishing condition.
S. C. The reign of the two above-named
kings continued for the space of seventy
years, during which time every one might
sit beneath his owm vine and fig-tree, none
dared to make him afraid ; the cities w^ere
• He beat the Philistines in many battles, dismantled their forti-
fied towns, and built cities on their frontiers, and thereby kept them
in subjection. He subdued the Arabians that bordered on Egypt,
and the Mehurians that lived in the deserts, and brought the Amon-
ites under tribute. He repaired the walls of Jerusalem, fortified
them with towers, and erected engines thereon for throwing darts,
arrows, and great stonee, to annoy the enemy.—Trau».
2Ö0 THE WANDERING SOTTL
improved, the fields were sown, the merchant
became wealthy, the mechanic had every
thing in abundance, all were at perfect liberty
to go whither they pleased, every thing was in
a prosperous state. As you see it is in a fertile
and beautiful country ; the trees are deprived
of their foliage but for a short time, the
winter being but of short durance ; the rays
of the sun, because he does not retrograde far
from the north, moderate the cold ; although
it is rather warm in the summer, yet it is
pleasant during the greater part of the year
;
a land, indeed, when there is peace, that
floweth with milk and honey. Besides, the
divine service was a pleasing and holy exer-
cise, for king David and Solomon were hap-
pily calculated to make every thing attract-
ive, for they had introduced the finest music
in the world, they had many sweet singers
and stringed instruments, making a heavenly
melody. I saw the remains of the temple,
and am persaaded that it was splendid, and it
must have been superlatively so in the days
of Solomon.
W. S. O, what prosperous times then!
S. C. But very short and uncertain; for
all their joys were changed into sorrow, for
the aforementioned son of Jotham, Ahaz,
blasted all their hopes.
W. S. How, father ?
S. C. Do you see a valley between us and
the mountain south of us ?
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 201
W. S. I do.
S. C. In that valley* Ahaz set up a large
brass image, called Baal Jupiter, or Moloch,
under which he built a great fire and heat-
ed the image intensely. On both sides
of it were two strong walls. Thither re-
sorted the deluded parents with their fami-
lies, deceived by their wicked priests, and
made their children pass through the fire,
offered them up to Moloch into his arms, and
thus they were burnt up. The lamentation
and crying of those children is more readily
imagined than to be described. In order to
prevent the parents from being compassion-
ately affected by the cries of their children,
drums were beaten, and they played upon
all manner of musical instruments; hence
the valley is called Tophet, the vale of music,
or Gehenna, that valley of murder, on ac-
count of the murders committed there. This
was an abominable delusion, contrary to all
nature and the law of God, who desires not
the death of any one, but the happiness of
all, and is always better pleased to see men
happy and cheerful, than to see human im-
molations. Although he demanded Abraham
to sacrifice his son, it was not his desire
'that Isaac should, die ; he was only testing
Abraham's faith. King Ahaz was a great
idolater, and made Judah imitate the Israel-
• Valley of Hinnom.—Trant.
202 THE WANDERING SOUL
ites, the Ammonites, and other heathen na-
tions in their abominable idolatry.
W. S. But were they also punished ?
S. C. Certainly. Not only did the Assy-
rian king cause the people of Jerusalem to be
sore afraid on account of his great and pow-
erful army besieging the city, but Pekah, the
king of Israel, marched against Ahaz, and
gave him a terrible overthrow, carried off
vast spoils, and above 200,000 captives, men
and women, which was terrible to behold.
The Edomites and Philistines also ransacked
and pillaged the country ; whereupon Ahaz
took the treasures, sent them with an em-
bassy to Tiglath-pileser, the king of Assyria,
and made a league with him ; and thus you
see they were troubled on all sides, and after
committing many other abominations he
died.
W. S. O, the distressing times, when all
true knowledge of God was lost
!
S. C. Greece seemed to be more prosper-
ous now than this miserable people, for Ho-
mer had enlightened them by his poems and
other useful instruction ; and Hesiod's verses
on tablets, and his moral code, his composi-
tions called The Wo?'ks and the Days, gave
the Greeks some ideas of the Creator ; but
among the Jews all virtue and knowledge
were lost ; they departed from virtue's path.
But God did not give them over altogether,
he glorified and magnified his name. He
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 203
raised two bright lights in Israel ; the one
was the prophet Isaiah, who prophesied good
tidings to Ahaz, saying, " Behold, a virgin
shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call
his name Immanuel, that is God with us."
Holy and glorious name !
—and I lived to see
this child.
W. S. Father, I see you are weeping. I
am sorry that I trouble you so much, I wish
I understood you better ; the many thoughts
occurring to you trouble you so that you
falter.
Ä. C. I said that I lived to see the promised
personage, the glorious Son ; but you are not
able to comprehend the matter. This pro-
phet's predictions are so plain, that you
would suppose he had seen the things before.
I and my cotemporaries know it to be true
;
but more of this hereafter.
W. S. Who is the other light ?
S. C. It was the son of Ahaz, called Heze-
kiah, a man filled wdth the fear of God, 2
Chron. xxix. 1, who showed himself as a
father and shepherd of Israel, to bring in the
scattered sheep. He sent messengers to the
Israelites, whom Smalansar had led away
captive. He prepared a general passover at
Jerusalem, and invited them all. 2 Chron.
XXX. 1. He made clean the house of the
Lord of the abominations of his ancestors,
cut down the groves, destroyed all the idols,
and as ungodly as his father was, so dis-
204 THE WANDERING SOUL
tinguished was he for piety : he was a great
consolation to all the people ; it appeared as
though the sun had risen once more. 2
Chron. xxxii.
W. S. That was great consolation to theii
sore distress.
S. C. There was great rejoicing on that
account throughout all the land ; but what did
it avail? for their rejoicing was soon followed
by sorrowful seasons ; for scarce had this king
reigned fourteen years, till the Assyrian army
invaded them, and covered the land as grass-
hoppers ; they besieged the fortified cities,
and conquered all before them. Their king
presumed to do unto Jerusalem as his father
did to Samaria ten years before that; he
sent them letters, threatening that if they
would not surrender the city, he would not
be prevailed upon, neither by gifts nor pre-
sents—his heroes stood as lions before the
wall, brandishing their shields and swords,
and displaying the conquering forces of their
great king.
W. S. This must have caused the pious
Hezekiah much fear.
S. C. It is not to be expressed. He col-
lected his people as a father would his chil-
dren, he sighed unto God, and spread the let-
ter before the Lord. 2 Kings xix. 14. Tears
were his weapons, prayer his shield, and the
prophet Isaiah his ambassador at heaven's
court, whence held was promised, and relief
WITH SIMON CLEOPHÄS. 205
sent in a short time, to the astonishment and
joy of all the people.
W. S. Did an army come to his assist-
ance?
S. C. Nothing less than a prince from
heaven with a fiery sword.
W. S. Father, you are telling me won
ders
!
S. C. Weeping and wailing commenced
in the Assyrian camp; some were dying
while sitting at meals, some fell down in full
armour, the sentinels sunk under their own
pikes ; terror prevailed in the tents, so that
none dared to stir, for many of the boisterous
soldiery died suddenly. Some, in attempting
to assist their dying companions, fell down
dead before they could reach them ; the noble
and the princes, who shortly before were
healthy and in full vigour, trembled, and be-
fore a physician could be procured, death's
pallid die was cast ; and what was still more
alarming, none could bring the sad intelli-
gence to the king. He was ignorant of their
wretched condition, for whoever attempted
to approach them from without fell down
dead instantly, as if he were shot with a
lery dart, so that when the haughty king
aicse in the morning with a few remaining,
they were exceedingly sorrowful, for whither
soever they turned their eyes they beheld
the field covered over with dead. Neither
did they hear the beating of the drum, noi
S
C3tEß THE WANDERING SQVJj
. the sound of the trumpet, nor the cry of war :
they never witnessed such a terrible slaugh-
ter. When they called at any of the tents, no
reply was heard other than a call from an ex-
piring one for help ; there was none to com-
fort; so they retreated with a few remain-
ing ones, and thus in one single night no less
than 180,000 were slain. And when the
king returned home, his idols could impart
him no consolation, nor protect him ; for in
the very act of worshipping in the temple
his god Nisroch, his own sons, Adramelech
and Sharezer, slew him.
T^. »S*. O, the great defeat, so much to the
advantage of the citizens ! The soldiers
would probably have plundered their city.
S. C. Their drooping hearts could exhila-
rate themselves with the wine that was left.
The silk sashes, costly raiment, golden and
. silver vessels, chains, rings, and every thing
that was left in the forsaken camp, were
taken as reprisals. This victory confirmed
the pious 01 Jerusalem, and drew forth from
Hezekiah, and other pious persons, the
warmest feelings of thanksgiving and praise
to God for this great unheard-of deliverance.
W. S. It appears that the kingdom of Ju-
dah retrieved itself Was it not restored to
some degree of prosperity ?
5. C. It appeared so for a short time, but
soon the reverse followed. When this pious
king died, after reigning twenty-nine yeara,
WITH SIMON CLE0PHA8. 207
his son succeeded him, and followed his
grandfather's wicked and abominable course
;
nay, he was even guilty of grosser idolatry
than he. 2 Chron. xxxiii.
W. S. This grieves me sorely.
S*. C. And I am not much less grieved.
Although it is painful for me to tell you the
history, yet I will have to give you a brief
statement thereof, so that you will not be so
much surprised when I tell you of the de-
struction of Jerusalem. This son, called
Manasseh, was a heedless young man, and
suffered himself to be deceived of false pro-
phets, so that he restored idolatry and de-
parted from the living God. He worshipped
the sun, moon, and stars; he made his son
pass through the fire, he used enchantments,
he encouraged soothsayers and all manner of
enchantings. He was so completely ab-
sorbed in these things that he lost all affection
for his children, preferring them to be sacri-
ficed to Moloch rather than to be instructed
in the ordinances of the house of the Lord.
W. S. What folly ! what perversity !
S. C. Besides that, he filled Jerusalem
with blood, he had Isaiah the prophet sav^^ed
asunder, because he reproved him of his
abomination. Isaiah was a great comfort to
the house of Israel for the space of ninety
years.
a W. S. O, the barbarous cruelty !
v-^. C. The pious were daily harassed, per-»
208 THE WANDERING SOUL
secuted and murdered, only because they
bore testimony to the truth, and would not
worship the idols of the king. Their blood
flowed as water in the streets, for this king
exceeded all other tyrants for cruelty : he was
more like a bloodthirsty wolf than a reign-
ing prince. None escaped his vengeance, so
that he at last provoked the wrath of God
upon the whole city, and God determined to
inflict severe punishments upo#ii him.
W. S. It appears to me that this king was
more cruel and wicked than the heathens.
S. C. Yes, he was worse, for it appeared
as though all light and probity had departed
and taken up their abode among the heathen.
For Lycurgus shone as a bright luminary
about this time among the Lacedemonians,
like Numa Pompilius among the Romans
;
besides, philosophy began to flourish in
Greece, through such men as Thales, Peri-
ander, Cleobulus, Pittacus, Solon, Chile, Bias,
Archilogus, and the like enlightened men.
This city, which God had chosen as the place
where his name should be established, was
as a desolate place, as a widow forsaken ;
and this was all occasioned by those who
had command of the regiments.
W. S. Father, be pleased to tell me whether
this king was not punished ?
S. C. He was punished, for he fell into the
hands of Merodach Baladan, who bound him
with chains, and led him captive to Babylon^
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 209
where through much weeping, waihng, sigh-
ing, and humbhng himself before God, his
kingdom was restored to him, and he then
wrought a great reformation. He took away
the strange gods and the idols out of the house
of the Lord, and he repaired the altar of the
Lord, commanding Judah to serve the Lord
God of Israel. 2 Chron. xxxiii. 11-8. And after
reigning fifty-five years, he left the kingdom
to his son Amon. After a two years' ungodly
reign, he was slain by his own servants,
and left a son called Josiah, who began lo
reign at eight years of age. At sixteen he
sought after God, and at twenty he destroy-
ed the altar and idols which his father Amon,
the son of Manasseh, set up. 2 Kings xxiii.
3, 4. 2 Chron. xxiv. 1-7. 2 Chron. xxxiv.
W. S. What remarkable changes and vi-
cissitudes this kingdom was subjected to.
S. C. This kingdom was like a faint vari-
egated animal of divers colours. But I will
proceed to tell you of the virtuous king Jo-
siah. 2 Kings i. 22, 23. As he was engaged
in repairing the temple and restoring the
worship of God, he found the book of the law
of the Lord. He rent his clothes, and mourn-
ed to thmk how little this law had been ob-
served, 2 Chron. xxxiv. 15; and w^hen it had
been read to the king and the people, then
Ihey began to demolish all the idols, broke
down the altars of Baalim, cut down the
groves ; the houses of debauchery all around
s2
210 THE WANDERING SOUL
Jerusalem were demolished; the wagon, the
sun and moon, held sacred to Apollo and
Diana, were ground to dust; the worship-
ping of Jupiter and other planets, was abo-
lished; and in other cities the altars were all
destroyed, also the golden calf made in honour
of Jeroboam. The priests were wailing, for
they were cut into pieces, and even as they
offered unto Moloch, so were they made a
sacrifice unto fire ;
yes, they even burnt the
bones of the priests that had been buried on
the altar, as it was predicted by the prophet Ido,
nearly 360 years beforehand. 1 Kings xiii. 1.
W. S. What a noble zeal
!
S. C. After that he gathered together all
Israel, as a shepherd would his sheep, and
kept a passover to the Lord with great joy
and fervid zeal ; and each made a covenant
with the Lord to serve him with full purpose
of heart ; but what followed ? About twelve
years after this reformation, this pious king
was shot with an arrow by Necho, king of
Egypt, as he was going into Assyria to sub-
due that country. 2 Kings xxiii. 29 ; 2 Chron.
xxxiv. 23. Thus w^as the boast of Israel
and the glory of Jerusalem laid low, never
more to rise.
W. S. O, what a lamentable occurrence!
How grieved must have been the pious of
that day
!
6^. C. There was great lamentation and
weeping among all. In the fields of Megid-
'WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 211
do, their lamentation is not to be described ;
they wrung their hands, rent their clothes,
and cried unto heaven. The sweet singers
turned their singing into weeping, and com-
posed lamentations. All the people were
afflicted ; every one sighed ; the tears were
flowing down their cheeks, as if they had lost
their father. Nay, the pious and highly re-
spected Jeremiah lamented the death of
Josiah, for he knew that Jerusalem and all
Judah sustained a great loss in his death.
2 Chron. xxxv. 25-35.
W. S. Thus they were sorely afflicted with
tribulation.
S. C. O my son, it grieves me to tell you,
I believe that none ever will live to see so
much wo and misery as was brought upon
this city, till it was utterly destroyed.
W. S. I am anxious to hear more.
S. C. You ought to bear in mind that there
were two rival empires rising; namely, the
Egyptian and Assyrian. At one time the
former had the ascendency, at another time
the latter ; and both plundered Jerusalem
and the whole country. And it came to pass
that Jehoahaz succeeded his father Josiah in
the kingdom. 2 Kings xxiii. 31. But the
aforementioned Necho was agam victorious,
put him down at Jerusalem, and condemned
the land in a hundred talents of silver and a
talent of gold, and made Eliakim, his brother,
king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed
212 THE WANDERING SOUL
his name to Jehoiakim, and took Jehoahaz
and carried him into Egypt, 2 Chron. xxxvi.
4 ; took with him into his own country a
great deal of gold and silver ; but after living
in peace for four years, there came a mighty
king, called Nebuchadnezzer, out of Assyria,
up against Necho, and conquered him at the
Euphrates, and took possession of the coun-
try as far as to Pelusium. Then all the
country feared greatly, for the soldiers were
determined to' return with some plunder.
The household goods, the cattle, and the
grain in the fields were made a prey ; be-
sides, this city was also threatened with the
returning of the Assyrians, who were now
retiring to their own country. But had this
Jehoiakim walked in the ways of his father,
and in the mean time repented, God would
have been his protector ; but he was worse
than Phalaris, who tyrannized at this time in
Agrigentum. Four years after this the As-
syrians came again into this country, and
compelled them to pay tribute ; this they did
for three successive years, till the eleventh
year of his reign.
W. S. I am astonished that this pious king
Josiah had such ungodly children.
5. C. There was not one that walked in
his father's ways. Jehoiakim was more
wicked than all the others ; besides commit-
ting many abominations, he also shed inno-
cent blood. The prophet Urias, who reproved
I
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 2l3
him for his wickedness, he persecuted, and
followed him into Egypt, and had him
brought back, and executed him with the
sword. ^Jer. xxvi. 20-23. Jeremiah would
have shared the same fate had he not made
his escape,*ifor this pious man stood up in the
port of the temple and taught the multitude
as they went in and out, telling them of the
future calamitous judgments that would be-
fall the city on account of their wickedness.
He sighed, he sorrowed ; nay, he called unto
and warned them, he saw the impending
judgments : all availed nothing, the false pro-
• phets comforted and flattered the people,
and had the king enraged against Jeremiah,
and the king took the roll (book), cut it with
the penknife, and cast it into the fire. Jer.
xxxvi. 23. Judgments were not kept back
long, for in the eleventh )^ear of his reign,
when he refused to pay tribute, and depend-
ing on the king of Egypt for aid, came Ne-
buchadnezzar with a mighty army, and en-
camped before Jerusalem, and made them
terribly afraid by brandishing his splendidly
bright armour ; and Jehoiakim being afraid
opened the gates of the city ; the soldiers,
lion-like, entered and caused great weeping
and lamentation in the city, killed whatever
came in their way ; some they took prisoners,
especially the nobility, among whom were the
prophets Daniel and Ezekiel, together with
Shadrach, Meshech, and Abednego, and
2Ï4 THE WANDERING SOUL
many other young noblemen. Jehoiakim
was bound with chains—^he was not led äVvpy T
captive, but, according to the prophecy^:Jot *
,
remiah, was slain and dragged out ^an:ass, %
unlamented and buried without jSb city.
Afterwards the temple was pillagi^ and all
the silver vessels and other precious; aï^tifeles
were taken. And after Jehoiakim* nwasfxle-
clared king in his father's stead, many were
led away captive into a strange land, and
with much sorrowing bid adieu to their own ,
country.
W. S. This must have been heartrending.
S. C. Oh, my son, one stroke followed •
another. About four months after this the
Assyrians came again, covering the country
with soldiers and cavalry; they encamped
before the city and besieged it. The young
king was demanded, and he and his mother
went out to meet them, with all his princes
and nobles, and as, they had come out they
were shown"chairns, which they beheld with
sorrow. This was not all, but there were
10,000 of the most valuable citizens taken,
such as the mechanics, and others, the very
flower of the city, led into captivity, and
the temple was plundered again to enrich
the treasury of the Assyrian king. All these
visitations and judgments were brought upoji
them on account of their sins; and h^
* Who is also called Jeconiah and Coniah.
—
Tran».
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 215
they even reformed, they were so habituated
to idolatry and the abominations of the hea-
thens, that all the judgments of God could
not have deterred them, as was fully mani-
fested afterwards.
W. S. It is with an equal degree of both
astonishment and sorrow that . I am anxious
to hear the end of their fate. ,.
'S. C. After this youngprince was led away
into captivity, his paternal uncle,. Zedekiah,
was made king.; be was the twenty-second
after Saul and the last king of Judah. In his
reign it went no better than in the reign ot
his predecessors. The prophet Jeremiah
preached unto them and reproved them of
sin^ and through many signs made known
theawaiting destruction; but none gave heed
to what he said. Nay, they mocked and
laughed at him as if he were deranged, be-
cause the king, the nobility, and the priests,
and many other respectable persons under-
stood the matter differently. King Zedekiah
violated his oath, being advised thereto by
evil counsellors, and revolted from the king
of Babylon, who then came up to Jerusa-
lem with a mighty host and besieged the city.
In the mean time the king of Egypt made
ready to aid Zedekiah, upon which the Assy-
rian king marched off with his army to fight
against the Egyptian king. Then the false
prophets cried aloud—"This city shall never
216 THE WANDERING SOUL
be taken." Jeremiah was called a false pro-
phet, and the king was prevailed on to cast
Jeremiah into prison, but he still maintained
that he was right. They struck him, they
abused and mocked him, and would have
fairly killed him, but God did not permit it.
Jer. xxxvii. 15-21.
W. S. But please to tell me, did the king
approve of all this ?
S. C. He was a complete tool in the hands of
the priests and princes; they dictated, and he
obeyed—he was completely under their tu-
telage. The king of Babylon returned again,
and besieged Jerusalem so closely, that nei-
ther dog nor cat could escape from the city.
Then Zedekiah feared exceedingly, and sent
for Jeremiah in the prison, and as he came
and spoke to him the word of the Lord, advis-
ing him that he should deliver up the city,
or it would be destroyed ; the king called the
princes and consulted them, for without their
consent he did not dare do any thing, telling
them that Jeremiah entreated or commanded
him to surrender. He then, at the instance
of the princes and priests, cast Jeremiah into
a stinking dungeon, where he would have
died a miserable death, had not one of the
pious eunuchs, Ebed-Melech, interfered. Jer.
xxxviii. 6.
W. S. O, w^hat have the pious prophets of
God not to suffer, only because they speak
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 217
the truth, and what have the common people
not to endure when they have a cruel and
wicked king !
S. C. This is not to be described. The
famine which was then increased every day
;
the poor died as flies upon the streets. The
spectral and meagre skeletons showed how
great the famine was—their children cried
for bread, sucklings could no longer be nou-
rished at milkless breasts, dying in the arms
of their mothers. Many, for hunger's sake,
did eat skins, and whatever they could get.
Those who were brought up delicately, and
fared sumptuous^, had now no bread to eat
;
others fell down. The impoverished citizens
went out to resist the sentinels, who stood as
bold as lions. Besides famine there was a
sore pestilence in the city. In short, the citi-
zens were reduced to the horrid necessity of
eating one another. And, withal, this wretched
people could not see that it was their iniqui-
ty that brought this upon them.
W. S. How long was the city besieged ?
S. C. About eighteen months.
W. S. It is a wonder that they did not
give heed to Jeremiah and surrender the city
in time.
«S. C They flattered themselves that the
Chaldeans would march off*, for their false
prophets made them believe that God would
protect his people, saying, " Fear not, this is
the Lord's temple, this is the place of his
T
218 THE WANDERING SOUL
offerings : God will not permit this place to b(
destroyed, but much more shall the goldei
vessels which had been carried off be re
stored to you, for this is the place where hi;
name dwelleth." Jer. xxviii. 2-4. Thui
they encouraged the faint-hearted citizens
and thereby many were slain in battle as tht
Chaldeans entered the city. Those who fol
lowed the advice of Jeremiah, and surren-
dered, were saved ; but then they were looked
upon as deserters and traitors to the city, as
they considered Jeremiah.
W. S. O, the subtle deception of the false
prophets ! Could they not be persuaded that
it was of more importance to keep pure the
temple of the heart from the pollutions of sin
than to protect the temple at Jerusalem
against the Chaldeans ?
S. C. Had they done so they would also
have retained the outward temple, for God
seeketh nothing other than that the heart be
free from sin. But to come to a close.
When the citizens of the besieged city were
quite exhausted, and nearly starved, a gene-
ral assault was made by the enemy on the
9th of the fourth month of the eleventh year
of Zedekiah's reign, and the city was carried
by storm about midnight, and every place
was filled with blood and slaughter. But
when the king saw this, he, with his wives
and children, and some few of his friends,
escaped privately out of the city. But they
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 219
could not escape the vengeance of God.
They were pursued, and soon taken and
brought to Nebuchadnezzar, at Riblah, a city
of Syria, in the land of Hamath, afterwards
called Antioch. Here they beheld each other
with sorrowful hearts; they were dragged
about at night. Thus they were sensibly re-
minded of their treatment towards the pro-
phet Jeremiah.
W. S. How awful must haev been the de-
struction in Jerusalem !
S. C. That you may imagine. My heart
trembles ! None were spared ; there was no
respect shown to person. The enraged sol-
diery ransacked the whole city and slew all
they found. The whole city was filled with
blood, slaughter, and dread carnage. The
oriests were murdered in the sanctuary
;
v\'omen were defloured, and the virgins dis-
graced and slain ; the young men who escaped
the sword were made slaves. Every street
was filled with the noise and alarm of war.
Some were begging for mercy, but mercy
was denied them. Nebuzaradan, who con-
ducted the siege, had all the fortifications of
Jerusalem destroyed, plundered the temple,
carried the best of the people that remained
alive captives to Babylon, and left the poorer
sort to till the ground.
W. S. Father, please to tell me the remain-
der of this history.
S. C. The temple, which was a sanctuary
320 THE WANDERING SOUL
to all the people for the space of 427 years,
and a crown to Israel, was now set on fire.
All the curious carved wood work was
burnt. The smoke of the whole city now
ascended in thick columns ; the palaces and
stately houses tumbled down; the marble
pavements were covered over by the fallen
walls, the gates were broken down, the streets
were one heap of ruins; in short, the confla-
gration continued till all was burned to cin-
ders. Nothing remained but a few fragments
of the walls as standing monuments of the
former glory and greatness of the city.
W. S. How changeable are all things
!
S. C. About that time there also was a
great city in Abyssinia destroyed, called
Nineveh ; it was destroyed by Xerxes, the
king of the Modes.
W. S. But before you enter into the his-
tory of foreign nations, please to give me a
fuller account of Zedekiah the king.
S. C. This miserable man,when he appear-
ed before theking Nebuchadnezzar, who,with
his princes, was sittiirg upon the throne, was
then reproached with his breach of fidelity
and allegiance. Nebuchadnezzar ordered his
sons, and the princes that were taken with
him, to be slain before his eyes ; after which
terrible spectacle his own eyes were put out.
2 Kings XXV. 7. He was blind before, though
seeing the distress of Jeremiah, and was
fully convinced of. his error in giving heed
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 221
to false prophets. Nebuzaradan, who had the
command of the army, took also Seraiah, the
high-priest, Zephaniah, the second priest,
several of the king's principal officers, and
sixty of the chief inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and brought them to the king of Babylon,
who put them all to death, and thus the king-
dom of Judah ended, after existing 500 years,
in the 43d year of the Grecian Olympiad. In
Assyria reigned king Nebuchadnezzar ; and
at Rome, Lucius Tarquinus Prisons, the
15th king of that city, which was built 145
years ago, and is now^ prospering like Car-
thage, which is 136 years older than Rome.
W. S. Did you not say that God had pro-
mised David an abiding, an everlasting king-
dom ? How does it happen that it is already
ended '? And it appears that the kingdoms
of the heathens, who had not this assurance,
are more prosperous than that of the children
of Israel
!
S. C. That is true, it appears so on first
view ; but amidst all their tribulations, this
promise was renewed unto them by the pro-
phets Isaiah, Jeremiah, and others, not only
in Judea, but also while they were at Baby-
lon, in the midst of their oppressions. Yea,
the time, the place, and circumstances were
described, the place where, how, and under
what circumstances this king should be born,
who would again restore the sceptre to Ju-
dßh, and it so happened ; although you see
T 2
222 THE WANDERING SOUX
me, a decrepit and aged person, sit and weep
in this ruined kingdom, and where nothing
is to be seen but the ruins of walls and state-
ly palaces, and it appears to be incredible ;
but the worm that rose out of the ashes
of this phoenix exceeded and disappointed
all. What, my son, do you expect one dis-
aster to follow another ? Do you not know
all things are liable to be changed; and
you look for what God promised in the days
of Adam to be fulfilled. Thus the degene-
rate race has been preserved so long, and
through malice and ignorance, persecuted
and killed the prophets of God ; therefore
has this visitation of God's righteous judg-
ments been brought upon them. But you
bring me into a sea of troubles, for when I
reflect on the visitation of Jerusalem, I am
made sorrowful.
W. S. Father, I know that on account of
your sorrows, you are much perplexed.
Now, I will listen attentively to your narra-
tion, for I am ambitious to hear how this
people ultimately fared.
S. C. Well may I say with the prophet
Jeremiah, ''
O, that my head were a fountain
of water, to lament the slain of my people
;"
for the tribulations which he saw in his day
were as great as those which I saw. But, to
answer your question in the chronological
order of history, be it then known to you first,
that there was, a great joy occasioned among
With simon cleophaS. Ö23
the poor people of the land by this occur-
rence ; the great and mighty, to whom the
poorer class were obliged to pay much of the
money earned by hard labours, were now re-
moved, or carried away captive ; and the
poor could now enjoy the fruits of their own
labour. In this respect it was a blessing to
the majority. It appeared that a new and
golden era was to take its beginning, for all
the possessions reverted to those who tilled
the ground ; and this golden pefiod would
have continued, if the few wicked who were
left in the country had not changed it into
iron, in that they slew Gedaliah, the govern-
or of Judah, under whose protection they
enjoyed perfect peace. Jeremiah opposed
this horrible act, and then they fled into
Egypt* and took Jeremiah with them, and
there worshipped idols ; and although he re-
proved and warned them of their sins, they
stoned him to dcctth, and the land of Judah
lay waste for the space of seventy years, as
it had been predicted
!
W. S. But how did the Jews fare at Babv-
lon?
S. C. Your question is a proper one ; but
don't you see night is approaching, and that
I, an old man, should needs go to rest ?
• They fled to MigJol over against Baalzephon, near the Red
Sea ; at Tahpanhes or Daphane, not far from Pelusium at Naph or
Memphis, situate above the parting of the Nile, or where Ddta be-
gins, and in the country of Pathros or Thebais, so called from the
city of Thebes.
—
Tran».
224 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. I heartily wish the day were three
times as long, if it were not too fatiguing to
tell me more about them. I am exceedingly
anxious to hear.
S. C. For my part I would be willing, but
there is a medium in all things. If you
please, come to-morrow again to this same
spot, then we will conclude their history. If
you will have the goodness to go with me to
my house, you are perfectly welcome. Yon-
der is my house ; all things are at your ser-
vice that I have, and I trust you will be
served therewith.
W S. Father, you offer me more than I
desire. I am exceedingly well pleased with
your company ; but it will be advisable that
I meditate on your narration in retirement.
I will find a place where to spend the night,
even should it be in one of those decayed
buildings : to-morrow morning early I will
be here, for I am very anxious to hear the
end of this history. Good night, father.
S C. Good night to you, my sou.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHA.S. 225
DIALOGUE IV.
[thb second part of this dialogue comprises a period of
six hundred and five years from the babylonian cap-
tivity to the birth of christ.]
Wandering Soul. The beloved gray-head
ed old man, with his white beard, is alread»;
waiting on Mount Zion. I do not knov
how he can ascend the mountain so easily ^
for, if I am rightly informed, this mountain
is eight hundred feet above the surrounding
level ; besides, the mountain is nearly over-
grown with thistles and covered with stone ;
but zeal and love effect much. He sees me
coming, and is ready to serve me in relating
history. Good morning, aged father ; may
God enlighten your heart, as the bright sun
does the earth.
Simon Cleophas. This is a good wish, my
son ; why do you come so late ?
W. S. I detained myself in the city, in
viewing the broken-down walls, on which I
saw a great many owls' nests, some crows'
nests, nests of swallows : all these things ex-
cited new ardour within me to understand
the history. As you have told me all about
this city, in chronological order, what befell
it till the first destruction thereof, and the
leading away of the children of Israel into
226 THE WANDERING SOUL
captivity, 1 would therefore entreat you to
tell me further what befell this people in. a
foreign land.
S. C. There we left oif our dialogue, but
you may imagine how they felt, being one
hundred and seventy miles from home,
and among a strange nation. Every thing
was different from theirs in their owm coun-
try, the mountains, the rivers, the forests, the
fields, the animals, also the customs and man-
ners of the people differed from theirs ; they
were grumly looked upon, their laws de-
spised, their customs rejected; they were
laughed and mocked at as fools, serving a
God who could not protect them. How
many a sigh this occasioned ! They met
witli what David had predicted long before-
hand, saying, " By the rivers of Babylon,
there we sat dow^n ;
yea, we wept when we
remembered Zion. We hanged our harps
upon the willows in the midst thereof" Ps.
cxxxvii. 1, 2. Often did they reflect upon their
wicked course of living when they were in
better circumstances, and then lamented their
own condition most bitterly :
''
O, that we
had to live over our past lives, how^ diligent-
ly and zealously we would serve the Lord !
How we would love one another. How ready
we would be to do the commands of the
Lord; and our tongues we would employ in
the praises of God." But all these lamenta-
tions availed them nothing. They were
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 227
obliged to accommodate themselves to the
time and circumstances in which they were
placed. Their princes were laid in chains.
Those who escaped the sword were obliged
to serve Nebuchadnezzar. They all, with-
out exception, were compelled to bow and
yield to the haughty Chaldeans; whether
they were willing or not, they had to do it
;
and thus, in their bondage, reflect on their
former course, how they had mispent their
day of improvement ; instead of serving God,
they spent their time in hoarding up riches,
and had their affections placed upon the
things of this world. Revelling and surfeit-
ing occupied much of their time ; nay, rob-
bings murdering, and other abominations.
Now they could form some idea of the hor-
rid feelings of their fellow-men, whom they
tortured with excruciating punishments.
Here they might enjoy the feelings and
pains the prophets had to experience, while
they led them to prisons and tortures,
weeping. Now they wept and lamented
over their conduct towards them, but it was
too late.
W. S. From your remarks I conclude
that it was much bettirr for them that they
were thus afflicted, than to have continued
in their former course of sensuality and sin.
S. C. Your observation is correct, my son
;
for all things are permitted of God to work
for our good ; but it would have been better
2'28 THE WANDERING SOtlL
for them had they not brought this upon
themselves.
W. S. I acknowledge it to be so, but I
have another question : were they not com-
pelled to Worship the idols ofthat country?
S. C. I have many wondrous things to tell
concerning that. King Nebuchadnezzar had
conquered many nations—he made many tri-
butary to him, the Ammonites, the Moabites,
the Egyptians, even from the borders of Ly-
bia to Spain. The success of his conquest
ascribed all to his idols, especially to Jupiter
Belus, who was worshipped by his ancestors,
in honour of whom he made a great golden
image, Dan. iii. 5, and commanded that all
should worship the image ; and all manner
of musical instruments were played at the
time, to induce them to worship; and to com-
pel them, he had a fiery furnace prepared for
all who refused. Thus you may imagine what
the feelings were of those who would have
preferred death to worshipping idols. They
first attempted the nobility, to have them
worship the idols. The three young noble-
men who were led captive with Jehoiachin,
as I told you before, were first commanded to
fall down and w^orship the idol. The king
threatened them, but they refused ; they were
then shown the fiety furnace, but this did
not move them, and although they were ot
the nobility, they were bound and cast into
the fiery furnace. But, behold what happen-
WTTH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 229
ed ; the fire lost its power, and they who were
to be burnt seemed to enjoy themselves as in
a plea-sant garden, walking to and fro in the
midst of the flames, instead of weeping and
wailing. Heavenly music was heard in the
furnace, and instead of a glimmering flame,
the brightness of an angel was seen, which
was so pleasant to behold, that when the king
saw this great and unexpected miracle, his
cruelty was changed into benevolence and
levity ; otherwise these Jews would have
fared difl'erently. They would have been
cruelly roasted, nay, perhaps they would
have all been extirpated.
W. S. You are relating astonishing things.
S. C. A like miracle happened when Dan-
iel was cast into the lion's den to be devour-
ed, because he refused to worship the golden
image. Dan. vi. 16. But it appeared that
the ferocity of them was changed into the
gentleness of lambs ; they licked him ; to be
torn of them there was no danger, because
they were not hungry; but they were de-
prived of their ferocity till their accusers were
cast into the den, then they lost all gentle-
ness ; they opened their jaws, and their de-
vouring propensity was increased, so that the
very instant they were thrown into the den,
they were devoured.
W. S. Father, this must have been a holy-
prophet
V
230 THE WANDERING SOUL
»S. C. He was also filled with wisdom, that
none of the magi, the astrologers, or courtiers
were to be compared with him. Nothing
was too difficult for him to resolve ; nay, he
predicted not only what was to befall the
Jews, touching their utter extirpation as a
people, the advent and commission of the truly
Anointed, his everlasting kingdom, and his
final judgment, but also predicted concern-
ing the heathen monarchies ; their condition
and progress, their true state, and how long
they were to continue; and all this with so
much distinctness, that his book of prophecy
seems to be rather a history of past events
than a prophecy of coming events. And al-
though Solon and some other Greeks were
highly renowned, yet they could not be com-
pared with Daniel. He was a holy and wise
man. The aforesaid king Nebuchadnezzar
and his son, Evil-Merodach, reigned thirty
years. 2 Kings xxv. 27, who released Jecho-
nias from the prison. After him reigned Bel-
shazzar twelve years, who was a great sen-
sualist. At a great feast, while tasting the
wine freely, he commanded to bring the
golden and silver vessels which his father had
taken out of the temple of the Lord; and
made them instruments of foul debauch. He
and his princes, his wives and concubines
drank out of them—they all drank freely
—
drank excessively, and worshipped their
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 231
gods* of gold, of silver, of iron, of brass,
wood and stones; but this midnight revel-
ling cost him dear, nothing less than his life
and his kingdom. Daniel, who survived both
these kings, was also highly esteemed of Da-
rius, king of the M^des, under whose reign
he died, and in the city Ecbatana his name
is known to this day ; for that magnificent
city bears testimony to the magnanimity of
this great man, Daniel, of prophetic spirit.
W. S. O, the greatness of this man ! But
you intimated something touching Belshaz
zar ; I would like to hear something more of
him.
S. C. To relate all how this happened re-
quires a long history. There was a king of
Media, called Astiages, who commanded his
sister's child, called Cyrus, to be thrown be
fore some wild beasts ; for it had been foretold
that this child was born to destroy him and
his kingdom. But he who was appointed to
kill the child saved his life, and raised him.
After Cyrus grew to be a man, he, with the
* Passingly strange as it may appear in the case before us, that
these temperate topers, while under the influence of strong drink,
»hould now think of worshipping their gods, it will not appear qiiite
is strange when we pause and look around us. Look upon nominal
professors of religion, we mean such as attend to all the ordinances
of the house of the Lord and drink a dram freely,—and, alas, there
are too many of this description, and when we see and hear them
talk long and loudest when under the exhilarating influence of a
necessary morning, noon, evening, and hefore-going-to-bed dram,
something to do their stomach good and clear the head ! We know
several professors, deceivers of the brethren, that talk most on the
sijbject of religion when finlf clnnik
!
—Tvans.
232 THE WANDERING SOUL
aid of Darius, invaded Media, and extended
his provinces, and at last took possession of
Babylon also ; even at the very hour when
Belshazzar was engaged in revelling, and
making debauchery of the sacred vessels, as
already related, and being apprized of his
fate by a handwriting on the wall, which
caused him to fear and tremble exceedingly.
These were presages of his impending de-
struction. I say in the very act of revelling
Cyrus took him by surprise. Thus ended the
Assyrian empire after it had subsisted 1636
years, and having had thirty-eight kings from
the time of Nimrod, the mighty hunter. And
from that time Cyrus dated the beginning of
the Persian monarchy, who, with a powerful
army, overran Syria, Egypt, Armenia, and
Asia, and conquered, besides many more,
Croesus, king of Lydia.
W. S. Wonderful revolutions in the king-
doms of this world ! But, generally speaking,
new lords make new laws. Did this revolu-
tion not affect the Jews ?
S. C. Yes, it did ; they derived a decided
advantage from it, for Cyrus emancipated the
Jews in the first year of his reign, after they
were seventy years in captivity ; and he did
not only deliver up to them the sacred ves-
sels, but also encouraged them to rebuild Je-
rusalem and the temple, as it had been pro-
phesied beforehand. 2 Chron. xxxix. 22.
Ezra i. 1. Then there was great rejoicing
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 233
among the Jews ; they came from every part
under the command of their chief man Ze-
rubbabel, who was the son of Salathiel, the
son of Jeconiah, king of the Jews. Then
was the dispersed kingdom changed into a
principality, and their bondage into perfect
liberty. AVhen more than 42,000 were col-
lected, besides women, children, men-ser-
vants and maid-servants, and also a great
number of horses, mules, camels, and asses
laden with gold, silver, and other household
goods, besides the sacred utensils belonging
to the house of the Lord, all came up out ot
Chaldea into Jerusalem, which was one deso-
late waste, even as it is at present. They had
to travel about 170 miles through wilderness
and deserts, as well as through highly culti-
vated parts of the country, protected on all
sides by the hand of God, without any other
protection. Thus they travelled onward till
they had a full view of the city. The music,
the sound of trumpets, of cymbals, of harps,
is more readily imagined than described
;
there was a general burst of joy.
W. S. It appears to me that I almost real-
ize in my own feelings their joys. But what
happened to them after they had arrived at
the city ?
S. C. As soon as they had unladen their
horses, mules, camels, and asses, and put
them to pasture, they commenced making
preparations to build. They made ready their
u2
234 THE WANDERING SOUL
tools and implements ; foundations were dug,
the masons stretched their lines, the hoary-
headed gave directions, one standing here,
another there ; here one weeping, there ano-
ther weeping, in reflecting on the former days
of the city. The high-priest Joshua, with
the chief fathers, superintended the building.
Ezra iii. 10-13. And as soon as the founda-
tion of the temple was laid, the echoing air
reverberated with joyous sound of music,
mingled with the shouts of the people, prais-
ing the Lord God for his goodness and mercy.
The foundation of the temple was laid with
great joy and solemnity about the 20th of
April, in the second year after their return ;
but the old men amongst them, who had seen
the former temple built by Solomon, wept,
because it so little corresponded with the
magnificence of that structure.
W. S. What a wonderful noise
!
S. C. This would have all been to their
great joy had not dark and lowering clouds
of tribulation intercepted the rays of prospe-
rity.
W. S. What kind of clouds were these ?
S. C. It appears that God proves his chil-
dren in many diverse ways. Before the tem-
ple was near finished, there came messengers,
sent by persons envious of their prosperity,
commanding them, on penalty of danger, not
to prosecute the work.
W. S. 0, the sudden change! How did
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 235
they dare to oppose them when Cyrus had
given them permission to build the city and
temple ?
S. C. This king was involved in many
wars, and was ultimately conquered by the
Scythian queen Thomyris, and beheaded,*
because he before had beheaded her son, and
many other princes ; and she cast his head in
a vessel filled with blood ; saying, "Drink thy
fill of blood, for which thou hast thirsted for
a long time." Cyrus was succeeded in the
kingdom by his son Cambyses, a cruel tyrant
;
he was instigated by the Samonians, Ammon-
ites, and Moabites, and other enemies of the
Jews. But after reigning six years, he fell
upon his own sword and died; and he was
succeeded by Darius Hystaspes, a virtuous
and wise king, during whose reign the Jews
were inspired, and being encouraged by the
prophet Hag^ai and Zacharias, they com-
menced building with renewed vigour, hav-
ing the assurance of the king that he was
pleased with them.
W. S. So then the building went on.
S. C. The temple was finished in the sixth
* Authors are herein much divided ; some pretending that he was
slain in an engagement with the people of Samos, others that he
was taken prisoner and hanged. Some affirm that he died of a
wound. In my opinion, it is very probable that he died peaceably
in his own country, about seventy years of age. after he had reigned
seven years from the death of his uncle and copartner Darius.
—
Trans.
236 THE WANDERING SOTTL
year of the reign of Darius, and was dedi
cated w4th great solemnity ; but the walls
and other buildings of the city were left
in their desolate condition for the want of
people and proper arrangements. Shortly
after Xerxes succeeded in the kingdom,
Ezra,* a scribe, came up to Jerusalem with a
mighty and wealthy people ; and Ezra reign-
ed but a short time till the arrival of Nehe-
miah, the cup-bearer to Ahasuerus. Imme-
diately on his arrival, they all set about re-
pairing the walls, and completed them with-
in fifty-two days, notwithstanding the oppo-
sition they met w^ith from Sanballat, Tobiah,
and others. They completed the repairs of
the walls, and set up the gates thereof, and
dedicated them and the city, in a solemn
manner, unto the Lord. During the reign
of this king, all things were restored to per-
fect order ; a proper ceremony was intro-
duced among the Jews, and thus did Nehe-
miah as much in promoting the prosperity of
this people as Junius Brutus and Lucius did
thirty years before in repairing the city of
Rome, in the reign of the seventh king, and
after the kingdom had subsisted two hun-
* Ezra held the administration of both civil and ecclesiastical af-
fairs ; but, upon his being appointed governor, he confined himself to
the care of ecclesiastical affairs only ; and it is said that he revised
and digested most of the books of the Scripture, settled the canon of
the Old Testament, and fixed the number of books to twenty-two.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 237
dred and forty-four years ; and Rome was from
thenceforth governed by a mayor, as the Jews
were by princes and high-priests.*
W. S. Who w^as the last prophet ?
S. C. Malachit was the last of the lesser
prophets, and lived about four hundred years
before Christ, of whose coming he prophe-
sied.
W. S. So I hear that the light of the pro-
phet ceased from this time forth, and that
the prophecy was sealed.
S. C. But God did not leave the world in
darkness, as if he were not further to instruct
the people ; not to tell you of the Cybeles,
who prophesied in some remarkal:)le instances,
there w^ere still enlightened, learned, and
very useful men in Greece at this time; there
was Simonides, Pythagoras, and Anacreon
—
the laughing De,mocritus,J who continually
laughed at the follies of mankind, who dis-
tracted themselves with care ; and the weep-
ing Heraclitus, who wept at the follies of man-
* Nehemiah's death was followed with a change of government
at Jerusalem. Judea had no longer a governor of its own ; it
was united to the prefecture of Syria, the rulers of which commit-
ted the administration of both civil and ecclesiastical aöairs to the
high-priests for the time being.
—
Trans.
\ Malachi was not the proper but the generical name of a cer-
tain prophet, and signifies my angel, or my messenger. Some of
the ancients suppose that Ezra was the person to whom this name
is to be attributed.
—
Trans.
% He was the author of the doctrine of atoms, and first taught
that the milky-way was occasioned by a confused light from a mul-
titude of stars. He may be considered as the parent of experimen-
tal philosophy. He died 361 years before Christ.—Trans,
238 THE WANDERING SOUL
kind. Both these contributed to the improve-
ment of mankind, entreating them to good,
saying all was vanity : and of this they had
a striking instance in the loss of Xerxes'
s
army of one million of men, when he in-
vaded Greece; and how the conqueror
Themistocles was banished from Athens;
and the like vanities, and wicked works of
the world.
W. S. Father, if you please, tell me more
concerning the Jews.
S. C. They suffered many things. They
stood in danger of being wholly extirpated.
W. S. Why were they in danger?
S. C. After the son of Xerxes, Artaxerxes,
surnamed Longimanus, succeeded in the
kingdom, and by the advice of his nobles,
divorced queen Vashti, and married Esther,
an orphan brought up by her kinsman, Mor-
decai ; and when Mordecai refused to bow
down before a mighty prince called Haman,
then he had a decree passed that all the Jews
were to be slain in one day. This he did to
avenge^ himself of Mordecai, without reflect-
ing on the injustice of the act; the sighings of
the innocent, the weeping and wailing of
orphans and distressed widows, w^hich was
general, and especially in this city ; all this
he did not take to heart. The enemies of
the Jews rejoiced to have the opportunity of
whetting their swords to execute the decree.
Some mocked and laughed at their calamity
With simon cleophas. 2'39
The more honourable did not approve of it,
and censured this act highly. When their
despair was the greatest, God, who controls
all according to the pleasure of his will, most
wonderfully relieved his chosen people. As
the decree was about executing, Haman was
hanged upon a tree, and Mordecai was pro-
moted to be the second in the kingdom.
This intelligence was soon received throug^h-
out all the land, by means of the posts. The
Jews assembled and praised God for this
great deliverance.
W. S. Did they expect that their ancient
kingdom would be again restored, and flou-
rish as it did before ?
S. C. Far from it. It is true that their
priests ruled quietly : for instance, Eliashib,
Jehoiakim's successor, reigned more than
forty years, till the time of Jehoiada, the high-
priest ; but this was far from restoring the
kingdom to its former greatness, for the
world and the kingdoms thereof are subject
to many vicissitudes. Although I have not
time fully to relate all, I will barely mention
the heavy wars which exhausted Greece
—
the Athenian and Lacedemonian wars—be-
sides the pestilence, which walks in dark-
ness and lays waste and makes desolate,
scourged them. Many suffered so excruci-
atingly, that to seek relief they ran into the
waters, and thus many perished. At the
same time, other countries were sorely afflict
240 THE WANDERING SOUL
ed by war, famine, and pestilence ; and why
should they care about the external grandeur
of their kingdom, because life is frail and un-
certain ; and even the wdse philosophers of
that day, such as Socrates, Hippocrates, Aris-
tophanes, and others, were more concerned
about their souls than about any thing else.
W. S. Nevertheless, is it not right to set a
proper estimate upon the things of this world ?
S. C. I acknowledge it is, therefore I am
relating you the history of secular matters;
however, with a view to lead you to that
which pertains to your spiritual welfare.
W. S. What befell the Persian kingdom ?
S. C. After the demise of Longimanus,
who had reigned 44 years, Darius Nothus
succeeded to rule. In the eighth year of
his reign, Johanan became governor of the
Jews, and reigned fifty-three years. When
Darius Nothus left the throne, Artaxerxes
Mnemon succeeded him, and reigned 36
years, after he had conquered his brother
Cyrus. After him reigned Ochus 26 years
in the Persian monarchy, and made many
tributary.
W. S. Many occurrences must have taken
place during this time among other nations.
S. C. Yes, indeed, my son ; however, I
need not take up much time in relating how
the Gauls had nearly made themselves mas
ters of Rome, nor to tell you of the glory of
Greece, which was illuminated by their wise
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 241
men, Plato, Diogenes, Aristotle,* and other
excellent men ; nor of the fame of the great
monument Mausoleum,! which was a wonder
of the age. All these are rather too insigni-
ficant to occupy much of our attention, they
are all transitory. For where are the great
walls of Babylon, built more than 2000 years
ago by queen Semiramis, which were sixty
miles long, and eighty-seven feet thick, and
350 feet in height?—yes, where is Semiramis
with her innumerable army of 1,700,000
soldiers and 200,000 of cavalry, which she
broug^ht into the field of battle asfainst Zo-
roaster, and conquered him, who attempted to
repulse her with an army of not less than
400,000. Where are they all ?
W. S. How is it possible to collect so many
people ?
S. C. O, my son, that is nothing strange,
for our forefathers lived a long time ; and the
human family would necessarily increase
greatly. For suppose one of the fathers would
have had ten sons and ten daughters in one
hundred years, and each, in the same space,
were to have ten sons and daughters ; thus in
the course of one thousand years the popula-
tion would not be short of one thousand mil-
lions.
• Aristippus, Xenophon, Isocrates, disciples of Socrates.
—
Trans.
f Called Mausoleum, because Artemisia, queen of Caria, erected
one in memory of her husband Mausolus : from this monument all
other magnificent sepulchres and tombs have received the sam«(
name.
—
Trans.
X
242 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. Father, you are telling me wonders
!
S. C. Yes, my dear son; these are alt
nothing. Where is the temple* of Diana at
Ephesns, the ornament of all Asia? The
temple is no more, nothing but the remain-
ing ruins thereof are to be seen. Where is
the Olympiad temple, with the great image
of Jupiter, so artfully made ? Where are all
the Olympiad games ? Wliere is the great
Mausoleum, which queen Artemisia erected
to the memory of her husband ? Is there one
stone of it remaining ? This will be the fate-
of Pharos, the Alexandrine wonder, of the
Egyptian p3a'amids, no matter how splendid
and durable, for there is nOtliing in this world
of an abiding nature. What were people
wont to say of the great Colossus, the brazen
image of Rhodes, which stood with distended
legs upon the two ,moles which formed the
entrance of the harbour, serving as a light-
house for mariners. It was the wonder of the
age, f and after having stood two hundred
years it w^as broken off at the knees, and
* The temple of Diana, which was so spleiitlid an edifice as to be
styled one of the seven wonders of the world. Its erection occupied,
according to Pliny, 220 years. The building was 425 feet long and
220 broad, and contained 127 columns, each the gift of a king.
The architect was Ctesiphore.
t It passed for one of the seven wonders of the world. It was the
workmanship of Chares, a pupil of Lysippus, who was employed
twelve years in making it. It was erected 300 years before Christ,
and after having stood but 60 years (not 200, as the author says), it
fell down by an earthquake. In the year A. D. 672 it was sold by
the Saracens, who were masters of the island, to a Jewish merchant
of Edessa, who loaded 900 camels with brass. —Traiii.
WITH SÏMOÏ^' CLEOPÏIAS. 243
thrown down by an earthquake ; and the fall
of it into the water caused a sounding noise,
as if the city of Rhodes itself would sink.
Behold fortified cities, how they are falling
into ruins i What a great city was Tyre, one
of the greatest seaports in the world ; nay,
the very emporium of commerce, bidding
defiance to Alexander, because they were
surrounded by sea and isolated from land
;
yea, it appeared as if they were wedded to
the sea, and could not be divorced from it.
But hear the sequel. Alexander the Great
joined the island to the continent by a mole,
and took it w^ith much difiiculty, after a siege
of seven months, on the 20tli of August, B.C.
532. He .entered the miy, laid it waste,
and turned their splendid palaces into stables
for his horses. But I will ^top with this his-
tory, and will tell you more concerning my
own nation, which had to suffer so much
from the heathens.
W. S. Father, will you be kind enough to
tell me about your nation?
S. G. It is lamentable how the sacred
priesthood was violated ; for Johanan, the
successor of Joida, slew Joshua in the temple,
and polluted the holy place with blood; there
fore did Bagoses, the Persian governor, ha
rass the land for seven years, and esteemed
our nation the less on account of the murder
committed.
W. S. 0, lamentable occurrence
'
244 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. Besides this, they met with another
tribulation ; for the aforesaid Johanan leaving
two sons, the elder called Jabus, being high-
priest, the other called Manasses, who mar-
ried a Samaritan w^oman, which caused a
division in Israel; and what made it still
worse, he built a temple on Mount Gerizim,
confirmed the Samaritans in their error, and
persuaded many to offer there, disregarding
the law of Moses, and despising the whole
nation. To describe the miseries thereof is
not in my power.
W. S. Was there none in the Persian
empire that could have settled this matter?
S. C. Alas! every thing was ominous of
evil in that kingdom.
W.S. Why, father?
»S. C. I will tell you. After Arsanes, the
son of Ochus, was succeeded by Darius,
Alexander, Philip's son, king of Macedonia,
rose up against him ; and in a very short
time he subdued and conquered all Greece,
and crossed the Hellespont, and went into
Persia, and having many skilled warriors, he
conquered the king Darius's chief command-
er, and took possession at the same time of
the kingdoms of Lydia, Jonia, Caria, and
many more. And when king Darius went
out against him, although he had three times
the force that Alexander had, still, contrary
to all human expectation, he was defeated and
routed ; so he fled, and his mother, wife, and
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 245
children were taken prisoners of Alexander,
Mdio pushed onward in his career, conquering
all the provinces of Asia Minor. He obtained
two other celebrated victories over Darius at
Issus and Arbela ; took Tvre, after an obsti-
nate siege of seven months, and slaughte-red
2000 of the inhabitants in cool blood, and
made himself master of Egypt, Media, Ly-
dia, and Persia. In the mean time, when
Sanballat, the governor of Samaria, saw the
success of Alexander, he united with him
and procured a grant for the aforesaid Ma-
nasseh to build on Mount Gerizini, near Sa-
maria, a temple Jike that at Jerusalem, and
thus this division in Judea was brought about
neajrly 200 years after the Babylonian capti-
vity.^ .
W. jS. 0, the wonderful history ! But how
was it; with Jerusalem ? Did not the people
greatly fear at Jerusalem ?
S. C Certainly they did; and they )iad
much reason to fear ; for when Jaddua did
not immediately ebey Alexander, he tlireat-
ened the ciiy with resentment. And after
he had conquered Tyre, Gaza, and -other
cities, he marched with a large army against
Jerusalem, to punish the Jews. The people
wept and wailed, the high-priest was suppH-
cating God ; and being directed by a nigiit
vision, met the conqueror in his priestly
robes with the other priests attending him in
proper habits^ and all the people in white
X2
246 THE WANDERING SOUL
garments. Alexander, being struck with this
sight, saluted the high-priest with a rehgious
veneration, embraced him, and declared that
ho himself, in Macedonia, had seen this very-
same person, thus dressed, in a night vision,
encouraging him to pursue his expedition
against the Persians, and promising him suc-
cess.
W. S. Behold the dealings of God ! how
wondrous are His ways !
S. C. Therefore did he grant this city and
the whole country great liberty ; and giving
them many presents to adorn the temple. He
then marched into Egypt, and took posses-
sion of the whole country ; built the city of
Alexandria* on the western side of the Nile,
near the coast of the Mediterranean, and
extended his conquests to Spain. The next
spring he hastened to find out Darius Codo-
manus, king of Persia, whom he had routed
once before, and he now vanquished him in
a final decisive battle, and became master of
Persia ; and thus ended the Persian monar-
chy, after subsisting 208 years, and the Gre-
cian monarchy raised upon the ruins thereof,
nearly 300 years after the Babylonian capti-
'N'ity.
W. S. It appears that Jerusalem and Judea
were about to flourish once more.
* He peopled Alexandria with several nations, among them were
many Jews, to whom be gave Öie same privileges as to his own Ma-
cedonians.
—
Trans,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 247
S. C. Alas ! the afflictions of this people
were innumerable; for shortly after the death
of Alexander, and while his heirs were con-
tending for power, Ptolemy Lagus van-
quished Jerusalem by fraud ; for in the tenth
year of Onias the high-priest, having under-
stood that the Jews would rather sulfer death
than take up arms and defend themselves on
their Sabbath, he stormed Jerusalem, and
took it without any resistance on that day,
and carried above 120,000 of them captives
into Egypt.
W. S. Alas ! what distress
!
»S. C. But it is worthy of honourable and
everlasting mentioning, that the pious Pto-
lemy Philadelphus, the successor of Lagus,
restored all these Jews, to the number of
120,000, to their former liberty ; and besides,
he evinced a great interest in divine things,
finished the college of learned men, and the
famous library at Alexandria, begun by his
father. That library contained 700,000 vol-
umes, amongst which he placed an authentic
translation of the book of law and the pro
phets, which he procured from Eleazar the
high-priest, the successor of Simon Onias.
This translation was made by seventy per-
sons, in seventy days, on the island of Pha-
ros.* This king acquired a greater fame
than' king Pyrrhus in his Italian wars.
* This translation is called the Septuagint, on account of LXXII.
translators employed (not LXX.)
—
Trans.
248 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. How cheering it is to hear suc'.i
good news of those noble men, who had an
eye single to virtue. A great degree of
praise is due them for their labours of huma-
nity.
S. C. You are certainly right in this. 1
do consider that neither Seleucus, who con-
quered Asia, nor Antioch Magnus, his suc-
cessor, nor Arsaces, the Parthian king, nor
Antigonus of Macedon, nor Catulus, who
conquered the Carthaginians, all of whom
gained much applause in their day, were as
happy, or deserving of applause as those wise
men who improved the moral condition of
their fellow men, among whom there was
none more conspicuous than Jesus, the Son
of Sirach, who was a luminous star in the
days of Ptolemy Evergetus, the successor of
Ptolemy Pbiladelphus, of Alexandria, in
whose aphorisms more wisdom is to be found
than among all the Stoics, Epicureans, Pla-
tonists, besides the Pythagorean and Peripa-
tetic philosophers, of all Greece. And, alas
!
had Israel always enjoyed peace, what flou-
rishing people would they have been ! But,
alas ! they were continually harassed and
plundered by their powerful rival kings of
Egypt and Syria. The calamities which
befell Jerusalem about this time are not easily
described; for when Ptolemy Philopater de-
feated Antiochus Magnus in a sore battle, in
*vhich no less than 600,000 Jews were slain,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 249
to the great sorrow of all the people, who
lived quietly under their governor, Joseph
Arses, and their high-priest, Simon Justus, he
went up to Jerusalem, and dissemblingly, to
offer sacrifice, attempted, contrary to the law*
to enter into the Sanctuim Sanctorum, the
holy of holies, he was seized with a sudden
terror and consternation, and was obliged to
be carried back in a manner half dead ; but
after he recovered he determined to avenge
himself; he took many of the Jews, without
respect of person, bound them and carried
them down to Alexandria, and was deter-
mined to have them destro3^ed of elephants. f
The weeping and lamentation then, are not
easily described. But God turned the wild
beasts upon those that came to be the spec-
tators of this dreadful carnage, so that num-
bers of them became victims to their cruel
curiosity, and were slain. This judgment
so terrified the king and his subjects, that
Philopater released the Jews, restored the
whole nation to their former privileges, re-
voked the laws against them, and gave them
leave to put those to death who, for fear of
• The holy of holies, where none were allowed to enter but the
high-priest, on the great day of expiation.
—
Trans.
j- Philopater, this cruel tyrant, deprived the Jews of all their civil
rights and privileges, obliged them under pain of death to be stigma-
tized with a bui-n, representing an ivr leaf, in honour of Bacchus;
and excluded all from his presence that would not sacrifice to this
god. He also commanded as many Jews as could be found to be
enclosed in the Hippodrome (a place for horse races) at Alexandria,
to be devoured of elephants made drunk -with -wine.—Trans,
^50 THE WANDERING SOUL
persecution, had basely apostatized from their
religion. And when they returned home,
they erected a monument commemorative of
their deliverance ; the remains of wiiich are
yet to be seen among the ruins of the city.
W, S. What strange vicissitudes befell this
people. It is no wonder that you are oft
constrained to weep to think upon them.
S. C. Alas, my son, still a more sad histo-
ry follows
!
W. S. I am anxious to hear it.
S. C. It is not a little painful for me to re-
late ; but for your sake I will. Antiochus
Epiphanes was made king in his father's
stead, in the 161st year of the Grecian
kinofdom. At that time Onias was hi^h-
priest, and Janna Hircanus chief governor
of Judea, He was determined to subdue
Egypt, but being obliged to retreat by order
of the Romans, he was infuriated, and went
up to Jerusalem, which occasioned great
weeping and lamentation among women and
children, for he did not only plunder the
temple of all its costly and splendid orna-
ments, but he also shed much blood ; his
soldiers acted worse than wild beasts,- slaugh-
tered the innocent citizens by piercing them
through with missile weapons, and cutting
their heads off. After having returned to
Antioch with his plunder, he regretted it,
that he did not wholly raze the city and ex-
tirpate the Jews. In two years afterwards,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 251
he sent an army of 22,000 men under Apol-
lonius, his general, with a commission to put
all the men of Jerusalem to the sword, and
to make" slaves of the women and children.
As the citizens heard the sound of the drums,
and saw the extended banners, they began
to fear and tremble ; they would have at-
tempted to resist them and prevented the
enemy entering the city, but they entered
the city by stratagem on the Sabbath day ;
thus none escaped but such as hid in caves,
or fled to the mountains. The blood flowed
as streams of water. The number slain was
about 80,000, besides 40,000 that were bound
ill chains to be sold as slaves. Houses w^ere
set on fire, walls were throw^n down, and
their magnificent towers razed to the ground ;
and upon Mount Acre, there was a castle
erected, and a garrison placed therein to
annoy the citizens. These were the tribu-
lations which befell this city at this time.
But, alas ! this people was still more sorely
afflicted.
W. S. Did other calamities befall them ?
S. C. Alas, indeed ! the worshipping of Al-
mighty God was destroyed—the glory of
Israel, which exalted them over every other
nation. The tw^o sons of Onias, Jason and
Menelaus, who were killed, w^ere contend-
ing about the priesthood; they went to An-
tiochus, promised him money (also to pa-
tronize idolatry); he was ready to do this, bo-
252 THE WANDERING SOUL
ing a wicked man—^he issued out an order
that all his dominions should conform to the
religion of the king. Athenseus, a Grecian
idolater, was selected to instruct all the Jews
that would turn idolaters, and punish those
who would not. Forbidding their children
to be circumcised; forbidding all burnt-
offerings and sacrifices in the temple of the
God of Israel, and called it the temple of
Jupiter Olympus. The books of the law
were burned, and women accused of having
their children circumcised were dragged
about the streets with these children tied
about their necks, and both thrown together,
headlong, from the highest parts of the walls.
A mother and her seven sons were most
cruelly tortured. Their instruments of death
and modes of torture were of the most cruel
kind that the malice of wicked men could
invent or inflict. 2 Mace. vii.
W. S. O the calamities that befell this
people ! Did they not suffer exceedingly ?
S. C. This you may readily imagine.- The
pious did not know whither to f].ee. As al-
ready said, many fled to the desert; some
hid in caves, and died of hunger.
W. S. Was there none to redeem them
from their sore distress?
S. C. Where should he be ? The govern-
or. Janna Hircanus, of the tribe of Judah,
was killed, and the nobles slain. The pro-
phets had fled and were murdered, so that
i
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 253
these innocent ones liad none to whom they
could look for relief.
W. S. Did the governors of Judah y et rule ?
S. C. Yes, they did. Rosa Messiilam, of
royal descent, who had ruled sixty-six years,
was succeeded by John, who ruled fifty-three
years ; after him ruled Judas Hircanus four-
teen years, Joseph seven years, Abner Simei
eleven years, Mattathias Eli twelve years,
Assar Mahat nine years, Arphaxad ten years,
Agar Eli eight years, Maslot Nahum seven
years, Amos Syrach fourteen years, Matta-
thias Silo ten years, Joseph Arses sixty-six
years, and after him, Janna Hircanus sixteen
years, which amount to (including the fifty-
eight years while Zorobabel ruled) three
hundred and sixty-one years since the Babylo-
nian captivity till the present distressing time.
W. S. It certainly appears that the whole
nation of Jews was to be extirpated, and the
law of God to be wholly destroyed.
S. C. This would have been the case if
God had not miraculously interposed.
W. S. How did he interpose?
S. C. Do you see the ruins of several
buildings on that mountain south of us ?
W. S. I see them.
S. C. Formerly there was a small village
there, called Modin, where resided a respect-
able priest called Mattathias; his father's*
* Mattathias was a great grandson of Asraonoeus, and a priest of
flie first course.
—
Trans.
Y
254 THE WANDERING SOITL
name was Asmonseus. It grieved Mattathias
to see Jerusalem laid waste, and the law
trampled under foot, and his people most un-
mercifully murdered ; seeing a Jew that
dared approach the idolatrous altar, he de-
spatched him and the king's commissioner,
who looked upon it w^ith impunity ; he then
fled, with his five sons and others that were
oppressed, into the desert, and remained for
a time in caves. But as soon as the garrison
was apprized of this, they went out to fight
against him ; and because the Jews were not
allowed to defend themselves on the Sabbath,
more than one thousand were killed in the
caves : but when Mattathias encouragfed
them to fight and defend themselves on the
Sabbath day (for on account of this super-
stitious notion, not to defend themselves on
this day, many were destroyed by their
enemies), he, at the head of them, quitted
the mountains, marched boldly towards Jeru-
salem, for the Assideans, a valiant, pious peo-
ple, united with him, pulled down the hea-
then altars he met with, restored the true
worship of God and the rite of circumcision
among the Jews. He died in the 146th year
of the Seleucides, leaving five sons, one of
whom, Judas Maccabeus, was appointed
captain general of the people.
W. S. Thus there v/as a great consterna-
tion in the land.
S. C. The commotions were great; drums
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 255
were heard daily. Those rebels who rose up
against the king were slain ; but Judas,*
although he had but few people, valiantly
resisted, conquered, and slew Apollonius, An-
tiochus's general. Mace. iii. 11. After that
he defeated Seron, deputy-governor of Coc-
losyria, slew eight hundred of his m.ei\, and
put the rest to flight, gained also a victory
over Gorgias, one of Antiochus's com-
manders, and killed 6000 of his men ; and
after that he defeated Lysias, the governor
of all the country between Euphrates and
Egypt, who had penetrated as far as Beth-
sura, a strong fortress about twenty miles
from Jerusalem. All these had great armies;
but Judas, in reliance upon God, with a few
men, defeated them completely. This sig-
nal success inspired the Jews with new
courage. Judas, having now respite, puri-
fied the temple, restored the true worship of
God, removed all the profanations, built au
altar of hewn stones and replaced therein the
golden furniture that Antiochus had carried
away, and dedicated the temple again, and
ordered that a feast of dedication should be
* Judas signalized himself on former occasions, hence he was dis-
tinguished by the title JMaccaheits, which is interpreted by some,
Conqueror in the Lord. Others are of the opinion, because the
motto of his standard was the initial letter of that Hebrew sentence,
Exod. xxiv. 11, MI CAM0K.\ BAELIM JEHOVAH, that is,
Who is like thke amosb the Gods, O Lorb ! which letters
were formed into the artificial work Maccabi, and all that fought
under his standard were called Maccabef.s. To frame words in tliis
way was a common practice among the Jews.
—
Tram.
256 THE WANDERING SOUL
kept animally on the 25th December. His
next care was to snbdue the castle on Mount
Acre, which AppoUonius had erected to com-
mand the temple^ for the heathens were
"under the command of Timotheus, the Am-
monitish commander, and annoyed the Jews
;
but Judas soon put an end to them, and took
the cities Maspa, Caspis, Mageth, Bosor,
Carnaim, Ephron, Asdod, Hebron, and others.
W. S. How did Antiochus seem to Hke this ?
S. C. He was gone to Persia not only to
receive his tribute, but to plunder the tem-
ple of Diana, called Zoretes by the Persians
;
but not succeeding, and hearing of the news
of the defeat of his generals and armies in
Judea, he w^as grieved, and with the utmost
rage resolved to hasten to Jerusalem in his
chariot. Driving furiously, his chariot was
overthrown, and he fell out of it, and was
smitten with an incurable disease, besides
being sorely bruised. He was forced to be
confined to his bed—worms crept from Ms
foul ulcers. He at last confessed his error,
and died, and left behind him a son called
Antiochus Eupator.
W. S Did he not carry on the war ?
S. C. Yes ; he brought a vast army against
Judas, consisting of 100,000 foot, 20,000
horse, 32 elephants, 300 armed chariots of
war, with his chief commander, besieged the
fortification of Bethsura; but they could not
subdue Judas; still they entered the city, and
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 257
besieged the sanctuary. Shortly afterwards
he went to Antioch, there he and Lyrias the
commander were slain by order of Deme-
trius. Afterwards Demetrius ordered Ba-
chides to march an army into Judea, to con-,
firm Alcimus in the pontificate. 1 Mace. vii.
7-9. And w^hen Nicanor had collected large
forces, and threatened to demolish the tem-
ple, he and his wdiole army w^ere routed by
Judas, who cut off Nicanor's head and his
right hand, w^hichhehad stretched out against
the temple, and hanged them upon one of the
towers of Jerusalem, and appointed an anni-
versary of thanksgiving in memory of this vic-
tory, which is called Nicanor's day. And thus
were these tyrants taken by their own crafti-
ness. Israel had now respite for a short time.
W. S. What did the successful conqueror
do in the mean time ?
S. C. The Romans being a renowned peo-
ple, and he considerably oppressed by the
kings of Syria, he entered into covenant
with the Romans, in order to be under their
protection ; for he thought they were power-
ful enough to conquer any nation; for 46
years before this time, they defeated the
Gauls in three successive battles, and sub-
dued them ; and 50 years before Scipio took
possession of nearly all Spain ; and 40 years
afterwards he deterred the Carthacrenians so
much that Hannibal fled, and was glad to
make peace ; and 30 years after that, Atte
Y 2
258 THE WANDERING SOUL
lius Giabruis conquered Antiochus the Great,
so that he was compelled to send hostages to
Rome ; besides that, Pompilius expelled Epi-
phanes from Egypt. He reflected much
upon the great victories which Paulus Emi-
lius had in Macedonia when he took Perseus
tlie king captive, and led him about trium-
phantly in Rome. And the whole Grecian
armies were subdued unto the Romans.
Therefore did Judas make a mutual agree-
ment with the Romans. But it appears this
taking refuge unto man did not meet with
the approbation of God; and shortly after-
wards he was slain in a battle against Ba-
chides. 1 Mace. ix. 17.
W. S. This must have caused great lame-n
tation among the Jew^s ?
S. C. Their weeping and wailing are not
to be described ; the Gentiles became power
ful ; the apostates became haughty, and the
impious Alcimus attended to the priest's
office in an ungodly manner. When young
Onias saw this, he retired into Egypt, and
by the permission of the king, built a temple,
like the one at Jerusalem at Heliopolis;
although this was contrary to the will of God,
yet Onias meant it well, in regard to time
and circumstances. Thus was the service of
the Jews much neglected. But this state of
affairs did not continue long; for Alcimus
was taken away by a sore disease ; and Jona-
than, who succeeded his brother as governor,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS 259
compelled Bachides to make peace ; and
afterwards Alexander was made king of Sy-
ria, and vanquished Demetrius, and declared
Jonathan high-priest, and appointed him
governor of the kingdom of Judea ; and from
that time, Jerusalem and the whole nation
began to flourish again, for the kings of Sy-
ria opposed one another, each respecting Jo-
nathan and courting his favours. He rebuilt
the walls of Jerusalem, and adorned them
with magnificent towers. At last he was slain
of Triphon, after having reigned success-
full}'" for the space of seventeen years. Mace.
xii.'l3.
W. S. I am nearly tired listening to all
these tribulations.
S. C. This is not all what befell our nation.
But were I to tell you how Lucius Mumius
burnt the city of Corinth ; and how^ Carthage,
which subsisted 700 years, was burnt by
Scipio Africanus, the conflagration of which
lasted for seventeen days, and 50,000 citizens
leaving it weeping ; also how the city Numa-
tium, in Spain, was destroyed ; , and how the
inhabitants slew one another; all this would
consume much time. What a cruel carnage
this was, besides thousands of others who were
slain in seven pitched battles fought against
Viritus. O, my son, were I to give you a
minute detail of all this, there would be much
reason to be sorrowing.
260 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. I have no desire to hear these thing«.
Only tell me concerning Israel.
S. C. After the death of Jonathan, Simon,
his brother, was high-priest and governor of
the people. He erected a splendid marble
monument to the memory of his father, mo-
ther, and brothers, at Modin, the remains of
which are yet to be seen. After reigning seven
years he was slain of Ptolemy, his son-in-law,
while at a feast. 1 Mace, xvi., 16. He left a
son, called John Hircanus, who succeeded
him in the priesthood.
W. S. How did he behave?
S. C. Even while his father was yet living,
he signalized himself by vanquishing Cende-
beus, who was sent out by the daughter of
Antiochus ; and afterwards saved Jerusalem
from being besieged, and purchased from An-
tiochus the privilege of living in peace. Then
the Jews were not molested in their religious
exercises. And when there was wanting a
large sum of money, he opened the tomb of
David and took 3000 talents therefrom ; and
after Antiochus's daughter was slam in bat-
tle against Demetrius, Hircanus took pos-
session of many cities, raised the temple on
Mount Griezim, which was built more than
^00 years before ; conquered the Idumeans,
and renewed the covenant with the Romans;
and there being at that time two Antiochuses,
one surnamed Griphus, the other Cicizenus,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 261
who contended a long time for the crown of
Syria. John had a little respite during this
time, and could do whatever he pleased; he
besieged Samaria, entered the city and de-
stroyed it.
W. S. It appears that the Jews were pros-
pering under the reign of their governor,
Hircanus.
S. C. Every thing w^as involved in misery
;
for during the time of besieging Samaria,
Antiochus Cicizenus plundered the country,
set fire to their houses, and slew thousands
of the Jews in the most cruel and shameful
manner. Weeping and wailing were heard
in all the land ; besides this, the common
people were so enraged at him, that they re-
proached him all his lifetime afterwards.
W. S. I am astonished at that, and I would
Uke to know the cause of it.
S. C. At that time there were the sects
among the Jews—the Pharisees, the Essenes,
and Sadducees. The Pharisees had the
greatest influence among the people, for they
w^ere shrew^d and designing, and thus they
controlled them at pleasure. At first, Hir-
canus adhered to the Pharisees, afterwards
he turned to the Sadducees, and forbade the
observance of the traditions of the Pharisees;
and thus the enmity arose against him. After
all, he died in peace, having reigned thirty-
one years.
W. S. Did the Jews prosper again ?
262 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. Their principality was changed to
a regal government, for the oldest son of
Hircanus, called Aristobukis, assumed the
royal honour by taking the sceptre and the
crown ; but having polluted his hands in his
own brother's, Antigonus's blood, whom he
had killed, he only reigned one year, and ex-
pired upon a death-bed of repentance, leaving
his queen Alexandra, who had a worthy
brother called Alexander Jamne, who was
made king, and reigned twenty-seven years.
But his was an unhappy reign, for the coun-
try was continaily robbed and plundered by
the contending Assyrian kings; and espe-
cially Mdien Ptolemy Lathyrus, king of
Cyprus, came into Judea, and waged a
bloody war against Alexander, and vanquish-
ed him and slew 30,000 Jews, and filled the
town of Galilee with blood and carnage.
W. S. O, the barbarous cruelty!
S. C. I do not know v/ho was the greater
tyrant of the two, Alexander Jamne or Ptole-
my, for after he had besieged several cities,
and taken possession of Gaza, he destroyed
it most shamefully, burnt it down, killed the
citizens, and slew 500 of their counsellors in
the temple of Apollo. On account of this
cruel carnage, he was esteemed among the
Jews as unworthy the priesthood ; therefore
did they, at one of their feasts, throw at him
with citrons, which grieved him, and in a
rage he slew 6000 of them, and thus their
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 263
feast-day was stained with blood. But he was
still more cruel, he crucified 800 of the sedi-
tious Jews, and while under excruciating
pains, he slew their wives and children be-
fore their eyes. I believe, therefore, that
Alexander was as cruel as Ptolemy. It is a
question with me, w^hether he was not even
more cruel than Sylla, who, about this time,
got the advantage of his rival, Marius, and
entered Rome like a tyrant and a conqueror,
filling the streets daily with dead bodies
:
he massacred 700,000 citizens to w^hom he
had promised pardon. The number of slain
is greater than that slain by Alexander, but
in cruelty he exceeded Sylla, and simply be-
cause one was a Jew, and the other an igno-
rant heathen.
W. S. O the bloody times and miseries
of the Jewish kingdom
!
S. C. Is it then strange that God should
begin another kingdom, and that among the
tribe of Judah,—a kingdom of grace, love,
and mercy, and of heavenly joy, in order to
redeem every troubled soul, as it was foretold
of the prophets.
W. S. No, I am not astonished that he
should ; but where is there such a kingdom ?
S. C. We will speak of that whenever we
have closed the history of this.
W. S. Although it is disagreeable for me
to hear so much of human misery related,
264 THE WANDERING SOUL
yet to follow the chronological order of his-
tory, I will listen attentively.
S. C. This Alexander left two sons, one
was called Hircanns, the other Aristobulus.
Hircanns was made high-priest by the queen,
and he favoured the Pharisees. After reign-
ing nine years she died, and then there was
a great division between the two sons; Aris-
tobulus waged war against his brother Hir-
canus, on account of the kingdom, which
was the cause (not without the Divine
decree) why the sceptre of Judah was given
unto the Gentiles, and the final destruction
soon followed.
W. S. I would desire to hear some account
of that.
S. C. There Avas a shrewd and designing
individual called Antipater, of the Idumeans.
When he saw that Aristobulus, contrary to
law, was made king, he was not satisfied
;
he encouraged Hircanus to revolt, and he
made a league with Aretas, king of Arabia,
who came with a mighty army to Jerusalem,
to expel Aristobulus, and besieged him and
all his priests in the temple, that it was
lamentable to see one brother enraged at
another, shooting darts at him and harass-
mg him, and it was still more sorrowful to
see them stone Onias to death, and for no
other reason than that this man of God
would not encourage either faction, but
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 265
would rather see them love one another as
brothers ought. But God soon showed them
by a tremendous hurricane, hail and storm,
which destroyed their grain, that he was not
pleased with them. And in the mean time,
Scarus, a Roman commander in Syria, en-
couraged the Arabians to withdraw, and
thus was Aristobulus set free. As Pompey
went down towards Damascus, legates from
both parties met him, each desiring him to
acknowledge their king ; but because Aristo-
bulus withstood Pompey's army, therefore did
he go up against Jerusalem and took posses-
sion of the temple, and slew many of the Jews.
Some killed each other, others cast them-
selves down precipices, others were murder-
ed of the Romans, so that about 12,000 were
slain; and Pompey entered the Sanctum
Sanctorum., which never was done by a
strange king. However, he did not destroy-
any thing in it. And after making Jerusa-
lem and other cities tributary, he led Aris-
tobulus away captive, and Hircanus remain-
ed in the office of priest. These were the
beginnings of the entire subjugation of the
Jews.
W. S. Father, be pleased to tell me how
the Romans became to be such a powerful
people as to be able to subjugate the Jews ?
S. C. Alas ! they pushed on and devas-
tated all before them as a flood ; for after they
had conquered Macedonia and Carthage, as 1
Z
266 THE WANDERING iSOUL
told you before, they extended the borders of
their kingdom east and west. First they van-
quished and slew Jugurtha, the king of Nu-
midia, afterwards Marius conquered the Cim-
bri. Sertorius invaded Spain, and thus they
conquered nation after nation ; so that there
w^as none to be found of the posterity of An-
tiochus, or of Alexander the Great. Julius
Csesar was successful in the east, and made
France, Germany, Belgium, and England
tributary to Rome ; and thus was the fourth
great monarchy commenced, after the third
was destroyed, according to the prophecy of
Daniel.
W. S. You have told me enough of the
Romans ; be kind enough to tell me more con-
cerning your own nation.
S. C. Be it known to you, my son, that the
city of Jerusalem met with some other cala-
mities. As Crassus, a Roman general, went
to war with the Parthians (remaining ene-
mies), he pillaged the temple of all the gold
which Pompey had left. He took a beam of
gold of 300 pounds weight. After Pompey
was slain of Julius Ctesar, Antipater, whom
we mentioned before, prevailed upon the em-
peror to confirm Hircanus in the office of
high-priest, and to appoint him prefect or
governor of the Jews. And he made his
children, Phaselis, Herod, and others to be
prefects, and purchased himself friends with
the Jews' money. On his death, his son Herod
WITH SIMON CLEOPnAS. 267
and his brother were declared tetrarchs by
Mark Antony. At this time the above mention-
ed Aristobulns was dead, leaving a son called
Antigonus, who obtained an army from the
king of Parthia, by promising him 1000
talents and 500 women. With these foreign
troops he attacked his country, and cut the
ears of Hircanus, to make him unfit for the
priesthood.* My son, if you had seen the
misery that was in Jerusalem at this time, it
was enough to have moved the liardest heart
;
some adliered to Antiochus, others to Hirca-
nus and Herod. Banners were extended,
and drums beating ; all the citizens were
dreadfully alarmed, not knowing who was
first to be slain. The royal palace, of which
the remains are yet to be seen, was stormed ;
arrows were flying as thick as hail. The
sorest battle was fought on a market day.
Antigonus was driven into the temple ; and
several houses, Avhich were garrisoned by
Herod, were set on fire; and it being on the
day of Pentecost, several thousand people
from the country made Herod retire into the
royal palace ; who, however, sallied forth and
slew many of the enemies. In the mean time
came the Parthian general with his horse-
men, and pretending friendship, he proposed
to be mediator, and thereby took Hircanus
and Phaselis by surprise ; but Herod eff'ected
• See Josephus 14. Dion and Plutarch in Anton.—Trans,
268 THE WANDERING SOUL
his retreat, and went into Arabia, from thence
he went through Egypt to Rome, and left
Antigonus the kingdom. Thus was fulfilled
the prediction of the patriarch, Jacob, who
prophesied, 1700 years before, that the sceptre
should depart from Judah. Gen.xlix. 10. For
when Herod came to Rome for assistance, he
was made king over Judea, which happened
500 years after the Babylonian captivity,
after the tribe of Asmonen (of whom Mat-
tathias was the first) had reigned 130 years.
W. S. Then it was time that the promised
hero should make his appearance.
S. C. O, yes ; the Hero, who conquered
ALL, yet not with missile weapons, but by
truth, which is all prevailing.
W. S. But how did Herod become king
of the Jews ?
S. C. Not without shedding much blood,
so my parents told me, who saw the whole of
it. The country was filled with misery and
wretchedness ; the Parthians and Antigonus
had laid w^aste all around Jerusalem ; Galilee
was plundered and ransacked of murderers,
who laid in caves ; the borders thereof were
lined with soldiers. In the mean time came
Herod with a host from Rome, prowling the
whole country, and took cities at his will.
However, he was successfully repulsed from
Jerusalem, until Sosius, a Roman command-
er, aided him ; then he besieged Jerusalem
again, and stormed it by force. The Jews
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 269
who fought under Antigoniis's banner, re-
sisted Herod manfully ; but Herod succeeded
in storming the city, and took possession of
it. The Roman soldiers ran through the city
like infuriated lions, slaying all before them,
.saving neither man, woman, nor child. The
drums and the groans of the dying made a
doleful noise ; even Herod, w^ho was as cruel
as death, was so affected by the scene of car-
nage, that he immediately put an end to the
shedding of blood. But poor Antigonus,
although he ft -11 down upon his knees suppli-
catii;g for mercy, was bound and led down
and brought before Antony, who beheaded
him, at the request of Herod. Thus you see
that Herod purchased the crown by shedding
much blood.
W. S. To rule but a short time in this life
is paid too dear at the price of blood.
S. C. He had no peace during his whole
reign, besides being in jeopardy of life him-
self, on account of Caesar Augustus (his
friend Antony being conquered), and on
account of his own subjects. Besides all this,
he was in continual dread and fear ; for he
knew^ that the Jews despised him, because he
w^as not their legitimate king according to
the flesh ; and therefore did he make the
attempt to extirpate the descendants of As-
monen. He did not even save his own wife,
Mariamne, neither her mother, Alexandra,
fxox her brother Aristobulus, nor the aged
270 THE WANDERING SOUL
Hircaiius, who used his influence in his be-
half; neither did he suffer the children of
Alexandra and Aristobulus to live ;
yea, while
he was dying, he ordered Antipater to be ex-
ecuted. It appears that every thing was
ominous of the shortness of his reign, and
that there w^as another king to rise ; so that
he did not prevent any kind of cruelty.
Whenever he heard the least rumour of a
king, he quaked and feared greatly ; he had
his spies throughout all the land, inquiring
whether there was not a snare laid for him
;
and that there might be a king of the Jews
born, as he apprehended there would be.
With all his precaution and cunning, he was
deceived at last ; for the wisdom of God took
him in his own craftiness. He expected this
king would be born of the Asmoneans ; but
he was of the tribe of Judah : he looked for
him to be of the noble, but he was of the ig-
noble. He was of the poor. It is presump-
tion to fight against God.
W. S. You have told me more of a tyrant
than of a king; and 1 clearly learn from your
discourse that it is now the time when, ac-
according to God's appointment, such a king
should be born as He had promised long be-
forehand ; and I have a great desire to hear
the history thereof; but I will not weary you
any longer at the present. It is true the day
is not near closed; but I will rather go a
little sooner, in order that you may refresh
WLTll SIMON CLEOPHAS. 271
yourself, and be the better prepared in the
morning to relate to me that very important
history.
S. C. Your observations are correct, my
son, go in peace, and reflect upon what you
have heard.
W. S. I hope to do so.
DIALOGUE V.
£the third part of this dialogue comprises a period op
SEVENTY years, IN WHICH THE LIFE OF CHRIST AND THE
ACTS OF THE APOSTLES ARE RELATED, UNTIL THE DESTRUC-
TION OF JERUSALEM.]
Simon Cleoplias. I would have invited
you to another place ; but as this is the most
elevated, and may be to our advantage to
view the city and the surrounding country,
therefore did I select this ; otherwise my house
would have been at your service.
W. S. I certainly would not wdsh a better
place than this; what is there to interrupt us?
We have a fine shade here, a pleasant place
to sit, and can see all around us; besides, we
have many things in our view serving as
mementos. I can tell you of a truth, that I
have been much edified by what I heard yes-
terday. It appears to me what I heard is
272 THE -WANDERING SOUL
constantly revolving in my mind ; and I am
exceedingly anxious to hear what you have
yet to relate ; because one without the other
is not perfect.
S. C. You have said the truth. But on
what part have you been reflecting last ; so
that I may know where to begin ?
W. S. Besides many other things, I am
astonished to hear you say that Herod was
deceived in his own wisdom : that this prince
was born without him knowing it ! Did this
take place so secretly, wholly unknown to the
people ?
S. C. As unknown as the manna in the
desert; for when it was fallen, none knew
what it was. So it was with this birth. It
was for a considerable time secretly reported
that there was a remarkable child born of a
priest, of wdiom they entertained the highest
opinion. This report was circulated through
all the land ; but his parents being of no note,
the report was but little regarded.
W. S. Wasthis the child that was expected ?
S. C. By no means. However, his birth
is something remarkable and more than ordi-
nary ; for every one knew how the father had
been dumb for nine months, and could not
speak till this child was born; and when the
child was eight days old, his mouth was
opened, his tongue loosened, and he spake
and praised God. Luke i. 20-64. This child
was also the more glorious because his advent
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 273
was foretold nearly 400 years before. The
hearts of many that were touched by the
finger of God, rejoiced in the glorious hope
that this luminous morning star should rise
before the glorious rays of the bright sun.
This was known only to those who feared
God, who mourned and sighed under the
reproachful cross of persecution ; for the court
of Herod and the mighty of the land were
engaged with secular matters, rejoicing in the
vanities of the world, drinking each others'
health. Their minds were filled with vain
imaginations concerning their prosperity and
power ; boasting of their good standing with
the Romans, mocking and .laughing at the
conversation of the common people, who
would often speak of a coming Saviour,
whom they expected with much anxiety.
Some looked for him to come from the tribe
of David, because the prophets had said
much concerning him ; others thought it pre-
sumptuous to look for a Saviour to come
from a tribe that was nearly extirpated. The
scribes themselves saw that the prophecies
were accomplishing ; but they were blinded
through jealousy with a desire to govern, so
that it appears their discernment in these
matters was blunted; and the divisions oi
them into sects, such as Pharisees, Saddu-
cees, and Essenes, contributed much to the
neglect of observing the times ; each sect
courting the king's favour, who artfully
•274 THE WANDETIING SOUL
availed himself of their dissensions, and took
the advantage of them, and oppressed them
severely : he made them pay dear for their
anticipated favours by depriving them of all
liberty. Thus had the clouds of ignorance
darkened their minds so much, that they
could not discern the truth, so as to have a
well-grounded hope of those things that were
reported. There were two very pious and
godfearing persons of the tribe of David, who
were in low circumstances ; one was called
Joseph, of a noble family, though a carpen-
ter by occupation; he was betrothed to a
pious young worn, an called Mary ; she was
related to the mother of the aforementioned
child : both were very pious, and lived in the
fear of God. It is not to be fully related how
much time they spent in spiritual conversa-
tions, examining the prophecies, which caused
them often to sigh to see the divine promises
so little regarded, and much neglected; ap^
pearing as though all the hopes and expecta-
tions of the secluded and pious were frusr
trated ; of those who convened secretly by
night for fear of being apprehended by the
spies of this tyrant. In the mean time, God,
regardless of the opposition of man, sent His
holy angel to make known the birth of Jesus,
to the aforementioned Mary ; but she did not
make it public; although she was much
troubled in mind, she only revealed it secretly
to her friend, her whom I mentioned before.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 275
Their joys are not to be expressed ; whole
nights did they spend in meditating on the
wondrous ways of God.
W. S. I am astonished to hear that all
were so benighted by the thick clouds of
ignorance, and that there was nothing to
dispel this gloom ! Did it continue long thus?
S. C. The mighty of the land were still in
darkness, every one regarding his own in-
terest ; one to promote his honour ; another
to have his children provided with offices
;
a third was engaged in mercantile business;
some attending to agriculture. All were
rejoicing on account of the universal peace
then prevailing. It was reported from Italy,
that the doors of the temple of Janus were
closed, that there was nothing to molest, and
none thought of a change. About six months
afterwards it was reported by some shep-
herds, that some angels appeared to them b}^
night, while they were watching their flocks,
commanding them to go to Bethlehem.
Luke ii. 8-17. You can see the villajxe
from this ; it is south of us, about six miles
from here, near the tower called Eder. These
shepherds could scarce relate all concerning
the melody, the joy, they heard from the
angels. It appeared to them as if heaven
itself was open to them : not all the music ef
the world was to be compared with that
heavenly music. And as they had come to
Bethlehem, thev found an amiable and an
276 THE WANDERING SOUL
exceedingly fair woman with a child in a
manger, and with her was also an agreeable,
well-deported man, but apparently of ordi-
nary circumstances. He was of the tribe of
'
David ; and this, my son, was the long-pro-
mised child. * This report was made general-
ly known by the shepherds. Some believed
it, and others not. I well recollect when my
father, Cleophas, came home with this report
from the dedication of the temple at Jerusa-
lem, for I was about eleven years old at that
time, and I do recollect it well, although
more than one hundred years have elapsed
since.
W. S. You excite my curiosity more and
more. How did it happen that they came to
Bethlehem ; were they on a visit to their
relations ?
S. C. By no means ; they were persons of
very little property. Joseph was a carpen-
* It appears about the time our Saviour was born, that not only
the Jews and Samaritans expected some distinguished personage,
but the heathens looked for such a person at the same time. Virgil,
one of the Roman poets, is supposed to describe some great person
who was to be born about this time ; and he does it in such lan-
guage that is near or very agreeable to the description given of
the Messiah's kingdom by the Jewish prophet.
Suetonius, a Roman writer, says that there was one Julius Mara-
thus declared, " That nature was about to bring forth a king for the
people." He says also, in the life of Vespasian, " That there had
prevailed over all the eastern part of the world a constant opinion,
that about that time there should come out of Judea, one who
should obtain the empire of the world." Tacitus, another Roman
historian, says the same thing, and " That it was contained in the
ancient books of the Jewish priests, so that both Jews and Gentiles
expected now some glorious person to arise in the world."
—
Trans
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 277
ter by trade, but they came hither in obedi-
ence to a mandate of Ceesar Augustus, who
had decreed to tax or register all the world
;
and Joseph being of the house of David,
went up with ]\Iary his espoused wife to be
registered, and at that time she brought forth
her son (through a remarkable providence
of God), so that the Scriptures might be ful-
filled. This happened in the thirty-fourth
year of the reign of Herod, and in the forty-
first of Augustus, and in the 607th year after
the Babylonian captivity. The seventy
weeks of Daniel had been accomplished ; and
thus the more informed could not but con-
clude that the deliverance of Israel was at
hand. Although the mighty of the land
were enshrouded in thick darkness, still
there were some rays of the great sun visible,
and the morning star was already to be seen
above the horizon. The report of the shep-
herds of Bethlehem was little regarded, and
in about six weeks a similar report was made
by one Simeon, who resided at Jerusalem,
and at the same time by a prophetess called
Hanna ; they said that they saw the child in
the temple, and, through the spirit of pro-
phecy, they believed him to be the Redeemer
of Israel, and their report was gladly re-
ceived by many ; and this old man then de-
parted this world in peace, telling many re-
markable things of the child.
W. S. Was this reported to king Herod
'
2A
278 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. Every one was afraid to say any
thing to him, dreading his wrath. However,
he soon heard something of it, and was con-
siderably troubled, but he did not know what
measures to adopt in relation thereto ; for on
account of the domestic feuds and commo-
tions in his own house, he could not so very
closely observe all things, for both at Rome
,and at his own house were persons enraged
at his two sons, Alexander and Aristobulus,
whom he brought before a court of two hun-
dred and fifty counsellors assembled for that
purpose at Beritha, a city about thirty miles
from Jerusalem ; and after a protracted meet-
ing, and having heard many heavy charges
preferred against them, sentence was pro-
nounced on them by two, namely, Saturnius -
and Valumnius, that they should be exe-
cuted ; and they were accordingly led into
Samaria, and executed. Thus you see that
this tyrant had enough at home to engage
his attention; therefore, he could pay but
little attention to the common reports of ple-
beians.
W. S. O, the wonderful and secret ways
of the Lord !
S. C. About one year afterwards there was
another report of the new-born king. Seve-
ral wise men came from Persia, who were
well versed in the books of the prophets,
especially in the prophecy of Daniel. These
being excellent astronomers, saw a new star
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 279
arise in the land of Judea, which they fol-
lowed with their men and maid-servants,
camels and asses, and came into Jerusalem,
inquired of king Herod where the new-born
king of the Jew^s was. Matt. ii. 2. When
the old man heard this,, he was sore afi-aid,
and appeared to be quite deranged, dreading
•disastrous consequences. Although some
would have rejoiced to see a revolution, espe-
cially they wdio were not pleased with
Herod's reig'u, he cong-reo^ated his council
immediately : all the high-priests and scribes
were assembled, and any one endowed with
the gift of interpreting was admitted in1o
the council, and after closely examining the
books, it was found that he was to be born at
Bethlehem. Matt. ii. 5, 6. Herod concealed
his inveterate anger, flattered the wise men,
and sent them into Bethlehem with a view
thus to gain some information of the child, and
feigned that he also w^as desirous of honour-
ing the child. Matt. i. 7, 8. But when the wise
men, being divinely inspired, had honoured
the child, and presented him gold and spices,
they left Herod ignorant of the infant, and
by Divine command returned home through
Arabia. They did not mind the parching
sandy road, but they entertained one another
by each one relating how^he w^as pleased
with the child, and how amiable his mother
was, and how great the special providence
of God was towards them. All these things
280 THE WANDERING SOUL
strengthened them in their faith, so that they
did not repent having made a jonrney, going
and coming, of at least 500 miles.
W. S O, what a remarkable wonder, that
God should make known the birth of this
child in such a distant country !
S. C. Signs were seen in the east and
west ; for in the Capitolium at Rome all the
images had fallen down : the image Apollo,
the oracle at Delphos, refused to answer Au-
gustus Csesar, saying that the Hebrew child
would soon make him hold his peace. As
soon as Augustus arrived at home, he had an
altar erected in the Capitolium, in honour of
of the first-born Son of God ; and he refused
after that to be called Dominus or Lord,
although his people knew not at that time
why it was thus : yet experience taught all
that the Lord of lords had been born.
W. S. You ascribe a very high title to this
child.
S. C. Yes, indeed, my son; he deserves none
less ; He it is who was provided, and promised
of God, from all eternity, of whom Adam and
Noah told you that he would come ; and he
was expected in every age since the days of
Adam ? He is the Preserver, the Redeemer,
the Mediator of the whole world ; of whom all
the prophets hav^ spoken, and in whom all
[srael confided.
W. S. I understand that He is the same
for the sake of whom you often wept.
»•
WiTH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 281
'S. C. Alas ! the cliosen lamb of God—the
innocent
W. S. Father, you have entered upon an
intricate history, for your sighing shows it
;
however, it is more edifying to preserve some
order. I have to put another question before
you proceed.
S. C. The innocent lamb that w^as slain in
this city, on account of which this judgment
•which you see w^as brought upon all the
Jews. You will understand the whole by
contemplating his origin ; He w^as not only
the Son of David, but he w^as the only-begot-
ten Son of God, who has no other father
than God, ])orn of a virgin, by the influence
of the Holy Ghost. O, son, his being is in-
comprehensible, and his birth not fully to be
related. How can the limited conception of
man comprehend him who had no beginning,
who is the eternal Word himself? But his
brightness and operations, which w^ere made
to testify of his divine image, appeared to us,
and of those Vv'e may speak.
W. S. You are telling me great wonders !
ßut I return to Herod. How did he behave
when the wise men did not return to him
again ?
S. C. His gray hairs stood mountain-ward
for anger, his eyes sparkled as a flame, his
countenance was distorted, and, like the infer-
nal fiend, he called his satellites, who were
;S00xi collected, with pikes, missile weapons^
2 a2
282 THE WANDERING SOUL
and shields : and because he did not know the
house in which Joseph and Mary, with the
child, were, he issued a decree, not only to
kill all the children in Bethlehem, but of all
the surrounding country, from two years old
and under, thinking by having this cruel de-
cree executed, that he would make sure of
killing the new-born king. But God ordered
it all wisely ; Joseph was warned by an angel
in a dream, to take the young child and his
mother and flee into Egypt; he obeyed,
passed on through the wilderness into Egypt,
till he arrived in Thermopolis.
W. S. O, how sorrowful must the mothers
in Bethlehem and the surrounding country
have been, when they saw these troops come.
S. C. Their sorrow cannot be described.
At first it was not known what Herod intend-
ed to do, whether he intended to wage war
against the Arabians, or whether he had
something else in view ; but it was soon dis-
closed when hi s satellites began to kill the in-
nocent children most barbarously. Then did
mothers weep and wail, falling down and im-
ploring mercy for their children ; some offered
to die in the stead of their children ; but all
this was of no avail ; for the king's decree
must be executed. Some were determined
upon fleeing, but this was also useless ; for
the roads and streets were all completely
guarded, so that none could escape. Even
some of the king's own children were slain
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 283
lest the new-born king should escape ; and
how could those of low degree escape ? The
mothers, thus seeing their innocents weltering
in gore, were not to be dissuaded from weep-
ing most bitterly, and lamenting the loss of
their children ; and hence was fulfilled what
Rachel, who is buried here, saw with prophetic
eye in her expiring moments, when she bore
Benjamin ; saying, " This is the son of my
sorrow."^
W. S. He must have been a cruel tyrant.
It is astonishing that the Jews could endure
such a king
!
S. C. What could they do ? they w^ere hard-
ened. Besides, he was very assiduous in im-
pro'V'ing the country, and routing and destroy-
ing the murderers in Galilee, who were se-
creted in the caves and clefts of rocks. He.
provided the people with corn in times of
dearth; he even pledged his own jewels, and
rebuilt some of the cities ; for instance, the
city of Sebasta, formerly called Samaria,
which was in the centre of a fertile valley,
the lands of which he improved very highly.
He also built Cesarea on the seashore, which
was called the tow^er of Stratonis : this city
he adorned and improved much in honour of
Caesar. He also built Antipatris, in honour
of his father, and many other splendid build
ings and cities did he improve. Especially
• She called his name Ben-oni, which, being interpreted, is, " Son
ef my sorrow." See Gen. xxxv. 18,
—
Trans.
284 THE WANDERING SOUL
did he build the splendid and magnificent
temple, the ruins of which are yet to be seen.
He commenced building it in the 18th year
of his reign ; and the one which was built by
Zerobabel five hundred years ago, he tore
down. He built it of white marble stone, as
may be seen at the ruins thereof; 10,000
first-rate carpenters, and lOOO priests labour-
ed at it for eight years ; and finished all com-
pletely, except some of the wing-works, which
required many years' labour. He also built
a strong tower in honour of Antonius, the
remains of which are yet to be seen north of
us. By thus erecting many splendid edifices^
he made himself numerous friends and ad-
herents. The land which was waste he im-
proved; for, as you see, it is planted over
with vineyards, olive-trees, fig-trees, pome-
granates, oranges, lemons, citrons, and other
fruit trees. Every thing flourished in the
reign of Herod, and hence it was that his
reign was tolerable.
W. S. From your discourse, I perceive
that he was a good earthly king, but little en-
dowed with heavenly wisdom.
S. C. Alas, he was far from being endow-
ed with divine wisdom. He was like all
those who prefer earthly things to heavenly.
On the contrary, the heavenly king regarded
•not the things of this world : he was now in
JCgypt with his despised parents as a pil-
grim ;
jet he did not want for heavenly
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 285
music ; the angels who were around him,
their Lord, made him more happy than king
Herod was in the midst of all his musicians,
his wine, and his sycophants ; for he was
severely punished afterwards.
W. S. Father, you are telling me wonders.
I am anxious to hear more of Herod.
S. C. The divine vengeance followed him
immediately, for the heir of his kingdom.
Antipater, made one attempt to poison him.
The court trembled and quaked for fear and
despair, and Antipater was cast into prison,
A sore disease was inflicted upon Herod;
his bowels fell out, and he stank like a car-
rion ; at last he made an attempt upon his
own life. When Antipater was apprized of
this, he rejoiced, thinking that he would soon
be released, but he was executed ; and thus,
he that deprived so many mothers of their
children, had to see, in his expiring moments,
some of his own children die; and instead of
destroying, as he thought he would, the son
of God, his owm son fell a victim. Herod
suffered most excruciatingly, and died in the
37th year of his reign, v>^hen Jesus was three
years old.
W. S. Thus the country was delivered
from a great tyrant.
S. C. That is true ; but not altogether de
livered from tyranny.
W. S. Do you say so, father?
286 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. Yes, it is certainly so ; for when Ar-
chelans, Herod's son, was about succeeding
to the throne, he did not meet with little dif-
ficulties. There were some for usurping the
throne, because he was at Rome ; some were for
pilfering Herod's treasures ; others interfered
to prevent all this ; others again were for revo-
lutionizing the whole government ; in short,
there was a general alarm. On a certain
Easterday, when there was a great uproar
raised against Archelaus, and the stones were
'thrown as thick as hail upon his soldiers,
there were no less than 300 Jews killed; and
afterwards on the day of Pentecost (my son,
I recollect it well, for I was about fourteen
years old at the time), the temple and the
king's palace flowed with blood; for Sabinus
made an attempt to take the king's treasure
and the sacred money, but the common peo-
ple interfered to prevent him from it. The
tower of Phaselus (some of its ruins remain
to this day) was besieged, and after consider-
able bloodshed, set on fire, which caused a
general consternatiom Some thrust them-
selves into the fire; others put an end to
themselves ; others, again, made their escape,
so that the city was completely filled with
misery, till Varus, the Roman proconsul, put
an end to the uproar. In the mean time
Archelaus came from Rome ; however, he
had less dominion than his father, for he only
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 287
had Judea and Samaria under his jurisdic-
tion ; the other parts of the kingdom being
divided among his brothers.
W. S. But how did the child in Egypt fare ?
S. C. He was from his infancy an agree-
able child ; every one who saw him was as-
tonished at him. The citizens of Thermo-
polis would have been much pleased to have
always had such company as that of Joseph
and Mary; but as soon as Joseph was ap-
prized by an angel of the death of Herod,
he and his beloved, with their blessed son;
made ready to go up to Bethlehem, but having
understood that Archelaus was no less tyran-
nical than his father, he, therefore, went
into Galilee, where Antipas reigned, and
abode in Nazareth.
W. S. Thus they made a long and tedious
journey.
S. C. This you may readily imagine ; for
leaving Thermopolis, and travelling through
the warm country of Egypt, and passing
through Palusium, and onward till they ar-
rived in Galilee, at Nazareth, they had
travelled rising of one hundred miles.
W. S. The neighbours must have been
astonished to see Joseph and Mary return
after several years' absence.
S. C. Their neighbours did not know what
was the cause of their absence ; neither did
they know that they had fled into Egypt,
for Jesus was born among men, as a pearl
288 THE WANDERING SOUL
among a huge pile of stones. The murder-
ing of the children at Bethlehem and the
adjacent places was generally known, but
none knew the cause of it. Things divine are
not so closely examined as earthly things
;
therefore it was that Arclielaus did discharge
the high-priest, Joaza, and ordained that
Eliazar should take his place ; and he also
married Glaphira, his brother's widow, when
Herod Antipas was made deputy governor
of Galilee, and Lysias of Bilana. The like,
and many other charges of this kind, were
preferred against Archelaus at Rome, and all
were closely examined; but nothing was
said of Jesus and his parents. At that time
I was about fifteen years of age, and I well
recollect what transpired then, for my native
town, Emaus, was burnt at that time by the
soldiers of Varus; and many other things
could be related that happened then, which
are all recorded in the chronicles of that
day. I do not recollect that there was any
rumour made on account of Joseph, Mary,
or Jesus; thus little do people regard things
that are of more importance than all besides.
About trifles there is much ado.
W. S. Notwithstanding, those who lived
with and about them, observed more than
common things in them.
S. C. I acknowledge this, for Mary was in
her habits, manners, dress, conversation, and
in all other things, a pattern of virtue. She
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 289
being my mother's sister, I knew her very
well ; she had an honourable, decent deport-
ment, and as to person she was middling
tall, her countenance was fair, her hair was
yellowish, her eyes handsome, her lips ruby,
she spoke little, was humble in her dress,
mild, and without levity. In short, all that
is desirable in a well-behaved, holy, and de-
vout woman, was found in her. Her hus-
band, also, was a man of good manners,
honourable, and besides being a labourer he
was also very pious ; although he had to
maintain himself with his saw and hatchet,
he would not, like other carpenters, study
to enrich himself, but how to please God,
and to keep his commandments. As he
was of the same disposition of his consort,
they would never let one festival pass by,
without going to Jerusalem, regardless of
their temporal concerns or the expense they
had to incur, so that none of them would be
wanting before the Lord, but that every one,
like themselves, might do the will of God.
On account of these virtues, their neigh-
bours and acquaintances were fully con-
vinced of their piety, and were astonished at
them; yet they did not take it to heart as
they ought to have done.
W. S. I w\sh I had known so lovely a
company, and particularly the child Jesus,
for I desire to hear something concerning
him also.
2B
290 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. I assure you that should I even spend
much time, I would not be able "to tell you
enough of the virtues of that cliild. From
his very infancy he was so devout and zeal-
ous, that it was astonishing to see him ; his
whole mind seemed to be always engaged
in heavenly things; and after he could,
walk, he was obedient to his parents, and did
their will with such diligence, that even
they were astonished at him. Every one
who saw him exclaimed, " What a fine child
this is ! how obliging, mild, lovely, and pre-
possessing; he is not like other children, w^ho
p] ay in the streets, full of vanity.
'
' No jeering,
which youths are often prone to, was to be
observed in him, nor lying or deception, in
which other young children delight ; nothing
blameable was to be found in him ; but in
words and deeds, as well as in appear-
ance and deportment, he seemed to be with-
out an equal. O unequalled pearl of youth,
well worthy to be loved ! We read of
Moses, that he was a fair child, of Isaac, that
he was devout in prayer, of Joseph, that his
father loved him above every thing ; but I
do not believe that they surpassed this child,
for all the gifts of nature seemed to have cen
tred in him. Verily, he blossomed like a
rose in a field, among other children. O
how fortunate are the parents of such a child
!
But what signified all this ; being poor, they
were not noticed. What is a carpenter?
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. '291
Were he a priest or another rich citizen, the
wisdom of such a son might be of service
,
but it is to be feared that httle will result
therefrom. These and the like words were
uttered by some when they saw Jesus, yet
they knew little of the mysteries of God.
This, however, was not at all surprising, for
Mary and Joseph themselves, although in-
structed, did not fully comprehend the true
nature of the mysteries of God, which were
exhibited in a wonderful and memorable
way.
W. S, I long to hear of that.
Ä. C. When Jesus was about twelve years
of age (in the eighth year of tlie reign of
Archelaus), and Joazar being high-priest at
Jerusalem, he, according to custom, went
with his parents to the feast of the passover,
and remained there secretly while they re-
turned hom«. This, however, he did not of
curiosity, or to see the market, the pedlers,
or juggling, like other youths ; but he went
into the temple to see what was done there.
There came to him the learned rabbis,
old grey-headed men, high-priests and Phari-
sees, who sat down and commenced convers-
ing on divine things. Jesus, to the great sur-
prise of those that saw him, joined himself to
them in a becoming manner. The books
were opened, they commenced to read, to
question, and to dispute. Jesus listened to
all this. At last he proposed some important
292 THE WANDERING SOUL
question to those old men ; but how quickly
all eyes were directed towards him ; one said,
" Who is this?" the other, "What think you
of the youth?" After they had put some
questions to him, and had received wise and
judicious answers, they were greatly ama-
zed, and acknowledged that they had never
heard the like of a youth; but they were still
more astonished when they saw with what
understanding the young lad was endowed.
And after they had placed him in their midst,
in order that they all might have an opportu-
nity to see the pleasing display of his under-
standing, Joseph and Mary returned, after
having sought him for three days, not know-
ing what had become of him. Mary seemed
to be somewhat displeased that Jesus had
done so without permission ; but Jesus soon
satisfied her ; and said, " That he had to see
to the things belonging to his Father ;" and,
although he was, by parity of reasoning, not
obliged to rise, he went, met his parents, and
was obedient to them, left the company hon-
ourably, and thus leaving them a specimen of
his wisdom; however, Joseph and Mary did
not understand the divine mysteries; yet
they were very happy of the company of
such a child, and forgot all their former sor-
row, till they at last, while contemplating
what had passed, approached the hill on
Avhich Nazareth was situated, which was sur-
j ounded by a fertile country, fine towns, and
WITH SnWS CLEOPHAS. 293
splendid palaces, the most of which are now
destroyed.
W. S. I feel inclined to inquire about the
causes of this war ; but my heart is so much
transported with the pleasing narrative of Je-
sus, that I must first hear the end of that.
Now, as you say that this Jesus w^as the Son
of the most high God, did he still remain in
the service of his parents ? and was he not
sent to school, in order to become a noted
man ? Because it was not becoming for such
a distinguished youth to spend his time in
doing such work as his father was obliged to
do.
S. C. O, son, you must know that it was
not necessary for the wisdom of God to re-
sort to any such means as were found among
men. No one could increase the spirit of
God, with which Jesus filled, by any instruc-
tion, nor could it be diminished by bodily
labour. For the Pharisees, it was necessarv
to have their books ahvays before them ; but
Jesus w^anted none, because the root and
fountain ^f wisdom was in him; this he pos-
sessed to the astonishment of every one;
grown up in him naturally, like a tree.
Although he served his parents obediently,
he did not labour so much as to neglect the
works of God, nor was he idle, in order not
to make it appear as if he wished to escape
the common burden ; but to set a good exam-
ple to ,all, he gave both to body and spirit due
b2
294 THE WANDERING SOUL
attention, and behaved in such a manner so
that every one who saw him was astonished
at the wisdom and grace that shone forth in
him.
W. C. I perceive from your narration, that
althougii Jesus was famous, he was not no-
ticed by the great, and that neither Arche-
laus, nor his brother Antipas, suspected him
to be the new-born king.
S. C. That is true ; because on account of
the unequahty between Jesus and the nobi-
lity, of whom they had to be afraid. He was
never seen with any weapons, or in any
strange costume, nor did he keep company
with those of the courts of the great : he was
never seen in taverns, or in pubhc thea-
tres, nor was it ever known that he flattered
the Pharisees, Sadducees, or men of distinc-
tion, or courted their favour, as is often done
by those wishing to become great. Therefore,
Archelaus had no reason to be afraid of him.
But he had other enemies, who drove him
from his throne ; for after he had reigned but
ten years, he was impeached before Csesar,
who sent him, as supposed, into France, and
made him miserable ; and afterwards sent
Cyrenus, the governor, who sold Archelaus's
possession, and taxed the country the second
time, which created no small disturbance;
for one Judas of Galilee, born at Gamala,
resisted this taxation, and had much people
«on his side ; but he was finally killed after
WITH SIIMON CLEOPHAS. 295
much bloodshed ;
yet his sect left a root of
dissension, which made us afterwards much
uneasiness, and the governors, Coponius,
Marcus, and Amnus Rufus, each of whom
reigned two years in succession, were also
greatly troubled by them. Oh ! son, the
changes to which this country always was
subject made it unhappy. Augustus, the
emperor, also died about the same time,
and Tiberias succeeded him, who immedi-
ately sent hither Gratus as governor, who
discliarged Ananias from the office of high-
priest, and appointed one Ishmael in his
stead; afterwards he rejected him, and ap-
pointed Eleazar, the son of Ananias, for one
year ; after him, he appointed Simon, the son
of Canuthus, and after he had officiated for
one year, Joseph Caiaphas was made high-
priest. O, this Caiaphas !
W. S. Father, are you tired of your narra-
ration, or has this man done you any harm,
because you weep ?
S. C. He recalls to my memory a great and
grievous time, the cause of wiiich you will
hear by and by. Further, after this Gratus
had reigned eleven years, he was called
home, and Pontius Pilate was sent to take his
place. During his time there were conten-
tions and dissensions, because he sent the
emperor's flag with his bust into this city,
contrary to the laws of the Jews, which
caused many to go to Caesar, and entreated
296 THE WANDERING SOUL
him to quit that practice; yet when he
threatened them with death, and they still
persisted in their course, he finally granted
their petition, but had them afterwards killed
with clubs, and caused a great massacre
among the people. His appearance therefore
was not acceptable to us, and vastly different
from that of the son of David, who was now
twenty-six years of age, and secretly led a
holy life at Nazareth. O, how blessed were
the fields through which he journeyed, the
cities in wdiich he prayed, and how much
more blessed were those who saw and heard
him—who received his salutary doctrines,
and to whom he afterwards revealed himself.
W. S. But how was that ?
S. C. O, son, of that wonders are to be
told ! Do you see two burnt towers towards
sunrise ? the one a little further off than the
other, on the side of which is a high rock,
which you can see.
W. S. I see them.
S. C. There is the river Jordan, which di-
vides this from the country which lies on the
other side of Jordan : at that place there form-
erly was a fording, called Bethabara ; it Wcis
well improved, and in a fine part of the coun-
try : at that place wonders were to be seen
in the fourth year of Pilate, and in the fif-
teenth year of Tiberias, the emperor; for
there came a holy and devout man, like a
rising morning star, called John, who began
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 297
to preach : his raiment and manner of Uving
were similar to those of the prophet Elias, of
whom I told you before ; for as he was a
lineal descendant of the priesthood, and raised
in the wilderness, many became attached
to him, so that they came unto him from all
directions, and the roads w^ere continually
crowded with people. I remember it very
well, for I was then about forty years of age :
it seems to me as if I could still see how de-
voutly the people adhered to 'him. People
who were formerly rude and blasphemous,
returned as lambs ; the rigid soldiers became
mild ; the avaricious publicans, the harlots, and
other wicked persons, seemed to have en-
tirely changed their hearts; the Pharisees
stood confounded and panic-struck, not know-
ing what to think thereof; for he baptized all
these people in the aforementioned river
:
they confessed their sins w^ith tears ; while,
on the contrary, the doctrine of the Pharisees
led few to repentance. Now, as almost every
one expected a revolution or change in the
kingdom, on account of the confusion, they
thought that this John was the Redeemer
;
but he confessed that he was only sent to go
before him, and that he w^ould now soon
come. No one thought of Jesus, the son of
Joseph, w^ho, a few days afterwards, came un-
expectedly, as one of the least of the disciples,
out of Galilee, where he had remained in ob-
scurity, as under a cloud. His behaviour
298 THE WANDEHING SOUL
convinced John that he had baptized one
who was more than himself, however hum-
ble and reserved he kept himself; when he
was baptized, there were signs seen from
heaven, wdiich assured us that he was the
well-beloved Son of the Father.
W. S. Did he not immediately join him-
self to the priests, or to the court of Herod, in
order to be honoured, and be proposed for
king, as his office required ?
S. C. O, no ; he cared not for the pleasures
and joys of this world. He went into a desert,
a solitary wilderness, where he was neither
comforted by man, nor received any assist-
ance from nature ; there he remained forty
days and forty nights, fasting. In such
dreadful nights, ghosts and evil spirits were
found in abundance. But as he was a spirit-
ual king, he w^ithstood the spirits of darkness
who tempted him most virulently, and pre-
sented all their wicked temptations, in order
to conquer him; but they found themselves
much mistaken, for they met with such re-
sistance that they had to retreat with shame
;
afterwards the holy angels came as humble
ministers to feed him. O, how blessed are
they who refuse to serve the devil, and pa-
tiently wait for divine assistance as Jesus did.
W. S. That has been a wonderful king
;
but I wish to hear you further.
S. C. After that, he again came to John at
Jordan. As Jesus was walking alonff the
WITÖ SIMON CLEOPÖAS. 299
shore of the pleasant stream, like an humble,
meek lamb, at John's instance, two disciples
came to him, John i. 35, who found his com-
pany so agreeable, that they informed their
companions thereof; for they could not pos-
sibly conceal it. They who sought a Mes-
siah could not form any other opinion than
that this was the person ; his countenance
made it known, his deportment shov/ed it
:
their hearts were attracted by his words, as
if drawn by a loadstone, so that he had soon
some pious persons collected around him.
W. S. How agreeable to listen to this nar-
ration.
S. C. After this occurrence, he went with
his disciples thirteen miles through the coun-
try, till they at last came to Cana of Galilee.
There it w^as only discovered what powers he
possessed ; and when he was invited to a wed-
ding with his mother and others, he sat very
humble and quiet. When they said that they
had no wine, in confusion they looked at one
another : there was more sorrowing than
means to remedy the want of wine ; all was
confusion, and even the mother of Jesus was
troubled; but Jesus, who did not seem to be
concerned, went quietly and changed about
six pitchers of water into fine pure wine, to
show that he, as the true bridegroom, had
come, with a view to make all things better
than to make these people drunk with wine.
Every one was surprised at the pleasant taste
300 THE WANDERING SOUL
of it ; the report of this miracle circulated
quicker than any thing that was ever heard
of. John ii. 1-11. Yet he sought no praise
in these things, but went away shortly after-
wards, and travelled through cities and towns,
till he arrived, in the beginning of April, at
Jerusalem, and there attended the feast of
the passover.
W. S. Did the high-priest receive him with
respect?
S. C. Why should they have welcomed
him ? They would rather never have seen
him there, so that their misdeeds would have
remained unreproved ; for when he came into
the temple, he found in one place oxen, in
another sheep or doves, and the whole conver-
sation was about selling and purchasing, ex-
changing money, and a general confusion, to
the annoyance of the devout, who had came
there to worship. John ii. 13. Jesus, who was
inspired with zeal, made a scourge of cords
and drove the animals out of the temple, with
a noise similar to that of a rushing wind,
which shakes the leaves from trees and makes
its limbs tremble. All things began to trem-
ble ; the strangers became afraid and fled,
the tables and the benches of the money-
changers were upset, the moneybags were
emptied, so that the exchangers scarce knew
how to get away quick enough. Some mur-
mured, and seemed astonished that there was
more authority shown there than the Roman
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 301
soldiers, who stood guard at fort Antonia,
would dare to assume ; others were convinced
by this time, and believed in him, for it was
a proof of his Divine power.
W. S. It is strang-e that the chief men of
the temple, who had much power, did not
know how to oppose this !
S. C. You speak the truth ; for trifling
causes often occasion great bloodshed ; how-
ever, none resisted. He then went into the
land of Judea, where he remained and in-
creased the number of his disciples by bap-
tizing, John iii. 22, until November, when
John the Baptist was imprisoned by Herod
Antipas, Matt. iv. 12; for he could not en-
dure it that this pious man should reprove
him for his wickedness; therefore, he im-
prisoned him in the tower of Macherunthse,
which den of thieves was afterwards a
scourge to the Jews. Then Jesus went into
Galilee; and on his way thither, he taught a
Samaritan woman and her countrymen, the
Sychemites at the well, and told them that
it was not necessary to go to Mount Gerizim
to worship, but that they should worship and
serve God at any place, in spirit and in
truth. The disciples were delighted with
his doctrines, and were not offended ; in
Galilee, they also were well pleased with the
signs and wonders he did; however, his
countrymen, although he was faultless, were
nevertheless full of envy. Some despised
2C
302 THE WANDERING SOUL
his common origin, for they well knew his
father and mother, his brothers and sisters,
friends and relations ; they knew where they
resided and what they followed; all knew
that he was unlearned ; others rebuked him
for being more favourable to strangers than to
them, and to show fully that they altogether
disregarded him, they thrust him out of the
city, and led him upon a high hill in order
to throw him down. This caused a great
uproar and confusion among the people ; but
before they were aware of it, Jesus had
secretly escaped, and left them in their mad-
ness, without being able to do any thing.
Luke iv. 29, 30.
W. S. And whither did he go ?
S. C. There is a city at the sea of Galilee,
where Jordan empties into it, called Caper-
naum, which means as much as a handsome
town, for it is surrounded by a beautiful
country, and at that time there was a con-
siderable trade carried on in it. But the
beautiful city, which was exalted to heaven,
is now destroyed ; the old walls and ruined
buildings would astonish you. But to begin
the history :
—In that neighbourhood there
w^ere many fishermen; some of John's dis-
ciples had also fled thither, who, on account
of his imprisonment, were scattered. Jesus,
after he had been rejected by the Nazarenes,
came to that place also, and as he walked
along the sea, he called four of his principal
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 303
disciples to him to spread the Gospel more
than had been done before. They left their
ships and followed him, and immediately he
went into the synagogues, cast out devils,
and healed the sick. Matt. iv. 18; Mark i. 16.
To relate all he did during the two years he
lived there would be too tedious for me, yet
my heart rejoices at the recollection thereof;
for when I had become his disciple, I also
walked with hirn. But it is necessary to
adhere to the subject matter, which is, to re-
late the destruction of that city, and the
causes thereof.
W. S. Father, I pray you not to digress
from this interesting and pleasing history,
for it is certain that the glorj'" of Jesus was
still more manifested.
S. C. To gratify you, I will relate a few
circumstances which- are worthy of notice,
and from which you will be able to see what
a Divine person he was. I have said that
Jesus dwelled at Capernaum, and afterwards
travelled with his disciples through that
country into the wilderness, and ascended
the mountains. O, if I think of Mount
Tabor ! how often he prayed on it, how often
he preached on it, and how many sick he
healed there ! how many agreeable hours we
spent with him! It seems to me as if I
could ^till see all those things before me,
although eighty years have elapsed since. I
recollect, O son, how we once travelled
304 THE WANDERING SOUL
througli all Galilee ; through the cities Beth-
saida, Jamnia, Sephorim^ Magdala, Cesarea,
Philippi, Cana, Joppa, Cemerom, Cethron,
Saffa, Butia, and other towns. In all these
places he taught, and healed the sick, which
was soon reported in all the ten cities. Matt.
iv. 23, 24, 25, lying on the other side of Jor-
dan, namely, Chorazin, Gamalia, Julia, Ga-
dara, Astaroth, Jabes, Mizpa, Edrei, Ramath,
Pela, and all along Jordan towards Jerusa-
lem, and also on the other side throughout
all Syria, namely, Tyre, Sidon, Tripolis,
Damascus, Apamea, Selucia, and thence to
Antioch. The people that came from all di-
rections were innumerable. Some carried
their sick on beds and biers ; others came on
crutches. All w^as alive with people, who
cried out from afar off, "Jesus, thou son of
David, have mercy on us!" But when the
multitude followed him, he ascended the
mountain and taught them. Matt. v. 66, 67.
"We, who followed, saw how the streets were
crowded with people. The place was plea-
sant, beautifully green, the trees affording a
pleasant shade, parasoling the rays of the
sun ; besides, we were perfectly secure from
the press of the crowd. His doctrine and
preaching filled our ears, and moved our
hearts. All who heard him were astonished
at his pleasing words, because they had so
great an influence on the hearts, entirely dif-
ferent from those of the scribes and Phari-
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 305
sees, who, as scholars, ornamented their doc-
trines with fair words. After having minis-
tered the word, he healed the sick, and par-
ticularly a leper, who, as he descended the
mountain, fell down at his feet. Matt, viii
1, 2, 3.
W. S. Astonishing doings !
!
S. C. He did not only command the sick,
but also M'ind and water ; for at one time we
had gone into a ship, and suddenly the
heavens were spread over with dark clouds,
and a tempestuous storm arose on the sea; it
was so boisterous that there seemed to be no
hopes for our lives, the waves dashed against
the ship, the sails could not be managed, the
ropes broke, the mainmast was bent fright-
fully, and all of us much troubled. At last,
we, in this distress, awakened Jesus, who lay
quietly and slept ; he rose, and stood before
us like the father of a family when he re-
.
proves his blustering servants. The winds
seemed to fear him, the clouds disappeared,
the sea immediately became calm, the sails
hung down by the sides of the masts, the
stars appeared in the serene heavens, Orion,
the Wagon, the Seven Stars, and the Twins,
were seen directly over head ; and I well re-
collect how much we were astonished, and
what he did in that country. He made some
deranged and raving persons so tame in one
moment, that thej were like lambs, to the
2c2
306 THE WANDERING SOUL
great astonishment of all those who lived in
that neighbourhood. Matt. viii. 23-28.
W. S. Were it not for your age and expe-
rience, as a witness of these things, I would
be ready to doubt what you say to be true.
S. C. I know that it is almost impossible
to believe the great and unheard-of miracles
;
but I omit many things which would not less
astonish you; for he also raised the dead.
Matt. ix. 19, in a word, cured old chronic
diseases, under which many had suffered for
twelve, eighteen, thirty, and more years,
Luke xiii. 11. John v. 5 : that was all the same
to him, for even those, who, with a believing
heart, touched the hem of his garment, were
healed without entreating him to do so, so
great a virtue proceeded out of him. The
afflicted followed him everywhere, into
houses, ships, fields, wildernesses, yea, wher-
ever he went, they were about him, so that
often no time was afforded him to eat, sleep,
or to be alone for private meditation. The
cry that Jesus of Nazareth would come, that
he had been seen at that place yesterday, and
would be there on to-morrow, was often heard
long before he came to a place, upon which,
the lame and blind began to move, each
one wished to be there first, and when they
could not come to him, the roofs of the houses
in which he was were broken open, and the
sick let down before him,—so anxious were
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 307
many to be healed of their diseases ; and when-
ever healed, they w^ere also ready to praise
God. Mark ii. 3. Oh ! how often have I seen
the lame run, the blind look up towards
heaven, those who were afflicted with gout
walk, and the sick stand in astonishment, on
account of the great deeds.
W. S. All this is very interesting to hear ;
by your talk, I perceive, that you have not
been among the people at all times ; but often
troubled with him alone.
S. C. Oh ! in that you speak the truth. 1
could almost w^eep for joy, when I remember
the agreeable journeys we had with him
Sometimes we went upon a mountain, then
into an open green field, through vinej^ards,
through olive-groves, along the banks of fine
clear streams, often through thick forests, and
the high cedar-trees sheltered us from the
winds and rain. The palm and lemon-trees
protected us from the burning rays of the sun
;
the cypress-trees refreshed us by their fra-
grant smell. Often we found nothing but
thorns and thistles ; in one field we saw one
ploughing and another sowing seed ; in an-
other, a shepherd watched his flock ; but Je-
sus knew how to profit by all things we saw;
yea, I do not believe that Solomon ever
knew the nature of all thino^s as w^ell as Je-
sus ; for he could speak of all things before
the people,—of trees, herbs, grain, vineyards,
mustard, even of fishes, birds, of nets, pearls
308 THE WANDERING SOUL
stones, mountains. In short, he was familiar
with every thing ; it seemed as if all were
shadows and types of the kingdom of God.
He did not look to outward things, nor did he
care for them, but alone that the kingdom of
God (which continued for ever) might be
enlarged : this he always impressed upon our
minds, and wished to have it made known to
all. He, therefore, also selected twelve of his
followers as apostles, according to the num-
ber of the twelve tribes of Israel, again to
establish that degenerated people. Matt. x. 2.
He sent two and two together; they went
through the country in the above-mentioned
manner, through cities and towns, and wanted
nothing. They had ample time to serve God,
and to keep all the cares for this life at a dis-
tance. He was not at all concerned about the
cares of this world, which are the most inju-
rious poison by which the heart of man can
be infected. They had to keep themselves
clear from having any thing in store, in order
not to be detained on the way.
W. S. But as you were not permitted to
have any thing in store, or to care for any
such thing, had you not often to be in want ?
For I cannot conceive whence 3^ou obtained
the necessaries of life, as you did not work,
nor maintain yourselves by following any
seciilar vocation.
S. C. You will be astonished to hear how
miraculously the Lord provided, so that we
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 309
had at all times enoiijrli to subsist on. It is true,
we often had but little or no bread, but then
we would eat wild figs, apples, olives, grapes,
or such like fruit, which grew abundantly in
that country. Often we were invited, by
some one or the other, as guests ; and do you
see that village towards the south ?
W. S. Yes, I see it.
S. C. That is called Bethany : there re-
sided at that time two devout women, sisters,
who were very hospitable and benevolent
;
with them we often lodged. I cannot express
it, how friendly they treated us ; all they did
was for our good, and particularly the one of
them, called Martha. In order to serve us,
she was concerned about many things ; but
it would often have been better for her, like
her sister Mary, to have heard the sweet
words of Jesus, w^ho never was remiss in
giving good advice. But the industry of that
woman was not to be disturbed ; it seemed as
if she had nothing else to do, than to serve
and to provide for us as far as she was able.
Mary, on the contrary, considered better
things, and always sat at the feet of Jesus, to
hear the words of life, which had such an
effect upon her soul, that she often wept over
her sins ; and with a grateful heart, tasted
the grace of God. Such and similar places
there were, to which we were invited in a
friendly manner ;
yea, even by the Phari-
sees, for many were anxious to hear Jesus
^0 THE WANDERING SOUL
Luke vii. 36, and chap. xi. 27. Besides all
this, some women were so careful and ready
to -serve, that they followed and served us,
and prepared for us, so that w^e never suffered
from want. By these and similar opportu-
nities, God sent us the necessaries of life.
And what was still more astonishing, we
assisted and fed many poor and distressed
people ; for Jesus was so merciful and bene-
volent that wlierever he saw one in want,
weak or sick, hungry or thirsty, his heart was
moved to assist him ; and also of those who
seemed as if they did not belong to his people,
but followed him to hear his words : these met
from 4 to 5000, besides women and children,
and were charitably fed by him.
W. S. Stop, father, you speak as if whole
ship, wagon, and cart-loads had followed
you ; this is perhaps saying too much.
S. C. Not at all ; we had nothing provided ;
but fortunately there came a young man
who had five loaves and two fishes in his
basket, and with these, so large a multitude
of men, women, and children were fed.
W. S. Father, you are teUing incredible
things.
S. C. There are two cities on the seashore
of Galilee; one is called Tiberias, the other
Bethsaida (which were at that time still in a
flourishing condition) : between both there is
a hamlet, and at the same sea a wilderness
;
there it was, as I said before, that a multitude
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 311
was with him to hear his words. I shall
never forget the occasion ; it was in March,
a short time before Easter. Tlie landscape all
around was lovely to behold, and the fields
were decorated with green grass, variegated
and interspersed with flowers. About sunset,
many seemed to become weak ; the children
began to cry, the mothers were fatigued and
exhausted, evening approached, and every
thing began to wear a gloomy aspect. Jesus
sympathized with them, and was anxious to
see them fed, and asked advice how to do
this. One was for sending them home, an-
other said, that to buy something for the mo-
ney which we had (which was about 200
pence) would not be of any nse among so
many. But all these things did not perplex
him, because he had diiferent things in view.
lie told the people to sit down in large compa-
nies, of about one hundred and fifty : each one
was anxious to see what would take place
He then took the said five loaves and two fishes,
looked up towards heaven, thanked his hea-.
venly Father most fervently, broke them,
and commanded us to give them to the people.
We imagfined the bread would soon be con-
sumed ; but however much we gave to the
hungry multitudes, who reached for it from
all directions to satisfy their hunger, our
hands remained as full at one time as at an-
other ;
yea, it increased more in our hands
;
and more than this, what they handed ovei
312 THE WANDERING SOUL
to one another, seemed to increase in every-
one's hand. This continued till all were fully
satisfied, and then there were, to the great as-
tonishment of all present, twelve baskets full
of fragments left. One thought of the manna
in the wilderness, another of the prophet Eli-
sha, who had done nearly the same thing
;
some said this is the prophet of whom Moses
spoke. Again, others would make him king,
in order that he might release us from the
Romans. John vi. 14^ 15. In short, every
one was excited; but as night approached,
Jesus went away on a mountain to pray.
W. S. There must have been great power
in his words.
S. C. That is true ; besides this, he was so
friendly, that he gained tlie hearts of many,
for in hearing his words we often forgot eat-;
ing and drinking. Once it happened, that we
made a voyage in the same ship with him,
and came to the shore in such a short time,
that it was astonishing to all of us ; for at
first we had to steer with great difficulty,
without g-ettina: alono- at all, he, at the same
time stood at the shore, and saw us labour ;
he then walked on the sea and came to us
This he did to test our faith, and to see how
we would behave ; afterwards he comforted
us in our distress, like a father does his dear
children, and remained with us. Matt. xiv.
24. Mark vi. 47. John vi. 16.
W. S. I am as much pleased with his
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS 313
goodness, as I am astonished at his deeds
and works!
S. C. He, Hke a powerful loadstone, drew
the hearts of all men to himself. Even the
disciples of John came to him about that
time, and were afraid, and communicated
the melancholy news that John had been put
to death by Herod, at Macherunthse, on
account of the false accusations of Hero-
dias, his adulterous wife. Matt. xiv. 3; vi. 17.
Herod's court was rejoicing, revelling, dan-
cing, and playing ; but these were full of
sorrow. They could hardly tell, for grief,
how wickedly the old bawd had put the
bloody head of their dear master into a dish
for a show, and pierced with her hair-pin
his tongue, which had reproved her adidter-
ous life. The recollection of the innocence
of their master grieved them much. What
did Jesus? He, in a friendly manner, com-
forted them, led them into a wilderness, and
bid them to rest and comfort themselves.
W. S. That was as a mollient balm for the
wounded heart.
S. C. This is true, but it would not do
long, for they had again to go amongst the
people. Jesus visited many places, to teach
and to preach, and to do miracles and signs;
and wherever he went, the people from the
cities met him in ships, wagons, carts,, and
even afoot, according to their several oppor-
tunities. They left their trades and bust-
2D
314 THE WANDERING SOTTL
nesses to follow him ; some out of curiosity ;
others to receive instruction ; and others to
be healed of their infirmities, because nothing
was impossible for him. He raised the dead,
cleansed the lepers, cast out devils, and knew
how to answer every one, in whatever man-
ner they approached him, so that the whole
country was full of his deeds.
W. S. What opinion had they of him gene-
rally, because he did such great things ?
S. C. They could come to no certain con-
clusion about him. Some were of the opinion
of Pythagoras, that the souls would depart
from one body into another, and therefore
said that he was John the Baptist; others,
because he did many wonders, said that he
was Elias; and others, because he com-
manded all earnestly to repent, said he was
Jeremiah, or at least one of the old prophets,
by whom, in former times, God redeemed
and visited his people. But none knew to a
certainty who he was.
W. S. His appearance must indeed have
been prepossessing, because they compared
him with such distinguished persons.
S. C Touching his person, it was of more
than ordinary symmetry and beauty. His ap-
pearance was venerable. He was of middle
stature. His hair of hazel colour, parted on the
crown, as is customary with the Nazarenes
;
his beard was also hazel colour, and not very
long. His face was smooth and handsome,
WITH SIMON CLEOrHAS. 315
without wrinkles or spots ; his cheeks tint-
ed with red. He seldom spoke. When ex-
horting, he w^as mild, but zealous in reprov-
ing. He never was seen to laugh, but often
weeping. He was free from the passion of
anger and malice. In his manners and beha-
viour, he was so inimitable, that it might
well be said, " He was the chief among the
sons of men !"
W. S. O, how blessed were the eyes that
saw him, and the ears that heard him
!
S. C. Yea, those who knew his doings, and
learned obedience from him, were still more
blessed, for his glory w^as not of external ap-
pearance, for he did not reveal himself to the
multitude, but only to his intimate friends,
as three of his apostles, namely, Peter, James,
and John, have told us ; for at one time they
were on Mount Tabor, praying, when his
countenance became as bright as the sun,
and his raiment exceedingly white and shi-
ning ; on both sides there stood two holy per-
sons, namely, Moses and Elias. Matt. xvii.
It cannot he expressed what glory and sw^eel
intercourse we had there. O, they wished
that it might continue so always ; they never
thought of parting; they were sorrowful
when it was over. At that time there w^as
nothing in the w^orld they thought of; they
fancied themselves to be in heaven ; they
even thought that in heaven there w^as no
greater perfection of felicity. With tears
316 THE WANDERING SOUL
they related with what love they were filled
towards the saints. O, how they were in-
fluenced towards one another ! How lovely
the voice out of heaven sounded, which tes-
tified of Him. Their troubles and sufferings
were merely spoken of; but their hearts
ceased not to enjoy that inward joy. At last
a godly fear seized them, so that they seem-
ed to be quite beside themselves; and that,
by the overshadowing of Divine rays, they
Avere now no more astonished at his many
signs, but far more that such a divine person
should humble himself so much as to be sub-
jected to all this reproach, trials, and suffer-
ings, among the children of men. He did
not wish to have this transfiguration known,
so that his coming sufferings might, in no
manner, be diminished; for so great was
his humility. These things they related to
us afterwards, for they knew not but that
he had gone on the mountain to pray, as he
often did, for he often spent w^hole nights in
prayer, and rose early in the morning to at-
tend to acts of devotion in solitude. He also
was for a time with us in Galilee, in deserts,
and other places ; taught and instructed us
concerning the things necessary to salvation.
W. S. But did he no more walk in public
before the people ?
S. C. Certainly, much more so in the last
year than ever before. He now wished to
dig about the tree and manure it, in hopes
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 317
that it would yet bring forth fruit : but he
first selected seventy of his disciples, as he
had done before wdth the twelve ; for he in-
tended to leave Capernaum, where he had
been for two years, and, for the last time, to
go through all the country. The doctrines
and sermons he preached, and signs and
wonders which he did as he travelled, as
well as the persecutions he suffered, cannot
be fully described.
W. S. Father, it seems to me as if it
grieved you to relate this.
S. C. O, when I think of the feast of ta-
bernacles; it was in September, and with us
citrons and other fruit were plenty. Jesus
kept himself hid for a long time, for there
was a great uproar among the people. Some,
who had heard his useful doctrines and saw
his miracles, said that he was the very Christ,
for otherwise it would not be possible for
him to do such works; his devout deport-
ment also show^ed that he was a great pro-
phet. When w^as there ever such things
heard of a man? Those who were of the
same mind with the Pharisees, cried out,
that he was a deceiver, and that there would
be an insurrection in the country on his ac-
count. Afterwards, as soon as Jesus revealed
himself, every one was astonished at his doc-
trine, for it flowed from his lips like streams
of living water; they were convinced, and
many were constrained to believe. The
•3d 2
318 THE WANDERING SOUL
Pharisees were ready to vent their rage.
Crowds of people were to be seen every-
where; one cried out one thing, another
something else. When they came with
spears and staves to take Jesus prisoner, an
insurrection was expected, and I well recol-
lect how much we were afraid; yet our jour-
ney turned out well. However, the day of
trouble and trial was near at hand. The
Jews were raging mad. The disputes be-
came to be more serious ; their rancorous
clamour increased, till the stones began to be
thrown as thick as hail ; but the meek lamb,
although he could have slain all at a word,
left them raging and went away secretly,
John viii. 59 ;
yet he ceased not to do good.
He found one born blind ; to him he restored
his sight. John ix. 1. This created a new
disturbance among the Pharisees ; they col-
lected together and held a council, and put
their ingenuity at invention to find an accu-
sation against him ; but he showed himself
as a faithful shepherd, who had come to feed
the souls of his sheep. John x. 12. He,
therefore, again went out of this city to the
other side of Jordan, whither a great multi-
tude of people resorted to him, and even
some of the Pharisees and scribes, who
were always watching to ensnare him in his
words.
W. S. What made them so exasperated at
him''
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. $W
S. C. Because his doctrine was so very
ditferent from theirs. They showed them-
selves holy before men, but all they cared for
was to keep the Sabbath, wash their hands,
and to bathe themselves often, to appear fast-
ing, to make a great noise by praying before
men, to gain great praise and honour ; but
their hearts were unchanged, full of avarice,
murder, and wickedness. Jesus reproved
them for all this ; he told them that he did
not regard their outward hypocrisy, nor their
traditions, but he insisted upon a pure heart
and a correspondent life with their profes-
sion ; that they should love their enemies,
not to lay up treasures upon earth, nor to
seek for a kingdom in this world. Matt. xvi.
•26. He cautioned his disciples and the com-
mon people to beware of hypocrisy and of
the Pharisees ; this enraged them very much,
for they perceived that if his doctrine would
prevail, that their power would be put down
and could not exist; to love one's enemies and
not to offend them, not to seek for riches
and strive to be great in the world. On ac-
count of this they derided him as much as
they could, said he profaned the Sabbath,
that he was deranged and had a devil, John
V. 16, chap. X. 20 ; and, again, that he was
the friend of publicans and sinners; and
the like did they allege against him. Matt
xiv. 19.
320 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. I am informed of this. But now I
wish to hear more of the history.
S. C. Jesus travelled through the country,
and went through cities, towns, and villages,
taught and preached everywhere, and healed
the people. He taught them to deny them-
selves, to take up the cross, and not to love su-
premely any thing in this world. Matt. xvi.
24. He taught by parables ; and many
came to him daily, one had one thing to say,
another something else. He constantly ex-
horted them—^he never indulged in trifling
conversation.
W. S. It is easy to believe that many
things were brought before him, for all man-
ner of people came to him.
S. C. This is true ; not all came to seek
their salvation, but some even to request of
him that he should assist him in dividing
their temporal possessions, Luke xii. 13
;
others, out of curiosity, in order to ascertain
whether many or few would be saved. Chap,
xiii. 23. Others were curious to hear him ;
for there were many reports circulated
through the country of things that had hap-
pened ; how Herod Antipater was defeated
of the king of Arabia, called Aretas, and
routed all his people, and revenged the rejec-
tion of his daughter, the wife of the aforesaid
Antipas, and the reception of the adulterous
Herodias. Many rejoiced at this defeat of
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 321
Antipas, because he had killed John the Bap-
tist innocently. Others related how Pilate
had killed some wicked Galileans, and
mingled their blood with their sacrifices ; and
that the tower of Siloam fell suddenly and
killed eighteen men. The people seemed
much concerned about these and similar
things, and to judge who might be guilty or
innocent, and brought the question before
Jesus. But to all this he answered them so
definitely, that they never left him unin-
structed. They passed through Samaria and
Galilee, where he cleansed ten lepers, Luke
xvii. 12, who very humbly entreated him ;
and they came again to Jerusalem to the
feast of dedication. John x. 22. There he
again found much to do ! It was in De-
cember. Jesus walked about in Solomon's
porch, when some malicious Jews formed a
circle around him, and intended to compel
him to say whether he was Christ ; for they
still recollected the tumult that took place
on his account, at the feast of Tabernacles,
for that tumult was not wholly settled at that
time ; and although Jesus made humble and
satisfactory answers, they, as wicked men,
came to him with their hands full of stones,
in order to argue by blows. Jesus now went
again out of the city, and came to Bethabara,
near Jordan. Oh ! how often did he go sor-
rowful through the gates of the valley, of
which a few pieces are still to be seen, and
322 THE WANDERING SOUL
fled towards Jordan. There always were
rods to scourge the country, as you see to-
day.
W. S. How long did he remain at that
place ?
S. C. Not long ; for he found occasion to
return to Jerusalem.
W. S. Had he again to go among that
wicked people ?
S. C. His disciples would have preferred
staying on the other side of Jordan ; for the
recollection of the spiteful and angry conduct
of those villains, how they gnashed their
teeth and took up stones, was still fresh in
their minds, and also the fears, trouble, and
sorrow they had to encounter on his account.
But Jesus, who was all benevolence, seemed
to have forgotten all that ; the importance of
the journey made him forget all this.
W. S. The necessity of this must have
been very great. Be pleased to proceed with
your narration.
S. C. In the town of which I have told you
before, there lay one of his dearest friends
sick, called Lazarus, John xi. I, and he was
invited bv his sisters, who had often enter-
tained us. But when he arrived there, Laza-
rus had died, yet he was constrained by love,
and still wished to go hither.
W. S. Did his disciples go with him ?
S. C. Yes ; but with fear and trembling :
some altogether declined.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 323
W. S. Did he go there to comfort his
friends ?
S. C. Yes, and to raise their brother Laza-
rus from the dead.
W. S. O, what an astonishing miracle !
S. C. Jesus therefore went five miles
through a forest, mountains and fields, till he
came to Bethany, where he found great cry-
ing and weeping for Lazarus. Many from
Jerusalem were there ; the sorrowful sisters
ran to receive Jesus respectfully, the minis-
tering Martha first, and then the silent Mary.
They knew nothing of what Jesus intended
to do, for their hearts were filled with sorrow
;
all that were present, even Jesus himself,
wept when they showed him the grave. It
cannot be expressed with w^hat great aston-
ishment every one looked on when the dead
man, by virtue of Jesus, began to rise and
come out of the grave, and opened his eyes
;
and when his paleness changed into a fine
red, and his arms and hands began to move
as if he had been awakened out of sleep. The
news of this great miracle was reported
everywhere in the same hour, the whole city
was full thereof, they spoke of it in compa-
nies, at market, at meals, and all assemblies ;
it seemed that every one was ready to go and
see whether it was true. Many began finally
to believe that he was Christ ; and that the
Pharisees knew nothing about him.
W. S. But how was this received ?
324 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. So important a thing had never hap-
pened before. They began to fear about the
destruction of the country, for if they had
proposed Jesus for king (many murmured
thereat) the Romans would not have suffered
it, but destroyed the whole country; therefore
seventy-two chief counsellors met, to hold a
conference about this, and to prepare for the
event. They all took their seats, and various
resolutions were offered ; for the cause was
important to the whole country. At last a re-
solution was offered by Josephus Caiaphas,
that there was no other remedy than that Je-
sus should die, and that by the first opportu-
nity. Oh, how blindly were all these things
done. That which they imagined to be a
remedy, was the very cause of all their
misery that happened them ; for now the
country is desolated by the Romans, not by
Jesus, but by their own commotion. The
news of this sentence soon reached Jesus;
for shortly thereafter, public edicts were put
up, in which they were commanded to seize
Jesus, to deliver him into the hands of the
Sanhedrim, or chief council.
W. S. How did- Jesus behave when he
heard of those measures ?
S. C. He went away, on account of their
bitterness, into his solitary place with us,
which was a desert near the city of Ephraim,
not far from Jericho. That country was ex-
ceedingly pleasant, the palm-trees were beau-
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 225
tifuUy green, the roses in full bloom, which,
together with the precious balsam that grows
there, emitted a fragrant flavour. The sun
shone bright, for it was in the spring of the
year when we were there, and remained du-
ring the month of March. Here it was more
agreeable to be than among the exasperat(»-d
Pharisees ; we heard none other than words
of consolation from the bridegroom of life,
which were chiefly exercises of prayer and
meditation. We would willingly have re-
mained there always, but as the feast of the
passover was approaching, he spoke about
going away, and told us of the sufferings that
awaited him. Matt. xx. 17, which grieved us
in our hearts. There arose a dispute among
us ; for one w^as for having dominion over the
rest, another murmured against it ; but he
soon appeased us wisely. Luke xxii. 24.
We then passed through Jericho, where
many people followed him, w^hich he taught,
and tw^o poor beggars whom he restored to
their sight, and they thanked him devoutly.
Matt. XX. 22. He was benevolent and kind
to all, even to sinners who came to him with a
penitent heart ; as did one of the chief among
the publicans, named Zaccheus, Luke xix. 1,
whose heart was so touched by the attracting
love of Jesus, that he willingly divided the one
half of his possessions among the poor ; he
wept on account of his sins. But to proceed
with our journey, be it known to you, as we
2E
326 THÉ WANDERING SÖUL
passed through the desert Quarintania, and
seeing the ancient ruins of cities, and passing
on, we saw the splendid buildings of Jerusa-
lem, the royal palace, the fortification of An-
tonia, the town of Ophel, Mount Acre with
all its buildings on it, as well as Mount Be-
setha. But the splendour of the temple ex-
ceeded all. Seeing all these things, our minds
were dijfferently impressed on account of
what we apprehended that would take place.
But we left the city on our rights and went
to see our friends at Bethany.
W. S. How glad the friends must have
been when their good shepherds arrived.
S. C. 0,1 cannot express it how welcome
we were there. There was a devout excite-
ment among the whole of them ; with a sor-
rowful heart they told us of the malice of the
Pharisees, how they inquired for Jesus, and
had issued edicts for that purpose. They
thought that if we would go into the city,
they would lay hands on us. But Jesus, in
a friendly and kind manner, answered that
he had been sent by his Father, to suffer on
that festival day. When we were all in deep
sorrow they prepared a supper, at which
Martha served with such diligence as if that
were to be the last time. Although there was
enough to eat and to drink, we could not eat for
sorrowing ; and the thoughts of the antici-
pated sufferings of Jesus filled all of us with
grief, and particularly Mary, the sister of
WITH STMON CLEOPHAS. 327
Lazarus, sat and wept bitterly on that ac-
count, and as if she meant to presage his
burial, poured a glass full of precious oint-
ment on his head, and bathed his feet with
her tears ; and at opening the ointment box,
the house was filled with so pleasant an odour,
as if the bodies of us all had been anointed.
We were astonished at the great love of this
woman, for 90 pence would not have paid, for
this ointment. From her fingers dropped
myrrh ; and all, with the exception of one,
who designed nothing good, wept bitterly;
yet that one feigned to weep. O, the fetlse
hypocrite
!
W. S. Father, this history affects you very
much ; who could this have been ?
S. C. According to appearance, he was an
apostle who sat with us ; but in his heart he
was a traitor, he was very properly called Is-
cariot, that is, a grave planted with thorns.
He was angry and filled with wrath, and
showed a depraved heart at this anointing.
He was determined to bring us into difficul-
ties, and went into the chamber where the
council of the high-priest were sitting- They
looked at him with much pleasure, because
he was one of the disciples of Jesus, and
asked him what news they had brought them.
He gave them to understand what he in-
tended, namely, that he would betray his
master into their hands if they would give
328 THE WANDERING SOUL
him money enough. His eyes, his very
appearance was much altered, for the devil
had taken all the good that Jesus had taught
him out of his heart, and filled it with an
evil spirit, else it would have been impossible
for him to do such a thing. The chief-priests,
who had not thought of such a thing, were
much pleased, promised him money, and
agreed with him for thirty pieces of silver,
on condition that he should betray him in the
night, without making a disturbance, or wait
for an opportunity at some other time. With
this treacherous heart he again came to us,
but we knew nothing thereof Jesus, who
by his divine power, knew all things, saw
his bargaining, yet he said nothing to him,
but bore it patiently, evinced the greatest
friendship towards him, for . he took it as
coming from his heavenly Father.
W. S. I know not what to be most aston-
ished at, the malice of the traitor or the pa-
tience of Jesus, for both create an ocean of
thought ! But I am anxious to hear more of
this history.
S. C. Next day was Sunday, and Jesus, in
order to fulfil the prophecy, entered the city
on an ass, and therefore he sent two of his
disciples to fetch it. In the mean time, we, in
company with him, reached the village, situ-
ated on Mount Olivet, called Bethany ; the
few remaining ruins of the wall show that it
Jesus enters Jerusalem.—pag. 328.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 329
had been larger than it is now. You also see
a road on the one side of the mountain. Matt,
xxi. 1.
W. S. I see it.
S. C. There they met us with the ass,
stopped and placed the Lord of lords there-
on, and they hung the ass all over with
clothes. But before he went away, a great
many people assembled themselves, and
came out of the city, not armed with wea-
pons, but with green birch, in order to escort
their king in triumph into the city. There
was great rejoicing and crying ; the road to
Jerusalem, which was a distance of nearly
two miles, w^as strewed with green branches
of palm, olive, and other trees that gre^\'
along the roadside. All were full of joy
;
some took off their clothes and spread them
on the road, as if they meant to escort a
mighty prince; every one looked on Jesus,
who could be seen above all the rest, riding,
surrounded by a host of his disciples. The
palm-limbs, on all sides, had the appearance
of a forest, there w^ere so many of them. " Ho-
sanna to the son of David ! Blessed is he
who cometh in the name of the Lord," was
a general song. The disciples then related
the good deeds which had been done by his
hands—how he made the deaf hear, the blind
see, the dumb speak, the lame walk, and
many other things he had done ;
yea, that he
even raised the dead. Whereupon the people
2 E 2
330 THE WANDERING SOUL
testified tliat tliey had lately seen Lazarus,
who rose from the dead, and cried, "Hosanna
in the highest ! Blessed be the kingdom of
our father DaA id !" The cry was so great
and general, that the Pharisees could not
bear it, went to Jesus, and entreated him to
command his disciples to quit this boisterous
work (as they called it). But Jesus told
them that it was impossible now to be silent,
and not to praise God, and that otherwise
the stones would cry out. Now, when he
came to the foot of the hill, where he saw the
city plainly, which was very handsome and
splendid, and also the beautiful temple, with
its golden roof glittering in the sunshine, to-
gether with the white and precious stones of
its walls, and at the same time considered its
future condition, because he, by his Divine
prescience, saw all the distress and misery
that would befall it, and which they experi-
enced indeed, and in reality : and more than
all this, that these judgments would come
over it, on account of its sins, of w^hich they
would not repent, but continued to be im-
penitent ; seeing all this, he wept bitterly,
Luke xix. 41, so that none of us could refrain
from tears. He lamented their blindness,
and foretold their downfall. He at last rode
into the city, with his eyes and cheeks still
wet with tears ; entered the gate which stood
here at Mount Zion, called the Watergate (of
which you see nothing now but broken
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 331
Stones). Now, when he came into the city,
the multitude raised a great excitement, the
doors and windows liew open, all were
amazed, and asked, " Who is this ?" But the
host that followed, answered, " This is Jesus,
the prophet of Nazareth, of Galilee."
W. S. O, what a glorious entrance, for an
unknown monarch ! But what did he do in
the city ?
S. C. All that he thought had to be done
before his suiferings. First, according to his
custom, he went into the temple, and again
drove the money-changers and merchants
out. Matt. xxi. 12, as he had done at the com-
mencement of his ministry ; and when the
Pharisees questioned him on account thereof,
he, by three parables, gave them to under-
stand their disobedience, wrath, and unright-
eousness. He taught in the temple for three
days, and every evening he went out to
Bethany, or remained on the Mount of Olives
through the night. During this time he had
to experience many trials, much questioning
and disputing to suffer from the Pharisees,
Sadducees, and Herodians, who aimed at
nothing- but how to entangle him in his
words. But his judicious answers quieted
them, and met them in such a manner so
that they dared not to question him any
more. Afterwards he rebuked the hypocrisy
of the Pharisees, and told them of their de-
struction, on account of all the blood that had
332 THE WANDERING SOUL
been shed in Jerusalem. On Tuesday eve
ning he went out of the temple, and the dis-
ciples showed the building of the temple to
him with astonishment, together with its
stones, which were so artfully joined together
that the joints could not be seen. The doors
of the temple were made in the same manner.
Notwithstanding, Jesus told them that not
one stone would be left upon another (which,
although it then seemed impossible, happened
in my time), as you, O son, may see at this day.
In the evening, as we went out of the city,
and sat on this hill, called the Mount of
Olives, he foretold us all concerning the siege
of the city, and what trouble, fear, a]:id anx-
iety would happen to the citizens, the misery
that vv^ould befall the whole country, the
hunger, pestilence, war, and bloodshed. It
seems to me as if I still heard him relate it
with such anxiety of soul, that his words
pierced our hearts, and were not spoken in
vain ; for just so it happened as he told us,
as you may see it this very day.
W. S. Then you sat there till late in the
night?
»S. C. With us the night was mostly spent
in speaking of things divine ;
particularly
at that time when Jesus prepared himself to
leave this world. On yonder hill there was
at that time a village, called Gethsemane
;
there was a garden there, into which we
often went to exercise ourselves in prayer;
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 333
for it was a very suitable, silent, and solitary
place. Now, when Jesus had spent nearly
two days in devotions, and the Pharisees, at
the same time holding a council, so that he
foresaw his death, he, like a father, declared
his last will to his disciples : and on Thurs-
day evening-, when the passover had been
prepared, according to law, and after the
same had been eaten, he, with all the humi-
lity of a servant, subjected himself to his
disciples, washed their feet, wiped them off,
then again put on his clothes, and in great
solemnity, broke the bread and divided it
among us, and the cup likewise, and declared
that in like manner he would offer up his
body to be broken for us. Matt. xxvi. 26 ;
which we did not at that time rightly under-
stand. But when we saw^ his body hanging
on the cross all torn and mangled, so that the
blood streamed out of it like water ; ah ! then
we understood what he meant by breaking
the bread. Never before could we have ima-
gined that the love of Christ was so great,
and that the breaking of the bread was so
great a mystery. But we, ourselves, experi-
enced, beard, and saw it, so that at all times
thereafter, we kept it up as a necessary ordi-
nance, that not a particle of his bitter suffer-
ings might be forgotten among us. Give me
your attention further. When he had se-
cretly exposed his betrayer, who like a thief
had been excluded, in order to accomplish his
334 THE WANDERING SOUL
wicked design, when he thought that was
now the proper time to deUver liiin whom he
had sold ; Jesus, seeing that we were very
sorrowful, comforted us like a father. O, I
cannot describe how sweet the words were
we heard at that time. When he went away
we followed him, and he taught us on the
road, and told us of many future things, as
he was wont to do, so that our hearts burned
with love towards him, and it seemed to us as
if we could die for him. Peter, with a sword,
went on before us, as if he was willing to de-
stroy all ; but alas ! it proved to be nothing
but children's play, blindness and ignorance.
In such cases other swords are to be made
use of, such as this hero and captain of faith
did afterwards use. When we arrived in the
aforementioned garden, he went away from
us in great sorrow, and prayed fervently, for
anxiety and trouble had encompassed him
;
life and death contended ; his humanity placed
before his view all the terrible sufferings,
scourgings, shame, and derision which the
Jews would inflict upon him, and the dread-
ful agony of death. Matt. xxvi. 36. Mark
xiv. 32. Lukexxii. 39. All these unjust judg-
ments, pain, and torments, which (had he
been willing to avail himself of his power)
he might have escaped, made his soul sor-
rowful unto death. However, his solici-
tude for our salvation, and the saving of many
thousands of souls by his sufferings, who
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 335
would afterwards enjoy eternal happiness,
bore him up amidst all this. Notwithstand-
ing, he prayed to his heavenly Father^ that
if it were possible, this cup might pass from
him ; and this he did three times. O, son !
you may imagine what agony he suffered,
when his sweatlike drops of blood fell on the
earth; and had not an angel from heaven
strengthened him, his sufferings would have
been still greater. At last he ceased to con-
tend with death, and resigned himself to the
will of his heavenly Father, who, by his eter-
nal wisdom, had ordered these sufferings to
befall him ; and by this, his obedience, he
regained what Adam, by his disobedience,
had lost. Adam, contrary to the will of God,
fulfilled the will of his flesh, and thereby in-
herited death. Christ, contrary to the will
of the flesh, fulfilled the will of God, and in-
herited eternal life. Both happened in a
garden ; both concerned the whole human
family.
W. S. This is a good explanation, but I
long to hear the rest of the narration.
S. C. He had hardly endured this great
temptation, before a great noise was heard of
men running all around the garden. Matt.
xxi. 47. Mark xiv. 43. Luke xxii. 47. They
were not ashamed to make use of the time
of devotion. The disciples were suddenly
awakened out of their sleep ; the torches
shone bright, and the weapons rattled, which
336 THE WANDERING SOUL
caused great terror among them, John xviii.
3 ;
yet they became somewhat encouraged,
when they saw that the bold horsemen, at
the words of Jesus, fell backwards, and that
the cruel soldiers stood with trembling hands
and pale countenances alongside of Judas,
who, in order to accomplish his hypocritical
designs, dared kiss Jesus with his unhallow-
ed lips. At this, they laid hold of Jesus, ropes
were brought, the sword brandished, for
Peter resisted as far as he could. But, dear
friend, very fortunately for himself, he drew
the sword to slay the high-priest's servant,
named Malchus; he did not hit his head, but
his ear, and cut it off. All this, however,
was not approved of by the merciful Jesus,
who reproved Peter, and benevolently healed
the servant's ear. Oh, he showed himself in
no other manner than as the Lamb of God, in
whom there was no anger. After that he
was taken and bound by order of the great
men of the temple, who were permitted for a
short time to exercise their power and au-
thority, and they fancied themselves to be
great lords. They dragged and drove him
over hills and dales, and never had any
thoughts that they would also be bound by
thousands in the same manner, and sold as
servants to the Romans
!
W. S. Thus they did not reflect on the
consequences of their deeds. But what did
they do with Jesus ?
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 337
S. C. First, they brought him to Annas,
where he was struck in the face ; thence he
was taken through the streets to Caiaphas,
the high-priest. The common people did
not know what was going on. In the morn-
ing, one neighbour inquired of another,
"What running there was in the night?"
"Oh," said the other, "I heard that they
took Jesus of Nazareth prisoner." The good
man (the other one) would say, "Have they
taken him prisoner ? It would be better if
they would take thieves and murderers pri-
soners, as there are so many of them in the
country." John xviii. 13. Matt. xvi. Mark
xiv. 53. Luke xxii. 54. John xviii. 19.
W. S. As to their going before Caiaphas,
there, I suppose, the bow was already bent.
S. C. Oh, son, there they sat, and were as
full of anger as a lion ; there were Caiaphas,
Joazarus, Ishmael, Simon, Canuthus's son,
Joannas, Alexander, and many others be-
longing to his council. There the inno-
cent Lamb stood mute before his shearers.
Two villains stood at the fire ; I do not re-
member all they said, falsely, to accuse
Jesus. There it was plainly seen how much
a good conscience can bear silently. But
Caiaphas was anxious to get up something
that would operate against him. He said that
Jesus confessed that he was the Son of God.
This enraged every one. One threw up his
hands ; another tore his clothes ; tlie costly
2F
338 THE WANDERING SOUL
garments of the higli-priest were torn in
pieces, and this presaged that this office
would soon, like a rent garment, be useless.
Every one seemed willing to have Jesus
condemned to death. Meanwhile the villains
who held Jesus mocked and reviled him;
their behaviour was very rude and wicked.
They spit into his face, covered it up and
struck him with their fists, saying, "Pro-
phesy to us, Christ." But, my dear friend,
their wicked behaviour prophesied unto the
country, that it would be made the scene of
mockery for ever by the heathens. This
wicked rabble (which now is as much at
liberty as they were at the time when they
were perfectly masters) slew their priests
like dogs, without judge, jury, or sentence
!
W. S. O, how man will often work out
his own destruction
!
S C. You may well say so. Now, at the
break of day, they unanimously condemned
him to death. Matt, xxvii. 1 ; to which no-
thing was wanting but the consent of the
chief magistrate of the Romans, Pontius
Pilate, who had, as I said before, come into
the city Gratus, and was now a judge for
nearly six years. There they concerted on
apian what to prefer against Jesus, and urged
it with so much vehemence, that Pilate
would be obliged to give his consent to their
judgment. They, therefore, concluded to
take him to that place.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 339
W. S. What did the disciples do in the
mean time ?
S. C. O, they were scattered like sheep
without a shepherd. The sad news soon
reached Bethany, where it occasioned much
weeping and sighing among the women
who followed him from afar, for they loved
him ardently. Peter pursued a bad course
;
his reputation was laid into the dust ; for in-
stead of assisting Jesus and comforting him,
he shamefully denied him, for his heart was
encompassed with fear. When he was in
the midst of the soldiers, every one attacked
him to ascertain whether he felt sorry for
what had happened ; but he had to confess
that he was too weak, and Jesus had to
tread the wnne-press alone, without any as-
sistance. Matt. xxvi. 69. Mark xiv. 66. Luke
xxii. 55. John xviii. 17. 25, 26, 27.
W. S. This is all true; however, I am not
so much astonished at the weakness of Peter,
as at the blindness of the high-priests, who, as
spiritual builders of the house of God, ought
3 have been wiser than to condemn Jesus,
who was the true corner-stone of the whole
building.
S. C It is written that this corner-stone
would be rejected by the builder, of which
there was a fiorure in the buildingr of the tem-
pie, as our parents have related to us; for
there was a stone which was altogether un-
even and fit for nothing in the walls of the
34Ö THE WANDERING SOtTL
building. Besides it had lain in the mud for
a long time, so that every one walked over
it; but vs^hen the building was nearly finish-
ed, there remained an opening above which
could not be shut up completely, in spite of
all the pains they took. They hewed and
formed other stones as well as they could,
but there always remained an opening,
either on the one or the other side, so that
they knew not how to shut it up completely.
At last they remembered this stone, which
lay in the mud, rejected by the builders,
which, when it was brought, closed it up
completely, that none could have done it so
well. This stone, therefore, became the head
of the corner, which was astonishing in the
eyes of men ;
yet the Lord had done it, to
serve as a figure of Christ Jesus. Besides, it
is necessary to know, that the divine light
did not always accompany the learned cir-
cles, but often passed by them ; and that i
pleased God particularly to use the unlearn-
ed as instruments of salvation, in order,
thereby, to make ashamed the wise and pru-
dent.
W. S. I am pleased with this, and wish to
hear the remainder of this narration.
S. C. They then dragged Jesus before the
judge, Matt, xxvii. 1. Mark xv. 1. Luke
xxiii. 1. John xviii. 28, who was much sur-
prised to hear so great a noise before his
door so early. When he came to the door,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 341
he saw many spears and weapons, and a
very fine pei'son, who stood as a prisoner,
bound in the midst of them, and against
whom the high-priests were dreadfully en-
raged ; they shook their heads—all accused
him. But, by the patient behaviour of
Jesus, and the bitterness of his opponents,
Pilate soon discovered that they accused
him falsely; notwithstanding, the innocent
Lamb was brought to Herod, who lived a
great ways off. Luke xxiii. 7. Oh, the run-
ning through streets, and the cries they
made, I shall never forget. The courtiers
mocked when they saw him. The degene-
rated novices, whose ears itched, found no
pleasure in this suffering king. They mock-
ed him by putting a white garment on him,
and led him again, with shouting and cry-
ing, through the streets to the house of
Pilate. But, alas! how dreadful an end did
those streets take ! How are they now re-
duced to ashes, and how has the whole city
become the object of ridicule and scorn of
the whole world ! O, well-deserved punish-
ment ! How was Herod, before seven years
had expired, mocked and laughed at, before
Caius's, the emperor's, council : how shame-
fully was he driven away, like a thief, strip-
ped of all his possessions and honour, as an
exile in the distant country of France. On the
road, he might well think that now he had
become a derided king, instead of the inuo-
2f2
342 THE WANDERING SOUL
cent Jesus, who was dressed in white, B.nC
exhibited as a pubUc spectacle !
W. S. Father, you have digressed from
your subject. I would rather hear how it
terminated with Jesus.
S. C. O, son, that occurrence wounds my
heart the more because I have lived to see
all these things. But when Pilate again
saw Jesus, he tried every expedient to re-
lease him; he declared to them that, accord-
ing to their custom, he had to release one
prisoner, yet he selected a worthless one,
who had occasioned much dissension and
murder ; and because all people hated that
one, he placed him alongside of Jesus, hoping
that they would surely be so wise as not to
favour the villain instead of Jesus, who was
so fine a person, and had done so much good
that many loved him. But he was deceived,
for it took a very different course from what
he had expected. Matt, xxvii. 15. Mark xv.
6. Luke xxiii. 17. John xviii. 39, 40.
W. S. Is it possible that it terminated
otherwise ?
S. C. You will hear that. Pilate then stood
in the judgment-hall, with Christ and Barab-
bas at his side, bound ; and as the people
had assembled in great multitudes, who
came from distant places, namely, from Gali-
lee, Samaria, and other places, to the feast, he
asked all those present, whom of these two
thev wished him to release, Barabbas or Jesus?
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 343
Then they consulted and considered, and
turned their eyes on Barabbas, then again on
Jesus, whom they very well knew, for it was
currently known how much good he had
done everywhere; how he made the blind
see, the deaf hear, the lame walk, and the
sick well; how he had fed the hungry, and
given the thirsty drink, and comforted the
poor; that he even, shortly before, had
taught all freely and powerfully in the tem-
ple. When they considered all this, they
thought that it would be unsuitable and un-
just, that so wise and good a man should be
condemned ; and so great a villain, a pest to
the citizens, should be released. Although
some asserted that he had not been accused
in vain by the council of the high-priests, those
who wished to have him released seemed to
have the majority, and this would certainly
have been done had not the common people
been overruled. For the l)igh-priests and
elders of the people, who had already con-
demned him, immediately opposed the mul-
titude when they heard them murmuring,
and said. Matt, xxvii. 28, "O, ye men of
Israel, be not in so great a hurry to cast your
votes, but wait until you have heard us ; re-
member that you are an unlearned and inex-
perienced people, who know nothing but
your trades : we are priests, to whom spiri-
tual things have been committed : we can
judge better what is to be done with this
344 THE WANDERING SOUL
Jesus than you. It has the appearance as if
he were pious and virtuous, but, indeed, he
is a blasphemer, one who makes himself
equal with God ; he is a Sabbath-breaker, a
despiser of the laws of Moses and the fore-
fathers. Barabbas, it is true, is a murderer,
which also is abominable, but he destroys
the body only—this one, by his delusions,
destroys the soul. O, how much worse is
he who destroys the soul for ever, than he
who deprives the body of temporal life ?
How much more is this one liable to die than
the other ? And if you think that such a fine
man should not be nailed to a cross, only
consider that it is better for us that one man
-die for the people, than that the whole nation
perish, which will certainly be the case if he
is continued in his power, and this by the
power of the Romans, for we are better in-
formed in these matters than any of you."
By such and similar advices, the multitude
seemed to change their views. Some cast
down their eyes as if they had taken it into
consideration ; others, who were zealous for
the law, began to talk of crucifying, and
they waited with anxiety for Pilate to ad
dress the people, who was now speaking to
one of his servants, who told him what his
wife had commanded him to tell him, to keep
clear of condemning this righteous person.
Matt, xxvii. 19. Pilate now depended on
the discretion of the people, hoping that they
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 345
would decide justly; and, therefore, he in-
quired whom of the two they would have
released? The inquiry was hardly made,
when they answered, " Release unto us Ba-
rabbas." Matt, xxvii. 21. Mark xv. 11. Luke
xxiii. 18. Pilate, astonished at that answer,
again inquired what he should do with
Jesus. They again cried out, ''
Crucify him."
Now when Pilate interfered and told them
that he had not deserved death, they com-
menced so great a cry in all directions, that
they could hardly be understood; for all who
stood there cried out, priests, clergy, citizens,
farmers, mechanics, and all the rest of the
people, began to rage, so that Pilate was at
last compelled to gratify their wishes. The
murderer w^as immediately loosed from his
bonds and set at liberty, but to their own
punishment; for he was afterwards a great
instrument among other robbers and mur-
derers, to destroy the country. Matt, xxvii.
26. Mark xv. 15. Luke xxiii. 24, 25.
W. S. O, what perverted minds ! But
what further happened to Jesus ?
S. C. Alas! no kind of cruelty was left
untried on him. It was customary with the
Romans first to scourge the one that was to
be crucified. He therefore was delivered into
the hands of the barbarous executioners,
who tied him to a stone pillar. Matt. ii. 27.
Mark xv. 16. John xix. 1. It grieves me to
346 THE WANDERING SOUL
relate, how pitifully they whipped him ; his
body was covered with stripes and wounds,
and the blood streamed from il. There
were a great many soldiers present, instiga
ting each other in acts of cruelty; they
derided and mocked Jesus, and to increase
his sufferings, they led him into the judg-
ment-hall, took off his clothes, and mocked
him; they put on him a purple garment,
and for a sceptre gave him a reed into his
hand. One gaped with his mouth open at
him ; another bent his knees before him ; a
third spit into his face ; a fourth, full of
wrath and spite, struck him in his blessed
face. Meanwhile others were eno;aored in
platting a crown of thorns ; when they had
pressed the crown upon his head, they were
not satisfied to have lacerated his holy head,
but took the reed out of his hand, and struck
with it on the crown of thorns, so that the
blood flowed and dropped down over his
clothes. All these sufferings he bore patient-
ly ; neither anger nor desire of revenge was
seen in him, nor any sign of bitterness ; but
his noble temper showed a mild, silent de-
portment, while Pilate observed and con-
sidered his innocence, and again undertook
to silence the raging of the people, and to
move them to compassion. But it would
have been easier to move stones.
W. S. Father, your tears show that at
WITH SIMON CLEOrHAS. 347
present your mind is confused by the con-
sideration of these sufferings; but pause a
moment.
S. C. He, therefore, had him brought with
all those painful decorations which the sol-
diers had put on him, and placed him before
the people, John xix. 4; so that all could
see him, and all eyes be witness of this piti-
ful spectacle. Here Jesus stood, with a
painful and mangled body, full of pain, and
dressed in an old purple robe, his counte-
nance covered with blood and spittle, a rough
stick in his hand, with the leaves of the
crown of thorns hanging about his head, and
the blood running down over his head. Pi-
late entreated them to pity the condition of
this man, but instead of that their anger and
cries increased. The high-priests even threat-
ened Pilate publicly with an impeachment
before the emperor, if he would not have
this man, who had made himself king, cruci-
fied. John xix. 12. Now, when the raging
of the multitude increased so greatly that
the judge had no hopes of succeeding in his
design ; still he could not conscientiously
pronounce the sentence. He asked the whole
multitude, whether they were willing to take
the sin upon themselves ? They, as if actu-
ated to hurry into future punishment, took
the sin upon themselves, and desired that his
blood should be required of them and their
children. Matt, xxvii. 24, 25.
348 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. That judgment which they them-
selves heaped upon their heads was dreadful.
S. C. O, son ! when all these things are
taken into consideration, it is not to be won-
dered at that the blood flowed there like
water ! The judge then went and washed
his hands before the people; and prepared
himself to pronounce sentence. O ! when
I recollect when he sat on the judgment-seat
in the marketplace, and Jesus standing before
him, surrounded with spears and pikes, and
a great multitude of people, it still moves me
to weep. It was at noon, the sun shone bright,
the high-priests gazed upon him and rejoiced,
the devout were full of grief, and turned pale,
so that their hearts trembled when they heard
the sentence pronounced ; for they still hoped
until the last, that he would be released.
No sooner was all this done, than they hur-
ried him to Golgotha, which you see yonder.
All were anxious to see the end of this drama;
some laughed, others wept. They showed
Jesus his cross, which he had to put on his
wounded shoulders, and carry it on the top
of the hill. Matt, xxvii. 31. Mark xv. 20.
John xvi. 17. O ! you may imagine how
painful he felt, not only on account of his
bruised body, which was bowed under the
weight of the heavy cross, but also on account
of the sufferings of his heart, because he saw
his mother and other dear friends mourn for
him. Some of the multitude comforted Je-
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 349
SUS, and wept bitterly when tiiey saw him fall
on his knees under the weight of the cross,
and had not Simon, of Cyrene, been com-
pelled by the soldiers to assist him, he could
not possibly have carried the burden. Matt,
xxvii. 32. Mark xv. 21. Luke xxiii. 26.
Everywhere they cried out that Jesus of Na-
zareth was to be crucified, and that they
would go and see whether he would be able
to deliver himself; or what other miracle-s
would be done. The wretched people never
once thought of the destruction of this city,
which was already before their doors, and be
fore their eyes. Lukexxviii. 27-31. Lastly, he
was brought to the place, which was strewed
over with dead bodies and bones.
W. S. ! what a heartrending sight this
was!
S. C. How much more was I pricked in
my heart. Even he who felt but a small de-
gree of love towards him could hardly look
upon all this ; for his hands were stretched
out, his feet suspended, the blood running
when the nails were driven through them,
the pains he suffered in erecting the cross,
the great patience with which he suffered all
this—how earnestly he prayed for them,
Luke xxiii. 34, when they crucified him,
although they offered him nothing but vine-
gar and gall in his great thirst. Matt, xxvii.
34. O ! should I relate all, my heart would
'burst with sadness, and this so much the
2G
350 THE WANDERING SOVt
more, when I consider how little they took it
to heart, even those who should have been
melted to tears.
W. S. What do I hear, father ! —^were they
not moved by this ?
S. C. It seemed as if every one studied
how to increase his sufferings ; the high-
priests, the Pharisees, the chief captain, the
soldiers, the common people; yea, even one
of the two who suffered death with him,
mocked, abased, and upbraided him. Matt,
xxvii. 39-44. Mark xv. 29-32. Luke xxiii.
35-39. Caiaphas was so bold and haughty
as if he was powerful enough to do any
thing. But afterwards, he and his whole
host learned dear whom they had mocked
;
for he saw the downfall of his glory, and the
destruction of his generation. O ! at that
time he might well remember Jesus, and
how shamefully he wagged his head at him,
as well as the rest of the people. Notwith-
standing, some were sore afraid when in the
bright mid-day it became so dark that they
could see the stars. Matt, xxvii. 44. Mark
XV. 33. Luke xxiii. 44. At that time the
sun was in Aries, and the moon in Libra, so
that a heathen philosopher called Dionysius,
who was well skilled in astronomy, saw this
eclipse even in Egypt, and declared, that
either the Godhead was suffering, or the end
of the world had come. When this unusual
eclipse of the sun appeared, the people who
ÄTITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 351
Stood about became struck with terror ; so
that one smote on his breast, another went
astonished towards the city, the third mourn-
ed on account of his misdeeds, and cried to
Jesus for pardon, who, in his mercy, opened
the door of paradise for him. Luke xxiii.
42, 43. But among all these, none were so
obstinate as the wise of the land : those who
ought to have shone as bright lights before
the common people, were themselves'blindei
than moles.
W. S. Father, it is strange that they did
not recognise him to be the true Messiah ; for
if I understand you rightly, there appeared
neither power nor ability in him, but he
hung on the cross between two malefactors.
He was forsaken, cursed, and despised. It
seems to me as if they were not altogether
mistaken. Yet I am willing to be instructed
hy you.
S. C. I, myself, would approve of their
conduct, had these things not been foretold
by the prophets, for there is no part in history
which had not been clearly described by
them. Zaccharias prophesied of his being
sold, and the price thereof, Zacch. xi. 12.
Isaiah of his scourging, mocking, and shame,
and also that he would be hanged between
two malefactors, and be an offence to every
one. Is. liii. David said that they would
give him vinegar and gall to drink, wag their
heads at him, cast lots for his garments,
352 THE WANDERING SOUL
wound his hands and feet, and extend his
body in such a manner that all his bones
might be counted. He speaks of his being
forsaken on the cross, Ps. xxii»and Ixix., and
many other things, which were all clearly
fulfilled, and which they could plainly see on
that day ;
yet they did not believe. Besides,
there are two things yet to be noticed, which
ought to have made them repent. First, the
signs, for as I have said, the sun was dark-
ened for three hours ; afterwards, when he
gave up his spirit, the earth quaked, the
rocks were rent, and also Mount Calvary
bursted in the midst, as you can still see ; the
tombs were opened, and the dead came forth;
the precious veil that hung at the entrance
of the temple made of red and azure-coloured
silk, which was twenty-five cubits in length
and sixteen wide, and held by two cheru-
bium, was rent in the middle, which had
never happened before. Matt, xxvii. 51-
53. Mark xv. 38, 39. Luke xxiii. 45-47.
These signs, which even moved and con-
vinced the heathens, should have occasioned
some reflections among the Jews. For I can
still see how pale and distressed the chief
captain cast his eyes on the earth, and how
he went away, mourning within himself,
when he saw all these things. Again, his in-
nocence, goodness, and righteousness ought
to have excused him, for there was no cause
of death to be found in him, as much as they
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 353
sought for it; still they condemned him, be-
cause they were full of malice and wicked-
ness. I still say, that when I consider how
miserable he hung extended on the cross, how
all his bones could be seen, how the blood
dropped from his hands, how the blood, flow-
ing from his feet, stained the cross with
blood; how the blood gushed out of his
pierced side, John xix. 34 ; how he bowed his
head, and was as pale as death, and how his
friends and acquaintances, when seeing all
this, cried and wept ;
—I am not at all asto-
nished that a city such as this has been de-
solated, and that the whole multitude, who
made themselves so busy in these things,
perished shamefully.
W. jS. Do you say so, father ?
S. C. Alas ! they all were punished. Ju-
das, in despair, went and hanged himself to
a tree, his entrails sent forth a foul stench, as
if they witnessed of his inward wickedness.
Matt, xxvii. 5. Acts i. 18. Pilate, the judge,
five years afterwards, was sent to France by
the emperor Caius, to live in misery, where
he committed suicide. Herod Antipas, who
had John beheaded, and assisted in increas-
ing the sufferings of Christ, shared the fate
with his adulterous Herodias, which I men-
tioned before ; they went about mourning in
France, where they died. Of Annas and
Caiaphas I have not much to say, for they also
received their reward. A great number of
2 G 2
354 THE WANDERING SOUL
the great priests and Jewish noblemen, some
of wiiom had given their consent to the death
of Christ, I have seen nailed to the cross bj
Floras the judge. I also saw how their wives
were killed, and their children stabbed before
their eyes : there were more than three thou-
sand altogether ; no tongue could express the
great misery. Floras was much accused for
his tyranny, as if he alone was the cause of
it ; but Divine vengeance did all this. It hap-
pened about thirty-two years after the cruci-
fixion of Christ, when I was seventy-eight
years of age, that I saw all these things. You
may well imagine that I was fully convinced
that it was the vengeance which this genera-
tion had merited; although they were blinded
and did not see it.
W. S. This is all very true, father ; but be-
fore you proceed with your narration, I wish
you to tell me what became of Jesus.
6^. C. When all his friends and acquaint-
ances had met and taken him down from the
cross, and saw how his wounds streamed
with blood, and remembered that he had to
suffer all this innocently, and what a comforter
they had lost in him. Matt, xxvii. 35. Mark
XV. 46. Luke xxiii. 49, and were inspired
with ardent love and compassion towards
him, they wept very much, and mourned
greatly, like those in ancient times did in the
tield of Megiddo,whenJosias, the pious king,
iiad been killed, and taken bleeding from the
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 355
wagon. It is impossible for me to tell how
sad their hearts were, so that they could not
cease weeping, for he was lamented as the
only beloved son of his mother, yet had they
thought that he would rise again from the
. dead on the third day, as it has happened,
they would not have been so much grieved.
W. S. Father, you speak of strange things
;
but, what ! do you say he rose again !
S. C. Yes ; he rose again from the dead
;
or what would have all availed ?
W. S. I am anxious to hear how that took
place.
S.C. O ! son, that is a circumstance of
great surprise and joy. But I will first re-
late to you how sad we were before this joy-
ful event took place. While Jesus lay in the
grave, it seemed as if all our joys had been
buried with him; our minds were grieved in
various ways, on the one hand by the loss of
his consoling and agreeable company, on the
other, by the remembrance of his cruel siif
ferings and ignominious death which he had
to suffer. More than all this, it appeared as
if all our zeal, trouble, labour, and all that we
had done on his account, such as leaving
friends, money, property, and honour, had
been in vain, and M^e would not be recom-
pensed, for Jesus was dead and laid into the
grave ; besides this, we also considered the
miserable end it would take with us. Judas
hung himself, Peter also seemed to be in
"356 THE WANDERING SOUL
despair on account of his mournful condi-
. tion ; we were full of grief, and fled shame-
fully, the women cried and wept so much
that they could have bathed themselves in
their tears. In short, we were as full of anx-
iety and fears, as a woman in travail. On the
contrary, in the city they rejoiced greatly, they
indulged in feasting, banqueting, singing,
playing, dancing, and all other kinds of vanity,
so that it seemed as if they sported with our
afflictions. Herod and Pilate rejoiced together,
became friends, and sent presents to one an-
other ; drank wine like water ; and as they
were the chiefofficers in the country, every one
was full of joy on their account. Caiaphas,
and all the high-priests, had never before
been so full of joy, for they rejoiced that Je-
sus had fallen into their hands, as they had
so often vainly attempted to take him. They
spoke scornfully of Jesus of Nazareth, and
said that now his audacity halbeen punished,
that now they well could see that he had been
a false prophet, who had no other design than
to raise an insurrection in the country. They
said that now they had no more to fear, and
that his disciples could practise no deception,
for the ground was well guarded. Matt, xxvii.
66. They often laughed and were pleased
that they had been so brave; and as there
were all kinds of people in the city, some
commenced to sing disgraceful and blasphe-
inous songs in derision of Jesus, as David
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 357
had prophesied. Ps. Ixix. 12, 13. We dared
not to show ourselves in the streets, for they
pointed their fingers at us and alDused us
everywhere, so that w^e w^ere much dejected.
Moreover, the high-priests threatened us with
death if we w^ould assemble, so that w^e were
compelled to assemble secretly ; so that on this
great festival day, on which all rejoiced, we
were mourning, weeping, and lamenting,
like orphans who had lost their father and
their comforter.
W. S. That was mournful ! But I long
to hear the end.
S. C. It will much astonish you when I
relate it. Early in the morning, before any
person w^as in the streets, some women arose,
Matt, xxviii. 1, and took some boxes with
ointment in order to embalm his l)ody and
preserve it from corrupting, Mark xvi. 1.
Luke xxiv. 1. John xx. 1, according to the
custom of that day among us, among the
Egyptians, and other nations. When they
came to the door of the sepulchre, which
had been hewn into a rock, they were much
afraid, for they saw^ that the stone wdiich had
been placed at the mouth of it, was taken
away, Mark xvi. 4. Luke xxiv. 2, and sup-
posed nothing else but that his body had
been stolen by the Pharisees. This asto-
nished them so much, that they knew not
what to do. One of them, called Mary
Magdalene, returned with a sorrowful and
358 THE WANDERING SOUL
sad heart, and told Peter and John, weeping,
of her distressed situation. The other women
went on and found the grave empty, and an
angel, in the form of a young man, dressed
in white, told them of the resurrection of
Jesus, and that they should tell it to the
apostles. John xx. 2. Matt, xxviii. 5, 6, 1,
Mark xvL 5, 6, 7. Luke xx. 3, 4. But that
was a strange tale to them. They also saw
the soldiers lying in their armour like dead
men, speechless, as if they had been struck
by lightning. This frightful sight made the
women so afraid, that they knew not how to
get away and hide themselves quick enough.
In the mean time Peter and John, who had
heard the message of the w^omen, came to
the grave, Luke xxiv. 11. John xx. 3-8,
and did not find the body, nor did they see
any vision, but only the linen clothes, so
they went away again and left Mary stand-
ing and w^eeping at the grave, who, when
she stooped down and looked into it, saw
two angels : afterward s she saw Jesus, and sup-
posed him to be the gardener, because by his
appearance he seemed to be none other. The
scene, however, was soon changed, for Jesus
made himselfknown, andtheheavenly joy her
heart felt at that time cannot be described.
John XX. 10-17. She fell down before him,
weeping, and adored him, because her life,
joy, comfort, and her all, depended alone on
his presence. With this joyful message, she
With siMon cleophas. 369
went to the eleven apostles, and to the others
that were present with them, and sighed and
wept for the loss of their good shepherd.
John XX. 18. In the mean time the rest of
the women took courage, and returned to
the grave, where two angels reproved them
for their unbelief, and again commanded
them to inform his disciples of his glorious
resurrection. When they went away re-
joicing, and with a full assurance that Jesus
was willing to make them as happy as Mary
Magdalene, he met them, and saluted them
in a friendly manner, which filled their
hearts anew with joy. Matt, xxviii. 8, 9, 10.
They came to the assembled company.
Luke xxiv. 9. Before Mary had finished
her conversation, these came and corrobo-
rated all she had seen and heard.
W. S. O what wonders ! But did they
all credit this report ?
S. C. O no, they looked at it merely as
dreams, tales, and vain talk; and especially
because two of the apostles themselves had
been there and did not see any of these vi-
sions. Mark xvi. 11. Luke xxiv. 11. Yet
the women spoke confidently of what Jesus
had spoken to them, of his person, of his de-
portment, and all ; and of the wonderful ap-
pearance of angels. But all this was of no
use, for they looked upon them as weak-
minded women, who could easily fancy such
things to themselves. Some seemed to be-
360 THE WANDERING SOUL
lieve it; others doubted; so that, although
we were somewhat comforted, still we were
in doubt, not knowing what to think of it.
W. S. How could a father suffer his for-
saken orphans to weep long ? How could a
bridegroom see his beloved languish, and not
comfort her ? How could a shepherd suffer
his flock to run scattered in the desert, in the
midst of wolves and other ravenous beasts,
without coming to rescue them ?
S. C. The sheep were bleating, but the
shepherd seemed not to hear them. The bride
sought her beloved with tears, but he concealed
himself The children wept bitterly, and ap-
peared to be forsaken of the father, because
they heard not his voice. But pay attention to
wondrous things. North of us is a desolate
hamletjCalledEmaus, Markvi. 12. Lukexxiv,
13-23 ; thither went my father in company
with others to his place of residence. There
the fields were beautifully green with grain
and grass, olive and fig trees lining the road
on either side : the birds were warbling, chirp-
mg and basking in the mid-day sun. But all
this did not comfort them ; their hearts were
heavy and full of sorrowing ; they seemed to
be in deep despair, and all their hopes were
blasted. They were reflecting on the pro-
mises made of the Messiah, who was to sit
on the throne of David, and rule the Gentiles,
and redeem Israel from the dominion of their
enemies; who was to be, like Solomon, a
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 361
peaceful king, and rule them with wis-
dom and in righteousness. They thought
that Jesus was to do all this : but, alas
!
their hopes were blasted. The Gentiles con-
quered him, and he was mocked by every
one, and shamefully nailed to the accursed
wood, quite differently from what they an-
ticipated. In addition to this, their minds
were also exceedingly perplexed on account
of what they heard from the women. When
their minds were thus perplexed, Jesus ap-
peared to them as an unknown Joseph, to
feed them with spiritual food. He appeared
to them a stranger—as one ignorant of all
that had taken place ; and they told him all
that had transpired. But he instructed them
that they looked too prematurely for this
kingdom ; that they had not taken the cross
into consideration, which, according to the
prediction of the prophets, was to precede
their anticipated joy. These words burned
within them. They were convinced that he
had spoken the truth; but they did not
know w^hence he had this knowledge. Their
hearts were most powerfully drawn to this
pilgrim. He appeared to them a wonder-
ful person ! The day drew to a close. It
was time to bid each other good night; but
this was impossible. They invited him to
tarry all night with them: ne was per-
suaded. Then there happened a greater won-
der still : the table was set, and instead of
2H
362 THE WANDERING SOUL
holding a long conversation, he lifted his
eyes to heaven in devotion, and then broke
the bread ; after this they immediately recog-
nised him whom they had with them ; and
as they were about falling on his neck to
kiss him, he vanished. Then they were as-
tonished, and sought for him in the house in
vain ; none of the domestics saw him, nei-
ther did they hear a door open, nor the foot-
steps of a man ; and then they thought on
what the women had told them, and were
exceedingly sorry that they did not believe
what they said ; for they had now seen him
themselves, and their hearts w^ere filled
with the burning rays of the power of his
words.
W. S. What did they afterwards do ?
S. C. They were as a hunter who is in
pursuit of his object, and is determined to
pursue, sparing no pains, till he has over-
taken what he was in pursuit of They then
went back the same way, and hastened
toward Jerusalem, and told us many things
—
told us when he would leave us—that he ap-
proached them as a father. Luke xxiv. BB-
S'S. Mark xvi. 18. O ! we fools, that we
did not know him ; had we only kissed him
when our hearts burned for love, he would
Eerhaps not have left us ; but who will resist
is divine power, who can compel him ? But
what are we doing at Jerusalem ? We may
Tolate our joys, but who will believe us?
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 363
Will they not think all we say are fables ?
What do we say more than the women did,
who are not altogether m- ithout some experi-
ence. Thus conversing together, they went
on their journey—the rising full moon afford-
ing them light to cross the mountain at Jeru-
salem—going on till they arrived at the house
where the other disciples were assembled.
They knocked at the door, and scarce had
they entered, till they were told how Jesus
had appeared unto Peter, 1 Cor. xv. 5, and
comforted, strengthened, and encouraged
him. Then my father Cleophas told what
had happened him and Amaon, which was
corroborated by the testimony of the women,
which agreed like a heavenly harmony. Not-
withstanding, there were some who did not
know what to think, wishing to experience it
for themselves, but the company was consi-
derably more comforted than before ; however,
they were not fully relieved from their per-
plexities.
W. S. This, however, is a wondrous his-
tory ; but did these doubting ones continue
much longer in this perplexed state of mind?
S. C. As I told you before, it was impossi-
ble for him to conceal his love ; but, like Jo-
seph, who could no longer refrain making
himself known to his brethren, and said, "I
am Joseph, your brother, come hither." Thus
did Jesus appear in the midst of his disci-
ples, and said, ''
Peace be with you !" Luke
364 THE WANDERING SOUL
xxiv. 36. John xx. 19. But fear seized their
hearts, as Joseph's brethren were seized with
fear ; for none had opened the door for him
to come in. But he stood in their midst, as
if surrounded by a cloud—he could make
himself invisible, or vanish in an instant.
When Jesus saw that they were much trou-
bled in mind, he convinced them by showing
the prints of the nails in his hands and feet,
and by eating in their presence, that he was
personally with them, and that it was not the
appearance of a ghost or spirit. O ! what
joy there was excited among the disciples,
when they had found the long sought for
treasure.
W. S. I feel rejoiced on their account.
But what did they do who were not present?
S. C. They were still doubting. But, like
a king of whom it is reported that he has
been slain, appearing in the midst of his
soldiers to comfort them, so also did Jesus
appear, and showed himself to doubting
Thomas. John xx. 26-29. He showed him
his wounds in his hands and feet—^his side,
which was pierced with.a spear. Afterwards
he showed himself to seven of his disciples
at the seashore," where they were engaged in
fishing ; and afterwards he showed himself
to five hundred brethren in Galilee, and
encouraged them. He exhorted, encouraged,
and comforted them—instructing them how
to conduct themselves, when he should be
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 365
taken away from ttiem, in preaching the gos-
pel, how to baptize, and to observe all things
;
he commanded them, to preach the gospel in
Judea after his resurrection and ascension.
John xxi. 1. 1 Cor. xv. 6. Matt, xxviii. 16-
20. Mark xvi. 15-18. Acts i. 3-8.
W. S. What do I hear ! Did he ascend to
heaven ?
S. C. O ! my son, that is the kingdom
which God had promised from eternity, for
he is eternal ; he was from eternity, he was
before the creation. Here, upon earth, there
are only earthly monarchies, which will
perish ; as I gave you to understand, that it
was not only the case with the kingdom of
Israel, but also with the Persian, Grecian,
and will finally be the case with the Roman
empire. For here there is nothing abiding or
permanent, because it is all earthly and
perishable. True, it may have the appear-
ance of being permanent, but finally it will
perish, as did the kingdom of Herod; and
finally the city of Jerusalem. In vain did
they foolishly wait for the restoration of
their temporal kingdom ; for God is not
pleased therewith, because he is a spiritual
king, and he will establish the spiritual king-
dom for ever, and govern it to the joy of the
believers, and thus fulfil all the prophecies,
shadows, and figures which were set forth in
the law and the prophets, and to establish a
better kingdom. But the whole is comprised
2ii2
366 THE WANDERING SOUL
in one point, it is accomplished in Christ,
who has now ascended into heaven. All
that you heard of Adam, Noah, or of the
other prophets, is now accomplished, and
hereafter we need not look for any thing
more.
W. S. These things are somewhat incom-
prehensible ; but in the mean time, permit
me to ask, why did not the Jews generally
receive this ?
S. C. Their own obstinacy is the princi-
pal cause ; for they intentionally fabricated
falsehoods, not only with a view to kill him,
but also in relation to his resurrection ; for
the guard unanimously asserted that the per-
son of Jesus was stolen from the grave while
they were fast asleep, and had been terrified
by the earthquake which had happened ; so
that had they only loved the truth, they
would have come to the light, but they de-
sired not the truth, and bribed the guard that
they should deceive the people with lying.
Matt, xxviii. 11-15. And thus they remained
obstinate, and persecuted the disciples of Je-
sus, as you will hear by-and-by, and upon
which this dreadful punishment succeeded.
W. S. Was this deception not brought to
the ears of Pilate, so that he might have
punished them ?
S. C. True, he was apprized of it; but
they bribed him also ; nevertheless, he wrote
a letter to the emperor Tiberius, at Rome,
WITH SIMON CLEOrHAS. 367
and informed him of the wonders and works
of Jesus, and what had happened him.
Whereupon the council resolved that he
(Christ) should be deified and numbered
among the gods ; for it was contrary to the
laws of Rome to deify any one without the
consent of the council. For thus it had
pleased God that his people were not to be
under the protection of the strong arm of the
law, so that his spiritual kingdom should
grow, increase, and flourish alone by his
power.
W. S. I understand this. Please to tell
me more of this ascension, for I am anxious
to hear of it.
S. C. He gave us a promise that we were
to be miraculously filled with the Holy
Ghost; and commanded us to remain to-
gether, and not depart from Jerusalem. Luke
xxiv. 49. Acts i. 4, 5. Afterwards he assem-
bled his disciples (as a shepherd would his
sheep), exhorting them to look for another
kingdom than the one they had hitherto
been expecting : that the promises of God
were not earthly, but heavenly ; and that he
had suffered to that end, and that he was now
only going on before to prepare for them a
heavenly mansion, which they should look
for throuorh much suffierinor and tribulation.
Then he led them out to that place, yonder,
called Bethany, Luke xxiv. 50 ; for there
some of his intimate friends resided, aq you
368 THE WANDERING SOUL
heard before ; there all his dear children
assembled—there thej wept most bitterly;
for they were no less attached to him than
Elias and Elijah were to each other ; but he
comforted them, and went to Mount Olives ;
they all followed him. At last he stood still,
lifted his hands, and blessed all of them, like
Moses blessed the twelve tribes of Israel,
and in the midst of these solemnities a cloud
descended and caught him up. With amaze-
ment we looked after him; our eyes were
fixed upon him ; our hearts seemed to follow
him, out of great love. Mark xvi. 19. Luke
xxiv. 51. Acts i. 9. Had it been possible for
us to ascend, we would have followed him,
but it was not possible. We still gazed after
him; and I do not know when we should
have desisted gazing after him, for our love
to him was so great ; weeping and wailing
would have continued long. But, behold,
there were two men, dressed in white stand-
ing beside us, who told us that we were
gazing in vain, that we might expect him
acrain to return ; but that he will come aorain
in power and glory, and therefore we had
much cause of rejoicing. Acts i. 10, 11.
W. S. This I understand. Now I am de-
sirous to know how this promise was fulfill-
ed, and what they accomplished.
S.C. O, my son ! it was a new era of re-
formation, or a new creation. The plants,
which were recently planted in the border«
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 369
of Judea, now grew to be sturdy trees, with
branches overshadowing the whole country.
The twelve apostles were here like the
twelve tribes of Israel, increasing to an innu-
merable seed, even as it had been prophesied
centuries beforehand. The order in which
this happened, I will tell you. At first we
went rejoicing from the mount to this city
;
remained together in one place; spoke of
the things we had seen ; we were in the
temple, or in the hall thereof, to attend to
divine worship, and there we sang and pray-
ed. Luke xxiv. 52, 53. Acts i. 12-14. O, the
sw^eet conversation w^e had ! Nothing could
be more agreeable to us then in our distress.
But our heavenly call buoyed us up. After
Judas had left us, and the number of us
being but eleven, we supplied his place by
cast] ng lots, and the lot fell upon a pious and
devout man of the house of David, called
Matthias, who w^as then to assist us in
spreading the gospel. Acts i. 15-26. After
remaining ten days here, engaged in our re-
ligious exercises, and it being the time when
the Jews held a great feast, called the feast
of the pentecost, when all the Jews had to
appear at Jerusalem to sacrifice, then there
happened a great wonder; for there was
heard the sound of a strong wind, yet not
violent; a hurricane, yet no destruction fol-
lowed; a great noise, yet not like that in the
time of Moses on Mount Sinai, when every
370 THE WANDERING SOUL
one fled ; an exceeding great storm, yet not
of destruction—^like that when the tower of
Babel was building, when one language was
divided into many, but where many languages
were made one, or united into one. The
Holy Ghost filled our hearts with unspeaka-
ble joy. He is one, yet he sat upon each, in-
diting in diiferent languages, with such a
perfect harmony as if it had been sweet mu-
sic, when all strike the same note. After
this astonishing heavenly music had enrap-
tured us, and many looked on with astonish-
ment, it was soon reported through all
the city ; some saying, " Come and see the
great wonders which have happened the
Galileans, for there these unlearned men
are standing, some of whom are fishermen,
and speak strange languages with so much
facility, and so perfectly, that if they were
natives of the respective countries. They
are exciting the people, showing them that
they are great sinners, and are declaring the
way of salvation." Many, therefore, assem-
bled who came from different countries.
Acts ii. 5-12. The crowd was so great that
they had scarce room to stand: then they
saw with what joy we were filled, and the
wonders we spake of. Some of whom, aa
well as we, w^ere transported with joy ; some
were astonished, not knowing what to think
of all this. But there were others, malicious
Jews, who reported that we were drunk,
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 371
Acts ii. 13 ; but Peter stood up in the midst
of them, and viewing the multitude, and
they looking at him, he commenced preach-
ing, and showed them that these were not
drunk, but that it w^as what had been pre-
dicted long beforehand—the gift of the Holy
Ghost which God had promised. He also
testified of and proved the resurrection of
Christ, and exhorted all to repent who were
guilty or had any part in crucifying Christ,
so that they might detain grace. This pierced
their hearts like a two-edged sword, and
prepared them as fruitful ground. Acts ii.
14-36. The penitent wept profusely, and
tremblingly inquired what to do ; and were
baptized on confession of their faith, even as
Jesus had commanded shortly before his as-
cension, and came out from among the Pha-
risees, and joined in with the believers, so
that their sins might be blotted out. Acts ii.
37-41. O, if you only had seen the excite-
ment ! how many were running to and fro,
crying and w^eeping, and afterwards filled
with joy unspeakable, because they passed
from death unto life ; and thus the number
of one hundred and twenty was soon in-
creased to three thousand.
W. S. What an astonishing increase in so
short a time
!
S. C. O, my son, the increase of the num-
ber was not so remarkable as the consequent
change which followed ; for this great num-
37^ THE WANDERING ÖOtlL
ber was as one man, Acts ii. 42 ; the three
thousand were of one mind, even so as bread
is baked of many thousand grains that one
cannot be known from the other ; or like a
great fire made by laying together many
sticks, so that the more sticks the greater
the fire, and would, in reality, be but one
fire. Thus were these hearts melted to-
gether by the fire of the Spirit, that they
were one heart, one soul, one will, one love,
one hope, one joy ! A work that God per-
formed—such a grand reformation among
the people. It appeared as though paradise
was again restored. The golden period ap-
peared to be ushered in ; all what Cain and
Nimrod had undone was again restored.
The lambs fed with the wolf; the youn^
child handled the serpent ; and the weaned
child put his hand into the mouth of the ba-
silisk ; there was neither contention, nor any
one to molest, on the mountain of the Lord.
W. S. It is difficult for me to understand
this ; will you please to explain it.
S. C. My son, it was Cain who first di-
vided the land into parcels, and invented
measure and weight, so that each said, "This
is mine, that is yours ; thus far you may
come and no further ; here my borders begin,
and there yours." After him arose Nimrod,
after the flood, and used violence to enforce
these things, and lorded over his fellow-men,
and subdued many ; and hence some artful
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 373
persons who were studying^ day and night
how much money they could hoard, and de-
clared by their laws, "This is mine ;" and
any one who would resist was threatened to be
stung with their poisonous barbs, or pierced
through with their deadly basilisk-eyes;
such a sight frightened the lambs, and they
were afraid to look at them. Others, like
voracious wolves and bears, showed their
murderous teeth, devoured the innocent
lambs, cows, and other domestic animals, or
made them to be subject in large numbers,
so that all things were theirs ; they had the
pastures, the wool, and the milk, and every
thing else, so that avarice seemed to be sanc-
tioned by law. Many evils grew therefrom,
such as contentions, envyings, hatred, mur-
der, and thus vexing the pious and innocent
who followed after the general love of God,
-the creator of all things, they were satisfied
with the common comforts of life.
W. S. I have understood your parable
;
but was this state of things changed, and did
d better state of things follow?
W. S. It was wholly changed; for as soon
as each felt the operations of the Spirit, so
soon were they free from this venomous
principle. The avaricious became liberal,
good hearted, free-givers; they distributed
their 'surplus moneys among the needy, that
they also might have to live upon ; they de-
stroyed their indentures by which the poor
21
374 THE WANDERING SOUL
were oppressively held ; were ashamed to
take usury, sold their possessions, and had all
things in common. Nay, they did not say
that those possessions were theirs, for they
knew that the poor stood more in need ot
them than they, whom they had so long op-
pressed. Here it was demonstrated that cha-
rity is the bond of perfection—charity that
is impartial, uniting all. Here this principle
was so all-prevailing, that legal process was
not resorted to. Court-houses w^ere little
frequented, and lawyers had no clients ; con-
sequently none to pay them fees. The inno-
cent ones had no occasion to fear these vipers
and adders, but came without fear to mingle
with them ; for they were deprived of their
venom ; they united as brothers and sisters.
Those who had been as cruel as wolves and
as fierce as lions, became as docile and
tame as lambs, and regretted it exceedingly,
that they suffered themselves to be bewitch-
ed by the sorcery of Circe. But it w^as
through the wisdom of God that this miracu-
lous change was wrought.
W. S. The poor must have been exceed-
mgly glad of this, who were formerly so much
oppressed of these avaricious persons.
S. C. They rejoiced as though they had
been released from a dismal dungeon and
placed into a royal palace. They assembled
nearly every evening. A table common to
all was prepared ; one came with his basket
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 375
of bread ; another with a basket of meat
;
another with a flask of wine, or some other
drink. Their language was, " Praise, bro-
thers, praise ye the Lord, who gives ns all
things bountifully. None shall want: be
not solicitous on account of your poverty
;
all that you need shall be given you freely."
And they spent their time in praising and
conversing of the Lord, and comforting each
other. Exercising in acts of devotion, their
hearts w^ere filled with joy—with the joys of
the Spirit of love, and hence these feasts
were called looe feasts.
W. S. O the paradise upon earth ! But
did not the wealthy regret to depart witli
their goods and possessions when they saw
how they diminished ; or did not the poor
become voluptuous and overbearing, as is
often the case when they see that the. rich
are humbled, and they share part of the
goods ; for many of the poor become very
impolite and profligate, when they get to rise
in the world ?
S. C. Touching the first. Because the
rich were enlightened of God, they did not
care for more than what was sufficient for
the common comforts of life ; therefore they
had no occasion to be solicitous about many
things. Besides that, they saw the hand of
God work powerfully in this communion, so
that evervwhere there was abundance ; and
376 THE WANDERING SOUL
because there were none idiej but all indus-
triously employed, they could, therefore,
readily conclude that the joint labour of
many, properly managed, would support a
greater number, than for a few to labour and
others to spend it : besides every thing was
brought under an economical management,
and many living together, there was a great
saving in that respect. But the most re-
markable was, that they dedicated them-
selves and their possessions unto the Lord,
whom they served, and who promised to
provide for them in all things necessary.
And they also bore in mind how Jesus, their
master, spoke against the riches of this world.
To be like him, they preferred being poor, as
being the more secure condition for them.
Respecting the poor becoming voluptuous
or proud, I have to reply that the whole-
some doctrines and the fear of God, of
w^hich they always conversed, both at their
feasts and in their meetings, kept them with-
in due bounds, so that nothing of the kind
was heard or seen, lest they would be ex-
cluded ; and they did delight to be in the
church—for the ungodly have no pleasure in
meeting with the pious. And there was
such a power of the Spirit among them, that
all these things were completely suppressed
;
so that the Holy Gliost formed them as of
one lum^, into one harmonious whole.
WITH SIMON CLEOPPAS. 377
W. S. How much depends upon good,
order, especially among much people, and
where God has the oversight.
S. C. Your observation is correct. It hap-
pened that a certain man and his wife* were
prevailed on to dispose of their possession
and to retain part of the money for their
own use. But they were punished with
death through the words of Peter. One of
them was scarcely carried away, when the
other came in, and also fell down dead ; and
great fear came upon all the believers, and
aapon as many as heard these things. Acts
T. 1-11.
W. 'S. O ! the wonders !
hS. C. Thus did God work mightily in this
church, whither they came flocking from
every direction ; so that the number of three
thousand was soon increased to five thousand,
Acts iv. 4. Not only were they the common
people, but among them «avere also the priests
who ministered in the temple, that bekeved
;
one saying to another, " Come, let us go to
ithe mountain of the Lord, ihe house of the
God of Jacob; for there they saw the glory
of the Lord, of which the prophets spake."'
The Pharisees w^ere confounded; for it so
happened that the lame began to walk, Acts
iii. 1-10, the blind were restored to their
•sight, the lepers were cleansed, all manner
,of disease was healed by calling alone on the
* Ananias and Sapphira his wife.
•2 I 2
378 THE WANDERING SOUL
na;ne of Jesus. Nay, some were healed by
bemg overshadowed of the apostles in pass-
ing by them, Acts v. 11-15, which caused
the multitudes both to wonder and praise
God ; for they saw the power of the Lord ;
and how innocently Jesus was crucified by
the instigations of the high-priests, which
caused no little disaffection among the com-
mon people. " The cripples and those who
were sick, are well known. Behold, that
man was- lame from his infancy, and was sit-
ting begging at the gate of the temple ; but
now he has thrown away his crutches, and is
now perfectly whole. This was done in the
name of Jesus of Nazareth, who travelled
through all the land, and did many such
signs and wonders. What do you think ? ou?
priests ha-d him crucified, and slew him as a
disturber of the peace." And the like conver-
sations were common among the people.
W. S, But how did the Pharisees behave I
S. C. They were inwardly enraged, and
resisted the apostles; commanded them not
to preach, although they were convinced
that the apostles preached the truth, yet they
threatened them severely, if they would not
desist preaching to the people. Acts iv. 40.
W. S. Were the apostles not deterred and
intimidated by these threatenings ?
S. C. By no means ; but they became more
zealous, and prayed more fervently, so that
the house shook by the power of the Spirit.
WITH SIÄION CLEOPHAS. 37§
Every heart was encouraged, and their
ardour to preach the gospel increased. They
performed signs and miracles—singing and
preaching of what they had heard and seen
—
they were determined not to withhold the
'
truth. When the high-priests perceived that
their mandates were not regarded, they were
enraged, collected the council, in order to
consult what to do to the apostles ; for that
purpose they sent their guards with missile
weapons, and took some of them and cast
them into prison. Acts v. 17-42. But on
the day following they all were astonished
and afraid, when it was told them that the
same men whom they had cast into prison
were in the temple teaching; for none knew
how they had gotten out of prison ; for the
doors were bolted, the watchmen were on
guard. Thus miraculously did God inter-
pose by an angel. Caiaphas sent for the
apostles, entreated and threatened them that
they should desist from preaching ; but all
was in vain ; for when they determined to
kill them, they were prevented by the inter-
ference of the wise men of the council.
Nevertheless, the apostles were stripped and
scourged; of this they rejoiced, because they
were counted worthy to suffer what their
Lord and master had suffered before them.
W. S. Were they so wicked as to treat
those pious men in such a cruel manner ?
JS. C. Alas ! had this been all, this would
380 THE WANDERING SOUL
liave been but little ; for shortly afterwards
they murdered Stephen, a devout and pious
man, dragged him out before the gate ; and
stoned him to death, although he kneeled
down and prayed that this sin might be for-
given them, Acts vii. 54-60. But his prayer
had no effect on them ; they raged, and stopped
their ears, and fell upjn him like a set of
bloodhounds, mangled his body ; and as he
was about expiring, he looked up steadfastly
into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and
Jesus standing on the right hand of God.
W. S. Alas ! it is very unpleasant to listen
to it. By this course of conduct, they made
Jerusalem guilty of the blood of the saints
:
a blind man might have inferred that the
vengeance of God would visit them.
S. C. They seemed not to mind all this;
for they were so accustomed to flatter each
other for their valour when any one was con-
demned to death for heresy, that this was
nothing uncommon. Hence it was, that Saul,
a sensible yoang man, born at Tarsus, and
educated at Jerusalem, took so much delight
in these cruel murders. Therefore did he, like
an infuriated lion, enter houses, dragged out
men, women, and children, and drove them,
as a flock of sheep, into prison, and witnessed
daily how they were bound and fettered ; for
here you would see one taken from his loom,
there another from his anvil. In short, the
Christians knew not w^hither to flee forxefuge;
WITH SIMOX CLEOniAS. 381
many of them followed the advice of their
master, and fled into the neighbouring cities.
It appeared as though the whole church
would be extirpated, which had just been
blossoming.
W. S. It is astonishing that not every
thing perished ; for how can a flock of sheep
live in the midst of a den of wolves ? they
must necessarily be torn at last, where there
is none to defend them, as I hear there was
not to defend these.
iS. C. It is true, my son ; there was none
to protect them ; neither shield nor pike was
raised in their defence ; only fervent prayer
was resorted to in obedience to what Jesus
h?.d commanded them.
W. S. I repeat it, it is astonishing that
your religion did not perish, and vanish
away.
S. C. Son, you ought to know if God
plants, none can root up. God fought so mi-
raculously against these enemies, that he
turned their shafts into their own faces ; for
all these persecutions were subservient to
the promulgation of the gospel; yea, faith
will orrow and increase under the cross : to suf-
fer persecution here directs the heart heaven-
ward—the affections are placed on heavenly
things. Were I to tell you all the wonders
which took place about that time, time would
fail me.
382 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. I entreat you to tell me some of
them, for I am anxious to hear them.
S. C. The believers took their all, and fled
into other cities, and related what they had
seen and heard. There is a city north of us,
situated upon a pleasant mountain, in the
midst of a good country ; this city was for-
merly called Samaria, but now Sebastian
;
it is more than thirty miles from this, it was
a populous city ; thither went Philip, a devout
disciple and follower of Jesus. Acts viii. 5.
When he saw how the citizens were deceived
by a sorcerer, called Simon, he began to do
signs and w^onders, not in flying into the air,
to imitate Dedalus, but to raise- up grateful
liearts—to awaken the tuneful praises of
cripples, lame, and blind. The one left his
trade, the other his store, to see the wonders
that were done ; for the cripple carried his
crutches upon his shoulder, the blind had no
need of a guide, the lame leaped for joy, the
deaf scarce knew where he was, because he
could now discern every thing by the sense
of hearing ; those who were possessed of
devils were no longer chained, the whole
city was filled with joy and rejoicing. Every
one was for uniting with Philip, seeing that
Simon's sorcery was all pretence; and there
was such a pressing to hear him preach, that
it appeared all the city would receive the gos-
pel. The devoutness of those, of both men
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 383
and women, who were baptized, was unspeak-
ably great.
W. S. The news of this must have been
glad tidings to those who were at Jerusalem
in distress, to hear that all the countries
around them had received the gospel.
S.C. This is not all, my son; for God
wrought wonders through the angels. A
great distance north of us is the city Gaza
:
there passes by an old road down to Egypt,
on the side of which ancient remains of
walls and cities are to be seen. In former
days the Philistines had possession of that
country, who led wars against the kings of
Israel ; and afterwards this country was laid
waste by the rude hands of the Idumeans.
On this road there was a eunuch travelling
in a splendid coach, who was from Ethiopia,
and had come to Jerusalem to worship ; and
as he was returning home, he read the book
of Isaiah on his way ; and being troubled in
his mind concerning his soul's salvation, Phi-
lip was directed by an angel to hasten hither ;
and immediately he joined himself to the
eunuch. Their hearts were attached to one
another ; it appears each knew the other's
thoughts ; their conversation was not con-
cerning the wind, the weather, war and com^
motions, or other occurrences of the day; but
they conversed of that which is necessary to
salvation. In passing on they came to a beau-
tiful stream, the chariot was stopped, both
384 THE WANDERING SOUL
descended, and tlie weeping Moor was bap-
tized in the water, and washed of an evil con-
science ; he whose skin was black, was, not-
withstanding, w^ ashed clean, and clothed
with the white garment of righteonsnes. He
was filled with joy and astonishment, and the
more so, because he did not any longer see
his teacher ; for the Spirit of the Lord caught
away Philip.
W. S. These are astonishing wonders
v/hich you are relating !
S. C. I am going to tell you a wonder
nearly like it. There is another city still
further north, which formerly belonged to
Csesar Augustus, hence it w^as called Coesa-
rea, and there is another town nine miles
north of Csesarea, called Jcppa, on the sea-
shore. There, at a certain time, two persons
became intimately acquainted : wdiat had be-
fallen the one w^as disclosed to the other;
the magnetic powers of love moved one
towards another, and this was done through
the agency of an angel. There were to be
seen the gospel heralds upon the walls of
Zion—there the hearts were moved by the
gentle southern breezes of the gospel—there
every thing w^as green, like the full verdure
of May : the flowers a,ppeared upon earth,
the time of the singing was come, and the
voice of the turtle was heard in our land ; the
fig-tree put forth her green figs, and the vine
budded, and the pomegranate blossomed ; the
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 385
swords were beaten into ploughshares, and
the spears were made into pruning hooks : a
weaponless fisherman had more power to
pierce the heart w^ith the truth of the gospel,
than those with their missile weapons.
Weeping crowds of persons, desirous to hear
the gospel, were in attendance. It was a glo-
rious wonder to see them full of heavenl}'
new wine. Afterwards they were baptized;
watered like the trees in a humid place ; they
were all collected for one purpose; and what
shall I say, my son ? The cow and the bear
did feed together, their young ones lay down
together, the lion did eat straw like an ox;
nay, one might say that hills and dales were
united by the sweet sounds of the gospel.
W. S. What a remarkable change in na-
ture ! But did not persecution become more
violent, as the gospel was spread ? Did
you not tell me of a young man so enraged,
that he ransac]<;ed houses to apprehend the
Christians ?—did he not increase the number
of his satellites, and encourage them to go on
with increased rigidness ?
S. C. God directed this in a wonderful
way ! Saul, whom I mentioned to you, was
arrested in his mad career, and his heart was
changed ; for while engaged, busily engaged,
in arresting the Christians to bring them down
here from other cities and towns, and stand-
ing ready with his sword at his side, and
having letters to go to Damascus, and there
2K
386 THE WANDERING SOUL
to apprehend all the believers. Acts ix. 1-19.
Alas, he met with something unexpected!
He was prostrated by the heavenly king.
He penetrated him inwards by the rays of his
power; his conscience was roused up, his
hands trembled, his knees smote together,
his shield and pil^es fell, his satellites were
amazed, and did not know the cause of it.
One looked upon another; the atmosphere
appeared as all on fire; their horses were
frightened, and ran off, as though they had
been wild ; and the prostrated young man
was lifted up and taken to Damascus, but
with quite a different account than what he
expected to bring down. He entreated those
for mercy whom he formerly persecuted, and
of those whom he esteemed blind, he received
his sight again. And after three days' afflic-
tion he arose and preached the heavenly
mandates, to the astonishment of all present,
for many thought he w^ould show them chains
and cords to bind the Christians with. They
were astonished to see the wolf changed into
a lamb. The high-priests, who were think-
ing he would bring many bound, were in-
formed by the satellites what had befallen
them on the way to Damascus. The per-
plexity this occasioned them, my son, you
may readily imagine ; the council was very
sorrowful ; Caiaphas w^as dejected ; for they
knew how valorous and active Saul was in
wJhatever he took a part.
(Conversion of Saul,—pag, 386.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 387
W. S. O, what a great discomfiture of the
Pharisees and the high -priests ! But I per-
ceive from your discourse, that the beUevers
had peace in all the cities—had they not ?
S. C. O ! they sang, they spake and min-
istered in the word of God. Their meetings
were as the precious ointment of Aaron, full
of sweet savour : the joy they had was not to
be expressed. From the mountains flowed
sweet wine, and from the hills milk, and all
the brooks were filled with water
!
W. S. Saul, of whom you spoke—was
there nothing remarkable concerning him?
Was he not a distinguished instrument in
the hands of God, to spread the gospel, even
as he attempted to suppress it? And had he
not to experience some remarkable things,
and was he not sorely persecuted ? For it
is rational to suppose that much is to be re-
lated of so distinguished a person.
S. C. So man}' remarkable things befell
him, to relate all would of themselves make
a long narration. However, for your edifi-
cation, I will summarily tell you some of the
leading facts, so that you may form some
idea of what kind of man he was. Immedi-
ately after his conversion he w^ent into Arabia,
Gal. i. 17, and afterwards to Damascus again
;
thence to Jerusalem preaching Christ every-
where, and in the mean time suffered much
persecution, and was let dow^n over the wall
in a basket, Acts ix. 25. 2 Cor. xi. 32, 33
;
388 THE WANDERING SOUL
and he was vigilantly pursued, and his life
was attempted, and he had to flee into the
desert, and at last took sliip on the boisterous
sea, oft in jeopardy and great danger to lose
his life—his whole life was a life of danger.
And after he had come to Jerusalem, and
saw how the Jews were filled with envy and
rage at him, he departed and went to his
native town. Tarsus, in Cicilia, with a view
of remaining there for a short time ; but a
God-fearing brother, named Barnabas, could
not see that so brioht a lioht should be hid :
he therefore went to Tarsus, and sought for
Paul, and brought him to Antioch. Acts xi.
25-27. At that place there was a school,
where the spirit of prophecy showed itself.
There were Saul, now called Paul, Barna-
bas, Lucius, Niger, and Manaen; there
Christian theology was assiduously studied,
many souls were gained, and the disciples
first called Christians. Thence, as a com-
mon centre, they spread abroad. Paul then
sailed to Cyprus, and travelled through Pam-
phylia, Pisidia, Iconium, Lystra, and Derbe,
and many other places, at some of which he
was received gladly and courteously, and at
others he was not. He was stoned and de-
rided on account of the Jews, who were very
much enraged at him ; they were his princi-
pal persecutors. Alas ! it is not to be ex-
pressed what this apostle suffered; but he
was always of a good cheer—strengthening
WITH SIMON CLEOrilAS. S&9
the churches everywhere; and in the coun-
cil held at Jerusalem, in the tenth year of
Claudius, he showed that he was none of the
least of the apostles. Acts xv. 6. Afterwards
he travelled to Galatia, through Phrygia,
Bithynia, Macedonia, Thessalonica, Acts xvi.,
and altimately to Athens, wdiere there was a
school of philosophers—the Stoics, Epicu-
reans, Peripatetics, who Avere astonished, for
they were not accustomed to the bright rays
of wisdom, which shone before them in the
person of Paul. Acts xvii. The Corinthians
were made to feel his wisdom ; for their
wise men v/ere made fools. Acts xviii. The
Ephesians would rather that he had not
come unto them, for their Diana was being
brought low. Acts xix. All Greece was in
commotion on account of the miracles and
doctrines of this valiant hero. The Jews
dared not resist, for everywhere did he
spread the fire of the gospel. In Italy,
Spain, Dalmatia, lUyricum, yea, in tlie bor-
ders of Germany—all knew wonders to re-
late of him. The churches he established,
the multitudes he converted, the miracles he
performed, are innumerably many. For
devils were dispersed, Acts xvi., the dead
were raised, chap, xx., the cripples made to
walk, chap, xiv., -sorcerers banished, chap,
xiii., fetters and chains broken asunder in
prison—men came trembling before him, full
lof fear, not knowing whether he was a god
2 K 2
390 THE WANDERING SOUL
or a man, on account of the wonders he did.
Acts xvi. 25. Time would fail, were I to
tell you of his companions, Barnabas, Timo-
thy, Titus, Silas, Apollo, Luke, Epaphras,
Aristarchus, Clemens, Tychicus, Epaphro-
ditus, Aquila, Priscilla, and many others. I
rejoice to think of their love and union, of
their piety and godliness. O, how many
nights they spent in conversation, prayer,
exhortation, and in contemplating their hopes
of everlasting salvation; nothing temporal
would interfere. The lusts and pleasures of
this world did not lead them away from con-
templating the inward comforts of their
souls. Paul was often constrained through
love to remain : kissing and weeping were pro-
fuse, when he was about leaving them. If
you want a further account hereof, read his
letters which he wrote on several occasions
about that time. Those letters we read very
attentively in all our meetings; they are
living testimonies of his doings, and of his
active mind. Besides these, there are other
memorials of his greatness. The island Me-
lita ought to be a witness of the power of his
miracles; for when, on a certain occasion,
having suffered shipwreck, he came on that
island, and there he shook a viper into the
fire, which had laid hold of his hand, with
out suffering any harm from it; and thus
did he deprive, not only the viper, but all
kind of serpents, of their venom or poison in
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 391
that island, as may be seen to this day, that
persons handle serpents there without danger.
Acts xxviii. 1-6.
W. S. These are not testimonies of little
importance, to show the excellency of this
man : and we are astonished at his zeal and
activity in the Christian cause
!
S. C. During thirty-six years of his apos-
tleship, he travelled more than three thousand
miles—oft by water, and oft on land ; but he
preferred to travel on land : first, to visit his
good friends; secondly, to enjoy his liberty
the more ; for in a ship one is very frequent
ly obliged to put up v/ith great inconve-
niences—have to hear all manner of vain
talk : here comes one, there another with an
idle story, which is no small hindrance to a
devout person, who would rather place his
thoughts upon God ; therefore it is preferable
to travel on land—much more agreeable for
him who has his mind engaged in spiritual
things, for he will have an opportunity to see
the Avorks of the Lord; here the fruitful
fields, there the green trees—at one place a
high mountain, at another a deep valley ; for
if we meditate upon these things, we have
much reason to praise the Creator. One
may learn a lesson everywhere from His
works—from the universal book of creation,
the heart may be kept unencumbered and
free.
392 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S, T -agree with you in that. Let us
again talk of the Jews. How did they further
behave themselves towards the Cliristians?
S. C. Not otherwise than as tyrants ; for
the same reasons that they opposed Paul, did
they also instigate the magistrates of the
land to oppose and persecute them. For they
excited King Herod Agrippa that he appre-
hended James the Great, and sentenced him
to death. Acts xii. 2. And although he
showed such an intrepidity and constancy of
mxind, that his accuser was struck with admi-
ration, and became a convert to Christianity,
yet he had to kneel down, and was executed
with the sword; and by the shedding of his
blood show wdiat judgment was pending over
Jerusalem ; which the said Agrippa could
not but be sensible of when his living carcass
was devoured of worms at Cessarea. Acts xii.
23. It was something remarkable, for when
the king seem.ed to be in the midst of his
glory, there was heard in the court a great
cry and weeping. Every one commiserated
with the king, but none could relieve him; the
doctors were confounded—nobles wept at his
bedside ! Whomthey shortly before honoured
as a god, lay as a worm writhing ; all the me-
dicine he took had not its desired effect ; they
knew not what to think of the disease; his
whole body was alive. And thas he suffered
excruciatingly for five days, w^as eaten of
WITH SIMON CLEOniAS. 393
worms, and gave up the gliost, even as one of
the German prisoners at Rome had prophe-
sied to him beforehand.
W. S. These were signs which the Jews
ought to have laid to heart, and have re-
pented.
S. C. Alas! why should they repent?
There was another wonder happened in the
reign of Agrippa. For when Peter was cast
into prison he thought of beheading him, as
he did James, Acts xii. but in vain : they
went to bring him out of prison ; true, they
found the doors bolted and the w^atch before
them, but there was no Peter within. The
chains were lying on the Hoor ; they were
alarmed at this, for the watchmen knew not
how this happened ; they neither heard nor
saw any tiling; notwithstanding, Peter, by
the assistance of an angel, had made his es-
cape. It appeared as if he had vanished from
prison ; or that the watchmen had been
bribed, for it was done so secretly and quickly.
It was generally reported among the people
how miraculously Peter escaped. And thus
the bigoted Pharisees were the more enraged
at the apostles of the Lord, when they heard
this.
W. S. And how did the apostles fare ? They
did not all remain at Jerusalem, did they ?
S. C. No ; for they were obedient to him
who said, "Preach the gospel to every crea-
ture." Therefore, as soon as Paul had tra-
394 THE WANDERING SOUL
veiled to the west, Matthew went to the
south, into Ethiopia ; Bartholomev/ went to
the east, into India; Thomas in Parthia;
Andrew to the north, into the cold regions of
Scythia ; John into the populous country of
Asia : and the others likewise went abroad,
and thus they were scattered throughout the
greater part of the then known world, to sow
the prolific seed of the gospel, confirming
their preaching by signs and wonders. And
inasmuch as through their preaching the idols
of many were brought into disrepute, they
had to suffer severe persecutions, as the Lord
had told them beforehand.
W. S. One should suppose that they would
have soon been exterminated through perse-
cutions. Was their doctrine received by
strange or foreign nations ?
S. C. Yes, indeed; their doctrine made
more progress than any other that was ever
preached ; so that it was amazing to see how
it could be preached with so much power and
energy by such weak men. For neither the
books of the philosophers for four hundred
years, nor the law of Moses for fifteen hun-
dred years, did effect such an extensive revo-
lution in the minds of the people, as the
apostles did, in the short space of forty years,
amidst all their violent persecution. For
where are Lycurgus, Solon, Pythagoras,
Aristotle, and Plato ? When were the Sto-
'cs or the Epicureans persecuted as were
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 395
the apostles ? They were everywhere well
received, protected, fostered, and honoured
of their disciples. Likewise, the Jews had
among them the sceptre and the crown for a
long time—they conquered their enemies,
and slew many with the sw^ord, and used
yiolence wherever they could. But, behold
Jesus nailed to the cross ; behold his apostles,
one is beheaded, another crucified, another
stoned to death, stabbed, or killed with a club.
Behold, all them who preached the gospel
were as pilgrims, persecuted as the offscour-
ings of the earth, and notwithstanding, this
heavenly doctrine was preached and promul-
gated in the three quarters of the globe
—
Asia, Europe, and Africa. Hence you may
infer that their doctrine was by far more
excellent than that of the philosophers. But
not to digress from our point, amidst all these
persecutions, I cannot forget Jerusalem, a
den of thieves, exceeding every thing of the
kind in enormity. Something monstrous has
occurred to me, which I will relate to you.
W. S. Father, it appears to me, you are
weeping.
S. CO! the death of that righteous man,
who was esteemed by every one—James the
Less, my predecessor in this city.
W. S. What happened him ?
S. C. The envious Sadducees, the chief
of them was Ananias the high-priest, took
tills pious man and set him on the pinnacle
396 THE WANDERING SOUL
of the temple, thrust him down; his devout
prayers did not affect their hearts, for they
were void of the fear of God. Therefore,
after having stoned him severely, so that his
blood drenched the earth, a fuller came up
with his club and knocked out his brains;
and he gave up the ghost, as a testimony of
the awaiting judgment upon Jerusalem. All
who saw this scene cried out; the common
people wept for him, and accused the wicked
high-priests before the ruler. Many were of
the opinion that it was on account of the
cruel death of this man, that Jerusalem suf-
fered this desolation. But I am of opinion
that it was because they crucified the Lord
Jesus, and that it was for His blood's sake.
I could tell you many similar instances, but
as the sun is approaching the horizon, and
night will soon be at hand, we will for the
present defer it—it is time that v/e retire.
W. S. I will not fatigue you beyond what
you can bear ; but will willingly wait till to-
morrow.
S. C. My son, reflect well upon what you
have been told—who that king is that was
promised through the prophets—his birth,
life, death, resurrection, and ascension, all of
which I related to you circumstantially.
W. S. Yes, indeed, you gave me a fine
history.
iS. C. From which you may see what kind
of a person he was, who was so shamefully
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 397
murdered in this city, and that the punish-
ment which this city incurred must be great,
if there was even no other cause.
W. S. It is by no means a wonder that
this city was so oft a scene of carnage.
S. C. Yes, that the city is now a heap of
ruins, the relation of which will be no less
astonishing to you than what you have heard.
But let us now depart. I should be much
pleased with your company at my house.
W. S. How can I refuse, because on my
account you take so much pains, that you do
not even spare your aged limbs, to give me
an account of all these things. But how dif-
ficult it is to get along here, on account of
the stones, thistles, and thorns.
S. C. Formerly, there were stone steps
here to go up and down ; but now they are
all broken. There, at that stone wall, was
the royal court of David, called Millo. There,
on that mountain, the tyrant Antioch built a
strong fort—there you can see some of the
ruins of the tower of Ophel ; and there, before
us, are a few of the remains of the fortifica-
tion of Antonius ; and also a few relics of the
temple. Besides the court of Helen, there is
the chancery, and the court-house where the
unrighteous sentence was uttered against Je-
sus. But, behold, how it lies in ruins ; and
what does all their weeping and lamentation
avail ? Ah ! they would fain wish they had
then wept, and not have accused Jesus. You
2L
398 THE WANDERING SOUL
can also see three towers west of us, called
Hypicus, Phaselis, and Mariamne : there
was the court of Herod, where not a little
pride and voluptuousness were practised. It
was a splendid palace, but now it is the
hiding place for ravens, cranes, owls, and
bats. Alas ! how all things perish ! Here
is my cottage, where I reside.
W. S. This is like the cottages of the an-
cestors, who were pilgrims upon earth.
S. C. That is true. I live of my garden .
I have in it all kinds of vegetables.
W. S. Father, I see that you are content
with little ; farewell ! By to-morrow, if the
Lord will, I will return again. I must now
retire to meditate upon these things in some
solitary place.
DIALOGUE VL
[the fourth part of this dialogue, giving an account of
the dreadful destruction of jerusalem, and of jüdea,
and the state of the christian church till the year
a.d. 109, comprising a period of seventy years.]
Wandering Soul There are everywhere
«o many mounds and molehills here, as if a
whole army were buried here. If it be
agreeable to the old father, will you please to
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 399
give me some account of these. Here I come
before his door, but it appears there is an
agreeable sound within doors, and not to
molest him, I will go to our former elevated
place. Behold, what broken walls are all
around us. This must formerly have been a
glorious and populous country, this we can
see at the remains thereof; for as far as we
can see, there are to be seen broken towers,
houses, and villas ; and if the trees were not
intercepting we could see much, and many
more ; and if I am not deceived, I think I
see far east of us, blue water. I should not
suppose that all that is inundated land. I
wish that the old man would come; he would
give me an account of all those things ; tor I
am very anxious to know all about them.
There he is coming, leaning upon his staff;
to be such an old man, he is yet quite sensi-
ble ; he hears and sees well ; he is quite an
eloquent man, his conversation is interesting
to listen to. You are welcome, father ; the
Lord be your comforter.
S. C. I thank you, my son, for the saluta-
tion. Had you no desire ?
W. S. Not a little, yet as I thought, in
passing your house, that you were engaged
in a good work, and were not mispending
your time, I came on.
S. C. My son, it is customary with us to
assemble frequently in the morning, to praise
40^6 THE WANDERING SOUL
the Lord, to pray with ^ach other, to exhort
each other to remain steadfast in the faith,
and to keep ourselves unspotted of the world,
\vaiting for the appearance of our Saviour,
Jesus Christ, who will come again even as
we saw him ascend ; and we strive to that
end, that we may be prepared, by a holy
Avalk and conversation, and especially in
these times, because we are not secure one
hour; for since Trajan* has reigned, we
hear of nothing else than of killing, hanging,
strangling, crucifying, beheading, burning,
and all manner of torments are inflicted upon
the pious, and for no other cause than that
because we preach the resurrection of Christ,
and renounce and denounce the dumb idols.
On that account we are always in fear of
being apprehended and crucified, as was our
Lord, or to be murdered in some other way
;
therefore we have much cause to prepare
ourselves for the event daily.
W. S. "What a great reason this is to live
as strangers in this world; but it is also a
* Trajan wrote to Jerusalem, and gave orders to exterminate the
.<ttock of Da\id; in consequence of which, all that could be found
of that race were put to death. By his order, Phocas, bishop of
Pontus, was cast into a hot lime-kiln. He also commanded the
martyrdom of Ignatius, who, it is said, was the person, when an
infant, Christ took into his arms and showed him to his disciples,
as one that would be a pattern of humility and innocence. He
also commanded that Symphorosa, a widow, and her seven sons,
should be sacrificed to heathen deities. Trajan died, A. D. 117,
after having carried on a persecution against the Christians with
great violence for several years.
—
Trans.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 401
shameful tyranny on the part of the govern-
ment.
»S. C. The government or chief magistrate
is sometimes little to blame. The emperor
Trajan was atherwise a good man ; but he
was seduced of his priests, like Pilate was of
Caiaphas and his associates. And because
this city was the cause of the shedding of
the innocent blood, she was suddenly visited
with judgments—as sudden as the coming of
iio^htnins^.*^
W. S. Father, before you progress further
with this history, be pleased to tell me, in
the first place, what water is that far south
of us ; it appeared when the sun was rising
to be as red as blood, caused by the reflec-
tion of the rays of the sun. Is it inundated
land, being overflowed by the breaking down
of dams during wars?
»S. C. That water,t my son, might have
served this city as a warning and a dread-
ful beacon of their destruction, if they only
would have regarded it. Formerly it was a
pleasant and fertile country, abounding with
all manner of fruit trees, meadows, grain
fields, vineyards, and everj thing else that
the eye could wish to see—also handsomely
• The destruction of the Jews was sudden. In a very short time
not less than eleven hundred thousand perished. See Josephiis, de
Bell, Ind. Ub. 6, c. 9, § ^.—Trans.
•j" Dead Sea, Sea of Sodom, Salt Sea, or Lake of Asphaltitcs, salt
iake, is the water alluded to. It is seventy miles long, and ten or
fifleen hroad.
—
Ti'ans.
2l^
402 THE WANDERING SOUL
built towns; for thBre were formerly five
cities there, filled with jovial citizens, who
did not know what to do on account of their
wealth and grandeur, which caused them to
be wanton, dissolute, proud, unchaste, avari-
cious, grinding the poor without mercy for
their poverty. It appeared to be the most
happy country in the world : but alas ! un-
expectedly a sore judgment was sent upon
them.
W. S. What judgment ?
S. C. In one of those cities there lived a
very pious man called Lot ; he was Abra-
ham's brother's son. It was in the days of
Abraham. He wept daily on account of
their dancing, swearing, eating and drink-
ing to excess, and many other evil deeds of
the inhabitants, all of which he was obliged
daily to see. He often attempted to instruct
them, but they esteemed him as one that was
of a gloomy mind—a fool. At a certain
time two angels, in the form of men, came
unto him. Gen. xix. 1-13, whom he kindly
received; but when they saw the wicked-
ness of the city, they published unto the citi-
zens the pending judgment, telling them
that it was high time to leave the city, for
God was about destroying it. But when
Lot had admonished his friends, his brothers-
in-law and relations, they only laughed at
him. Gen. xix. 14 ; for they said, it is impos-
sible, because this man only commenced
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 403
yesterday building a house ; that one has
commenced sowing his fields, and is expect-
ing a rich harvest next year ; and in another
house there is a wedding ; here the lords of
the land have met to adjust temporal mat-
^ters; another is engaged at his trade, one is
'spinning; there they are engaged in mer-
cantile business, for the business never af-
forded a greater profit than it does this year
;
the merchant-house is crowded with people
;
the inns are filled to overflowing with guests.
Every one is merry; there is neither war nor
disturbance in the land ; all are living in the
enjoyment of peace and plenty. Whence
should this destruction come ? It is all a tale
that is in your head. And the pious man
'
left them with a sorrowful heart. After-
wards he was commanded of the angels,
Gen. xix. 13-23, to go out of the city and
the country, with his wife and two daughters,
to travel on without looking back, that they
might escape with their lives. Scarce had
they left the city, when the atmosphere was
filled with fire. It began to thunder and to
lighten, and the vivid flashes of lightning set
all on fire. Then weeping and wailing com-
menced in the city. They looked upon each
other with horror ; for they saw their costly
houses burn over their heads, their drawings
and pictures in their parlours defaced, their
money was melted into bullion. Whether
they went into or out of their houses, nothing
4r04 THE WANDERING SOUL
but weeping and lamentation was heard.
If they stretched their hands heavenward,
they were immediately burned ; they could
not screen themselves from the intense heat
Their grain and fruit were burnt in the
fields ; the trees not only shed their leaves,
but their limbs also; the pools and rivers
seemed as though they were changed into
brimstone and pitch—like a crucible in which
a mixture of every thing is melted. Thus
were men, animals, creatures of every kind,
herbs, metal, stone, buildings and every thing
of the kind, changed into a pool of fire, so
that nothing could be discovered but the as-
cending smoke in thick curling columns,
like the smoke of a furnace in which metal
is melted ; and thus their joy and pleasure
were changed into a sorrowful tragedy!
Lot's wife did not fare well either, because
her heart was attached to the possessions
which they had left in the city, and contrary
to the command of the angels, she looked
back, nor could she then look forward to fol-
low her husband, Alas ! soon she was con-
vinced how much depends upon being obe-
dient. Weeping and lamentation availed
her not. How suddenly she was deprived
of her existence, for her eyes lost their sight,
her arms and legs became stiff, her whole
body became senseless—she was changed
into a pillar of salt. Gen. xix. 26 : she must
«tand ïbr an everlasting monum:ent. Alas
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 405
if the Jews had taken these things to heart,
their hearts would never have become as
hard as a flinty rock. This is the origin of
that water which you see at a distance.
T^. S. Father, you have told me a remark-
able history
!
S. C. Yes, but one that is no less dreadful
Alas ! I often wished that this wicked city
had only laid these things to heart ; if they
had, they would have not been punished as
you see they are.
W. S. Since you have given me a very
satisfactory account of the causes of the de-
struction of this city, please to tell me what
were the means employed to effect this de-
struction.
S. C. My son, you ought to know that
many drops had fallen as harbingers of the
coming shower which was to inundate the
wdiole country. In the first place, about six
years after the passion of Christ, Caius Cali-
gula, requested that his image should be
placed in the temple ; for he desired to be
worshipped as a god. This caused a great
distress and disturbance among the Jews
:
they entreated Petronius (the emperor's
general) that he should desist doing so. But
when he threatened them with death, they
stretched their necks to him, and were willing
to die. This caused much sorrowing through
all the country, so that no labour was per-
formed for the space of fifty days, and the
406 THE WANDERING SOUL
fields were left unsowed. And this uproar
would not have ceased had it not ceased
through the death of the emperor ; for Caius
threatened them with much severity till he
died. Thus the Jews had to suffer for what
they said to Pilate—" We have no king but
the emperor." Alas ! they might well have
desired to have had Jesus as their emperor
;
but it w^as in vain—now they must needs be
satisfied with their emperor. Afterwards, in
the days of Claudius, when Cumanus was"
governor in Judea, it happened on an Easter-
day, that the soldiers who were stationed at
fort Antonia offered the Jews an indignity.
As they were going to the temple to sacrifice,
one of the soldiers presented his naked pos-
teriors to them insultingly, which they vio-
lently resented. Some threw stones at the
soldiers ; but upon the approach of the Romans
in great force, their terror was so excessive,
and so disorderly and precipitate their flight,
that no less than ten thousand Jews were
trodden to death in the streets, which occa-
sioned great weeping and lamentation. At
another place a soldier burnt the holy Scrip-
tures, and there was also a Jew slain, who
was from Galilee, going to the temple (he
was murdered in the country of the Samari-
tans); and because Cumanus did nowhere
punish any for committing these outrages,
which again occasioned a great uproar, the
Jews were determined to avenge themselves
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 407
of these outrages by plundering and firing
their oppressors' possessions. Cumanus, on
the other hand, collected forces, and appre-
hended many of those that occasioned sedi-
tions, which occasioned great lamentation
throughout the land, for they were in arms
against each other, and none knew how it
would end.* At last came Quadratus, the
governor of Syria, and had many of the Jews
crucified, and beheaded eighteen of their
leaders.
W. S. It appears that those eighteen were
to fill the number of the years which the em-
peror Tiberius reigned, when Jesus was cru-
cified, and had to suffer, innocently, fop the
wantonness and cruelty that was shown to
Jesus when he was crucified so cruelly.
S. C. This is not said without some foun-
dation, for they were not of the number who
cried out, "Crucify him! crucify him!!"
for they suffered this of Cumanus, because
they defended the law. Besides the afore-
mentioned, there arose another molestation ;
for there were secret murderers, called Sicari;
* Not long before this pcrioJ a great number of Jews, on account
of a pestilence which raged at Babylon, removed from that city \o
Seleucia, where the Greeks and Syrians rose against them and de-
stroyed more than five myriads of them. Josephus says, " The ex-
tent of this slaughter had no parallel in any former period of their
history." About five years after this dreadful massacre, there hap-
pened a severe contest between the Jews at Parea, and the Phila-
delphians, respecting the limits of a city called Mia (Cuspius Fa-
dus was procurator), in which many of the former were slain.- -See
Josephus's Antiq. lib. 20, c. i., § 1.
—
Trans.
408 THE WANDERING SOUL
they carried missile weapons concealed, and
mingled with the multitude, and stabbed
those with great dexterity against whom
they had a grudge, and then concealed their
foul outrages by weeping, and feigning to be
ignorant of what happened. None were se-
cure against them, no matter how respecta-
ble or influential soever ; for they slew even
Jonathan, the high-priest, Caiaphas's succes-
sor. This caused great alarm and fear
among them. But it was a just punishment
;
for they prefered a murderer to be released
before Jesus. Now they received the recom-
pense of their unrighteous choice. Others
led the people into the wilderness—promised
them their liberty if they would fight against
the Romans.* Among others there was a false
prophet in Egypt, who collected four thou-
sand of such murderers :t daily were their
flags seen, villages burning here and there ;
houses were plundered, and the goods stolen
;
daily did seditions increase, and discord be-
* Joseplius informs us, that there wepe many who pretended to be
inspired, and deceived many people ; leading out numbers into
deserts, that they would there show them signs of liberty—meaning
redemption from the Roman yoke, which things the Jews expected
the Messiah would do for them. Josephus, de Bell, lib. 2, c. xiii.,
§ 4, 5.
—
Trans.
f Josephus informs us that an Egyptian false prophet led 30,000
into the desert, who were almost entirely cut off by Felix, the Ro-
man procurator. And that in the reign of Claudius, " the land was
overrun with magicians, seducers, and impostors, who drew the peo-
ple after them in multitudes into solitudes and deserts, to see the
signs and miracles which they promised to show by the power of
God." Josephus, Antiq. lib. 20. c. viii. § 6.
—
Trans.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 409
came more prevalent ; so that these wretched
people did not know whither to flee for re-
fuge. All these were but the beginning- of
tribulation, as Jesus had predicted. Matt
xxiv. 7. Mark xiii. 7. Luke xxi. 9.
W. S. That was a sorrowful beginning.
But could not the Romans with their forces
suppress these insurrections ?
S. C. It was impossible ; for none can re-
sist the omnipotent arm of God. True, Felix,
who was appointed governor by Nero, about
thirty-two years after the ascension of Christ,
slew some of these murderers, and so did
Festus after him. But it did not avail any
thing ; the w^rath of God was enkindled
against them ; for they did not reform, but
continued to be cruel and bloodthirsty in per-
secuting the apostles and other pious per-
sons.
W. S. Father, is that possible ?
S. C. The cruelties which they practised
upon the distinguished apostle Paul, are not
to be described, who was at this time on a
visit to his brethren at Jerusalem. They per-
secuted him even unto death ; neither vindi-
cation nor innocence could prevail with them,
they raved like demoniacs, cast dust into the
air, and appeared as though they would de-
vour him. The bailiffs knew not whence
these madmen came. They interfered, and
tried to quiet them ; but neither Felix, nor
Festus, nor Agrippa could quench this fire.
2 M
410 THE WANDERING SOUL
it appeaxs they were instigated thereto by
the vengeance of God : they desisted not till
the holy apostle left the country, and was
taken a prisoner to Rome, where he was laid
in chains,—with a chain on one hand, where-
by his keeper led him about, into and out of
the prison when it was required. But they
could not prevent the gospel from being pro-
mulgated ; for the letters which he wrote in
his bonds served to comfort and strengthen
the believers. But, by this course of proce-
dure they showed that they were more cruel
and tyrannical than the heathens them-
selves.*
W. S. These 'were perhaps only the ruder
or baser sort of them, and none of the more
. respectable.
S. C. They were the very flower, and most
respectable part of them ; namely, the high-
priests, elders, and scribes, and chief of the
people; for it happened four years before
the high-priest Ananus showed his cruelty
towards James the Lesser, as I have told you.
How could God be merciful towards such a
city? A city that would not reform, but
accumulated sin upon sin until they had
filled their cup of iniquity.
W. S. Thus I hear that all things con-
spired to the destruction of Jerusalem.
* After the death of Jesus Christ, the apostles suffered every evil
which the malice of the Jews could invent, and their mad zeal exe-
cute. Paul, by the order of Nero, was beheaded, about A. D. 69, or
70.
—
Trani.
WITH SIMON CLEOrHAS. 411
S .C. Yes, the longer the more, my son.
After Festus, in the fifth year of the reign of
Nero, Albinns was sent as governor to Judea
:
from that time forth it was observed that not
only the murderers which infested the coun-
try were harassing the people, but also the
magistrates of the country began to be trou-
blesome ; for this Albinus sought or cared for
nothing, except to fill his coffers with, money
He raised heavy taxes ; for the sake of money
he encouraged all manner of villany; so
that wantonness prevailed. The pious w^ere
compelled to hold their peace, and the inso-
lent profligates were permitted to indulge in
rioting, plundering, and excess. The ponti-
fical office greatly declined; for the high-
priest Ananias, who was a whited w^all,
bought himself the favour and protection of
Albinus by giving him presents and gifts.
He had wanton and dissolute servants, who
associated wdth the low^est class of plunder-
ers; they ransacked barns, and took the
tithes which belonged to the priests, treated
those with cruel violence w^ho would resist
them; so that many of the priests had to
suffer hunger, and endure great anxiety. All
the plagues followed one another. In order
that God might show that he was determined
utterly to destroy Jerusalem ; and to that
end, he gave them seven several signs, to warn
each one in the city of the coming destruc^
tion.
412 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. Father, will you have the goodness
to relate them in order?
S. C. For the first, a meteor appeared, re-
sembling a sword hanging over Jerusalem
during one whole year.* This unusual sign
made many afraid and faint-hearted, except
those whose hearts were hardened, who still
encouraged war. Afterwards at the feast of
unleavened bread, at the ninth hour, or at
three o'clock in the morning, there shone
round about the altar, and the circumjacent
buildings of the temple, a light equal to the
brightness of the sun. This light continued
for thirty minutes. At the same feast, as the
high-priests were leading a heifer to be sacri-
ficed, she brought forth a lamb, in the midst
of the temple. Also about the sixth hour of
the night, the eastern gate of the temple,
made of solid brass, was seen to open without
human assistance, which required twenty
men to close it every evening. f Soon after
the feast of the passover, in various parts of
the country, before the setting sun, chariots
and armed men were seen in the air, passing
round about Jerusalem, which was very
alarming to behold. At the subsequent feast
of Pentecost, while the priests were going, by
* Our Lord and Saviour said, " And fearful sights and great signs
shall there be from heaven." Luke xxi. 11.
—
Trans. _
\ This gate could not have been opened " by a strong gust of
wind, or a slight earthquake ;" for Josephus says it was secured by
iron bolts and bars, which were let dovm into a large threshold,
consisting of one entire stone.
—
Trans,
AVlTll SIMON CLEOPHAS. 413
night, into the iinier temple to perform their
customary ministrations, they first felt, as
tliey said, a shaking, accompanied by an in-
distinct murmuring, and afterwards voices of
a multitude, saying, in a distinct and earnest
manner, " Let us go hence." As the last and
most fearful sign, a farmer's son, called Jesus,
whose father's name was Ananus, during the
feast of the tabernacles, suddenly exclaimed
in the temple, " A voice from the east—
a
voice from the w^est—a voice from the four
winds—a voice against Jerusalem—a voice
against bridegrooms and brides—a voice
against the wdiole people." These words he
incessantly proclaimed aloud, both day and
night, through all the streets of Jerusalem,
for seven years and five months together,*
until tlie city was besieged, as I am going to
tell you : he went about, and when he was in^
terrogated, he replied only, " Wo ! wo ! to Je-
rusalem !" At length, he ascended the walls,
and in a more powerful voice than ever, ex-
claimed, " Wo ! w^o to the city ! wo to this
temple ! wo to this people !" and as he was
beinor shot with an arrow, he cried, " Wo ! wo
• Commencing A. D. 62, at a time when the city was in a stale
of peace, and overflowing with prosperity, and terminating amidst
the horrors Otf the siege. This Jesus, having excited the attention of
the magistracy, was brought before Albinus, tlie Koman governor,
who Commanded that he should be scourged, but the severest stripe«
drew from him neither tears nor suppUcations,—he never thanked
tlwse who relieved him, neither did he complain of the injustice o^
Ihose who struck him.—Trans.
2m 2
414 THE WANDERING SOUL
to myself !" All this crying was from God, as
a warning to the people, as a sure prediction
of the impending tribulations.
W. S. These are all prodigious signs. But
were there none that believed them, and re-
tired from the city ?
S. C. Alas! why should they ? Many gave
it a false interpretation : this was according to
the custom of the ancient pseudo prophets,
who comforted the people in their misery.
None regarded it, except a few of ours, called
Christians, who bore it in mind that the
Lord Jesus had foretold the destruction of
Jerusalem, and commanded them, when they
would see the beginning of tribulations, to go
out of Judea. And thus they went all out
of Judea, and went on the other side of Jor-
dan, into a village called J*ella,* where they
remained unmolested during all the tribula-
tions—sitting as it were, under the shadow
of a tree, screening them from the intense
heat of the sun, or under the roof of a house
protected from the storms and floods of rain.
* Pella, a place beyond Jordan, situated in a mountainous coun-
try. Such was our Lord's admonition, " Let them which be in Ju-
dea flee into the mountains." Matt. xxiv. 16-22. To this place, ac-
cording to Eusebius,who resided near the spot, the Christians came
from Jerusalem, and settled, before the war under Vespasian began
;
and thus marvellously escaped the general shipwreck of Jerusalem
and the surrounding country ; for we do not read anywhere that a
single Christian perished in the siege of Jerusalem. Eusebius, Hist,
Eccl. lib. 3. c. 6. Epiphaniiis adversus JVazcu'sat, lib. 1. § 7.—
Tram.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 415
W. S. This I have all understood. But if
you please, tell me how the punishments fol-
lowed these sions
?
*S. C. After Albinus, Florus was made go-
vernor in the ninth year of Nero, and the
«thirty-second after the ascension of Christ.
'He was more cruel than his predecessor : he
strove with all his powers to excite the Jews
to an insurrection, who were prone thereto,
so that nothing could persuade them to the
contrary. So that on a certain day there was
an uproar between the Jews and the Gen-
tiles, at Caesarea, on the seaside. The Jews
paid Florus eight talents to assist them, but
he did not do it; whereupon some of them
mocked him, by holding collections as if they
w^ere collecting money for Florus, This
irritated him so much, that he came witli
great forces up against Jerusalem. However,
the Jews w^ent out to meet him, salute him,
and reconcile him ; but he was not to be
reconciled. He scorned their overtures, and
repelled them b}'^ force, so that those who
jnade good their retreat came into the city
in great sorrow. When he had followed them
into the city, armed, he sat upon the judg-
ment-seat, called for his enemies, threatened
them severely, and commanded his soldiers to
plunder that part of the city where these
lived, slew many of the citizens, and had
many of the more noble crucified, which was
a dreadful spectacle to behold. None could pre-
416 THE WANDERING SOUL
vail upon him to desist from his cruel tyranny;
neither could queen Bernice, sister of Agrip-
pa, prevail on him, although she entreated
him pitifully in her bare feet. This in-
censed the seditious part the more. They
reviled Florus, and called him an infamous
character, so that the high-priests, who had
undertaken to reconcile the parties, could
s-carce with much entreaty quiet them.
Afterwards he assembled the chief of the
Jews, and proposed to them that if they
would receive his soldiers, which he shortly
expected from Csesarea, gladly, he would on
his part make honourable amends, and restore
all. The priests and Levites prevailed upon
the Jews, by singing psalms, to concede to
this proposition. After they were persuaded
with much difficulty to consent to meet the
Romans, all was useless, for they were
treated with insolent contempt And as the
turbulent Jews began to upbraid them, the
Romans made ready for battle, and slay-
ing and killing without mercy. In the midst
of this consternation, those who fled to the
city crowded so thick upon each other that
they trod one another to death. There was
a great cry in the city, for the Romans made
a violent push to take possession of the tem-
ple and of fort Antonia. But the seditious
Jews resisted, got upon the roofs of houses,
shot arrows, threw stones, till the Romans
were obliged to retreat. These were the
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 417
beginnings of revolting from the Romans.
This happened in the twelfth year of the
reign of Nero, and about thirty-fhree years
after the crucifixion of Christ, and three
years before their total destruction, or about
the same space of time that Jesus travelled
and preached the gospel, during which he
suffered much persecution, and the most
excruciating death.
W. S. These punishments appear to have
been ordained. Nevertheless, I have to in-
quire, were there none in authority that could
have quelled this increasing flame ?
S. C. Attempts of the kind were made ; for
king Agrippa, and Cestius, president of Sy-
ria, were engaged in quelling them. Cestius
commanded his captain, Neapolitanus, to
inquire into the conduct of Florus; which
ought to have satisfied them. Agrippa de-
livered a lonor oration, cxhortinc]r the Jews to
submit to the Romans, whom the Macedo-
nian kingdom could not resist ; nay, Athens,
and Lacedaemon had to yield to them; they
extended the borders of their kingdom into
Thrace, Illyricum, Germany, France, Spain,
and beyond the sea to Britain, and made
tributary the Egyptians. The powerful kings
of Asia had to succumb to them, they were
a scourge to the invincible Parthian king
:
the borders of their kingdom extended north,
south, east, and west, and there was not a
418 THE WANDERING SOTIL
nation or potentate upon earth that dared to
resist the Romans. That if they did not wish
to see their city wholly destroyed, they
should immediately abandon their under-
taking, otherwise the city and the temple
will be destroyed. This had some effect
upon them. If they looked upon their ruined
buildings it appeared to them that all these
things might be possible ; and it had some ap-
pearance that they woidd be reconciled. But
when Agrippa began to urge them to be sub-
ject to Florus, they again became turbulent,
began to throw stones. Every one trembled
for fear, so that the king was obliged to flee
the city with precipitancy. Whereupon arose
a presumptuous young man, Eleazar, the son
of Ananias the high-priest; he laid the foun-
dation for a complete revolt ; for he said that
sacrifice should be made for none except for
the Jews only, and consequently the empe-
ror's offering was also rejected, which was
hitherto customary in the temple to accept
of it. The high-priests and Pharisees re-
sisted this with vehemence, invited soldiers
from Agrippa's and Florus's army, and then
ensued a bloody contest. The seditious Jews
took possession of the temple, of fort Antonia,
and the royal palace, which they set on fire,
burnt up all the books, registers, and chroni-
cles therein ; the others took possession of the
upper part of the city, and fought seven
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 419
days together, tliat the blood flowed in the
streets.* Amono- whom also robbers minorled,
stabbing them in great numbers ; one crying,
another gnashing his teeth, another looking
up towards heaven, stretching out their
arms, streaming with blood. Thus they
w^eltered in their own blood, without knowing
whither to flee fpr refuge. But this was
nothing less than the righteous haud of God.
Now they might reflect upon their conduct
tow^ards Jesus, w^ien they mocked and in
suited him while in agonies on the cross, and
that the righteous blood which the Jews
shed was now avenging itself. Even as they
shed the blood of many holy persons, so
were they now murdered of the Sicari and
other murderers, like it happened unto Ana
nias the high-priest, and his brother Ezekias,
who were slain of Mamamus and his ban-
ditti.
W. S. Father, W'as this uproar only con-
fined to Jerusalem ?
S. C. It was like a fire breaking out in
* While Jerusalem was a prey to these ferocious and devouring
factions, every part of Judea was scourged and laid waste by bands
of robbers and murderers, who plundered towns, and in case of resist-
ance, slew the inhabitants, not sparing either women or children. Si-
mon, son of Georas, the commander of one of these bands, at the
head of 40,000 banditti, having with some difficulty entered Jerusa-
scm, gave birth to a third faction, and the flame of discord blazed out
anew, with still more destructive fury. These, rendered frantic by
rage and desperation, trampled on heaps of slain, fought against each
other with brutal savagencss and madness. The bodies of the dead
were heaped together, and a lake of blood stagnated in the sacred
.courts.
—
Trans.
420 THE AVANDËRING SOUL
the inner part of a house, and afterwards
is blown upon at all sides by the wind. The
mutinous part of them were busily engaged
in their expeditions, and took possession of
many cities. For instance, Massada, which
was a strongly fortified place; also, Mache-
runta, where John the Baptist was beheaded
;
besides Sebastia, Ascalon, Philadelphia, Pto-
lemy, Anthedom, Gaza, and others, some of
which they burnt, and took possession of
others, and drove the Romans out of them.
But as soon as this report was spread abroad,
the Romans fell upon the Jews, and in several
cities slew a great number of them. In Csesa-
rea, 20,000 ;* at Scythopolis, 13,000 ;t at Alex-
andria, 50,000;! ^^ Damascus, 10,000 ;§
and at Joppa, 8,000—men, w^omen, and
children ; so that this city was taken by sur-
prise of the Romans. You may readily
imagine the lamentations, misery, the cry of
agony everywhere. How sad the farmer
was to see his grain trampled under foot ; the
merchant had to hear daily of his goods be-
ing stolen ; the mechanic was deprived of
his earnings; yea, one friend had no disposi-
tion to visit another, on account of the await-
ing dangers from the Sicari,\\ murderers and
robbers, lying in ambush. Nay, what is still
* Josephus, de Bell. Ind. lib. 6, c. ix. sec. 3.
\ Ibid. lib. 2, c.xiv. sec. 3. + Ibid. sec. 3. § Ibid. c. xx. sec. 2.
\ Sicari, murderers, who, under the pretence of the law, thougfht
themselves authorized to commit any outrage.
—
Trans.
Wtta SIMON cLèopHas. 421
worse, in their cruel fights, they had to see
their fathers, mothers, brothers, and sisters
killed without being able to offer them help.
W. S. These were indeed cruel and in-
human ; but I want to know more of the his-
tory of Jerusalem.
S. C. Afterwards it happened that Cestius
Gallus, president of Syria, marched a large
army towards this city. He plundered and
burnt all where he came to,* so that many
fled into the mountains to hide themselves,
as long as they could. They all dreaded the
arrival of Cestius, yet they resisted him as
he advanced towards Jerusalem. He then
encamped at length at the distance of about
one mile from Jerusalem ; after I}' ing there
three days, he marched towards the city.
The seditious fled into the inner city, and if
God had not designed to destroy the city ut-
terly, Cestius, by the aid of other citizens,
might have put an end to those seditious
ones, and the city would have been saved
;
but he was intimidated. f He fled, and the
Jews followed him. His whole emcamp-
ment was in jeopardy, so that he escaped
with difficulty, and went towards Ceesarea.
* He burnt Zabulon, Joppa, and all the villages which lay in his
way. At Joppa, he slew of the inhabitants eight thousand four
hundred. He laid waste the distinct of Narbatinc, and sending an
army into Galilee, slew there two thousand of the seditious Jews.
He burnt the city of Lydda, and repulsed the Jews.—Trans.
f This was done by the treacherous persuasions of his own ofil-
cers,
—
Trans.
2N
422 THE WANDERING SOUL
The Jews, however, pursued, phmdering and
slaying all they could find;* and this victory
inspired them with courage, so that there were
no hopes to quiet them at all. Some of the
more discerning left the city at this time,t
because it was impossible to resist such a
powerful people as the Romans, with such
desperates as the mutinous Jews were.
W. S. These did like Lot, who went out
of Sodom when the judgment was at hand.
But did the seditious Jews not lay these
things to heart ? for, as I perceive from your
discourse, the farmer's son, Jesus, still cried,
"Wo, wo, to Jerusalem !"
S. C. What makes you ask this question ?
This was the least of 'their thoughts. They
regarded him as a madman. What he said
was considered all lies, in relation to the
overthrow of this city—^li]v.e the prediction of
the prophet Jeremiah, when he prophesied
touching Babylon. Therefore, did they every-
where increase their forces, appointed cap-
tains (generals) over each quarter : namely,
Joseph, a son of Gorias, and Ananias the
high-priest, to have the command of this
city ; Jesus, son of Saphas, and Eleazar, over
the country of Idumea ; Josephus, son of Simo-
* Tliey pursued him as far as Antipatris, and slew of his army
nearly six thousand men.
—
Trans,
+ Josephus informs us, that immediately after this disaster had
befallen Cestius, " Many of the principal Jewish people forsook the
city, as men do a sinking ship." Josephus, de Bell. lib. 2, c. xix.
§ 6, c. XX. § 1.
—
Trans.
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 423
nis, over Jericho; John Esseus, over Thama
Lida, Joppa, and Emaus ; John, the son of
Ananias, over the Grophonites and Acraba-
tenians; Josephus (the historian), son of
Matthias, had the command of Upper and
Lower Galilee. All these generals were gal
lant men. They fortified the city, repaired
the walls thereof, and guarded every for-
tress ;
prepared for the Romans, whose arri-
val they expected, and which caused great
fear among the common people. In the
mean time, they were not unmolested by the
robbers and murderers in the country ; for
Simon,* son of Gorias, a proud and mutinous
commander of a banditti, plundered and
burnt all the villages as he passed along.
And when the high-priests resisted him, he
went to the robbers at Massada,! to take
refuge in an impregnable fortification. Espe^
cially did he pass through Idumea, which
obliged them to garrison every place. You
may readily imagine the misery and wretch-
edness this occasioned everywhere.
W. S. But what did the Romans do ?
^S. C. The emperor Nero was at this time
in Achaia; and when he heard of Cestius's
defeat, and how the Jews were preparing for
war, he held a council to determine upon a
suitable person to send and conquer the
• We mentioned him in a preceding note.
—
Tratis.
\ At Massada nine hundred and sixty were slain. Josephus, de
Bell. Ind. lib, 6, c, ix. § l.—Tra?is.
424 THE WANDERING SOUL
Jews. Vespasian, a man of tried valour,
was appointed. He collected a great force
out of every adjacent city and country, and
arrived at Ptolemais* (in the ISth year of
Nero), a city on the seashore opposite Gali-
lee. His son Titus soon joined him with a
great force ; nearly 60,000 tried soldiers were
encamped. This caused great fear through
all the land ; they knew not whither to flee.
Everywhere were heard the beating of
drums and the sound of trumpets ; the ban-
ners were unfurled ; the reined horses be-
gan to trot and tread loud ; the soldiers, in
full armour, marched through the land,
spreading the most cruel havoc and devasta-
tion—plundering and robbing as they went.
One fled to the mountain ; another into
caverns ; a third into a strongly fortified city.
Full of fear, of deep anxiety, they were seen
to flee for life. There w^as general conster-
nation ; for if they fled from the sword, they
fled into the hands of murderers, who as-
saulted all with fury. They knew not what
alternative to choose—to surrender to the
enemy, or to adhere to the mutinous party.
Those at Sephoria surrendered themselves
to the Romans ;t but they who resisted were
slain by the Romans. All in Gadara were
* From this place he marched into Judea, in the spring of 76,
A. D.—Trans.
t Above two thousand were slain. See Josephus, de Bell. Ind,
lib. 6, c. ix. § 11.
—
Trans.
Wini SIMON CLEOPHAS. 425
murdered. Joppa, after a long siege, was
stormed and taken, and 40,000 of its inhabi-
tants were killed; some of whom had fled
into cellars, vaults, and caverns, but were
most cruelly murdered; others killing one
another, or committing suicide in despair.
Here Josephus was taken prisoner in the at-
tempt of fleeing. He was brought before the
emperor, who had him well secured. The
Romans also subdued other cities, namely,
Tiberias, Tarichea, Gamala, Gischala. The
scenes of carnage and consequent misery
that were occasioned are not to be fully de-
scribed, for many of the Jews killed them-
selves ; others did not even spare their fathers,
mothers, brothers, or sisters, but beheaded
them as pigeons, and threw them upon
heaps, as was done at Scythopolis and other
places. It induces shuddering to hear of those
distressing abominations of madness rather
than acts of prudence. They appeared to be
possessed of infernal furies ; for these were
the days of wrath of which Christ had pro-
phesied, that they would come. O! how
blessed were they that had no children born,
and the women that gave no suck ; for the
misery that existed then among the weeping
mothers, leading their children by their
trembling hands through the country, cannot
be expressed ; for they had to be afraid tliat
they M'ould either be killed by the robbers,
or sold to the Romans, to be slaves for ever.
2 N 2
426 THE WANDERING SOUL
W. S. dangerous times ! How did it
terminate with Jerusalem ?
S. C. Things had a bad appearance on
account of the prevailing dissensions ; for
the zealots, or robbers, acted abominably in
the city, robbed houses, and killed many
of the chief citizens. Ananus, the high-
priest, resisted them most powerfully; but
the zealots, to secure themselves, took pos-
session of the temple and the sanctuary, and
profaned the divine service, committing all
manner of licentious acts ; ordained a high-
priest of their own choice, who vras not of
the tribe of Levi, not according to custom,
but by casting lots, which fell upon a rustic
farmer, w^ho was accordingly inducted into
office. Whereupon Ananus advised the peo-
ple to resist by force, which occasioned much
confusion, inasmuch as a volley of stones
was thrown, and flew as thick as hail in
every direction ; swords were laid hold of,
and there ensued a general slaughter. The
lilood flowed so profusely, that the holy tem-
ple w^as altogether polluted. *^ The zealots
were driven into the inner court of the tem-
ple, and the gates guarded by 6000 armed
citizens. In the mean time, a presumptuous
man, named John of Gischala, pretended to
* The conflict was one of brutal savageness and madness. Eren
auch as brought sacrifices to the temple were murdered. The dead
bodies of priests and worshippers, both natives and foreigners, were
heaped together, and a lake of blood stagnated in the sacred court».
—Trcms.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 427
restore peace between the dissentious fac-
tions; but he deceived the people, and se-
cretly advised the Idumeans to assist the
zealots, saying that Ananus was ready to
surrender the city to the Romans. These
came before the city with 20,000 men; but
the citizens guarded the gates—preventing
them entrance. Afterwards there arose in
the niglit a tempestuous hurricane, accom-
panied with thunder and vivid flashes of
lightning, storms, rain, and earthquakes.*
In the midst of this tumult, the zealots as-
saulted the guards, opened the gates for the
Idumeans to enter, who, as soon as they were
inside the gates, commenced a dreadful
slaughter among the citizens ; for, being sur-
rounded by their enemies, they could not
escape. In the outer temple the blood was
running in torrents ; for in the morning, the
number of the slain was not less than 8500.
Afterwards they ransacked the houses ; kill-
ed Ananus the high-priest, together with the
other priests, and left their carcasses lie in
the streets to be devoured of dogs. Then
they fell upon the citizens generally, and
killed them unmercifully like brutes, till
12,000 had fallen victims to their barbarous
cruelty. They were no respecters of persons,
neither did they regard justice nor equity, but
• Taciti Annales, lib. 14, c. xxvii. same book 15, c. xxii. and it is
f)roperly the same as mentioned bv Seaeca, Nat. Qusest. lib. 6, c. i.
—Trans.
428 THE WANDERING SOUL
slew all indiscriminately they found or met
with. Here was one, named Zacharias, for
whom they lay in wait, and afterwards
brought charges against him. Although he
was pronounced innocent, and acquitted by
the judges, yet they killed him, and drove
the judges out of the temple. This was the
condition of the city before it was besieged.
"
W. S. It appears to me, that I feel my
hair stand mountainward, in listening to the
narration of these abominations. Jesus, on
coming down from the mountain, did not
prophesy in vain ; for he foresaw these things
in the spirit.
S. C. You may well say so. Besides this,
there was another evil existing. No one
was secure from the robbers ; for as soon as
they heard of any one that was favourable to
the Romans, they esteemed him a traitor,
and killed him cruelly, and left him lie in
the open street. Nor would they suffer any
one to bury the carcasses ; so that the streets
were crowded with dead bodies, and the
stench was nearly intolerable ! A dreadful
spectacle for the living to behold! so that
they considered themselves more wTetched
than the dead, especially on account of the
cruel and barbarous treatment they met with
in prisons.* John of Gischala laid plots
* They slaughtered the common people as unfeelingly as if they
tad been a herd of the vilest beasts. The nobles they imprisoned,
then scourged them ; and when they could not get them to join in
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 429
and plans to succeed to be governor of the
city. However, Eleazer, a reputable citi-
zen, opposed and resisted him with some of
the nobility and part of the zealots, for they
were determined not to yield to John of
Gischala, the tyrant, which occasioned daily
much shedding of blood.
W. S. But what did the Romans do, for
they did not remain quiet all this time ?
S. C. These advanced nearer and nearer
to Jerusalem. They took possession of Jeri-
cho, and killed those who had not fled to the
mountains, into caverns. There were about
15,000 Jews killed, and more than 2000 taken
prisoners, of whom the greater part ran into
Jordan and the sea Asphaltites : thus both
land and water were covered with dead bo-
dies. Afterwards they took possession of
Abila, Julias, and Besmoth, and on the oppo-
site side, the cities Sida, Jamnia, Amanuta,
and all the country roundabout. Vespasian
built castles, bulwarks, and forts about Jeru-
salem, so that he might surprise the streets
leading to the city in all directions. Through
one of his captains he took possession of the
city Gerezim, and marched towards Jerusa-
lem, and destroyed every thing around it, so
that the citizens did not know what to do ;
for from without they were in danger of the
with their faction, they killed them. Of the higher class twelve
thousand perished in this manner ; nor did any one dare shed a
tear or utter a groan openly, through fear of a sinylar fate.
—
Trau».
430 THE WANDERING SOUL
Romans, and from within the zealots harass-
ed them, that they could not escape to join
the Romans.
Vr. S. But did not these seditious factions
perceive that their destruction was at hand,
and that it w^as now high time to surrender
the city to the Romans ?
»S. C. They were too much blindfolded to
see their own interest ; for it appeared that
God had justly determined to leave them to
their well deserved fate, in order to punish
them retributively.
W. S. Their horror and apprehensions of
the just judgment of God were augmented
when the Romans had besieged the city.
S. C. This is very true ; for this encom-
passing continued for a long time, so that it
seemed as if the city was first to be punished
by dreadful distressings before it would be
destroyed. O ! how^ fortunate would they
have been had the Romans at once fallen on
them like devouring lions, carried about their
children on spears, insulted the women,
killed the men, and laid all in ruins, as they
did in some cities, so that their sufferings
would have at once been over. But they
were not so fortvmate : they were as one who
is sick; at one time convalescent, being
braced up by tonics, but suffering pains, and
subject to an immediate relapse, and thus
lingering for a long time ; or like a guilty
culprit richly deserving to be tortured and
Wmi SIMON CLEOPHAS. 431
tormented upon the rack, and then relieved
for a short time till his sores and wounds
have the appearance of getting well; and
then is again and again placed upon the rack,
and thus tormented till he suffer excrucia-
tingly, and die a lingering death—a cruel
death. This was the condition of the city,
the inhabitants of which murdered all the
prophets of God. Her judgment was of long
durance—her sufferings were innumerably
ffreat. The fire of their afflictions was orradu-
ally increasing ; for the city was first threat-
ened when Petronius was governor, but un-
der Fadus she was restored ; under Cumanus
she was again punished yet more severely;
Felix ameliorated her condition somewhat
;
during the reign of Albinus her sufferings
were greater ; Agrippa afforded her some re-
spite. But ultimately in the reign of Florus
she was terribly punished : it appeared then
that Cestius Gallus was to execute the sen-
tence. However, after his defeat, her peace was
measurably restored, still suffering inter-
nally on account of the different factious
murderers. The false and groundless hopes
of recovering only increased her misery. Af-
terwards it seemed as though Vespasian had
arrived with the sting of death ; but it was
only as if a person had his hands and feet
amputated, and lingering between life and
death ; for through the providence of God, he
had to march back into Italy to quiet the
43Ö THE WANDERING SOUL
rebels there. For Nero, the emperor, had
died ill the fourteenth year of his reign,
and Galba had usurped the throne, but
Ottho drove him off again. However, Ottho
was immediately conquered by Vitellius,
who now unworthily governed the empire.
Whereupon Vespasian was constrained to
remedy these evils, and to restore peace to the
country. He went to Rome in person, and
expelled Vitellius, and was declared emperor
of Rome by the common council, as one well
worthy of the office. By these occurrences
Jerusalem had a short respite from the rack,
for as I told you, these were as racks to them.
W. S. Father, what do you say ?
S. C. O ! it appears as if God had tied all
these rods into a scourge, to castigate this
wicked city. For Simon, the son of Gorias,
a great robber, who had retired to Masada,
permitted none to rule but himself, and feign-
ed to be opposed to the zealots, whom he re-
pulsed as they were marching out of the
city, conquering and driving them back
again into the city of Jerusalem. He then
marched into Idumea with an army 20,000
strong ; took possession of the whole coun-
try and of the city Hebron, in which there
was a great supply of ammunition and pro-
vision. By this time he collected a powerful
force, so that, besides the armed men, there
followed him 40,000 robbers, w^ho plundered
all as they passed along. His heart was filled
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 433
with anger and revenge, so that the desola-
tion of the country increased. They laid
waste every thing, burning, destroying by
trampling down the grain of the fields, and
laid waste all. Whereupon the zealots made
resistance, took Simon's wife prisoner, enter-
ed joyfully into the city, thinking to conquer
him. But he came before the gates of the
city raving like a mad boar, killed all that
came in his way, made prisoners of all that
came out of the city to fetch wood, or the ne-
cessaries of life, cut off their hands, and sent
them back to the city, threatened to storm the
walls, to murder both old and young that
were in Jerusalem : they therefore returned
him his wife. He compelled all the country
people to flee into the city, besieged Jerusa-
lem, killed those who were travelling from
the towns to the city ; so that he was far
more cruel than the Romans themselves.
But the zealots* in the city were more bar-
barous than both ; for besides committing all
manner of atrocity, robbing, plundering, ra-
vaging, they dressed themselves most splen-
didly in women's clothes, and ran enraged
through the city, stabbing all they met with.
This miserable state of things caused much
sighing; and they then wished for a com-
mander able to subdue tliese banditti : they
therefore admitted Simon Gorias, and made
* Zealots, Sicari, or murderers, whom wc mentioned in a prece-
ding note.
—
Trans.
20
434 THE WANDERING SOtfJ.
him chief commander. He immediately at-
tacked the zealots, flattering himself to do
just as he pleased ; but John^ who was at the
head of the zealots, made such powerful re-
sistance that Simon had to retreat. Mean-
while Eleazar, the high-priest, went into the
inner part of the temple, and got up on the
pinnacle and fought against John from above,
and Simon from below, so that John was be-
tween two enemies. Tiiese three factions
caused great bloodshed in the city, for they
fought daily among themselves, each striving
for the ascendancy. They burnt storehouses
full of provisions, thus depriving themselves
of the necessaries of life, killed the citizens,
murdered the priests, left the dead bodies lie
in the streets unburied ; and if any one la-
mented, he was thrust through with a spear,
and driven out of the city. The city was a
den of robbers, and a sink of iniquitous abo-
mination.
W. S. Unspeakable abomination ! But I
hear nothing of the Romans who were about
besieging the city.
S. C. Of these I will nov/ tell you. When
Vespasian, whom I mentioned before, had set
all in order in Italy, and was emperor, he
sent his son Titus to subdue the remaining
part of the country, conquer Jerusalem, and
completely to subdue the revolting Jews.
Titus collected large forces from different
countries, and marched within a short dis-
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 436
tance of Jerusalem, and after having viewed,
the city, accompanied by six hundred horse-
men, yet not without great danger, he en-
compassed Jerusalem. This occasioned great
fear among the zealots and other seditious
Jews. The city was one dead calm when
they beheld Mount Olivet lined with armed
soldiers, walking about with long spears.
The eagle, which was on all their standards,
presaged their destruction. Some trembled
and quaked for fear; others expected death as
the only certain deliverance from their cala-
mities; others again cried and wept, and la-
mented for their friends and relations, from
whom they were separated by the Roman
army ; for it was at the time of the feast of
the passover, when multitudes came up from
all the surrounding country, and from distant
parts, to keep the festival (the number is es-r
timated not to be less than 1,200,000), who
had come to sacrifice.* You may imagine,
my son, how great the distress was, for from
without the roads were crowded with horse-
men and invincible heroes of the Romans,
whose broad shields lined the country ; from
within nothing was heard but the cry of
* How suitable apJ how kind, then, was the prophetic admonition
of our Lord, and how clearly he saw into futurity when he said,
" Let not them that are in the countries enter into Jerusalem." Luke
xxi. 22. Nevertheless, the city was then crowded with Jewish stran
gers, and foreigners from all parts, so that the whole nation may be
considered as having been shut up in one prison, preparatory to tba
«xecution of the divine vengeance.
—
Trans.
436 THE WANDERING SOUL
murder, and the shrieks of the expiring-.
The miseries of tyranny were great: swords
w^ere sheathed in the blood of the dying;
they gnashed their teeth hke devouring
wolves ; a dread consternation prevailed
throughout the whole city. Some of the
aged now v/ell recollected how they had in-
sulted Jesus on the feast day, and had no
compassion upon him in his sore distress.
They well recollected the words he spoke
when walking along under the burden of his
cross, " If this is done to the green wood,
what will become of the dry." Alas ! could
they now have concealed themselves under
hills and mountains, they would have gladly
done so. But, alas ! this they could not do
;
they had to see their destruction approach,
for Jerusalem was compassed about with ar-
mies, as Jesus had prophesied.
W. S. Father, you are speaking of impor-
tant things. But did neither of the three fac-
tions in the city see that it would be better
for them to surrender to the Romans?
S. C. This was among their last thoughts,
for they fancied that they were defending the
sanctuary of God, hence called zealots ; and
like their ancestor, Judas Maccabee, they were
determined powerfully to resist the Romans,
in reliance upon the justness of their cause,
in defending the temple. They even attacked,
repelled them powerfully, and slew some of
the Romans, but were soon driven back
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 437
again into the city with a great loss.* In
their contests with the Romans, they united
;
but as soon as those without were somewhat
quieted, civil broils arose among them.
Scenes of the most dreadful contention, of
plundering and murdering ensued, and con-
tinued till they were assaulted from without
,
particularly were they quiet when the Ro-
mans applied their scaling ladders to the
walls, so that every one heard them at work.
Then tliey began to tremble ; their valiant
heroes lost their courage, and in great ter-
ror did they all see their destruction ap-
proach. Simon desisted from his cruel-
ties. John proffered peaceable terms. The
faction of Eleazar dispersed and arranged
themselves under John and Simon, united-
ly, to resist the Romans. They made seve-
ral attacks upon the Romans. They often
deceived them, pretending to be willing
to make peace, and to throw open the
gates. But when the Romans approache<l
near the walls of the city, they threw
stones and javelins at them, and thus suc-
ceeded to kill some of them. But by this
course they made themselves the more re-
proachful, evincing by their actions whom
they served. Although they appeared to be
zealous for the Divine service, yet they had
• On the appeannce of the Roman army, the factious Jews united,
and rushing furiously out of ttie city, repulsed the tenth legion,
which was with Uüiiculty preserved.
—
Tran*.
2 Ö 2
43S THE WANDERING SOUL
neither virtue nor godliness among them.
They behaved villanously; acted shameful-
ly in the sight of the heathens and their
armies, against whom they fought with dis-
dain !
W.S. O how great is that blindness which
puffeth up so much, that one cannot discern
his own sinfulness! Enough of this. I am
anxious to hear the end.
»S. C. On the 15th day of the siege, which
was on the 7th of May, Titus took the first
wall by storming it ; and because the city
was surrounded by three walls, there were
yet two remaining. Meanwhile the soldiers,
Jews as well as Romans, were under arms
(lay and night, each fearing to be attacked
by the other. However, after five days the
Romans took possession of the other wall
also; and, although the Jews took re-posses-
sion of it, yet, after a long engagement, it
fell again mto the hands of the Romans.
Titus, touched by their calamities, in person,
entreated the Jews to surrender, but they re-
fused. Therefore (the houses, walls, and
roofs being crowded with people) he drew
up his army in military order, marched them
regularly, in glittering armour, past them
;
dividing money publicly among them ; and
thus all were rejoicing in the presence of the
Jews, who looked upon them with sorrowful
hearts, especially the more so, because they
had to suffer hunger in the city, so that they
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 439
greatly lamented their sad condition. How-
ever they were too proud to surrender to the
Romans; still Titus hoped to compel them
to make peace by besieging them lor a long
time. As their fears and distress were still
augmenting, he sent Josephus to advise them
to surrender :* althous^h he delivered a lonff
address, he could not succeed to persuade
them to accept of what was reasonable. In
the mean time Titus erected bulwarks, and
made other preparations to storm the third
wall, so that the Jews might repent of their
obstinacy. But all was in vain, for God had
determined utterly to destroy the city, which
had already suffered indescribable misery.
W. S. I readily believe that very soon
great want prevailed, when there was no sup-
ply any more for such a great multitude of
people.
5. C. O, it cannot be described how de-
plorable a spectacle this was, for there was
no more grain to be had. The rioters ran
through the streets, broke open houses, ran-
sacked and searched them to find provisions;
and those citizens whose appearance was not
so ghastly, they beat with unprecedented
• Josephus earnestly entreated John antl liis adherents to surren-
der; but the insolent rebel answered him with nothing but ro-
proaches and imprecations, declaring his firm persuasion, that Jeru-
salem, as it was God's own city, would never be taken ; thus lite-
rally fulfilling the declaration of Micah, that the Jews, in their ex-
tremity, nutwithstanding their crimes, would presumptuously " Lean
upon the Lord and say, ' Is not the Lord among us 1 None evil can
oame upon u«i' " Micah iii. 11.
—
ïVan».
440 THE WANDERING SOUL
cruelty to make them tell whether they had
any provisions left. Weakly and sickly per-
sons they did not molest. Many of the sick
gave all they had for a single bushel of grain.
The poor died in great numbers—they starved
to death ! None could keep v^^hat he had
laid up in store, for they ransacked the
houses high and low, snatched half-chewed
morsels out of their mouths, killed the women
with whom they found bread, dashed the
children against the walls that they might
take their food from them. Some they tor-
tured inhumanly to make them tell where
they had their provisions. They pricked
them in their secret parts with roasting-spits,
and with pointed sticks,—they tormented
them by applying them to their posteriors
;
and the like cruel -barbarities did they inflict
upon them. No kind of cruelty was too
gross to be practised to extort from them pro-
visions. These troubles they brought upon
one another. All the reverence due to age
and the sacred ties of parent and child were
annihilated. Children snatched the half
baked morsels, which their fathers were eat-
ing, out of their mouths ; and mothers even
snatched the food out of their own child rens'
mouths. "As the siege advanced, the ravages
of the famine increased and devoured the
^people by whole houses and families. The
upper rooms were filled of the dead bodies of
the aged. The children, also, and the young
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 441
men, wandered about the market-places like
shadows, and fell down dead wheresoever
their misery seized them. At length the
famine became so extreme, that they gladly
devoured what the most sordid animals re-
fused to touch ; and a woman of distinguish-
ed rank, who had been stripped and plun-
dered of all her goods and provisions by the
soldiers, in hunger, rage, and despair, killed
and roasted her babe at the breast, and had
eaten one half before the horrid deed was
discovered."*
—
Josephus, lib. 5, c. xii. § 3, 4.
The bodies of those who starved were so
many that they could not all be interred, for
some who were returning home from the
funerals died on their return in the same
hour. And the worst of all was, that none
could escape ; for whenever any one made the
attempt, he was killed by Simon's men.
W. S. O dreadful, miserable, lamentable
condition
!
S. C. A great many that went out of the
city to get the necessaries of life were taken
prisoners by the Romans, and crucified.
* Josephus deplores the cm^ deed as a most flagrant violation of
nature, which tad never been perpetrated by Greek or barbarian,
and such as he would not have related, if there had not been innu-
merable witnesses to it in his own age. It may be proper to re-
mark, thai this horrid circumstance was a further accomplishment
of the prophecy of Moses, in Deut. xxviii. 53-57, and which had
twice before been fullfiUed : first, in Samaria, the capital of the
idolatrous ten tribes, when besieged by Benhadad, king of Syria.
2 Kings vi. 29 ; and again in Jerusalem, when besieged by Nebu-
chadnezzar. See Lara, of Jer. ii. 20, and iv. 10. Home's Intra,
vol. i. p. 620.—Note at the margin.
—
Tranu
442 THE WANDERING SOUL
They crucified so many that they could not
raise crosses enough, nor had they room to
erect them all, and therefore hanged them
upon trees. And the seditious Jews compel-
led the relations of the executed to come and
look upon them, to see this awful tragedy
—
where one beheld his father hanging in great
agony; another his brother, brother-in-law,
or some other good friend, writhing, and
with bloody hands and feet giving up the
ghost. P how dear they had to pay for the
sufferings they inflicted upon the friends and
disciples of Christ ; when they had to look
upon their Lord and Saviour in agony, while
the rest mocked him, and exulted in their
wicked undertaking. Now His blood had
come upon their children, as they foolishly
wished for, in the presence of Pilate.
JV. S. I am astonished at the Divine jus-
tice. Nevertheless their miseries were suf-
ficient to move the hardest heart. But did
Titus feel no compassion towards them ?
S. C. He had great compassion for them
;
but it was a richly merited and provoked
punishment from the Romans, for they could
not be pacified in any manner. Exasperated
by their obstinacy and insolence, he now re-
solved to surround the city by a circumval-
lation,* which, with astonishing activity,
was effected by the soldiers in three days
• This trench was thirty-nine furlongs in circuit, and strengthened
with thirteen towers.
—
Trans.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 443
Thus was fulfilled one of our Lord's predic-
tions, for he had said, while addressing this
city, "Thine enemies shall cast a trench
about thee, and compass thee roundabout,
and keep thee in on every side." Luke xix.
43. As no supplies whatever could now en-
ter the walls, the famine rapidly extended
itself, so that the streets were daily more
filled with dead bodies, and augmented the
pestilence so much, that some of those who
had buried them also 'dropped down dead
:
others went towards the grave before their
last hour had come, and entreated them to be
killed , but this favour was denied them ; for
the zealots scoffed at them, and would sooner
see them starve than to grant them their re-
quests. When the dead had become so nu-
merous that they could not all be buried,
they were thrown over the walls to fill up the
trenches, and terrify the Romans by their
stench. From the commencement of the
siege, that is from the 14th of April till the 1st
of July, 11,588 dead bodies had been carried
out through one gate, besides those who were
thrown over the walls. Daily great numbers
were thrown over. The consequence was,
that the line of battle, both from within and
from without, had to march over the heaps of
dead bodies, and trample them down, which
was a miserable spectacle to behold.
W. S. O ! how these surpass all other cala-
mities that ever befell Jerusalem.
444 THE WANDERING SOUL
S. C. 'Are you speaking of Jerusalem?
Yes, that ever befell all the world besides;
for the greatest sins that ever were commit-
ted were perpetrated here, in this city. But
to come to a close, you must bear in mind that
Titus had powerful bulwarks erected to
storm the third wall. After he had broken
down the outer walls, of which these heaps
of stone testify, he cut down the finest trees,
such as olive, fig, and apple-trees. For, my
son, the circumjacent country was like a pa-
radise, abounding with all kinds of fruit-
trees ; numerous were the pleasure-gardens,
in which the nobility and other rich citizens
amused themselves ; all these are now de-
stroyed. How transitory are all earthly things!
Little did King Agrippa think that the large
quantities of precious wood which he had pre-
pared to enlarge the temple would serve the
mutinous and seditious John for a bulwark.
Those who planted these pleasure-gardens
never thought that they were preparing ma-
terials for Titus to storm the city with. He
laid waste all around the city by destroying
and cutting down all the trees : he advanced,
the Jews resisted him manfully, threw stones
and javelins, any thing they could lay hold
of But the Romans closed their shields
against all this, undermined the walls of fort
Antonia, and demolished them with the bat-
tering ram ; but in the inside they found an-
other wall, and as that surprised them, Titus
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 445
encouraged his men to be valiant, which ex-
cited Sabinus, so that he fought against the
Jews for Ufe and death, who, after having
parried off the stones and other weapons with
his shield, fell upon his knees and covered
himself with his shield from the attacks of
the Jews till he died. But two days after-
wards twenty soldiers scaled the walls, stab-
bed the guard, took possession of fort Anto-
nia, and drove the Jews into the temple by
force, where a dreadful battle ensued ; the
arrows flew, trumpets were heard amidst the
cry and shrieks of the multitude. But the
Romans had to be satisfied with fort Antonia.
W. S. O ! sorrowful history !
S. C. After Julianus had made several in-
effectual attacks upon the Jews, and himself
being slain, Titus again sent Josephus to
proffer terms of peace, and afterwards also by
some fugitive priests. All this they disre-
garded, and scoffed Titus ; whereupon Titus
again made the attempt to storm the temple
by night. A contest ensued, in which many
were killed, especially of the Jews, who, on
account of the darkness of the night, in mis-
take, killed their ow^n people. The Jews,
after several engagements, burnt the wing-
work of the temple, and thus the beginning
of the destruction of the temple w^as by fire.
Afterwards they filled certain parts of the tem-
ple with dry wood, sulphur, pitch, and other
combustible matter, and retreated iii a sham,
2P
446 THE WANDERING SOUL
upon which the Romans entered it. The
Jews then put fire to it, and they were sur-
rounded by fire; and in the midst of the dread
consternation some ran into the hands of the
enemy, others threw themselves down from
above, others again committed suicide. The
miseries of the dying Romans were dreadful,
who were killed by this stratagem, among
whom were some noted persons, namely,
Longus, Cornelius, Antonius, and Lucius.
Such miseries befell the Romans, but worse
ones the Jews, because the famine still in-
creased; for not only the common people,
but also the rioters, for want of food, were at
length compelled to eat their belts, their san-
dals, the skins of their shields, dried grass,
which was sold for four pence per half ounce,
and even the ordure of oxen. Even the natu-
ral affections were disregarded,—women did
eat their own children !
W. S. O ! unheard-of barbarity !
S. C. I can assure you, my son, that I can-
not relate this without shedding tears most
profusely. Yes, my son, in the depth of
this horrible extremity, (as I hinted to you
before,) a Jewess, named Maria, of noble
family, urged by the intolerable cravings,
slew her infant child, and prepared him for
a meal ; and had actually eaten one half of
him, when the soldiers were drawn by the
smell of food, who threatened her with instant
death if she refused to discover it. Being in-
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 447
timidated, she showed them the remains of
her son, which petrified them with horror.
This affecting occurrence filled the city with
lamentation ; nothing was heard but weep-
ing, lamenting, and wailing, every one wish-
ing to die ; which, however, was not their
happy lot till they had suffered intolerably :
because they had distressed Mary, the mother
of Jesus, by killing her child, they had now
to suffer themselves. Alas ! they ought to
have had more compassion upon her, and
taken it to heart when they saw Jesus, God's
only-beloved Son, nailed to the cross, wound-
ed, and shamefully tormented. And al-
though this was done for their salvation, yet
did they not regard it, and because they did
not regard the days of their gracious visita-
tion. Those days came upon them in which
they said, as Christ told them, "Daughters of
Jerusalem, weep not for me, but for yoiu-
selves and for your children; for, behold, the
days are coming in which they shall say,
Blessed are the harren, and the womhs that
never bare, and the breasts that never gave
suck." Luke xxiii. 29. I am sick and tired
of relating any more about the calamities of
this cit7, which are almost innumerable ; for
I would rather retire to weep, than to talk
with you now.
W. S. Father, I readily believe you ; how-
ever, I wish to hear the end of this obstinate
people, and the destruction of this splendid
T
448 THE WANDERING SOUL
city ; for the ancient remains excite my cu-
riosity. Be pleased to let me hear a brief
history. I will not insist upon particulars.
S. C. When Titus found that the seditious
were not to be otherwise subdued, though
desirous to spare the temple and the people,
he commanded, contrary to his feelings, to
set fire to the outer gates of the temple, which
occasioned great fear among those that were
in it ; for they saw themselves surrounded by
the flames. Titus, determining to save the
splendid buildings of the inner temple, com-
manded the soldiers to extinguish the fire,
and made ready to drive the Jews out of the
temple by force. This is what the emperor
had determined to do, but the Almighty had
determined otherwise. Amidst all his exer-
tions to prevent the destruction of the tem-
ple, a Roman soldier, urged,- as he declared,
by a divine impulse, regardless of the com-
mand of Titus, climbed on the shoulders of
another, and threw a flaming brand into the
golden window of the temple, which instantly
set the building on fire. This caused a great
cry ; those within saw death staring them in
the face, because the Romans enveloped all in
blood and fire, and rushed in upon them with
drawn swords, which raised a most dreadful
cry of murder ! When the emperor saw the
fire, he sent messengers to interfere : he did
all he could to have them desist, but he found
it impossible to restrain the impetuosity and
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 449
cruelty of the soldiers. They made dreadful
havoc. The blood ran in torrents down the
stairway, dead bodies were thrust down ; the
yell and whoop of the soldiers, with the shrieks
and cries of the dying, made the mountains
send back the horrid echo, while the ascend-
ing flames consumed all. When the em-
peror, having attempted in vain to prevail on
the soldiers to extinguish the fire, desisted
entreating them, they, actuated by rancour,
soon spread the flames wider and wider.
Whole sections of walls were seen falling,
and covering the altar which was stained
with the blood of the slain. The weeping
Jews, standing at a distance, lamented the
disaster, and the destruction of their sanctu-
ary. The Romans then began to plunder,
•and murder all they met with, old and young,
men, women, and children, guilty and inno-
cent—all had to suffer death ! The seditious,
who were surrounded by fire and arms, also
raised a great cry, which, commingled with the
crashings of the burning temple, excited the
sympathy of those in the city. Some thrust
themselves into the flames ; others, with the
priests, fought against the Romans with
roasting spits, some of whom fled into the
outward building, to secure themselves be-
hind the wall, of whom about six thousand
were buried by the wall which fell. The
temple began to fall; the golden roof broke
3p 3
450 THE WANDERING SOUL
down, one side wall fell after another, the fire
increased more and more, the tumult was
ceasing, the heaps of ruins increased, the
burning beams, half covered with ashes, fell
crashing, half burnt. Thus the boast of Is-
rael was laid into ashes ; and the temple was
burnt on the 10th of August. On the same
day Nebuchadnezzar burnt the temple in
days past : between the two catastrophes, six
hundred and eighty-eight years elapsed ; from
the building of the first temple, by Solomon,
eleven hundred and thirty years, and from
the rebuilding b}^^ ZerublDabel, six hundred
and sixteen years. O ! what calamities, what
remarkable history have I related. Astonish-
ing ! The justice of God was visible in all
these things.^
W. S. It certainly was a just jugdment, an
unavoidable one, for it appears that they
were without any cause, determined to per-
sist in their mad career till they were utterly
destroyed.
S. C. Alas ! this is too true. For there
were false prophets among them, deceiving
* Thus terminated the glory and existence of one of the most
splendid edifices that ever existed. From its stupendous size, its mas-
siveness and solidity, according to all human calculation, it might
have resisted the most violent operqitions of human force, and have
stood, like the Egyptian pyramids, the shocks of successive ages,
until the angel sound the trump, " time shall be no more." But God
had determined otherwise. Our Lord and Master told the Jews,
" The day will come, in the which there shall not be left one stone
upon aaother, that shall not be thrown down." Luke xxi. 6.
—
Trans.
WÏTIl SIMÖl^ CLEOPHAS. 451
them with fair, but false promises, of their de-
liverance ; hence they would not accept the
overtures of peace from the Romans.
W. S. What obstinacy ! But I desire to
hear the end—hear of the destruction of the
city.
S. C. After the temple w\as burnt, the re-
maining Jews of one party fled ; and when
they would not surrender themselves to the
mercy of the emperor, the scene of carnage
and burning commenced again. The Ro-
mans set on fire the castle Akra, the register
office, the council chamber, and the palace of
qi^een Helena, and then spread itself through-
out the city,—whole streets were laid waste.
All their valuable furniture w^as burnt, their
deeds, bonds, and coffers were consumed,
their whole dependence was reduced to ashes.
Many were burnt, some suffocated by the
smoke, others stabbed,—the blood flowed so
copiousl}^ that the hot ashes were covered
with blood. The cry of murder that was
then raised exceeds description. The sedi-
tious Jews still had possession of the upper
city, which was built upon the mountain.
Some were ready to surrender; but when
Simon Gorias heard of it, he punished them
cruelly; yet finally the Romans took the
whole city, and marched in large bodies
through the streets, killing and murdering
all they met with. Not one was spared—they
Killed all without respect of person, till at
452 THE WANDERING SOUL
length the bodies of the dead choked up all
the alleys and narrow passages, while their
blood literally flowed down the channels of
the city in streams, and in some places ex-
tinguished the fire. This continued till the
Homans were tired of kilHng and murdering,
and till the remainder of the multitude were
fiecured in bonds and imprisoned. Alas ! the
houses, which before glittered, being orna-
mented with gold and silver. All their valu-
able furniture were now filled with putrid
carcasses of those who did not regard the
holy martyrs as deserving a decent burial
—
nothing but the ashes of the city covered
them. Those who refused the disciples of
Christ meat and drink, now perished by
hunger. Those who thrust James the Lesser
from the pinnacle of the temple, had now to
jump in great numbers into the dreadful fire.
Those who accused Paul before the Romans,
and were the cause of the death of Christ,
had now to fall victims to the sword of the
Romans, and perish most miserably ! And,
lastly, the city, which was a den of mur-
derers, who killed the holy prophets and
apostles of God, became a den of murderers
of her own citizens.
W. S. Father, this is worthy of attention
;
you did not relate these things in vain before.
But, as the city was thus destroyed and burnt,
I may readily conclude, that, in such a
wealthy city as this, the soldiers would richly
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 453
supply themselves with plunder, which they
no doubt found in abundance, and that they
did not destroy all, without first supplying
themselves ?
S. C. They were eagerly in search for all
the treasures. They tortured many of the
wretched inhabitants, by cutting their bodies
open to take from them the gold which they
had swallowed. They ransacked high and
low every private place ; nay, even the fetid
tombs did not escape their search. They
searched privies, in which the Jews had se-
creted themselves. Their booty was very
great, for the precious articles alone which
they pillaged from the temple were invalua-
ble ; l3esides what they got in the houses
which they took possession of While thus
engaged in searching, they found many of
the robbers, among others John of Gischala,
who had nearly perished by hunger and the
stench of the dead carcasses. He was taken
by the Romans ; but Simon Gorias had con-
cealed himself in a cavern, thinking to es-
cape after the destruction of the city, and
thus escape so richly merited a punishment.
But the wisdom of God was too wise for him,
for he was soon out of provisions, and being
now in sore distress, he determined upon
frightening the Romans by dressing himself
in a white tunic. In this habiliment he came
forth. At first some were frightened, but when
he approached them, he was immediately re-
454 THE WANDERING SOUL
cognised, taken, and delivered to the emperor,
together with his adherents, and confined till
the day of triumph
W. S. I well perceive, that wickedness
always meets with its own disaster. There
is certainly neither wisdom nor counsel that
can prevail against the Lord. But be pleased
to tell me what happened before the emperor
evacuated
.
S. C. He commanded that all which was
remaining should be destroyed, and to raze
the v/alls of the city, the gates, doors, palaces,
and other edifices. The walls of the temple
were razed to the ground. They were busily
employed with crow-bars and sledges in
breaking down the stones. The noise thus
occasioned, and the cries of the soldiers while
engaged, *'
Come here, come here !" &c.,
was everywhere heard. The echo resound-
ed and rebounded from hill to hill. Some
w^ere amazed at the firmness of the building,
requiring much labour to break down the
walls, but they were not the least dismayed.
They persevered till all was one common
heap of ruins, as you now see it, overgrown
by thistles and thorns, and. which astonishes
you so much. ]N[ot one stone was left upon
another of the temple, as Jesus had prophe-
sied, when we were with him on Mount
Olivet. The three lofty towers, Mariamne,
Phasael, and Hippocas, only remained, w^hich
Titus commanded should remain as evidences
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 455
of this great city, and as trophies of his vic-
tory. These towers are the dweUing-places
of crows, owls, and bats, which you see fly-
ing about there. Here, then, my son, you
see the destroyed city, which stood from the
time it was first built by Melchisedeck, rising
of two thousand years ; and from the destruc-
tion thereof till now, thirty-seven years have
elapsed; for I was eighty-three years old
when it happened, and am now one hundred
and twenty years of age. I lived to see the
glory and the destruction of the city, and the
causes of her destruction. I heard the pre-
dictions of her destruction uttered, and saw
the fulfilment of those predictions ; which I
have at last related to you, as well as what I
heard from my ancestors, and what I read in
the sacred Scriptures, and I have concealed
nothing, so that you may not be deficient in
the knowiedge of this history. And, now, I
suppose, I have answered your questions
satisfactorily, especially those which you put
in consequence of the surprise, wdien your
attention was arrested as you passed through
the city, and saw the heaps of ruins, burnt
walls, streets overgrow^n with grass, ancient
remains, broken pillars and broken gates,
and swarming towers. Be now satisfied with
what I have related, for I have given you
a copious account of all.
W. S. Father, I am under multiplied obli-
gations to you, for the instruction received
456 THE WANDERING SÓVh
from you ; for I need not now be astonished
at the dilapidated buildings—why these hills
are overgrown with thistles and thorns, and
all those other things. But I desire a tena-
cious memory to retain all I heard, which
you related to me so circumstantially. How-
ever, the substance thereof I shall never for-
get. Although you have fully answered my
first questions, and gratified my curiosity,
still I feel myself excited further to inquire
concerning the history of the Jews, and what
further happened from that time till now,
which appears, from your account, to be
about thirty-seven years.
S. C. Am I not allowed to rest at all ? Are
you still for troubling an old man like I am
with new questions ? Do you suppose I am
made of iron or steel,—I, w^ho have spent so
great a part of the day, and whose heart is
pierced with inward sorrows ? Shall I again
be troubled by relating distressing histories ?
Certainly, my son, although you may -wish
to have a knowledge of these things, still you
ought to have mercy on my old age.
W. S. I have certainly so much commise-
ration for you, that it appears to me as if
your tears were my own, and your sighing
often pierces my heart. However, I feel as
if I could not leave you before I also know
the rest. Who knows wdiat beneficial results
may ensue—^what instructions I may deduce
from the narration ?
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 457
»S. C. Therefore, as you wish to be in-
structed, I will then commence again. Son,
Titus took the remaining of them with him
as prisoners—there were about ninety-seven
thousand. O ! how sorrowful every one then
was ! Their sorrow you may readily imagine.
One had lost his father ; another his mother
;
a third his wife ; a fourth his children ; an-
other his brothers. Their country was laid
waste and in ruins, their city destroyed,
and they themselves bound between devour-
ing lions, whom they had enraged by their
obduracy. They sighed and looked for im-
mediate death, or everlasting slavery as it
happened to them ; for some were thrown
before wild beasts in theatres, which tore
them to pieces ; others were compelled to
fight against each other, till they destroyed
one another; others were compelled to run
through the fire, till the flames consumed
them. Thus many were killed. The hand-
somest of the youths were reserved to grace
Titus's triumphant entry into Rome. Some,
together with their wives and families, were
publicly sold like cattle, but at a very low
price. Thirty of them were sold at one time
for a penny.* This was a righteous judg-
ment, because they had sold Jesus for thirty
* Here wore fulfilled the words of Moses, who had predicted this
more than fifteen hundred years beforehand, "Jlnd ye shall be »old
for bondmen and bondwomen, and no man shall buy yo7i.**
Deut. xxviii. 68.
—
Trans.
2 Q
458 THÉ WANDEUmo SOUL
pieces of silver, although he was worth more
than all the wealth of the world. Thus
their cup was filled to overflowing. The
Jews were now hated, persecuted, and de-
stroyed, both here and in the cities; for they
were reproached by every nation. Some of
the Roman officers who remained, sabdued
all Judea, and took possession of all their
fortified places, of which Machurentha, where
John was beheaded, was the first. It appears
that this man's blood still cried for ven-
geance. Not less than three thousand of
the fugitive Jews were slain in the woods of
Jardes, whither they had fled. At the siege
of Massada, Eleazar, the commander, insti-
gated the garrison to burn their stores, and
to destroy first the women and children, and
then themselves. Dreadful as it is to relate,
this horrid design w^as executed. They were
in number nine hundred and sixty. Ten were
chosen to perform this bloody work. The
rest sat on the ground, and, embracing their
wives and children, stretched out their necks
to the sword. One was afterwards appointed
to destroy the remaining nine^ and then to l^ill
himself The survivor, when he had looked
around to see that all were slain, set fire to
the place, and plunged his sword into his own
bosom. Nevertheless, two women and five
children concealed themselves, and saw the
whole transaction. When the Romans ad-
vanced to the attack in the morning, one of
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 459
the women gave them an account of the whole
transaction. The whole country was then
taken, and made tributary to the Romans.
Simon Gorias, John, and other such fellows
were led in triumph into Rome, and were de-
rided by all. Simon was bound, and dragged
through the market-place, sorely beaten, and
afterwards executed, as the reward of his
wickedness ; and with him both the glory and
power of Judea was laid low.
W. S. But had they no hopes that the city
and the temple would be rebuilt, and raised
to their former glory, as was the case when
they returned from Babylonian captivity ?
S. C. They expected, I know not what
kind of a Messiah, who should re-establish to
their kingdom ; but in this they were de-
ceived ; for there were still some who under-
took to redeem them from the yoke of the
Gentiles, but they were all deceived, as I
told you before. The prophecy of Daniel re-
mains too true ; for it was predicted by him,
that this destruction should last till the end
of the world, and that Jesus is the true and
only Messiah, whom they rejected. He also
plainly told them that their house should be
left desolate ; for God will not establish such
a kingdom : his kingdom is a heavenly one,
which will endure through all eternity, into
which all the believers shall once enter. This
is our hope, our comfort, and belief, and this
is all we wish for in this world. The Jews
460 THE WANDERING SOUL
will find themselves deceived at last, because
they vainly hope for a kingdom in this world.
True, they will be scattered in the world till
the end of time, but never be restored to their
kingdom again.* Here the people of God
have much trouble, sufferings, and persecu-
tion ; even as Christ had to endure much af-
fliction, so should also his followers suffer.
W. S. What do you say ? had they always
to suffer persecution? Did not persecution
cease when the Jews had lost their power ?
Were there other tyrants than the Jews ? I
thought they alone were the enemies of God,
and on that account Jerusalem was destroyed
in such a dreadful manner.
5". C. Have you already forgotten that I
told you that we were slaughtered like sheep"
during the reign of some of the Roman em-
perors, and that many of the apostles were
most cruelly treated by the heathens ? It is
true, the Jews began first to persecute us; and
because light had appeared to them, their
sins were more heinous than those of the
Gentiles. However, the heathens also were
enraged, and devoured us like wolves. O !
* From several Scripture declarations, it is evident that the Jews
shall be called to participate the blessings of the gospel. Rom. xi. 2.
Cor. iii. 1 6. Hos. i. And some are of opinion that they shall return
to their ov/n land. Hos. iii. Isaiah Ixv. Ezek. xxxvi. The predic-
tion is, till the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled, and this indicates
that Jerusalem shall not be trodden down for ever. Some suppose the
time to be about the year 1866, others 2016. See Dr. H. Jackson's
Works, vol. i. p. 153; and Bicheno's Restoration of the Jews.
—
Trans.
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 4G
1
when I remember how many martyrs there
were in the reign of the cruel emperor Nero,
who was the first persecutor among the
heathens, and how many suffered under Do-
mitian,* and again under Trajan, my heart is
pierced with sorrows. It cannot hd uttered
how much Nero, the wicked emperor, raged
acrainst the Christian church. Amonor other
diaboHcal acts, he set the city of Rome on fire,
and blamed the Christians with the act ; and
while the city was in flames, he went up on
the tower of Meccenas, played upon his harp,
sung the song of the burning of Troy, and de-
clared, " That he wished the ruin of all things
before his death." The Christians he took
he covered with the skins of wild beasts:
they were torn to pieces by devouring dogs,
or fastened to crosses, and wrapped up in
combustible garments, that when daylight
failed, they might, like torches, serve to dis-
pel the darkness of night. The emperor him-
self was more cruel than a lion, who had
even his own mother cut open, and his tutor,
Seneca, who instructed him, and who was a
distinguished and wise man, he commanded
to be killed, together with many other noble
men in his empire. Is it a wonder that he
spilled so much Christian blood ? Is it at all
astonishing that he, when sitting on the judg-
ment-seat enraged, condemned the holy apos-
• In the year 95, under Domtóan, 40,000 were supposed to hava
suffered martyrdom.
—
Trans.
2 Q 2
462 THE WANDERING SOUL
ties? Who ordered Paul to be led forth,
who lifting his eyes heavenward, evidencing
a joyful hope of immortality, till he, on the
road to Ostium, kneeling, gave up the ghost,
being beheaded. He also most cruelly per-
secuted the other apostles, deacons, and bish-
ops. You may readily imagine if he did not
spare his own house, that he would barba-
rously treat those whom he considered ene-
mies.
W. S. You are speaking of a monster, des-
titute of every spark of humanity !
S. C. Domitian, who in his youth had ac-
quired a cruel disposition by killing flies bar-
barously, could not, when he was advanced in
years, live in peace, till he had seen the blood
of his own citizens shed, and still more the
blood of the Christians. However, in this he
was not only actuated by cruelty, but by
pride, for he wished to be called, " Lord and
God r and he felt sorry that any other one
should bear that name besides himself And
because the Christians refused him that hon-
our, for this name belongs to none but Christ
Jesus alone, he was very much enraged, and
determined to exterminate them. He also
equally cruelly punished those of the tribe of
David, so that he might prevent the coming
of the true Messiah, whom the Jews expected
to descend from that tribe. The various kinds
of punishment were cruel^—imprisonment,
racking, searing, broiling, burning, scourging.
WITH SIMON CLEOrHA.S. 463
hanging-, and worrying. Sentences were ex-
ecuted according to the edicts. Some were
burnt, others hanged, some crucified, some
flayed ahve, fried, or roasted in an oven*
made of copper, as was done with Autipas of
Bergamo; others were put into a caldron of
boihng oil, as was the case with the last of
the apostles, John. Some were stoned to
death by the idolatrous priests, as was Timo-
theus in the temple of Diana. Others again
w^ere compelled to figbt with wild beasts, as
did Atillius Glabrio at Rome. It was a great
mercy for them to be banished, and driven
from the country, which was the lot of Igna-
tius, bishop of Antioch; who afterwards re-
turned, and was again pursued, and it is to
be feared he w^ill be yet crowned with the
crown of a martyr. f He is a zealous follower
of the apostles, whose faith, sufferings, bonds,
and imprisonment, walk and conversation, are
known to him. They principally seek to de-
stroy the lives of the pious ; for these tyrants
are chagrined to see the church flourish in
time of peace. There were others who were
banished in the reign of Domitian. The no-
blewoman, Flavia Domicilla, although she
was his niece, his sister's daughter, was,
together with others, banished into the Isle
• In the form or shape of an ox.
j- He was devoured by two hungry lions, in the twelfth year of
the reign of the emperor Trajan. Compare Abr. Meli. torn. i. fol.
S5. Col. 1, 2, 3, 4, and fol. 26. Col. 1. with John Gysii Hia. Mart,
ftj. la, &c. printed 1619.
—
IVaiis.
464 THE WANDERING SOUL
of Ponto, for confessing that she was a fol-
lower of Christ. The apostle John, after be-
inof boiled in a caldron of oil, was banished
to the Isle of Patmos. Others were con-
demned to work in the mines, and were mi-
serable slaves. All this caused great lamen-
tation among us, men, women, and children,
because many of us lost our dear fathers.
With great anxiety of heart, they expected
that their punishment would be ameliorated.
Alas ! those who could earn their bread in
quietude and peace were counted fortunate.
The Jews were miserably degraded and de-
prived of all,—one basket was allowed them
only to go about begging, and a bundle of hay
to sleep on ; but this was a great mercy and
privilege in comparison with what the Chris-
tians had to endure ; for they expected daily
to be taken and delivered into the hands of
the merciless executioners. Some tied into
the wilderness, into caves of the earth, where
they had to suffer the greatest privations
imaginable: they went about in sheep and
goat skins, as vagrants and outcasts of the
earth. O ! my son, were I to relate all what
I have seen during the reign of that emperor,
time and ability would both fail me.
W. S. Were these tyrants punished ?
S. C. Not a little. Nero was hated and
despised by every one on account of his wick-
edness, before he was thirty two years of age,
and in the fourteenth of his reign. When he
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 465
was aware of that, he made an attempt upon
his own life : he fled from the city, and com-
mitted suicide. Domitian was stablDed, in the
12th year of his reign, in his own hall, wtiile
in the act of reading a letter which was
handed him by one of the traitors. Afterwards
his memory was blotted from all the records,
and his likeness destroyed; for every one
was for avenging himself on account of his
cruelty !
W. S. Did the persecution then cease with
them ?
»S. C. For a very short period—only during
the reign of Nerva. He was a mild and
kind prince. He released and remanded
home the unfortunate Christians. This occa-
sioned great joy in all the Cinistian churches;
for now they again received their exiled shep-
herds and dear fathers. John returned from
the Isle of Patmos to Ephesus, where he was
gladly received. Ignatius returned to Anti-
och ; and all the other exiles returned with
joy to their people, praising God for his
mercy. But this joy was of short continu-
ance, for before Nerva had reigned one year
and six months,* Trajan, who still reigns,
succeeded him, and began the third persecu-
tion against the Christians. He killed and
murdered as many as those before him did.
We heard daily that this one was made pri-
• Nerva only had reigned thirteen monlhs.—Trant,
466 THE WANDERING SOUL
soner ; that another one banished ; another
cruelly tormented, tortured, or starved to
death. Some were imprisoned; others be-
headed, burnt, or torn to pieces by wild
beasts, or had to suffer inhuman torments.
This cruelty has been carried on for eight
years already, and, it is to be feared, will not
soon end.* Yet the Lord knows : for our
part we are prepared to meet all, whatever
may happen us.
W. S. Was this emperor such a great ty-
rant ?
S. C. No, not at all. He was a good em-
peror in the management of his political af-
fairs.
W. S. You excite my astonishment anew
!
I cannot comprehend this !
S. C. O ! my son, you ought to bear in
mind, that all the wisdom of the world can-
not comprehend the wisdom of God. This
emperor thought that we were very wicked,
because we w^ould not worship their gods.
You recollect what Noah told you of the be-
ginning of idolatry in his time ; and you also
heard from my narration that several noted
men, such as Jupiter, Venus, Pallas, Vesta,
Saturn, Pluto, and a host of others, were dei-
fied as gods and goddesses. These, by length
* Trajan died, A. D. 117, and was succeeded by Adrian. In the
Jirst years of his reign, the persecution went on ; but, upon the
whole, less distressing than during the reign of Nero and Domitian.
See Brückt's Hist. JkTarft/rs, in German.—Trans,
WITH SIMON CLEOPIIAS. 467
of time and fabulous histories, were indelibly
impressed upon their minds, that they were
honoured as gods by erecting temples and
offering sacrifice to them. And they firmly
believed that those gods governed the world,
and conferred all the blessings they enjoyed,
which, however, are the gifts of the one only
God, creator of heaven and earth; and be-
cause we ascribed all this to the only God,
and rejected their idols, they esteemed us
as wicked. Whenever any misfortune hap-
pened on earth, such as pestilence, fire, war,
earthquakes, dry and unfruitful seasons, or
any other calamities, we were blamed for
all these, "Because," said they, "the gods
do not receive their just sacrifice, and are
therefore angry, and send such calamities
among us." By such and like surmises, we
were hated of all men, rejected and perse-
cuted, and even of wise and prudent rulers,
among whom we may reckon this emperor.
W. S. But did your sedentary life, your
virtuous deportment, not convince them that
you were not wicked ; but, on the contrary,
pious and honest ?
S. C. Alas! they laid more than this to
our charge ! They deprived us of our good
name, of our honour, as much as possible.
They opposed us in our meetings and assem-
blies, for we often met at night. They
spake all manner of evil against us, accusing
us of doing unlawful things ; especially did
468 THE WANDEUTNG SOUL
their idolatrous priests exaggerate before
their rulers. However, some of the more pru-
dent examined impartially into the matter,
and found it otherwise, which made a favour-
able impression upon the people ; for not long
ago, it so happened, that in Bythinia, in
Asia, the chief burgess, Plinius, paid strict
attention to our conduct and behaviour, and
wrote a letter to the emperor, in which he
said, "That he was astonished at the great
number of Christians, and their good moral
conduct; for," said he, "they do nothing
evil, but rise very early in the morning and
meet together to praise God, by singing anä
praying, and other commendable exercises
;
and that it was his decided opinion, better
not to kill the Christians, but to tolerate them
;
and the more so, because he was of opinion
that it was the only w^ay to lessen their num-
ber, and that they ought not to be destroyed
by violence." This letter had its desired ef-
fect upon the emperor : he issued an edict
that none should apprehend any of the Chris-
tians, but only to kill those that were in cap-
tivity, or should otherwise fall into their
hands. But the persecution did not alto-
gether end, it only ameliorated their sen-
tence when pronounced by righteous judges.
The unjust and tyrannical were as cruel as
ever in executing sentence, and often said
hypocritically, "We do not kill you, it is
the edict of the emperor that does;" and
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 469
therefore many are in dread and sorrow, that,
tyranny is still exercised under the garb of
pretended justice.
W. S. Alas ! that is lamentable !
S. C I would weep for them day and
night, if there were not as much cause of
joy as there is for grief
W. S. What joy can there arise from
hanging, burning, strangling, beheading, and
the like cruel inflictions ; their goods confis-
cated, and they banished; unless a person
can rejoice to see widows and orphans weep,
and to hear them cry !
•
S. C. \ we Christians shed prophetic
tears
!
W. S. I shall again listen with astonish-
ment to your explanation, for otherwise I
cannot comprehend the meaning of your
words.
S. C. ! son, I have lived to see several
persecutions, and a time when we were free
from persecution ; but what does it avail ?
How much we have been humbled, how de-
voted we have become, and become dead to
the things of this world through these perse-
cutions ! We maintained ourselves by mecha-
nical pursuits, we were satisfied with the
common necessaries ; our clothing, meat, and
drink were very common, our thatched cot-
tages showed that we were but pilgrims upon
earth. We w^ere not for laying up treasures
upon earth : w^hat we had left was distributed
2R
470 THE WANDERING SOUL
among the poor, we kept a common table for
all ; with pleasure and a joyful heart we now
and then met secretly—^no forest was too dark,
no road too tedious, no place too far off". We
rejoiced to see each other—garrets, barns,
and caves were welcomed by us; the cobwebs
therein gave us more pleasure than all the
gold in Solomon's temple. ! the pious con-
versation, what ardent devotions in the soli-
tary ! There the bishops displayed great
wisdom in comforting their flocks in their
sore distress, and thus some were effected to
renounce the world, and join themselves, by
baptism, to the believers. O ! the tears that
were shed ! what anxiety was evinced ! what
heavenly joy prevailed, and filled the hearts
of the assembly ! Whole nights were spent
in prayer and divine exercises. Every one
was fervid in heavenly zeal ; love, like a cord,
united our hearts; there was no molestation.
The soul was free from all earthly cares, its
affections directed heavenward, as if borne up
on wings. I knew many who would have
gladly met the executioner, and suffered exe-
cution, to be speedily translated from this
wicked world, to enjoy the company of their
beloved bridegroom Christ Jesus. Neither
flames of fire, nor brandished swords, nor
wild beasts could deter them from their holy
resolutions ;
yea, what do I say, deter them
!
All these torments only strengthened and
encouraged them ; urging them on in their
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 471
pious course. They regarded them as purg-
ing medicines against all the evils of sin :
the Christian church increased daily, and
flourished so much, that its increase gave
rise to the proverb, " Tlie hlood of the mar-
tyrs is the seed of the chu?rh.^'
W. S. You speak of a mysterious and un-
heard-of fervency. But did this fervency not
continue in time of peace ?
S. C. The persecutions did not so readily
abate ; the mandates were not so speedily
and universally published, that every one
was set at liberty. Thus this great fire began
to diminish : the security of life gave occasion
for many speculations. One betook himself
to mercantile business, one provided himself
with a palace, a third purchased lands, which
he planted with all kinds of trees; others
were not satisfied with one farm, but added
farm to farm, house to house. Some pursued
other enjoyments, so that all were eager in
their own pursuit They began to consider
wdiat was necessary for the ensuing year,
how much rent or income would be requi-
site for this life ; and then their cares were
about their children, so that they also might
have a sufficient income. In short, their
minds were occupied and polluted by the
things of this word : their attendance at
meetings was mere formality ; brotherly love
grew cold ; those who did before distribute
their goods among the distressed brethren
472 THE WANDERING SOUL
now shut their hearts against them. The
love of money was greater than the love of
souls : riches and gain were esteemed godly,
and poverty a shame. They were more anx-
ious to accumulate wealth than to become
virtuous, and yet nothing was so detrimental
as riches, for they increase the love for this
world ; they began to be respected and ho-
noured by the noble, associating with them
;
they were honoured with offices among them,
imitated their manners, changed their dress,
built splendid houses, fared sumptuously
daily, began to hate each other, eager in
pursuit of transitory things, which they be-
fore little regarded. Before they would suffer
their possessions and goods to be taken with-
out resisting. But, alas ! now they risked
their lives for them, or at least made great
exertions to save them ; humility and pa-
tience, the nurses of virtue, were little regard-
ed. O ! my son, you may readily imagine
how injurious this was to our meetings ! how
drowsy many were, having their minds dis-
tracted ! Love abated among us, and this it
was that the aforementioned Plinius of By-
thinia well observed, and he therefore ad-
vised Trajan, the emperor, not to persecute
us, but allow us our liberty, and we would
ourselves soon degenerate, and our number
be naturally diminished. How well consider-
ed was this advice, urged by the instigation of
the enemy of all good, who thus attempted to
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 473
ensnare oiir souls, well knowing that this
world is detrimental to the Christian cause.
W. S. But the bishop and elders ought to
preach manfully against the increasing evil
—
root up this evil as much as possible. They
ought to reprove, threaten, and exhort, so
that the people would continue sound in the
faith, and not be contaminated by the infec-
tions of the world.
»S. C. Son, reproof and exhortation were
not wanting ; they preached and entreated
as earnestly as they did during the persecu-
tion. It might be said, their sermons were
more studied, and their places of meeting
were more finished, than they were during
the times of sore distress. But what did that
benefit? The love of this world cannot be
banished from the hearts of men in this way
;
for even the bishops, where all things pros-
pered, were entangled in the same snare.
Alas ! how many did I know, whose zeal
abated : and the hands that wrote instruc-
tive letters were now engaged in accounts.
Those who were wont to go to meeting by
day or by night, through rains, storms, and
winds, to join in devout exercise with the be-
lievers, were now actively employed in mer-
cantile houses. The tongues that used to
praise the Lord, were now engaged in ma-
naging a bargain, or speaking of the news of
the day : their minds were wholly absorbed
by the things which were esteemed among
2r2
474 THE WANDERING SOUL
the noble and great of the earth. The poor
were despised, the great and renowned com-
manded their attention and respect ; the poor
were now dejected and troubled in mind, for
they were not respected as much as they had
been. This occasioned discontentment on
both sides. Their love abated, they had less
intercourse with one another ; and had not
God occasionally chastised the church, the
Lord knows what pride might have arisen
among those carnally-minded bishops ! what
strange things they would yet begin ; nay,
what a general apostacy would have happen-
ed. But I trust that God, who is a merciful
Father, will take care of his own, so that they
may be saved at last.
W. S. Father, I would not suppose that
all the bishops and elders were polluted with
this evil in the times of their liberty, as you
have been telling me.
S. C. By no means, my son ; that would
have been a lamentable state of things ! I
only spoke of the general state of things ; for
I am well aware of the unshaken piety of
some faithful shepherds, such as Ananias of
Alexandria, who died fourteen years ago, and
his successor, Abilius, who showed himself a
man in perilous times : he died eight years
ago ; and his successor, Cerdon, did not less
successfully rule the church, with virtue and
in wisdom. And also Ignatius, of Antioch,
whom none did excel. What a pious man he
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 475
was ! how affectionately he exhorted his peo-
ple to be steadfast amid all their persecutions
;
waiting and looking for nothing less than to
be taken prisoner himself, by order of the
cruel emperor, which he would have esteem-
ed a great pleasure. Who is able fully to re-
late all the virtues of the holy Polycarpus,*
the successor of his teacher, the holy apostle,
John, who ruled the church at Smyrna. The
church at Hierapolis is also blessed with two
burning and shining lights, namely, Papias,
and Quadratus,t who teach them as they
were instructed to do by the apostles, and
what the Holy Ghost yet teaches them, and
feed them richly with the bread of life. And
what shall I say of Clemens Romanus, the
disciple of Paul ; and of others who are zeal-
ous, and walk in the footsteps of their prede-
cessors ? O ! how devout, and filled with the
love of God, did these men rule the church
:
their gray hairs were honoured,—how in
structive their preaching was ; how earnestly,
and with what seriousness did they read the
writings of the apostles, as well as the letters
of the holy martyrs, which they had written
in bonds and in prison. O ! the tears that
were shed, the prayers uttered ! and what
• Was killed by the sword and fire, in the eighty-seventh year of
his age, and twenty-seventh of his ministry, A. D. 168. See Iren,
lib. 3, and T. J. V. Bracht's Hist. Martyrs, fol. 49-51. Ger. Ed.—
TVons.
f Quadratus made a learned apology in favour of the Chri«tia(Vi
before the emperor Adrian.
—
Trßns,
476 THE WANDERING SOUL
songs of praise ! what a preparation was made
for death ; for they did not know whether
they would be crucified, or hanged, or die a
natural death in bed. O ! the eldest apostle
John,* whom I knew in my younger days,
when he was but a youth. "What agreeable
words flowed from his lips in his old age,
who preached to, and exhorted his children
to love one another, which is, indeed, the
bond of perfection ; and we had evidence of
this among ourselves. O ! I wish that I could
feed my flock here, in this ruined city, as well
as he did his at Ephesus. They have now
wept and sorrowed for him for seven years,
and when mine will be sorrowing for me, I
know not. However, I trust that the chief
Shepherd will supply my place with some
one else. I would recommend Justus ; he is
zealous and devout man: he has been my
fellow helper. And it is time that I take
charge of my flock again, of which I had the
superintendence for forty years, since the
death of the holy apostle James the Lesser.
I have now spent four days with you, and
been at your service—answered all your
questions which you proposed : the night is
drawing nigh, and we will have to retire.
W. S. I have no reason to detain you any
longer, father, although I should not have
• John was the only apostle who escaped a violent death, and
lived the longest of any of them, being nearly one hundred years of
«ge at the time of his death.
WITH SBION CLEOPHAS. 477
been displeased to hear something concerning
the apostles' writings, which you say were
read in your meetings. Whose are they,
and how did you get them ?
S. C. My son, you are determined to lead
me from one to the other. Those writings
have been collected from different places,
some from Corinth, from Rome, Ephesus,
Philippi, Colosse, and other cities and coun-
tries, and have lately been put together into
a book. Four of them give an account of
Jesus, a fuller account than the one I gave
you; the first was written by Matthew; the
other by Mark, a disciple of Peter: the third
by Luke, a fellow-companion of Paul ; the
fourth was written only ten years ago by
John, together with another book, replete
with mysteries, which he wrote on the Isle
of Patmos, whither he was banished by Do-
mitian. And we read other writings, twenty-
two in number, principally written by the
apostle Paul, and sent to the several churches,
which are now all carefully preserved and
attentively read. You ought to read them
all, for in them you will find the truth of all
what I have told you concerning our religion.
Now tender me your hand, that I may re-
turn home. Please to lead me through these
heaps of stones.
W. S. O ! aged father, I do not wonder at
you that you are stiff; but I am astonished
478 THE WANDERING SOUL
that you can walk at all on account of your
advanced age
!
S. C. Yes, my son, you may think how
one should stand it as I do, who has lived to
see thirteen emperors reign. For I was born
in the 31st year of the reig'n of Augustus,
and was 26 years of age when Tiberius be-
gan to reign, in whose reign Christ was cru-
cified, and when the gospel was begun to be
promulgated, beginning at Jerusalem. In
the 48th year of my age, Caligula began to
reign. In his reign commenced the wars in
Judea, and the persecution of the apostles.
Three years afterwards, Claudius succeeded,
in the 50th year of my age. About that
time the gospels were written, and preaching
was common everywhere. In my 65th, the
cruel tyrant Nero began to reign. During
his reign, nearly all the apostles were mar-
tyred, and the destruction of Judea began.
Galba, Otto, and Vitellius reigned in the
80th year of my age. After that, Vespasian
reigned ten years : during his reign this city
was most dreadfully destroyed, which I have
circumstantially related to you, and the ruins
of which you now see before you. In my
90th year, Titus reigned peaceably ; but be-
fore the expiration of three years, his brother
Domitian began to reign, who persecuted all
the Christian churches. And in the 108th
year of my age Nerva began to reign, and
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 479
reigned well for two years, under whom we
had a short respite. But when I entered
upon my 111th year, it was reported that a
good emperor had began to reign ; it was
Trajan, in the beginning of w^hose reign the
holy apostle John died happy. As I told
you, this emperor has persecuted us these
eight years, and how long this may continue,
only He knows to whom all things are known.
But I, who have nearly attained the age of
Moses, expect nothing else than to die unto
Christ my Lord, and through him to enter
into everlasting bliss.*
W. S. Father, I wish you that with all
my heart. I shall long remember your nar-
ration. When I see these old arches, these
dilapidated streets, these walls in ruins, these
fumigated stones, these green mountains,
with here and there the remains of an edifice,
and especially those high towers, whose tops
reach the clouds—these all will bring to my
mind the dreadful destruction of this city.
Mount Zion will bring to my mind the king-
dom of David ; Mount Moriah will remind
me of the temple ; Mount Calvary, of the
crucifixion of Christ; Mount Olivet, of his
• Simon Cleophas was crucified in the year A. D. 109, by At(i-
cuti, by order of Trajan. See Eu9. Ecc. Hist. lib. 3, cap. 11, &c.
Epiph. supra in Sjjmb. Mph. &c. Compare the 1st Book ofA. Jfelliii,
printed 1617, fol. 24, col. I, 2, with Hist. Martyrs, John Gysii,
more recently printed by L. Broat, JÏ. D. 1657, fol. 15, col. 1.
&c. See also T. J. V. Bracht's Hist. Mar. Ephrata Ed. 1748,
fol. 40, in German,—Trans.
480 THE AVANDERING SOUL
ascension ; ruined Bethlehem, of his birth"
place ; the broken walls of the fountain, of
his entrance into Jerusalem; Bethany, his
place of residence; and the whole country
will strongly bring to my mind his sojourn-
ings and travels ; also the history of the pa-
triarchs, the prophets, and the apostles, and
all that you have related to me. But how
should I know what all these things meant,
had you not, reverend father, instructed me?
How profitable it is to converse with wise and
old men. Your narration did not only satisfy
my curiosity, which was at first excited
when I saw those dilapidated buildings; but
I have also been informed of the whole his-
tory of the Divine procedure respecting the
things which Adam, Noah, and you related
to me, which have been all set before me in
order. I have understood the Divine good-
ness in the fulfilling of his promise ; His
wisdom, in their direction ; His power, in
destroying the powers of this world ; His
justice in punishing sin; and finally His in-
comprehensible mercy towards those who
love and fear him. Your historical relation
shall be to me as a well-finished horologe,
which tells the hour and minute plainly, so
that, in conclusion, I may note the time.
Your history shall be to me a comment upon
the shadow of things, and lead me at once to
the reality of the matter; and divert me
from earthly things, and direct my attention
WITH SIMON CLEOPHAS. 481
to heavenly things—imperishable things, for
which I shall always be under lasting obliga-
tions to yon. Therefore, I wish that you may
shine with Christ Jesus, in whom you trust
;
and although we part according to the flesh,
that we may meet in eternal glory.
S. C. I thank you, my beloved son, and
rejoice to think that you will profit thereby ;
and, I hope, that by proper meditation and
reflection, you may still advance further, to
which end may the blessing descend upon
you from above, through Jesus Christ oui
Lord
—
Amen.
S2
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE,
WITH THE CREATION, AND TEUMINATING A. D. 109, COMPRISING
A PERIOD OV RISING OF FOUR THOUSAND YEARS.
Note—Tin-: name, evknt, äcc. mentioned in sacred history begins with Ro-
man capitals; those in profane kistorii, with Italic letters. B. C'.
i
Btands for Before Christ. The geiiealopy of our Saviour (names of the
persons) is in Roman capitals. The number of tlieiii included in brackets,
Thefirsl age of the world,
r. 0.
4004. God created heaven and earth ; and (1) Adam.
3875. Cain slew Abel.
3874. (2) Seth is born.
3796. (3) Enos born. Men call on the name of the Lord
3679. (4) Cainan born.
3609. (5) Mahalaleel born.
3541. (6) Jared born.
338-3. (7) Enoch born.
3317. (8) Methuselah born.
3130. (9) Lamecii born.
3074. Adam dieth, ag-ed 930 years.
3017. Enoch, in the 305th of liis age, is taken up by God,
2962. Seth dieth, aged 912 years.
2948. (10) Noah born.
2864. Enos dieth, aged 905 years.
2769. Cainan dieth, aged 910 years.
2714. Mahalaleel dieth, aged 895 years.
3582. Jared dieth, aged 962 years.
2469. God commands Noah to preach repentance and to build
the ark.
2448. To Noah, aged 500, is born Japheth, and two years
after (11) Shem.
2353. Lamech dieth, aged 777 years.
2348. Methuselah dieth a little before the flood, aged 969.
—
The flood comes upon the earth in the 600th year of
Noah's age, and in the 1656th ear from the creation
483
484 CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE.
The second age of the world.
B. C.
"^
2347. The flood ceaseth ; Noah and his family come out ot
the ark.
234G. (12) Arphaxad born,
2311. (13) SALAHborn.
2281. (14) Eber born.
2247. (15) Peleg born. In hia days the earth was divided.
The Cidnese monarchy supposed to have commenced.
2231. Nimrod begins to exalt himself by laying the first foun-
dation of the Assyrian monarchy. Celestial observa-
tions begin at Babylon.
2233, Tower of Babel built; confusion of languages.
2217. (16) Reu born. .'?5/;er builds Nineveh.
2135. (17) Seuug born. The kingdom of Egypt founded by
Mencs, Mesraim, or Metzer.
2155. (18) Naiïor born. The reign of the first £as«m com-
menced about this time.
2!2G. (19) Terah, Abraham's father, born. »SsmjVams, queen
of Ninus.
1998. Noah dielh, aged 950 years, 350 j'-ears after the flood,
1996. (20) Abraham born ; he was 75 years of age when his
father Terah died,
1925, Chedorlaomer subdues the kings of Sodom, Gomorrah,
Admah, Zeboim, and Bela, who served him 12 years,
1922. Terah with his family Icaveth Urof the Chaldeans, and
dwells at Haran. About this time Hermes, an Egypt-
ian priest and philosopher, invented hieroglyphics,
surveying, geography, and astronomy.
The third age of the world.
1921. The covenant of God made with Abraham, when he
leaves Haran to go into Canaan, which begins 430
years' sojourning.
1920. Famine in Canaan; Abraham and family go to Egypt.
1911, Sarai, being barren, gives Hagar, her maid, to Abraham,
1897, Sodom, Gomorrah, and cities of the vale of Siddim de-
stroyed.
1896. (21) Isaac born in the hundredth year of Abraham's age.
1 856. The kingdom of Argos, in Greece, begins under Inachus.
Isaac marrieth Rebecca.
1836. Esau and (22) Jacob born.
1822. Memnon^ the Egyptian, invents the letters.
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE. 48w
B. C.
1764. Deluge of Ogygea.
1760. Jacob obtains the blessing.
1755. (23) JuDAH born.
1745. Joseph is born.
1724. Joseph sold into Egypt.
1715. Prometheus first strikes fire from flints.
1711. Joseph's exaltation.
1706. Jacob goes to Egypt.
1689. Jacob blesses Ephraim and Manasseh.
1684. (21) Phares born.
1 668. The Ethiopians, from the banks of Indus, settle in the
vicinity of Egypt.
1635. Joseph dies in Egypt.
1618. (25) EsR^M born.
1577. Here begins the bondage of the children of Israel.
1574. Aaron born.
1571. Moses born.
1560. (26) AraiM born.
1556. Cecrops brings acolony of Saitcs into Africa, and be-
gins Athens in Greece.
1546. Scamandar begins the kingdom of Troy.
1531. Moses slays an Egyptian ; flees into Midian.
1530. Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, born.
1493. Cadmus carries the Phenician letters into Greece.
1491. God appears to Moses in Midian. The ten plagues in
Egypt.
The fourth age of the tvorld,
1491. Israelites pass the Red Sea.
1490. (27) Aminadab born.
1485. Danaus sails for Greece from Egypt ; arrives at Rhodes.
1453. The first Olympic games celebrated in Greece.
1452. Moses writes the Pentateuch in the land of Moab.
451. Children of Israel enter Canaan.
1 450. Joshua's victories commence.
1445. (28) Nashon born.
1443. Book of Joshua written.
1410. The city of Corinth rebuilt.
1406. Iron is found in Greece, from the accidental burning of
wood.
1405. Government of the Judges commenced.
1405. (29) Salmon born.
1366. (30) BoAZ bom.
282
486 CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE.
B G
1343. Olhniel dies.
1326. The Isthmian games Instituted.
1312. (30 Obed born.
1273. Ti/re rebuilt.
1252. The Israelites, sinning agïfin, are delivered into the hands
of the Midianites.
1 198. The rape of Helen by Paris, which gave rise to the
Trojan war.
1184. (32) Jesse born.
1155. Samson is born
1117. Samson is betrayed by Delilah.
1085. (33) David born,
1074. Saul anointed king.
1069. Samuel compiles the books of Judges and Ruth.
1063. David kills Goliath.
1035. (34) Solomon born.
Theßfth age of the world.
1004. The temple is solemnly dedicated by Solomon.
979. (35) Rehoboam born.
.976. Shishak plunders the temple and palace.
954. (36) Abijah burn.
925. (37) Asa born.
896. (33) JosAPHAT born. Elijah the prophet translated.
894. Money first made of gold and silver at Argos.
882. (39) JoRAM born.
809. The city of Carthage, in Africa, founded by queen Dido.
'
844. (40) UzziAH born.'
814. The kingdom of Macf.dx>n begins.
779. (41) JoTHAM born.
762. (42) Ahaz born.
753. llome was began.
742. Rezin, king of Syria, and Pekah, of Israel, are confede-
rated against Judah.
723. (43) Hezekiah born.
720. Samaria taken. The first eclipse of the moon on record.
697. (44) Manasseh born.
658, Byzantiuiu (now Constantinople) built by Athenians.
647. (45) Amon born.
636. The Tartars are first mentioned in history.
609. (46) JosfAH born.
600. Thales of Miletus travels into Egypt.
597. Jehoiakim, king of Judah, is carried away captive by
Nebuchadnezzar to Babylon.
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE. 487
588. (47) Jeconiah bom.
587. The city of Jerusalem taken, after a siege of eighteen
months.
The sixth age of the world.
B.c.
559. Cyrus the first king of Persia.
551. (48) Salathikl born.
538. The kingdom of Babylon finished.
526. Learning much encouraged at Athens.
518. (49) ZoROBABEiL, bom,
515. The second temple is finished under Darius.
509. Tarqiiin, the seventh and last king of the Romans.
501. Sardis taken and burnt by the Athenians.
I8t>. .^Jschylus, the G roek poet, first gains the prize of tragedy.
481. Aera-cf, king of Persia, begins his expedition against
Greece.
468. (50) Abiad born.
458. Ezra sent from Babylon to Jerusalem with captive Jews.
430. The history of the Old Testament finished about this
time. Malaclii.
40.'). f51) Eliakim burn.
400. Socrates pat to death by the Athenians for believing
the immortality of the soul.
387. Xenophon born.
350. (52) Azon born.
331. Alexander the Great conquers Darius, king of Persia.
300. (53) Zadoc born.
284. Ftolemy Fkiludclphus, king of Egypt, employs seventj'-
two interpreters to translate the Old Testament into
Greek, which is called the Septuagint.
281. (54) Achim born.
269. The first coining of silver at Home,
261. (55) Eliud born.
260. The Romans first concern themselves with naval affairs.
237. Hannibal, at nine years of age, swears eternal enmity Iq
the Romans.
332. (56) Er.EAZAR born.
218. Hannibal passes the Alps.
190. The first Iloman army enters Asia.
173. (57) INLvTTHAN born.
168. Perseus defeated by the Romans, which ends the Mace-
donian kingdom.
163. The government of Judea under the Maccabees begins,
and continues 126 years.
135. The history of the Apocrypha ends.
488 CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE.
BC.
114. (58) Jacob born.
107. Judas, called Aristobulus, succeeds his father in the
government and priesthood.
63. Jerusalem taken by Pompey ; makes the Jews tributary
to the Romans.
55. (59) JosKPH, the husband of Mary, born.
52. Julius Csesar makes his first expedition into Britain.
49. Here begins the empire of the Roman Caesars; Julius
was declared perpetual dictator.
49. The Alexafidrian library burnt, consisting of 400,000
volumes.
45. The war of Africa, in which Cato kills himself.
45. The solar year introduced by Cassar.
40. Herod, an Idumean, declared king of Judea by the Ro-
mans.
38. Herod takes Jerusalem.
31. HiLLEL born at Jerusalem.
38. Caesar Octavianus, nephew to Julius Caesar, with Ae
assent of the senate and the people of Rome, assumes
the title of emperor.
27. Obtains the title of Augustus Csesar, and an absolute
exemption from the laws, and is properly the first
Roman emperor.
18. Herod enlarges, or rather rebuilds the temple at Jerusa-
lem, 46 years before the first passover of the minis-
try of Christ,
Seventh age of the world.
A. D.
1. Jesus Christ, born in Bethlehem of Judea ; is sup-
posed to have been born in September, or on Monday,
December 25th.
2. The infant Saviour returns fïom Egypt.
12. Disputes with the doctors in the temple.
28. John the Baptist commences his ministry.
81. Christ is baptized ; calls the twelve.
32. John the Baptist beheaded.
33. Christ crucified on Friday, April 3d, at five o'clock
P. M. His resurrection on Sunday, April 5th ; bis
ascension, Thursday, May 14th.
36. St. Paul converted. ^
39. Matthew writes his gospel.
39. Pontius Pilate kills himself.
40. The name of Christians first given at Antioch to the
followers of Christ.
40. Claudius Csesar's expedition into Britain«
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE. 489
A.M.
44. St. Mark writes his orospcL
49. Lorrdon is founded by tlie KomTins.
52. The Synod of- the Apostles at Jerusalem.
55. St. Luke writes his gospel.
59. Nero puts his mother and brothers to death.
62. St. Paul is sent in bonds to Rome,
63. Acts of the Apostles written.
G3. About this time Christianity is introduced into Britain
by St. Paul, or his disciples.
CI. Ronie set on fire and burnt for six days.
07. St. Peter and St. Paul put to death.
70. Jerusalem razed to the ground by Titus.
83. The philosophers expelled from Rome by Domitian.
56. St. John writes his Revelation.
97. Writes his gospel.
lOS. The third persecution against the Christians begins in
the reign of Trajan.
109. Simon Cleophas crucified.
Note.—In preparing this imperfect chronological table, the
compiler consulted several other tables, and has attempted
to be as accurate as possible ; however, a perfect accuracy
in dates is not claimed, for the most laborious investiga-
tions on this subject have ever been attended with difficul-
ües.
INDEX.
Page
Adam, first interview with the Wandering Soul 7
Attributes of God ------ 26
Attentions paid Adam by his deseendants - - 36
Abraham and Shem ----- 47
Age of Noah, when married - . - - - 54
Ark commanded to be built - - - - 64
, its arrangement, &c. - - - - 72
Awful situation of the unrighteous - - - 78
Ararat, mountains of ----- 83
Abandonment of the ark - - - - 85
Assyrian monarchy established by Nimrod - 96
Age of Noah's sons, &c. . . - . 102
Abraham's covenant Avith the Lord - - - 110
Amenophis, ruler in Egypt - - - . 156
Authorship of the book of Job - - - I6I
Acengeres succeeds Orus in Egypt - - - 162
Age of Moses, &c. 175
Adonizedech, execution of, &;c. ... 175
Apostacy of the children of Israel - - - 177
Ascension of Elijah into heaven ... 190
Arabs and Philistines pillage Jerusalem - - 196
Athalia, horrible death of, &c. - - - 197
Assyrians invade Judea ----- 204
Awful destruction of Jerusalem - , . 219
Assyrian empire ended with Belshazzar - - 232
Artaxerxes reigns in Persia - - . . 238
Army of Semiramis, its numbers - . . 241
Alexander demolishes Tyre - - - - 243
Alexandria in Egypt built - - . _ 245
Antiochus Epiphanes desolates Jerusalem - 250
Anniversary of Nicanor's day ... 257
Alliance of Judas with the Romans - - 258
Angels appear to the shepherds - - -
^
275
Alexander and Aristobulus, sons of Herod, exe-
cuted by order of their cruel father - - 278
491
492 INDEX.
Page
Archelaus appointed king of Judea - - . 287
deposed by CasSar ... 294
Ananias and Sapphira struck dead for lying - 377
Albinus, governor of Judea - - - - 411
Ananias, the high-priest, slain - - - 419
Ananus assassinated by the zealots . . - 427
Birth of Seth - - - - - - 20
of Noah 48
of Shem, Ham, and Japbeth - - - 58
Burnt-offering of Noah, &c. . - - - 87
Babel commenced . . . . _ 94
abandoned by the workmen - - - 95
Benjamin goes into Egypt with his brethren - 148
Borrowing, signification of the word - - 165
Bread from heaven - - - - - 169
Bacchus, festival of - . . . _ 174
Baal, worship of, introduced - - - - 189
Book of the law found by Josiah - . - 209
Burning of the temple .... - 220
Belshazzar's dissipation, &c. . - - - 230
Babylon captured by Cyrus . - . - 232
Blood shed to establish Herod's throne - - 269
Baptism of the Ethiopian eunuch - . - 384
Change Avrought by sin - - - - - 16
Cain and Abel 17
Cain's generation, their occupations, &c. - - 22
Cainan, son of Enos, born . - - - - 26
Cain murdered by Lamech - - - 28
Charity outweighs many other qualities - - 40
Covenant of Noah with the JiOrd - - - 89
Condition of the earth after the deluge - - 91
Consultation of Joseph's brethren ... 127
Canaan visited by famine . . - _ 144
Children of Israel go to Egypt for food - - 145
Cup found in Benjamin's sack - - 150
Cecrops, founder of Athens - - - - 163
Children of Israel obtain permission to leave Egypt 164
Commandments given to Moses - - - 17a
INDEX. 493
Page
Crossing over Jordan by Israel ... 176
Canaan divided among the tribes of Israel - 176
Confusion among the Israelites ... 192
Children of the house of Judah all slain - - 197
Capture of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar - 213
Conflagration of Jerusalem . . - . 220
Cyrus saved" from destruction .... 231
Colossus of Rhodes, account of ... 242
Circumcision restored among the Jews - - 254
Carthage burnt by Scipio Africanus - - - 259
Cruelties of Alexander .... - 263
Crassus pillages the temple - - - - 266
Court of Herod, its character - . - . 273
Christ's coming foretold by several of the heathen
writers ------. 275
Csesar Augustus taxes the world ... 277
Characters of Mary and Joseph ... 288
Christ and the money-changers ... 300
performs many miracles - - . 303
appoints his twelve disciples - - 308
feeds the multitude - - - - 311
selects his seventy disciples - - 317
last supper of - - - . . 333
Christians persecuted by Saul ... 380
Conversion of Saul of Tarsus - • - . 38g
Crucifixion of eighteen Jews by Cumanus - 407
Cestius Gallus invades Judea ... 421
retreats to Caesarea after being defeated - 422
Degeneracy of the human heart - - - - 16
Dispersion of the descendants of Adam - - 37
Depravity of the world before the flood - - 60
Displeasure of God manifested - - - - 63
Description of the ark - .... 54
Deluge, its commencement .... 77
Drying up of the waters ----. 84
Departure from the ark - .... 85
Dispersion of the various animals - - - 86
Death of Abel .......19
ofSemiramis - - - - - •
98
2T
494 INDEX.
PagB
Death of Moses 175
of the prophet Elisha - . - - 191
of king Hezekiah ----- 206
of the prophet Daniel - - - - 231
of Cyrus, king of Persia - - - - 235
ofAnliochus ------ 256
of Herod and his son Antipater - - 285
of Augustus, the Roman emperor - - 295
of Christ foretold by the prophets - - 351
of Caius Caligula ----- 406
of Nero 432
of Domitian ------ 465
Dream of Jacob - - - - - -119
of Joseph ------ 126
of Pharaoh - - - - - - 141
Distress, very great in Egypt - - - - 153
Deluge in Thessaly - - - - - -162
Departure of Israel from Egypt - - - - 165
Destruction of Pharaoh and his host - - - i66
Dagon, the heathen idol ----- 180
David anointed king of Israel - - - - 182
his death and burial - _ - _ 185
Dissensions among the tribes of Israel - - 188
Destruction of the Assyrians before Jerusalem - 205
Daniel cast into the lion's den - - - - 229
Destruction of the second temple at Jerusalem - 236
Democritas, father of experimental philosophy - 237
Dissensions among the Jews - - - - 274
Descension of the Holy Ghost - . - - 370
Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah - - - 403
Domitian's cruelty to Christians, &c. - - - 462
memory blotted from all records - 465
Enoch born, and city built - - - - - 20
Estimation of Enoch, son of Jared - - - 35
Enoch's translation into heaven - - - - 44
Eternity of the spirit ----- 46
Explanation of the rainbow - . - - 90
Esau sells his birthright -•,-"' ^^^
Esau, wicked associates of - ' - -. 120
INDEX. 495
Page
Esau meets Jacob returning to Canaan - - 123
Egyptian merchants purchase Joseph - - - 131
Egyptians solicit assistance of Joseph - - - 155
Egypt visited with plagues - - - - 164
Elijah sent to warn Israel ----- 189
Elisha performs many wonders - - - - 191
Enlightened men of Greece - - - - 208
Ebed-mclech saves the life of Jeremiah - - 210
Esther marries Artaxerxes ----- 238
Emaus, the towuof, burned ... - 288
Excesses of banditti, &c, 408
Eleazar refuses to sacrifice, &c. - - - - 418
Ezekias slain by Mamamus - - . - 419
Fashion leads the mind astray - - - - 54
Flood, its abatement ------ 82
Flesh not eaten before the deluge - - - 88
Famine in Egypt .----- 144
Freedom demanded for the children of Israel - 163
Feast of the passover ----- 165
First king of Israel ------ 181
Fire falls from heaven .... - 190
Famine, and great distress in Jerusalem - - 217
Furnace prepared by Nebuchadnezzar - - 228
Frustration of Herod's designs - - - - 270
Famine at Jerusalem ------ 441
Fort Antonia captured ----- 445
God, his name preached, Sic. - - - - 25
forsakes the. proud, &c. - - - - 34
determines to destroy the world - - - 62
tJiants, how originated, &c. - - . - 55
Genesis, when and by whom written - - - 161
Golden image worshipped - - ^ . 172
Giants in Hebron exterminated - - - - 179
Golden calves of Jeroboam - . - . 188
Government changed at Jerusalem - - - 237
Greece, in its days of prosperity - , . - 240
Greece, conquest by Alexander - - - - 244
Grecian monarchj raised ----- 462
496 INDEX.
Page
Gädara, its capture, massacre, &c. - - - 424
Gerizim taken by the Romans - - - - 429
Human nature degenerates ----- 103
Hardships of the children of Israel - - - 156
Hebrew chiklren ordered to be destroyed - - 158
Heathen deilie«, some account of - - - 177
Homer enlightens Greece by his poems - - 202
Hezekiah reigns prosperously - - - - 203
Heraclitus, the weeping philosopher - - - 237
Haman executed, and the Jews saved - - - 239
Hircanus, John, death of 261
Herod and his brother tetrarchs - - - - 267
flees to Rome, and is made king of Judea - 268
his illness, cruel decree, &c. - - - 282
rebuilds the temple, &c. - . - - 284
Herod Antipater defeated by Aretas - - - 320
Hostilities against the Jews - - - - 415
Irad, son of Mahaleel, born - - - - 26
Isaac, birth of - -112
Interview of Jacob and Esau . - - - 123
Interpretation of Pharaoh's dream - - - 142
Interview of Joseph with his brethren - - - 146
Israel visits Egypt 152
Isis, an Egyptian deity 142
Idolatry of the ancients ----- 178
Israel, destruction of the kingdom - - - 193
Isaiah prophesies g'lod tidings, &c. - - - 203
sawed asunder by Manasseh - - - 207
Idolatrous worship forced on the Jews - - 252
Jared, son of Enoch, account of - - - 31
Jupiter Belus succeeds Nimrod in Assyria - 97
Jerusalem, its condition, &c. - - - - 105
Jacob and Esau born 116
receives the blessing of Isaac - - - 117
goeth to his uncle Laban - - - 118
agrees to serve Laban - - - - 121
returns to Canaan - - - - 124
INDEX. 497
Page
Joseph, hated of his brethren - - - - 125
cast into the pit - - - - - 128
sold, and taken to Egypt . - - 134
Jacob nioiirneth greatly for . - - 133
resisteth Potiphar's wife - - . 137
.
is imprisoned by Potiphar . - - 138
interprets dreams in prison ... 140
discovers himself to his brethren - - 150
Joshua succeeds Moses ----- 175
Jericho, description of - - - - - 176
Jerusalem burned ------ 179
Jebusites subdued by David - . - - 183
Jehoshaphat governs in Jerusalem - - - 196
Jehorani, his wickedness, &.c. . - - 196
Josiah restores the true worship - - - 209
Jeremiah imprisoned as a false prophet - - 216
stoned to death - - - - 223
Jerusalem stormed at midnight - - - - 218
entirely destroyed by fire - . - 220
. laid waste by Apollonius - . - 251
begins to flourish again - - _ 259
. stormed by Herod - - - - 268
besieged by Vespasian - - - 429
contending factions in - t - 433
Jews emancipated by Cyrus - . . - 232
in Persia doomed to death - - ^ 238
encouraged to tight on the Sabbath r - 254
reduced to slavery, &;c. - , ^ - 457
Johanan kills Joshua in the temple - - - 243
Jesus, the son of Sirach - - - - 248
Judas Maccabeus appointed captain-general - 254
great triumph over his enemies 255
slain in battle . . - 258
John Hircanus, successor of - - - - 260
Julius C-Esar, his success, &c. . - - - 266
Jesus, birth made known - - - _ 274
disputes in the temple . - . - 291
baptized by John - - - - - 298
restores Lazarus to life - - *- - 323
.
triumphal entry into Jerusalem - - 32R
2T2
498 INDEX.
Pag«
Jesus predicts the destruclion of Jerusalem - 332
taken prisoner by the priests - - - 336
brought before Pilate - - - - 341
-
scourged and maltreated - - - - 346
condemned to death . - » . 348
crucified .--.-- 350
taken down from the cross ... 354
-
rises from the dead - - - - 357
appears to Mary ----- 358
•»
manifests himself to two disciples - - 361
and his disciples assembled - - - 363
shows himself to 500 brethren - - 364
— ascends to heaven ----- 368
Joseph, Mary, and Jesus go into Egypt - - 282
•
removes to Nazareth, in Galilee - - 287
John the Baptist, his ministry - - - - 296
John beheaded by order of Herod - - - 313
Judas Iscariot agrees to betray Jesus - - 328
hangs himself ----- 353
James the Great suffers martyrdom - - - 392
James the Less thrown from the pinnacle of the
temple ------- 396
John, the apostle, returns from Patmos - - 465
Jonathan, tlie high-priest, death of - - - 408
Joppa stormed by the Romans - _ - 425
Josephus taken prisoner - - - - - 425
John of Gischala attempts to usurp, &c. - - 429
Jericho taken by the Romans - - - - 429
Josephus sent to the Jews, &e. - . - 439
Kingdom of Judah annihilated - - _ 221
- of Persia, what befell it - - - 241
^—.—
I
destroyed by Alexander - 246
Love of charity more precious than knowledge - 40
Lamech, Noah's father, dies - - - - 69
tianguage confounded ----- 95
Leah, her marriage -.---- 123
Lamentation for Josiah's death - - - - 211
(laad of Judah laid waste - - - - 223
INDEX. 499
Page
Library at Alexandria 247
Lucius Mumius burns Corinth - - - . 259
Love-feasts institutetl - - - - . 375
Lot visited liy ang-els - - - - . 402
Lot's wife transfurmed - - - . . 404
Man's original state ----- 9
nature changed ----- 13
Murder, first - - - - - - - 18
Marriage institution, first violated by Lamech - 22
Murders, many, consequent on one - - - 28
Methuselah - - - -- - -32
, further account of - - - - 61
, death of, &c. .... 71
Murder to be punished with death - - - 89
Migration of Noah's children - - - - 93
Melchisedech and liis city - - . . lOO
Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca - - - 115
of Jacob and Rachel - - - . 122
Meeting of Israel and Joseph at Goshen - - 152
Moses found by Thermutis .... 159
forsakes the court of Pharaoh ... I6O
performs wonders - - - - 163
Manna in the wilderness .... i7('
Murmuring of the children of Israel - - - 171
Moloch set up by Ahaz . .^ . - . 2OI
Media invaded by Cyrus and Darius - - . 232
Malachi, tlie last prophet 237
Mordecai refuses homage to Ilaman - . . 238
Mausoleum erected by Artemisia • - - 241
Massacre at Jerusalem by ApoUonius - - 251
Mattathias, his residence, &c. .... 253
Mount Acre, Hebron, &c. captured ... 256
Mary anoints Jesus 327
Miraculous eclipse --.... 350
Matthias chosen by the apostles .... 369
Miracles performed by Christ's disciples - - 379
Miserable death of Herod Agrippa - - - 393
Miraculous escape of Peter from prison - - 393
Masada, garrison of, destroy themselves - - 458
500 INDEX.
Page
Nature changed after the fall of man - - - 11
Noah, first interview with the Wandering Soul - 42
builds the ark ----- 66
Nitnrod, his tyranny, &c. ----- 94
Ninus, founder of Nineveh - _ . . 98
introduces idols ----- 99
Necho, king of Egypt, slays Josiah - - - 210
Nebuchadnezzar conquers Necho - . - 212
Nineveh, in Abyssinia, destroyed - - - 220
Nehemiah of much service to the Jews - - 236
Nicanor beheaded -_---* 257
Numatium, a city of Spain, destroyed - - 259
Numidia conquered by the Romans - _ - 266
Nero fires the city of Rome - - . - 461
murders his mother and his tutor Seneca - 461
Nerva, happy but short reign of , - . 465
Order in which the animals entered the ark - 74
Origin of the various nations - - - - 95
Oppression of Israel in Egypt - - - - 156
Orus succeeds A menophis in Egypt - - r 160
Olympiad temple, games, &c. - - - , 242
Overthrow of Darius . - _ _ . 244
Organization of Jewish forces - - , . 422
Origin of a certain proverb - - - 471
Preface, translator's - .... 3
Paradise, Adam's account of - - - - 8
Punishment for breaking God's laws - - - 12
Prevarication availeth not with the Lord - - 12
Preaching, first public ----- 23
Paradise, a spiritual and visible - - - - 38
Preaching proper in all places - - - - 59
Preparations for entering the ark - - - 72
Potiphar's partiality to Joseph - - - - 134
Prediction concerning Moses - - - ^ 159
Pharaoh Cenchres reigns in Egypt - - - 162
Plagues of Egypt - - - - - ^164
Pursuit of the children of Israel . *. • 165
Punishments in the wilderness . « - 173
INDEX. 501
Page
Promise to Abraham fulfilled - . - _ 176
Philistines cany off the ark, &c. - - - 180
Plunder of Jerusalem by Amaziah - - - 198
Persecution of tlie pious in Jerusalem - 208
Pestilence, very sore in Jerusalem . . - 217
Persian monarchy established by Cyrus - - 232
Preparations for rebuilding Jerusalem - - 234
Pythagorus, Anacreon, &c. . . - . 237
Plato, Diogenes, Aristotle, &;c. ... 240
Persia invaded by Alexander ... - 244
Priests of Jerusalem meet Alexander - - 245
Ptolemy Lugus storms Jerusalem on the Sabbath 247
Ptolemy Philadelphus grants liberty to the Jews 247
Philopater, his cruelty, repentance, &^c. - - 249
Pompey attacks Jerusalem . - . • 265
Pontius Pilate appointed governor of Judea - 295
Person of Jesus, description of the ... 314
Public edict for the apprehension of Jesus - - 324
Peter denies Clirist - .... - 339
Pilate banished to France by Caius - - - 353
commits suicide ..... 353
Philip performs many miracles . - - - 382
Persecutions of the Christians . - - - 461
Plinius's character of the Christians - - - 468
Polycarpus, manner of his death ... 475
Quails brought into the wilderness - - - 173
Quadratus, his apology, &c. - - - - 475
Resistance of sin, power of - - - - 30
Rainbow, a token of God's promise - - - 89
its various hues, &;c. ... 90
Rebuilding the world commenced - - - 92
Rebecca solicited for Isaac - - - - 114
Rachel and Jacob, first interview of - - - 120
Revelation of God to Moses - - - - 163
Red Sea, passage of tlie .... - 166
Revenue of King Solomon . - - - 187
Rome founded by Romulus and Remus - - 193
Rehoboam and his successors - - - - 195
502 INDEX.'
Pag«
Revolting worship of Moloch - - - - 201
Remnant of Assyrians return home - - - 206
Reflection of the Judeans in bondage - - - 227
Return of the Jews to Jerusalem . - - 233
Rome repaired by Junius and Lucius - - - 236
Rulers of Judah, &c. - _ . . . 253
Romans, their warlike power, &c. - - - 257
Roman soldiers desolate Jerusalem ... 269
Remarkable event, the dumb speak ... 272
Remarkable signs at Rome on the birth of Christ 280
Roman council resolve to deify Christ - - 367
Rencontre of the Jews and Romans on Easter-day 406
Reproof of the worldliness of Christians - - 473
Serpent, first cursed - - - - - - 12
Submission to God necessary - - - - 15
Soul, changed by the fall of man - - - 15
Sinfulness of Cain's descendants - - - 24
Seth's posterity to subdue the serpent - - 38
Spiritual and earthly paradise, how to enjoy - 39
Soul, its eternal existence - - - - 45
Shem teaches Abraham ----- 47
Sheddingr of man's blood to be avenged - - 89
Semiramis, her cruelty, &c. _ - - - 98
Salem, wonders prophesied of - - - - 101
Simon Cleophas, interview with . - - 105
Salem, destruction of - - - - -111
Seven years of plenty ----- 143
Soraphis, an Egyptian deity - - . . 154
Succession of kings in Egypt - - - - 168
Sun and moon stand still ----- 176
Samuel, the prophet, rules in Israel - - - 181
Solomon succeeds David - _ . . 185
Second interview with Simon Cleophas - - 225
Socrates, Hippocrates, Aristophanes, &c. - - 240
Subjugation of Egypt, Media, &c. - - . 245
Samaria destroyed by Hircanus _ - . 261
Sects among the Jews, various - - - 261
Sylla, his cruelty, &c. 263
Sanctum sanctorum entered by Pompey - - 265
INDEX. . 503
Page
Shepherds visit Jf^sus and Mary at Bethlehem - 276
Steplien stoned to death ----- 388
St. Paul beheaded l)y order of Nero - - - 482
Seven miraculous signs - - - - - 412
Simon Gorias, with 40,000 banditti, enters Jeru-
salem 419
Sephoria surrendered to the Romans - - - 424
Simon Gorias and John of Gischala taken prisoners 453
Siege of Masada - - - T - - 458
Secret meetings of Christians ... - 470
Simon Cleophas crucified . - - 479
Temptatioir and fall -. - - - - 10
Tree of life barred from Adam - - - - 14
Tubal Cain, character of - - - - 23
Transformation of the earth _ . - - 92
Tower of Babel projected •
- - - - 93
abandoned . - - - 95
Temptation of Joseph ----- 136
Trismegistus, some account of - - - - 162
Troy built by Dardamus - - -^- -168
Temple of Solomon ----- 186
Ten tribes of Israel, captivity of - - - 192
" The works and the days," by Hesiod - - 202
Temple repaired by Josiah - - - - 209
plundered by Nebuchadnezzar - - 214
rebuilding commenced - - - - 234
completed under Darius . - - 236
fired by the Jews - - - - 440
Toping professors of religion - - - - 231
Themistocles banished from Athens - - - 238
. Temple of Diana at Ephésus - - - - 242
Tyre taken by Alexander - - - - 243
Translation of the book of law - - - - 247
Tyranny of Alexander Jamne - - - . 262
Tiberius succeeds Augustus at Rome - - - 295
Transfiguration of Christ ... - 315
Terrible earthquake ----- 352
Travels and persecution of St. Paul - - - 387
Trajan persecutes the Christians - - . 400
504 INDEX.
Page
Tiberias Tarichea, &;c. subdued by the Eoraans - 423
Titus besieges Jerusalem .... 435
storms two of the walls ... - 438
Trajan succeeds Nerva at Rome - - - 465
Third persecution of Christians under Trajan - 466
Unnatural appearances of the earth explained - 91
Uzziah repairs Jerusalem, &c. - - - - 199
Urias, persecution and death of - - . - 213
Veil of the temple rent ----- 362
Vespasian is appointed emperor, &c. - 432
Vitellus, Galba, and Otto, reign of - - - 478
Woman, her influence, «fee. - - - - 10
commanded to obey man >• * - 13
World, its destruction determined - - - 62
Wonders performed before Pharaoh - - 163
Water obtained from the rock - - . - 169
Wisdom of Solomon . _ - - . 185
Worship of idols, &c. abolished - - - - 210
Walls of Jerusalem rebuilt - - - - 236
Wise men from Persia visit Christ - . - 279
Water changed to wine by Jesus ... 299
Wars in Judea commenced under Caligula - - 478
Xerxes -.-•>.--. ».97
destroys the city of Nineveh - - - 220
succeeds in the kingdom of Ezra - - 236
army lost invading Greece - * - 241
Zoroaster conquered by Semiramis . - - 141
Zedekiah, the last king of Judah - - . 215
THE END.
